CHAPTER I.

ABOUT THE HERO AND A WAIF.

But the poor dog, in life the firmest friend,
The first to welcome, foremost to defend,
"Whose honest heart is still his master's own.
Who labours, fights, lives, breathes for him alone
Unhonoured falls, unnoticed all his worth,
Denied in heaven the soul he held on earth ! '

Byron.

The sky was grey and cloudy, with here
and there a patch of chequered blue ; and
the Mediterranean lapped lazily upon its
level shore in a sort of sullen calm. The
afternoon of the April day was drawing to
a close in better mood than had been promised
by a showery morning ; and, for a

VOL. I. B

pedestrian in southern Italy, was of quite
the right sort  cool, sunless, and picturesque.
Such a personage now lay, stretching his
long limbs at ease upon the shingle, carelessly
digging little holes in the somewhat
dirty sand around him  his straw hat flung
off, and his short fair hair bared to the
pleasant breeze, his blue eyes resting in a
half-absent satisfaction upon the lovely
scene before him.

An Englishman this tourist, every inch
of him, as might plainly be seen, as much
from his close-cropped head, clean-shaven
chin, and yellow moustache, as from the
national cut of the light tweed suit fitting
loosely to the broad athletic figure.

Sunset was beginning to creep over sky
and sea. The patches of blue spread and
deepened, the leaden interstices flushed into
a soft pink, and the transformation scene
commenced. Vivid bars of crimson and
purple spread long arms across the golden

heavens, whilst Ischia and Provide gradually
mapped out their indented outlines
against a glorified background, and all
the bays and promontories of the matchless
Gulf of Naples slowly unveiled themselves
from the day's jealous mist, and brought
themselves to within a stone's throw of the
observer, painted in every shade of pink
and blue and mauve.

Barrington De Witt was not sentimental,
neither was he an artist, but he was a keen
appreciate of Nature in her picturesque
moods, and his gaze remained riveted upon
the scene.

What a pity John Pon is not here,' he
muttered to himself ; ' it's too good to have
all to oneself.'

When at length the colours began to
fade, he still lay on, partly to enjoy that
curious dying-out of sky and sea life, and
partly because a good rest was pleasant after
the long walk to Bliss and its environs.

B 2

But on removing his gaze lie became aware
that he was not alone. It was only a dog
after all; but De Witt was fond of dogs,
and instead of threatening him with stick or
stones, glanced amiably towards the poor
beast as he came forward timidly, yet with
purpose in his eyes, and sat himself down
but a couple of yards distant, with faintly
wagging tail and a beseeching face. He
was a thin and lanky creature, of a kind
seldom seen in that part of the world, more
of a coney than anything else  evidently
a young dog, and one that might possibly,
when filled out with food, and washed clean
from mud and dirt, attain to good looks.
That he was highly intelligent could be
seen at once from the expression of his
clear brown eyes. De Witt whistled slightly
and held out a friendly hand, and in an
instant the gaunt creature came forward
and licked his fingers.

Reader, if you have ever lived in southern

Italy, you will recognize this as a somewhat
extraordinary fact, and understand
the attentive scrutiny with which De Witt
favoured his new acquaintance. The intelligence
and affections of the canine race
are not, as a rule, cultivated in those
neighbourhoods ; and to meet with a dog
either wise or caressing, especially an apparently
stray and homeless dog, is an
incident as rare as astonishing.

Where do you come from ? ' asked the
man ; and the dog looked earnestly and
lovingly into his face. ' And what do you
want ? ' continued Homo. Canis waged
his tail and repeated the lick.

Rubbish ! ' remarked Homo, ' don't tell
me. It isn't love you want ; it's victuals.'

Canis crept a little closer, and wagged
his tail a little harder.

'I do believe,' observed Homo, That
you understand English. I shouldn't wonder
if you were an English dog.' And Canis

continued the wagging silently, perhaps
affirmatively. But there was no doubt as
to his sentiments when his companion took
a packet of biscuits from his coat-pocket.
There said Homo, 'eat those up, and
then decamp.'

The biscuits were devoured hungrily,
silently, gratefully ; but there was no decamping.
Canis remained silently watching
his new friend, stretched out beside him
as near as he was permitted to come.
When at length De Witt rose, shaking the
sand from his clothes and preparing to
start homewards, he rose too and followed
step by step with a determined air.

Now, look here, old fellow,' said Barrington
after a few yards, turning to survey his
companion, 'my pockets are empty, there
isn't another crumb in my possession. I
can't adopt you, neither do I intend to treat
you to tahle-dliote at the hotel to-night.
So suppose you slope it ! '

The stray dog looked him in the face
unflinching. That he understood the
purport of De Witt's words and gestures
was evident ; that he had not the slightest
intention of obeying was quite equally
evident. Even the threat of the stick or
the launching of one or two small stones in
his direction failed to move him. He was
clearly a dog of a resolute will. Barrington
fancied that his eyes filled with a dumb
reproach at these repulses, as he withdrew
himself to a humbler distance, but these
were the barren results of the effort to
repudiate his society ; and as De Witt
turned his back upon the fading glories of
the Mediterranean, and toiled up the long
steep hill of Posilippo, the thin dusty
animal kept its place steadily behind him.

Tahle-dliote was just over by the time
De Witt reached his hotel ; and, not sorry
to miss the long steaming meal, he had a
cosy little dinner to himself in one corner of

the long dining-room, issuing an hour later,
cigar in mouth, to his favourite bench in
the hotel garden  a bench overshadowed by
a great chestnut-tree, and looking out upon
a wide-reaching view. It was placed not
far from the entrance gate ; and there 
silently, sadly, crouching beside the iron
railings, his body without, his nose within,
his whole attitude one of humble supplication
 sat the poor waif of the Posilippo
shore. Every boy who passed pulled his
tail, or otherwise insulted him, but he
seemed regardless of insult and bereft of
fear, as he sat like a dirty canine Peri at
the gate of Paradise, watching for his self-chosen
benefactor. His tail went round
and round as Barrington sauntered forwards,
and his eyes never quitted the
Englishman as he sat down to enjoy his
smoke beneath the trees. De Witt began
to feel quite uncomfortable beneath the
dog's appealing gaze, and turned his back

upon him as he flung one arm across the
rail of the bench, and gazed out upon the
surrounding scene. Both sea and sky were
now calm and blue ; and the Chiaja, lit up
by its wide semicircle of lamps, glittered
like fairyland around the sleeping bay.

There was a step on the gravel beside
him, and he turned his head as the newcomer,
a short and wiry man, sprang up and
perched himself upon the arm of the bench
with crossed legs, like an agile goblin.

Back at last ! ' remarked the Honourable
John Ponsonby, usually called ' John Pon '
by his intimates  a dark, keen-eyed man,
with black hair and moustache, and a
hooked nose. ' Cicero and all the other old
blokes at home to receive you at Baise ? '

Barrington nodded.  It's the pleasantness
day I've had since I came south,' he remarked.
' I wish you'd been able to come
with me, Ponsonby. We had a tarantella
in a ruined temple.'

And all the other sophistries, I suppose.
But I didn't come down merely to amuse
myself, like you, my dear fellow. I'm a
business man ; and I must be off tomorrow
morning by cockcrow.'

To-morrow morning ? What a nuisance
! '

A telegram shortened me up. You'll be
snoring when I depart.'

I say, Ponsonby, what am I to do when
you are gone ? There isn't a decent man to
speak to in the hotel.'

Well, they ain't a very juicy lot here, I
must say. Suppose you try Capri. I had
no end of a jolly three days there before I
met you.'

There's nothing but artists and beggar-maids
at Capri, is there ? '

All the better. The artists are pleasant
fellows, and the beggar-maids so many
houris.'

Anything to climb ? '

Only hills, but one or two stiff ones,
and rocks where you might break your neck
if you tried hard. A primitive, friendly
population, and a tidy little hotel or two.'

*They dance the tarantella all day long
there, I suppose % I've seen it twice, and
that's about enough.'

They make a pause occasionally ; and
some of them sell coral or drive donkeys.'

But I don't wear coral necklaces, and I
don't like riding donkeys.'

'Then you can go out boating and risk
a drowning. It is rarely calm two days
together.'

That sounds better,' remarked Barrington,
thoughtfully. ' I dare say I may go.
It doesn't seem a bad sort of a place for a
few days. I wish you could come with me,
Pom'

I wish I could ; but I can't. And it
wouldn't suit me to be an idle man.'

De Witt removed his cigar from his

mouth, and slowly turned towards his
companion.

'I seem a lazy sort of a fellow to you, I
suppose, Ponsonby ? '

The Honourable John shruooed his
shoulders lightly, thereby nearly but not
quite destroying his balance upon the back
of the bench.

Well, I'd give any sum to be back in
my old profession if I could ! It wasn't my
doing that I ever left it.'

Of course not.'

I'm sick already of hanging about doing
nothing, though it's only a year since my
father died.'

Then, my dear fellow, hadn't you better
look out for some occupation without loss
of time, seeing you may have another forty
or fifty years of it ? '

How can I ? I'm not fit for anything
else.'

You might get something to do if

you didn't want to be paid for it, you
know

I don't think I could fancy any other
kind of work.'

H'm  just so. And can't you return to
the property and look after that ? '

Impossible, so my lawyers tell me. The
estate has got so involved the last few years,
that the only hope is for me to live away
from it for a time.'

'That's a bore.'

Yes ; not that I'm particularly keen
upon country life ; but the old place has
its attractions. But it's an expensive one
to keep up, and my father's horses ran the
income down to a low ebb.'

Well, you must take to painting in
water-colours : that's what all the idle
men do abroad.'

I never could put two lines together in
my life.'

I'm afraid the French horn is out of date,

14 DRIVEN BEFORE THE STORM.

and you are too old for the violin. There's
only one thing left for you to do, De Witt.
You must fall in love.'

With a Capri coral girl ? '

I fell in love with all the coral girls
there remarked Ponsonby meditatively.
What's that cur doing at the gate-post, I
wonder ? '

Followed me from Posilippo.'

Ponsonby whistled, and with one bound
the dog leapt in, passing his outstretched
hand, however, without notice, and pressing
his nose to De Witt's knee.

Nice dawn, intelligent dawn,' remarked
the Honourable John ; ' he knows Fm too
poor to pay his ticket back to England for
him.'

Then you think he's an English dog ? '
'I do. Well, I must turn in now, De

Witt, and pack my portmanteau. Au revoir
to our next meeting in England. When
do you think of returning homewards ? '

'Haven't a notion. AVhen I'm too
sick of the Continent to stand it any
longer.'

That will be very shortly ? '

Unless I take a trip to California or
somewhere.'

You couldn't do better. I wish there
was time to get to the Rocky Mountains
and back during the vacation.'

De Witt still sat on for some time after
his friend left him. Friend he would
scarcely have called him in England, for a
few chance meetings in society had then
constituted the sum of their mutual acquaintance
; but ten days spent in a foreign
country in the same hotel, chiefly tenanted
at the present moment by uncongenial
foreigners, had evoked a pleasant liking and
a certain amount of intimacy between the
two Englishmen. John Ponsonby was so
sincere and so straightforward of disposition,
as well as so easy and humorous in

conversation, that he was a general favourite
with those who knew him.

Presently the city clocks struck out
eleven, and there was a sound as of the
closing of some of the hotel doors and
windows. A waiter who had been hovering
about under the trees for the last half hour,
enjoying his leisure in the cool night air,
approached De Witt politely.

Scusi, signor,' he asked, in his mingled
jargon of English and Italian (for he was
not the polyglot head-waiter), * but that dog
is he of you ? '

'No,' replied De Witt, half-reluctantly,
as the poor beast crept closer to him, as if
begging for protection.

He is from the street, signor ? '
'De Witt nodded. And the next moment
there was a loud yelp, accompanied by a
violent kick from the suave and smiling
waiter, as the stray dog was sent flying
towards the gate.

I say ! What are you doing, you brute ? '
exclaimed De Witt, jumping up angrily.
Don't kick the dog like that ! '

The waiter stared helplessly, in the act
of administering a second kick.

But what will you, signor ? He is only
a dog. I have to close the gates.'

De Witt paused a moment ; then he
called the waif towards him and patted its
head.

Pat him in a stable somewhere,' he
said, slipping a couple of francs into the
man's hand, ' until tomorrow morning, and
give him something to eat.'

The waiter bowed and smiled with civil
acquiescence. But the incident of ' il Signor
Capitan Angles ' and the lost dog did not
lose in the telling, and served next day asa
prime joke among the hotel servants, to
illustrate the imbecilities of a most eccentric
insular race.

VOL. I. c

CHAPTER 11.

THE ISLAND OF GOATS.

The wind had no more strength than this

That leisurely it blew,
To make one leaf the next to kiss,

That closely by it grew.'  M. Drayton.

The little steamer was slowly ploughing
her way from the port of Naples towards
the island of Capri. On the deck sat
Barrington de Witt, his feet accommodated
by a spare chair, a cigar in his mouth, and
the lost dog beside him. The latter had
gained his point, and was now no longer
lost, but a happy and prosperous animal,
well fed, well washed, and well combed,
supplied with the name of * Waif and with
a lenient master  and in consequence of all
these novel circumstances, acknowledged to

be a proud and handsome dog. Barrington
had his Baedeker spread out before him,
but he was not studying it  his eyes were
fixed, in tranquil enjoyment, alternately upon
the dancing waves, and upon a group of his
fellow-passengers seated just in front of him.
It was a grand relief, after two dull
and soaking days,  when, in the absence
of Ponsonby, the hotel salon and smoking-room
had become more insufferably dull
than ever,  to be out once more under a
clear blue sky and on the laughing lively
sea. The sea indeed was a little too lively
for some of the passengers, who by-and-by
grew pale, and began to retire apart, or even
to disappear down the narrow stairs which
led to the Lilliputian black hole below
dignified by the name of cabin. De Witt's
neighbours, however, were not sea-sick,
although one of their party, a stout,
motherly-looking woman, seemed to be

nervously afraid that she might be going

c 2

to be a bad sailor. But perhaps she was
induced to be thus timid by the perpetual
hustings of her husband, a little elderly man,
whose bulk would not have made the half
of hers, and who seemed unable to be still
for a moment. Although evidently well-to-do
people, Barrington recognized them
at once as unaccustomed travellers. Not
so the two younger members of the party,
who seemed quite at their ease, both as
regarded fear of the vessel's motion, or
of any other incident of travel. It was
small wonder that Barrington found his
gaze returning again and again towards
the group, for two prettier girls it would be
difficult to place side by side : one tiny,
spirituelle, and fair, with that fragile beauty
so characteristic of American belles ; the
other tall, upright, and dark, with  piquant e,
spirited face, and something a little haughty
about the firm curves of the fine mouth.
It was easy to see, from the likeness

between them, that this latter was the
daughter of the large handsome lady, and
equally clear that the little one, who spoke
with a marked transatlantic twang, was no
relation to either. She was very lively and
gay-tempered, this fair American, and her
clear high voice fell distinctly upon De
Witt's ears, whilst the softer, lower tones of
the other girl were comparatively indistinguishable.
Before many minutes were
over' Barrington had possessed himself of
the interesting fact that the name of the tall
girl was Nell, and that of her companion
Blanche ; after which, perhaps feeling that
he had learnt enough for a passing acquaintance,
he closed his eyes and leant back
drowsily, with a faint sybaritic enjoyment
of pleasant sounds as conveyed in the duet
betwixt the plashing wavelets and the fresh
young voices. An hour later he was roused
by a sudden stir on board, and by the cessation
of the steamer's paddles.

I dare not go, Edward, indeed I dare
not,' the stout lady was saying, with trepidation
in her tones ; ' I almost wish you and
the girls would give it up.' Which remark
Alas closely followed by exclamations of
unqualified disgust from the two girls. 

Barrington looked about him, and seeing
overhead a great upright mass of brown
rock, stretching away into more empurpled
hues on either side, he recognized that he
was beneath the lee of the rug:o;ed Island of
Goats. And very goat-like indeed it appeared
from the present point of view of
perpendicular limestone cliff", where even a
goat of moderate accomplishments might
have experienced some embarrassment in
finding a route upwards.

Going to the Blue Grotto, sir ? ' inquired
the civil captain ; and De Witt nodded and
rose, perceiving, as he approached the side
of the vessel, that the little fleet of tiny
skiffs which swarmed around within the

calm belt of water sheltered by overhanging
walls, were already more than half of them
occupied, and on their road to the grotto.

I'm sure it isn't safe ! ' repeated the
lady. ' How high is the entrance ? ' (This
to the captain.)

Between two and three feet, signora,' he
replied a little impatiently. ' Come, you
must say whether you mean to go or not.'

She gave an exclamation of horror and
drew back decisively ; but her husband was
already upon the ladder, closely followed by
the two younger ladies.

We are all right, mamma ! ' laughed the
tall girl. ' But it's quite as well you should
stay behind ; you might upset the boat if
you were frightened.'

Come, Miss Hopkins,' said the gentleman,
offering his hand to the other, 'jump
in.' And her friend was proceeding to
follow her example, when the boatman
interfered with a wave of his hand.

Not more than two passengers in each
boat ; it is not permitted he remarked.
And indeed the three persons already
embarked seemed fully enough for the frail
skiff.

The elderly gentleman seemed terribly
put about by this injunction ; and it was
difficult for De Witt, standing waiting
just behind, to restrain a smile at the
excited remonstrance he poured forth in a
mingled jargon of English and Italian. It
was impossible, he seemed to think, or
improper, for either of his charges to do
without his escort. It was the puzzle of
the fox and the goose crossing the stream
over again. At length a brilliant idea
seemed to strike him.

I will take Miss Hopkins first, and then
return for you, Nell,' he remarked to the
second girl.

Impossible, papa, 1 should miss it,' washer
reply. 'The steamer would not wait.

We are already the last.' And she stepped
quietly into a neighbouring boat.

Nell, come back, I desire ! ' he exclaimed
fussily.

But I am sorry to say the young woman
paid no attention to his remonstrances, and
merely turned her back upon him. Barrington,
slightly raising his hat, followed her ;
but as he seated himself in the boat an
anxious face peered over the steamer's side.

I see you are an Englishman, sir,'
remarked the lady ; ' do you consider there
is any real danger in going to the grotto ? '

None whatever,' he replied, smiling ;  I
do not think you need be nervous about
your daughter, madam.' And the good
lady thanked him with a friendly air ;
fortunately too short-sighted to be conscious
either of the scowls of her little
husband or the indignant flush of her independent
daughter.

To be seated in the stern of a narrow

boat, closely wedged beside a young and
pretty girl, is a sufficiently attractive
position to any man not a violinist ; and
when to this fact is added that of being
a perfect stranger to his fellow-passenger,
certainly gains in piquancy. De Witt's
companion, however, did not appear to be
of a sociable disposition, and kept her head
turned away from him, leaving visible only
the outline of a rosy cheek and a small pink
ear. When, however, they neared the entrance
to the grotto, she gave a sudden
gasp, and turned towards him.  Surely weare
not going through that hole ? ' she
asked. ' Is it possible to get through ? '
The opening in the rock did indeed look
perilously low and narrow, and Barrington
did not wonder at her fears as he observed
the swell advancing and retiring, at times
almost filling up the small space.

It is all right,' he replied.  Every one
else has gone through, you see. But,' he

added, ' we will return if you would rather
not go in ? '

Oil no, no ! ' she said, laughing at herself.
Of course we will go on.'

Then shut your eyes,' he remarked, with
a friendly smile, ' and I will tell you when
you are safe inside.'

Lie down in the boat, signor, signorina,'
commanded the boatman ; ' lie flat ! ' And
with a little irrepressible smile, half of
amusement aud half of embarrassment, the
two obeyed. The next moment there came
an advancing wave, and the boatman seized
his oars. On they swept towards the dark
slit in the wall, in went the oars, down
crouched the pilot, the rocks grated against
the boat's sides, and they were in the
famous grotto.

Now get up, signor, signorina ! ' And,
surrounded by darkness, they complied.

Papa ! ' she called towards the nearest
of the spectral boats with spectral freight

that glided round them, * is that you and
Blanche ? '

Thank goodness we are all safe, yes ! '
was the reply. ' I nearly lost my scalp incoming
in.'

The little American laughed outright.
'You quite pinched the skin off my arm,
I know, Mr. Brereton ! Oh, Nell, turn round
and see the blue at the entrance ! Isn't it
quite too elegant 1 '

But Miss Lino-wood's admiration was of a
less demonstrative nature than that of her
friend, though she laughed softly to herself
at the little Yankee term ; and Barrington,
to whose lips the word had also brought
a smile, felt a moment's sympathetic link
between himself and his companion. This
was strengthened by the pretty look of
gratitude and graceful bend of the head
with which, on emerging once more into
daylight, she acknowledged the trifling act
of courtesy which had spread his overcoat

as a rug to protect her from the not
over-clean bottom of the boat ; and she was
quite gracious and conversational during
their few minutes' return pull, accepting
with another smile the hand he held out
to assist her up the vessel's side.

It was a beautiful face, thought De Witt,
when so illumined  beautiful not merely
with the loveliness of form and colour, but
with the nameless attraction of high spirit
and strongly-defined character. With the
smile faded the best and most winsome part
of its beauty  the dark eyes became too
cold and searching, the lips too still and
proud. He was possibly formulating some
such opinion within his mind when someone
touched him lightly on the arm, and
he became aware that the stout lacey was
once more claiming his attention.

I must thank you for a moment, sir,'
she remarked in a tone half condescending,
half friendly, ' for your kind care of my

laughter. I did not half like her to 2:0
into such a wild sort of place without my
husband's protection ; but with an English
gentleman like yourself in the same boat, I
felt I need not be anxious about her safety.'

The good woman was certainly grateful
for small benefits ; barring the spreading
of the overcoat and the lending of the
hand up and down the vessel's ladder,
Barrington was conscious of nothing particularly
useful or heroic in his behaviour.
But she was probably one of those unaccustomed
travellers to whom every Italian
appears more or less in the light of a
brigand, to whose tender mercies she would
tremble to commit the keeping of herself
or her child ; and since it was her pleasure
to be friendly, he had no objection to any
little interchange of civilities which might
lead to a pleasant acquaintance.

I fear,' he said as he raised his hat,
and involuntarily cast an amused glance

towards the young lady, ' that my care
amounted to nothing, but I am very glad
1 was the means of sparing you anxiety.'

For a moment Miss Lingwood's frank
smile replied to his ; but the next it faded,
and she seemed to retire within herself
again.

'There was nothing to take care of,
mamma,' she remarked calmly. ' I looked
after myself, and this gentleman after himself,
and the boatman looked after us both,
as he was bound to do,' and she moved away.

Had she a temper, thought Barrington,
or was she simply of a sarcastic turn of
mind ? a reflection in which he was interrupted
by the approach of a seedy-looking
little man of cadaverous features, who advanced
humbly and pushed into his hand a
hotel card. He was speedily followed by another,
stout and better dressed, who walked
forward with a semi-military step, but was
swiftly elbowed from his post by a third, so

extremely loquacious in singing the praises
of his house, that De Witt, after briefly
naming his hotel, turned and fled, walking
towards the bows of the vessel and scanning
with interest the long steep island, up
which wound the white pathway which led
to the principal and central village of Capri.

Here he was presently joined by Mr.
Brereton, to whom the unwelcome attentions
had been transferred.

Good heavens ! ' exclaimed the latter
irritably, * those fellows are enough to drive
one mad 1 How did you get rid of them ? '

I named my hotel.'

I haven't a notion which is the best.
Can you inform me ? '

I can't answer for that ; but mine was
the one recommended to me by a friend.'

Oh, then no doubt it is the best,' replied
his companion, catching eagerly at
this straw for relief.

The next moment all was confusion, as

the passengers once more descended into
the little boats ; and, amid the wild gesticulations
and babel of outcries proceeding
from native throats upon the tiny pier, De
Witt overheard his new acquaintance repeating
the name of his own hotel. Thus
he found himself likely to see more of
his quartette of fellow-travellers. He had
time, however, to notice that whilst Mrs.
Brereton turned from him with a good-natured
nod, and her husband was by no
means averse to a little friendly assistance
in his halting Italian, 'their daughter stood
apart, apparently studiously unconscious
of his existence. Nor did he meet the
ladies again that day ; for, after a hurried
luncheon, Waif and his master started fora
tour of general inspection round the
island, which kept them out till after night
had fallen, and the table d'hote diner
was long over. Then, his solitary repast
finished, De Witt lit his cigar and had a

VOL. I. D

quiet smoke, in which occupation he was
presently joined by another guest, sometime
resident in the house  a tall, 
artist, who seemed a
simple-hearted, good sort of fellow enough.

CHAPTER III.

I GUESS you're too SHARP UPON THE MEN 1 '

Gather ye rose-buds while ye may,
Old Time is still a-flying,
And this same flower that smiles to-day,

To-morrow will be dying.'  Root. Herrick.

The following day showed the perfection
of southern spring climate, and Barrington,
who was given to erratic hours, and, when
he did not lie over late, sometimes rose
very early, was up and out of the house
before any of its other occupants had put
in an appearance to breakfast. During the
two or three hours that had elapsed, he and
Waif had made acquaintance with a wide
semicircle of cliff scenery, and were now
half-way up the path leading towards
Lo Capo.

D 2

It seemed to have struck both simultaneously
that the sun was hot, and that a
pause was desirable ; and for the last
quarter of an hour they had been reclining
side by side upon the broken remains of a
ruined fern-covered wall,  blue sea on every
side of them,  Barrington's hat tilted over
his eyes, and his head comfortably pillowed
on the dog's soft coat. He had gradually
fallen into a half-sleepy reverie of many
things and persons  a reverie only sometimes
interrupted by the intrusion beneath
the straw brim of his hat of a long black
nose and a pair of wistful eyes, apparently
apologetically curious to know the subject
of his musings. Somehow De Witt's mind
had gone back to past days. It was all
very jolly here now  there was nothing to
complain of in life just at present, with
this glorious sky overhead, these incomparable
rocks all round, and  ' Get off,
Waif ! don't lick my nose, you brute ! * 

the possibilities of agreeable society to be
had ; but, hang it ! even skies and rocks
and pleasant society grow monotonous to
some men after a time, with nothing in the
future to break a horizon of monotony.
Oh, for the old times, the happy days of
regimental life ! If only he had never left
the service ! How little he thought when,
one glaring day at Aldershot, he received
the doctor's letter, begging him to obtain
leave and come down at once to his father,
stricken by a severe stroke of paralysis,
that he should never return thither as a
member of the camp, never rejoin the
regimental mess, squeeze his big bath into
the tiny hut room, or march among his
comrades over the parched grey dust
that carpets the ground of that dried-up
district.

In truth, De Witt had been somewhat
hardly treated by his father. Never of a
very unselfish disposition, or disposed to

consult over-much the feelings of those
about him, the old man, when struck down
in the hunting-field, laid prostrate, and
debarred from the one occupation to his
mind worth living for, became querulously
determined to keep fast hold of the only-person
who could be found to relieve the
dulness of this unaccustomed confinement.
A fox-hunting, country-bred squire of the
old, almost extinct type, Mr. De Witt had
never felt either the inclination or the
necessity for mental culture, and rarely
turned a page except those of his ' Sporting
Times ' or ' Field.' Music and art were to
him dead letters, the sound of the horn, the
only note for which he cared, and the points
of a well-bred horse, his only definition of
the lines of beauty. He had made no
objection to his son entering the army,
although he would perhaps have preferred
to keep him loafing about the premises at
Hadley Hall, and thought him a fool to

want further interests in life than those
supplied by the field and the race-course,
with the ambition of a future M.F.H.ship ;
but now that he lay paralyzed, a log of
inactivity, he was not going to part with
his only son ; Barry must be at his beck
and call, must visit the hunters daily, see
after that clever knave of a head groom,
Finchley, and read him the latest news
of the sporting world, from which he
found himself so suddenly and irretrievably
banished.

Barrington had acquiesced good-humoured
enough at first in the programme; he
was sorry for the old man, and, although
they had not an idea in common, he was
his father, and in a pitiable condition. When,
however, month after month stretched on,
and the leave was again and again applied for
and extended, he began to grow very weary
of his post, and to suggest a change of plans.
But this movement on his part was met by a

startling announcement from the elder man.
Mr. De Witt informed his son that he never
meant him to rejoin so long as he himself
were living. And a quarrel nearly ensued
as nearly as was compatible with Barrington's
easy temper, and his fathers desire
not to rouse him into an open defiance,
and so to lose his point. To prevent this,
he adopted a fretful and complaining tone.

You can do what you like when I am
gone,' he said. * I shan't trouble you long.
Can't you give up your own way for a few
months '? '

And the young man found himself forced
to accede, with a suspicion that began to be
certainty how it would end. When, however,
the final notice came, that leave could no
longer be renewed, and that he must either
return to his duties or retire, Barrington
once more approached the old man, determined
to fight a battle for his profession.
Needless to say, he retired worsted. A

father against a son, selfish obstinacy
against a yielding, kindly nature, was
sure to win the day. Even had Barrington
decided upon open rebellion, ,the elder De
Witt held the purse-strings, he was absolutely
dependent upon him, and could
scarcely manage to exist solely upon his
pay. But he never thought of rebelling
against him. He merely received in silence
the old man's closing remark, ' You'll be
glad to see me in my grave, I dare say ! '
and then with a sore heart sat down to
send in his papers.

Perhaps the most trying part of the
business was, that the sacrifice seemed after
all so unavailing, and that before another
six months were over, the squire had gone
to join a race of fox-hunting forefathers in
the family vault at Hadley village church.

And thus at seven-and-twenty Barrington
had found himself alone in the world,
professional and homeless,  for he was

advised to leave the impoverished family
seat to recoup its income by a timely
economy,  and comparatively friendless
amongst a set of dull country people who
had been civil enough, but whom he found
for the most part thoroughly uncongenial.

The six hunters were sold, all except
one which he kept for a time for his own
use ; the two racers in course of training
at a celebrated training stable in the next
county were likewise disposed of, the
servants paid off, and De Witt said goodbye
to Hadley, and went up to town with
a very hazy idea as to what to do with
himself. In town he knocked up against
a good many of his former fellow-officers,
and the sio-ht of them did not tend to
allay the irritable disgust with which he
contemplated his own resignation. This
was indeed the second great trouble of his
life, and eventually drove him abroad to
seek distraction in foreign life and travel.

The only other trouble he had ever experienced
in the course of a pleasant easy
existence had been the loss of his mother.
Fifteen years ago it was now, but every detail
of her death and illness was as firmly fixed in
his memory as if it had happened yesterday.
His father had never been much to him,
as boy or man ; but his beautiful young
mother he had adored whilst living, and
still worshipped in memory. Graceful,
sparkling, and accomplished, her match
with the good-looking, one-idea's ss-
man, so greatly her inferior, was a matter
of astonishment to all her friends ; yet they
always appeared to be a happy couple,
and if Mr. De Witt had ever cared unselfishly
in his life, it had been for his
spirited, delicate bride. She had been a
good and affectionate wife, but it was clear
to every one that her heart was chiefly
bound up in her boy, the only child of their
marriage, and who, both in physiognomy

and disposition, resembled herself rather
than his father.

At the time of her death, Barrington
had been but thirteen, the shyest and most
awkward of ages,  the age when a boy
may feel, lout cannot express his feelings, 
and perhaps no one amongst the mourners
gathered together at the funeral had guessed
how sore was the heart of the big, silent,
unfriendly boy who so sullenly refused all
advances to draw him into conversation.
None perhaps, save one, who, by her warm,
loving sympathy, had become from that date
his dearest friend, his woman confidante.
This was Aunt Judith ; or, to give her her
full title. Miss Judith CoUyer. Miss Collier
was not very old even now,  decidedly
upon the sunny side of forty,  but at the
time of her sister's death she had been
quite a young girl, not more than one or
two and twenty. She bore a great resemblance
to her elder sister, who perhaps had

been the more beautiful and sjnrituelle of
the two, whilst Judith was the more graceful
and piquante. Her intelligence was
keen, and her tongue ready, but rarely
sharp ; and to a natural reticence of disposition,
she joined unusual powers of
discriminating the character of others. She
had but few friends of her own sex, but
those staunch ones; whilst her ready wit
and pleasing presence made her many
admirers amongst the other, notwithstanding
a little trick she had of making fun of
them before their faces.

Aunt Judith it was who had followed
the lonely boy where he lay outstretched,
miserable and tearless, after his mother's
funeral, in an out-of-the-way part of the
garden ; had asked him no questions, made
no preliminary remarks, but had probed the
child's stricken heart at once, and joined its
sorrow to her own ; sitting beside him on
the ground, stroking the ruffled hair, as.

with the tears running down her own
smooth pale cheeks, and her large bright
eyes full of tenderness, she talked to him
softly of his mother, of his own trouble,
and of his future life, until the flood-gates
were opened, and he sobbed out his first
bitterness with his head upon her knee.

By nature Aunt Judith was shy, but
she had said things then which the boy
had never forgotten, and which, planted
as they were in the impressionable soil
of sorrow, had perhaps helped to mould
his character in after years, and to keep
it free from some of those grosser sins
which are likely to assail a man, young,
attractive, and independent. He was thinking
of Aunt Judith now as he leant against
the Capri rocks, and somehow the remembrance
of her brought before him the face
of his yesterday's companion in the Blue
Grotto. Something there undoubtedly was
akin in the two countenances; probably

in the lines, sweet, but a little scornful, as
if impatient of the humbug of the world,
about the lips of both.

But at this moment Waif suddenly raised
his head and stood at attention, hearing the
approach of passers-by. And the next
moment they appeared upon the scene, in
single file upon the narrow rocky path ; and
De Witt pushed his hat from his brows and
sat up. First came Miss Hopkins, the young
American, seated not ungracefully upon a
large donkey, and in full flow of a vigorous
flirtation with the consumptive artist, Mr.
Wallace ; next, Mrs. Brereton, escorted by
a handsome, smiling donkey-woman, whose
whacks upon the broad back of the beast of
burden seemed as constant as they were
necessary ; and last of all, her daughter,
likewise on donkey-back, and followed by
Mr. Brereton and another woman-driver.

All the party greeted De Witt after some
fashion ; the donkey - women grinned and

smiled their sweetest at him out of rich
brown eyes ; the little American gave him
a coquettish glance, whilst her companion
nodded in a friendly manner, and Mrs.
Brereton asked him if he were bound in
the same direction as themselves.

It was decidedly to De Witt's credit that
he was able at one and the same moment
to reply to this question, to acknowledge
the artist's nod, and also to observe Miss
Lingwood sufficiently closely to perceive
that, whilst bending her head in an infinitesimal
amount of recognition, a slight flush
swept over her cheek.

A few moments later the party had
rounded the corner and were out of sight,
and De Witt, who was always rather chary
of thrusting himself upon the notice of
new acquaintances, continued his reverie for
another quarter of an hour before moving
in the same direction. When he did
so, he walked on to the top of the hill,

passing the others, who had digressed
towards the so-called Tiberius' Tower at the
foot of the eminence. Just as he reached
the summit, however, he stumbled up against
Wallace the artist, standing supporting
himself against a rock. His face was
ghastly white and his breath laboured.

It's all right,' he said with a faint smile,
as De Witt approached. 'I ran up the
slope too quickly, that's all' And he
paused to take breath again. ' You haven't
got such a thing as a drop of brandy about
you, have you ? '

De Witt pulled a flask from his pocket,
and pouring some cherry brandy into the
cup, held it towards the other.

Thanks ; I'm getting all right now.
My heart's a bit weak, you see ; I mustn't
go the pace up-hill.'

Do you often have these attacks ? '

'Pretty often, if I'm not careful. I
generally take something with me, but I

VOL. I. E

forgot it to-day. You see Fm a consumptive
sort of fellow. When I first came here,
a year ago, the doctors wouldn't promise
me six months' lease of life ; but Capri's
done me no end of good, and now they give
me several years. I shouldn't wonder
myself if I cheated them yet out of a
score.'

'Not if you run up-hill.'

No, I'm a fool to forget that. But,
lord I if you could only have heard me
coughing when first I came here. I scarcely
ever stopped, and the man in the next
room to mine complained he couldn't get a
wink of sleep all night. Now I only have
half-an-hour or so every morning when I
get up. You've got that room now. Did
you hear me this morning ? '

A little,' replied De Witt, smiling at his
companion's simplicity. ' But why aren't
you with the others ? '

Well, you see, Miss Hopkins left her

parasol somewhere on the grass up here,
and sent me after it ; and I didn't want to
keep her waiting. And now, after all, I
have never found it, and she will be
wondering why I don't turn up.'

*Sit still quietly, and Waif and I will
find it for you.' And De Witt started
off.

Here, Waif, good fellow, hunt about,
and bring what you find ! '

In another two or three minutes he had
returned, and was beside the artist again.

I've seen the chapel and the hermit,
and Waif has found the parasol, so we
haven't wasted time, have we ? Would you
like an arm ? '

Oh, no ; I'm as right as a trivet now,
and much obliged to you for everything.
I say, you won't say anything about my
going queer, will you ? '

Certainly not.'

That hermit fellow's a humbug, do you

E 1

,ssrs.s<

know ? He puts on his cassock and this long
face for the summer visitors only. In
private life lie's a shoemaker, and as jolly
as any other man.'

Ah ! then I'm glad I hadn't time to
listen to his twaddle. I was in hopes
humbug hadn't spread to Capri yet.'

Don't you think it's everywhere ? ' asked
the young artist, with a boyish earnestness
that made his companion smile.

By this time they were nearing the
bottom of the slope and the Tiberius Tower,
and whilst Mr. Wallace hastened to restore
her lost sunshade to the fair American,
Barrington was accosted by Mrs. Brereton,
always the most socially-disposed of the
party.

'Excuse me,' she said, after exchanging
a few commonplaces on the subject of the
scenery and the climate, ' but Mr. Wallace,
who was so good as to offer to show us the
way to this place to-day, mentioned your

name incidentally just now, and I must
ask if you have any connections in Somerset-shire
? '

My father's first cousin lives there.'
At Boston Court ? '

The same.'

Dear me ! We know Sir Simon quite
well ; intimately in fact. How small the
world is ! How strange it would have been
if we had met you there ! for I suppose you
have stayed there sometimes ? '

I have paid one or two visits ; but my
father and he were not very congenial
spirits. My father was all for horses, and
Sir Simon is a bookworm.'

A very hospitable and agreeable bookworm.
Then your father is dead, Captain
De Witt ? '

A year ago, madam.'

I must introduce myself and my husband
to you. Edward, Captain De Witt is
a cousin of our old friend, Sir Simon.'

The introduction comes rather late,'
remarked her husband, in what was intended
for a pleasant manner ; * for Captain
De Witt and I have already had one or two
conversations, and I was indeed indebted
to him for the name of our hotel.'

Talk now flowed briskly, but was not
joined in by Miss Lingwood, who sat a
little apart on the short tufted grass, her
eyes fixed upon the sapphire sea, apparently
unconscious of anything except its gleaming,
sparkling beauty.

When the word for returning was driven,
the procession started in different wise from
that maintained in going, for both girls
declared that they preferred descending
on foot; and Mr. Brereton, who remarked
that the sun was a little too much for
him, mounted his step-daughter's donkey.
Miss Hopkins and her artist admirer led
the way, and were soon out of sight ; Mr.
and Mrs. Brereton followed each other

somewhat nervously down the stony way,
and De Witt naturally imagined that
Miss Lingwood's society would fall to
his share. He was wrong, however, for
she engaged herself in a halter conversation
with one of the laughing donkey-women,
whilst her mother absorbed his
own attention.

They were more than half-way home
when Mrs. Brereton gave a sudden cry.
Oh, that foolish girl ! She puts my heart
in my mouth. How I wish she would not
climb such places ! I am sure she risks
her neck,' and she pointed to where her
daughter stood upon a pinnacle of rock
some little distance off, showing against
the clear blue horizon like a lithe young-statue
on a pedestal.

She is not safe,' remarked her husband ;
I had better go after her. What a worry
these girls are ! Why can't you make them
behave sensibly, Lucia 1 '

But Lucia was too anxious to take any
notice of this reproof.

Nonsense, Edward, you can't go, you
would lose your head directly at that
height I You know you can't climb.'

Let me go,' said De Witt, though suspicious
that the young lady might bestow
a snubbing upon him in return for the
proffered assistance ; and his offer was
accepted with gratitude.

'Have you a strong head. Captain De
Witt ? You have no idea the places that
child gets to.'

Barrington restrained a smile \\'ith
difficulty.

I think I feel competent to scale that
rock,' he replied soberly.

He was soon at the foot of the peak. On
seeing him approach Miss Lingwood had
at first commenced descending, but after
a moment or two had paused, and returned
to her former position, whence she sat.

eyeing him curiously with a flushed, half-laughing
face.

I am sent to assist you down,' he
remarked, as he swung himself up beside
her ; ' your parents are unhappy about your
safety.'

My parent, if you please.'
I beg your pardon ? '

My parent. Mr. Brereton is my stepfather.'


Indeed. But he is anxious too. But I did
not suppose you would accept any assistance.'

Then you are wrong.'

Indeed ? Then I am glad I came.'

Did you think I should be annoyed by
your coming ? '

I thought it  just possible.'

So I probably should have been if I
could have managed it alone. But I
couldn't, you see. I tried, and failed. I
confess the humiliating truth  I got frightened,
and my knees shook.'

How charming she looked now as she
smiled her frank fall smile, her eyes sparkling
with fun, and her face lit up with
amusement ! De Witt with difficulty restrained
himself from saying so ; and he
was mentally comparing her with the silent
impassive girl of a few minutes ago, when
she roused him by a sudden exclamation.

How I wish I were a man ! '

'I don't,' he replied, with a friendly
smile that spared him the rebuff such a
speech from any other might have elicited
from Nell Lingwood. ' But why ? '

Oh, because it is such a horrid shame
that everything pleasant should be right
and easy to men, which is difficult and
improper for women. Look at the way you
swung yourself up here, just like  like  '

Like a big kangaroo,' he suggested.

Well, like a kangaroo then. And look
at my idiocy  unable to go down without
help

What should you have done if I hadn't
come after you ? Called for assistance 1 '

Never ! I would have sat here all night
first. I should have tried to get down,
and probably fallen.'

Good heavens ! You would have broken
your neck.'

Well, if I had, it's my own neck. But
we must be descending now.'

Wouldn't you like first to go up to the
very top, as you are so fond of climbing ?
It would not take us long.'

Miss Lino'wood laughed. ' If mamma
only guessed that you were tempting me
on to further heights instead of bringing
me down ! '

'It is very wrong of me, I know said
De Witt, with an air of comic enjoyment.

But I can't say no ! '

The summit was reached in safety, and
then the bottom regained ; and, whether
it were that admiration which a steady

eye, a strong arm, and a light foot invariably
rouses in a girl's breast, or from any
other cause, De Witt's companion showed
no further signs of wanting to run away
from him, but walked beside him in friendly
chat.

'You are a good climber. Captain De
Witt. Have you ever done any Alps '? '

*A few; but I have travelled but little
till the last year. I never was abroad
before, except as a small boy to a German
school.'

'And yet you speak Italian so well'

One can't help speaking Italian. The
people are so sympathetic, and their faces
so expressive, that one can almost understand
them without words.'

Are you very fond of Italians ? '

'Yes, I like them. They are so warmhearted,
so friendly.'

'But do you care for friendliness that
means nothing 1 '

I don't think it means notliinsf. One
doesn't want deep and lasting sentiments
for every-day trifles, but one likes good-humoured
sociability.'

Those people would do nothing for you
if you really wanted help.'

I don't know that. I don't see myself
why pleasant civil persons should be of a
more selfish mould than grumpy ones.'

Miss Lingwood laughed. 'Do you call
the English a grumpy nation, Captain De
Witt?'

'Abroad you usually meet with two
varieties  the loud obtrusive specimen, and
the stiff", noli-mi-tangereJ

I know it used to be said that the
English Meet abroad was a starched, stuck-up
creature, but my experience now is, that
most of those one meets on the Continent
are extremely free-and-easy, not to say
fast girls.'

Yes, there are a good many of that sort.

But there are still some who remind one of
Edmund About's English heroines in ''Le
Eoi des Montagnes." '

Yes,' she said, with a mischievous smile,
or of the young lady who was wrecked
off the coast of Malabar.'

What did she do ? '

'The steamer she was on ran upon the
rocks somewhere, and the passengers' lives
were in danger. She was terribly frightened,
and flung her arms round one of the ship's
officers, imploring him to save her. This
he did, jumping into the sea with her, and
swimming; with her to land. But the next
morning when he met her again, and hoped
she was none the worse for her terrors
of the previous day, she put up her eyeglass
and remarked that she was not aware
that she had had the pleasure of an
introduction.'

The story was well told, and Barrington,
amused to see how soon she had dropped

her first armour of unsociability, could not
help wondering whether the little flush
that had risen to her cheeks during the
narration were due to a consciousness that
the cap in any fashion fitted her own head.
Certainly there was little or no stiffness
about her now ; she seemed completely to
have thrown off" the somewhat chilling
reserve which had before characterized her,
and was so pleasant a companion, that he
was conscious of a slight feeling of annoyance
at the sight of Mr. Brereton, still
mounted upon his ass, patiently waiting
for them at a turn of the road.

 You were so lons I beg-an to fear

o o

something might have happened he remarked.
' I suppose it was a steep place
to come down ? Your mother is gone on,
Eleanor ; she is quite over-tired with this
dreadful road and the shaking of the
donkey's step.'

Barrington could not resist stealing a

glance towards his companion during the first
part of this sentence, perceiving, as he did
so, a corresponding gleam of amusement on
her features, which she vainly endeavoured
to conceal from him. During the rest of
the way home, however, Miss Lingwood
resumed her conversation with Eafaella,
the donkey-girl, whilst De Witt strolled
on beside her stepfather, cigar in mouth.
He found the little salon empty when
he entered it dressed for dinner, and sitting
down to the piano, amused himself by
strumming various old airs, and singing a
snatch of song now and then in a fair baritone.
He had not much voice, but he had
a great deal of taste. He looked up as the
door opened and Miss Lingwood entered,
followed by her friend. The latter appeared
to have partially resumed her defensive
armour during the two or three
hours that had elapsed since the return
from her walk, but she was not quite proof

against the oriental smile with which De
Witt greeted their entrance, and she sat
down not far from the piano.

'Don't stop  don't get up exclaimed
Blanche Hopkins, as he rose from the piano ;
it's quite a pleasure to hear any one sing
or play decently. There wasn't a soul with
a note of music in them at our hotel in
Naples. Was there, Nell ? '

Miss Ling wood nodded assent, and De
Witt continued his playing, this time, however,
breaking into one of the new, pathetic
waltz tunes, that, as Blanche Hopkins said,
'just set her wondering always whether to
cry or to dance and led to an animated discussion
between herself and him as to the
different merits of the ' Boston,' the ' Liverpool
lurch,' and the ' Swing.' In the midst
of which the rest of the company dropped
in, and the young artist squeezed himself
into a low chair beside the pretty American
and joined in the argument, until the

VOL. I. F

announcement of dinner caused a general
break-up, and De Witt found himself
seated between Miss Lingwood and a fat
Russian smelling strongly of hair-grease.

Eaves-dropping is a shocking and dishonourable
practice ; no gentleman could
plead guilty to so low a misdemeanour.
Yet there are circumstances under which
the most innocently-intentioned of persons
overhear remarks of a private nature,
possibly referring to themselves.

Such was the case with De Witt that
evening, as he sat upon the stone balustrade
of a little balcony leading out of one of the
sitting-rooms, about eleven o'clock. It was
a warm beautiful night, the stars were
brilliant and the air breezeless, and he did
not realize how near he was to some of
the bedroom windows, until a girlish voice
suddenly struck upon his ear.

I do wish, Blanche,' it said gravely,
'that you would not flirt so much. It's

somebody fresh at each place. Novo it's
that poor young artist

Don't sou talk, my dear ! Didn't you
scramble up that great rock on purpose
for handsome Mr. Longings to fetch you
down ? '

There was a real annoyance in Miss
Lingwood's tone as she replied :

You know, Blanche, that is not true !
You 7mo2D I climb everywhere, and, if I
had thought he was coming, should have
stopped below. I have had enough and
too much of that sort of thing, and am sick
of it. It all disgusts me now I know what
it is worth.'

Oh, my dear, you're too sharp upon the
men. I guess they are not all liars, though
David did say so.'

I think they are all self-interested.'

De Witt fancied he detected a note of
sadness in the girl's voice, as, motioning in
silence to Waif, he moved away guiltily to

F 2

the other end of the terrace, instinctively
wondering what mournful experience could
have instilled suspicions so uncomplimentary
to his sex in the breast of a young and
handsome woman.

CHAPTER IV.

A TUSSLE WITH THE WAVES.

And I have loved thee, Ocean ! and my joy
Of youthful sports was on thy breast to be
Borne, like thy bubbles, onward : from a boy
I . . trusted to thy billows far and near,
And laid my hand upon thy mane  as I do here.'

Byron.

The acquaintance between De Witt and
the Brereton party rapidly ripened. The
artist too was generally to be found hovering
somewhere in the vicinity of Miss
Hopkins ; and on the occasion of any long
expedition, shared with the other the care
of arranging and providing for its success.
The guests in the house were fewer than
usual, and were not an interesting set.

There were two or three Russians, a loud-voiced
party of muscular Germans, male
and female, and a low-church English
parson and his pale-looking, depressed
wife and daughter ; besides a newly-married
couple, who usually had their meals by
themselves, rarely entered the public sitting-room,
and seemed to regard their fellow
humans as monsters to be avoided or
glanced at suspiciously without words.
Under these circumstances, according to
the rule of mutual attraction, the agreeable
members of the party naturally gravitated
towards each other and formed a sociable
quietest, only slightly disturbed by the
prim and fussy tendencies of Mr. Brereton,
who was a far more strict and efficient
chaperone than his wife, and was sometimes,
De Witt fancied, a little too much inclined
to give prominence to that onerous position.
The daily scrambles were now generally
undertaken by the four young people

together, Mr. Brereton making a bad fifth,
and the evenings spent together, round the
little tuneless piano, in the rendering of music,
vocal and instrumental, more or less successful.
After a week, however, of idyllic calm and
sunshine, the weather suddenly changed,
and the true April climate began to declare
itself. The sea rose into green, foam-tipped
mountains, and dashed with a noise of
thunder on to the Marina or against the
rocky cliff's ; and the winds howled and
raged from every quarter, sweeping across
the island and meeting in a fury on the
narrow saddle that ran down its centre.
The little diurnal steamer appeared no more,
no fresh tourists arrived, and those that
were already in the hotels found themselves
condemned to an exile of uncertain duration
from the mainland. Mrs. Brereton and her
two charges took the matter very philosophically.
The elder lady got out her
crewel work and touched up her sketches

under Wallace's assistance, and the two girls
sang: duets and dried seaweeds : but Mr.
Brereton was not so patiently disposed.

It was about the time fixed for their
return to Sorrento, and he became nervous
and irritable at the delay, doing his best to
rouse the same feelings in the placid breast
of his wife. As day by day the storms
continued, his discontent increased, and
displayed itself in an acerbity of temper
that made him far from an agreeable
companion, and must have been very trying
to the amiable partner of his life. In
plain words, Mr. Brereton ragged a process
which only induced an additional deference
and submission from his gentle spouse (with
perhaps now and then a furtive tear or
two), but which the two girls appeared to
treat with indifference that bespoke a
certain amount of mild contempt.

Just about this time, Barrington began
to notice that there was not any very large

amount of devotion existing; between Miss
Lingwood and her step-father. He was
extremely careful of her, and, as a rule, outwardly
polite to her ; but there was evidently
little real cordiality between them, and
more than once, after one of the former's
querulous outbreaks, De Witt had caught
her eyes fixed upon her mother for a
moment pitifully, and then turned towards
him with a look not unlike scornful dislike.
Nell Lingwood, he felt, was not one to be
chary in the distribution of her feelings ;
her emotions were all well accentuated ; were
she to love, she would do it with all her
heart ; were she to dislike, there would be
no doubt about the matter.

For his part De Witt had no objection
to the change in the weather. It would
have been a pity to break up so pleasant
a party so soon, as would have been done
by a return to the mainland, and it was
interesting: to see the little island lashed

into such a condition of elemental fury.
He had rather a weakness for storms
himself, and enjoyed fighting his way along
the narrow paths at the risk of being blown
over the cliffs ; or lying on the seashore
watching the advancing waves as they
flung their sheet of spray over Waif and
himself. One might get tired of this sort
of thing ; but for a few days it was
very pleasant. And it was nice, after
such an afternoon's solitary battling with
wind and rain, to take off one's drenched
things, have a good wash, and come in,
feeling clean and civilized assail, to the
quiet, brightly-lit salon, and an evening of
music and merry talk.

One morning Barrington rose early and
made his way down to the Marina before
any one else in the house was up or about.
The wind was blowing fiercely, but the
sky was almost clear, and, for the first
time for a week, there was no rain falling.

Enough as it was, the post-boat, an ordinary
rowing boat, was, as he expected, preparing
to start to the mainland to fetch the letters.
There was a little demur amongst the menas
Barrington made his request to be taken
amongst them, but a gratuity settled the
question, and he stepped on board. Certainly,
had the swarthy crew guessed that
no pressing business, but simply pleasure,
called him with them, they would have
expressed still more volubly their sense of
his foolhardiness in joining their trio.

*You mustn't mind a good tossing,
signor,' remarked the captain of the boat ;
it's a bad day, and going to be worse. I
don't much like the going myself.'

De Witt glanced at his dog, who was
preparing to follow him, and suddenly
motioned him back.

Eight, signor,' said the man ; ' no room
for dogs to-day. You must sit as still as a
mouse.'

Barrington smiled. He could not have
explained the instinct that made him unwilling
to risk his faithful canine friend in
an adventure about which he had no fears
for himself.

Back, Waif ! Go home, good dog ! ' he
shouted to the unwilling animal ; and, for
the first time since he had come into his
master's keeping, Waif deferred obedience.

Back, Waif ! Do you hear what I say ?
This moment, sir ! Home ! '

And a miserable, tail-drooping dog, after
one last long appealing look towards the
boat and its beloved contents, turned sadly
away from the pier and went up the hill.
Poor Waif ! who knows his trouble in that
moment ? How could he tell that his lord
would ever return from that watery expedition
to rejoice his loving eyes ? How
could he tell he was not once more a
deserted and masterless dog ? But I think
he knew better than that ; I think a short

acquaintance with De Witt had taught him
that the latter was not one to desert his
friends ; and if he went up-hill with a sad
heart and dispirited mien, it was because
he feared that rising treacherous sea, and
would have preferred to share its peril with
his idol.

Meanwhile, Barrington and his three
companions were indeed having a tossing,
and progressed but slowly, owing to the
impossibility of employing much sail in
such a gale. The boat was remarkably
sea-worthy, and the captain of the crew
experienced and skilful, yet the trip was
not wholly without danger, and was certainly
one which no other craft save the
post-boat would have undertaken in such
weather. To De Witt it was all pure
enjoyment ; there was nothing he liked
better than a food buffeting out at sea ;
and as the great waves rose up on all sides,
covering him with spray and threatening to

engulf the boat, he flunoj his hat under the
seat and looked around him rejoicingly.

The Capri sailors were certainly no
cowards, or they would not have gone out
that day, but the pleased expression of the
Englishman's countenance was by no means
reflected upon theirs ; and, as they toiled
slowly on, their features grew longer and
more anxious, and they regarded the
stranger with astonished and half-indignant
eyes. Suddenly came two seas that, notwithstanding
the careful steering of the captain,
swept the boat nearly broadside on, and
more than half filled her with water ; and
for a moment all three men turned white
and ejaculated to their saints, before putting
themselves to the work of baling out.

Let me have the oars,' said De Witt,
quietly creeping on to one of the rowing
seats ; ' it is only fair to take my turn.'
And the captain, who would have demurred,
desisted when he perceived that the new

oarsman pulled with a strong, steady stroke
throuoli the boiling sea.

Meanwhile, Barrington was aware of a
little movement amongst the men, and discovered
that a box was being handed round,
into which each put a donation for the
benefit of the Madonna, in the way of
pledging her present protection. They cast
one dubious glance towards him, and then,
seeing how usefully he was engaged, replaced
the box silently beneath the seat,
and attended themselves once more to
business. In another few minutes they had
safely turned the corner of the last Capo,
and were rowing into Sorrento in comparatively
smooth water.

'You row well, signor,' said the polite
captain, showing two lines of white teeth in
his satisfaction, as at length all four sprang
out upon the little pier, shaking the wet off
their clothes like so many newfoundland ;
but we shall have an easier time of it going

back. Cospetto ! we were nearly swamped
this time. Bat the wind is going down
already, and is in our favour returning.'

He was quite right ; the return journey
was a far less exciting one ; the wind was
abating, and was not too much to fill the
sails satisfactorily, and to send the boat
along at a rattling pace, rising gallantly to
the helm and dipping her prow gaily in the
pure green waves as she cut a way through
the foam-covered surface. There was no
talk about the Madonna's box this time,
and perhaps Geronimo or Tgnazio began to
feel a lurking suspicion that they had been
too generous, and that ten centissimi might
have done as well as the half-franc they had
been foolish enough to put in. If they did
so, however, it was not for long. A rough
sea and a chopping wind always make ita
case of touch and go in an open sailing
boat, and a moment's carelessness at anytime
is quite enough to prove fatal. So it

was in this case. They were not far from
the home landis; stao;e, and all but beneath
the shadow of the Capri cliffs, when a
sudden squall caught them  a rush of wind
from a new quarter, howling down from
between one of the rocky gullies.

Loosen ! ' shouted the captain to the
man who was holding the sheet in his hand,
but both were a moment too late. The
gust caught the sail almost taut, and in an
instant heeled the boat over ; whilst the
sailor, losing his balance, clung to the line
instead of letting go. In another second
the boat had capsized, and its four occupants
were in the water. Fortunately all could
swim ; and as the craft was fairly bottom
upwards, and none entangled, all could
and did grasp its keel firmly. Barrington
gave one of the men, who seemed less
ready than the rest, a helpful shove ; and
then, seeing that all were safe, cast a
glance in the direction of the shore.

VOL. I. G

Correggio ! ' exclaimed the captain at the
same moment, *they are coming to our
assistance.' And De Witt heard the reassuring
shouts, and now and then saw,
above the moving waves, two punts coming
swiftly towards them. It was as well ; for
in this sea it would have been impossible
to right their own boat, and hazardous to
swim through the surf that broke upon the
shore. It was difficult enough, as it was, to
take breath between the sheets of spray
that broke incessantly above their heads
across the boat. But first, before the two
punts could reach them, arrived at the
scene of action a black object, that made
straight for Barrington, and paused beside
him at his order.

Back, Waif  down, sir ! '

How poor Waif managed to be the first
we must proceed to explain.

When at breakfast time, he, contrary to
custom, appeared alone with a sad and

dejected countenance, and the meal was
finished without the appearance of his
master, one or two persons inquired the
reason why, particularly young Wallace,
who questioned the hotel-keeper.

Yell, signor,' said the latter, ' I think
the Signor Capitan must be gone over in
the post boat ; for his dog came up alone
from the direction of the shore, and there is
certainly no other boat that would put
across in this sea.'

A little further questioning in the village
soon elicited the fact that De Witt had so
done ; and the artist returned, decidedly put
out.

What a fool the fellow is ! ' he remarked
to Mr. Brereton ; 'to go to-day of
all days  the worst gale we have had yet.
I wonder the post went over. If he knew
the Mediterranean as well as I do he
wouldn't risk his neck out on such a sea.'

He must be altogether short of common

G 2

sense, and more than that, to hazard his life
for a mere piece of foolhardiness ! ' replied
Mr. Brereton, whose friendliness towards
the ex-officer seemed to abate in proportion
as that of the ladies of his party augmented.
His tone of detraction appeared to rouse a
general disapprobation.

A fellow shouldn't be a milk-sop either,
you know,' remarked the artist.

Oh, my dear,' said Mrs. Brereton, * very
probably he had some good reason for going
over to-day.'

Mr. Brereton turned away irritably.

All you women have gone mad upon
the fellow,' he muttered ; ' in your opinion
that sort of show-oiF courage is a fine things,
I suppose.'

'It might be show-off in us, but it is
natural, I fancy, to some people,' observed
his step-daughter.

Her tone was very quiet, but there was a
momentary glow upon her face which did

not tend to improve Mr. Brereton's temper
as he turned an angry look upon her and
left the room.

Breakfast was no sooner over than
Blanche Hopkins besought her friend to
take a turn in the direction of the Marina.

I don't want to see the boat come in,'
said Nell ; ' we are not so Avery anxious
about Captain De Witt's safety.'

Aren't we ? ' asked the little American.
I guess I am, though, and I don't mind
saying so. But we needn't wait for it to
come in. We can just watch it in sight,
that's all.' And her companion acquiesced.
Waif following them silently, with none of
his usual youthful bounds and curve tings.

When at length they found a sheltered
nook not far from the landing stage, and
sat down for a while, he squeezed himself
in between them ; for Waif was fond of
ladies' society  nice ladies, that is to say.
He seemed greatly gratified when Miss

Lingwood placed a hand upon this head
and kept it there.

As a rule Miss Hopkins paid Waif the
most attention, yet it was Nell Lingwood
whom the dog plainly preferred. The truth
was, Waif would have found it impossible
to differ from his master in a matter of taste.

Nice dog,' she said, caressing his sleek
black head ; ' dear old dog.' And Waif
responded by gently laying a clean but
sandy paw upon her shoulder, and looking
affectionately into her face with his hazel
eyes.

Almost as nice as his master, but not
quite,' said Blanche Hopkins slyly.

Nell's face became for one moment rosy
red ; then she softly pushed down Waif's
paw, and answered coldly,

A great deal nicer than any master
could be. Do you really imagine, Blanche,
that it is necessary to fall in love with
every agreeable man one meets ? '

I don't know, dear. I think / do, more
or less.'

Ah ! but they all fall in love with you
first  really.'

*And do you think that nobody falls
in love with you  " really " ? Are you so
repellant ? '

Nell drooped her head for a moment.

No one will ever care for me disinterestedly,
I think,' she said in a low voice.

Oh, my dear, how unjust you are ! Do
you think there are no real gentlemen  no
noble-minded men in the world ? '

I don't know ; there are many more of
the other sort, I fancy.'

What a pity you've got such a lot of
money ! ' remarked Miss Hopkins, looking
at her friend compassionately ; ' you would
be much happier if you weren't an heiress.'

I should be a free woman,' said the
other, as if in assent to her words.

And then silence fell between the two

girls, as they sat watching the long lines of
dazzling foam, and listening to the roar of
the breakers that dashed in upon the shore
below them. Presently Nell Ling wood
rose.

'There is no sign of the boat, Blanche,'
she said ; ' we had better go on ; it is often
late, you know, when the weather is bad.
Will it be late to-day, Giuseppe ? ' she
inquired of a young boatman whose acquaintance
they had made, and who
happened to be passing.

Si, signorina, it may not be in for an
hour or two yet ; perhaps they will wait at
Sorrento till the wind abates.'

And the pair dawdled homewards, calling
to Waif to follow them. But Waif had
other intentions, and merely wagged his
tail in reply as a parting salutation. There
was no reason now why he should not take
up his position on the shore, and await his
master's return. That day, the next, or

when ? No matter ; when he did come his
dog would be the first to see him. It was
all very well leaving the pier and returning
to the house that morning; when he was
bidden. He had performed the duty of
obedience without argument. But there
had been no fiat against his return to the
shore ; and there he now meant to stay  a
spare, erect dog, with nose pointed seawards
and keen eyes scanning the distant
horizon.

Patience usually has its reward at last.
And presently the bright eyes grew more
fixed in their observation as a speck appeared
in view, now rising above, now lost
among the waves ; and all Waifs body
began to quiver with the eagerness of a
hope which soon became certainty. His
master was there ! He shifted his position
a few yards, and again sat himself down
statue-like. But a few moments later there
was a sudden sharp short yelp from the

dog ; and he had plunged headlong off the
pier into the boiling surf, and was making
his way oat to sea with steady strokes of
his strong young limbs. He had been the
first to see the upsetting of the boat, and
was the first to reach the floating men ; and
when De Witt called to him to retire, and
to abstain from lending assistance, he remained
swimming about, round and round
his master, in an agony of apprehension.

The submersion was a tolerably lengthy
one, and the first boat was none too soon
for one or two of the men, who were
growing exhausted with the effort of
holding on to a slippery surface whilst
being knocked about so roughly by the
angry sea. Barrington, however, was little
the worse for his plunge ; his circulation
was sufficiently good and his arms sufficiently
athletic to make the situation less
trying to him than to most men, whilst
his nerves were proof to stand against a

tolerably severe test. He began to laugh
as soon as he had scrambled into the boat
after his companions  chiefly at the woebegone
appearance they all presented, and
could not resist the enjoyment of a word of
chaff.

Where is the Madonna's box ? ' he asked
with mischief in his eye ; ' did she not even
take the trouble to save that ? What a
pity you wasted your soldi.'

The Captain crossed himself.

*Hush, Signor,' he said, shivering with
the cold of his long immersion, for the day
was unusually chilly ; ' you should not joke
on such a matter. Who knows but that we
might all have been drowned just now if it
had not been for the goodness of Our Lady
del Succours ? '

CHAPTER Y.

A WINDY WALK.

Precipitous cliffs, black and lowering 
Waves rolling hoarsely and high 
Foam streaks, like pale lips quivering.
Pressed towards a last good-bye.'  Anon.

De Witt took care to creep indoors
as unobtrusively as possible. He bad no
fancy to play the hero of a somewhat
foolish prank, and was congratulating himself
upon his luck in meeting no one, when,
upon the top of the staircase, he came face
to face with Blanche Hopkins and Mr.
Wallace.

Miss Hopkins flew towards him impulsively.


We were coming to meet the rescued

crew ! ' she exclaimed ; ' how quick you
have come up. Oh, I am glad you are all
right ! But we shan't soon forgive you the
fright you gave us all, I guess. There !
if you had managed to drown yourself 
only fancy ! '

There would have been one useless
mortal the less in the world,' he replied,
unable to resist holding the small hand
in his for a moment. ' Should you have
cared ? '

Cared ! I should think so ! I should
have felt like crying my eyes out.'

Then she burst into a fit of merry
laughter.

Oh, my ! what a guy you are ! they
forgot to wring you out after your washing.
]airs. Brereton  Nell  look here ! '

But he hurriedly escaped, echoing her
laugh, and followed by Wallace.

Well, you are a pretty fool ! ' remarked
the latter, but in so friendly a tone that his

words could not give offence. * Did you
want to commit suicide genteelly ? '

Why should the boat upset j must because
I was in it ? Am I a jonah ? '

I dare say the men think so.'

I dare say they do ; they were frightened
enough, poor idiots, to think anything. I
say, Wallace, as you are here, just make
yourself useful, will you ? and go at the bell
till you bring up somebody to take away
these wet things.'

It's a mercy they weren't your graveclothes.'


' Perhaps it is ; though why we should
capsize just then I can't imagine. It was
fairly calm, and no gale to speak of. Just
my luck, to play the fool like this.'

You should have seen their faces in the
salon when the news came that you were
upset.'

Why ? ' asked Barring ton, with a shamefaced
laugh. ' Did they go into hysterics ? '

Mrs. Brereton nearly did. She shrieked
aloud until that little sprat of a husband of
hers scolded her into quiet.'

'And the girls  they didn't go into
hysterics, I suppose ? '

'They were awfully upset. They both
went as white  as white as that sheet, and
one of them burst into tears.'

Which ? ' asked Barrington, his head
just emerging from the basin.

Miss Hopkins.'

Barrington plunged his head in once
more before he spoke.

She is a dear little impulsive girl,' he
remarked then.

De Witt  do you think she cares a
scrap for me ? Don't look so startled, man ;
haven't you seen all along how it was with
me ? I've worshipped her, fairly worshipped
her from the first hour I saw her. She's
the loveliest and the sweetest little creature
that ever stepped upon this earth. But

there it doesn't matter whether she cares
for me or not. I mustn't say anything to
her, I suppose. I suppose a man who's
said to be in a consumption oughtn't to
think of marrying, ought he ? '

De Witt rubbed his face hard with the
towel

' How can I tell you, my dear fellow ?
It's rather a nice question, isn't it ? Are
you really so sure you are under sentence of
death ? '

I don't know ; sometimes I think I'm
getting better. But I suppose I'm not.
No, I don't believe I ought to ask any
girl to marry me. But it's hard. I'm
not penniless, and I'm getting on. And
I would make that girl a good husband,
if she'd have me. I dare say you think
me a queer fellow, De Witt, for blurting
aU this out to you, a comparative stranger;
but you have a way with you, and somehow
I've had a liking for you from the

first. You are the first man that's come
to Capri since I arrived here that I've
taken to.'

I wish I could help you ; fate seems
hard upon you.'

Thanks ; it is.' ind the young artist
rose and walked towards the window, a
cloud upon his usually smooth brow.

He had almost recovered his usual lightheartedness,
however, when the household
assembled for lunch, and joined De Witt
heartily in a proposal made by him for a
honos walk towards the lighthouse at the
further end of the island.

What's to be seen there ? ' asked Mr.
Brereton, ungraciously.

The surf, of course,' replied the artist.
It will be a hundred or more feet high
over those rocks.'

We've got plenty of rocks close at hand,
and surf too,' remarked Mr. Brereton ; but
nobody heeded him.

VOL. L H

Mamma, will you come ? ' asked Miss
Lingwood.

Me, my dear !  how could I get all that
way ? All my bones are sore as it is with
those horrible donkeys. Besides, I should
be blown away in this wind.'

'You must be mad, Eleanor, to propose
such a thing to your mother,' remarked
her step-father with scant courtesy ; and
Blanche Hopkins laughed, and said in her
pretty impudent way, 

Don't be so cross, Mr. Brereton ; we can
take very good care of ourselves.'

But this Mr. Brereton would not permit,
and he accordingly escorted the quartette
for the first few miles, making himself
generally disagreeable with his complaints
about the steepness of the hill, the roughness
of the roads, and the boisterous nature
of the wind.

Blanche Hopkins, who with De Witt was
walking a little behind the other three,

laughed again merrily, as stray portions of
a growl came wafting back towards them on
the wings of the breeze.

Poor Nell ! ' she exclaimed compassionately.
* I'm glad, anyhow, I have not got
such a discontented little man tied about
tx) my skirts wherever I go. Isn't it just
wonderful that Mrs. Brereton should ever
have taken a fancy to him ? '

Wonderful indeed ! ' acquiesced De Witt.
And yet, you know,' pursued the girl,

who was of a very charitable disposition,
he's not so bad  it's only he's so bothering.
I believe he's fond in his way of his
wife.'

And his stepdaughter ? ' asked De Witt.

Miss Hopkins screwed up her rosy little
mouth.

Ah, well, you see, that's a different
matter. Nell's an important person because
of her money, but I guess they don't quite
hit it off together.'

H 2

Oh, Miss Lingwood's an heiress, is she ? '

Well, we shouldn't call it such great
things in America, but they think more of
a little money in England, and I suppose
old Brereton would be just mad if she were
to marry and take it off with her

'Perhaps Miss Lingwood may meet
with some one who doesn't care about her
fortune.'

I don't see why she shouldn't ; she's
nice enough and pretty enough. But she
doesn't think she will

Has she so bad an opinion of mankind
in general ? ' asked Barrington, thinking of
the conversation he had overheard on the
balcony.

'Well, you see, it's a nasty thing in
England for a girl to have a lot of money.
There are so many adventurers and fortune-hunters
always pestering her, that it's no
wonder if she begins to think everybody's
the same. I don't. I've plenty of my own

too ; but, goodness me ! I can always tell
you what a man's like the moment I set
eyes on him.'

'I hope you judge me favourably  and
Wallace ? '

'Well, now, if I didn't, do you think I
would talk to you like this ? '

Thank you. Miss Hopkins. I don't
think anything you say to me will be
abused.' And De Witt looked at his companion
with a sense of cordiality.

There ! ' she exclaimed, * I told you Mr.
Brereton would not trouble us long. He's
turning back now; he don't like the wind.
Well, there's one thing we've got to thank
this wind for, and that is, that Robert
Lingwood won't come over so long as it
lasts. He's an awful sailor.'

Who on earth is Eobert Lingwood ? '
inquired her companion.

The son. Ah, his father's not a patch
upon him ! He is real horrid. He's the

only man I ever saw in my life that I
couldn't find a single thing to like in

Barrington laughed at this declaration of
so catholic a regard for humanity.

I guess he's in an awful rage now with
us and the weather, kicking his heels at
Sorrento,' she continued. ' Well, Mr. Bretton,
so you are going home again ? '

Yes ; I have had enough of it. It's nota
fit day for man or beast. And what there
can be in a lump of spray to go scrambling
for miles over this abominable country
passes me. But of course, if you like it,
you must go on.'

Mr. Brereton's desertion caused a little
change in the arrangement of the quartette.
The two in front waited for the
others, and for some few paces they all
walked on abreast; then the narrowness
of the path again separated them, and,
somehow or other, Barrington found himself
beside Miss Lingwood, whilst Wallace

marched on more quickly with the young
American.

A lovely colour flushed her cheeks, she
was more gay and sparkling even than
usual ; and the poor artist, as he walked
beside her on the little path, sometimes
holding her hand for a moment in his to
assist her over the rough places, felt his
head completely gone, and more madly in
love than ever. His good resolutions went
to the winds, and he became more and more
sentimental as at length they sat down to
rest in a nook close beneath the rearing
rocks.

Oh ! ' said Blanche, shuddering as she
gazed down into the boiling sea, and then
shut her eyes, ' I can't bear to look into
it, when I think how nearly Captain De
Witt was drowned this morning ! '

You were very much terrified about
that. Miss Hopkins ? '

*"\Vell, I should just say I was!'

'Would you have been as sorry if it
had been mew he asked, with a lover's
jealousy. ' Would you mind if such a
thing happened to me as to be drowned
or killed in any way ? '

Mind ? Why, I guess I should just go
wild about it.'

Would you really ? Do you really like
me?'

Why, of course I do,' and she turned her
bright eyes full upon him. ' We've all had
real nice times together on this little island
here, haven't we ? '

Too nice for me,' groaned poor Wallace.
'I shan't get over it for years when you
go away  perhaps never.'

Oh, yes, you will,' she said genially ; ' it
isn't so bad as that.'

It couldn't be worse he exclaimed,
desperately. ' I never cared for any one
before  and now  I could just lie down
and die for you  for you, Blanche. And

I suppose I oughtn't to say it, only that
I know you don't care one scrap for me.'

Oh, yes, I do though  I like you
awfully.'

'But not in that way! You wouldn't
marry me ? 

No, not in that way,' she replied slowly.
But in any other way. Won't any other
way do, Mr. Wallace ? Mayn't we be just
dear friends ? '

I'll be thankful to be anything you
will let me,' said the young artist. ' I mayas
well go off the hooks as not,' he continued
despondently. ' I never can get
anything I wish. I don't care if I do die
of consumption now.'

Oh, Mr. Wallace ! get nothing ? Why,
you, so good, and kind, and clever, and so
good-looking, you will get most things in
life you want  from the ladies, at any
rate. And with your talent, why, you
will soon get to the top of the tree ; and

how proud I shall be to have a friend a
Royal Academician.'

'Don't try to comfort me  it's no use,'
said Wallace.

'Well, then, Mr. Wallace, I'll tell you
a secret  a secret nobody knows but my
friend Nell, not even Mrs. Brereton. But
I know I can trust you. I was engaged
to be married before ever I left America ;
or perhaps  it's most likely, you know  I
might have taken a fancy to you.' And
she blushed, and smiled into his face. ' No
one knows of it, Mr. Wallace. We're waiting
because my people think he's too poor,
and he don't feel himself like marrying on
my money ; but he's getting on pretty well
now. So say you'll forgive me, won't you ? '

Wallace had turned towards her, interested
half against his will as she began
her little confidence ; and now he took the
hand she held out towards him, and raised
it to his lips.

I may do this, mayn't I, Blanche ? And
call you by your own pretty name just
once ? '

You might always call me Blanche if
you liked, only I'm afraid Mrs. Brereton
oughtn't think it proper.'

If I'd known this before, Blanche  
And yet, I don't believe knowing anything
would have prevented my caring for you. It
took hold of me the first evening I saw you.'

And he continued to talk gently, sadly
of his own trouble, and of his wasted love,
without anything on the girl's part making
him feel as if she were not the most natural
recipient of his confidences. Miss Hopkins,
in fact, was so tender, so sympathetic, that
her manner unconsciously soothed him, and
helped to heal the wound she had inflicted,
whilst binding the artist to her more strongly
than ever. She was so gentle and so flattering,
that by degrees she restored his troubled
self-respect, and even his equanimity, and

seemed quite to act the part of a mother
consoling a sorrowful child.

Meanwhile De Witt and his companion
had struggled on to the very verge of the
steepest cliffs, where for some time they
crouched upon the overhanging rocks,
unable to hear each other's voices atnid
the wild tumult of the thundering waves,
and wetted by the sheets of foam that
rose up from beneath their feet, a hundred
feet below.

It was long before Nell Lingwood could
tear herself away ; she seemed to find a
fascination in the wild chaos of the waters
and the impassive strength of the resisting
walls ; and even when they had retired a
little way, and were walking slowly up
the path again together, she was silent for
several minutes, as if still under the spell
of that terrible grandeur.

Then she turned towards De Witt,
speaking abruptly :

It wasn't like that where you were this
morning ? '

Why, no. If it had been, there would
not have been a bit of us left as bio: asa
sixpenny-piece.'

What did you feel like when you found
yourself in the water ? '

Well, I felt very foolish.'

Not frightened ? '

Not particularly ; why should I ? I
knew we should all be able probably to
hold on till a boat came.'

Have you never been frightened in your
life ? '

Father. I was mortally frightened once
when a mad dog got into the barrack-yard
and raced me round it ; and I remember
nearly dying of fright once when a fish-bone
stuck in my throat, and couldn't begot
to go up or down.'

What a wonderful thing nerve is,' said
his companion musingly ; ' I wish I had it.'

 I dare say you have as much as I.
Women, at any rate, have an awful lot of
moral courage. They don't care for public
opinion a tithe what men do.'

No, I don't think they do. But then that
is because they have more depth of feeling.'

Have men so little feeling ? ' he asked
with a smile. ' You are hard upon us,
Miss Lingwood.'

Her cheek flushed.

One must not generalize, I suppose.'

Men are not all alike surely, any more
than women,' he observed. ' I fear you area
severe critic'

'I am afraid I am,' she replied with
sudden humility ; * and it is so horrid for a
woman to be suspicious and uncharitable, is
it not ? But I have been unlucky, I think.'
And the sadness of her tone touched De
Witt.

It is better to think too well than too ill
of people, is it nos?' he asked. 'For my

part, I would rather find myself taken in
sometimes than risk the loss of a possible
friend.'

You are quite right she said. ' I am
always telling myself so. But then circumstances
 '

And she stopped, crimsoning suddenly.

He did not press her to finish her sentence
; he was too much struck by the new
phase in her character. He had not
thought it in her to put aside her reserve
so completely.

Don t you think, Captain De Witt,' she
continued presently in the same tone, * it
requires a large mind not to judge all the
world by our own little surroundings ? '

Well, I suppose so. I suppose the mole
thinks all creation must be blind, and the
chrysalis doesn't guess there is anything
outside its skin.'

When I am inclined to be narrow,' she
remarked laughing, yet half serious, ' I

will think of the mole and the chrysalis.
Thank you, Captain De Witt. I think, if I
could change identities, I would become
Blanche Hopkins. She has such a sweet
nature. She likes almost everybody, and
can put up with people who drive me wild.'

But a person who doesn't like everybody
may perhaps like a few the more
strongly?' And he looked towards her
interrogatively.

I don't know about that. If you mean
me, I think I am not much given to
making friends. Blanche there is about the
nearest approach I ever made to a friendship,
and I am only one of a dozen with her.'

Male or female ? ' asked Barrington, his
eyes wandering to where the young lady
referred to stood outlined before them on
a little eminence not far off, her animated
face turned towards her companion.

Miss Lingwood laughed softly as her gaze
followed his.

'Both,' lie replied. 'That is going to
be another sample of Blanche's peculiar
talent, I am afraid.'

The talent of transmuting lovers into
friends ? ' he asked.

Exactly.'

It is a rare one,' he remarked, ' but
must no doubt be very useful to so pretty
and attractive a girl. But is it not rather a
fragile form of friendship when achieved ? '

I should have thought so. But then
I don't believe in men and women friendships,
even where people are supposed not
to be in love.'

I am sorry,' he said gravely. * Do you
make no exceptions to your rule ? '

Oh, no doubt there may be exceptions.'

Because I had hoped that we might
call ourselves something like friends already.'


Nell Lingwood paused, and glanced fora
moment quickly towards him ; then her

VOL. L I

eyes met his with a sudden frankness that
lit up her face with sunshine.

Perhaps we are,' she replied. * I don't
wish to be bigoted. I am quite willing to
try it.'

Then he said brightly, * let us sign the
covenant, and write down the friendship
mutual from this moment.'

'But there must be two conditions,
Captain De Witt.'

Which are ? '

Well, first, that friends only speak the
truth, the entire truth, to each other ; and
secondly, that they never flatter or pay
each other compliments.'

But in keeping the first condition I am
afraid I may sometimes be  unjustly  considered
guilty of breaking the second.'

A slight cloud rested upon her brow.

You are doing it first thing. Is not
that speech meant for a compliment ? '

It is not meant for one.'

If you knew how I hated flattery, how I
loathe the very suspicion of a compliment ! '
she exclaimed impatiently.

Indeed he said seriously and humbly,
I will try my very best not to be disagreeably
civil  I will be as rude as ever I
can.'

Now you are making fun of me. But
we can never be friends if you do not
understand the sort of physical repulsion
what people call "pretty speeches" give me.
I can't explain it, but I am very much in
earnest.'

I am sure you are ; and so am I. And
as I don't want you to dislike me, I shall
remember the warning.'

Thank you,' she said, with a sort oi
childlike simplicity.

She was still very young at heart, he
felt, notwithstanding her implied knowledge
of the world, and suspicion of men
and manners. The girl seemed full of

I 2

contradictions ; her character and her very
words and thoughts seemed to have so
many different inflections, to run in so
many different groves, according to the vein
of feeling that momentarily possessed her,
that she appeared to him like a different
person at different times. She seemed to
have acquired a habit of self-repression
foreign to her natural disposition, and to
be constantly checking a strong and
demonstrative individuality. Since he had
taken to studying her, the fancy gained
possession of his mind that she somehow
typified a beautiful and expansive organism,
cramped into half development by the
outside shell of unfavourable circumstances.
It was a fanciful idea, but one that grew
upon him more and more as he became
better acquainted, and which certainly did
not lessen his interest in his companion.

All the more,' he added, watching her
from beneath half-closed eyelids, * because

I am sure that if you disliked any one, it
would not be by halves.'

She gave a little humiliated sigh.

Have you found out already how vindictive
I am ? But I think there is only one
person in the world I really dislike. And,'
she continued, her face flushing, * he is mean,
and prying, and small-minded. Don't you
think it is an instinct  almost a right one
to dislike low, mean people ? '

In the same way one dislikes all
creeping beasts ? Well, as you say, it is,
at any rate, a natural instinct, and probably
a healthy one.'

Of course I know,' she said thoughtfully,
one ought to try to dislike the qualities,
but tolerate the person. But it is very
difficult to draw that distinction in practise,
is it not ? '

'Very,' replied Barrington, smiling a little.

She seemed now to have completely
taken him at his word, and to have thrown

off the armour of self-defence ; and with
her evidently sincere promise of friendship,
she showed herself to him with a frank ingenuousness
that touched him, and proved
to him that his theory of the cramped
organism was beyond doubt correct.

I wonder,' he continued, ' if it is not too
curious a question  what he has done to
deserve your dislike ? '

It is not anything particular that he has
done. Don t you see ? It is not so much
what people do as what they are that
makes one like or dislike them. One could
forgive a great injury perhaps, but one can
never learn to like a person one despises.
Perhaps you may see the one I am thinking
of some day, and then, I think, you will
feel it too.'

It was not unpleasant, Barrington felt,
to be classed by a pretty girl as likely to
be in sympathy with her on the score of
a sensation of contempt for inferior people ;

and it suddenly flashed across him as an
inspiration who was the particular human
reptile referred to. It must be the Robert
Brereton named by Blanche Hopkins  the
one man in whom that charitable little
coquette could see no redeeming trait 
Miss Logwood's step-brother. Truly, De
Witt began to feel almost curious to behold
this unfavourable specimen of humanity,
and knew not which most to pity  Nell
Lingwood, for the burden of such a connection,
or the young man himself, for his
overweening unpopularity with two such
charming girls. He was too discreet, however,
to put forward his discovery, and
their talk presently drifted into other
channels.

So interested were they both, and so
pleasant a shelter was the little nook which
Barrington had found, that it was not until
a bar of crimson besan to stretch itself
across the golden sky, catching the girl's

eye, that she bethought herself of the hour,
and started from her seat.

'Captain De Witt! Is it really sunset
time ? '

'The sun has not set yet. It is not
much after seven o'clock,' he replied.

We shall be late for dinner.' And she
began to hurry forwards.

'What then?' he demanded coolly.
'We shall be a snug little partie carrie 
much better.'

Where are Blanche and Mr. Wallace ?
I don't see them anywhere.'

'Probably mooning about somewhere near.'

Oh, no, they are not ; they are gone
home. They might have given us a call.'

Perhaps they thought we were old
enough and wise enough to take care of
ourselves.'

I wish you would come on. Captain De
Witt ; you are so dreadfully cool about
everything.'

Why slioulcl I pretend to be sorry when
I'm not ? Why didn't I put you with your
back to the sunset ? '

Then it is unkind of you she said, half-petulantly,
' when you knew I should like
to have been home for dinner.'

Am I not always to speak the truth ? '
he asked.

Her only reply was to hurry on even
faster, with a slight gesture of irritation.

Take care. Miss Lingwood. Let me give
you a hand. That stone is loose.'

But she had already put her foot upon
the stone in question, and begun to mount
the low, half-broken wall, over which he
had vaulted, and was now turning to offer
her his assistance.

His hand was not taken, however; the
stone turned, and she would have fallen if
he had not caught her in his arms. She
gave a momentary struggle, as if to release
herself; then the laugh died away upon

her lips, and with a sudden cry he felt
her full weight hanging upon him.

Let me sit down,' she exclaimed, faintly ;
and he placed her gently upon the ground.

Her face was deadly white, and her eyes
closed for a minute. After a few moments,
however, they reopened, whilst he was bending
over her in his man's distracted horror of
a fainting fit ; and she endeavoured to smile.

'I'm all right,' she said, trying, to raise
herself into a sitting posture ; ' don't look
so frightened ! '

Pray lie still a minute longer ; you are
so white.'

'Feel white,' she said, laughing feebly.

Where did you hurt yourself ? '

It was my foot  that horrid stone. I'm
afraid I've sprained it.'

Well, you had better not try to walk
for a few minutes

She moved her foot, touched it, and then
looked up ruefully.

I don't believe I can walk at all. Oh,
what sliaU I do ? '

Barrington laughed with the spontaneous
audacity that comes natural to some men,
and is so rarely taken amiss by the fair
sex.

Why, if it comes to that, I would carry
you to Anacapri for sixpence ! You are
light enough.'

'Oh, it is too serious for a joke ! '

But, if you insist upon having a forfeited
beast of burden in preference, we can
soon get a donkey from the village.'

You will have to go and fetch it. Oh,
I'm so sorry to give all this trouble ! '

Perhaps I shall see the others, and they
can send us back one.'

He ran down the pathway, shouting
vigorously. But only the echoes responded
to his cry of, ' Wallace ! I say, Wallace ! '
and he was pausing in deliberation, unwilling
to leave her alone whilst he returned

to the village, and yet perceiving the
necessity of something being done at once,
when his face suddenly brightened at the
sight of a ragged young peasant plodding
towards him from the direction of the lighthouse.
Here was the very thing ! And in a
couple of minutes he had joined the man,
and in his easily-flowing, ungrammatical
Italian had explained his errand, and sent
the contains off post-haste, with the promise
of a liberal reward. Then he returned to
his companion, reporting his success, and
helping her to drag herself into a more comfortable
position against the little sheltering
wall. But her replies to his remarks grew
briefer and briefer, and presently, after a
pause, she suddenly exclaimed :

I can't bear it any longer ! '

Are you going to faint again ? ' he asked
in real terror, for she was almost whiter
than at first ; and at the words she laughed
hysterically.

No ; but my boot  it hurts me so
terribly. I can't get it off. I tried while
you were talking to that man, but my foot
is so swelled  '

Why didn't you tell me before ? ' he
asked, as he fished a clasp-knife out of his
pocket. ' Why, I could have relieved you
in a minute.' And he began hastily cutting
the buttons off, one by one.

Of course,' she said, ' I ought to have
known that a man always has a knife in his
pocket.' And as he proceeded to pull off
the boot as gently as possible, she set her
lips firmly together, and suppressed a cry.

It hurt,' he said, looking up at her and
keeping her foot for one moment in his
hand ; ' poor little foot ! ' And he laid it
down tenderly as he put the boot in his
pocket.

Nell made no reply. Probably she
realized that pity, and, under the circumstances,
even something not unlike a caress,

was admissible between friends. Believed
from the strain of the boot, she declared
the pain to be nothing, and became quite
cheerful.

To De Witt the period of waiting was
certainly no unpleasant time. To sit out
on a lonely hill-side, surrounded by wild
rocks, a foaming sea, and a many-coloured
sky, during that soft pause of comparative
stillness that so often accompanies the
dying oat of a stormy day  so to sit with
a pleasant companion, a beautiful girl,
beside him, was certainly no uncongenial
method of spending half-an-hour. The wind
had dropped rapidly the last hour, and it
was now almost calm.

Nell Logwood, perhaps still in a little
pain or weakened by her fainting, sat leaning
back more silent than before, but
smiling and interested as he talked to her,
her pale face looking very sweet in the
fading daylight. It seemed to De Witt,

whether true or not, that a new and unwonted
touch of softness pervaded the
atmosphere between them ; and he spoke
to her of things he had never named before
of personal thoughts and hopes, of the
little disappointments and trivialities that
make up the main sum of our lives, and
yet which, as a rule, wee keep to ourselves,
unless some such moment and companion
tempt us to break loose from an intuitive
reticence, by that insidious charm of wordless
interest, of silent sympathy.

When at length steps were heard upon
the stony path, and his messenger was
seen returning, followed by a donkey and a
donkey woman, it seemed to him as if the
man had fulfilled his errand almost too
quickly. He sprang up, however, and saw
that the sun had now really set, and that
it was as well for Nell Lingwood's wounded
foot that they had not been longer belated
on this rough uneven way.

She rose with the assistance of his hand.
If you will give me your arm, I can get
over the wall,' she said.

How ? ' he asked incredulously. ' How
will you climb with one foot ? '

I can hop,' she replied, laughing.

He did not attempt to offer his arm.
Even you cannot do the impossible,' he
said gravely. ' I shall carry you.'

And lifting her in his arms, he picked his
way carefully over the fallen stones, and
placed her upon the saddle. As he did so
he glanced for a moment into her face.
She was not angry as she gave him a quiet
Thank you.' Was there even a softer look
upon the beautiful features, or was it only
the effect of the little rosy flush that had
risen to her cheeks ?

He was silent for a few moments. He
had made a discovery. He loved this girl.
Perhaps he had already been in love with
her for some days  since he first saw her.

It was possible. But it was whilst holding
her in his arms that the conviction broke
upon him so surely, so suddenly. It was
only for a few seconds ; but he acknowledged
the fact, and it gave him food for
reflection.

'Signor,' said the peasant, edging up to
him on the narrow pathway, * I met
another lady and gentleman not far from
the village. And the lady was so tired,
she wanted us to let her have the donkey
to ride back to Capri ; but I told her we
could not, because it was for your Signora,
who had hurt her foot. So then they said
they were of the same party, and if they
had not been so tired, they should have
come back to help you. They lamented
greatly that the Signora should have hurt
herself.'

This diverted Barrington's thoughts, and

he laughingly translated the account to his

companion.

VOL. L K

Poor Blanche ! ' lie exclaimed. ' I don't
wonder she is tired ; I don't suppose she
has ever walked so far as this in her life
before. I feel mean to have deprived her
of perhaps the one donkey of Anacapri.'

Here they are ! ' exclaimed De Witt a
few moments later, as they turned the
corner into the village.

The pair were, in fact, seated upon the
grass by the roadside ; before them a
second donkey, with a side-saddle and an
attendant boy.

So you have managed to find another
beast for Miss Hopkins, I see,' remarked
De Witt, as the others rose quickly, perceiving
them.

Yes, we were lucky enough to meet
with it,' replied the young artist. ' I don't
know how we could have got on without,
for Miss Hopkins is quite done up. But
we couldn't make up our minds to go on
without you, we were both so anxious

about Miss Lingwood ; so we thought we
would wait here till you came up.'

*And all go home in disgrace together
added the little American. ' Oh, Nell dear,
ho 10 are you ? Is your foot bad ? '

I shall get over it,' laughed the other,
lightly ; whilst Barrington smiled to himself
at Wallace's ingenious remark.

His anxiety had been a decent excuse for
persuading Miss Hopkins into lengthening
a pleasant tete-astute walk by yet another
half-hour. He was amused, but not sardonic.
Who was he to laugh at any man
for being transparently, foolishly in love ?
The turn of each must come. Poor fellow I
it was a pity Wallace had set his heart
upon a girl who, according to her friend,
was not likely to accept the gift at its
full value.

It was almost if not quite dark when
at length the little procession paused at
the entrance to the hotel, and the two

K 2

men proceeded to help the girls off their
respective beasts. Nell's foot was quite
stiff, and she hobbled with difficulty down
the passage.

My word ! ' whispered Blanche in a
confiding aside to her companions, ' shan't
we all catch it now? Won't there be justa
chorus of "I told you so's" when she
comes limping in ! '

CHAPTER VI.

AX Unpopular MEMBER OF SOCIETY.

Self-love is not so vile a sin as self-forgetting.'

Shakespeare.

The breakfast-room was empty the next
morning when De Witt entered, and he
finished his met in solitude. The day was
bright and fine, and Wallace no doubt was
off to his studio ; whilst the ladies of the
Brereton party were, he supposed, too tired
to put in an appearance. He lingered
about some little time in hope of an opportunity
to inquire after Miss Lingwood's
sprained foot, and then went for a desultory
stroll with Waif.

AVhen he returned it was nearly lunchtime,
and most of the party were assembled

in the little salon. Nell herself, however
was not there, he saw at a glance ; and he
moved towards her mother to make his
inquiries.

Mrs. Brereton's kindly face wore a rather
worried expression, and De Witt felt sure
her husband had been nag-orinoj at her.

I'm afraid it's rather bad, thank you,
Captain De Witt,' she replied,  'a somewhat
severe sprain ; I don't think she will
be able to put her foot down for some days.'

Days ! ' echoed her husband snappishly ;
she will be lucky if she can walk in a
week ! And just when the bad weather
has broken up, and we might have got
away from the place.'

'Well, you know, Edward,' remarked his
wife, soothingly, ' we must have stayed a
couple of days longer for Eobert to see the
island.'

A couple of days ! Don't I tell you the
girl will be on the sofa for a week at least ? '

It is very unfortunate said De AVitt,
reflecting, as he spoke, upon the insincerity
of his words. ' One never knows when a
mishap of that sort may not happen.'

I told you all yesterday you were on
a fool's errand,' remarked the elder man
with irritation. * I knew some harm would
come of it. Through that storm, and such
an unfit distance ! I told the girls ; but
nobody ever listens to me.'

Oh, yes, they do, dear,' said Mrs.
Breretoti ; ' but young people will be young
people. And it might just as well have
happened any other day, you know.'

Probably she thought De Witt had borne
his scolding well, for she smiled in a friendly
manner towards him, and then called to a
young man who stood near with his hands
in his pockets, gazing out of the window.

Eobert, come here. I want to introduce
you to our friend. Captain De Witt. My
stepson, Mr. Brereton.'

The young man turned round and gave
first a sharp, scrutinizing glance, and then a
stiff nod to the other. He was of a short,
slight figure, and of sandy hair and complexion,
and his prevailing characteristic
mipht be said to be insignificance. His
eyes were his most salient point, for, small
and set closely together, they had a certain
air of penetration about them that was
more than half cunning ; and when you
looked closely into them, they too were
yellow, or as nearly that colour as human
eyes may be. He was dressed in a light
yellow suit, and gave Barrington altogether
the impression of a short piece of tow-rope
stuck up on end.

So this was Nell's step-brother  the
object of her uncontrollable dislike. Well,
it was quite possible that a more intimate
acquaintance with Mr. Robert Brereton
might cement a sympathy between them on
that point as well as others. He was not

charmed at first sight with his companion,
but he gave him a good-humoured nod and
word of greeting ; for it was not De Witt's
nature to be unfriendly without due cause
to any one.

But then he stood looking down upon
the little yellow man for a moment engrossed
in two reflections  the first a silent
pity for Nell afflicted with the burden of
such a connection, the second a silent
wonder how any man under thirty could
have had time to acquire so disagreeable
an expression of countenance.

He is an unmitigated little cad, poor
little chap ! ' he thought to himself ; asking
aloud, ' I suppose you had a first-rate
crossing this morning ? '

Well, I don't know about first-rate,'
replied the other ; ' we had plenty of
tossing. This Mediterranean is a beastly
sea enough, it seems to me.'

He subsided into silence, and began to

gaze out of the window again ; and De
Witt, feeling that he had done his duty
by the new-comer, strolled off to meet
Blanche Hopkins, who had just entered.

Tired ? I should just think I was ! ' she
exclaimed, in response to his queries. ' But
I'd do it all over again for the sake of
those rocks. And so would Nell, she says
sprained foot and all. What do I think
of Nell's foot? Well, I guess she'll be
dancing around again in a few days. But
my I what a fuss that old man does make
over it ! And so,' she whispered, ' the
paragon's come at last 1 Isn't he a beauty ?
Have you spoken to him ? Now he's here
there'll be an end of all our fun. He goes
poking around just like a ferret, does
Robert. I guess Nell's foot doesn't matter
now, for we shouldn't have got any more
nice walks.'

Miss Ling wood is not coming to lunch ? '
inquired Barrington.

No, I guess she won't try to come up
and down-stairs for a day or two. After
lunch ? Well, I don't know ; 1 don't see
why she shouldn't  this room's on the same
floor.'

Luncheon seemed to De Witt an unusually
long and dreary affair that day.
Nell's absence seemed to make an unaccountable
blank, and it was poor comfort
to find her step-brother installed in her
customary place beside himself. Mr. Robert
Brereton was not communicative ; probably
at no time was he remarkable for powers
of conversation ; and after the exchange of
one or two commonplaces, De Witt and he
made no further effort towards sociability.

Immediately after luncheon Mr. and Mrs.
Brereton started for a drive to Anacapri,
but their son did not accompany them ; and
glancing into the salon a few minutes later,
De Witt perceived him seated there with
a newspaper in his hand. This completely

jut to flight his own half form eel intention
of finishing his novel in the one
easy-chair afforded by that apartment ; and
whistling to Waif, he lit his cigar, and
dawdled out towards the Punta Niagara ;
after a while leaving the little platform
that commands so heavenly a view, and
clambering downwards nearer to the purple
sea, with its malachite bays and rings of
silver foam ; watching the restless sea birds,
and flinging pebbles against the hollowed
rocks. Presently, however. Waif pricked
his ears and gave a low growl, the faintest
of growls, for which he instantly apologized
by lowering his head and lying down with
an air of meaning nothing at all, and
having made a trifling mistake in manners.
Glancing upwards, Barrington saw a slight
figure on the little path above him  a
figure in a yellow suit, with eyeglass fixed
into his short-sighted eyes. The figure stood
still for several seconds, scanning the view ;

then went forward upon the rocky pathway,
not perceiving De Witt and his companion.
And after a few moments the latter rose,
and followed by his dog, reascended the
hill and sauntered slowly homewards.

He had scarcely seated himself, novel in
hand, and Waif at his feet, in front of
the open window of the now deserted salon,
when the door softly opened, and a pretty
face full of mystery peered in, and gave a
glance around.

That's all right,' she remarked, sotto
voce ; ' he seems out of the way ! '

'Yes,' said Barring-ton, 'he's safe enough
for some time ; he's 2:one towards the
Fariglioni rocks.'

Blanche Hopkins laughed gleefully.

Ain't you a smart young man T she
asked. ' Well, now that the coast's clear 
for I don't count you  '

Of course not,' said Barrington, ' I never
count.'

I shall go and fetch in Nell. What do
you say to that ? '

I say, by all means ! ' he replied, jumping
up with alacrity.

What's the good of moping in a bedroom
all day ?' continued the young lady.
I believe that old woodchunk wants to
punish her for her walk yesterday. She's
not sick, you know.'

De Witt laughed aloud.

'That old what? Oh, Miss Hopkins,
what an invaluable vocabulary is yours ! '

'well, I'm pretty smart, I guess, when
it comes to abusing any one ! ' she remarked,
placidly. *Now, Captain De Witt, you get
the couch ready ; and when you hear me
open that door, come and give her your
arm, and we'll get her in between us.'

In another minute or two the doorway
indicated  which was that of Miss Ling-wood's
room  opened, and Nell appeared,
framed within it, laughing softly as she

hung Oil to her little friend's frail support.
It was an easier matter when De Witt's
firm arm had been substituted ; and in a
few moments more she had limped into
the salon, and was comfortably established
upon the sofa.

The girl's face was still a little pale, and
she acknowledged to a bad night ; but
when De Witt began some self-reproaching
on the score of her injured foot, she declared
that it had not hurt her  much.

By the bye,' she remarked, ' I think you
have my boot still, Captain De Witt. 1
am sorry you should have had to carry it
all the way home.'

Somehow Barrington had forgotten to
return the boot.

It loss a great weight,' he said gravely ;
so very large.'

And Blanche laughed.

Here are the buttons,' he added, bringing
them one by one out of his waistcoat pocket.

What a careful young man ! ' exclaimed
Blanche. ' Quite an old bachelor,' she
added, looking in his face to see if he
appreciated the joke.

This is much pleasant than the bedroom,'
remarked Nell, as her friend drew
a low chais near the couch, and leant her
head against it ; whilst Waif laid an apologetic
lick upon a slender hand which she
stretched out towards him.

Isn't it ? ' asked Blanche. ' If only no
one else will come in  no one else, unless
it's Mr. Wallace. We don't mind Mr.
Wallace, do we ? '

Not in the least. Some of us rather
like him,' said Barrington, who had established
himself comfortably in a chair upon
the other side.

Nell seemed in a silent mood ; but there
was no want of friendliness about her
silence.

Suppose you read aloud to us. Captain

De Witt ? ' remarked Miss Hopkins.  I
feel sure you're a first-rate reader.'

Should you like it ? ' lie asked, turning
towards the invalid ; and meeting her eyes
for the first time that morning, with something
of an effort.

There is nothing I love more,' she
replied.

This settled the matter, and he rose.

What shall it be ? ' he inquired. ' Poetry
or prose ? '

Whichever you like ; poetry, if you
have any with you.'

He went to his room, returning with a
small volume in his hand.

I don't fancy you will know this man's
name,' he observed. ' He is a new man,
but I think he has a touch of the real fire
in him.'

The two girls appeared to think so too,

as, re-seating himself, he proceeded to read

aloud in a quiet rich voice, that expressed a
VOL. L L

perfect understanding with and sympathy
for his author.

Both of them begged for another when
the first  a long poem, a sort of parable
of life  was ended.

I am glad you like him,' said De Witt
simply (unconscious how much of his
hearers' appreciation was due to his owen
effective rendering). ' Here is another,
shorter but more sentimental. You must
excuse that  a poet to live must be sentimental
 and metaphysical.'

1 like it,' said the American girl.

In the middle of this poem Wallace came
in, but the reader did not pause ; and with
a bright smile of general greeting, the
young artist dropped into a seat and joined
the little circle.

A hot discussion arose when at length
De Witt closed his book.

The fellow doesn't know anything about
true love,' exclaimed Wallace boldly; 'he

seems to think it possible to love two
people at the same time

Isn't that possible  to some natures ? '
asked De Witt, to draw him out.

Of course not. A feeble creature who
can do that isn't worthy of the name of
man  or woman 1 '

Yet a good many of Anthony Trollope's
heroes are guilty of it,'

Hang Anthony Trollope's heroes ! So
they are, weak, washy sort of specimens 
many of them. You agree with me, don't
you. Miss Hopkins ? ' he asked eagerly.

'Well, I was just trying to make up my
mind. I knew a case of a young man at
home who did like that. He lived in
Chicago ; and he had been a long time
acquainted with a young lady there, and
felt like being in love with her. But one
day he went up to Louisville on a visit, and
there he met a beautiful girl, who just
turned his head, and he made her an offer

L 2

the same week. Well, when he got home,
he met his old flame again, and she seemed
to think it was all settled between them,
and it made him feel bad, particularly when
he thought over how nice she was, and how
many years he'd been real fond of her. He
began to think he'd made a mistake about
the other girl and been a fool, and that after
all he didn't really care about her as much ashe
had fancied. So, as he was an honourable
young man, he just took the train and
went ofi" to Louisville to tell her so, and to
eat humble pie. But when he got there,
he found she was so much lovelier than he
expected, that he felt more in love with her
than ever, and couldn't manage to say it.
So he went back engaged to her ; and he
didn't like it at all, for as soon as ever he
returned there was the old one smilin
around and quite unconscious, and getting
her former influence over him again. It
wasn't only that he felt like being a sneak :

lout he was real miserable, not knowing
which he loved the best'

'How did it end?' asked Do Witt,
enjoying the artist's protective countenance
of disgust.

Well, it got settled for him at last this
way. The Louisville girl's brother heard of
the young lady in Chicago, and called upon
him to ask what he meant. So the young
man said he only wished he could tell him
what he meant ; for that he couldn't makeup
his own mind. Then the brother went
at him like a tiger, called him a low sneak,
and wanted to knock him down, and they
had a fight. And that settled the matter ;
for of course my friend couldn't marry the
oriel whose brother had fought him.'

I don't believe he was any friend of
yours,' exclaimed Wallace hotly ; ' and anyway,
he was a poor pitiful cur, that deserved
his licking ! '

'Well, he's married the other one now,'

she said complacently ; *' and they get on
very well together

I don't envy her her husband,' remarked
Wallace.

If people knew everything about each
other,' said Nell Lingwood vaguely, 'perhaps
very few of them would marry.'

That sounds a pessimist remark, Miss
Lingwood,' said Barrington ; whilst the
artist broke out in his vigorous, out spoken
way.

I don't believe a word of it ! ' he said.
There are plenty of honest men and
women in the world, whatever poets and
preachers may think.'

I agree with you, Mr. Wallace,' said
Blanche Hopkins, with her frank, bright
smile ; ' everybody isn't so bad as they say,
by any means. Look at us four now 
ain't we good sort of people ? There's not
one of us would do a dirty trick, would
we V

Not one of us echoed Wallace firmly ;
whilst De Witt and Miss Lingwood both
burst out lauo'hincr.

The artist's composure was more than
restored.

'How jolly it is here!' he exclaimed.
Isn't it a snug little party ? It's almost
as good as another walk.'

He had scarcely finished speaking when
the door opened slowly, and a face looked
in, probably attracted by the peal of merry
laughter. If that were the case, however,
it was devoid of sympathy offer the laughers.
On the contrary, Mr. Eobert Lingwood's
short-sighted eyes peered round with a
disgusted scrutiny that was not flattering
to the quartette beneath his inspection.

Having satisfied himself as to their

o

individuality, he proceeded to follow his
face into the room ; and a pause immediately
ensued in the conversation.

You seem very merry here,' he remarked

shortly, seeing that no one else offered up
an observation.

We were very merry said Blanche
recklessly, careless of the accentuated word.

I thought he observed, after another
pause, turning towards his step-sister, his
temper apparently not improved by the fiir
American's innuendo, ' that you were going
to keep your room to-day ? '

Did you ? ' she said with indifference.

And Wallace, as he rose and passed De
Witt's chair, could not resist his almost
inaudible consent  ' Score No. 2 ! '

Barrington rose also, perhaps to hide a
smile, though in fact he felt angry enough
with the fellow for coming in to disturb so
sociable a party as theirs had been. He
was beginning already, this first day, to
experience a growing dislike of young
Brereton, quite unusual to his easy-going
nature ; and as he strolled out of the room,
accepting Wallace's invitation to take a turn

outside, lie nodded assent to the other's unvarnished
criticism  ' Pestering little brute ! '

Meanwhile the brute in question was
standing before the salon window, giving
his opinion upon men and matters to his
step-sister. Somehow, in the three or four
minutes that had elapsed since he entered,
the room had cleared itself ; even Blanche
Hopkins had deserted her friend, and there
was no obstacle in the way of the young
man offering a little unpalatable advice.

Who's that fellow ? ' he asked grimly, as
Wallace and De Witt filed out together.

The last ? That's a young artist, Mr.
Wallace.'

No, I don't mean him. I mean the
big, dandy fellow, who thinks so much of
himself.'

I thought you had been introduced to
him ? Captain De Witt.'

Of course I know his name, but that's
nothing. Where does he come from ? '

Perhaps you might find oat from the
visitor's book.'

You are all so mighty thick with him ;
your mother introducing him to me as " our
friend," and all that sort of thing.'

I believe he is a cousin of Sir Simon's 
down in Essex.'

Cousin ! A cousin means anything.
Just like every man's a captain nowadays.'


Every man isn't a gentleman,' remarked
Nell, with half-conscious emphasis. ' But if
you feel so much interest in the matter,
why don't you go to him and ask him for
his credentials ? '

He's just the cut of the swell adventurer.;
I know his style, and have a
good mind to tell him so.'

He's just the cut of a man who would
know how to resent impertinence, so I
wouldn't advise you to try it on.'

Look here, Nell, I never saw such fools

as you women. I should have thought
that you had had enough of those sort of
fellows.'

What sort of fellows ? ' she demanded,
raising herself on her elbow and flushing
angrily.

You know well enough  men who run
after a girl because she's money.'

You are making two slight mistakes,'
she said, with the dangerous calm often
preceding a storm. * In the first place, the
fellow in question doesn't run after me ; and
in the second, he doesn't even know I have
money  I believe.'

Doesn't he ? Trust him ! ' sneered her
companion. * And as to making up to
you, do you think I have no eyes in my
head ? '

It would be no loss to anybody but
yourself if you hadn't,' she retorted; 'for
you never see anything pleasant out of
them.'

He was disconcerted for a moment, but
presently continued :

'Do you think I didn't see the pretty
picture as I came in just now?'

It was a very pretty picture till you
spoilt it, as you do everything you come
near. Did you see how your agreeable
presence drove every one out of the room ? '

Yes, I did,' he retorted. ' It isn't so
easy to humbug a silly girl before her
brother.'

My brother !  never, thank God ! ' she
exclaimed, with a bitterness that surprised
even herself. * I could never have had the
ill-luck to have such a brother as you,
Robert Brereton ! '

You are very polite,' he said, roused at
last to a sullen anger. ' It would serve you
right if my father and I were to leave you
to the consequences of your folly.'

I wish to heaven you would ! ' she exclaimed
passionately. 'You both poison

my very life with suspecting evil in everyone.
Why mayn't I ever be allowed to
exchange a friendly word without your
horrid low suggestions ? '

A friendly word ! ' he repeated. ' That
fellow doesn't go in for friendship  he isn't
such a fool.'

He does. But why should I talk over
people with you ? You are incapable of
understanding anything but your own
vulgar ideas. Oh, Eobert Brereton,' and
she turned towards him with crimson
cheeks and sparkling eyes, ' what a poor
creature you are ! I wish I had never
seen you ; I should have been a happier
woman.'

'You would have been a deluded and
heart-broken one,' he responded, as he left
the room, a little cowed by her anger.

Meanwhile Barrington had returned from
his stroll with Wallace, and was taking a
little boot out of his coat-pocket, and looking

at it with an expression half-affectionate,
half-amused. He smiled at himself even
as he detected his own lurking desire to
keep that little boot in his possession.
There was so much character about it ; he
fancied he could have picked it out from
amongst many others as Nell's. It was such
a determined, vigorous little boot, naughty
looking even, although so prettily shaped,
exactly like Nell herself, he thought. He
was not a poet, nor a Frenchman, so he did
not think of kissing it ; but he laughed unconsciously
as he rang his bell, and desired
Assent to take it with his apologies to the
signorina.

CHAPTEE Il

'we promised to be friends

They have most power to hurt us whom we love ;
We lay our sleeping lives within their arms.'

Beaumont and Fletcher.

This was not the only occasion on which
De Witt was made to read aloud to his
companions. It became, in fact, almost a
regular institution the next few days for
the little quartette to be formed in the
salon, or more often on the balcony opening
outside, and for Barrington to be voted
into the presidential chair, and supplied
with a suitable book. As Blanche remarked
confidentially to her friend (and
possibly also to Wallace), they could not
sit talking all day long, and she for her

part certainly did not intend to go in for a
course of tefe-a-fete walks with the paragon.
Barrington too seemed to have pretty well
exhausted the expeditions of the island, and
was generally ready enough to be at his
post after lunch. On these occasions Mrs.
Brereton now always acted as chaperon  a
position in which she was admirably fitted
to give satisfaction, inasmuch as she was
very good-natured, very simple-minded, and
rather sleepy. None of the four objected
in the least to her presence, and her admiration
of De Witt's good reading was little
impaired by the fact that it usually had the
effect of closing her eyes.

Meanwhile the weather continued clear,
and Mr. Lingwood continued cross. He
grew indeed crosser day by day, and his
irritability increased visibly once or twice,
when he happened to be a spectator of the
reading party. He was, however, powerless
to prevent it, and no one supposed that his

ili-temper had any other root than the
unavoidable delay caused in their plans.
Mr. Robert Lingwood also, if he had
scarcely created a favourable impression on
his arrival, certainly did not succeed in
increasing his popularity. He appeared to
every one in the light of an unsociable
person ; but to De Witt he was barely civil.
This fact seemed to trouble the latter but
little, although perhaps it mildly astonished
him ; but its demonstration more than once
brought a smile of peculiar meaning to the
rosy lips of Blanche Hopkins.

Truth to say, De Witt was not at this
time in a mood to trouble himself particularly
about the demeanour of any but one
person. So long as that person were of
disposition kind and gentle and friendly,
little on his part was desired elsewhere.
For the first time in his seven-and-twenty
years he was seriously in love. Small
affairs of course there had been  little

VOL. I. ' M

stirrings of the pulse and feelings, such as
come to all men and women at times
when young ; but never till now a stirring
which was not small, and feelings which
were strangely, unaccountably deep and
absorbing.

Why should they be there now ? "Who
can say? Nell Lingwood was beautiful
and sincere and lovable ; but so had been
many others. Why should it be she ?  a
question fate must answer. His hour had
come.

Yet, had he ever before met any woman
so full of strange, interesting contradictions,
so winning in her smiles, so haughty in her
coldness ; any face which in its pure proud
young beauty so mirrored and reflected a
quick intelligence, a sensitive heart ?

Nell was a very charming companion this
week : she was so gay, so genial, so open-hearted
; her true eyes looked so fully
into Barrington's with a frank liking that

sometimes brought him misgivings, while it
could not but give him pleasure.

Thus several days passed, and the girl's
foot mended rapidly. She was presently
able to limp from room to room, and then to
make her way up and down-stairs ; and there
was no longer any reason for the Bretons
to delay their departure on her account.

Yet none the less did it seem to strike
De Witt with a sense of sudden upheaval, 
a personal earthquake, so to speak,  when
one afternoon, entering the little salon as
usual, he found Mr. Brereton settling final
arrangements with the landlord, preparatory
to a start by the next day's boat. He
moved on into the balcony, where the two
girls stood side by side, gazing towards the
diamond-covered sea.

Is it true you all leave tomorrow '? ' he
asked ; and his tone had not quite its usual
easy ring.

isn't it a laity ? ' replied Blanche. 'I

M 2

don't believe we shall be half as jolly at
Sorrento as we've been here

 Are you sorry to goV he asked, turning
towards her companion.

Yes, of course I am  we have had such
a pleasant time of it she said readily ;
yet it seemed to him with a shade of
constraint about her tone, as if it were a
little forced.

There was a slight cloud upon her brow
too, as if something had occurred to annoy
her ; and her eyes followed Blanche, who was
sauntering slowly away, with an expression of
annoyance and perplexity. But Barrington,
man-like in his partial powers of observation,
did not notice either of these two trifles.

What will become of our friendship ? '
he asked in a lower tone, trying to look
into her face. But she turned it away, and
for a moment gave no answer.

Then she responded lightly, as it seemed
to him  almost indifferently.

What becomes of most friendships ? ' she
inquired with a short laugh. ' If people meet
again they are sometimes renewed; but they
mostly die of inanition, don't they ? '

Something about her manner perplexed
and hurt him ; but it might be his own
awkwardness, and he felt impelled to go on
now.

But what,' he continued, in the same
low, quiet tone, Mf the friendship be
already dead, and changed to something
else ? '

Mr. Brereton's step sounded upon the
balcony, and she moved hastily away.

metaphysics are not in my line,' she
said quickly, and there was a sudden flush
upon her brow.

The next morning the Breretons departed,
and were escorted to the pier by Wallace
and De Witt, one on each side of Blanche
Hopkins, who preferred walking down with

the gentlemen of the party to making a
third in the one springless vehicle of Capri.

I shouldn't wonder if you came over
to-day too,' she remarked archly to De
Witt

No more should I,' he returned. * I
shall very likely follow you in a couple of
hours in a sailing-boat.'

Not another word of a private nature
had been exchanged between himself and
Miss Lingwood since the previous afternoon,
and the calm farewells on both sides
were in marked contrast to the transparent
emotion displayed by the young artist ashe
parted from his idol. Mrs. Brereton
bade both young men a cordial adieu,
remarking that she supposed they should
soon have the pleasure of seeing De Witt
again  an observation which drew upon
her the heavy scowl of her stepson, her
husband being at the moment too busy
fussing over the luggage to hear her ; and

the boat put off to the steamer, Wallace
being left lamenting and waving his handkerchief
in response to the repeated salutations
of the fair Blanche.

The afternoon of the same day was drawing
to a close as a small rowing-boat passed
over the same track from Capri to the
mainland, bearing its two passengers, a
man and a dog. The dog sat blinking in
the sunshine, and sleepily watching the dip
of the oars into the clear malachite water ;
but the man was sitting in his shirt-sleeves,
rowing with a long vigorous stroke that
brought the perspiration to the brow of
his more lethargic southern comrade.

Barrington had been divided between a
departure on that day or the morrow, but
finally elected to be off at once, telling
himself that the cause of this decision was
the irritating repetition of poor Wallace's
refrain.

Blanche Hopkins was undoubtedly a

pretty girl and a nice girl, and he was
the last person in the world to deny the
fact ; but still a constant and mournful
reiteration, clothed in different forms of
speech, of this interesting truth was enough
to tire out any man, who for the space of
several hours could not escape from the
reiterated.

So, with a hearty wring of the hand, and
mutual kindly wishes, De Witt parted from
the artist, and found himself with his portmanteau
sailing calmly over that silver sea
which had so roughly treated him, on his
last voyage. He paid but little attention
this time, however, to the passing scenery,
or the conversation of the boatmen, for his
mind was full.

The question upon which it was at work
was a somewhat vexing and perplexing
one ; nevertheless, before he had reached
his destination he had solved it to his
own satisfaction.

He had prone too far now to retract : the
greatest wish of his life, as it seemed to
him, was at stake, and must be settled one
way or the other.

Her conduct yesterday had been enigmatical,
wounding ; but it was possible that
she had not meant it to be so. She was at
all times a girl somewhat difficult to understand
 her moods were variable ; but a
heart tender and earnest existed somewhere,
concealed beneath her many eccentricities,
and it had sometimes seemed to him that
he had not failed to touch it. In any case,
if it were not so, he had better know the
truth ; he was too much in earnest to be
debarred by the fear of a repulse.

Having made up his mind, De Witt felt
once more a man, and almost at his ease.
He would seek her out at her hotel,
and, so soon as the opportunity could be
found or made, would ask her plainly to
become his wife. He was not a rich man,

but he had enough to support a moderate
establishment, and at some future day, perhaps
not very far off, would be in a far
better position than now.

But Fate brought sooner than he expected
the opportunity before him  laid it,
indeed, as one may say, at his feet. He
had scarcely landed on the little stone
causeway, and given instructions regarding
his hotel, before he became aware of a
solitary figure seated at some little distance
upon the pebbly shore. The figure had
its head turned away from him, and had
evidently not perceived either boat or
passenger ; but De Witt had little difficulty
in recognizing Nell Lingwood.

He paused a moment ; then sending on
the porter with his luggage, strode quickly
across the narrow strand. She appeared to
be deep in thought, for she did not turn
her head until he was close upon her, and
then she started and changed colour visibly.

It seemed almost for a moment as if she
thought of rising and hurrying from him ;
but the next she forced a smile to her lips,
and greeted him with an easy manner.

Why, Captain de Witt, over already !
You are not long after us

No he said gravely, standing beside
her ; ' I did not mean to be

His manner discomposed her, and she
could think of nothing to say for a moment.
Then she looked up laughing, but without
meeting his gaze.

*You should have spared us all those
harrowing good-byes,' she remarked lightly,
if you meant to reappear so soon.'

Were they harrowing ? ' he asked in the
same tone ; ' they seemed to me very superficial
ones.'

Surely,' she said quickly, *you cannot
say that of our friend the artist and of
Blanche ? Their parting was enough to
move a sensitive heart to tears, was it not ? '

Barrington perceived her desire to avoid
deep waters, but it did not move him from
his resolution ; on the contrary, it fixed
him in a more dogged determination.

Don't let us talk of Wallace and Miss
Hopkins,' he said ; ' I want to talk of you 
and myself.'

She turned away with the air of a
petulant child.

/ don't,' she said ; ' I would rather talk
of them.'

The blood was rising to his cheeks, but it
was too late to put him off now. If she
cared nothing at all for him, then her voice,
her eyes, her whole self had lied to him this
last pleasant week  so he told himself.

You had better let me say what I have
to say,' he remarked gently. * If I am
wrong, it will only hurt myself, not you.
But I think you must know what it is.
We promised to be friends, did we not,
Nell?'

Yes she said, half inarticulately, her
face still turned away.

'Nell, I promised always to speak the
truth to you. I can be a friend no looser
I must be something more. Will you
tell me that I may ? '

She made a gesture which he did not
understand ; and he knelt beside her on the
shingle, trying to see into her averted face.

Can you not give me a little hope ?
You have guessed it, have you not  how
much I care for you ? '

Then she suddenly turned towards him,
and the expression of her features startled
him. Pain and anger, distress and perplexity
were written upon them, and her
lips quivered.

Why do you speak to me in that way ? '
she asked, as it seemed to him indignantly.
Why can't you let things be as they were ? '

Because it is impossible,' he replied. ' I
must know one way or the other. It is

surely no sin to love you. Do you dislike
me so much ? ' lie added quickly.

'I liked you as a friend  very much.'

Can you never like me as something more ? '

She gave a movement of repulsion.

I believed in you ! ' she exclaimed, half
passionately. ' But when you talk in that
way, I think I hate you ! '

He rose suddenly.

I apologize. In what way do my words
offend ? '

They transgress the covenant of friendship.'


Her tone had regained its calm, and was
cold and formal.

For a moment he glanced at her half
incredulously ; then, with a bitter smile, he
lifted his cap.

The offence shall not be repeated,' he
said, and he turned and moved away.

At the commencement of the ascent he
abruptly encountered Blanche Hopkins.

Oh, Captain De Witt, I am going to
Nell! Is she there?'

He pointed silently to where the solitary
figure sat motionless upon the shore, and
Blanche, glancing up, caught sight of an
unusual expression in the blue eyes.

I hope you are coming to stay here,
Captain De Witt ? ' she said.

No, Miss Hopkins, I am off to-day to
Castellamare, and shall hope to sleep) in
Naples.'

I'm sorry, very sorry. I hope we shall
see you again some day. Captain De Witt.
I shall never forget our pleasant times at
Capri.'

He laughed, but there was little mirth in
his lauorh.

o

Pleasant things sometimes disagree with
people, don't they ? ' he said, as he took her
outstretched hand.

'Good-bye,' she said, with a cordial warmth
in her manner ; ' I wish you happiness and

success in your future life, for I think you
deserve it.'

Do people always get their deserts, do
you think ? ' he asked, with another hard
smile, as he shook her hand and moved on.

A few moments later, Blanche had flung
herself down upon the stones beside her
friend.

Captain De Witt is gone,' she remarked
tentatively.

Is he ? ' was the laconic reply.
Did you send him off ? '

I fail to understand you.'

It's clear enough what I mean, I guess,'
retorted Blanche uncivilly. ' You can't
deceive me, Nell ; I know he came up hereto
propose to you.'

If you know everything, why do you
ask?'

And you refused him ? Did you,
Nell ? '

Her companion was silent.

Blanche's anger rose.

Well, Nell Ling wood, I always thought
you a fool about men, but you are a bigger
fool to-day even than I gave you credit for !
You don't deserve to have such another
chance  a man kind and handsome and
well-bred ! '

The other turned upon her with flashing
eyes.

If I am such a fool, had you not better
leave me alone to my folly ? '

Yes,' retorted Blanche promptly ; ' and
I guess I couldn't leave you in worse
company ! '

And she rose and walked away in an
anger that, even before she had regained the
hotel, was beginning to turn to pity for the
companion, whose position she understood
and commiserated in her warm little heart.

Meanwhile Nell Lino-wood sat on motionless,
her hands clasped about her knees,
her eyes fixed upon the far-reaching sea.

VOL. I. N

For an hour or more she so remained, still
as a carved statue, impassive as a statue
also in expression, save for the pallor that
crept more and more over the delicately-cut
features, the oval cheek.

The offence shall not be repeated
De Witt's last words kept ringing in her
ears, recurring again and. again like a
wearying chime of bells ; and again and
again she saw the look of pain, of astonishment,
of wounded pride upon the face bent
down to hers.

What had she done ? Was it true that
she had of her own doing put away a great
happiness from her  driven away for a
mere petulant whim, for the mere indulgence
of an irritated pride, the one man
she had ever felt inclined to love ? She
was indeed, as Blanche had said, a fool  a
cruel, contemptible fool ! He had not gone
three yards from her when she recognized
the truth  that she would have given all

she possessed to recall him. But it was
too late  it would always be too late now.
The offence would never be repeated.'
Of course not. She had made her own
burden, and she must bear it. She had
spurned him from her, and he was gone 
for ever.

She sat on long, with fixed and stupid
eyes that saw nothing, and stiff limbs
that had no energy to move homewards.
One idea and one thought only possessed
her, body and soul.

When at length she rose, and slowly
dragged herself up the steep pathway to
the town, there was a strange soreness in
her heart such as she had never experienced
before, and a strained look upon her features,
which, strive as she might to conceal
it, betrayed something of her secret to her
keen-eyed friend. But never a word passed
between them, then or later, upon the
subject.

N 2

Happy is it for those of us who have
never learnt that bitter lesson of life's
teaching  that the deepest of all the craves
of hope are those dng by our own hands.

CHAPTER VIII.

MISS Hopkins Recalls THE PAST.

The merest unrewarded thin;

'o>

Dropped into this my solitude,

Fills all my soul with echoing

Of dreams  as in some haunted wood,

A pebble's plash into a spring

Is by the circling air renewed.'  John Payne.

More than three months had elapsed.
It was now towards the end of July, and
the London season was beginnings to show
symptoms of a sure decay. The streets of
the metropolis were hot and dusty ; even
the parks had lost their first cool freshness
in the long; drought, and none but the
most inveterate season-mongers  needy
adventurers on the look-out for an heiress,
or dowagers with a numerous brood of

chickens to dispose of  but looked forward
with relief to their approaching release from
the social strain of exhausted atmospheres
and unceasing small-talk, and escape
towards the refreshing scent of country
meadows, or the musical sound of the
falling waves.

But if London had been hot, Italy
naturally had been worse ; if her streets
were full of a suffocating dust, and her
parks parched for want of rain, the streets
and public gardens of Florence had suffered
still more. The Lung' Arno was a perfect
furnace, and even the Casting proved an
insufficient refuge from the pitiless rays of
a southern sun ; and De Witt had been
forced to fly and take refuge on his native
soil. He had no intention of remaining
any length of time in England, however ;
he should probably go south again next
winter,  unless indeed he went north instead,
 but for the moment he had formed

no Other plans, and it seemed the easiest
thing to do. He felt that he was leading
an aimless sort of existence, and it did not
please him. He had half a mind to go out
to Africa in the autumn, and see a little
wild life and sport for himself  or possibly
to South America, to have a look at
primeval forests and Mexican relics.

Meanwhile, attracted, like every Englishman
on returning home, to the metropolis,
he was spending an idle week or two in his
old lodgings, seeing what was to be seen, and
renewing acquaintance with former friends.
He did not seem to have any very special
interest in all this, and he sometimes wondered
to himself how blase he had grown
of late. Perhaps that episode at Capri had
a little changed and hardened him, as such
episodes are apt to do. It is not altogether
good for a man to be disappointed in his ideal.

He told himself that he did not regret
Miss Lingwood any longer  that he was

not one to cry over spilt milk, or think
twice over a girl who had refused him ; and
it was perhaps true. The sting lay in the
fact that she had, by her conduct, lowered
his standard of the truth of womanhood,
and forced him to think lightly of one
whom he had mentally endowed with every
feminine grace and virtue.

His thoughts were perhaps not far out
of this direction, as he stood one morning;
before a picture in one of the rooms of the
Royal Academy. It was a sketch taken
in Capri a scene he knew well, and where
he had more than once wandered in company
with Nell Lingvvood and her friend 
a view of wild rocks and wilder sea, faithfully
represented. And De Witt felt himself
once more on the little island ; the sea
breezes were playing round him, and Nell's
voice was in his ear.

For the moment the crowd around him
faded and had no existence ; and he turned

with a visible start when a pleasant little
voice, with a Yankee accent, sounded his
name, and some one touched him lightly on
the elbow. It seemed strange to discover
Blanche Hopkins standing beside him ;
and De AVitt's eyes involuntarily glanced
around, with a sort of vague expectation
of seeing Nell herself not far off. But
Blanche was alone, as she speedily informed
him.

I'm with other friends now,' she said,
avoiding by a sort of instinct the names
of her former companions ; 'I'm stopping
in London with them. But they've been
here already so often that they didn't want
to come again, so I just came off by myself.
I'm so glad to meet you again, Captain De
Witt.'

*Anal I you,' he replied, cordially.

You looked at me as if I were a ghost
at first ! ' she remarked, with her merry
laugh. ' But I don't wonder you were

interested by that picture. Isn't it true ?
I've been back and back to it again and
again. That's how I happened upon you.
Have you been here before ? '

Once or twice,' said Barrington.

Well, then, I want you should just take
me round, and show me which are the best
pictures  considered the best of the year 
if it doesn't trouble you too much.'

Not at all ! I shall like it. But I can
only tell you which are the most thought
of  I am not enough of an artist to be sure
they are the best really.'

That's enough for me,' she replied.

Blanche was faultlessly dressed, and looking
extremely pretty ; and De Witt, in
escorting her round, experienced the somewhat
empty satisfaction of a man conscious
that he is regarded with envious eyes as a
lucky fellow by most of his fellow-men.
At the end of about half-an-hour, however,
she declared herself tired of pictures.

and anxious to escape from the crowded
heat of the building.

I've had enough of it,' she said ; ' I
think I'll go home now. I guess I'll walk
back across the park. It isn't far.'

In that case said Barrington, ' I will
walk with you, if I may.'

The park seemed a delicious refuge after
the noisy broiling streets ; and the two
lingered slowly in the shade, by degrees
finding themselves once more picking up
the threads of intimacy woven during merry
hours at Capri. When at length De Witt
proposed a short rest on a bench beneath
the trees, Blanche made no objection ; and
their talk insensibly drifted back to those
past times. De Witt might have fancied
the subject would be one of constraint to
him, but it was not so. Blanche was so
cordial, so natural, so unconstrained herself,
that by degrees he fell into the same mood.

The Breretons, she informed him, were

now at their country house ; they had returned
to England early in May, and after
spending only three weeks in town had
moved on northwards. She herself parted
from them at Siena, remaining in that
interesting old town with some newly-made
acquaintances several weeks longer. In
fact, she had landed but a few days ago,
rejoining the friends with whom she was
to stay until, a few months later, she
returned to America.

We never had such good times again
after wee left Capri,' she remarked.

How was that ? ' he asked, after a pause.

I don't know. Robert Brereton spoilt
everything ; and Nell didn't seem to have
the same spirit for things.'

Did Miss Lingwood's foot get quite well
again ? ' he inquired, wondering at himself
for caring to speak again about this girl.

'Oh, it wasn't her foot  that was well
enough ; it was her spirits. You see,

Captain De Witt, I think we all quarrelled
at Sorrento  which isn't inspiriting now, is
it ? ' And she laughed a little.

I should think it would be difficult to
quarrel with you  you have too sweet a
temper,' remarked Barrington, a little
absently.

Oh, no, it isn't ! it's not sweet at all
when I'm mad. And I am sometimes mad
with Nell;

He was silent; but after another short"
pause she continued, playing with the
fringe of her parasol, 

I'm sorry for Nell, real sorry for her
sometimes. She's got a fine nature. Captain
De Witt, but it's been warped by that stepfather
and brother of hers. They are both
poor, mean sort of natures, those two.'

Barrington assented silently, and she
went on :

It's an awful drawback to a girl to
have money, and to have people round her

always dinning it into her ears that 
that'

That every man who pays her any
attention is a fortune-hunter 1 ' he asked
with perfect calmness, but with a slight curl
upon his lip.

Well, it isn't only that. But she meets
with so many who are it  don't you see ?
And if she has no one with a pound of
common sense to help her, what is a girl

to do r

It is certainly a hard case,' he replied in
the same tone.

It's quite different in America,' she
continued ; ' it's all very well to talk of the
"almighty dollar," and that sort of thing,
I guess it is almighty, and in other
countries as well as America  but we make
our money quicker, and we don't think as
much about losing it. My father's a rich
man himself,  made his fortune in oil,  and
I'm his only child ; but things don't afflict

me as they do Nell. I shouldn't care one
red cent if I did find a man making up tome
for the sake of my money  I should
soon find him out, I oruess, and laugh at
him. And it wouldn't make me afraid of
the honest ones afterwards. But I guess if
poor Nell ever thought of taking a fancy to
any one, that old Brereton would do his
best to poison her mind against him.'

'Why?' asked De Witt shortly, half
annoyed with himself for the query which
politeness seemed to require.

Well, you see, there's a very pretty
allowance for Nell, which they would lose if
she were to marry. And I don't think either
Mr. Brereton or his precious son Robert are
particularly fond of parting with money
when they have once got a good hold of it.'

Mrs. Brereton is not like that ? '

Oh, no, she isn't mercenary. But then
any one can see she isn't over-wise  even
her daughter.'

Barrington made no reply, and a long
silence ensued, which Blanche presently
broke by jumping up.

Tm afraid I've talked scandal, some,'
she remarked ; ' you must please forget it
all, Captain De Witt.'

Which of course was the last thing she
intended him to do.

He made no response save by smiling ;
and as they walked on, their conversation
turned to other subjects.

Are you remaining long in London ? '
she presently asked.

No ; 1 believe I am going into the
country next week  on a visit to my cousin
in Sussex.'

Oh ! ' she exclaimed ; and immediately
checked herself. ' Is that the cousin I heard
you name once when we were abroad ? '

Sir Simon ? Probably it was.'

Shall you have a nice party there ? '

I don't know, I'm sure. I'm going for

the shooting. But there will be one nice
person there, I know.'

And who is she, Captain De Witt ? '

Now, Miss Hopkins, why do you jump
to the conclusion that it's a she at all 1
But, as it happens, you are correct.'

Of course I am. What's she like 
young or old ? '

Well,' said Barrington (who was certainly
charitable on the score of a lady's
age), */ call her young, but possibly you
might call her old.'

I'm getting interested. Captain De Witt.
Is she pretty ? '

She has just missed being beautiful, to
my mind.'

Oh ! ' gasped Blanche curiously. Then
she gave a sudden jump to a solution.
Why, perhaps it's your sister.'

No, I am sorry to say I have no sister.

But it's my aunt.'

Oh ! ' repeated the mystified girl ; whilst
VOL. r.

Barrington laughed heartily, enjoying the
joke.

They had now reached Miss Hopkins's
destination, and there was no opportunity
for further conversation, as De Witt declined
her invitation to enter the house.
But, as he lit his cigar, and turned slowly
back across the park, the American girl
stood for a moment contemplating his retreating
figure. It was a well-knit, athletic
figure, and  albeit without any deviation inconstancy
to a certain person left behind in
the far West  belonged to a man greatly
admired by the fair Blanche. But her
regrets at this moment, as she stood looking
after him, were purely vicarious.

She was wondering, after the fashion of
the daughters of Eve, when they rashly
pick up edged tools in their dainty little
fingers,  as is sometimes their wont, 
whether she had handled them with sufficient
delicacy ?

At any rate,' she said to herself, as she
turned away and entered the doorway, * I
didn't let out half I know. I guess I
was pretty prudent, any way, about Sir
Simon's.'



CHAPTER IX.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.

A house without books is like a body without a soul.'

Cicero.

Well, Barry, so here you are at last ! '

Here I am, my venerable aunt, as you
remark ; and as hungry as a hunter. I
hope you don't dine at a very fashionable
hour, Simon ? '

Eight o'clock,' replied the first voice ;
but here is a cup of tea to keep you going,
greedy boy.'

The speaker was a woman not young, but
of singular attractions. There was something
about Judith CoUyer  a freshness, a
purity of look and voice which might have
passed unnoticed in a crowd, but which

made those who had once turned their eyes
towards her look aoain and again. Alas it
also the beauty of the large dark eyes, the
pale transparency of the soft skin, and the
fine lines of a slightly sarcastic mouth  or
perhaps the little high-bred air of reticence,
seeming to imply a strong and impulsive
nature held in check by a still stronger
will ?

Now,' she continued, ' let me look at
you. You don't look as blooming as I
expected after your travels, Barry.'

Yon look as blooming as ever, and as
wicked,' he remarked disrespectfully, as he
bent to kiss her cheek.  What mischief
have you been up to lately, Miss Judy ? '

None worth mentioning, dear boy ;
times have been dull. Everything and
everybody has been stagnating since you
left home. It's so good of Simon to try to
wake us up a bit.'

Is he going to wake us up ? '

Ever since she could remember Miss
Collyer had been on intimate terms with
the baronet. He was in fact a distant
cousin of her father's, and had, as a young
man, been enslaved and tyrannized over by
the sparkling little girl, in much the same
way as he loved now to be teased and
patronized by the pretty graceful woman.
At his house it had been that Judith's
eldest sister, Harrington's mother, had first
met her future husband, Mr. De Witt ; and
the friendship had never been dropped.

He was a quiet, elderly gentleman, who
now stood by smiling, but saying nothing.
It seemed to be a proceeding to which he
was well accustomed to be spoken of in
the third person whilst present, and he appeared
well enough content to let some one
else be sponsor of his replies.

So it was now, as Aunt Judith answered
promptly, 

Rather ! We've got nine people already

in the house, and a couple more coming
tomorrow. And there's a tennis and
archery party here tomorrow, and a fancy
ball at Chums worth on Thursday.'

Ghost of my grandmother ! ' exclaimed
Barrington. ' I thought it was a sociable
trio made up of you and I and Simon there.
I might have left my evening pumps
behind. And are you going to the ball,
Aunt Judy ? '

Of course I I've settled to go as the
Decayed Gentlewoman," the typical specimen,
you know. And I think a sort of
mouldy green would be the proper colour
for my dress ; and I might have it trimmed
with a few dead leaves. That would be a
lovely high-art admixture, would it not ? '

Green wouldn't suit your complexion,
Aunt Judy,' said her nephew gravely.

But, as Sir Simon left the room. Miss
Colly er turned her dark eyes searchingly
towards her companion.

What have you been doing, Barry ? '
she asked suddenly. The unexpectedness
of the assault a little took him aback.
You have been worrying yourself about
something,' she said gently.

Never mind, Aunt Judy ; one can't go
through life on rose-leaves, you know.'

I think sou ought, dear ; you are so
good and kind.'

And she stroked his hair with a caressing
hand.

But I don't want to know about it,
Barry,' she continued ; ' that is quite
unnecessary.'

Yes,' he said, half wearily, ' it's of no use
talking over some worries, even with anyone
as kind as you are. Aunt Judy. But
it is very pleasant to be coaxed and flattered
again.'

Oh, Barry, I always tell you of your
faults when I see them ! '

Well, I suppose I must go and dress.

Somehow, one feels this houseful rather a
bore. Where are they all now ? '

In then' warrens, adorning for conquest
at dinner. And you and I shall be unadorned
if we don't look sharp.'

I fancied I was coming down here to
chaperon you and Simon.'

Why, you don't mean to say you  you,
spoilt creature  would reduce yourself to a
gooseberry ? '

'Oh, I shouldn't mind it with you two.
I should like to see old Simon spooning
you.'

Barry, you mustn't talk in that way ; I
don't like it ! '

Why, you don't mean to say you don't
know how gone he is on you, and has been
for years ? '

If I thought there was anything that
mattered  do you think I should be here
now % '

Why not ? Must he be deprived of the

pleasure of seeing you because you won't
marry him ? '

Oh, dear boy, don't talk like that. Do
you know, you've grown very silly ? A
winter in Italy has deteriorated your good
sense.'

And Judith Collyer ran away laughing.

When, twenty minutes later, De Witt
descended once more, not to the little
morning-room this time, but to the large
drawing-room, he found it fairly well filled
with guests, some outsiders, some visitors
staying in the house. The room was
somewhat dimly lit by half a dozen moderator
lamps, and in the semi-gloom, Barrington
fancied that all the company were
strangers to him. As he turned, however,
to glance at a row of ladies seated upon a
divan not far from the door, his gaze was
arrested by a figure almost at his elbow
a girl dressed in a simple white silk,
whose face was almost as white as her

dress ; and he started with surprise. Fora
moment he thought he must be deceived ;
then he remembered his first day's acquaintance
with Mrs. Brereton. and how she had
spoken of his cousin, Sir Simon, as a mutual
friend. It was indeed Nell Lingwood.
Had he contemplated this meeting he
certainly would have thought twice about
accepting Simon's invitation.

Meanwhile their eyes had met, and he
had the poor satisfaction of perceiving that
if the rencontre were in any degree startling
and discomposing to himself, it was not less
so to her. It was too late for her to avoid
recognition if she had wished to do so ; but
as she returned his stiff* bow, a vivid flush
spread across her face from brow to chin,
and he perceived that her self-possession
was for the moment more lost that his
own. But in truth, he had recovered himself
quickly, and no stranger would have
perceived any unusual inflection in the quiet

tone with which he asked her some conventional
question  she knew not what  as
to their return from the continent.

She made some inarticulate answer ; and
when she next glanced upwards he was
gone. He was not perhaps particularly hot
upon renewing his acquaintance with Mrs.
Brereton ; but, under the circumstances, she
afforded relief, and he escaped to the
opposite end of the long room, where he had
caught sight of her voluminous draperies
and good-natured face.

The good lady was plainly a little embarrassed
when Barrington presented himself
before her, although she strove hard to
disguise the fact. She might have spared
herself the trouble, however ; a simple mind
and candid disposition always rendered
disguise impossible to her. She held out
her hand with a greeting that only failed in
cordiality from being a little nervous.

Clearly,' thought Barrington, ' her

daughter has told her all that passed between
us In which he was quite wrong.
Had he known the truth, Nell had kept that
episode entirely to herself. Not a syllable
had passed her lips, even to her mother, on
the subject ; and if Mrs. Brereton guessed
at all at the truth, it was simply her maternal
acumen that had informed her. Her
present visible constraint was indeed connected
with the same cause ; but was
provoked by reminiscences of her husband's
jealous prejudice against the young man,
and the repeated scolding he had bestowed
upon her on account of her mild partiality
for Barrington.

She quickly thawed, however, and resumed
her old friendly tone ; for, after all,
Edward was not here, nor Eobert, to blame
or criticize, and she might please herself.
Mrs. Brereton vas very far from being a
deceitful woman, but she was a weak-minded
one, a good deal persecuted by the

male members of her household; and she
had fallen naturally into the habit of a
painstaking submission whilst under their
surveillance, and an agreeable relaxation to
her own inclinations in their absence.
Besides which, she possessed to a large
degree the natural penchant of the kindly
British matron towards young and handsome
men.

Just before dinner was announced, Judith
Collyer managed to touch her cousin's
elbow, and attract his attention for a
moment. 'Simon,' she said softly, 'please
to send Barrington in with Miss Hutchinson
or Mrs. Robarts.'

'Why?' he asked vaguely. 'I had
thought of giving him a chance with Miss
Ling wood, the beautiful heiress.'

Miss Collyer frowned till her delicately
pencilled eyebrows met across her little
nose.

No, you great stupid man, do as I tell

you ! You needn't ask why. And you
needn't introduce them either; they have
met before. Do you hear me ? '

Yes, Judith,' answered the bookworm
meekly, casting a glance of satisfaction
over the slight graceful figure and the
pretty imperious features  and Miss CoUyer
moved away. She had certainly the quickest
eyes in existence ; and Sir Simon, who
revered her tacit-from afar, never dreamt
of disputing her dictum on matters social.

Accordingly, a minute later, Barrington
was tapped on the shoulder, and, following
his host, was brought to a stand-still before
Miss Hutchinson. This was a large, golden -
haired young lady, quite of the modern
school of accomplishments  a little fast and
horsey, rather slangy, and extremely flirty.
She was exceedingly vivacious in conversation,
and seemed in no way discouraged
by a somewhat silent companion ; on the
contrary, it seemed to rouse her to a greater

sense of her obligations to society  doubtless
on the principle, that if one of a couple,
who should both be tolerably agreeable, is
slightly dull, the other should fill up the sum
total by making herself supremely agreeable.

After a time, however, he roused himself
to do what was expected of him, and
found that the carrying on of a conversation
of the Miss Hutchinson type, even
in its most brilliant phases, was not incompatible
with small exertion and a somewhat
pre occupied mind. Fight against the
inclination as he would, his eyes kept
reverting again and again to the other side
of the table, where Nell Lingwood sat with
her partner, an animated young baronet,
a local somebody.

Judith Collyer might prevent such a contretemps
as the sending of them in together
to dinner, but she could not prevent their
being placed nearly opposite each other ; and
Barrington could not look across the table

without catching sight of her face. She
looked more beautiful than ever to-night,
and he was conscious of a st ran ere minirlino'
of two distinct and opposing sentiments 
one, a sort of repulsion towards this girl
who had believed so unwarrantably, so
strangely to him ; the other, of a half reawakened
love roused by her presence, her
beauty, her nameless fascination.

He heard and replied to every remark
made by Miss Hutchinson, yet there was
scarcely a word uttered by Nell Logwood
which he missed ; and he was not
slow to observe her resolutely downcast
eyes, and the unusual flush which burnt
upon her cheeks. He began half to pity
her evident embarrassment, and tried to
fancy it was the pity of indifference. Perhaps
it gave her pain now to be reminded
of an occasion when she had behaved with
petulance, almost with insult, to one who

had certainly done nothing to deserve it.
VOL. I. p

Perhaps she had convinced herself, after the
event, that he, De Witt, was after all something;
better than an adventurer  that he
was an honest man and a gentleman. Well,
he had no bitterness against her ; he was
not ape enough to blame a girl if she did
not fall in love with him  particularly a girl
like this one, so beautiful, so attractive  so
rich, he added to himself, with a moment's
scorn.

And then he suddenly found himself
looking over Miss Lingwood's companion
with a close and unfriendly scrutiny that
criticized his every point, and found them
deficient. But still she kept her eyes
lowered ; she seemed to have a terror of
again meeting his glance ; and De Witt had
an uncomfortable sensation of being in the
way of her comfort, and spoiling her dinner
for her.

The instincts of a gentleman made him
feel as if he ought to get up and change

his place ; and, had it been possible, he
would have done so. Perhaps she might
have enjoyed an agreeable flirtation with
that very harmless-looking young man who
had taken her in if it had not been for
himself. He had no wish to be Banquo's
ghost to any one at the feast  however
much her embarrassment would place itself
before him in the liojht of a sort of involuntary
amende for her former treatment of
him. Perhaps also it assured him that he
had not been so far wrong in his first
estimate of her character. She was sensitive,
she was generous ; if she had failed in
womanly courtesy, if she had been wanting
in womanly gentleness, it was the fault
of a sudden impulse stirred up by outside
influence, not of a disposition in itself
shallow or unfeeling.

Meanwhile he would do his best to
relieve her discomfort by keeping out of
her sight as milch as possible. Clearly, his

P 2

presence was disagreeable to lier. The
situation was unfortunate for both of them ;
but it was his place, as a gentleman, to
minimize its unpleasantness for her.

Accordingly, dinner over, he permitted
Miss Hutchinson still to lead him captive
in her train. He turned over her music
for her when she sang, sat beside her when
she unearthed a book of photographs, and
managed to be deeply absorbed in a view
of Naples at the moment when Mrs. Bretton
and her daughter were bidding their
host and Miss Col Yer good night.

Then he rose, and shaking off his chains,
approached the hearth-rug, gently gravitating
thence towards the door, and the
smoking-room beyond. He was getting
rather tired of Miss Hutchinson. It must
be somebody else tomorrow  Mrs. Robarts
perhaps, or the baronet's shy, pink and
white sister  it mattered little which.
This was hard on poor Miss Hutchinson,

who, notwithstanding the somewhat sudden
departure of her victim, believed his chains
secure, and was abbacy meditating another
and more public procession of conquest on
the morrow. But Barrington's face wore
an ungenial look that nio;ht as he smoked
his cigar in silence ; and he contradicted
poor Sir Simon rather uncivilly on the
subject of his newly-imported cigars. But
then, what could an old bookworm know
about tobacco ?

My dear fellow,' he remarked, shortly,
what's your opinion worth ? You don't
know Shag from Cavendish.'

And Sir Simon was grieved on the score
of his hospitality, and felt his young cousin
was hard upon him ; but took the rebuke
meekly, acknowledging his ignorance upon
the subject in hand.

I never had tobacco in my mouth but
once,' he remarked ingenuously. ' I was
twelve years old then, and the groom lent me

this pipe for a joke. I have never forgotten,
all these years, how very sick it made me.'

Meanwhile, shall we glance for a moment
into one of the rooms up-stairs ? A large
room, well and handsomely furnished,
as were all the rooms at Boston Court.
But, before the luxurious bed, knelt a girl,
her evening dress unchanged, her door
locked. Her arms were fluor across the
counterpane, and her face was hidden upon
her clasped hands. She was quite still,
quite motionless  for girls of the stuff
of Nell Ling wood find it hard to cry 
perhaps all the harder when their trouble
is a sore one.

There the kneeling figure remained for an
hour or more. Was she reflecting ? was she
praying ? was she suffering ? Who can look
inside the human heart and describe how
each one of us may, in our different way,
resign ourselves to reap the bitter harvest
we have sown ?

CHAPTER X.

JARRING ELEMENTS.

The more fair and crystal is the sky,
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.'

Shakespeare.

The next morning Barrington joined the
shooting party that formed itself shortly-after
breakfast, and remained absent the
greater part of the day, taking luncheon in
the open. Towards four o'clock, however,
most of the gentlemen, mindful of their
duty to their host, returned in the direction
of the court and the archery party, and he
amongst them.

When he advanced Miss Lingwood was
aiming; at a taro-et, and he observed that
she was a very indifferent toxophilite. He
was therefore somewhat astonished when,

after bein(y attached for an hour to the

o

side of Miss Hutchinson, who called him
up and requested his attendance as arrow
gatherer, he found the former declared by
Sir Simon to be the recipient of one of the
four prizes offered for competition to his
guests.

She gained it in the first set,' remarked
Miss Hutchinson, glancing towards the
pretty bracelet a little discontentedly. (She
had won nothing herself.) ' I don't think
much of archery myself,' she continued ; ' do
you ? It is so old-fashioned. If it was with
the rifle now, I would lay a fair wager I'd
beat them all here. That's real sport  this
is baby-play. Do you admire her much ? '

Who ? Mis Lingwood ? ' he asked, to
gain time.

Yes. They make a fearful fuss over
her round about here, just because she's an
heiress. She has a tremendous pot of
money, they say. She's not my style.'

De Witt glanced towards Nell. Miss
Hutchinson's opinion did not appear to be
shared by the gentlemen present, most of
whom were now crowding round to congratulate
her on her success. The girl's
face was flushed ; but, as the smile died on
her lips, and she turned to move towards
the house, a peculiar sadness in her expression
struck him forcibly for the first
time. He was rather absent as he escorted
Miss Hutchinson to the conservatories, and
assisted her to choose a flower to wear in
her hair that evening.

Sir Simon's party was beginning to thaw
into a social intimacy by this time ; and
when, after dinner, some one proposed a
little carpet-hop amongst themselves, the
notion was warmly greeted by most.

'You dance, of course. Captain De Witt? '
inquired the lady beside him. 'Well then,
there will be five couples, and a lady over
to do the orchestra  quite enough.'

Quite,' echoed every one ; whilst Miss
Collyer exclaimed,  ' I'm orchestra ; it's my
forte.'

Not till you have danced a waltz with
me,' remarked her nephew ; at the same
moment stealing a glance towards Nell
Lingwood.

She had remained silent when the
amusement was voted ; and Barrington felt
instinctively that she was the only other
person in the room beside himself to whom
the proposal had been distasteful. And yet
surely, with that slight supple figure, and
those graceful movements, dancing must
come natural to her ?

He was startled from his moment's abstraction
by a pat on the arm from Aunt
Judith.

Now then, Barrington, find your partner.'

You,' he said, putting his arm round
her waist.

Nonsense ! Fight with one of your own

size  T mean age ! Oh, well, I see Mrs.
Brereton has already installed herself upon
the music-stool.'

And it isn't big enough for you both,
my aunt ! '

No, it isn't. Well, it's very good-natured
of her. But you oughtn't to dance
with me. Isn't there something in the
Articles against it ? '

Do you mean,' he asked with gravity, ' a
man may not marry his grandmother ? '

Yes, that's it. So a man may not
waltz with his aunt.'

Mayn't he ? Oh, Aunt Judy, I don't
want to be bothered to talk. Do you
think they would miss me if I was to slope
off to bed ? '

'Of course they would, Barry.' But
Miss Colly er looked concerned. ' Aren't
you in the mood for dancing ? '

I don't feel inclined for all those Miss
Hutchinson, and Mrs. Robarts', and

people. It's such a grind to have to talk
and flirt when you feel dull.'

Poor boy ! ' said Judith thoughtfully.

She had too much tact to try at the present
moment to probe his meaning further.

Duty, however, had to be done ; and the
next dance, another waltz, having been
achieved with Miss Hutchinson, who was
rather difficult to get rid of,  inasmuch as,
at its conclusion, she suggested cups of
tea, conservatory strolls, and every other
innocent device for retaining her partner at
her side,  Harrington found himself duly
installed in a set of Lancer with Mrs.
Robarts, with Miss Lingwood as the lady
next beside him.

It did not add to his comfort to find,
after a moment, that Nell had chased
her place, and, under some pretext, put
herself and her partner in another position
; and he scarcely knew why he felt
80 disturbed, as, in the turns of the

figures, he held in his for an instant her
cold limp hand, and noticed how steadfastly
she avoided his eye. He was yet
more angry with himself than with her, ashe
felt how those short touches, those brief
clasps of the small unwilling hand that had
once met his so genially, so frankly, even
now thrilled him with an emotion that he
could not suppress.

He was thankful when at length, after a
few more sets, the evening was voted too hot
for any more dancing; and music supervened.
Everybody seemed to sing, and nearly everybody
to play ; and one lady created much
applause by her successful performance upon
the either, an instrument which she had
brought with her from the Tyrol.

Miss Lingwood, however, sat quietly in
her low chair not far from the window,
and resisted all entreaties ; which seemed
strange, as Barrington knew that her performances,
both musical and vocal, were

above the average. Perhaps, however, she
found her present situation too agreeable
to wish to disturb it. Close beside her
sat Sir Henry Lovelace, the young baronet
of whom previous mention has been made,
and whom De Witt overheard saying softly
to his companion, 

I am very unselfish to press you to go,
much as I love your singing ; for I had
rather you remained here.'

Barrington,' asked Sir Simon suddenly,
across the long room, ' don't you sing 1 I
thought I remembered you did.'

*0h, yes,' murmured the unconscious
Mrs. Brereton, who had quite lapsed into
her old partiality for the young man, and
who had a hazy reminiscence of some Capri
vocations  'of course he can. Do sing us
something. Captain De Witt.'

All the ladies echoed her request; and
without more ado, Barrington moved to the
piano.

He was not a great performer, but his
voice was sweet and well-modulated, and
he played as he sang  easily, without constraint
or self-consciousness. His first
ballad gave great satisfaction to the company
; and a general request arose at its
conclusion for another.

Barrington had risen, but he sat down
again to comply without pressing, pausing a
moment, and then commencing in a voice
stronger and firmer than before. There was
a half smile on his face, but a sort of defiant
sadness in his heart, as he sang ; and never
perhaps had he given the simple little song
before with so much force and expression.
It was one which he had last sung at Capri,
and often there  for it was Nell Lingwood's
favourite, the one for which she always
asked when in a music-making mood  and
it seemed to bring before him with a
strange clearness all the details of the
shabby little hotel salon, the cracked piano.

and Nell's presence near. He had fancied
he would never care to sing that song
ao-ain ; but he chose it now, for some unexplained
motive, and sang it with a sort of
bitter enjoyment that seemed to himself to
express an implied scorn of former love.
When it was finished he rose quickly and
walked towards the window.

How hot it is to-night ! ' he remarked, ashe
stepped out upon the balcony, disregarding
Miss Hutchinson's pleading looks as she
sat alone upon a sofa.

At the further end of the long balcony
sat a figure leaning against the balustrade,
and he paced towards it unconsciously. Ashe
approached, however, the figure raised
its face from where it had been hidden,
lying ci gainst the cold bare stone, and
looked up startled. He was almost equally
startled to perceive Nell Lingwood ; yet
noticed the painful agitation on the pale
features upraised for a moment to his in the

moonlight. The next she rose hurriedly,
and before he could turn, had fled softly
indoors again by one of the many open
windows. He did not follow her example.
He went onwards, and descending: the flight
of steps, turned into the darkened shrubbery
below. At that moment he made up his
mind. He would tell his cousin to-night
that his visit must be a short one, and on
the morrow he would take his departure.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XL

RECONCILED.

Have you not heard it said fall oft,
A woman's nay doth stand for naught 1 '

Shakespeare.

The next morning Miss Lingwood did
not appear at breakfast ; and Mrs, Brereton,
in answer to general inquiries, explained
that her daughter was suffering from a
severe headache, that might put a stop to
her going to the fancy ball that night.
This excited general commiseration, and a
loudly-expressed chorus of regret ; and one
or two of the gentlemen declared that such
a calamity could not for a moment be
contemplated.

At luncheon, however, Nell was in her

usual place, although certainly paler than
usual, and with dark rings round her eyes,
much as if she had not slept all night.
She appeared to be in good spirits, however,
and talked fast and gaily to the man
who sat beside her.

Barrinoton had not seen her in such brood
spirits since he arrived ; but it did not
alter his determination of taking his departure
that afternoon. She should not 
whatever her conduct to him had been 
say of him or think of him that he had
voluntarily annoyed her by his presence.
But his eyes kept straying every now and
then towards her end of the table. With
those constant smiles upon her lips, and
that brilliant sparkle in her talk, she seemed
so much more like the girl he had loved
at Capri, than had been his silent embarrassed
neighbour of last niorht. Yet there
was a difference about her. Perhaps the

difference lay in the fact that her brilliancy,

Q 2

lier smiles, were now offered, not to himself,
but to another man I What mattered it
to him whom she favoured now ? ' If she
be not fair to me, what care I how fair
she hew And he applied himself with
assiduity to the amusement of two pretty
neighbours.

Lunch over, he followed his cousin into
the library, asking for a time-table.

You're not really going, I hope ? ' said
Sir Simon. ' I didn't think you were in
earnest last night. Why should you leave
us in such a hurry ? '

I have business in town,' replied Barrington
shortly.

But you must stop over this fancy ball
to-night, won't you ? '

Can't, old fellow ; it's very good of you
to wish it.'

'Oh, well,' groaned his cousin, 'if you
must go, there's the time-table. But I
can't let you go till after dinner. There's

the evening express at 9.30. Yon't that
do?'

All right said Barrington ; ' that will
do.'

Then you can say good-bye to everybody,
you know ; and get a mouthful of
something to eat before you start,' said
the hospitable baronet, ignoring the excellent
lunch from which they had just
risen.

Barrington was not so sure whether he
particularly wished to say good-bye to
every one ; but he thanked Sir Simon, and
assented as he left the room.

He felt relieved now that he had made
up his mind to go, and wished that he were
already in the train, rushing Town-wards.
Never again, he hoped, would the doctrine
of unlucky chances lead him towards
another meetings with Nell Lino-wood. Once
out of Rolston Court, and that episode
would be, he hoped, for ever closed. Thus

reflecting, somewhat sorely and impatiently,
he lit Ms cigar and strolled out into the
garden, Waif beside him as usual, pacing
on slowly down one of the long and winding
walks.

Suddenly, as he turned the corner of the
shrubbery, he paused. He had come insight
of a solitary figure seated upon the
garden bench at the angle of the pathway
just under the big beech tree. The figure
had a somewhat drooping and despondent
attitude, such as would perhaps come
naturally to a person suffering from a bad
headache ; and at sight of it De Witt
stood reflecting a moment  with a sudden
impulse then flinging away his cigar, and
walking slowly onwards.

She started visibly as he approached her,
for the walk was so covered with moss that
she had not heard his footsteps until he
was almost beside her. Her face had been
white and sorrowful a moment before ; but

now, as it turned towards him, a vivid flush
suffused her cheeks, and a stiff constraint
made itself felt in her manner.

De Witt raised his cap slightly as he
stood before her.

'Allow me,' he said quietly, 'to hope
that your headache will soon mend, and
that you will be able to take part in the
festivities this evening. I am called away,
and shall not be there, so will take this
opportunity of saying good-bye.'

Was he speaking in sarcasm or in all
simplicity '? It was beyond his companion's
power to say ; but she guessed intuitively
at the cause of his sudden departure.

Her colour had quickly faded, and her
voice was very formal as she answered 
although she herself heard plainly enough
the tremor that ran through it, 

Are you going so soon ? I fancied you
were stopping several days.'

It was only this morning that I found

I must leave. I should be sorry,' he added,
after a moment, unable quite to restrain
his bitterness, ' to remain where I had
reason to believe my presence was a burden
to any lady in the house.'

A burden ! ' she murmured incoherently,
the hot red once more spreading over her
cheeks.

'A burden,' he repeated calmly. 'Let
me hope now that you will enjoy a pleasant
evening, Miss Lingwood, since I shall not
be there to annoy you by my company.'

It would not annoy me  ' She hesitated,
anger and pain struggling together
in her voice.

Indeed ? Well, I prefer to avoid the
chance of it. Good afternoon.' And once
more raising his hat, and without glancing
at the girl's face, he turned upon his heel
and sauntered slowly off.

What instinct was it  what good or bad
angel of his  that prompted him, when

almost out of sight, to turn once more and
glance backwards ?

The solitary figure still sat where he
had left it, but now all crouched and
bent together : the head was buried in
the hands, and even at this distance, De
Witt could see how the slight shoulders
shook and quivered with unrestrained
emotion.

Nell ! why are you crying ? '

At the sudden sound of his voice, striking
so unexpectedly upon her ear, she sprang
up as if she had been shot, her eyes flashing,
her face crimson.

But it was too late to hide the streaming
tears from his sight. He took her two
hands in his almost sternly, and forced her
to look at him.

What does it all mean ? ' he asked.
Nell, you doit hate me ! Why do you
make us both so miserable ? '

Then, as she still strove to hide her face,

the passionate sobs still rising in her throat,
he went on :

You may deceive in your words, you
may be cold in your manner, but your eyes
cannot tell me lies. Nell, you care for me
why do you pretend you don't ? '

I never pretended,' she said in a low
voice, as he drew her towards him ; ' it
was all wrong together  you didn't understand.'


Then, as he put his arm round her, she
suddenly clung to him, sobbing,

Oh, don't go away again ! '

'Am I likely r he asked. 'Nell, you
know if I ever went away willingly. You
drove me from you.'

It has been such a long, long time,' she
sighed.

It has been very long to me,' he said
gravely. 'And it came near to being forever,
Nell ; for I should never have come
back after this time.'

Oh, it was so cruel of you  you spoke
so hardly ! '

Nell, I can't understand ; you talk now
as if / had changed to you.'

So you did, I thought.'

Instead of which, it is you who behaved
badly to me. Have you forgotten that day
at Sorrento ? '

'Ah, but I had not had time then. If
you only knew it all  You said we were
to be friends only.'

Till we could be something better.'

But I didn't want you to be anything
better  not at first. And you didn't put
it in that way at first.'

Why, of course I didn't  at first. Perhaps
I didn't know it myself then. A man doesn't
propose to a girl the first day he sees her.'

Don't laugh at me! If you knew
everything, you wouldn't.'

Can't you tell me everything ? '

Papa and Robert never would believe

in your friendship. And I was sure you
meant it really, and said so. I didn't want
you to be like all the others  not then.'

What others ? ' asked Barrington, half
mystified, half amused.

If you laugh I can't tell you. It all
seems so silly and horrid now ; but it has
been a dreadful trouble to me all my life.
Didn't I seem suspicious and cold to you
sometimes  at first ? '

'I thought you seemed to have a poor
opinion of my sex in general  sometimes,'
he responded.

You wouldn't wonder if you knew. It
began when I was only sixteen or seventeen,
at school, and it was always going on after
I grew up. And papa and Robert told me
girls with money were always treated so,
and must beware of everybody. And once I
had a horrid lesson. I don't like to tell you.'

Please tell me,' said Barrington ; ' you can
whisper it, you know  I have very sharp ears.'

Well, it was a gentleman,  and he
seemed a really nice man,  and lie was
clever and good-looking, and I thought he
really cared for me. I wasn't in love with
him, you know  she paused,   but he was
very nice, and I was only nineteen, and I
did think he was in earnest. And I was
sorry for him, and had half made up my
mind to think about it,  only to think about
it, you know,  when some one, a friend of
papa's, brought a letter to show him written
by this man  such a horrid letter.'

What did it say ? '

Well  now don't laugh this time ! It
was very silly to mind, I suppose, but in
it he called me Miss Moneybags, and  and
it showed he didn't really care one bit.'

The cad ! ' exclaimed Barrington. ' I
don't think it was at all silly to mind.
You had a lucky escape, Nell. So you
have been afraid of everybody since, poor
little girl ? '

I began to think everybody came for
my money, not for me  '

Why, Nell, you little goose, you brown-eyed
witch,' and he emphasized each epithet
with a delicious kiss upon the soft white
forehead lying against his shoulder, ' do
you know yourself so little as not to
have discovered yet that you have beauty
enough to dower half a dozen penniless
girls, and to turn a man's head ? '

No,' she whispered ; * I don't think anyone
really finds me very attractive  except
you.'

That's because you are such a cold little
icicle. So you have made up your mind
that I'm not a fortune-hunter, eh, Nell ? '

Oh, don't ; you make me feel so ashamed
of myself  '

Not at all. I don't see how you could
help yourself. Perhaps Mr. Brereton and
Robert  may still regard me in that
light 1 '

I cannot tell what they may do, and I
do not care  not one scrap now. They are
not my masters.' And she drew herself
up proudly.

I like to see you look like that, Nell ;
it is like your old self, the girl I fell in
love with  '

And who treated you so badly ? '

Well, she did. But she was my queen
then ; and now I have got back my queen.
It didn't feel at all the thing to have her
crying and confessing her sins just now,
like any other common-place, humble-minded
girl.'

1 did not confess any sins ! '

That's right ; I like that sparkle. My
queen is always a trifle haughty by nature.'

Oh, Barrington, how long have we sat
here ? I must go in.'

You will be chilly if you sit any longer.
But won't it do if we walk up and down ? '

No, it won't ; I must go in at once.

Besides, you know, you have to pack your

portmanteau ! '

Oh, ah ! to be sure I have.'

Barrington ! you don't mean it ? '

Oh, my queen, do you want me to
stay "? Well, under all the circumstances,
perhaps my business may wait  that is to
say, if your head promises to get well
enough for the ball to-night.'

It is quite well already. Drop my arm
now if you please.'

Are you afraid of meeting any one ? '

You know I am not 1 Am I afraid of
anybody in the world ? ' she asked scornfully.


A little afraid of me  but that is right.'
Nell did not descend for afternoon tea ;
and vfhen, a little later, Mrs. Brereton
proceeded to her daughters room to make
inquiries, she found the invalid in a strange
mood. The girl had been pale and silent
all morning  her headache had seemed to

depress her to an unusual extent ; but now
her mother found her seated in a low chair
before the window, her cheeks flushed, her
eyes bright, and her lips smiling. She
looked like a fair type of happiness personified,
her whole expression so different
from that of the last few months, that Mrs.
Brereton stood amazed.

Well,' said the latter, entering, ' your
head seems well, at any rate, my dear.'

Quite, quite well, dear mamma.'

Then I suppose you will go to the ball ? '
Yes, dear mother.'

The contented radiance of her smile could
not fail to strike Mrs. Brereton. She was
not a clever or an observant woman, but
she was a mother, and a kindly one where
her natural disposition was not perverted.

Nell,' she exclaimed suddenly, ' what
has happened to you ? ' and she bent
down to look more closely into the beautiful
features.

VOL. L E,

Nell's answer was to draw her face still
lower downwards, and to cover it with kisses.

Only that I have found out at last,
mother,' she whispered softly, * what it is
to be happy  to be perfectly happy, to have
nothing left to wish for on earth ! '

Mrs. Brereton raised herself with a
startled countenance.

Oh, Nell, what do you mean ? '

I mean what I say, mother. After
months of sorrow  oh, such sorrow !  I
have come to perfect happiness. Mother,
have you never seen, all these weary months,
how sad at heart I have been "? '

I have often thought that something
weighed upon your mind, Nell ; but you
never would let me know what it was.'

No, mother, I never would have told
you if things had not come right. Perhaps
it was wrong and proud of me, but I had
brought my own trouble on myself, and I
meant to bear my punishment in silence.

But now that it has all come right, and that
he has spoken to me again, I can tell you
about it. He spoke to me first that day at
Sorrento, the first day we were there.
Don't look so mystified, mother, you know
whom I am speaking of.'

Captain De Witt ? ' asked Mrs. Brereton.

Yes. Well, I was horrid to him then.
Oh, mother, I behaved like a brute. I
was vexed, I think, because of all the nasty
things papa and Robert had said about
him, and because I had always declared
he only wished to be my friend,  you know,
mother,  and I hardly knew then how
much I cared for him. But I knew it
directly I had sent him away. I thought
I must have been mad to speak to him in
the way I had ; but it was too late, I knew
he never would come back. And he never
would have done so if I had not met him
here, and if  ' She paused, whilst the
vivid colour deepened on her cheeks.

E 2

It was good of him, so generous of him,
mother, to come back to me ; for I had
insulted him that day, and I knew it. And,
oh, I have felt all these months as if my
heart were breaking ; it seemed to get
worse every day, having to hide it and to
pretend to be the same as ever. I sometimes
felt as if it would kill me ; and the
last three days have been the worst of all.
But I don't mind anything now  even all
that misery seems like a dream now. I can
think of nothing except how happy I am.
It seems too much happiness for any one
human being to have ; it almost frightens
me, mother ! '

Mrs. Brereton did not withdraw the hand
which her daughter was softly caressing,
as she poured out her simple, passionately-worded
story ; but her face wore a perturbed
expression, and after Nell had
finished speaking, she remained silent for
several seconds.

You are not vexed, dearest ? ' asked the
girl gently, as she laid her flushed cheek
against her mother's hand and pressed it
there.

N  0,' replied the other slowly ; ' I suppose
it can't be helped. But,' she continued,
after a moment's pause, ' I am afraid it will
bring trouble, my dear.'

I know what you are thinking of,
mother. But why need we trouble about
that yet ? Let us be happy while we may.
I think I shall be strong enough to bear a
little worry and opposition over this. And
you like him, mother, do you not ? Say
you do 1 '

I thought him a very pleasant and
gentlemanly person at Capri,' said Mrs.
Brereton guardedly.

You will soon think more than that of
him, mother. But I will be satisfied if you
will only say you are glad to see your child
so happy.'

I should like you always to be that,
I am sure, Nell, my dear

*I know you would, mother. Mother,
we have two days longer, perhaps three,
to enjoy ourselves in. You won't tell anyone
before then, will you ? '

'No, I suppose not. I hope it isn't
wrong.'

How can it be wrong "? You would not
have known if I had not told you ; and I
am not a child, I am twenty-two. And
after that, mother, I will fight the battle,
and I will bear the brunt. I will save you
all I can.'

Oh, my dear,' sighed the poor woman,
how can you ? It is impossible ; you don't
understand.'

I think I understand, mother ; but I
will do all I can to save you. I have often
been impatient and hot-tempered, dear, I
know ; but this time I will be so patient
that they will not be able to quarrel with

me, and yet so firm that they will find it
useless to oppose me. But don't let us
think of that yet, dear mother, let us forget
it all for these few days

Mrs. Brereton kissed the upturned, pleading
face.

You shall be happy, my dear,' she said.
Take your three days  one is not young
twice.' And she sighed a quiet sigh full of
repressed pathos.

It was nearly dark when, some time later,
she left her daughter's room and proceeded
towards her own, to dress for dinner. In
the corridor she suddenly encountered a
figure that had been springing up the stairs
two steps at a time, and which paused with
a smiling face at her approach.

Oh, Captain De Witt ! ' she exclaimed,
unable to keep silence with her heart so
full.

He held out his hand with a beaming
smile. ' She has told you ? '

'Yes  yes, she's told me.' And she took
his hand half reluctantly.

'You don't object, I hope mamma ?'

I don't know, I'm sure. Oh dear me ! '
she exclaimed helplessly.

Well, you know,' he said persuasively,
it must have come some time, mustn't it ?
She must have married some one some day,
mustn't she ? '

'I don't know what Mr. Brereton will
say to it.'

It was on the end of Barrington's tongue
to inquire what the dickens it mattered
what Mr. Brereton might say upon the
subject, but he was too happy to be cantankerous.
So instead 

Well,' he said, ' you don't object to me
personally, do you, Mrs. Brereton ? '

I ? Oh, I always liked you, you know.
Captain De Witt.'

Then I don't mind any one else.'

'But we mustn't be rash about these things.'

But you don't refuse your sanction, do
you V

Oh, / am nobody, you know.'

You are everybody  to ber and to me.'

Despite ber nervous fears, Mrs. Brereton
felt herself smiling into the handsome
face, with the boyish lightheartedness of
the clear blue eyes.

I am sure you are fond of ber. I shall
tell him so,' she remarked vaguely.

She was considerably flurried, however,
when Barrington suddenly bent down and
gave her a kiss.

How nice you are ! ' he said, with the
impudent audacity of success. ' Never
forget you are on our side  mamma ! '

Oh, I've got to think it all over, Captain
De Witt. I am quite confused and upset.
And we shall all be late for dinner.' And
she hurried away.

CHAPTER XII.

Judith's lover.

Better it seemed as now to walk,
And humbly by her gentle side,
Observe her smile and hear her talk,
Than call the world's next-best my bride.'
Coventry Patmore.

Miss Collyer was in the breakfast-room
at the usual hour next morning, but she
was alone. All the other members of the
Boston party, whether ladies or gentlemen,
were as yet invisible, and probably engaged
in sleeping off the fatigues of the fancy ball
of the preceding night. Miss Collyer had
refused to go to this ball, although pressed
to do so, and had been the only stay-at-home
the evening before. Her promised
costume of mouldy green and dead leaves

had not come home in time, she said.
This morning, therefore, she had the advantage
of the others, and was as fresh as
usual as she glided round the breakfast
room, rear ranging flowers in the many
different vases. She was still euQ-ao-ed in
this occupation, with her back to the door,
when some one, walking softly over the
thick-piled carpet, came suddenly behind
her, and seizing her by the waist, swung
her without ceremony round the room ina
rapid waltz.

Oh, it's you, mad boy, of course ! ' she
exclaimed, as she followed in step, laughing ;
haven't you had enough of that last night ? '

He finished the turn without speaking,
swinging her into her place at the head of
the table, and seating himself beside her.

Now for the coffee and scones,' he said.
'Miss CoUyer, I'm as hungry as ten
hunters.'

Barry, what is the matter with you ?

What are you beaming at me like that for ?
and why do you contemplate the cups and
saucers with such a loving smile ? Are you
going mad, my boy ? '

 Not going, but gone, Miss Judy. Who
wouldn't beam at such a delicious combination
of comforts as breakfast and you
together ? '

Aunt Judith passed him his cup of coffee
in silence, but after a moment she burst
out 

Oh, Barry, I must speak ! '

Speak out, revered auntie ; speak now,
or for ever hold your peace ! '

Barry, it has come all right ! '

Now, you little ferret, however did you
find out there was anything to come
right ? '

I've known it ever since the first evening.
Of course I saw it at once. Women are
not like men, Barry ; they can see things
under their nose  not only those that are

half a mile off. Tell me all quick. Are
you ensjaoed to her ? '

I am engaged to her, and it is all right,
sapient little aunt

My darling boy ! '

There, you are upsetting all the coffee-cups,
Aunt Judy, and disarranging my back
hair. And I've got to think of my personal
appearance now, you know.'

Oh, Barry ! I have been so unhappy for
you all these days. And I knew I mustn't
speak a word ; but my heart ached for you.
How was it all  why did things go wrong ' '

There had been a misunderstanding,
Aunt Judy  four months ago, when we
met abroad. I don't quite understand it
myself ; and what's the good of trying now
when everything is all right ? I'm quite
content with matters as they are.'

You are a good deal more than content,
my old boy ! Oh, Barry, I hope she is
worthy of you.'

You foolish little person ! Put the
query the other way round, and you will
be nearer the mark.'

I like her, Barry.'

You'd better ! Another cup of coffee
and two more resolves, ma'am.'

Barrington, how unromantic you are !
Lovers shouldn't be hungry.'

If you don't hold your tongue, I shall
dance you round the room again. And
you are not to tell any one of this, Aunt
Judy. She does not wish it known here.'

As if you could hide it from anybody I
An owl could have guessed it last night
from your two transmogrified faces. And
as if I should tell any one ! '

You might have told Simon perhaps, in
confidence. You confide a good deal in
Simon, don't you, Miss Collyer ? '

To which Miss Collyer replied by maintaining
a cool and dignified silence.

Three more halcyon days there were for

the lovers  days which need not be described,
since their happiness was of that
kind which to any one who needs a description
of it would be incomprehensible.
Suffice it to say that to each of the two,
neither of whom had been engaged before,
there came a naive surprise  to Nell, the
consciousness of her own power of loving,
and to Barrington, the discovery of the
unreserved confidence, the singular humility
of one he had at first thought proud and
self-restrained. Nell Lingwood, his sweetheart,
was so utterly different a character
from Miss Lingwood, his acquaintance ;
having once confessed her love for him, no
fear, no criticism, no reserve seemed possible
to her. She seemed to live for and in him,
and to disquiet herself over nothing, scarcely
to think of anything else, so long as he
remained hers ; and De Witt, loving her
deeply and truly as he did, was half frightened
and wholly touched by the simplicity

of her devotion. No wonder she had been
cautious and alarmed at first, timid and
half repelled before the advent of love, if
she knew herself capable of such intensity
of feeling.

As for Nell herself, short as had been
the new term of her happiness, it already
seemed to her as if the whole of her previous
life had been a colourless dream,
and as if she had never really lived till
now. What had she done before this thing
happened to her ? how had she borne that
cold waste of vapid existence, self-centred
and emotionless, before the birth of the
new life, when self became extinguished,
and every thought of the present, every
hope of the future was fixed upon another ?
None but herself would ever know the
sudden transition her heart had experienced
during those last few days, from a dull,
despairing regret, to a perfect fulness of
content. She had no shame upon this

point ; she acknowledged it freely to her
own mind ; she would perhaps have acknowledged
it also to Barrington, only
that, whenever she began to speak of
those dark, uncertain days, he invariably
smothered the confession in kisses.

But she told him she had never loved
before ; and he believed it, watching the
soft new glow of the love-light in her eyes,
the new sweetness of her dimpling smile,
and the tender silence and abstraction of
her manner when in general company.

Perhaps, strange to say, it was not a very

different matter with him ; for, except a

boyish fancy or two, passing too quickly

to take root, his heart had never been really

touched before. And it was now his time

to thank God, that, whatever his life had

been in other ways  conformed more or

less to the general standard of his age and

time  yet that on one point perhaps it had

not been ' as other men are,' and that no
VOL. I. s

record of shanie in the past lay upon his
mind to cast a shadow over the brightness
of the pure love of to-day  a record which
some might strive to forget, some to
condone, some to regret, but which none
could wipe out.

The engagement between the two was
kept secret during those three days ; at
least, it was intended to be so, but it
is probable that few of the party in
the house but suspected something of
the truth. Aunt Judith, however, the
one exception to the rule, showed her
usual prompt and sympathetic interest in
the matter, and was speedily installed as
mutual confidante, whilst an intimate and
affectionate friendship sprang up betwixt
Nell and herself. She was the best and
most tactful of assistants in a love affair
ever seen ; she could plan arrangements by
which the two could be together, with the
most barefaced ingenuousness of manner

and unconsciousness of look, and conceal
their prolonged absences from the general
circle by the most artful of tactics.

And yet Miss Collyer was not without
a little secret anxiety of her own, which
weighed upon her mind this last day or two
of her visit, and even lost her some hours'
sleep. But she dismissed it loyally from
her mind as she came down to breakfast
this last morning, prepared somehow or
other to adjust matters so that Barrington
and his fiancee should have one long
walk together before they parted. It
was rather difficult to manage this without
attracting public attention, and the
lovers had to wait ; but Judith  who had
all through her visit acted, by request
of the host, somewhat in the character of
lady hostess  having bid adieu to several
parties of guests, found herself at last able
to leave the house for a stroll, arm in arm
with her friend. Miss Ling;wood. Needless

S 2

to say, they had no sooner turned the corner
of the shrubbery before they were joined
by De Witt ; and, equally needless to say,
at the next corner, Miss CoUyer retraced
her steps. She was just in time to receive
the farewells of the last couple, whom Sir
Simon was escorting to their carriage with
his habitual courtesy of manner. When he
returned, she was standing alone by the
drawing-room fireplace ; for Mrs. Brereton
had retired upstairs to superintend the
packing of her boxes.

It was rather a chilly morning, and a
cheery fire blazed upon the hearth. As
Judith CoUyer stood beside it, one foot
upon the fender, her face looked thoughtful ;
and as her host re-entered, she started a
little. Her mind had been busy with
thoughts of the lovers whom she had but
just quitted, perhaps also with other
thoughts ; and Sir Simon and the present
moment were far away.

He drew an easy-chair up to the fireplace.

Won't you sit down ? ' he asked.

No, thanks, Simon ; I must be going
upstairs to take off my things.'

Don't hurry,' he said.

So all your guests are gone now except
the Breretons. Their train is just after
lunch, I think.'

And Barrington, and you,' he said.

Yes. My cab is ordered at the same
time. Well, you have given us a very
pleasant week of it, Simon. I think everybody
has enjoyed him and herself.'

Thanks to you, I think, Judith.'

Not at all thanks to me. You are a
capital host, Simon.'

Can't you stop on a little, Judith ?
Barrington is staying another night.'

Simon, I am astonished at you ! Don't
you know it would be against all the
proprieties ? '

would it?' he asked absently. Then

he looked up with a sudden access of colour
on his quiet, elderly-featured face.

'Judith, if  if you could ever make up
your mind to like me a little  if you could
only come for good, you know  *

There was a long pause. Then at length
she spoke in a pained voice.

Oh, Simon, I am so sorry you have
thought of this ! I was afraid, the last day
or two  ' She in her turn paused.

Why, of course,' he remarked simply ;
you must have known, Judith, that I have
cared for you and wanted to marry you for
this long time. But I was afraid there was
no hope.'

'And you would be so much happier
married ! ' she cried regretfully. * Oh,
Simon, take a fancy to some one else !
Why can't you ? You are so good and
kind and true ; you ought not to live all
alone.'

'I would rather not,' he said, with the

same child-like simplicity. ' I am often
lonely, and I think I could make a good
husband. But I could not take a fancy to
any one else. I don't think you know how
I love you, Judith ; it isn't only this last
year or two  I think I have loved you all
your life, since you were a little dark-eyed
girl, laughing and teasing gawky old Simon,
as you called me. But I don't wonder you
can't care for me. I am so much older than
you.'

Not so very much, after all, Simon.'

Fifteen years, I think. And you are so
bright, and I am dull and prosy.'

You are the cleverest friend I have, and
I am proud to be noticed by you ! '

I am not half good enough for you,
whatever you may say. But if you could
have put up with me  '

Don't, Simon, be so humble ! I can't
bear to hear you. You are good enough
for any one.'

But you can't give me any hope, Judith ?
I would wait,' he added, with unconscious
pathos, ' if there were any chance ; aud not
mind anything, if only you could come to
think of it in time  although a man over
fifty has not much time to lose.'

Don't wait, dear Simon, please don't.
I am so fond of you ; but I feel I should
never come to it. Find some one else.'

'Nay, I did not mean that,' he said
quietly. ' If you won't have me, Judith, I
will remain as I am.'

Oh, you mustn't, Simon ! Plenty of
people would be proud to have you 
women younger and prettier than me.'

I don't want anybody younger,' he said
slowly ; ' and you are the prettiest woman
in the world to me, Judith.'

The tears rose to her eyes. ' I wish  how
I wish I could, Simon ! Indeed I do value
you.'

Your life is sometimes lonely, I have

thought, like mine, Judith, though you are
so much younger ; and that gave me
courage to ask you now. Even if you
didn't care very much for me, I thought
you might think of it some day, perhaps.
You would have some one to love you
dearly always, and to shield you all your
life ; and a home where you would be valued
and cared for as you ought to be.'

No, Simon, I would never insult your
chivalry by giving you a Yes out of self-interest;
you are too true a knight. You
are worth a woman's all, and you shall
never have the half from me.'

I would rather have your half than any
other woman's all. Remember that, Judith.
And, if ever there comes any time of sorrow
or loneliness to you, and you feel that  unattractive
as I am  my deep devotion will
be any comfort, that my love is better
than nothing  remember I am always
waiting  I shall never change my mind.'

What ! bring you the dower of a broken-spirited,
worn-out woman ? Never, Simon ! '

He sighed quietly.

'I shall always be ready,' he repeated
sadly. * However you came, whenever you
came, I should still rejoice  it would still
be the best gift in life to me

Judith Collyer held out her hand in
silence to him, and he clasped it for a
moment in both of his.

God bless you, dear Simon, for your
kind words,' she said, after a moment, in a
low voice ; ' it is something to feel one hasa
friend like you in the world.' And she
moved softly out of the room, leaving him
standing before the fireplace.

It was many minutes before he stirred ;
and when at length he did so, he raised one
hand and passed it once or twice across his
forehead, as if to clear away some slight
mist that obscured his vision or his brain.

Then he went out with his usual quiet

step in time to meet Mrs. Brereton in the
hall, and to greet her with his accustomed
courtesy, expressing the pleasure he had
derived from the visit of herself and
her daughter, and his sincere hope that it
would not be the last with which he should
be honoured.

CHAPTER XIII.

NELL DOES BATTLE WITH THE MEN OF HER
HOUSEHOLD.

I am Sir Oracle,
And when I ope my lips, let no dog bark ! '

Shakespeare.

Barrington had intended to escort his
fiancee home, but had been forbidden to do
so, and had submitted, although somewhat
reluctantly. If a battle of any sort were to
be fought, why might he not be there to
bear the worst of it, or at any rate to take
his share of blows in the affray % But Nell
decided otherwise.

No,' she said firmly, in answer to his
expostulations, * I can manage better alone ;
I had rather be by myself. I know papa

will be nasty at first, and I would rather
you were not there. It will blow over, I
think, very soon, and then you shall comedown.'


He guessed one at least of her motives 
that she dreaded anything like an irredeemable
quarrel between himself and her connections,
in consequence of the opposition
which she evidently anticipated on their
part. Perhaps she was wise, although
what right was possessed by the step-father
and brother to interfere, if her mother and
herself approved, he could not at present
perceive. But for her sake he was willing
to avoid any unpleasantness of feeling or
collision of any kind. For his own, he
certainly would not have moved a straw
out of the way to preserve the good-fellowship
of two of the most uncongenial and
unpleasant men he ever remembered encountering.


It was about seven o'clock when Mrs.

Ere'eton aDd her daughter reached home,
a honor drive having succeeded to their
railway journey.

The Cedars was a large house built in
the modern style, with no pretensions to
architecture, but situated in the midst of
a lovely country, with fine grounds of its
own. The surrounding property, consisting
of park and meadow land, a small common,
and an extensive wood, was all well preserved,
since both Mr. Brereton and his son were
fond of sport, which they kept pretty much
to themselves, an extra gun being a somewhat
rare innovation in the shooting season.

Mrs. Brereton was tired with her journey ;
nevertheless, a feeling of nervousness made
her conversational, and she entertained her
husband and stepson at dinner with long
and graphic accounts of Sir Simon's hospitality,
to the ringing of whose praises Mr.
Brereton had no objection. He considered
Sir Simon a pleasant and well-informed

man, and would have accepted his invitation
to the late party himself, had it not
been for business which had compelled him
to be in London just at that time. Eobert
Ling-wood had been asked too,  Sir Simon
was too courteous to leave out this young
man, for whom he had no partiality whatever,
 but he had declined the invitation.
Eobert did not shine in company ; he was
not of a genial or sociable disposition,
neither had he any accomplishments to gain
him popularity. He was, in fact, as a rule,
not appreciated ; and, like many others of
similar disposition, revenged himself by
scoffing at society's charms.

It had been agreed upon between the
mother and daughter that Nell was to
inform her step-father of her engagement
after dinner. Mrs. Brereton had wished to
postpone the evil moment, and, poor soul,
had pleaded hard for one night's peace, but
Nell was resolute.

If a disagreeable thing has to be done,
mother she said, ' the sooner it is got over
the better. Though, for that matter,' she
added, raising her head proudly, ' I don't
know that even papa's opposition will
greatly affect my peace of mind.'

Mrs. Brereton looked at her daughter,
and wondered where she had acquired her
courage. Certainly it was not hereditary,
at least not from her side of the family.
Nell, when she was in earnest over anything,
could face without flinching anger
which would have cowed her, and sneers
which would have crushed her. ' Getting
it over ' was not at all her way of looking
at the disagreeable and the inevitable ;
putting it off' would have been more her
line of action.

She was never great at self-possession ;
and now, with her mind dwelling on the
probable storm in store for her that very
evening, she grew more and more nervous

and confused, and at last stumbled out the
very name she had intended to avoid.
At its mere mention there was a moment's
ominous pause, rendered all the more perceptible
by her own evident embarrassment.
It was so much the worse, inasmuch as the
dessert was now on the table, and the
servants had left the room ; so that no
motives of prudence or propriety need
restrain the tongues she dreaded.

Oh,' said her husband shortly ; ' so
Captain De Witt was there, was he ? I
don't think you made any mention of him
in your letters to me. And yet,' he added
after a moment, during which he had fixed
the unhappy, blushing woman with a severe
stare, ' if I remember right, he was a
favourite of yours abroad, just the sort of
young man you admire  plenty of assurance
and not too much brains ? '

Saying which, and receiving no coherent

reply from his wife, who was floundering
VOL. L T

about in a sea of half-uttered disclaimers,
he relapsed into silence ; and, taking a
pear from the dish before him, began to
peel it.

But his son was not content without
bringing the war into the enemy's camp at
once.

 I suppose,' he remarked with an undisguised
sneer, turning his eye-glass towards
his step-sister, ' that he was busy making
up to you all the time, Nell  at the old

game ? '

Mrs. Brereton gave a frightened glance
in her daughter's direction ; but Nell,
although the crimson colour filled her
cheeks, answered him with a quiet scorn
that was perfectly calm.

Your remarks are characterized by their
usual refinement,' she said, as she rose from
the table to follow her mother.

When, a few minutes later, Mr. Brereton
left the dining-room, she followed him into

the library where he usually spent a post-cranial
hour.

Papa she began abruptly, ' I have
something to tell you

He flung the book he had just taken from
the shelves upon the table.

You needn't tell me 1' he exclaimed
irritably.  Do you think I couldn't see it
from your mother's face ? I didn't think
you would be such a fool, Nell ! '

Papa, heir me out. I am engaged to
Captain De Witt.'

I told you I knew it ! What's the good
of repeating if? I told your mother all
along how it would be  I saw you were
caught. But one niio;ht as well trust the
common sense of a rabbit as put faith in
your mother ! '

Why should I not be caught, as you call
it ? ' asked the girl gravely. ' What is
there about Captain De Witt to make
him undesirable? And why should you

T 2

have ever tried to set mama against
him?'

Oh, I've no patience with such folly !
I should have thought by now, Nell, that
you might have learnt a wiser lesson.'

She drew nearer to him, and looked at
him without anger in her earnest eyes.

Papa, I believe you mean kindly by all
this. I wish to believe it. I think you
really fancy you are saving me from some
danger '

Have you already forgotten,' he interrupted,
' the fate I saved you from once
before ? '

No, papa, I have not forgotten it ; and
I have been grateful to you for so saving
me then. But, because one man is cruel
and heartless, do you mean to tell me that
truth does not exist in the world ? '

I mean to tell you that an infatuated
girl who has lost her heart to a good-looking
fellow, is totally incapable of discriminating.

Who can judge in their own cause  above
all, a silly woman in love ? Pah ! '  and
Mr. Brereton snorted angrily.

Papa, I wish to be patient ; do not
make me lose my temper. You are my
trustee, and were my guardian, so that I
feel I ought to consult you in everything
as much as I can, even if you were not
mama's husband. But is it fair to condemn
a man against whom you know absolutely
nothing, simply from prejudice, born,
I think, of a sort of universal suspicion you
have contracted against all unmarried men V

'I know absolutely nothing of the fellow
in any Vvay ; neither do you, Eleanor. Has
he '  with another snort  * informed you of
his income ? '

No, papa ; men don't make love by
telling their jiancee% how many hundreds or
thousands a year they have. They leave
that till they see the male relations, I
believe. But we know everything about 

him. You cannot say he is a stranger to
you, when you know that he is a cousin of
your old friend, Sir Simon.'

Well, as you make your own bed, so
you will have to lie on it. I can't prevent
you cutting your own throat, if it pleases
you to do so. But I'm sorry for you. It
won't be long before you will rue it.'

Papa, I shall never rue marrying the
man I care for. I am quite determined,
and no opposition can make me change my
mind ; but, for the sake of peace and good
feeling, I would have liked to mitigate your
prejudices. But, when you have seen him
and talked to him, you will perhaps think
differently.'

Never  never ! ' he exclaimed. ' Fair
words are uncommonly easy  especially to
men of that stamp. But, go your own way,
Eleanor, go your own way, until it leads
you over the precipice ! '

His step-daughter could bear no more.

She bad reached the utmost limits of her
patience ; and she hurried from the room
with burning cheeks and a heart beating-fast
with repressed indignation.

Meanwhile Mrs. Brereton had been having
a very mauvais quart dlieure in the
drawing-room with her amiable step-son,
Robert. Had Nell known of his presence,
and of the conversation that had taken
place between her mother and himself,
she certainly would not have returned
thither. But in fact, the young man finding
his step-mother alone, and discovering
that Nell was closeted with his father in
the library, guessed rapidly at the truth,
which he soon succeeded in confirming from
the lips of the elder lady. She was too
weak to stand against a verbal persecution ;
and after all, since Nell was informing
the father, what need to conceal the fact
from the son, his confidant ?

So Eobert soon possessed himself of her

secret, managing* to worm out of her a o;ood
many details ; after which he treated her
to his unvarnished opinion upon the subject,
in language equally unvarnished. The
young man's language could be strong at
times, when there was no restraining presence
by ; and he was not in the habit of
softening its force before Mrs. Brer et on.

But he paused as Nell entered the room.
Nell was a different person from her mother ;
Nell had a high spirit and quick speech ;
and she had sometimes given him glances
from her full dark eyes, or cutting words
from her well-chiselled lips, that, thick-skinned
as he was, had penetrated through
his armour of self-assurance and stung him
pretty deeply. So he held his tongue now,
sulkily  but she was too absorbed to notice
that  longing, yet fearing, to rouse her by
some angry comment.

But it was impossible to him to restrain
his ill-temper long ; and when she rose to

go to bed, bidding him a careless ' goodnight
it broke forth into words.

Why don't you ask me for congratulations
? ' he inquired, with a sneer.

'Because you would not give me them,'
she replied, half wearily ; for her battle in
the library and all the mingled emotions of
the day had almost exhausted her.

But the gentleness of her manner only
encouraged him to proceed to further
lengths.

'Didn't I tell you he was a fortune-hunter,'
he asked, ' as well as a prig ? How
angry you were ! But you have found out
now that your disinterested friend was
making love all the time  blind as you are
I suppose ? '

He stood in her way to the door, and she
waved him aside, as she turned her blazing
eyes for a moment towards him.

'Robert Lingwood,' she said, 'you can
leave Captain De Witt's name alone, if you

please. I am not going to discuss my
affairs with you  disinterested as you are ! '

This was a new shot, and for an instant
he flinched beneath its thrust ; but he
ventured upon a retaliation.

No he remarked, * he can manage all
your affairs for you now, can't he ? I
don't suppose he'll have any objection 
fine gentleman as he is.'

Nell turned at the doorway. Womanlike,
though wearied out, she could not
resist the last word.

Yes,' she retorted, with quiet scorn,
you are quite right  he is a gentleman ;
which you will never be, if you live to bea
hundred, Eobert.'

And she hurried up-stairs  humiliated,
angry, sore at heart, to lock her bed-room
door and hide her face in her hands. Why
was she forced to have her habitation with
such as this man was ? How disgusted,
how wearing, how unbearable was his very

presence  his coarse speeches, and low suspicious
thoughts. How had she ever borne
the degradation for so long ?

And then the tender tears filled her eyes,
and sinking upon her knees, she thanked
God for the love of a man, who, liable
to human failing as he might be, was upright,
sincere, and simple-minded  one to
whom a low and suspicious thought was,
she believed, impossible, and to whom
coarse and unlovely language to a woman
would have been a thing unnatural and
detestable.

CHAPTEE XIV.
'the condition of your pecuniary

AFFAIRS.'

How blest the humble cotta's fate,
He woos his simple dearie ;
The silly bogle, wealth and state,

Can never make them eerie ! '  Burns.

It was the early afternoon of a lovely
September day as Barrington left the train
at the little station of Cotswold Moors, and,
sending his portmanteau to the village inn,
set out to walk the three or four miles
distance to the Cedars. In this primitive
spot a vehicle was not to be procured
without warning ; and, too impatient to wait,
he determined to make his way on foot. It
was a decision which he found no cause to

regret, as, in the peculiar soft balminess of
a fine autumnal day, he turned briskly
down the indicated road, under noble elm-trees
shading undulating stretches of richest
pasture-land, and in sight of distant purple
hills, misty with the mid-day sun.

He had not delayed long after receiving
Nell's letter that morning  a letter of half-wavering
permission, rather than of cordial
invitation for his visit to her home. The
poor girl was not quite sure whether she
had done wisely now in telling him to
come, and certainly did not expect that h6
would have acted so promptly upon the
permission. But the intuition that it was
possible she might by the next post revoke
her words, caused Barrington to be off at
once. The week that had already passed
since parting with his fiancee had been a
long one ; he desired to see Mr. Brereton
and understand the position of affairs, and
chafed at the idea of being kept out of the

way until Nell had smoothed matters into
shape. He was more at his ease now than
he had been all the week, and whistled ashe
went along the solitary road. He had
no wish, however, unnecessarily to lengthen
his walk ; and, as he was not quite sure
that the direction he had taken was the
right one, he presently paused and looked
about him for sight of a homestead or a
wayfarer.

Homestead there appeared to be none,
within any reasonable distance at least ;
but a wayfarer presently came in sight, and
one who was sure to know the country 
since he was a sportsman with a gun over
his shoulder. On nearer approach he
seemed to be a gamekeeper  a heavy, big
young man, with a somewhat sullen face,
and dark, passionate-looking eyes. He
was civil enough, however, when accosted,
and at once pointed out the path to the
stranger.

Do you want to go to the house itself,
sir?' he asked. 'Well then, you had
better return a few yards, and cross the
stile where you saw me come over. That
path will lead you to the wood. You must
go on past the cottage at the outskirts of
it till you come to an iron fence and gateway
; and that will lead you into the park
itself.'

Barrington thanked him and went on,
noticing as he neared the cottage, a singularly
pretty girl, who emerged from the
wood, and after a moment's blushing pause,
dropped him a curtsey and disappeared
through the doorway. A few minutes later
he was beside the iron gate, and, as he
opened it, perceived in front of him a figure
slouching forwards with a gait he seemed
to recognize. As the gate fell to with
a sharp click, the figure turned, revealing
the features of Robert Brereton. His face
expressed some astonishment, but little

cordiality ; and had it been possible, he
would probably have walked on without
recognizing the other.

Their eyes, however, had met, and he
was forced to stand still and offer some sort
of greeting as the other came up. Barrington
held out his hand frankly, and the
young man was obliged to take it in his
limp fingers. To De Witt's mind he was
the veriest little cad that could well be
picked up on a day's journey ; but he was
Nell's step-brother, and therefore to be
treated civilly, even if it had not been,
natural to the former to treat every one
with a good-humoured tolerance.

'Are you going my way  towards the
house ? ' he asked, as he dropped into line
with young Brereton.

Well, yes, I'm going home. I didn't
know you were coming over,' he added
slowly.

*No more did I until this morning. I

am coming to pay a short visit only. I
shall return to the inn and sleep there. I
hope your father is in ? '

Well, yes, I believe the governor is in.'

What a fine park this is ! '
It's not bad.'

Have you much game about ? '
Pretty fair.'

I met a lovely girl coming out of the
wood, who went into the cottage just there.
Who is she ? '

She's Barrett the gamekeeper's daughter.'

It was a gamekeeper  a young man 
who showed me the way from the highroad.
Is he another friend of yours ? '

Will Barrett  the son, I suppose,' replied
Robert ; and Barrington, suddenly
catching sight of his features, saw a deep
scowl passing over them. It was clear that
the young gamekeeper was no favourite
with his companion.

Conversation, however  at no time one
VOL. I. u

of Eobert Brereton's accomplishments 
seemed more than ever to fail him to-day ;
and presently also De Witt, feeling that he
had done his duty, relapsed into a silence
which lasted until they had reached the house.

Barrington had been uncertain whether
to ask first for Nell, or to go at once to
business with her step-father ; consequently
he felt somewhat relieved when the man
who opened the door, volunteered the information
that the ladies were out driving
tog-ether, but that the latter was in his
library, alone.

Accordingly, he sent in his card; and
shortly afterwards following it, was ushered
into Mr. Brereton's presence. His welcome,
he could not but feel, was a little stiff ; but
that he had expected. There were no
doubt many reasons why that gentleman
should find it hard to look with eyes of
favour upon his step-daughter's suitor  not
the least perhaps, being the fact that, on

her marriage, he would be a loser by the
thousand pounds a year allowed for her
home expenses  but that might wear off, or
if it did not, amounted to but little. No
doubt Nell was an heiress  how great he
neither knew nor eared  and, being a man
to whom the notion of living on his wife's
money is unpalatable, Barrington considered
that fact in the light of a misfortune ; but
he was by no means penniless himself, and
had, even now, enough to keep a wife in
comfort, if not in luxury ; so that he felt in
no whit ashamed of himself, nor inclined to
be cowed by any want of cordiality.

'You know what I have come about, Mr.
Brereton ? ' he said, so soon as the door
had closed upon the servant.

The latter motioned him gravely, almost
sententiously, towards a chair.

Well, yes, Captain De AVitt  I suppose

I must admit that I do.'

Pompous old beggar ! ' thought De Witt

u 2

to himself; but aloud he continued, good-humouredly,


I should have liked to come at once and
talk over matters with you, but your stepdaughter
wished me to wait.'

Yes  yes,' muttered Mr. Brereton in
the same manner ; ' she has told me something
of the  the views which you  and
she  entertain towards one another.'

Well,' said Barrington ; ' and now, if you
will permit me, I will tell you more  tell
you in fact anything you may choose to
ask  for, as her late guardian, you of course
take the place of her late father.'

And as her present trustee,' interrupted
the other dryly.

True, as her trustee also. But I shall
not give you much trouble on that head, I
hope, Mr. Brereton. I don't know what is
Nell's fortune  I have never cared to inquire
 but I believe it is considerable.
Whatever it is, however, you have my full

consent to settle it in its entirety upon lier
personally  I shall never want to touch
it

That is a generous proposal remarked
the elder man ; and Barrington fancied he
detected a flavour of sarcasm in his tone.

Well, you see, it is Nell herself that I
want, not her money.'

That is what young men usually say,
when they are  in love.'

Barrington was beginning to grow impatient,
and, without taking any notice of
this last remark, he plunged into business
details, regarding his own affairs and prospects.
His companion, he could see, was
listening attentively ; but at the end made
no comment.

So you see, Mr. Brereton, I have a
sufficiency to offer your step-daughter now,
although I hope to have a better home for
her some day.'

Your affairs appear to me to be somewhat

involved replied his companion. ' Is
not your income more in the future than
the present, Captain De Witt?'

Not at all said Barrington ; ' I consider
that my means are enough to satisfy any
woman who loves me, although I may not
be a rich man.'

Possibly, Captain De Witt ; but perhaps
not enough to satisfy her guardians, who
are bound to look more closely after her
welfare than she is likely or able to do
herself. Pardon me ; but you must allow
me to think over this matter. You are
not the first suitor I have had for Eleanor's
hand.'

Of course not. But perhaps I am the
first she herself has chosen ? '

That does not  ought not to weigh so
much with me as you seem to think. I am
bound, as the trustee of her interests, to be
very prudent, very cautious for her.'

I am willing to wait and let you think

it over, Mr. Brereton, if you wish for time
to get accustomed to the idea ; but I am
bound to tell you that I shall not change
my purpose, nor can I see any reasonable
grounds for your objections.'

Captain De "VVitt, you must pardon me.
I have gone through a great deal of this
sort of think;. I have sometimes wished,'
he continued, with irritation half-real, half-assumed,
*that I could wash my hands
wholly of the burden of it all. A girl
handsome and rich is a great responsibility.
Excuse me if I say that men with greater
pretensions than you have, before now,
been considered ineligible for my stepdaughter,
Eleanor, by her mother and
myself.'

Do her own inclinations go for nothing,
then?'

She is young and impulsive. She is
totally unfit to steer her own course, both
on account of her age and disposition

Well, Mr. Brereton, I do but waste your
time and words. I should be glad to have
your approbation, and hope that it may
come in time. Perhaps you will write
to me in the course of a few days when
you have thought things over ; and I
shall be very glad to come down at anytime
from town, if you wish to see me again.'

And with the stiffest and coldest of
hand-shakes from his companion, Barrington
got himself out of the room, breathing
a sigh of relief when once outside that uncongenial
atmosphere.

What a mercy that he had not lost his
temper ! He had been perilously near doing
so more than once ; but fortunately nature
had endowed him with a naturally easygoing
and placable disposition. He would
have been sorry openly to quarrel with his
frances step-father, little as he cottoned to
that prim and fussy individual.

But he was not going to depart without

a sio;ht of Nell's sweet face : and hearing"
from the servant that they had just returned
from their drive, he had himself ushered
into the empty drawing-room, boldly sending
up a card to both ladies.

In a moment Nell was down, holding his
hands in hers, standing before him, blushing,
smiling  with radiant eyes, and a face full
of happiness. She had had a trying week,
but it was all forgotten in his presence.

I never knew you were here,' she
whispered, when at length he released her.
Oh, Barrington, how naughty of you to
come without telling me ! '

Did you think I was going to wait any
longer ? ' he asked, impudently. ' I thought
I came down to see your step-father ; but
now I know I came down for a sight of
you, my darling 1 Nell, Nell, what a sweet,
lovely child you are! you turn my head
when I look at you. How have I done
without a kiss for a whole week ? '

Oh, Barrington, don't 1 I think you are
going crazy ! And what has papa said to
you ? He coiddnt, surely, be veri nasty
to you ? '

Never mind him ; he will work right,
Nell ; he must work right.'

He is so hard  so cold and calculating,
Barrington ; you don't know.'

But, my dear little girl, he can't prevent
us marrying, if it comes to facts. And he
is wiser than to fight long against the
inevitable. You are your own mistress.'

'But it would make me very miserable,
Barrington dear, to do anything without
their sanction. I don't care much for papa,
I know ; but poor mama  she is bound
up in him, and she can'fc bear going against
him. She couldn't do it  and yet she hates
vexing me. Poor mother ! '

We will get our own way in times he
repeated. ' Is it too late, Nell, for pretty
little girls to go out walking ? I could talk
so much better out of the house.'

I will come. Oh, it does seem hard
that I cannot even ask you to spend the
night here ! '

Never mind, dear. I dare say the
village bed won't be harder than the Capri
one. And I will come round this way in
the morning, in case a certain fair damsel
should be out, and feel inclined for an early
stroll in the park  say at ten o'clock, or
thereabouts ? That will give me plenty of
time to catch the mid day train.'

Of course I will be ready. But it seems
so horrid to have to meet in that way,
like '

*Like James and Mary, or a couple of
intending burglars ? It is infra dig. But
then, it is our own choice, you know. I
presume Mr. Brereton would not order his
menials to thrust me from the seigneurs
door, were I to ring the bell ; nor, I suppose,
could any one prevent your receiving me
like any other visitor in the drawing-room.'

True,' she said, a little sadly.

 We are neither of us the least ashamed
of ourselves ; are we, Nell ? '

Ashamed ! Oh, Barrington, I am proud
proud of your caring for me  so proud
of you yourself. I don't think you ever
could do a mean or ignoble thing  you
must always be a gentleman

Well, a gentleman isn t so very scarce
an article now-a-days, I hope, as you seem
to imply, Nell

 A perfect gentleman is very rare, I
think, Barrington. One who would never
be rough to a woman, or domineering to
those in his power ; never sneering, never
sarcastic. You could never do any of
those things, Barrington ! I think you
would always be courteous to me, however
lonsj we  knew each other.'

If I weren't, I should be a brute, my
darling. But don't make a hero out of a
terribly commonplace fellow.'

There was a time when I distrusted
every one, you know, Barrington. I don't

think it was my nature ; but it was impressed
upon me daily to be suspicious.
But now I look upon every one more kindly
not only because I am so happy, but
because I have learnt to trust. It has
taught me to feel that there may be good
in every one.'

seven in Eobert, Nell?'

*Yes, perhaps  even in Robert. I have
tried to be more patient, even with him,
the last few days.'

'And if I were to disappoint you, Nell,
would your heart then harden up to the
world at large, and would your faith inhuman
nature die a sudden, violent death ? '

She paused a moment. Then she raised
her full clear eyes to his, shining with the
light of an earnest conviction.

*Even then, Barrington, I could never
be the same as I was before  I could never
be so hard again. I should feel that you
had loved me once, that I had once been
proud of you  and no after events could

destroy that knowledge. But,' she added
solfty, ' you never will disappoint me  I
shall always be proud of you

He put his arm round her silently, for
he was moved ; and like the men of our
northern race, had an incapacity at such
times for the finding of words to express
himself.

But he knew not then how those words
of hers would be tested to their foundation,
not so many weeks hence ; nor how they
would then recur to him again and again,
in mingled remorse and consolation, as he
drank of the cup of human agony, and
went down to the depths of the valley of
humiliation.

CHAPTER I.

Crossed SWORDS.

God ofttimes would enrich,
But finds not where to place
His treasure  nor in hand
Nor heart a vacant place.'  Old MSS.

The next day Barrington returned to
town by the mid day train. He was more
in love than ever ; but inclined to take Mr.
Brereton's opposition with a good-humoured
indifference, in the face of his happy conviction
that no earthly influence would be
likely to shake Nell's constancy. He was

VOL. II. B

only sorry for her, poor child, having to
undergo harassing discussions and perhaps
petty persecutions on the score of her
engagement ; but he felt clear that all this
would in time blow over, and he and his
fiancee be able to see each other, as was
fitting, at her own home. For the present,
however, they must content themselves with
the prospect of meeting shortly in the house
of a friend near London, where Nell was
engaged to pay a visit, and where he had
promised to call upon her.

Meanwhile, Barrington was once more in
his London chambers, seeing a good many
friends, and dining out a good deal, but
employed also in some business transactions,
which took up a fair amount of time and
thought. These transactions had for basis
the effort he was making to understand
more exactly the condition of his own

affairs, pecuniary and otherwise ; and to see
how far it would be feasible and advisable,
in the event of his marriage, for him to
take up his permanent abode at his childhood's
home. He had every confidence in
the lawyer who had charge of his affairs ;
and until now had made no great attempt
to comprehend legal details or precise facts
and figures. But now he felt it was a
different matter. He must know exactly
how far he was correct in believing himself
to be in a position to marry a woman
accustomed to every refinement and luxury
of life ; and also whether it would be in his
power to bring her to the home where
undoubtedly she would be likely to hold
a better position than elsewhere.

The result of his investigations was on
the whole a cheering one.

All his father's creditors had been satis

2

find, and one or two of the principal mortgages
on the property paid off. The present
income was not a large one, but it was
upon the increase ; and, with care in his
expenditure, there was no reason why he
should not return to his father's county, and
to the family home.

These details were in their course duly
transmitted to Mr. Brereton, who received
them politely, but with a guarded caution.
That they were not without their effect,
however, was shown by the fact that Nell
began now to hint at the possibility of an
invitation arriving soon for him to the
Cedars, and to speak of her stepfather's
opposition as gradually dying away into a
mere querulous irritability. She did not,
however, tell him how hard a battle she
had fought to wring this invitation from
Mr. Brereton ; nor how bitter had been the

sneers of her step-brother when informed of
the intention. It was quite curious to
note the exceeding antipathy felt by Robert
Brereton towards De Witt. He would
probably, however, have experienced small
cordiality towards any man aspiring to be
Nell's husband ; and this for substantial
although not highly honourable reasons.

If Mr. Brereton were fond of money,
his son Robert was mean and covetous ;
if the father were irritable and unpleasant-tempered,
the son was morose and vindictive.
He was his father intensified and

narrowed, mentally and morally the type

which, in the elder man, was not a lofty one,
in the younger was still further debased.

Mr. Brereton was close in regard to
money matters, but to a certain degree he
was just and honourable ; it is more than
doubtful whether this could be said of

Eobert, who moreover was extravagant
and even dissipated  unknown to the elder
man, who was strict to severity, as the other
knew, on all matters pertaining to morality.

It was undoubtedly a sore point with
Mr. Brereton to contemplate the loss of his
step-daughter's income from the general
fund, justly as he told himself he had
applied it to her sole use and benefit ; but
to Robert, who foresaw, at her departure,
a shortened allowance, fewer horses to ride,
a less luxuriously appointed table  and to
whom all these things meant the very
essence of life, the enjoyments for which
he existed, it was a fact to be regarded
with unmitigated anger and disgust.

But this was not all. His dislike was
not general only ; it was also personal.
It was Barrington's usual fate to go through
life making many friends and few enemies ;

but, in this case, perhaps the very qualities
which gave him popularity with the world
at large, had most excited the animosity of
Eobert Brereton. Much as the latter declared
he despised society, yet in his heart
he most hated those men, whose unlikeness
to himself made them most shine in society ;
and De Witt's easy good-breeding, as much
as his good looks and imperturbable sweet
temper, he felt to be, on all occasions when
they had been in each other's company, a
most undesirable and humiliating foil to
his own manners and appearance. Then,
too, despite the good-humoured politeness
of Barrington's tone and manner, he had
somehow arrived at a suspicion of the
light in which the other really regarded
him. I suppose the poorest nature is not
beneath some faint desire for its own good
opinion and the good opinion of others ;

and probably the least gentlemanly man
breathing would rather not be thought a cad.

Be that as it may, Robert Brereton did
not love his future brother-in-law ; and
the latter might be said to reciprocate the
feeling thoroughly after his own fashion.

John Ponsonby had been a frequent
caller at Barrington's rooms, as frequent at
least as his now busy career would permit /
him to be. The two had taken to each
other first in the Naples hotel, and now
renewed the intimacy, smoking many a
quiet cigar over De Witt's fire, or dining
together snugly at Ponsonby's club, preparatory
to an evening stroll, or the seeing
of a new play.

Ponsonby amused his friend considerably
one night. He was often amusing,
but usually consciously so. To-night he
provided his companion with entertainment

of an involuntary nature, as he sat stretching
his legs out towards the pleasant blaze,
and enjoying, with a sybaritic calm, the
warm room with its heavy curtains that
shut out the remains of a dull October
day.

John Ponsonby was erratic in all his
movements, and he now suddenly leapt to
his feet and bent over the mantelpiece.

Who's that 1 ' he asked, indicating a
vignette photograph that adore ed the mirror.
What a beautiful face, by Jove ! You
hadn't that here before, De Witt.'

I'm glad you like her,' said Barrington
smiling ; * for she is a great friend of mine.'

Not your fiancee ? '

Rather not ! '

I don't see any rather about it. You
might be proud enough if she were.'

Barrington broke into a peal of laughter

laughter which was so infectious, because
he always seemed to enjoy it so much
himself  but John Ponsonby looked at him
puzzled and half frowning.

Don't be hot about it, old fellow ! I'm
a great admirer of hers too, I assure you,
though she isn't my fiancee. But she's
single, if you like to try your chance.
Only I warn you she is older than you

Really r asked the other. 'Then this
photograph has been taken some time ? '

*No, only last year. She doesn't look a
day older than that ; and she is very pretty.
But I couldn't very well marry her, John,
seeing that she is my aunt.'

Your aunt ! Impossible ! '

Barrington burst into another peal.

Poor old Pon ! Don't look so disappointed.
AVait till you see her. I believe
it's a real case of love at first sight.'

Ponsonby returned to his seat, first administering
a shake e7i passant to his
friend's shoulder.

Stop that guffawing, you fool you ! I
never saw such a fellow as you for enjoying
jokes that no one else sees

I so seldom have the chance of laughing
at you, Ponsonby. You barristers are too
sharp to be caught often. You're so
accustomed to make everybody else ridiculous
that it's extra sweet to turn the tables
on you.'

An hour later, when Ponsonby rose to
go, taking another cigar from Barrington's
box to console him on his way, he turned
for ODe more glance at the photograph.

I wonder now,' he remarked speculatively,
 how it came to pass that a woman
with a face like that remained unmarried ? '

Not for want of the asking, I imagine,'

replied Barrington with a smile ; for a man

in love is apt to drop some of the more

conceited dogmas of his sex.

I suppose she was hard to please,' said

Ponsonby, as he struck a fusee.

'She hadn't seen you then, my dear

fellow you know ! '

And she's your aunt ! Good Heavens ! '
Well, she isn't so very old for all that.'
What does she do with herself ? '
Well, till the last two years she was

always busy nursing an invalid mother.

Now, she's dead, and Aunt Judy lives with

a widowed friend of hers in Kensington.'
*Aunt Judy! Good Lord!' ejaculated

his companion, as he slowly lit his cigar

and turned to go, indifferent to Barrington's

amused countenance.

A day or two after this De Witt called

at the house of the friend with whom Miss

Lingwood was staying, and who, having
been put au fait of the latter's engagement,
good-naturedly planned so that the two
should spend several hours together ; and
here Nell informed him that he was expected
shortly at her own home, and that
even now a letter was on its way, she
believed, containing Mr. Brereton's invitation.
Sir Simon, she said, had written a
most kind and cordial note of congratulation
to his old acquaintance, Mr. Breretori,
speaking in terms of affection of his young
cousin ; and this incident it was, Nell
thought, which had finally broken down the
last straw of opposition, and convinced her
step-father that he must openly countenance
the engagement.

The next morning the letter arrived ; and
a week later saw De Witt on his way from
Town to the little station of Cotswold Moors.

A carriage and pair met him this time,
and he drove up in state to the Cedars, Mr.
Brer e ton greeting him upon his arrival after
a fashion that was perfectly civil if not
exactly cordial, whilst Mrs. Brereton, no
longer obliged to warp lier natural inclinations
by the force of circumstances and the
pressure of her husband's will, at once
resumed a kindly, almost affectionate,
manner. She was the most lenient and
good-natured of chaperones ; indeed she
seemed inclined to consider chaperonage
scarcely necessary betwixt Nell and her
affianced lover, and let the two young
people manage matters pretty much as it
pleased them. Mr. Brereton, it seemed to
De Witt, spent the greater part of the day
in his study, transacting magistrate's business
or writing letters. His only other
occupation of interest appeared to be an

incessant criticism, generally unfavourable,
of the mode in which the cook sent up the
details of the breakfast or dinner, on which
subject he worried his wife a good deal.
He troubled Barrington little, however,
rarely addressing him except during mealtimes,
when the conversation of every one
was apt to be a little stiff and disjointed.
The only member of the household who in
any way interfered with the enjoyment of
the two was Robert ; and neither of them
could have told why it was that Eobert
was such a perpetual thorn in the flesh to
both.

Robert never opened a book, and had
no private den to which to retire ; hence,
except when out with his gun, he was
usually to be seen with his hands in his
pockets standing before the fireplace or
gazing out of the window, or maybe

wandering aimlessly from room to room
with no apparent purpose.

He was more taciturn than ever in De
Witt's presence ; and the latter felt intuitively
that he hated him. He seemed
to have a talent  perhaps the only one
he possessed  of conveying insult by his
manner, and a sneer by his looks, whilst
avoiding open or verbal incivility.

At first Barrington took little notice of
this ; but, as by degrees he observed more
of the nature of the young man, he came
to the conclusion that Eobert was not
merely an unpleasant companion, but that
he could also be a dangerous opponent.
There was more of cunning and of a certain
low ability about him than Barrington
had at first supposed. He was, he began
to think, less foolish and more vicious
than he had at first appeared to be. He

began to avoid Nell's step-brother, and
to address him as little as possible ; and
he sometimes found himself enoraoed ina
half-contemptuous scrutiny of the latter,
which was possibly perceptible to its
object.

Nell was sorry to see the growing dislike
between the two young men ; but how could
she blame her fiance? He was always
polite outwardly to Eobert, as to every one ;
and could she be astonished if the expression
of his features manifested feelings
which in her heart she fully shared ? Mrs.
Brereton, however, before whom perhaps
Eobert may have displayed his more unreserved
animosity, was frightened by the
strength of the latter's dislike, and greatly
dreaded her husband's making the discovery
of this reciprocal and unfortunate sentiment,

which, with her usual good-natured but not
VOL. II. c

over-wise mode of tactics, she strove to
disguise or to smooth over.

Matters, however, after a while culminated,
and determined De Witt to bring his
visit to a somewhat abrupt conclusion.
The climax came about on this wise. He
was seated one morning on the stile leading
from the park towards the wood, smoking
an early cigar, when he noticed Will
Barrett approaching from the direction
of the cottage. The young gamekeeper
had his head bent downwards, and he
did not seem to observe Barrington at
first.

Good morning,' said the latter, with a
friendly nod, 'where are we going to shoot
to-day ? '

Will glanced up hastily, and I)e Witt
saw that his face was crimson, and his eyes
full of a suppressed rage.

He stood still, touching his cap instinctively
; but it was clear that he had not
heard the question addressed to him.

Are you a friend of the young squire
up there ? ' he asked, with uncontrollable
passion, pointing with his thumb towards
the Cedars.

De Witt removed his cigar from his lips,
and gazed at him in astonishment without
replying. The young man was usually so
civil, that, although reported to be of a
violent temper, the transformation of his
ordinary quiet taciturn manner was startling.

Because, if you are,' he continued, in the
same tone, ' you may warn him not to go
hanging about our house any more, or he'll
pay for it ! '

And before Barrington had time to reply,
he was off, and had disappeared down one of
the winding paths with a rapid, angry stride.



The incident made an impression, as was
natural, upon De Witt's mind ; but he kept
it to himself for some days, drawing his
own conclusions of the truth  conclusions
necessarily unflattering to Eobert Brereton.
It was no part of his duty to bestow upon
that young man a warning which might
possibly have, for sole result, the dismissal
of Will Barrett from his situation. His
sympathies entirely sided with the young
gamekeeper, who, moreover, excited his
amused pity by the nervous civility of his
manner on the next occasion of their
coming into contact with each other.

Poor Will seemed to have repented
heartily of his temporary display of passion,
and to be terribly afraid lest Barrington
should deliver him up to judgment. His
politeness became almost servile to the
guest, and brought a smile to the lips of the

latter, after the first incident had almost
faded from his memory.

A few days later, however, it recurred to
this mind. It was on a damp, chilly afternoon
 too raw a day for Nell, who had a
slight cold, to go out  when, returning
homewards from a solitary stroll with his
gun, two or three birds in his pocket, he
saw coming towards him down the avenue,
Eobert Brereton and Lucy Barrett, side by
side. There was no by-path of any sort ;
but, on perceiving his approach, the young
girl broke away hastily from her companion,
and fled onwards, passing De Witt without
recognition, and with a shamefaced air.
Eobert paused a moment in deliberation ;
then he turned leisurely to go homewards,
his pace so slow that De AVitt could scarcely
avoid coming up with him.

The latter, however, had taken his resolution,

and, as he reached young Brereton,
paused and walked beside him. Something
about the pretty, terrified face of the poor
child who had scudded past him like a
frightened hare, seemed to appeal to his
sense of manliness, to his protection. To
any man worth his salt, who is in love,
all women become, after a fashion, as sisters
the honour of all and every one is sacred.

He felt his task the easier as he glanced
towards the countenance of his companion,
rendered even less attractive than usual by
its undisguised temper.

Why don't you let that girl alone ? ' he
asked tersely. ' You will have an account
to settle with her brother some day, I
expect, if you don't look out.'

Why don't you mind your own business
? ' retorted the other.

It's every man's business to keep a nice

girl from being ruined,' was the prompt
reply.

Robert Brereton's face, as he turned it
towards his companion, was not pleasant to
see.

De Witt had not thought it capable of
so much energy of expression ; and for a
moment it almost raised his opinion of the
young man to find he had it in him to go
into a rousing passion.

You whitewashed, insufferable dandy ! '
he exclaimed, throwing off all disguise of
the feelings he entertained towards De
Witt ; ' what do you mean by interfering
in my affairs ? Do you think I want your
advice how to conduct myself ? '

Barrington shrugged his shoulders with a
contemptuous smile.

You will do as you please, of course,' he
said. ' I have given you my warning.'

And who cares for your warning, do you
think ? Doesn't your own game content
you ?  establishing yourself in my father's
house, and never speaking a civil word to
him or me '

You don't suppose that I came down for
the pleasure of seeing you ? ' asked De Witt.

But his calmness only seemed to add fuel
to the flames of the other's fury.

No,' he retorted, ' I'm not quite such
a fool as to think that. I saw your
game at Capri. You ain't the first fortune-hunter
I've met  with all your hypocritical
moralities ! '

De Witt stood a moment before him in
the path, barring the way. A slight flush
had risen to his sunburnt cheek, but his
tone was quieter than ever.

That will do he said, looking down
upon his companion from his superior

height ; ' no more of that, if you please.
Leave out allusions to  to Miss Lingwood.
I have no wish to kick you as you deserve,
because you cannot help being an unmitigated
snob ; but, if you bring in her name
again, I will knock you head over heels into
that brushwood ! So look out.'

Eobert stuttered, and, for a moment,
looked as if he was inclined to strike at
his companion ; but if so, he thought better
of the temptation, and with a muttered
curse walked on. De Witt allowed him
to pass, and turning back, sought another,
longer, route to the house.

It was not a comfortable idea to have
to return to the Cedars ; it is not an
agreeable thing to sit at the dinner-table
opposite your host's son, directly after
informing him that you consider him an
unmitigated snob, and have offered to

knock him over ; but, under certain circumstances,
it is a discomfort which has to
be endured.

Barrington, however, at once decided to
leave the house the next day ; a decision
not affected by the fact that the other
members of the Brereton family party
clearly as yet knew no more of the fracas
between the two, than might be guessed
from the more than usually savage acerbity
of Robert's manner at table. After De
Witt's departure, no doubt he might
possibly make capital out of the quarrel ;
but, for the present, he evidently and
wisely dreaded the origin of the dispute
reaching his father's ears.

So Barrington, unwilling to state the
truth, had to make what excuses he could ;
a course which was rendered the easier by
the fact that he had already remained

almost as long as he intended with his

o

frances relations. Nell, however, guessed
the facts at once, and taxed him with them.

You and Robert have fallen out,' she
exclaimed, when he informed her of his
intended departure the following day. ' I
knew it must come to that soon.'

But Barrington would give her no answer
but a smile.

Don't you think I've been here long
enough ? ' he asked. ' I'm afraid I have
tired every one out but you, Nell. But I
shall be down again in December. I can't
do longer than that without a sight of you.'

You will come to this house, Barrington ? '

I think not, my darling. I shall probably
put up at the village inn, and come
over to see you every day. And I will
bring down my horse, and we will have
some rides together.'

Nell made no reply, but her face looked
a little sad and wistful ; and he planted a
kiss upon the thoughtful frown that marked
the white forehead.

And then in March, my queen  no more
separation, no more village inns, no more
Roberts after that ! What a shame it should
be March  why couldn't it be December ? '

Yes, I think of that time, Barrington,
when I feel I am losing patience and
growing angry with these people who don't
care for you. I say to myself it is only a
little test  and perhaps a useful one. I must
not grow irritable with them, and let myself
be soured in temper ; nor must I worry
over it, for fear it should make me grow
old and ugly in face ! And oh, Barrington,
I know I have a naughty temper, and I do
worry  how I wish I were like you, who
are always sweet-tempered.'

Don't, my darling he whispered, as he
took her in his arms ; ' you humiliate me
by talking so. It makes me feel sad to
leave you, my Nell  I know your home is
not as happy a one as it might be.'

'Dear mother means to be kind, Barrington
; she cannot help being swayed by
papa in everything ; and it is better for her
that she should not have an obstinate
nature, like me. But I am happy, dear.
So long as we are one I can never be
anything else.'

God bless you ! ' he said softly ; and fora
little while they sat on in the gathering
twilight of the autumn day, in a silence full
of that sweet unspoken sympathy which
must surely be the speech of heaven.

CHAPTER 11.

A FATEFUL MEETING.

No rush of the mournful waters
Breaks on the ear 
To tell us, when Hfe is strongest,
That death flows near.'  B. M.

It was a beautiful January day  such a
day as our continental neighbours, as well
as many of ourselves, are in the habit of
considering the exclusive property of the
genial South, but which are, nevertheless,
not so uncommon to England  clear, bright
and sunny, with a blue sky and a suspicion
of frost, but not a suspicion of wind to
accentuate the frost.

To De Witt  in the prime of life and

health, going to meet the girl he loved,
rich in friends, devoid of cares, and anticipating
a happy future  it seemed as if the
crisp brilliancy of the afternoon, so congenial
to his cheerful mood, excelled in
beauty that of any previous winter s day ;
and as he walked along the country lanes
leading towards the Cedars, he alternately
whistled and sang, every now and then
sliding with boyish energy down some
more propitious-looking rut or other that
gave a faint indication of ice.

Waif, as usual, shared his companion's
mood  for never was dog more completely
oDe with his master than this dog  careering
back and forwards with an utterly lost
sense of dignity, and giving vent to an
occasional sharp, short bark of pure enjoyment,
as he madly circled round, in true
colles-wise.

They were now approaching the drive
and plantation ; and as De "Witt vaulted
the stile leading into the grounds, he recalled
with a smile the last parting between
Nell and himself, when she had escorted
him to this spot on his way to the station
some weeks ago. Five wrecks ! It was a longtime
to have been without a sight of her
sweet face. And still nearly three months
before she would be his, for good and all.

What unnecessary delay, enforced merely
for the satisfying of old Brereton's whims 1
Perhaps  poor old beggar  it did come
rather rough on him to have to give up
that thousand per annum ; after twelve
years ordering, it must seem a grievance
to lose it. No wonder he did not look
with eyes of overweening affection upon
his future step-son-in-law. It was but
human nature.

For his part, Barrington would have been
quite willing to let him keep Nell's minority
allowance  the residue of her fortune to
come to her, according to the conditions of
her father's will, on the attainment of her
twenty-fourth birthday, was enough and
more than he desired in the way of his wife's
dowry ; but bequests, he knew, were not so
easy to set aside, and wills have to be
carried out. What was the exact amount of
the girl's fortune he was even yet not quite
clear ; but that he would have preferred it
less, he honestly felt. He did not despise
money, for  as has been justly said  none
but fools do that ; but he cared little about
the possession of wealth, especially when
accruing to him from the side of the wife.
He had always been in the habit of rather
pitying men who married great heiresses,
as placing themselves in an unpleasant

VOL II. D

position ; and at first had experienced something
of a repulsion against the fact in his
own case. But he had ceased to think of
it of late. He loved Nell too exclusively
for herself to trouble himself any longer
about extraneous matters such as these.

His arrival to-day was a little bit of a
surprise to her. He had written to tell her
he was coming down, but only the night
before. He had preferred this course, intending,
as he did, to put up at the village
inn. Even had he been pressed to do so, he
could not take up his quarters at the Cedars.
Large house as it was, it was not large
enough for himself and Robert Brereton.

At this moment he started, for a gun
was fired off but a few paces from him,
and the shot whistled almost around his
ears, coming apparently from a side-path
parallel with the main avenue down which

he walked. Into this path he turned aside
quickly. Whatever sportsman were playing
this foolish little game must be stopped 
a dose of even small shot in the face would
be neither agreeable nor strictly ornamental,
either for himself or Waif.

Waif, by the bye, was out of sight for a
moment ; what was the dog doing ?  was
he getting; into mischief?

Suddenly a voice fell upon his ear, and
he turned the corner more rapidly, whilst
his face took a new expression.

I'll teach you to come poaching, you
infernal hound ! ' growled discordant tones ;
and as Waif leapt backwards to meet his
master, De Witt came face to face with
Robert Brereton, his gun still smoking, the
elder keeper behind him.

De Witt pressed his lips together with an
unusual movement.

D 2

Did you aim at my dog ? ' he inquired
in calm accents, with a dangerous light
in his blue eyes.

I wish I'd hit him ! ' was the amiable
response.

Allow me then to tell you two things
observed the other, keeping his self-control
with an effort. ' In the first place, that he
does not poach ; and secondly, that it will
be the worse for any one who injures him.'

Barrett has orders to shoot all dogs
found trespassing,' remarked Eobert with
a sneer ; * so you had better look after him
if you value him so highly. You know
your orders, Barrett. I don't care whose
dog it is  if he comes poaching on these
preserves, he'll be shot.'

Barrington's face had grown white with
anger.

Touch him at your peril,' he said turning

towards the gamekeeper. 'Possibly, however,
you have more sense and courtesy
than your master.'

Brereton marched up to his companion,
fury depicted on his features.

Leave my servants alone, will you ? ' he
asked. * And take your confounded insolence
elsewhere.' He finished with an oath,
and seemed more than half-inclined to strike
the other, who stood before him with hands
in his pockets, contemptuous and silent ;
when old Barrett interfered, stepping hastily
between the two.

Don't you be afraid, sir,' he remarked
to De Witt ; * there won't no harm come to
your dog through me.'

Like others of the servants, it was quite
possible that he was not over partial to his
young master, and had himself suffered
from his overbearing temper.

His intervention, however, was of service ;
both young men paused, De Witt, followed
by Waif, turning upon his heel and
retracing his steps to the broad avenue ;
whilst Eobert, after glaring a moment
savagely after the retreating figure, also
continued his way in sullen silence.

De Witt paced on but slowly towards the
house, for he was annoyed by this second
encounter with his fiancee's step-brother.
His wrath, always short and but rarely
roused, had quickly faded ; and he began to
take himself to task for the disturbance.
It was impossible to keep on the right side
of Eobert ; that he knew, even had he
keenly desired to do so ; but it would be
more seemly and more agreeable to his
feelings if he could manage to keep from
open quarrelling, at any rate before his
marriage. But could any one help quarrelling;

with such a fellow  morose and
mannerless as he was ? Still, opportunities
of provocation must be avoided.

So, Waif, my lad,' said his master, as his
hand rested on the dog's silky head, ' for
the future, whilst in these parts, you must
remain at the inn whenever I come Cedars-wards.
It is a pity, my boy, for we both
prefer company, and there is a lady up there
who is fond of you ; but so it is, Waif, the
ill-tempered govern the world, and tread
down the good-natured and discreet, such
as you and L'

Waif in response merely wagged a bushy
tail. He was somewhat sobered by the incident
that had just occurred. He knew not
why or wherefore he had given offence ; but
that there had been a row he understood
well enough, and also that by some mischance
or other he had been the cause of

it ; and being by nature a peace-loving and
gentlemanly dog, his spirits had dropped
with his tail for the afternoon. He only
recovered his self-possession after many
compliments in the drawing-room on the
part of the two ladies, accompanied by a
saucer of milk and biscuits at afternoon tea.
Barrington was fortunate in finding his
fiancee at home and disengaged. Mrs.
Brereton invited him into her little boudoir
up-stairs ; then, with her usual amiability
leaving the young couple to themselves
for a long chat. She was kindness and
cordiality itself, and pressed De Witt to
send for his portmanteau and to take up
his quarters at the house during his stay ;
nevertheless, he fancied he detected a shade
of involuntary relief in her face and manner
on his declining the invitation. She was a
thoroughly honest woman, with the most

transparent of features, and lie correctly
divined that she was divided between three
separate sentiments  a genuine personal
liking for her son-in-law elect, a persuasion
that it was scarcely selon les convenances that
he should be located at the village inn, and
a terror of collision between himself and
Eobert. The latter feeling predominated.

She seemed, however, sincerely disappointed
that her visitor would not stay to
dinner, which he promised to do on the
following evening.

It seemed to him that, even with the
faces of his hostess and his betrothed beside
the board, he could scarcely manage as yet
to enjoy a meal taken in the company of
Robert Brereton. The young man's looks
would turn the very wine sour, and make
the viands indigestible.

It was a lovely starlight evening, still

and frosty ; and when, after having warmly
shaken hands with Mrs. Brereton, he made
his way to the front door, Nell accompanied
him.

I know why you won't stop,' she said
softly, as they stood together in the silvery
moonlight just outside ; ' you and Robert
have fallen out again.'

It is true, Nell ; we cannot keep the
peace. And yet I never considered myself
a quarrelsome fellow before.'

Who could help quarrelling with him ? '
she asked. ' It is hard ; he drives you out
of this house, Barrington.'

'Never mind, my queen, we shall soon
have a house of our own ; and no disagreeable
person shall ever enter it, shall
they ? '

It seems a long time off, Barrington. I
never felt it so before.'

No, Nell. It was partly your doing,
you know, that it was put off so long. It
certainly was not my fault.'

I know, Barrington. And now I am
sorry. I feel afraid of your going away
again and leaving me here. Suppose some
accident should happen to you in town ?
Suppose one of us were to die "? '

His arm was round her.

'Death is not the worst of separations,
they say, my queen.'

It is the only thing that could divide
vs, Barrington.

'Don't look so serious, my darling. I
won't be killed, if I can help it : life is too
precious now.'

It makes one feel so unsafe,' she murmured
gently, ' when one cares so much 
too much, Barrington.'

Can one care too much ? ' he asked, with

sudden seriousness. ' I do not think I can,
for you, my queen. I have faith in you.'
Her beautiful eyes were raised to his.

It is deserved,' she said quietly. ' Barrington,
not even death could make me
forget you  no persecution, no suffering
could make us give each other up, could
it?'

Yet,' he said, half-dreamily, ' the highest
form of human love is self-sacrifice, they say.
Could I give you up, Nell, if it were for
your good, I wonder ? '

How could it ever be ? ' she asked, with
a shiver. ' Why, that would make my good
a cruel evil ! I could not live without you
now, Barrington.'

Oh, my darling, I am not worthy of
such love ! '

There was a long pause, whilst he held
her silently in his arms. Then he suddenly
broke the spell.

Why, queen, you will be taking cold ;
how thoughtless of meto keep you out here !
One more kiss, Nell  how lovely you are !
And give me a smile  the moonlight has
infected us with romance  don't let it
make you sad. Good night, good night,
my queen ! '

And as she turned to go inwards, he ran
gaily down the steps, whistling to his dog.

Five minutes later he was at the bottom
of the avenue, about to pass over the stile
leading into the cross-path that went beside
the keeper's cottage.

Suddenly he paused to listen, and Waif,
listening too, pricked up his ears. The
next moment De Witt had leapt the stile,
and dashed into the woodland path. He
had heard or fancied that he heard the
distant cry of a frightened woman. And
now words fell plainly enough upon his
ear.

Oh, Mr. Robert, sir, leave me ! Why do
yoa persecute a poor girl so ? '

And he hurried on more quickly, his
cheek burning with indignation. There was
the sound of a half-sob in Lucy Barrett's
voice, which was not lost upon him. The
shadows in the wood were thick and black,
and it was difficult to see his way ; but he
strode forwards, and in another moment,
stood before them. Robert, who had been
retaining a forcible hold upon her arm,
obliorino her to remain and listen to him,
loosed his grasp at the unexpected interruption,
and, without a moment's pause,
Lucy fled like a hunted hare down the
chequered path.

For one moment the two men looked
each other in the face without a word.
Robert's was pale with fury, De Witt's
flushed with disgust. The latter was the
first to speak.

Don't you think,' he said,  that you
must be a pretty cur to go on terrifying
and insulting that poor child ? '

What is that to you ? ' asked Eobert,
his voice hoarse with passion.

It is a great deal to me. And if I can
put a stop to it I will.'

How will you do that ? ' asked the other,
in the same tone.

I will find some way. Her father  or
yours  shall hear of it.'

Eobert 's response was totally unexpected.

An oath hissed for a moment between
his teeth ; then he aimed a blow straight
between his companion's eyes.

Somewhat surprised  for he had not
believed Robert Brereton to be of the fighting
order  De Witt had sufficient self-control
to restrain the inclination he felt then
and there to castigate the fellow as fully
as he deserved ; and stepping quickly backwards,

evaded the blow. But, in retreating,
his foot came in contact with a fallen tree,
and he fell heavily to the ground, striking
his head against the trunk. For a moment
lights blazed before his eyes, and he was
stunned  the next, he recovered consciousness,
to find Waif anxiously licking his face
and Eobert out of sight. He rose somewhat
giddily, and stumbled back towards
the cottage-path. His face and neck were
scratched with the sharp points of the
broken twigs upon which he had fallen,
and a drop or two of blood was trickling
down his cheek, whilst his head felt heavy
and stupid with the blow it had received.
The fresh night air, however, was the best
of restoratives ; and before he had reached
the village inn, he felt himself once more
in possession of all his faculties. Being
unwilling to display his injured condition
to the curious eyes of landlord or waiter,

he there hurried up-stairs to his bed-room,
where he washed off the stains ; and after
descending with but little appetite for his
solitary steak, retired early to bed to sleep
off his headache.

His bruises, however, did not pass unremarked
by the polite but inquisitive little
waiter.

Sorry to see that you've hurt yourself,
sir,' he remarked tentatively, as he placed a
hot plate before the guest and fixed his eyes
on Harrington's face. The latter reddened
and hesitated a moment. It would be
extremely annoying to have any gossip
concerning; the ill-feeling; existing between
Robert Brereton and himself noised about
the neighbourhood.

Yes,' he replied, after a pause, ' I got a
nasty fall walking home. Caught my foot
against a tree.'

Coming from the big 'ouse, sir ? ' (For

VOL. II. E

SO was the Cedars usually entitled by the
rustic population round about ; every one in
the inn being of course aware of the fact of
the Captain's engagement to Miss Lingwood,
the heiress of the big 'ouse.)

Barrington nodded his head. 'Nothing
more, thanks he said, as he rose and retired.
But, for a moment after his departure, the
waiter stood and meditated beside the deserted
fire in the sitting-room. The young
gentleman was as sober as a judge when he
came in  no doubt of that  yet, in this
bright moonlight, shining like day, who
could manage to lose his footing upon a
path so clear and smooth as that leading
from the Cedars hither ? Quite incomprehensible.
But not his affair. So the brisk
little man filled his tray, shouldered his
napkin, and ran down-stairs.

CHAPTER III.

GATHERING CLOUDS.

Mightier far
Than strength of nerve or sinew, or the sway
Of magic potent over sun and star,
Is love, though oft to agony distrest,
And though his favourite seat be feeble woman's
breast. '  Wordsworth.

The next morning De Witt rose at
his usual hour. Save for a slight feeling
of stiffness, he was little the worse for
his fall ; and, after short reflection, decided
to walk over to the Cedars as usual before
lunch. Why should he permit his proceedings
to be disarranged on account of
last night's encounter ? It would be better
to ignore the affair altogether  a course

E 2

which, there was little reason to doubt,
would be followed by Eobert, who would
be the last person to wish for a general
clair clement.

As for the scratches on his forehead and
chin, those, if noticed, must be explained
away in some way ; but he could conceal
most of them by means of well stroked -
down hair.

Accordingly, having first imprisoned Waif
in his bed-room, enjoining him, by way of
consolation, to keep careful watch over a
coat and other possessions, he set out on
his walk, and as he did so, missed his stick.

He must have dropped it last night in
the wood when he fell over that abominable
trunk ; he would turn aside for a moment
on his way up to the house to see if he
could discover it. He did so, but without
result. The stick was not there, so far ashe

could see ; but the long grass and ferns
appeared, he noticed, to be a good deal
trampled down, as if by many steps. He
was just turning away, after wondering fora
moment over this, when he was joined
by old Barrett the gamekeeper, and two
other men. De Witt remarked that the
old man, usually so civil, forgot to touch
his cap, and appeared to look at him
askance.

Bad doings here last night, sir,' he said,
half nervously, fixing his gaze upon the
other s face.

Barrington could not but suppose he
referred to something connected with Robert
and himself, and, being unwilling to gossip
on such a subject, began to move off,
inquiring carelessly,

What doings V

The elder man paused a moment.

Well, sir,' he said at length, ' they do
say as you ought to know about that better
nor we ! '

Upon which one of his companions
nudged him.

Feeling annoyed, De Witt walked on
without answer, when, to his astonishment,
the three men followed him.

Was it true, sir,' asked Barrett, ' as you
had words with Mr. Robert here last night
at this spot ? '

De Witt suddenly turned and faced him.

You must be drunk, Barrett, to talk in
the way you are doing. Be so good as to
mind your own concerns.'

And isn't it my concern, and all of our
concerns, with murder committed at our
very doors ? ' retorted the old man with
indignation. ' I'd a deal sooner be dead
drunk, I would, and lose my place, than it

had happened ; though the poor young
master wasn't one to be over popular.'

Murder!' echoed De Witt, standing
still upon the narrow path.

Yes, sir, murder, we fear. He wouldn't
be likely to fall in, he knew his way about
here too well. Besides, they say as the
blow on his head must have killed him
afore he got in

Good God ! ' exclaimed De Witt ; ' is it
Eobert Brereton you are speaking of ? '

The colour had forsaken his cheek, and
he stood for a moment forgetful of the trio
all regarding him so earnestly.

When did they find it out ? ' he asked
presently.

They was searching for him a good
while last nioht, sir, seeing as he didn't
come in to dinner ; but they thought maybe
he'd ozone off to town for the evenings

without letting them know  a elinor as
he'd done once or twice before, so they
wasn't particular anxious about it. But
this morning there was  traces of a struggle
found, and blood about; so then we gets
the men up to drag the pond here hard by,
and there they found the body. Poor
young man, 'tis a sad end to come to at
his time of life, and a foul trick of whoever
played it on him.'

Good heavens ! ' repeated De Witt
vaguely, still standing motionless.

His brain felt in a whirl. "Who could
have done this thing? Who had been
hanging about with the purpose of committing
this crime ? Was it the deed of
some mere robber, some common ruffian ?

Were his watch and money stolen ? ' he
asked.

No, sir, not a thing touched. Whoever

killed him did it for rage and not for
robbery.'

One more question De Witt asked :
Do they know of it up at the Cedars ? '
Why, of course they do, sir. They
took the body up there, in course, at once ;
and they do say as both Mr. and Mrs.
Brereton is like off their heads with horror.'
Barrett's manner had gradually thawed
as he continued speaking, and he had now
become almost friendly and confidential.

De Witt's mind, however, was too much
absorbed in revolving the awful facts just
laid before him to notice any such details ;
and he now began to pace again towards
the house more quickly than before. He
would surely be able to make himself of use
to its inmates iu some way in this time of
trouble, confusion, and dismay ?

In a few more minutes he was ascending

the flight of stone steps that led up to the
Cedars.

It was some little time before the door
opened in answer to his ring, and the
butler who admitted him wore a startled
look upon his face. The day was dark
and chilly outside, but within there was
the deeper gloom of lowered blinds and
closed windows.

Tell Mr. Breton that I am here,' said
De Witt, as he made his way past the man
into the empty drawing-room.

He was not on terms of sufficient intimacy
to go uninvited into the library, whence he
could hear the murmur of men's conversation,
and where he supposed his host to
be. Before, however, he could reach the
drawing-room door, a querulous and excited
voice broke upon his ear.

See him ?  of course I won't see him I

How dare he ask it ? Can anvthinor transcend
that ? '

There was a moment's pause, whilst the
softer murmur of the other voices for a
moment intervened ; and then the same
tones broke forth again, more passionately
and excitedly than before.

The consummate villain ! To dare to
come up here and brave it out ! But he
has walked into the trap now. He shan't
go out again. Go, Stewart  go to him 
don't let him out of your sight till it's
done ! '

By this time De Witt was in the drawing-room
; but the door being open, and only
the width of the hall between the two
rooms, it was difficult to avoid over-hearing
Mr. Brereton's raised tones.

Was it possible that the latter was
speaking of himself ? Had his brain really

become affected by the terrible events of the
last few hours, and had he  perhaps hearing
by some means of the angry encounter with
Robert last night  confused himself to the
extent of imagining him in some way
responsible for the later tragedy ?

Whilst meditating on this point, a
shadow suddenly fell across the doorway,
and Mrs. Brereton, pale and red-eyed, stood
before him. She had not apparently, however,
been aware of his presence in the
house ; for, as he advanced towards her, she
retreated with a smothered exclamation of
terror.

Oh ! ' she cried in trembling tones, ' why
do you come here ? What could induce
you to come here ? '

'I came, Mrs. Brereton, in the hope
of being of use to you all in your
trouble.'

She approached a little nearer to him,
trying in vain to subdue her sobs.

I don't believe it ! ' she exclaimed wildly ;
I cannot believe it ! If it was so, it was
an accident. Oh, say it was an accident ! '

But before she had finished speaking,
her husband's voice could be heard calling
to her across the hall, angrily, peremptorily ;
and at the same moment, Colonel Stewart,
an old and intimate friend of the family,
left the library and crossed over to the
drawing-room.

Mrs. Brereton,' he said, ' your husband
begs that you will come to him at once.'

And without noticing Barrington, he
took her arm, and courteously but firmly
led her out of the room. In another
moment, however, he returned, and stood
before De Witt in silence.

The latter knew him fairly well. He had

met him out at dinner several times, several
times in the hunting field, and had once
gone over to his place for a day's shooting
with the Breretons, father and son. He
knew him to be an honourable, influential,
and gentlemanly man, and was glad that
the support of his presence and advice had
been so quickly offered to the confused and
terrified inmates of the Cedars.

But his astonishment was great when, on
offering to shake hands, the old Colonel put
his hand resolutely behind his back.

What is the meaning of that, sir ? '
asked De Witt quietly, although the red
colour rose into his sunburnt cheek.

It means. Captain De Witt,' replied the
old man with dignity, 'that I refuse to
shake hands with a gentleman about to be
arrested for murder, and until he can prove
that he is innocent of the crime.'

Murder ?  I arrested ? ' stammered Barrington,
too much amazed to collect his
thoughts. ' What can you mean, Colonel
Stewart ? '

I mean what I say, Captain De Witt.
I mean that my friend's son was most
brutally and foully murdered last night ;
and that, believing you to have been the
last person he met with in the wood where
the crime took place, I have felt it my duty
to concur with Mr. Brereton in signing a
warrant for your immediate apprehension.'

You believe me guilty of his death ? '

*My beliefs matter little. You are
proved to have been upon the spot about
the time it occurred. It will be your place
to clear yourself when the moment arrives.'

I have no wish to clear myself before
you, Colonel Stewart. You are welcome to
your foul suspicions. And Mr. Brereton 

does he too believe that I have murdered
his son ? '

He believes that there is ground for an
arrest, Captain De Witt.'

Barrington drew himself more fully up,
and folded his arms. All the natural bright
insouciance had faded suddenly from his
face, and his features had assumed a hard
and contemptuous look. His mind was
clear enough now ; and he smiled with a
bitter sarcasm as he gazed into his companion's
countenance.

And when are you going to arrest me,
Colonel Stewart ? ' he asked. * Am I to
wait here for the constables ? '

*You could not escape if you wished,
Captain De Witt. There are two detectives
in the library now. But, as a soldier and a
gentleman, I give you credit for preferring
to face so serious a charge rather than

to make your escape with a dishonoured
name.'

I thank you for the good opinion you
hold, sir, of one you own to believing a
murderer.'

God knows, Captain De Witt, none
would rejoice more than I could you
establish your innocence.'

A pause had ensued, when the door was
pushed softly open, and a woman glided in.
Her beautiful features were without a trace
of colour, and the large eyes gleamed with
a weird and unnatural brilliancy. At sight
of her the hard smile died out upon De
Witt's lips, and his face flushed vividly.
But without glancing towards him, she
went up to his companion.

Colonel Stewart,' she said, 'would you
tell those men to wait a minute outside ?
They are at the door now. You know,' she

VOL. II. F

added, raising her eyes to his, and speaking
in measured, self controlled tones, ' that he
would not wish to go away, nor should I
wish it. But I must speak to him.'

Colonel Stewart paused for a moment,
glancing first at one, then at the other.
Then he rose without replying, and went
towards the door. The next moment he
had passed out, and they could hear his
voice addressing the men outside. By that
time Nell had moved to her lover's side.

*Put your arms round me, Barrington,'
she whispered. ' Closer  closer ! '

May I,' he asked, sadly,  ' may I kiss
you, my Nell ? '

May you ! But it's only good-bye for a
few days, is it ? ' And as she lifted her
white face, with a trembling smile upon her
lips, meant to cheer and console him, his
self-control almost deserted him.

Only a few days, I hope, my queen ;
perhaps less. You must keep up your
spirits. I shall easily be able to set matters
all right so soon as I get the chance.'

Of course. They are mad, Barrington 
papa is quite mad. You must forgive him  '

My darling, I don't mind anything so
long as you are so sweet to me. Let other
people, if they like, think me a villain  '

But nobody will think any the worse of
you when you have explained it, will they,
Barrington ? And you will be able to do
that quite easily ? '

Very easily, of course, darling. The real
man may have turned up by then. It is
just one of those unpleasant accidents which
will occur now and then.'

And which seem nothing when looked
back upon, although so dreadful at the
time ? '

F 2

'Just SO. Fm not afraid of facing anybody,
Nell.'

*No more am I, Barrington. Nobody
could believe you guilty  of an awful crime
if they had not lost their senses.'

That's right, my queen. If I can think
you are keeping up your courage, nothing
else will come too hard upon me. You area
brave and noble girl, and you will have
enough to do in helping those around you

just Ow.'

Captain De Witt,' said the Colonel,
re-entering, ' I fear it is my duty to
cut short this interview. Miss Lingwood,
pray leave us  it is a painful scene for
you.'

'The pain should be on your side, not
ours,' replied the girl, fire flashing from her
eyes, and a sudden change in her tones that
startled De Witt.

Do you wish me to go ? ' she asked
gently , turning towards the latter.

I think it would be best so, Nell.'

The cab's waiting, sir,' said one of the
men civilly, entering with his companion
and approaching De Witt.

Good-bye, my queen,' said Barrington
softly, holding out his hand. ' Poor Waif,'
he added suddenly,  ' he is alone at the inn
and my letters  '

I will fetch them,' she said. ' Waif shall
stay with me till  you return.'

His hand was in hers as she spoke.

Come, sir,' said the Colonel, anxious perhaps
to shorten the interview.

Was it the peremptory tone of his voice
that roused the girl's spirit, always proud
and defiant ?

Before Barrington was aware of her purpose,
she had suddenly bent down and

pressed lev lips to his hand. The next
moment, with a smile on her face for him,
and a haughty bow to Colonel Stewart,
Nell Lingwood passed out of the room and
went up-stairs.

Meanwhile Barrington, escorted on either
side by the two constables, walked through
the lofty hall to the front door, and down
the flight of steps, his figure severely upright,
his face calm to the many curious
eyes that watched him through half opened
doors.

And so, as an arrested felon, Nell's lover
left the house of his betrothed.

While she  what did she do ? Shut
herself up in a vain despair and anger ?
By no means. The first shock of his
apprehension over, she went about her
work busily, silently, untiringly, soothing
a hysterical mother, giving orders to the

disorganized servants, not refusing even to
assist the trembling, half-distracted man
who sat alone in his library moaning aloud,
but all with tightly closed lips, with a
fixed look in the dark eyes, and an unnatural
calm that spoke of earnest self-repression
and of a hardly concealed suffering.
To herself, no doubt, her trouble appeared
as great as that of even the bereaved father ;
but this did not prevent her feeling a
deep and involuntary compassion for the
latter. Foolishly, wickedly, and cruelly as,
in her eyes, he had behaved, still he had
lost his only son  a young man perhaps
almost in every respect worthless and
unattractive, yet dear to him  and the loss
had made ol him a bowed and aged man.
Robert had been loved by him, if by no one
else ; and the shock of his death to a nature
given to but few affections was for the

time a very crushing one. Who could help
pitying him, while yet that awful thing lay
up-stairs  that mangled corpse, a few hours
ago living and moving with the elasticity
of youth, and calling him by the name of
father  now blurred and crushed out of the
semblances of humanity ?

Not Nell, even amidst her own trouble
and indignant fears.

No wonder that all in the house moved
about softly, and spoke in awe-struck
whispers  no wonder that Mr. Brereton,
by no means a great favourite amongst his
country neighbours, became for the time
being the centre of a general pitiful
sympathy, in which few refused to join.

CHAPTEE ly.

waif's treasure.

mon chien ! Dieu seul salt la distance entre nous ;
Seul il salt quel degree de I'eclielle de I'etre
Spare ton instinct de Tame de ton maitre.

Lamartine.

Nell Lingwood had not achieved her
self-control without a straggle.

For a few minutes  when the cab wheels
had rolled away and silence once more
reigned in the house, when she realized
that the man she loved best upon earth was
being transported to the county jail an
accused felon  for a few minutes it had
then seemed to the girl as if her indignation

and agitation would physically choke her.
Her cheeks were crimson, her breath was
hurried, and she paced up and down her
room, clasping and unclasping her hands
in a feverish excitement.

Had the world gone mad that a thing like
this should happen ? Had Colonel Stewart
and her stepfather lost their senses, that
such a wild notion had ever entered their
heads as to suspect him  him., Barrington,
of all people  of a deadly and unlikely
crime ?

For her stepfather there was perhaps
some excuse : his brain, never very strong
at the best of times, might well be turned,
and his naturally weak judgment warped
by the shock of his son's death ; but for
Colonel Stewart, what excuse, what explanation
could be offered for his action ? Mr.
Brereton must have prejudiced him, nay,

blinded him in some extraordinary way, for
him to believe such a thing possible. Who
could look for one moment at Barrington's
open brow, at his clear, straightforward
eyes, the gentle honliomie of his lips, and
believe him capable of murdering a fellow-creature
? How could they ever frame the
apology with which they would have to
meet him on his return a few days hence ?
How could words be made to express the
shame they ought to feel, the contrition
they ought to acknowledge, for the perpetration
of so stupid and cruel an insult ?
Yet, would he return ? Surely, never
again to this house ! Surely he would never
be able  kindly and forgiving as he was 
to take again in his a hand that had signed
his arrest for murder, or to set foot once more
upon the threshold over which he had now
passed as an outraged and humiliated man ?

Some insults there are almost too deep for
human forgetting, some injuries too embittering
for human forgiving. Would he
then too include her  would he shrink too
from her on his return, as from some one
connected with his humiliation, as from
something reminding him of the one black
hour of a happy, self-respecting life ? No !
a thousand times no 1 She had no fears on
that score. He would be true to her, as she
to him. Neither trial nor disgrace would
draw his heart from hers. Thank God, she
knew that well. And surely would not the
humiliation be her stepfathers. Colonel
Stewart's, when he returned, a man acknowledged
by all to have been unjustly
accused, innocent and injured ?

But she must not waste her time in mere
excitement, in this useless pacing to and
fro. Had she not something to do for him ?

With trembling hands, and her cheeks still
flushed with crimson, she walked to her
wardrobe and took down her sealskin jacket
and hat. Then she laid her finger upon
the electric bell.

'Kate,' she said to the maid, * please to
get ready to come out with me at once.'

On foot, miss ? ' asked the girl, with a
startled look.

On foot,' replied her mistress, apathetically,
as she went on with her own
preparations.

She was almost dressed when the door
opened, and Mrs. Brereton walked in.

Oh, Nell, my dear child, where are you
going ? where can you be going, to-day of
all days ? '

I am going down to the village, mother,'
she replied, drawing on her gloves.

To the village ? Oh, Nell, you must be

mad ! Why, it isn't decent  your poor
brother lying up-stairs.' And Mrs. Bretton's
voice lost itself in sobs.

You mustn't stop me, mother,' said Nell,
with feverish impatience. ' I must go. If
it was my own brother that was dead, still
I should go.'

'It isn't the time to remember those
things now, Nell.'

'What things'? Oh, mother, do be
coherent. I can't understand you ! '

'That he wasn't your real brother, poor
fellow ! '

'My going out can't alter that.'

It's a want of respect. If you must go,
let me order the carriage. But what do
you want ? Why can't Kate do it for you ? '

Nell stood before her mother with compressed
lips.

I am going to fetch his dog, and his

letters and things. I will go in the carriage
if you like, mother, but go I must.'

Oh, Nell, you can't ! Richards shall go,
if any one must ; he is the proper person.
It isn't a fit thing for a young lady to do.
My dear, it would be so commented upon
you could not do it. Though, what a7iy
of us have to do with the matter, I can't
see.'

Do you think I mind comments ? ' asked
Nell with scornful eyes.

And your papa will never, never hear
of having that dog in the house ! It is
cruel of you to suggest such a thing, Nell, I
think  quite cruel ! '

Why cruel ? '

'To remind him of all this horror and
suffering. The very sound of Captain De
Witt's name is almost too much for him 
he is nearly wild.'

'The sound of Captain De Witt's name
will be a subject of remorse to him in a few
days  I hope said the girl, slowly and
painfully, whilst the crimson deepened in
her cheeks. 'Mamma, I will ring and
order the carriage to please you, but do not
say any more

'He will never bear that dog in the
house, Nell  I know he won't ! '
 ' Then I will leave it too.'

My dear, how can you ? You are not
yet independent. Oh, Nell, don't be so
self-willed ! ' And Mrs. Brereton burst out
sobbing. ' How am I to manage between
you both, I can't think ! And I have
trouble enough to bear on my own account,
I am sure. Sometimes I wish I had never
been born ! '

With a strong effort Nell controlled her
impatience. She knelt down beside her

mother, and held her hand for a moment,
stroking it kindly ; then she got the bottle
of eau de Cologne, and bathed her forehead,
and finally held a spoonful of sal volatile
and water to her lips.

All these attentions had the effect of
soothing the elder woman, whose sobs died
away by degrees, and who presently roseat
her daughter's suggestion, and permitted
herself to be conducted to her boudoir,
where Nell poked up the fire, drew out
the sofa, and tucked her comfortably beneath
the coverlet.

Then bending: down and kissing her

affectionately, with a whispered injunction

not to get up until she returned, Nell

left the room softly, and hearing that the

carriage was already at the door, called her

maid and descended the stairs. For the

girl never dreamt of giving up her own
VOL. II. G

way ; nor indeed had Mrs. Brereton expected
it of her.

That was not the fashion in which these
two managed matters. The mother como



planned, and the daughter soothed ; the
elder woman ordered and wept, and the
younger one disobeyed and kissed. It was
not perhaps the most exemplary conduct on
the part of the latter ; but so it was, and soit
had always been. The elder woman was
of a weakly nature, the younger one of
strong feelings and a determined will ; and
they had fallen naturally into positions the
reverse perhaps of those intended by nature.
It had been somewhat of a misfortune to
Nell Lingwood, that, amongst those who
had surrounded her from childhood, not one
had, by the strength of his or her character,
been able to command her obedience ; and
she had hence become somewhat too much

inclined to rely upon her own opinion and
to act upon her own judgment. She was
not by nature stubborn, or even headstrong,
but she was a keen reader of character, and
a stern and uncompromising critic ; and
had long ago made up her mind that to
none of those around her at the Cedars
could she pay the tribute of that respect
which is the parent of a willing submission.
To her mother, weak, loving, and impressionable,
she gave full allowance of a
love which was called upon rather to
support than to lean ; whilst the narrow-minded
obstinacy cf her step-father had
long ceased to rouse in her any other
sentiment than one of passive resistance
and of a cool indifference.

When at length the carriage stopped
before the door of the little inn a sudden
nervousness assailed her ; and hastily

G 2

pulling down her veil, she bid Kate dismount
before her. The landlord was already
at the door, and Neil paused a moment as
she stood before him. Then she spoke out
clearly, and a little haughtily.

I am come for Captain De Witt's dog,'
she said, her head raised. ' Will you show
us to his room ? '

The landlord bowed silently and beckoned
to the waiter. Ill news travels fast, and he
had, of course, in company with all the
country-side, already learnt the details of
the arrest of Miss Lingwood's fiance ; but
he was a man of tact, and perhaps also of
feeling.

William,' he said, ' show this lady and
her maid up-stairs at once.'

The waiter, however, was not of so reticent
a nature as his master ; and his foot
was scarcely upon the stairs before he

began recounting to them many interesting
facts.

I've fed the dawn, ma'am,' lie said cheerful.
' 1 looked to it 'e 'ad his good dinner,
same as usual, but no power on earth won't
persuade 'im to leave that there room ; and
I thought he might as well stop on a bit,
till we see if nobody came to fetch him.
'E's a good dawn, 'e is, a capital trust
dawn ; won't notice no one's orders but 'is
master's.'

So saying, he flung open a bed-room door.
The sight within suddenly brought a mist
before the girl's eyes and a lump into her
throat.

Waif,' she cried softly, ' Waif ! '

In the centre of the room sat the colles,
his bushy fore-paws spread over an old
shooting-coat of De Witt's. At the sound
of her voice he half rose and looked round

eagerly ; but on perceiving that his master
was not there, lay clown again with a disappointed
air.

She came up to him and laid a loving
hand upon his head ; and slowly wagging
his tail, he thrust a soft nose up her
sleeve.

She bent down to kiss the yellow head,
and a warm tear dropped unseen among his
curls. * Waif,' she repeated, ' come to me ! '
And as she went towards the window, he
followed her half unwillingly, keeping, however,
a steady eye fixed upon the shooting-coat.


The Captain's things is all in his portmanteau,
ma'am,' volunteered the little
waiter ; * I put the rest of 'em in just now 
all except that there coat, which I couldn't
get away from the dawn. The key you'll
see is in the lock, ma'am. I think when the

Captain returns, he'll find all his things is
right

Nell felt that she must force herself to say
something.

I have no doubt of it,' she said, as she
slipped a coin into the man's hand ; and
putting the key of the portmanteau into
her pocket, moved towards the door. ' I
think you had better keep it until  he returns.
It won t be  many days.'

Of course not, miss,' said William, in
polite acquiescence ; and Nell felt cognizant
of the chivalry and good taste of her humble
companion in thus avoiding any more direct
reference to his knowledge of the true state
of affairs.

She never thought of him as being, a few
days hence, at the magistrate's inquiry, one
of the most important of those whose witness
was to damn her lover's cause.

Waif ! ' she called once again, and more
imperatively than before. ' Waif ! you are
to come with me ! '

The dog cast one doubtful glance towards
the old coat ; then he turned quietly, and
followed her down the narrow stairs. He
fully recognized the authority of De Witt's
queen. No doubt she had been deputed to
bring him to his master ; at any rate, she
was not one to tempt him from his duty
to that master without wise and adequate
cause. So he followed the two into the
close carriage with a thoughtful dignity of
mien, implying the expectation of an explanation
presently ; and once there, curled
himself up at the bottom of it without fuss,
striving, like the gentlemanly canine he always
was, to occupy as little room and to
be as little in the way as possible.

CHAPTER V.

STRUCK BY THE BOLT.

Honour and shame from no condition rise ;
Act well your part,  there all the honour lies.'

Pope.

Three days later De Witt was brought
before the magistrates. Four sat on the
Bench on the occasion, and out of these,
three (including Colonel Stewart) were
more or less personally acquainted with
the arrested man. Nevertheless, all concurred
in the opinion that he must be
committed for trial. De Witt, on his part,
after hearing the evidence, would have
been astonished had they acted otherwise.
The girl Lucy Barrett had, it seemed, on

being questioned by her father as to the
cause of her agitation on the nierht of
the murder, given a half-coherent account
of some quarrel between the two young
gentlemen.

On hearing; the next morning: of Robert's
disappearance, this account naturally recurred
to Barrett's mind, and led him
instinctively towards the spot where he
supposed the two to have met. Here heat
once noticed the signs of a struggle ora
fall  grass crushed, ferns torn away. His
suspicions so far excited, set him reflecting
and exploring more closely ; and presently
he discovered, half hidden among the
bracken, and not far from the scene of the
struggle, a walking-stick dropped or thrown
away, the heavy end of which, he perceived
to his horror, was clotted with blood. This
stick he at once took up to the Cedars,

justly thinking that it might afford some
clue to the disappearance of the unhappy
young man. There his story excited, as
was natural, the greatest confusion and
dismay  a confusion and dismay intensified
by the positive declaration of the footman,
that the walking-stick belonged to Captain
De Witt

At this juncture Colonel Stewart's assistance
was obtained, and by his advice the
police were brought over and the pond
dragged, when the body of Robert was
found  death, however, being apparently
the result not of drowning, but of a crushing
blow previously dealt upon the victim's
head. There was little doubt but that the
assailant, whoever he might be, had merely
as an afterthought, and in order to conceal
his crime, flung the corpse of the murdered
man into the pond hard by. Indeed, the

coalition of the ground seemed to indicate
plainly enough to the police, when, led by
the gamekeeper, they went to inspect it,
the spot where the body had fallen, and
where subsequently it had been dragged
inanimate over the herbage towards the
water.

There could be no doubt but that the
evidence, as it stood at present, pointed
towards De Witt as the possible murderer.
The fact that revenge and not cupidity
appeared to have been the motive of the
crime (since the dead man's watch and
money were found intact upon his person,
although the former had been broken in
the fall, or previous struggle), narrowed the
limits of conjecture to the general mind ;
added to which, the hands of the watch
had been stopped at a quarter to seven,
about ten minutes after Lucy's entrance.

SO her father stated, and when he supposed
De Witt to be still upon the spot.

The only other person suggested as supposed
to entertain any grudge against the
murdered man  viz. young Barrett, between
whom and himself a few angry words were
reported to have passed once or twice  was
known to have been out of the way at the
time, having been sent off some few weeks
previously to another of Mr. Brereton's properties.
This was a small moor lying some
half-hour's distance by rail, the other side
of Tentbury  the manufacturing town five
miles north of Cotswold Moors.

After him, on the suggestion of the
prisoner's lawyer, the police had made inquiries,
when it was proved that he had
never left the place, but was at his work the
morning after the murder, as he had been
the whole of the day before. But, indeed,

his animosity to Robert Brereton seemed
unsuspected by any except De Witt himself.

Old Barrett was an honest-minded man,
but it was but natural that he should
endeavour to make the best of his son's
disposition.

'Jim he said, 'was a bit churlish and
sour-spoken to everybody. He was a good
sort of lace, but that was his way ; and if
he'd spoken once or twice a trifle uncivil
to the poor young master  why, that was
the way he spoke to every one. He never
could control his tongue ; but as to any
real ill-feeling, he'd answer for it that was
all gammon, and Jim would be as grieved
as any of them for the trouble of it all,
and the wickedness.'

And Lucy, who might perhaps have
thrown some light upon the subject, now
showed an obstinate determination to seal

her lips in silence. Since the date of the
murder she had entrapped herself in a
strange and sullen apathy, which might
cither be the effect, as the neighbours
suggested, of so violent a shock upon a
young girl's nerves, or of some deeper and
less easily read sentiment. At any rate,
she either could not or would not do anything
to add force to the prisoner's weak
defence.

Another point there was, moreover, which
told forcibly against the accused man.
This was the testimony, given half reluctantly
by the brisk little waiter at the
village inn, as to the unusual condition and
conduct of De Witt on the nioit of the
murder  his evident desire to escape observation,
his silence and abstraction, his
want of appetite, and admission that something
out of the way had happened, joined

to the scratches on his face and neck, and
the blood spots upon the wristbands of his
shirt. The evidence was concluded by the
elder Barrett, who bore witness to the fact
that he had (shortly after the discovery of
the body in the pond) found  wandering
apparently without special purpose in the
neighbourhood  the accused, who, when
addressed, showed a palpable hesitation and
desire to avoid interrogation.

De Witt  for the most part a silent
listener to all this  felt startled to perceive
the network of suspicious circumstances and
the neat chain of evidence within which an
unlucky fate had enclosed him. Yet he
would not admit, even to himself, a
moment's doubt of the ultimate issue of
trial before an intelligent and impartial
jury, and with competent counsel to elucidate
the truth.

It was a sharp and unexpected blow, this
arraignment for the committal of a foul and
loathsome deed of violence  this having: to
stand before the bar of his country  he a
soldier and a gentleman  accused of the
taint of blood ; but he would not flinch
before it. A soldier must face his fate as he
would face the enemy's front ; a gentleman
must stand upright in his innocence, firm in
his own self-respect, however thick the
moral mud flung by ignorant hands to soil
the whiteness of his name.

It was only for a time. The ordeal would
soon be over, and his good repute re-established
among men ; and, although in his
innermost heart he knew and recognized
the fact, that the fire could scarcely passover
and leave him unscathed, yet it was
only cowards who called attention to the

scars of life, or displayed to others the depth
VOL. n. H

of the slow-healing cicatrice that an evil
fortune had inflicted on them.

One thought indeed there was which
sent the blood more quickly from his cheek,
and brought a keener pang to his mind.
Could he, might he  the trial over, and he
an acquitted man  return once more to the
girl he loved, and ask her to be his bride ?
Could he support the knowledge that the
outside world, even if convinced of his
innocence, might possibly blame him and
pity her in their union ? Might there not
possibly all his life long be some few who,
through ignorance of the truth, or in order
to pay ofi" some private grudge, might point
the finger of scorn against him as a man
once put upon his trial for murder, and
against her as the wife of such a man ?

Was it not henceforth and for all the
years of his life in the power of every human

creature, however low, however degraded,
to taunt him with the memory of these dark
days, to remind him how he had once been
held worthy of the crudest suspicions of
his fellow-men, been judged amenable to
the most violent passions, capable of the
blackest of deeds  nay, had stood in the
felon's dock, to hear himself publicly accused
of a capital crime ?

Could he ever go into society again ? 
still less, could he ever bear to take her
with him ? Where might she not perhaps
overhear some unconscious word, intercept
perhaps some cruel look, calculated to stab
her tender, loyal heart to its very core ?
His blood rose, his pride swelled, and he
set his lips together with a sudden gesture
of passion.

Convicted or acquitted, it will be the
same,' he said to himself; *I will never

H 2

many her ! No one shall say of me that
I have dragged a woman down, least of all
shall they say it of her, my queen ! '

And then, in the lonely prison cell, his
head fell upon his hands, and there was a
long still silence.

For the most part, however, Barrington's
time was fully occupied. He had a good
deal of correspondence to receive and reply
to ; and, in addition to the almost daily
visits of his solicitor,  a bright, quick-eyed
little man, who took a cheerful view of
things, and declared himself certain of a
favourable verdict,  had many other visitors,
notably Sir Simon De Witt, who journeyed
up from Rolston at once on hearing of the
committal to see his young cousin.

Nothing could exceed the simple-hearted
kindness of Sir Simon, or his dismay at
such an unexpected catastrophe. His affectionate

sympathy almost upset the younger
rai] ; whilst his indignation spurred him
to the lengths of a personal call upon
both Mr. Brereton and Colonel Stuart,  to
the latter of whom he was a complete
stranger,  to expostulate with them upon
their inhuman and unparalleled conduct in
the arrest of, and still more, their subsequent
refusal of bail to, his cousin.
Here mingled sorrow and india-nation so
utterly confused the words and addled the
brain of the usually quiet, studious man,
that he succeeded in making nothing; clear
to either of the two, except the fact that
their visitor had come thus far with the
express purpose of insulting them ; and the
interviews, merging speedily into a hot
altercation, concluded in both cases with
the request  querulous on the part of Mr.
Brereton, choleric on the part of the old

Indian  that Sir Simon would betake himself
and his grievance, as soon as might be,
elsewhere.

After which encounters the poor baronet
returned homewards, to suffer from a week's
liver attack, the result of worry and over-excitement,
and to walk up and down his
library ceaselessly, too sore and heartsick
to take any comfort in the many old and
valued friends that adorned the shelves on
its walls. At the end of which time, however,
he was again in Tentbury, fussing
round the prison doors, and making the
life of every magistrate and legal man about
the place a burden to him.

Chapter. VI.

WAITING FOR TRIAL.

Oh, fear not in a world like this,
And thou shalt know ere long, 
Know how sublime a thing it is

To suffer and be strong.'  Longfellow.

The next three days, with their load of
dull suspense, of cruel anxiety, and of sad
monotony, seemed to Nell Lingwood almost
endless. Each evening, when at length the
clock struck ten, and she could make an
excuse for retiring, it seemed to her as if
she were months older, and more careworn
than when she had risen in the morning ; and
more than once she placed her watch against
her ear, after glancing at it, to make sure

that it had not stopped, so extraordinarily
slowly did the hours appear to move on.

Her only comfort during these dreary
days was Waif, who kept much beside
her, and whom she imagined, perhaps
correctly, to share in some degree her
feelings of suspense and of anxiety regarding
his master. She liked to feel that
something so intimately connected with
Barrington was in her possession, that an
animal he valued so highly was her companion.
It was nice to feel that she held
this link between them both.

It was not that she doubted De Witt's
constancy, still less his tender love ; but
many miserable circumstances intervened
between them, and who could say what
fruit these circumstances mioht bear in

o

the way of wounded pride or of an exaggerated
sense of honour or chivalry ?

And  and Waif was, after all, only a
door, and not so dear to him as she
was  and yet  yet he must return to
claim Waif, he must at any rate write to
her regarding Waif? Nell knew not of
what she was afraid ; yet she knew she
had fears as to what course her lover might
feel it incumbent upon him to pursue on
his return from the magistrates' inquiry  as
of course he would return.

And then, the three days over, came the
funeral  a sad and dreary funeral, at which
there were but few mourners, and during
which the snow fell heavily and darkly,
whilst Nell sat at home nursing her mother,
who was alternately weeping, and exhausted
with a hysterical fit  not so much now for
the loss of the step-son with whom in life
she had never agreed, as for the condition
of her husband, who had persisted, against

the advice of his medical man in attending
the ceremony, and who was in such a
nervous and trembling condition that he
had had to be assisted into the carriage by
the butler.

It will kill him, Nell it will be his
death I ' she sobbed again and again ; ' one
funeral always brings another. He is quite
unfit to leave his room, quite unfit to go
out, even if it were not so terribly agitating
a thing as this ; but he never will listen to
anything I say. 1 implored him not to go.
And what good can it do poor Eobert now ?
But I do think it was cruel of those Long-more
Breretons not to have come over, the
only near relations poor Eobert had. Just
to make an excuse of the severity of the
weather, when they are neither of them old
or infirm ! But that is the way with everybody
 nobody feels for one when one is in

trouble. I shall never be the same woman
again, Nell  never. I shall never get over
the shock, nor, I am sure, will your papa,
even if croino out in this weather does not
kill him. I shall never be able to goto
sleep again without thinking of it. It
seems too horrible, that one's own step-son
should be murdered 1 It may be you next,
Nell, or my poor husband  who can tell ? '

Such a thing would be very unlikely,'
said the girl, a little wearily, fanning her
mother's brow. ' Mamma, you must try to
fioht against these morbid terrors, or you
will never get over the shock. Try not to
think of it  I mean, try not to ponder over
the details. It is so bad for you ; and where
is the use of it ? '

Oh, Nell, I can't help it ; my mind will
go back to it again and again. The moment
you leave me, and I am alone, I begin it allover

again, till I feel as if I should go off
my head.'

Then I will stay by you, mamma, and
read aloud to you

I am always thinking, ' who can it have
been who did it ? " '

Who indeed ! ' repeated Nell wistfully.
Ah, don't you think, mamma, / would
give all I possess to have that question
answered ? '

Oh, my dear, it must be so terrible for
you ! ludeed I feel for you. What will
you do, my poor child, if they say he is
guilty ? ' And Mrs. Brereton shuddered
violently.

Nell lifted her head proudly, whilst a
sudden blaze of colour came into her pale
cheeks, and a sparkle into the heavy eyes.

I shall love him more dearly than I
have ever done before ! The more he is

insulted and persecuted, the nearer he will
come to me, and the more closely shall I
cling to him.'

But  but  oh, my dear, suppose he has
really done it 1 '

Her daughter rose up with flashing eyes.

Never say that  never imply that again
before me, mamma ! I cannot bear it.
Do you wish me to hate you ? '

Yoa care more for him than for me, I
do believe, Nell I '

Do not ask me that, mamma. But,
except for you, there is no one else upon
earth perhaps that I truly love. And I
could not love even you if you can believe
that  what they say of him. Say you
do not mean it, mother ! '

I don't, Nell ; you know I don't in my
heart. But it is so puzzling, and I don't
know what to think. It must have been

some ODe who bore ill-will against poor
dear Robert, every one says.'

And was Barrington the sort to bear
ill-will against any one  ill-will of a revengeful
sort ? You know better, mother.'

Oh, my dear, I know nothing. I only
know how miserable I am, and how hard
a thing is life just now. Your papa is
angry with me because I will not be convinced
that Captain De Witt was the man ;
and you are ready to hate me because I
will not swear he is innocent ! ' And Mrs.
Brereton burst forth into a fresh paroxysm
of weeping.

The next day was the day of the magistrates'
meeting and of De Witt's committal ;
and lunch was hardly over before the news
arrived at the Cedars, in the form of a
communication from Colonel Stewart to
Mr. Brereton.

The latter had not that day attended
upon the Bench ; he had indeed at first,
in his nervous excitement, contemplated
taking this injudicious step, but had finally
permitted himself to be persuaded of the
almost unseemliness of so doing, to the
great relief of his brother magistrates, who
one and all felt that they could follow the
case far better if unembarrassed by the
agitated presence of the father of the murdered
man. The knowledge of the verdict
had a curious effect upon him.

He was still sitting over the lunch table,
his wife and step-daughter being gone,
when the note was handed to him. The
perusal of it brought the colour to his
cheek and a clearer look into his eye.
He hastily swallowed a glass of wine ; then
rising, drew himself up, and went to his
wife's boudoir up-stairs. Mrs. Brereton

looked up with astonished eyes at his
entrance. His step was firmer, his figure
more upright than they had been since
the shock of his son's death ; and as he
spoke, and told her of the news, his voice
for the first time had regained its steadiness.
There was even a triumphant ring about
it. Perhaps he felt the reviving influence
of this new absorbing interest ; life had
again become interesting ; here was a
counter-excitement, a stimulant to rouse
him from his apathy  the hope of conviction
and punishment for his son's murderer.

Horatia,' he said, almost with dignity,
when he had finished reading aloud the
Colonel's letter, to which Mrs. Brereton listened
in a breathless and appalled silence,
I must speak to Eleanor at once. She
must be told at once that any further
communication with this  this man is

absolutely impossible  that she must at
once and for ever banish the very remembrance
of him from her mind as a
shame and an abhorrence. Doubtless,
perverse as she has been, she will herself
see it now in this light. She cannot well
do otherwise. But it must be an understood
thing ; I must have her promise.'

Oh, my dear, I fear she will never give
him up.'

Never give him up ! What !  a murderer
! a villain not fit to walk the earth !
a man who murdered her own step-brother !
Are you mad, Horatia ? '

Oh dear, oh dear, she will never believe
he is guilty ! '

Will she be convinced, think you, when
he is convicted by judge and jury?  when
he is sentenced to the gallows ? '

Oh, Edward ! ' and Mrs. Brereton lifted

VOL. II. I

a terrified face to his, ' you do not think
that will happen, do you ? '

Why should it not happen, if there is
any justice to be found amongst men ?
Do you wish the villain to escape the
gallows ? / don't. I pray heaven he may
get his deserts 1 '

It would be too awful ! A gentleman
who has dined at one's own table, and been
one of us. Oh, Edward, I could never get
over it ! Do you really think him guilty ? '

Of course I do  the foul wretch ! '

What will our poor Nell do ? How
will she bear the shame of it all ? It will
kill her, Edward.'

It will teach her a useful lesson. If
you had listened to me, both of you, earlier
on, none of this would have happened. My
poor boy might have been living still. I
told you from the first he was an adventurer

; but I little thought then he was
crying to turn out a murderer. It is of
no use crying, Horatia ; we can't undo the
past. I am a broken-down man ; it is
too late to alter matters now. And do
not upset me needlessly by these constant
tears. Being the bell instead, and send for
Nell'

I will go and fetch her myself, my dear.
Perhaps it will be best if I break the shock
to her first as gently as I can.'

As you like. I will wait here. Don't
be longer than you can help.'

Mrs. Brereton was not many minutes
before she returned with her daughter.
Nell had received the news with a proud
stoicism that had almost deceived her
mother into a belief that the shock was
less terrible than she had anticipated. The
moment the elder woman put her white

I 2

face in at the girl's bed-room door, and
before she could frame her trembling lips
to utter the words, Nell turned towards
her, and said steadily, almost coldly,

'You needn't say it, mamma. I know
what you want to tell me. They have
committed him for trial.'

Mrs. Brereton advanced into the room,
a trembling, pitiful woman.

Oh, my dear ! ' she exclaimed, putting
her arm round her daughter, 'it is so dreadful
for you ! 

But Nell drew away a little, and 
herself from the caressing; hand.

'Don't pity me!' she said quietly, but
with a concentrated bitterness. ' Pity the
poor misguided fools who have done this
thing.'

And your papa, my dear  your papa
wishes to speak to you. But I don't think

you can beat" it  I will tell him you are
not fisc for it.'

I am fit for anything ; I can bear anything,'
replied the girl. Then she added,
half to herself, with a slow self-contempt,
and a keen anticipation of future pain,  I
shall have more to bear before it is all over ;
what does it matter what / have to bear ? '

And laying her hand for one moment
upon the head of Waif, who stood beside
her,  as if by the touch to inspire herself
with fresh strength,  she followed her
mother out of the room.

Eleanor,' said her step-father solemnly,
as she entered the boudoir, 'you probably
guess the nature of what I have to say to
you ? '

She shook her head silently.

You have heard your mother s communication
'? '

Have.'

Sit down, my dear ; don't stand. You
look ill and upset, as we all are.'

I would rather stand, thank you, papa.'

It is a horrible business, Nell  almost
too horrible to speak of. I am sure I
need only say a word. You have a heart,
I am sure, Nell  your poor brother  you
care  '

'Papa, why should you agitate yourself
by recurring to it ? You know I care.'

*I know it, Nell. You are at times independent
and self-willed, but you would
not willingly  break the hearts of your
mother and myself, or  insult the dead.'

Nell stood silent, her face expressionless,
her pose statuesque ; and her step-father
resumed, with a visible shade of irritation
upon his features, 

You understand me, Nell ? You must

surely follow me ? You will have nothing
more to do with that man  in thought oro



deed ? '

The face into which he looked so
querulously, so irritably, grew white and
set.

I will never throw over Barrington De
Witt, if that is what you mean.'

Good God ! to say it to my face ! Why,
the very mention of the man's name in
this house is an insult to all within it, an
insult to morality itself ! Would you cling
to a murderer, child ? '

Barrington is no murderer,' said the set
lips slowly.

Would you cling to a condemned
criminal "? '

I would cling to an innocent man all
the more if he were convicted,' said Nell.
'But that,' she continued, raising her head

proudly, ' he will never be. There is a Godin
heaven, and justice upon earth still 
though not in this house.'

o

You rave ! ' exclaimed Mr. Brereton,
passionately. ' How dare you say such
things ? AVho are you to set your opinion
against the legal judges of the land? You
are a mad, wicked girl ! '

A strange smile came over the white face
before him.

I am not mad  yet,' she said slowly.
Perhaps  they may drive me so before 
the end.'

Promise me to give his presents up to
your mother, to burn his letters ! Promise
me to hold no further communication with
him  to banish out his very memory. Don't
you know  are you too mad, too infatuated
to see that the past is a disgrace to you ? 
that years cannot wipe out the humiliation

of having your name associated with such
a man ? '

'Years shall not wipe out my love for
him. There is no shame. His affection is
my glory, whatever happens.'

She paused, and her lip quivered.

Mr. Brereton was blind with fury. True
to his nature, he showed no mercy, he felt
no pity for one who roused his wrath.

And will you still,' he asked, his eyes
fixed upon hers, ' feel proud of his affection,
still glory in his love when he mounts the
gallows, to die the death of the felon '? '

He had gone too far ; and his wife started
forward with a smothered cry.

Oh, Edward, you will kill her ! '

The slight figure swayed for a moment,
then fell heavily forwards, as she caught it
in her arms.

'Oh, Edward!' repeated Mrs. Brereton

reproachfully, as she marked the blanched
face and closed eyes, ' how could you be so
cruel ! '

Go on, go on ! ' said her husband, as he
assisted her to lay her daughter upon a
sofa ; ' that's just like you women 1 You
always agree to a thing, and then blame one
if it goes wrong. How could I help the
o;irl fainting; ? '

Of course you could ! ' replied his wife,
motherly compassion inspiring her with
unaccustomed courage. ' I had no objection
to your saying what had to be said, but
you need not have said it with that butcher-like
cruelty ! '

Oh, very well ! ' said Mr. Brereton ;
have it your own way ! Spoil your
daughter as much as you like. You'll rue
it some day. But of course I'm always in
the wrong.'

And perceiving that Nell was already
re-opening her eyes, and that a faint shade
of colour was returning to the pallid cheeks,
he very wisely retired from the field of
battle, confessing himself for the moment
outnumbered.

Meanwhile the girl rose to a sitting posture,
and seeing her mother's anxious and
commiserating gaze, essayed a feeble smile.
In truth, Mrs. Brereton was a good deal
frightened, for Nell was not of a constitution
prone to faintness, and the present
incident was an unprecedented one.

Lie still, my dear child, my poor dear 
lie still,' she said tenderly, pushing her
daughter gently down upon the cushions.
But Nell soon rose again.

I am all right now, mamma,' she said ;
don't look so terrified. I can't think what
made me so foolish.'

'It wasn't foolish at all. I'm sure I
don't wonder at it the least replied her
mother, still full of her feminine indignation
against Mr. Brereton's want of tact and
kindness. 'It was enough to make anyone
faint. I could not have believed that
your papa could have spoken with so much
brutality. And I told him so.'

Nell drew her hand across her eyes,
striving to repress the hysterical shudder
which assailed her as the barbarous words
recurred to her memory.

'Never mind, mamma,' she said as she
rose to her feet. ' Cruel words are of no
real account, are they ? But don't let us
talk of it. And I will go to my own room

adam now.

Let me come with you, dear.'
Dear mamma, you are very good to me,
but I would rather be alone. Oh she

exclaimed, with a sudden choking gasp, ' I
must be alone ! I cannot talk ! '

Promise me at least that you will lie
down and rest said the mother.

I cannot lie down. I am quite well,
mamma  indeed I am, but I long for
solitude.'

Silently Mrs. Brereton pressed a tearful
kiss upon the girl's white forehead, and then
Nell escaped to her own room.

Once there, she locked the door, and then
flung herself upon her knees on the floor
beside a chair, her elbows on the seat, her
face buried in her hands. There were no
tears, no sobs  she did not move or tremble
as she knelt on there silently, apathetically,
in a sort of trance of misery, of doubt, of
horror.

Oh, what was Barrington feeling now ?
he, so true a gentleman so light and gay of

heart, so free of guile, so keenly sensitive
to the claims of good name and honour 
What was her agony now compared to his ?

And clearly before her rose the vision
of the bright, bronzed, half-boyish face,
dimmed, clouded with a pain too great for
words. What had he done that he of all
men should be singled out for a visitation
so cruel, so unlooked for ? Did not the
very expression of his countenance, so
upright, so simple, so manly and straightforward,
bear its own witness to a life purer
and better than that of most ? How could
it be that men, looking upon that silent
but untying witness, could be found blind
enough to imagine him capable of crime 
of a murderer's heart, of bloody hands ?

Her thoughts were too vague to be put
into words. She knew not how long she
knelt on there alone ; she scarcely knew

she herself suffered, so absorbing was the
sense of sympathetic suffering for him.
Suddenly, however, something touched her
softly on the shoulder, and she lifted her
head.

Beside her stood Waif, his wistful eyes
looking down upon her, his paw lightly
placed upon her shoulder. Flinging her
arms round him, she sat down upon the
floor, and drew the silky head against her
own. The flood-gates were opened at length
by a dog's caress, and she wept softly and
freely.

Poor Waif ! ' she said, as he pressed
willingly up to her, giving her the best of
his canine sympathy in her trouble. ' You
and T, Waif, are all alone in the world now ;
we are the only people who care for Mm.
Every one else is turned against him.'

Then, after a while relieved by her tears,

she got up, and putting on her jacket, crept
softly downstairs with the colles at her
heels. But as she neared the front door,
the colour suddenly flushed back into her
pale cheek, and she laid an instinctive hand
upon Waifs collar.

The study door was ajar, and from the
room within came Mr. Brereton's irritable
accents.

There's that wretched dog again ! Who
let him into the hall ? It's a scandal to have
him in the house at all. I wish somebody
would shoot the brute ! I tell you, Horatia,
I won't put up with this sort of thing ; I
mean to be master in my own house ! '

Apparently he had not caught sight of
his step-daughter, but only of her companion,
when Nell presented herself suddenly
at the door, her hand still upon
Waifs collar.

 Papa,' she said, with a new and unaccustomed
gentleness, ' leave me the doer.
It is not much to ask ; he shall never cross
your sight if I can help it, he shall never
trouble you.' Her lips quivered. ' I cannot
do without him. Let us have some pity on
one another ! ' And before either her father
or her mother could answer her, she had
moved away.

The cool outside air fell freshly upon her
burning eyes as she descended the steps,
and a wintry sun was just setting behind
the leafless and gaunt-armed trees in the
long avenue, showing lines of crimson
between the giant trunks. Here and there
a bird twittered faintly as he flew homewards
to rest and sleep, and every now and
then a little patch of snow fell from the
evergreen branches with a soft thud upon
the half-frozen ground.

VOL. II. K

It was a chilly evening, yet sweet and
calm and restful ; an evening for peaceful
thoughts, for a poet's fancies ; but to Nell,
like each of the four days that had preceded
it, the embodiment of an unlovely world,
coloured in harmony with a mind of restless
misery, a heart full of cruel pain.

Suddenly, as she neared the end of the
avenue, she paused and shuddered. Justin
front of her was the little stile leading
towards the Barrett' cottage, the smoke
from which she could see rising straightly
upwards in the still clear atmosphere.

This was the first time she had walked
here since the terrible event which had
turned the current of all their lives, and
the cruel mystery of which seemed likely
to overshadow all the bright sunlight of
her own and Barrington's future. Over
the stile Eobert had gone that evening,

passing so unsuspiciously to his doom ;
and, but a few yards further on, somewhere
amid that tangled brake of fern and
undergrowth, the murderer had struck him
to his death, and had dragged the mangled
body towards the pond. Involuntarily
she half turned ; then she paused again,
and glancing: around her with a terrified
air, set her lips together with sudden determination
and walked onwards.

The first greyness of coming twilight was
already beginning to show itself among
the trees, and the soft silver mists were
gathering around, clothing the stems in
ghostly robes. The birds were all gone
home, and the only sound about was the
crackle of a falling twig or of sliding
snow. It was very lonely, very silent,
very still ; but her mind once made up,
Nell went on firmly. Waif, as if to

K 2

encourage her, keeping closely tucked to
her side.

Teaching the stile, she passed over it, her
eyes fixed straight before her. She could
not well have borne to glance aside in
the direction of that mysterious and terrible
bit of covert which had been the scene of
the family tragedy so few days ago. As
it was, the realization of the crime seemed
to come before her with a more terrible
vividness than ever before, and the thoughts
that crowded her mind turned her for the
moment physically sick. But she continued
steadily on her way, only pausing
when at length she stood in sight of the
door of the gamekeeper's cottage.

In the doorway, looking out, stood a
girlish figure, which, on perceiving her
approach, turned and fled indoors. But
it was too late.

Lucy ! ' called Miss Lingwoocl,remaiiiing
where she was. ' Lucy ! ' she repeated more
imperatively ; and the girl advanced slowly.
I want to speak to you, Lucy ; weill you
please come here ? '

Won't you step inside, miss ? There's
no one but me at home.'

No, thank you, Lucy. I would rather
speak to you here.' And the young girl,
throwing her shawl over her shoulders,
came forward unwillingly. Her eyes were
fixed upon the ground, and she avoided
Miss Ling wood's gaze  a steady gaze which
seemed striving to read the inmost recesses
of the other's heart.

Lucy,' said her companion slowly, butin
tones which seemed to the trembling
girl before her those of a merciless and
clear-melted judge, * did you speak the
truth this morning ? '

I, Miss Nell ? In  in court, do you
mean ? '

Of course I mean in court. Did you
tell the magistrates all the truth, Lucy ?
Did you tell them all that you knew ? '

Oh, indeed, miss, I didn't say a single
word as wasn't true  I didn't indeed ! '

I did not ask that, Lucy. I asked you
if you told them all you knew ? '

Oh, Miss Nell, I don't know what you
mean. I did my best. It has been an
awful time for me,' and Lucy's voice
broke, and her fingers wound themselves
convulsively in and out of her apron.

We have all had to suffer, Lucy 
perhaps all of us innocently. I don't
accuse you ; but remember, you may be
answerable in the sight of God for the life
of an innocent man. Dare you keep back
the truth, Lucy ? '

No, miss, I won't  indeed I won't ! '
'Tell me now  slowly  every word you

said this morning, and to which you swore

on God's own book.'

Oh, miss, it was all true  Bible truth
every word of it ! I only told them, as
father bid me, all I knew  that the Captain
came up as Mr. Eobert was talking a few
words to me, and spoke angry-like, and
there was words between them as I ran
away ; but I didn't rightly hear what either
of them said, owing to being a good bit
startled and put out myself.'

What had startled you, Lucy ? '

Mr. Eobert, miss, coming upon me
unexpected like. I didn't know as he was
behind me till he put his hand upon my
arm of a sudden.'

I have no wish to pry into your secrets,
Lucy,  God alone and your own conscience

must bear witness as to whether you area
good girl or not,  but I expect you to
answer me this : was not Mr. Eobert making
love to you when Captain De Witt came
upT

Nell's tone sounded stern and judicial,
and the girl's trembling increased.

Oh, miss, I wouldn't deceive you. He
was a bit foolish in what he said maybe,
and startled me.'

It was not the first time Mr. Eobert had
made love to you, Lucy, and you had
encouraged him ? '

I didn't encourage him, miss, so to
speak  quite the contrary. But what is a
girl to do if a gentleman speaks a civil
word to her now and then ? I'm an honest
girl, Miss Nell, indeed I am ! '

'I have nothing to do with that, Lucy.
But why do you equivocate as you are

doing ? I tell you, Lucy, you will be made
to speak out at the trial, and to tell all you
know. You might be allowed to tell half
truths this morning, but they will not be
accepted there. You had better answer me
now. Did you tell the magistrates that
Captain De Witt interfered because you
cried out in terror for help from Mr.
Eobert ? '

Not exactly, miss. I told them Mr.
Eobert frightened me a bit.'

Do you know, Lucy, that your witness
may decide Captain De Witt's fate ? Do
you realize that if you leave a word of the
truth unsaid, and so tend to convict him,
you will be in God's sight a murderer as
wicked as he who murdered Mr. Eobert ? '

Lucy sobbed violently.

Did you not hear anything at all, see
nothing more as you ran away towards the

cottage ? ' continued the stern voice ; and
Nell half unconsciously grasped her companion
by the arm.

Lucy gave one terrified glance up into the
white set face bent above hers, and then
covered her face with her shawl.

I did !I did ! ' she cried. ' Oh, Miss Nell,
I won't lie to you ! I heard a sound like a
fall, and I glanced round, and Mr. Eoberfc
was still standing where he had been, but
not the Captain.'

So that you suppose that Captain De
Witt had fallen, or perhaps been knocked
down by Mr. Robert.'

Oh, miss, how can I tell ? I know no
more than I have told you, if I was to die
for it ! I heard them quarrelling, but I
didn't catch the words. Then I heard a
scrimmage, and I saw Mr. Eobert standing
alone. After that I got to the cottage, and

ran upstairs to my room. I mustn't stop to
see no more. I could tell you nothing else
if you was to turn me inside out ! '

Why did you keep this from the magistrates
this morning, Lucy ? Did you not
know you were acting wickedly in keeping
it back ? '

I don't know, miss. I hadn't told it
father at first, nor no one since, and I was
afraid to alter my story now. It didn't
seem to make much difference. And I was
so shook like and so frightened, I scarcely
knew rightly what I did say and what I
didn't. But I've told you everything now 
God help me, I have ! '

Nell stood for a moment pondering and
silent.

You have done enough wrong for one
day,' she said at length coldly ; ' go and
repent of it, if you have any conscience.'

Oh, Miss Nell, don't speak so cruel tome
! Say you forgive me. I didn't mean
no wrong to any one.'

I will forgive you when you have spoken
the whole truth  out  in court ; when  it
comes on ; not before. You are a poor
creature, Lucy Barrett ; you would risk the
life of a fellow-creature to save your own
feelings. You are not worth being angry
with. Go  I have done with you ! '

And leaving the weeping girl, Nell turned
away and passed out of sight. The narrow
path to the stile looked dim before her, and,
as she turned into the avenue, the evening
shadows were deepening fast, but she forgot
to feel nervous now. The thoughts burning
within her brain were too absorb! no; to
admit of any mere personal terrors. How
would Lucy's new admissions affect Barrington's
case ? AVould they serve to good

or evil report on the trial ? Surely to good,
in so far as they corroborated his own story.
Ah ! terrible as that day, the day of the
trial, would be to her, would God that it
were here now  that it were tomorrow !
It was now only the beginning of February ;
the assizes would not be held until March.
How would he ever get through those six
interminable weeks ; how would he ever
bear the suspense of that long, long period ?
She  terrible as it seemed in prospect to
her  would have her occupations, her duties,
her outside world to interest and assist her ;
but he  what would he have ? Nothing !
nothing but solitude and foreboding thought
nothing but white-washed walls and a
bare cell, from which even God's sky was
excluded.

God help you, my darling !  she murmured
passionately, as she pictured the

scene to herself, and thought of him sitting
now, depressed and miserable, in his lonely
prison, or perhaps pacing the narrow floor
with restless tread. * Oh,' she continued,
pressing her hands against her eyes as if to
keep out that mental vision which seemed
to scorch itself into her brain as if by fire 
oh, if I might but bear it for you, my
darling I If I might but be in your place
now, and you walking here free beneath
the heavens ! If I could but tell you, only
once again, how dear you are to me, how
deeply, how yearningly I love you ! I
never let you see it half enough. If you
could only know it now ! If I could but
give you one more kiss, come but just once
to you in prison ! Oh, Barrington, if I could
die to save you all this pain, how readily I
would do it ! '

She had paused in the middle of the

long, dark avenue, and spoke the last
words aloud with a bitter cry that there
was no one by to hear, and of which she
herself was unconscious. But the next
moment she wiped away her blinding tears,
and walked on resolutely.

I must not give way,' she said to
herself; ' I must be cheerful and keep up.
When he comes out after his acquittal,
he will want strength and encouragement
and consolation. How will it be if he finds
me weak, and worn, and broken-down inspirit
? No, I will be brave for his sake.
What should break my spirit, so long as
I know he and his love are still all mine ? '

CHAPTER VII.

FOUND GUILTY.

Mon coeur nage incertain comme sur des mers sombres,
Ne pouvant ni toucher le fonds, ni voir le bord
Entre le desespoir, ou le crime, ou la mort ! '

Lamartine.

It was late in the afternoon of the 20th
of March. The day had been exquisite,
one of those transient foretastes of spring
which at times slip out so unexpectedly
even in our inclement clime, as if to bid
our hearts rejoice in the recollection that
warmth and flowers and sweet clear sunshine
have existed, and will again exist
in the new year coming on. But do these
happy prophecies speak to all with the
same voice 1 Are there not times when

earth's oiad freshness falls like a dumb

o

sarcasm on the bitterness of our human
hearts, and when the storm within us makes
us shrink with a sore distaste from the
unsympathetic mood of a sweet, calm
world without ?

All day long the sun had been streaming
in through the hio;h windows of the courthouse
at Tentbury, gleaming through dusty
panes upon the judge on his lofty seat, on
the white wigs of the barristers beneath,
on the prisoner at the bar, and the crowded
audience. One cruel ray had even sought
to emphasize the incongruity between the
smiles of nature and the stern occupations
of man, by falling direct upon the
pale face of the prisoner, and across his
head, where it lit up a streak of gold upon
the short brown hair ; whilst, just behind
him, dancing down the causeway of dust

VOL. II. L

into the shadowy depths of the dock, floated
a stream of many-coloured motes, blue and
green and gold.

All day long De Witt had stood there
beneath the pitiless gaze of his fellow-creatures
and the pale rays of the half-wintry
sun. Silently motionless he stood,
as if in a dream ; whilst witness after witness
came forward, and contributed their
quota to the story of guilt that seemed even
to his eyes so neat and clear a chain of
evidence. Some there were in court who
loved as well as knew the man, and to
their eyes there appeared a great change
in him since his arrest. His bronzed face
had lost its colour and roundness ; there
was a stern look in the blue eyes, and
new, hard lines about the closed, defiant
mouth. When first he came into court,
he had held himself upright as a man

could be, and had fixed his eyes with a
determined gaze upon the gaping crowd
around him, whilst a bitter smile had been
for a moment or two upon his lips. Now,
however, as the hours wore away, and the
cruel monotony of the testimony he had
for the most part heard before went on
and on, his shoulders drooped a little, like
that of one wearied to death with the
fight, and his gaze sank to the ground.
And Sir Simon and John Ponsonby, looking
at his countenance, wondered at the
havoc already worked by suffering in the
bright, insouciant face, and asked themselves
which of the two expressions  the
stern defiance or the apathetic depression
were the most unlike to the careless geniality
of the features of old. It was only
when, all unexpectedly to himself, De Witt's
former Colonel stepped into the box to give

L 2

evidence to the character for extreme kindliness
and gentleness of disposition always
borne by the prisoner whilst in the service,
a testimony followed up by one or two more
that a sudden flush came over the sallow
face, and a quick light into the uplifted
eyes. For a moment his lips trembled ;
and the emotion awakened could only be
repressed by a stern effort, as the counsel
for the prosecution in cross-examination
strove to shake this evidence somewhat.

Good-natured and kindly, you tell us 
tender-hearted in fact, to the best of your
belief, the prisoner always was. But was he
never given to a transitory fit of passion or
impatience ? Had he never a quick temper ? '

Every kind-hearted person I am acquainted
with has more or less a quick
temper.'

Yourself, for instance ? '

'Myself, for instance.'

But you have not answered my question.'
In my opinion, I never knew a less

revengeful temper or a better disposition
than that of Captain De AVitt. He was the
last man in the world to commit the crime
imputed to him.'

But he was subject to occasional fits of
passion  like all kind-hearted people ? '

By no means, sir. I think it is even
possible he might have kept his temper
with you, which is more than I am able
to do '  a retort which, although made in
all sincerity and earnestness by the repaired
Colonel, who was truly of a somewhat
choleric nature, created a titter of
amusement in court, and called for a more
stinging reply from the worsted Q.C.

De Witt's counsel did all he could for
him. He was a quiet, painstaking man,

not particularly eloquent, but a thoughtful,
careful person, much esteemed in his line of
business.

Barrinoton's first thought had been of
Ponsonby ; and it might be said that, from
the moment he first heard of the case, 's
most earnest desire had been to take
part in the defence of the man for whom he
had conceived a desultory but very sincere
regard; but it could not be. Ponsonby
was not upon that circuit, and professional
etiquette forbade his accepting the brief.
His interest in the case, however, was such
that he could not keep away, and he attended
all day in court as an eager auditor and
spectator. From the first moment he had
never had a doubt of De Witt's innocence,
but after hearing the evidence for the prosecution,
had little hope of his acquittal. His
keen mind turned the evidence round and

round, and his hawk-like eyes fixed themselves
upon each witness in turn ; but he
could find no serious flaw in the string of
testimony. The only hope of salvation lay
in diverting suspicion upon some one else ;
and this appeared to be impossible. The
only person of whom the prisoner seemed
to entertain the least suspicion was Jim
Barrett, and this suspicion, he was forced to
acknowledge, had led to nothing. He had
himself, en amateur, gone over to Kiltersgate,
the village where the younger gamekeeper
still was employed, and questioned both him
and his acquaintances upon the subject, but
had succeeded in eliciting nothing of any
importance. The young man appeared to
him of a stolid, stupid sort, incapable of
planning out the scheme imputed to him,
even had it not seemed clear that he
had never left the neighbourhood of his

employ merit on the evening in question.
Wolverhampton was a good ten miles from
the Cedars, and on the day of the murder he
had been seen busy till nightfall at his usual
avocations, in which he was again enoaQ:ed
at the accustomed hour the following morning
on the arrival of the police. He slept
alone in a cottage on the borders of the property,
but, on searching there, nothing had
appeared in any way to excite the suspicions
of those sent to inquire. His clothes were
as usual ; there was no trace of blood, no
implement with which to inflict violence,
about the place ; the bed had apparently
been slept in, all things appeared in a natural
condition, and the young man himself exhibited
a quiet indifference scarcely compatible
with the guilt of murder.

John Ponsonby confessed himself completely
puzzled, and agreed with the police

in mentally acquitting the man De Witt
suspected. No ; there was some one else 
some other with a personal grudge against
Eobert Brereton. Was that not conceivable
enough, considering the kind of life the
young man was reputed to have led ? But
who it was, was at present, he decided, an
inscrutable mystery ; and that it was possible
it might remain so for ever he could not deny.
The eager, clear-sighted face grew anxious
as the hours wore on and the case drew to its
close, and the thin sarcastic lips were pressed
together with a concentrated irritation that
was John Ponsonby's outward manifestation
of mental pain. The evidence for the prosecution
seemed to him, though all of a
circumstantial character, so terribly crushing
; that for the defence of so hopelessly
vague and general a nature. It was all
very well for friends to crowed round and

give a suspected man a good character ; but
such evidence proved nothing more than his
general popularity, and a murderer had
been popular before now in general society.
For a case such as this, to confute evidence
so telling as this, nothing except the proving
of an alibi could send a man out of court
with a clean bill of health. And even if,
by some fluke or commiseration of the jury,
he were acquitted, what would life in De
Witt's social position be worth, with the
stigma of such an acquittal for ever attached
to his name 1 And Ponsonby's face grew
more and more serious, and he avoided
glancing towards the bovved head of the
prisoner. It was not the first time he had
seen an innocent man  or one he believed
to be innocent  convicted, but it was the
first time such a person had been found
amongst the number of his friends. He

knew well what the verdict must be, more
especially after the summing-up of the
judge, who seemed to him to lean more
strongly than was necessary towards the
view of the prisoner's guilt ; there could be
but one ending to it all, unless by the
improbable chance of some independent and
obstinate jury-man. But no one knew
better than himself how slender a chance
this was. It appeared as if every one who
was not acquainted personally with De Witt
believed in his guilt ; and on what grounds
did the persuasion of his innocence with the
others rest ? Simply on their instinctive
conviction of the natural goodness, uprightness,
and gentleness of the man  grounds
strong enough perhaps to those holding
them, but naturally of little legal weight
against the amalgamated evidence of the
other side.

Had he, however, turned towards the
prisoner, he would have seen him more
powerfully moved by the judge's address
than by any previous incident of the day,
save the generous testimony of his Colonel
and fellow-officers. The evidence De Witt
had all heard before, the counsel for the
prosecution was paid to vilify him and
attempt to prove his guilt  all that was in
the natural order of things, and no more
than he expected. But the judge was,
it was to be presumed, a gentleman, an
unblessed auditor, a man of marked intelligence
and of the strictest j justice. And
what was his impartial opinion, delivered in
that calm, commanding voice, so free from
heat, so apparently merciful in its choice of
words  a manner, a voice, a judgment that
must bear with overwhelming weight upon
the twelve jury-men who sat listening to him

with SO respectful an air  nay, that almost
for the moment persuaded Barrington
himself of the force of the arguments, the
truth of the conclusions ? An opinion
clothed in but few legal phrases, clearly
expressed, slowly enunciated, that he  De
Witt  was a felon and a murderer ! His
lordship no doubt was used to varied
expressions on the features of the many
wretched men and women constantly placed
before him in the dock, and troubled himself
but little to note such things, else
might he have been struck somewhat by
the occasional glances fixed upon him by
the prisoner during the course of his speech
glances at first wondering and amazed,
then indignant, but at the last merely
curious and indifferent.

When at length the jury left the box to
reflect upon their decision, then Ponsonby

cast one look towards the pleasant companion
with whom he had idled away so many a
sunny hour at Naples, and saw that his eyes
were fixed and his features expressionless.
It seemed as if the summing-up had been
the last insult he could bear, and as if he
took no longer any interest in the matter,
nor even for the moment cared to know now
whether the voice of the jury proclaimed
his conviction or his acquittal. But 
had scarcely noticed this before the
twelve men shuffled back into their places,
and from their speedy return he augured
the worst of results. He was not mistaken,
as in a clear loud voice the foreman replied
to the judge's query by the one terrible,
simple word, ' Guilty, my lord. But,' he
added, ' we wish to recommend him to mercy
on the ground of supposed provocation.'
The prisoner seemed to experience no

surprise or emotion at the verdict, and he
did not look up until asked by the judge, in
the usual formula, as to whether he had any
reason to give why judgment should not be
pronounced upon him.

Then he raised his head slowly and looked
the judge full in the face.

I am innocent of the murder of Eobert
Bretons he said,  or of any knowledge of
it. I never saw him after I fell backwards
myself, and he was then alive and uninjured.
You can hang me, but you cannot
make me guilty ; and in that case you will
be blood-shedders, not I.'

The few words, spoken so calmly, created
a sensation in court ; but the next moment
all eyes were turned from the prisoner towards
one of the benches not far behind.

True  quite true ! ' sobbed a voice, Sir
Simon's. With his handkerchief spread

over his face, he sat swaying himself backwards
and forwards in uncontrollable grief.

But the smile which rose involuntarily to
the lips of one or two of the spectators died
quickly out the next moment, and the
prisoner seemed one of the few to whom the
reappearance of the judge in the fatal blackcap
did not bring a shudder.

And as the concluding phrase, sounding
so bitter a mockery of human justice,  ' And
may the Lord have mercy upon your soul,'
fell upon his ears, Poiisonby, who had so
often before heard it unmoved, suddenly
turned sick, and gathering up his hat and
stick, slipped hastily out before the mass of
his fellow-auditors.

It was all over now  the day's work, the
day's suspense  a human body had been
consigned to violent death, a human soul to
despair; and the barristers were eagerly

chatting and the clerks joking as they tied
up their green bags, whilst the on-lookers
elbowed and jostled each other out of the
air-exhausted building.

Ungentle hands began to pull the prisoner
forward, and he suddenly started, and
awakened from his dream. A pall seemed
at the same moment to fall between himself
and the outside world, and those who
observed him yet saw a grey pallor sweep
across his features. Before his senses had
come a new revelation  the realization, as
never before realized, that now at last he
had done with all that to living man constitutes
existence. And in the horror of
that moment his spirit revolted, and eternal
truth became a mockery. A streak of sunshine
lay across his path, and he turned
away his eyes from it. Why should this
moral blight have fallen upon him ? What

VOL. II. M

had lie ever done that he should be singled
out for degradation deep as this ? Had he
ever scoffed at the Deity that the Deity-should
now desert him  should make a lie to
seem as truth ? He had been no unbeliever,
no evil liver. If he had not always served
the Almighty, he had at any rate believed in
Him ; if his life had not always been a lofty
one, it had at any rate been pure. Now all
was over  hope, honour, life itself; before
him shame, disgrace, and death. His brain
reeled with the confusing visions of a
drunken man, as silently, apathetically he
moved onwards, letting himself be hurried
forward  looking on, as it were, with a sort
of vague impersonal wonder at the scene in
which he took a central part.

It could not be himself, Barrington De
Witt, born to social position and the
respect of his inferiors, who was now

silently suffering these insults from low
hands  insults which a few weeks ago
would have been so swiftly and surely
punished? No, it was not he, it was no
longer the frank and fearless gentleman, it
was not even a man young and strong and
spirited  it was a criminal condemned to
death, an outlaw beyond the reach of pity,
of self-respect, a creature haggard and broken
and lost. An exclamation from one of his
companions caught his ear. It was but a
muttered oath, caused by the stupid movements
of the prisoner he conducted; but
De Witt turned upon him with a laugh such
as might echo through the despairing vaults
of hell.

God ! ' he said, opening his dry lips with
an effort ; ' there is no God, man  call on
something else ! '

M 2

CHAPTER VIII.

THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

And what is our failure here but a triumph's evidence
For the fulness of the days 1 Have we withered or

agonized ?
"Why else was the pause prolonged but that singing

might issue thence 1
Why rushed the discords in, but that harmony should
be prized 1 '

E. Browning.

Reader, who in your opinion is most
worthy of the name of hero ? One who
has scaled the enemy's heights, leading the
van amid fire and flame of war; the man
who can calmly face a gang of mobbed
russians or the armed assassin at midnight ;
he (or maybe she) who walks unconcerned

and smiling on his or her errand of mercy,
amid the horrors of foul disease or appalling
epidemic  who feels no shrinking from the
agonies of cholera or the loathsome contamination
of leprosy ? Ay, grand and
inspiring are such examples, specimens of
a noble manhood, of a Christ-like unselfishness
; yet to my mind is there one example
loftier still.

It is that of a human being doomed to
lowest depths of degradation by his fellowmen,
deemed an outcast, a very earth-encumbrance
by all who yet preserves his
moral equilibrium, retains his self-respect,
and, folding calm arms, can shut his ears
to the dismal clamour of earth's detractors,
and, without conceit as without self-ex
station, can look upwards and say, unmoved,
' God lives, and God knows best 1 '

But are not such men rare upon the

earth ? Ay, surely they must ever be soso
long as humanity is formed of flesh and
blood, so long as human hearts and human
hopes are centred in the affections, the
opinions, the respect of our fellow-creatures.
Was not even a Savonarola bowed to the
earth by the scorn and hatred of his fellowmen
? did not even a Saint Peter recant
when human honour failed his Master ?

Probably is there no mortal anguish
greater than these social downfalls, no test
more cruel than the sudden stripping away
of all this world's support, to bring us
face to face, naked and ashamed, before
ourselves and God.

Of De Witt I make no ideal character;
I describe him as he was  a man strong
and proud and upright, in the first flush
of youth and life and energy ; yet now
for awhile crushed and battered out of

moral shape, lost to self-respect for a passing
moment, by the overwhelming force of this
unexpected blow, this cruel turn of fortune's
wheel.

When at length he found himself shut
once more into his narrow cell, shut in
this time with despair for his only companion,
with the inscription written above
his door in letters of fire, ' Let those who
enter here leave hope behind,' with the
greyness of twilight falling around him,
and the long hours of a night of endless
horror stretching forth before him, it
seemed to him that his brain reeled, and
that he no longer knew himself or could
command his thoughts. He sat for a time
motionless, his head bowed upon his hands,
beyond the power of consecutive thought,
beyond the consciousness of outward things,
of time and place. Then he rose, and with

clenched hands paced with increasing fever
up and down the gloomy den. The food
brought to him he rejected with loathing.
But when at length the lights were all
out, night had begun, and he was forced
into the cruel mockery of lying down, then
the true nightmare of the silent hours
began. A darkness peopled with shapes
of unutterable horror, visions too vague
and awful to put into words  a silence
broken only by the occasional tramp, tramp
of the night warder on his rounds. Then
it was that the exhaustion and the apathy
of the day's long tension melted slowly
away ; and in place of it came a realization
of facts piercing in its keenness, a picturing
of details worse than the very bitterness
of death for vivid exactitude.

How soon would the end come ? He
knew not. A few days of this mortal

agony, of this maddening life in death,
and then the sweeping away into the
black oblivion of disgrace. Why not tomorrow
? why not at once ? Why did
they not take a man at once out of court,
straight from conviction and the sentence,
and hang him there and then, before he had
time to realize every detail of the horrors
before him, before he had time to die
the death a thousand times ? Was this
human mercy ? Was it not rather the
devilish ingenuity of the gloating fiends ?
They said it was to give the convict time
for repentance, time to think upon his God
to pray for pardon, and prepare for death.
Fools ! who could think of repentance
with his mind poisoned by details so sickening
? who could call upon the God who had
permitted him to come to such an end as
this ? A few more days  three or four,

perhaps five or six  and then this warm
living, breathing body, this strong identity,
this individual personality, all these surging
thoughts, these burning passions, these
human interests and human loves, would
exist no longer, would actually be no more
gone whither ? These strong limbs,
whose veins were full of circulating blood,
this pulse that beat so fiercely, would be
but part of an inert, lifeless mass  the
animating power withdrawn from it, the
hot life wrenched violently out of it  a
mere distorted lump of flesh and blood,
a person, an /, no longer !

Before him came the whole long ghastly
vision  the waking on that last morning,
the last look at sun and light, the last
breathing of the crisp morning air  the
air free to all, nature's gift to feed the
healthy human frame, but no longer needed

for him ; the last touch upon the furniture
of his cell, and the knowledge that the
hands that felt those substances would in
another hour be limp and cold ; the putting
on of his clothes for the last time  clothes
to be stripped off with a callous and unseemly
haste ere the morning's sun had set.
Then the entrance of that cruel mockery
of kindness, the chaplain ; and finally of
the executioner, with his business-like air
and face, and the cords within his grasp ;
the pinioning of the limbs which God had
given for enjoyment, for usefulness ; the
slow procession, out through the door for
the last time, down the long corridor,
into the square courtyard ; the parson
reading aloud those awful words of the
Burial Service. What ! * earth to earth,
ashes to ashes ' ? never 1 That was fit
language for those already dead, or who

might be lying at their last gasp on the
bed of suffering and weakness ; but for him,
Barrington De Witt, fierce and full-blooded
and active, what was their signification ?
Nothing but a monstrous farce, the burlesque
of mocking devils !

Then the mounting of the steps, the
facing of the gallows, the arrangement of
the rope, and the one last despairing look
towards the heaven that had deserted him,
before the white cap was drawn over the
face ; the moment's awful pause, as a human
being waited in the dark solitude and silence
of his agony for the sudden drop that was
to jerk the very body and soul apart, and
take him in one moment out of the freshness
of the early spring morning, the cool
sweetness of the outside air, the full consciousness
of life and pain, into the vague
and fathomless region of the Hereafter !

Then, as if himself a spectator at the
awful scene and not the victim, De Witt
beheld the taking down of the lifeless body,
the gaze of curious eyes fixed upon the
distorted features, the doctor's inspection
of the still half quivering limbs, the irreverent
handling of the mangled corpse,
the coarse touch of unloving fingers, the
flinging into the rude coffin, the hurried
and unhallowed burial in the felons' ground.
A name wrapped in oblivion, the story of
a life hidden away, a memory bringing
shame and shuddering to all who recalled it.
Good were it for that man if he had never
been born 1 '

Why then had he been born ? Could he
have averted, by any deed of his, the fate
which had befallen him ?  Curse God and
die I ' Was that to be his end, the 
of his life of twenty-eight years ?

No ! it should not be  he would not die the
felon's death ! Why should a man tamely
give up that which was his own, bestowed
upon him by the Creator, simply at the
bidding of his fellow-man ? If he had
committed the crime, yes ; both reason and
justice then called for retribution ; but, for
the innocent so to submit, was it not to
show cowardice on his own part, and assign
to others the crime ascribed to him, that
of murder? Better to put an end to his
own life, better to fight for it, better anything
than to brand a dead name with the
burning, undying shame of the gallows !
Better for Nell  ah ! it was madness to
think of her !  better for her a thousand
times that he should die another death !
Death ! what was it in itself to him now ?
A relief, a necessity, the only and blessed
release from the burden of a life no longer

bearable ; only one quick plunge into the
dark waters whose shadows had for ever
closed around all the hopes and happiness
of this present world. And what to her ?
The best and easiest solution of her sore
trouble, the quickest ending to her throes of
pain and humiliation ; the only balm for her
aching, wounded heart. Yes, his death was
best for both of them ; and for his part he
could say truly he feared it not. How could
a man fear death to whom life could be
but purgatory ? But not that death  not
the death of the shame-abandoned criminal,
not the public execution, not the death of
the sensational penny-aliter, the callous
reporter, of the black flag, the outside
crowd of greedy idlers !

Hour by hour these thoughts and fancies
spread and multiplied, till it was doubtful
whether the brain that gave birth to them

were not becoming more and more insane,
and until the first grey light of early dawn
crept slowly and coldly through the iron
bars of the little lofty window.

Then at last, for a few short minutes,
nature collapsed, exhausted ; and De Witt
fell into a troubled half-slumber, in which,
however, the nightmare visions, instead of
fading, only took more monstrous shapes,
and the present became more terribly merged
in the future. For a few moments only ;
then the heavy door turned upon its
hinges, and swung quickly open ; and as
the outside light fell upon his face, Barrington
sprang up suddenly.

The short few moments of disturbed sleep
had only tended further to cloud his brain,
instead of clearing it from the foul cobwebs
of the past long hours, and he leapt from
his bed like one in a delirium.

Before the man had time to retire, he had
thrown himself upon him with the ferocity
of a wild beast, shouting wild, incoherent
words.

 Kill me ! ' he exclaimed hoarsely, his
voice rino;ino down the still cold corridor.
Kill me, or I will kill you ! '

There was a sharp short struggle, during
which the warder scarcely found breath to
call for help. De Witt already had the
better of the man, who was but half his size
and weight, when two more warders appeared
upon the spot, running hastily to
the assistance of their fellow. But it was
several minutes before they had succeeded
in worsting their victim, whose frenzy,
which for a moment had abated on finding
his first opponent no match for him, now
redoubled on being; confronted with two

others.

VOL. II. N

In truth he knew not why he fought,
nor had he any object in fighting ; it was
simply the brute madness which had taken
possession of him, and which for the moment
gave him that thirst for blood which is the
natural appetite of the brute beast. Like a
brute he fought  madly, blindly, ferociously,
without science, without reason, but with
the fierce energy and power of one possessed
by demons.

And so the three warders thought, as at
length, the fierce struggle over, they had
their prisoner down upon the ground, vanquished
and secured.

By the powers ! Jim,' said one to the
other, wiping his brow and panting, ' but
the devil's in the fellow, and no mistake.
He's a neat gallows' bird. I suppose he
thinks he may as well swing for two as
one 1 '

And yet his friends had said, his fellow-officers
had borne witness, and all who
knew him would have sworn to their belief,
that never existed a disposition gentler, a
nature less prone to violence, than that of
Barrington De Witt. Nay, he would have
said it of himself, and spoken in all
honesty.

God save us, one and all, from the
madness of despair ! God keep us from
ever finding out the lowest depths of our
own nature, from breaking through the
crust of our customary self-command into
that boiling volcano of animal passion that
lies somewhere concealed within the bosom
of most men !

N a

CHAPTEE IX.

A RAY IN THE DARKNESS.

Sorrow is hard to bear, and doubt is slow to clear,
Each sufferer says his say, his scheme of the weal

and woe;
But God has a few of us whom he whispers in the

ear.  E. Browning.

The mood that succeeded De Witt's fit of
frenzy was one of the most perfect apathy.
This is generally the case. These sudden
violent emotions exhaust the powers of
nature, and a condition almost comatose is
apt to supervene. During the long dark
hours spent in the loathsome punishment
cell whither he had been conveyed, and into
which he had been roughly flung, he remained
in a condition in which thought.

feeling, and even reason seemed in abeyance
conscious of little, full of a vague exhaustion
of mind and body. So motionless
was he physically and so apathetic mentally,
that the verdict of the doctor released him
before his time, and he found himself once
more in his little barren cell before nightfall.
Here he soon fell into a deep sleep, from
which he awoke before dawn refreshed, and
restored to his mental faculties. But the
awakening brought with it a new shame,
a fresh wound to poison and embitter
thought. Clearly before him rose all the
incidents of the last twenty-four hours ; and,
as he passed them in review, mapped out
one beside the other with cruel distinctness,
a hot flush mounted to his forehead, and he
said to himself with unflinching self-scorn,
I have been a coward ! I have lost my
nerve in the face of shame and humiliation ;

I have lowered myself to the level of these
poor brutes put to guard me.'

Even now he could not rise above himself
; even now, acknowledging this fact, he
could not regain the lost spark of the divine
in his manhood ; he could not look above,
beyond the shame, the disgrace, the human
injustice, the human rebellion ; even now
his mind was absorbed in the sullen callousness
of a despair more deeply embittered
by its superadded self-loathing.

And then, during the course of the day
was it that day or the next '? for in a
condition of mind such as his the measurements
of time pass vaguely  the chaplain
came to visit him ; and this seemed but
another unnecessary stab added to the
bitterness of death. Why could they not
let him alone  leave him for the few days
of life still permitted him, if to a maddening

solitude of thought, yet at any rate free
from an insult that at the moment seemed
even more cruel than the rest ? Why
should he be forced to meet one of his
own rank  a gentleman and a man of
education  and to listen to words of well-meant
advice that were as gall and wormwood
to an innocent man ? The chaplain
was bound to think him guilty, no doubt ;
he did not quarrel with him for that ; but
why should he be forced to listen to him ?
The evil opinion, the rough coarseness of
the warders he could bear with indifference
they affected him but little ; but the
presence of this social equal who spoke to
him as to a criminal, if in a friendly tone,
and who adjured him to repent of his sin
whilst yet time remained, was a different
matter. He had received his sentence, his
life was to be forfeited  could they do

more ? Why then must they add this too
to their tale of bricks ? was it not enough
to die, without being tortured first ?

At length he turned upon his visitor, a
stout good-humoured-looking Irishman  just
the sort of man, De AYitt felt with a touch
of sad humour, who would probably be the
life of a bachelor dinner-party, or of any
symposia where the jokes were free and the
wine-supply liberal, but whose face was just
now lengthened to an abnormal solemnity
befitting the occasion.

You come here, I suppose,' he remarked
shortly, ' because it is your duty ? It cannot
be an occupation congenial to you, judging
from your expression, that of paying visits
of sympathy to men about to be hanged ? '

The chaplain's eyes shifted uneasily beneath
De Witt's cold gaze.

It is my duty, my friend,' he replied.

But I also come in the sincere desire to
benefit your soul, to lead you to a sense
of God's mercy, and your own need of
repentance.'

God's mercy at the present moment does
not appear to me overwhelming,' observed
De Witt ; ' and as regards my need of
repentance, you are by your position as a
clergyman entitled to stand above me, but
how do you know that personally I have
more to repent of than you have '? '

The chaplain paused discomforted.

If you say less to me about the forgiveness
of my own sins and more about
forgiving those of other people,' continued
the prisoner, ' J. might be more inclined to
listen to you.'

Oh, my friend, that is of minor importance
to you. What you have now to
think of is to try to square your own account

with the Deity. You have not many days
to do it in.'

I know it. And do you think that is a
soothing thought ? '

o O

*Do not be so hard. Break down this
wall of pride before it is too late.'

Pride ! ' and Barrington laughed bitterly.
Is it possible for a man going to the
gallows to preserve so aristocratic a pretension
as pride 1 '

1 do not wonder that you feel the shame
more bitterly than most. To some it is
the mere terror of death, but to you it is
far more. JF/i?/ do such as you, well-born
and well-educated, put yourselves within
the pale of the criminal law ? Why do
you not learn to check your unbridled
passions in time ? '

There was a look of real interest on
the chaplain's fat face, and a ring of real

compassion in his voice, that for a moment
struck home to the sore heart he had endeavoured
to probe.

Sir said De Witt, a little less calmly than
before, ' have there been in your experience
no innocent persons condemned to death ? '

I have never known of one

But there may be ? '

'It is possible, certainly

Try then to put yourself in such a
man's place. Suppose yourself tried, convicted,
and about to be executed on a
charge of which you were as innocent as
the babe unborn ; would not even your
kindly nature be soured, would not even
you, with all your faith, your experience
of the best forms of consolation under such
circumstances, feel sorely tempted to use
the words of the fool in your bitterness,
and say, " There is no God " ? '

God forbid ! But of what use are such
suppositions ? Is it not merely a wile of
the devil which tempts you away from
what should now be the main object of
your reflections ? '

Of no use certainly. But if you wish
to serve me, how can you expect me to
listen to one who offers me the greatest
insult I can ever know ? '

Insult ? '

That of believing me guilty of this
crime.'

I am not bound to say whether I believe
you guilty or innocent. God only can
know that for certain. Man can but judge
according to his ability.'

But according to your ability you
believe me guilty ? '

How can I answer you, my friend ? I
did not even hear the case. As a rule,

however, the law is justice in this our
land, thank God. But put all that aside.
Even if innocent, is it not the part of a
wise man to prepare for the future, to
reflect upon how to meet his God ? '

I am not a wise man.'

Let us pray, my friend ; prayer can
but do us good.'

No,' said De Witt, turning away ; * I
wish for no prayers. Prayer would be a
mockery to me now, offered up by you.
You mean kindly, and I thank you. You
have fulfilled a disagreeable duty,' and a
mirthless smile rose for a moment to his
lips, * and tried to be courteous over it,
for which I doubly thank you. But if any
privileges are accorded to criminals such as
I, I would ask you to leave me undisturbed
until  until the end, in my obstinacy and
impenitence.'

The chaplain paused a moment without
replying. Then he suddenly fell upon his
knees  perhaps in his heart a little fearing
the effect of this movement on the prisoner,
but determined to do his duty.

He was not, possibly, a man of high
spiritual tone, or of elevated life ; but he
was a plucky fellow, and conscientious
according to his, somewhat narrow, lights.
He was relieved to find that his companion
made no remonstrance or disturbance of
any kind, appearing, in fact, deaf and
blind to the proceeding. The prayer  one
straightforward, simple, and earnest enough
over, the chaplain rose, and with one
more glance, half - appealing, half disappointed,
towards the prisoner, took his
departure, and silence and solitude once
more reigned supreme within the cell.

But the softening process which refused

to be brought about by the coarse though
well-meaning touch of the prison chaplain,
fell only a few hours later on De Witt's
arid heart, induced by other means.

It was the morning of the next day,
and he was sitting as usual, lethargic and
apathetic, staring at the white-washed
walls with a growing exhaustion, when
his midday meal was served to him. He
had turned from the coarse fare with a
feeling of disgust, when he suddenly became
aware of the warder's eye fixed upon
him through the spying-hole placed in
the wall of each cell. The man seemed
to take a particular interest in his appetite
that morning, and presently called to him
in a gruff voice to get up and eat his
dinner. Something about his tone roused
a sudden suspicion in De Witt's mind, and
approaching the dinner tin, he observed

it attentively, and then perceived a small
piece of paper sticking out from beneath
the bread lying on the dish. At the
same moment he became aware that the
warder's eye vanished from the inspection
hole. An instant later he had seized the
missive, and discovered it to be a folded
envelope, well secured, and with a few
lines only of writing inside. He had barely
taken possession of it, and had not yet
had time to unseal it, when his door opened
suddenly aud the warder entered. The
paper was secreted in De Witt's hand, buta
moment had sufficed to see the handwriting,
and he looked, as he felt, ready to
fight to the death for its possession. The
warder, however, seemed oblivious of his
clenched hand.

' No. 4004,' he said roughly, * your cell is
in a vile condition of dust and dirt. Keep

it tidier, do you hear! And low did I
come to find some bits of paper in it
yesterday, torn up ? ' (an invention). ' Mind
I don't find no more of that sort of thing
to-day, if you please. What's a prisoner
got to do with letter paper, I should like
to know ? Writing and receiving letters is
contrary to regulations, as all knows, and
I should lose my place if I knocked of such
a things o:oin' on.'

Saying which, he retired as abruptly ashe
had entered, leaving; De Witt in little
doubt as to the true meaning of his
peroration.

Then, feeling pretty secure of his treasure,
he tore it open, devouring the words many
times, whilst a gathering mist obscured
them more and more before his eyes.

A line from Nell  a link with the outside
world  a caress from one of the hearts that

VOL. II.

still believed in him, still felt for him in his
sore trouble and humiliation ! A bit of
paper that had been in her fingers, perhaps
who knows ?  been pressed by her sweet
lips before it made its secret way into this
abode of misery and shame  a bit of paper
on which she had poured out the yearning
pain and grief and love of her loyal
woman's heart. And, as he stood there
alone in. his cell, his back to the spy-hole, a
faint ray of sunlight falling from the lofty
window upon his head, still holding the
letter in his hands, trying to re-read it for
the third time, a flush rose to his colourless
cheeks, his lips trembled, and his eyes filled
with blinding tears.

Darling, darling, my heart is breaking
for you ! But still there is a God above
men  still -I believe that we shall meet
apain in the hereafter, where an Innocent

Victim shall be our King. He knows you
are pure-handed ; and to me you will
always be the noblest, the dearest of all
men. Darling, my own, go to the end
proudly, bravely ; think only of God and
of me. The parting will not be for long.
In this life and the next, your own

'Nell.'

All the bitterness suddenly faded out of
life, all the cruel injustice of fate was
forgotten, as a great tide of love and
tenderness swept in upon De Witt's lonely
soul, and filled it full to bursting with
grateful thoughts and gentle memories.

God bless her ! ' he murmured to himself;
'God bless my queen! Yes,' he con
tinned, suddenly raising features changed
and softened, shining with a new light, the
light of human affection and of Divine trust,
'there is a God  her God and mine. He



has not forgotten us ; no, not even in death
and separation, not even in the depths of
this mortal shame. We shall meet again,
and understand it all in the new life, where
love and justice go together. I will not
doubt it any more. I will be a coward no
more, God helping me ! '

He drew himself together with a new
energy of will, with a new strange feeling
of calmness ; and the knees which had not
bent before, dropped now upon the stone
floor with an impulse he had no desire to
resist. Self was conquered, the higher
nature rose victorious, the struggle was
over, and the bitterness of death became
less bitter in that strange new self-renunciation,
that confidence in a Divine Hand, a
guiding power beyond the sphere of human
understanding.

CHAPTER X.

VISIONS OF Horror.

I sat astonished, till the unmeaning light
Of dawn broke on my heart, and showed how bare
It was. The evening and the morning Averse
The first day of an empty life to me.'  B. M.

All that long clay of the trial Nell had
wandered about aimlessly, scarcely cognizant
of things around her, scarcely conscious
even that to-day was to be the
turning-point of her own existence, so intense
was her realization that it was one of
life and death, both morally and physically,
to the being she loved best on earth. On
the chance of physical death, indeed, she
dwelt lout little ; it seemed impossible for

her to realize that there was any fear of
that  that her lover  that Barrington, in
his youth and strength and ardent vitality
should be wiped out by the hand of the
public executioner ; but the moral death 
that she keenly appreciated and fully understood.
She knew what the verdict of guilty
must mean to one in his position, even
putting aside the terrible realities of the
punishment of penal servitude ; she could
guess how even the verdict of an acquittal
not based upon satisfactory evidence would
poison the life-long happiness of a nature
such as his, would send him back into
the world marked, as he believed, with
the brand of Cain upon his brow. She
faintly foresaw, what she would not openly
recognize even to her own heart, the social
bar which such an acquittal would place
between herself and him, the obstacle it

would prove to their union  an obstacle
which she mio-ht strive to ignore, but which
he would be the first to insist upon.

So the endless, weary day wore on, and
came at last to a close, as it must do even
to the wretched victim of disease, stretched
upon his bed of torture, and longing for
the nioht  the night of death's release.

Nell had felt unable to appear in the
general sitting-rooms all day long, and her
mother had not pressed her. Indeed, to
both herself and her husband, but more
especially to the latter, the girl's absence
had been a great relief. Silent as she was,
and had been upon the subject ever since
the first, Mr. Brereton felt a strange repugnance
to face the pale, still features of his
step-daughter, and carefully avoided meeting
the glance of her heavy eyes. This sort of
behaviour was so new to Nell, with her

usual vif, impulsive character, this wordless
suffering spoke of a pain and a reproach so
much deeper than any she had ever known
before, that Mr. Brereton felt himself to a
certain degree subdued and over-awed by its
presence. He was not, moreover, by any
means utterly heartless ; and notwithstanding;
his settled desire for revenge rather than
justice upon the man whom he believed to
have been his son's murderer, he could still
find room for an occasional thought of pity
towards the girl whose position was so
terrible, and whose life was so broken up.
But the existence of these mixed feelings,
instead of making him gentler in manner,
had the effect of greatly increasing his
natural irritability ; and at this period Mrs.
Brereton's existence was not an enviable
one. Vainly trying to soothe a husband
whose excitement made him restless and

ill-tempered, full of a pitiful sympathy and
anxiety for her only child, torn by the
impossibility of an open agreement with
both, undecided herself in opinion, and
anxious only to accord with each in turns
this was a position many a woman of
strong: calibre misht have found it hard to
filL Much more so poor Mrs. Brereton,
who all her life long; had never held much
to an opinion of her own, and had dropped,
as a vice, all pretensions to having one at
all since her marriage !

o

Her heart, however, to-day was more
with her daughter than her husband : it
ached to see the black lines under Nell's
eyes, telling of sleepless nights ; the compressed
lips speaking of a pain too great
for words ; the restless, shifting glance that
told of a mind far away. All day long she
hovered with a sort of hopeless tenderness

about the girl, lier eyes full of weakly
appealing tears, until at last Nell could
bear the strain no longer, and fled from
the house into an unfrequented part of the
garden. She felt a strange terror of this
self-command of hers giving way ; it seemed
to her that the flood-gates once opened to
the display of emotion, the waters might
come in even unto her soul and drown
it. So she fled to outside solitudes, and
there paced up and down the garden walks,
as she had all morning paced up and down
her bedroom floor.

At the end of an hour she returned
towards the house, and as she did so, saw
the figure of a man on horseback riding
down the avenue. He had been to the
front ; he had brought a note or a message
the day's work was over, Barrington's
fate was settled ! For a moment she turned

sick and giddy ; then, conquering the weakness,
moved on to go indoors.

Meanwhile, knowledge of the result of
the day's proceedings had indeed already
reached Mr. Brereton. There had not been
wanting messengers willing enough to bring
him news of the verdict, and one or two
of these had already arrived at the back
door and asked to see ' the master ' ; whilst
a few moments later there came to the
front entrance Colonel Stewart, and the
man on horseback bearings a note. This
note Mr. Brereton held in his hand as he
went to meet his friend the Colonel in his
study. Its contents were not of a nature
calculated to soothe the nerves of an irritable
man, and his face was purple as he
advanced into the room.

I know it ! ' he exclaimed, anticipating
the words of Colonel Stewart ; ' he is

convicted, thank heaven 1 And there s a
neat sort of note to send to me  me, a
county man and a magistrate ! I've a good
mind to prosecute him ! Isn't it libellous,
Stewart ? I'm sure it is.'

Colonel Stewart took up the note and
read it carefully through.

It was short, but seemed to bear sig-ns of
haste and agitation, the writing being almost
illegible through shakiness. Thus it ran :

SlR,

'You will no doubt be overjoyed to
hear that your machinations have succeeded,
and that an innocent man has just been convicted
and sentenced to death. He whom
you have hounded to death is ten times as
upright and honourable as yourself, and,
in the opinion of those who know him,
owns a life far more valuable. May you
some day have the comfort of realizing that
you yourself are every whit as much a

murderer as the being, whoever it were,
that killed your son, is the prayer of

Simon De Witt.'

Libellous, isn't it "? ' he repeated, as at
length the Colonel, after a second perusal,
laid it down. * Why shouldn't I prosecute
the fellow ? '

Colonel Stewart shook his grey head
slowly.

I should let it alone if I were you,
Brer e ton,' he said quietly.  It isn't worth
thinking; of. No wonder Sir Simon is a
little wild. You know,' he added, after a
pause, ' that Captain De Witt is sentenced
to the extreme penalty of the law ? '

' So they say ; but I have no doubt they
will manage to get him off somehow.'

Very little chance of it. True, there

was a recommendation to mercy '

And on what grounds ? yhat possible

extenuation could they find of his atrocious
crime ? '

Probable provocation. "Who knows
which side began the quarrel, which struck
the first blow ? '

There is no reason to suppose my poor
boy struck any blow at all. He was foully
murdered.'

And now his murderer is to suffer the
full penalty of crime.'

That is only justice. But they will get
him off, you'll see.'

No, they won't  they haven't time.'

Why, when  when is it to be ? '

The execution ? This day week.'
A change passed over Mr. Brereton's face,
a slight quiver over his lips.

I wish,' he muttered between his teeth
' I wish I hadn't asked the day ! '

An expression not far from contempt

flitted for a moment across the Colonel's
rugged features, and he gazed critically at
his companion. In his heart  and a sturdy,
upright heart it was, if a trifle stern  he
found the latter a strange mixture of
vindictiveness and of pusillanimity. Mr.
Brereton was decidedly not of the stuff of
which men, let alone heroes, are made, in
the Colonel's opinion.

Meanwhile, Nell, crossing the hall with
her hurried step, suddenly encountered her
mother, who made a vain effort to escape
out of her way. She turned, however, at
the girl's imploring gesture, and followed
her silently upstairs into her own room.
Once there, Nell, unable to frame words,
caught her mother's arm and gazed into
her face in a speechless agony of inquiry.

Oh, my poor child ! ' iDcgan Mrs. Brei-e-
ton, the ready tears rising to her eyes.

But the expression of her features, without
utterance of words, was answer sufficient.

He is convicted ! ' said the girl, finding
h3r voice at last in a strange low tone.

My poor Nell, I do feel for you ! '

There was a moment's pause ; then Nell
spoke again in the same tone.

What  what is the sentence ? '

Oh, my child, don't ask me  don't ask
me that ! '

They  they have sentenced him to
death  to be hanged ? ' said Nell.

Don't talk in that way, Nell, don't ! Oh,
my child, you are going to faint ! '

No,' said the girl quietly, ' I am not
going to faint again. It  is  so, is it
not?'

'They will get him off perhaps, darling.
Oh, I hope so ! '

Why should they get him off ? People

are hanged, aren't they  gentlemen sometimes
? '

'Oh, Nell, Nell, my dear, try not to
think of it ! ' said the foolish, weeping woman,
putting her arm lovingly round her child.

But Nell shook off the caressing; embrace
with a shudder.

Don't touch me ! ' she exclaimed, almost
fiercely. ' To be hanged,' she repeated in
the same low tone  ' to be hanged on a
gallows  Barrington  he  '

Then suddenly she flung up her head,
and the white lips broke into a wild laugh,
as for the third time she repeated the same
ghastly words.

I know it,' she said, gazing at her
mother with glassy eyes, ' I know it all,
and how they said it  " to be hanged by
the neck until you be dead." Oh, God in
heaven ! '

VOL. II. P

Another ringing laugh  a laugh full of
shuddering breaks, a laugh to bring a pang
to a heart of stone, and Nell's gaze relaxed,
her head fell forward, and Mrs. Brereton
caught her in her arms. Oh, why could
not that moment's blessed unconsciousness
continue ? thought the mother, as she bent
with the tears streaming down her cheeks
above her child, dreading to see the light of
agony return to the closed eyes, and the
quiver of mortal pain to the still pale lips.
Why could she not give poor Nell an opiate
to make her sleep on undisturbed until
that terrible day was over, which surely, if
it came to pass, would kill two people, not
one  and the second an innocent, loving
girl ? Of all shipwrecks in this stormy
world, was there any so pitiable as the
shipwreck of a young and guiltless creature,
broken up by a shame not her own, dragged

to death through the rocks upon which the
one she loved had stranded ?

That her child would never fully recover
morally, if she did physically, from a shock
such as this, Mrs. Brereton felt assured.
For the first time in her life perhaps, at this
moment she gauged the strength and depth
of Nell's affections. But she had yet to
learn to appreciate the force of the girl's
character and the power of self-control and
self-abnegation possessed by her.

The self-control did not come all at once.

The demon of our passions, whether of grief

or love, jealousy or anger, must first be

striven with before he can be overcome.

The victory is for those who fight ; and the

contest must often be a desperate one,

sometimes wounding all but to death, before,

faint and exhausted, we can sit down and

say, ' It is over, I have won.'

p 2

So it was with Nell Lingwood all through
the hours of that long black evening, and
the still longer hours of the blacker night.
Unable to remain still, unable to understand,
nay, to see anything before her but
the one awful vision of Barrinoton's fate,
of Barrington's despair, she paced hour
after hour up and down her room, turning
with loathing from the food her mother
pressed upon her, scarcely hearing the words
of pity and condolence addressed to her.

Poor Mrs. Brereton was in despair. ' I
don't know what to do for her, Edward,'
she exclaimed in pitiful tones, as at last
she returned to her husband's side after a
vain effort to persuade her daughter to take
either rest or refreshment of any sort ; ' she
doesn't speak to me or seem to hear me,
and I can't get her to lie down. What can
we do for her 1 I do believe she will go

mad ; ' and Mrs. Brereton burst into tears
for the twentieth time that day.

Make her take a glass of port wine,' he
said.  You can surely persuade her to
swallow that. Give her a good glassful.
It may make her go to sleep,' and he
actually went so far as to fetch the decanter
himself from the dining-room, and place it
in his wife's hands.

But this errand was as futile as the
others ; for poor Mrs. Brereton, after toiling
upstairs again with the bottle in her grasp,
was unable to effect the desired persuasion.

I shall leave the wine here,' she said
tearfully. ' You will take it later on, won't
you, Nell, to oblige me ? Do you want to
break my heart ? Don't you care at all for
any one but him ? I am your own mother,
and it almost kills me to see you like this,
and refusing all comfort. You will be ill

and die perhaps  and then what shall I
dor

The girl suddenly turned and fixed her
hollow eyes upon her mother. Then she
sat down and folded her hands in her lap,
and for the first time answered coherently,
even gently.

Mother,' she said, in slow, disjointed
sentences, ' you are very good to me, and I
know you care. But I am not ill indeed.
I shall be  more like myself  tomorrow ;
but,' and her lips quivered, * you cannot
expect it to-night. I cannot talk to you or
to any one. I am sorry if I am unkind.
I think if you would all leave me alone,
quite alone, just for to-night  I shall be
better tomorrow, indeed I will ; but leave
me alone to-night.'

Let me have a bed in here and sleep
with you, dear Nell.'

Oh, mother, it would drive me mad !
Only let me be alone  a few hours. Indeed
I am not ill  I will not be ill.'

You have had nothing to eat all day,
Nell.'

'I  I will try to drink a glass of wine soon,
mother  if you will go,' pleaded the poor girl.

And at length Mrs. Brereton, sorely
against lier will, left her ; but not without
a tearful embrace and a muttered blessing,
that for some reason added fresh pangs to
the aching heart. Why was she to be
pitied, caressed, and blessed  perhaps by
those who believed in the justice of the
verdict and in the guilt of the innocent ?
God in heaven be thanked that he had no
mother here on earth to see his end  to feel
the sword pierce through her broken heart !

And now the house was still and silent ;
every one was gone to bed. Not a sound

anywhere, except an occasional rustle in the
sycamore beside her window, and the tiny
marble clock ticking softly upon her mantelpiece.
Half-past eleven ! Nearly seven
hours more of darkness  more than seven
hours of utter silence and solitude. There
was no moon to-night, nothing but a cold
dreary waste of blackness, as she pressed her
face against the window-pane, and looked
out. How was he spending the night ?
Would it not perhaps have been a comfort
to him if one little ray of moonlight could
have penetrated into his prison-cell and
kept him company in his weary watch ?

No ! the moon was no companion for
grief and pain, her rays were too cold and
still and unsympathetic ; she seemed an
embodiment of man's ideal of the pure and
passionless ; she was no fit fellow watcher
in the human struggle, the human agony.

All ! he would never see the moon shine
again  never ! It would not even gleam
down in peaceful beauty upon the grave
in which he slept. His grave would be
between high prison walls, beneath a prison
courtyard, polluted by the feet of the felons
who came to die and those who came to see
them die ! She flung herself down and
pressed her forehead against the window-sill.
God ! that she might bear it for him !
God ! that some of his load of agony might
be laid upon her shoulders ! nay, that she
might mount the very gallows in his stead I

She was but a weak, cowardly woman ;
but love will make a woman at times
stronger than the strongest man ; and at
that moment, Nell Lingrwood would have
laughed aloud with joy could she have
taken Barrington's place, and laid down
her life for his.

He could not, should not die ! The light
in those dear blue eyes to be quenched,
those dear lips, never without a smile for
her, to quiver in the last throes of a
shameful death  it could not be ! Anything,
anything rather than that ! God,
if it were to be, that he might die rather
in prison  alone, alone with only God
and the angels looking on  not beneath
the cool unpitying gaze of his cruel fellowmen
!

Was she going insane? Her brain
whirled madly, and spectres of horror filled
her eyes. She could no longer remain in
her room ; she was choking. She opened
the door and stepped out into the corridor.
It was better to pace up and down in the
darkness there.  But the clock in the hall
was audible now, ticking, ticking so loudly
the moments that led each to his doom.

It was a maddening thought  the hands of
time must for ever go on ; and each tick
made more near, more sure, his death.

Once more she was in her room. Only
one o'clock yet ! Would night never pass ?
Her fire was out Ion or ago : she had not
heeded its dying out ; she had not attempted
to undress herself.

It seemed to her at last as if she could
bear it no long-er.

I shall go mad if I cannot forget myself
and him for an hour ! ' she said to herself.
Relief must be obtained at any price.

Just then her eyes fell upon the wine her
mother had brought upstairs. Might nota
few moments' forgetfulness be obtained
there ?

With a trembling hand she poured out
the liquid, and hastily swallowed it ; then
flung herself upon her bed, praying for sleep.

And the sleep came. But we cannot
wholly cheat or circumvent nature. And
the sleep of exhaustion born in the midst
of pain, whether mental or bodily, is often
but a distorted likeness of the sleep of
nature and of health.

A vague weight, a vague misery was
pressing still upon the girl's consciousness
even during her fitful and broken repose ;
and shapes of horror  less distinct, but
none the less horrible, than before  filled
the mind's eye through closed eyelids. The
continual nightmare was so horrible, the
struggle between fact and phantasmagoria so
ghastly, that semi-unconsciousness seemed to
her worse than the very reality, and at
length she sprang from her bed, determined
to have done with it.

Going towards her washstand, she poured
out a basinful of water, and plunged her

face into it several times. Her head and
hands were hot and dry  the cold water was
life-giving. It was better to be up than
fighting in the dark with those shapes of
darkness, and she flung herself upon her
knees to pray for strength. Alas ! had the
greatness of her trouble dried up the springs
of prayer ? For no words came  she was
conscious of nothing more than the dull
throbbing of a paralyzing misery ; and rose
up unrefreshed. She looked at her little
clock, ticking on so regularly. It was half-past
five. Flinging her window wide open
she leant out.

The morning air was cold and clear and
fresh ; already a faint pallor was appearing
in the eastern sky, and the birds all around
were busy whispering their first morning
hymn. How pure and cool it all was ! The
great trees stood like ghostly sentinels

Stretching out dim arms amid a silvery mist ;
there was not a cloud upon the fading grey
of the dome overhead, nor a rustle of wind
to break the solemn stillness of early dawn.
She knelt down before the window, and
leaning her arms upon the sill, gazed out.
By degrees the stillness filled her own soul,
and the solemnity of creation cried peace to
her aching heart.

The little birds had long ceased from
their prefatory hymn, and once more folded
small round soft heads beneath a downy
wing for another hour's sleep ere rousing
up to the real business of the day, before
Nell raised her face, all wet and softened, ,
from her arms, and rose to her feet. The
battle was over, for a time at least. It
might be that the struggle would have to
be renewed with a more cruel insistence
even than now; but for the present she

could say to the demon of doubt and
despair, ' Get thee behind me.'

When her mother, an hour later, came in,
troubled and anxious, she found the girl
quietly taking some things out of her
drawers.

Don't be startled, mother,' she said,
with a calmness of tone that astonished the
former ; ' I have made up my mind to go to
Miss Collyer's to-day. You know she has
asked me several times. It will,' she added
slowly, ' be better for me to go there.'

Yes, it was best for her to go therewith
his relations, amongst those who
loved him. Here she could do nothing;,
know nothing ; she could not remain here
how could she ? But there would be
sympathy with her trouble ; everything
would be known there that could be known.
Could they perhaps even be able to do

something' for him ? Such a thought made
her limbs tremble, and sent the blood
rushing feverishly through her veins. Was
it perhaps possible ? At any rate she would
try to communicate with him ; she would,
she must write to him, if only two or
three words of her yearning love. Here
she saw no way of effecting her purpose.
She knew not how far it was permitted,
or how far it was a thing unauthorized todo
this ; but surely bribery, if other means
failed, might manage it ; and there they
would Kelp, not hinder her.

You will not mind my going, mother ? '
she said, with wistful eyes fixed upon her
mother.

'Oh, my child, you shall go anywhere
and do anything that will do you good ! '

'That will do me good. I will go this
morning.'

So soon, Nell ? Then you will take
Kate with you ? '

As you like, mother. There is a train
at noon.'

Oh, my dear, I can't bear parting with
you just now, when you are in trouble.
But you shall have your own way. I do
not think your papa will object if I tell
him it is good for you.'

No,' said the girl, with a sad smile,
conscious of the relief her absence would
be to her step-father ; ' I don't think he
will object.'

If you only knew, my dear, how much
he has felt for you in all this trouble
lately.'

Oh, mamma, leave his name out ; I
cannot bear it ! '

And why not ? ' asked Mrs. Brereton,

with a sudden access of conjugal jealousy ;
VOL. II. Q

what has your papa done that you should
speak of him in that way ? '

For a moment the pale cheeks flushed,
and the weary eyes flashed with a sudden
fire.

What has he done ? Has he not
murdered  him *? '

'You wall feel less bitterly some day,
Nell ; perhaps learn to know your true
friends from your false. But I can forgive
you anything now.'

A friend ! Oh, my God ! How can I
ever look at him or speak to him again
without loathing ? Has he not brought
us both to worse than death ? How could
he do it ? oh, how could he do it ? '

She pressed her hands before her eyes
shudderingly ; but the next moment she
raised her face, and turned towards her
mother with a touching gentleness.

Forgive me,' she said ; * I  I will try
to forgive everybody, even his murderers.
Let me be silent, mother ; how can I tell
wiat I may say "? '

A moment later the maid entered, handing
her a telegram.

It was from Judith CoUyer, and ran
as follows :

Come here at once, if you possibly can.
I want you.'

The hearts of the two women to whom
Barrington was most dear had simultaneously
yearned to be together.

Q 2

CHAPTER XL

JOHN PONSONBY, Q.C.

The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel.'

Shakespeare.

It seemed to Nell an endless drive that
brought her that evening from the London
terminus to the somewhat out-of-the-way
region, due West, where was the modest
house inhabited by Miss Collyer and her
invalid friend, Mrs. Keith. She looked out
upon the crowded streets, where on this
grey day the gas-jets were already burning,
upon the brilliant shops and passing
vehicles, then upon the duller and more
deserted-looking suburb roads, with a blank

gaze that in reality noticed little, and was
filled with one sad vision, as was her mind
with one sad thought.

When at length the cabman, after sundry
false stoppages and one or two asking of
the way, drew up before the little flight of
steps, and Nell with her maid dismounted
and entered the narrow doorway, she was too
agitated to speak, and could only put her
hand silently into that of Judith Collyer, who
as silently led the way upstairs to the dainty
little room prepared for the guest. Even
here neither of the two women dared trust
their voices for some moments, and it was
not until Nell's trunk had been deposited,
her maid received instructions, and the
room cleared of servants, that at length the
outward calm broke down between them.
Then Judith, gently pushing her companion
into an easy chair, unfastened her bonnet

and cloak, and, taking a cup of tea from the
tray just brought ia by her own maid, put
it on the little table beside Nell, and sat
down on a footstool at the girl's feet.

Nell looked at it, then turned her eyes
towards the other, and tried to speak, but
her words seemed to choke her.

Drink it, dear,' said Judith, with a soft
tenderness ; * it will do you good.'

Nell essayed to take the cup from the
loving hands ; then she pushed it from her
with a great tearless sob.

I can't ! ' she said. ' Oh, Judith, I
have everything  ease and love, arm-chairs
and pleasant drinks  and he  ' She could
not finish, as she rose from her chair and
began to pace the room feverishly.

Judith CoUyer rose too, and gazed at her
with her beautiful eyes full of tenderest
compassion, mixed with a pure and lofty

calm that spread a ray almost angelic upon
her countenance.

Darling Nell,' she said, * it does not
come by chance ; even this is the work of
Oue who loves us  and him

Oh, Judith, I have not your faith, your
religion. I cannot resign myself, I cannot
think as you do.'

Not yet, my poor child. Who can blame
you ? '

I wonder sometimes,' went on the girl
wildly, ' when I shall go mad. I sometimes
think that will be the end of it to me if  
if  Judith, one could not bear it ! Oh,
Judith, you love him too ! ' and she raised
her despairing eyes towards the other in a
pathetic appeal that filled her companion's
with tears.

I love him, dear Nell, best of any one
now living on earth, I think ; better perhaps

than any one save you can do. But I pray,
as I have never prayed before, not to lose
my trust in God. I have loved Him, Nell,
poorly, weakly, but still loved Him  for
more than twenty years ; and whatever maybe
His will, I believe that He will not desert
His children, above all, the one whom He
is now putting through the fire of affliction
it may be, in order to raise him in the
next life to a place of dignity and joy unutterable
that he could never otherwise have
attained. How can we tell His designs ?
But, Nell, my darling, still, still, if we could
but save him  if He would but permit us !
And perhaps, perhaps  I am almost afraid
to say it  but there may be just a breath
of hope. This petition  they are working
hard  so many seem likely to sign  Simon
and Mr. Ponsonby are at it night and day.
Surely we may hope a little, little bit.'

If we only might!' cried Nell. 'Oh,
Judith, if you tell me there is hope now, don't,
don't ever unsay it ! I could not bear it.'
And, standing there, she flung her arms
round Judith's neck, and laying her head on
her shoulder, found at length the relief of
tears.

Judith stroked her hair softly, soothing
her with touch and action almost maternal,
until Nel], exhausted by her passionate grief,
grew calmer. Then she persuaded her to
try to rest, whilst she told her upon what
foundations she based her slender thread of
hope. The petition was indeed a forlorn
chance, but it was the only one left to
Barrington's friends to work out; and,
backed by the recommendation to mercy of
the jury, and the fact that the evidence was
so purely circumstantial, was at any rate
worth trying.

Sir Simon De Witt and the Honourable
John Ponsonby were, Miss Collyer informed
Nell, the two who were to work the scheme ;
and they had already set the thing going
that day, and (in a hurried note received
a few hours before by Judith from her
cousin) reported satisfactory progress regarding
promised signatures. Nobody, Sir
Simon stated, who had ever been acquainted
in any degree intimately with Barrington but
declared it absolutely impossible, to their
minds, that he could have been guilty of a
crime of the sort. Two of the jury-men had
requested to be allowed to sign the petition
(in their case, of course, on the plea of possible
manslaughter), and a well-known Q.C.,
a friend of Ponsonby's, had done the same,
stating that in his opinion the evidence
was insufficient to hang a man upon. Mr.
Ponsonby had also some hopes of getting

hold of a connection of his, a peer and man
of weight in the present Ministry, and whose
name would be certain to have some influence
with the Home Secretary.

Nell had often heard before, from Barrington,
of John Ponsonby ; but neither she
nor her companion had ever chanced to
meet him. Already, however, he had made
for himself a warm corner in the hearts of
each of the two women, dio, whether he
failed or succeeded in his energetic endeavours,
would never forget throughout their
lives the work he was doing for one dear to
them. They already spoke and thought of
him as a friend ; for was he not Barrington's
friend, and did not that bond unite them all ?

The intimacy between Mr. Ponsonby and
Sir Simon was of recent date, but had come
about rapidly, as the baronet himself had
described to his cousin, on this wise. On

the day of the trial, when, immediately
after hearing sentence delivered. Sir Simon,
half blind with indignation and emotion,
had staggered out of court into the street,
he had knocked up, in the crowd, against
John Ponsonby, less excited but almost
equally agitated with himself.

John Ponsonby was never excited ; besides,
he had foreseen the almost inevitable result
of such a trial. His face was only a trifle
paler, and the thin lines of his lawyer-like
lips a little more compressed than usual, ashe
emerged from the suffocating air of the
court, where he had just witnessed the condemnation
to death of an acquaintance for
whom he had a peculiar liking, and a man
whom he believed innocent.

The first person who met his eyes was
the unhappy baronet, holding on to some
iron railings beside him like a man drunk.

and gasping ejaculations beneath his breath
only half audible. He was known by sight
to Ponsonby, having been pointed out to
him during the trial, with a word as to his
position and character ; and Ponsonby had
cast more than one of his keen glances
towards the seat occupied by the so visibly
agitated man, and had observed his staggering
gait as he passed out into the street.
He now, after the pause of a moment,
crossed the road and touched Sir Simon on
the arm. The latter looked up with a
vague and troubled glare, as the other gave
him his name and profession.

Good God ! ' was his trembling and
incoherent reply, 'to think of condemning
him to death ! Is it possible ! '

I am a friend of Captain De Witt's,'
said Ponsonby, in his clear calm tones ; ' I
am staying at the inn close by. Will you

come in with me and have a glass of
wine ? '

Then seeing that Sir Simon was really,
for the moment, unable to grasp any but
the one terrible idea just engraved on his
brain, the other took his arm and led
him unresisting towards the inn door.
Here he persuaded him to swallow a glass
of brandy ; and then, when he had in
some degree vented his emotion and exhausted
his indignation, to discuss more
rationally the possibility of doing something
in the cause of the condemned man.

For a long time this was impossible. Sir
Simon for some time found it impossible to
be rational, to steady his nerves, or to regain
the balance of his mind, and could only
weary himself and his hearer by reiterated
and incoherent exclamations of horror, and
futile threats of vengeance ; but at length

the cool tone and the practical intellect
of his companion had its effect, and he
began to listen more patiently, and to
think more collectedly.

When at length, three hours later, the two
separated, the elder man was to some extent
reinvigorated, if not consoled. The younger
had proved to him that there was still something
to be done in the cause of his cousin
a something which might or might not
be successful, but which at any rate was
worth the trying. Sir Simon left too with
a suddenly awakened sentiment of regard
in his mind towards his new acquaintance,
and a still stronger sentiment of reliance
upon his judgment and advice. This was
a sentiment inspired in most persons who
had occasion to have recourse to the advice
or assistance of the Honourable John. His
measured, even tones correctly expressed

the keen and judicial cast of his mind,
and impressed such persons much and
justly. To the elderly baronet, with his
impulsive and unworldly wise disposition,
he was an invaluable godsend.

Sir Simon was no fool ; in literary matters
he was above the average ; in a knowledge
of Hebrew and Greek he had few superiors
in the country, and when a young man
at college, his classic attainments and Latin
verses had created for him a more than
creditable name ; but from the world and
its affairs he had long shut himself out,
as from things distasteful, and belonging
to another sphere ; and now knew himself
to be, as much from natural bias of mind
as from want of experience, totally incompetent
to deal with this amazing and overwhelming
calamity that had befallen his
family. But he left Ponsonby's presence

immensely cheered, and so eager to set
about working this last frail hope of the
petition, that he could scarcely be persuaded
to take a night's rest before
bcfrinniDg; his rounds.

After his departure, the wine-glass stood
long replenished before the young Orchis
face was grave and thoughtful, and he
leant his elbow upon the table, and his head
upon one hand, slowly rubbing one of his
eyebrows back and forwards, after a trick
he had when reflecting deeply. He knew
that he had inspired Sir Simon with a confidence
to which he was himself a stranger.

What could one do ? Poor beggar ! '
he murmured to himself, ' he was nearly
off his head. A man of his sort collapses
without hope, he couldn't work without it ;
whereas I  ' He paused, and his features
grew more serious still.

VOL. II. E

I have always told myself till now that
law is justice; ay, though I have helped
many a criminal to get oS his dues  but
there is no unfairness in that. A man must
have his chance out of human fallibility.
But when it is the other way  Good
God ! this man is innocent, if ever man
were. It is horrible, too horrible, for the
law to miscarry in t/ds direction ! He must,
he shall be got off!' and, pushing the
bottle from him, Ponsonby rose from the
table, his lips compressed and his eyes
glittering. It was the AAay emotion had
with him ; where the features of other men
softened, or were moved by agitation, his
became more stern, more hard and resolute.

He rose, but not to go to rest. Calling
for ink and paper, he was soon busily at
work, making notes, jotting down names,
and writing letters. The work was long

and apparently engrossing; but he did
not seem to tire as lie sat on, hour
after hour, with busy hand and reflective
brow, only flinging down his pen and
gathering up his papers as the clock upon
the mantel-piece struck two. He was
habituated no doubt to late hours and
busy evenings, and probably thought but
little of sitting up half the night in the
service of a friend. He had also been the
salvation of Sir Simon that afternoon ;
but that was still less likely to strike
him as a good action. And yet, to his
guardian angel  if he had one  John 's
day may possibly have been one
stamped in gold letters upon the recording
tablets. But there are some jDcople so
prosaic about their good deeds, so devoid
of the sentimental habit of fathering them
upon the good Samaritan, that not only

E 2

themselves, but their neighbours, learn to
consider them as part of the natural order
of events, quite unconnected with any-particular
personal benevolence.

Meanwhile, in the little house in Kensington,
an hour or more had passed before
the subject of the petition had been fully
discussed; and then Nell, on her part,
had an earnest desire to confide to her
friend.

*0h, Judith, if I could but write to
him ! If I could but send hai a line 
just one word to say how dearly I love
him  to tell him how he is still to us
all that is noble and dear, will always
be  ' Her voice lost itself in a sob.

If you could ! ' repeated Judith earnestly.

Is there no way, Judith ? Oh, we must
find a way ! I will bribe his jailers  any
sum  it is no sin I want them to do.'

*No,' said Judith, thoughtfully, 'it is no
sin ; although it is tempting them to betray
their duty.'

Oh, what does that matter ? Judith,
you cannot think it wrong ! '

If I did,' said Judith slowly, * I would still
do it, if I could, 1 fear  God forgive me ! '

Think of some way  think, Judith
You are clever, you can advise me. If
I could only go myself ! '

That you know is impossible, Nell.
There is only one way that occurs to my
mind, and that may fail.'

Tell it me, Judith ! '

We can do nothing in the matter, you
and I. We are ignorant women, and
understand nothing about prisons, and 
these things.'

No,' assented Nell, her eager eyes fixed
upon her companion.

Therefore we must get some one else todo
it for us. And it must be somebody
cautious and clever. Simon would never
do ; lie would make a bungle and get found
out. There is only one person I can think
of to ask  who I think could do it if he
would. But he may very likely refuse.
It is Mr. Ponsonby, Nell. I have never
seen him, but I am sure, from what I have
heard, that if any one can do it, he can.
But he may not like to do it. It is asking
him, who is a lawyer, to contravene the law,
and bribe its officers.'

Oh, Judith, he cannot refuse ; we will
go down on our knees before him ! '

We will do what we can,' said Judith
gravely ; ' and God grant that we may
succeed.'

Their plans were soon settled. Mr.
Ponsonby must not be asked to come all

tills distance for an interview ; they would
telegraph at once to Sir Simon, to know
where he was to be found, and proceed as
early as possible the next morning to the
address given, first sending another telegram
to announce their coming to the
barrister.

In times of trial the neatest aggravation
of trouble is inaction. Where there is something
to be done, the heart can never fall
into the lethargy of despair. Necessity
for action when the blow has actually fallen
is the greatest help to trouble. To sit still
with folded hands whilst the storm passes
over us and the lightnings sears our hearts,
counting each pang, watching each throe 
this is the extremity of suffering, the very
torture of pain. Any toil, however hard,
however futile, is better  above all, manual
toil, which, without putting the mind to a

strain it cannot bear, tires the body out and
relieves the maddening pressure of the
mental weight.

That is why the poor, and men of all
ranks, are to be envied in times of sorrow.
The burden most likely to break the back
of the victim is that which is laid upon a
woman well off in this world's goods, sensitive,
and reticent. For her there is
no stimulating necessity for employment,
no chancre of thought or scene  nothing;
but the terrible, restless repetition of her
griefs refrain through the long changeless
hours.

Before nieht came the return telegram
from Ponsonby himself.

 Come to my chambers, Pump Court,
Inner Temple. I will be there at nine a.m.'

CHAPTER XII.

THE Q.C UNDERTAKES AN ILLEGAL COMMISSION.

wha can prudence think upon.

And sic a lassie by him ?
wha can prudence think upon,

And sae in love as I am 1 '  Burns.

PoNSONBY, as becomes a man of business,
was always punctual to a fault. Five
minutes to nine accordingly the next morning
found him seated before the bureau
in his chambers, turning over the letters
brought by the early post, and awaiting
his visitors. He sincerely hoped that they
wouhl not be late in coming, as his engagements
were numerous, and he was anxious

to be off on his day's work in Barrington's
cause. For this purpose lie had had to relinquish
many of his own affairs, and had
turned over a couple of cases, which might
have required his attendance in court, to
a promising junior, who did devil for him
when required.

He was not, as a rule, a curious person,
but on the present occasion he experienced
a certain curiosity regarding the two ladies
he was expecting. What sort of a girl was
it to whom Barrington, poor fellow, was so
devoted, and how would she conduct herself
during the interview ? and would Miss
Collyer, his correspondent, turn out anything
like as striking in appearance as her
photograph ? On what errand had these two
forlorn women come ; and would it be a
scene of tears, of hysterics, and of feminine
emotion ? He ardently hoped not ; for he

was not a man inured to or experienced
in such things  out of court.

When, at exactly five minutes past nine,
the knock came to his door, and the pair
entered, Ponsonby, aware of the long
drive necessary to bring them from their
region to his, and remembering the early
hour, felt a sentiment of gratitude and
respect for this display of that virtue of
punctuality somewhat rare amongst women.
As the two followed each other in, he
bowed silently and motioned them to seats.
Both were somewhat thickly veiled as they
entered, but the shorter and slighter threw
back her veil at once, and showed the small
pale face which he at once recognized as
the original of De Witt's photograph. It
was a very pale and a very sad face ; but
the refined delicacy of form and feature
fell pleasantly upon Ponsonby's keen gaze,

and looked strangely out of place in the
squarely-furnished, legal-looking apartment
by which it was framed. She spoke without
hesitation, and her soft, low voice was
full of a patient self-control.

1 am Miss Collyer,' she said ; ' we have
come to ask a favour of you, Mr. Ponsonby.'

Still Ponsonby only bowed, and kept
his keen eyes fixed upon her with a growing
sense of pleasure. The loveliest thing
in woman, he had long thought, was a
lovely voice, sweet and soft and clear ; and
he had never heard one clearer and yet
sweeter than that of this small, slight
woman, with the proud, delicate-lined face.
His scrutiny did not in the least embarrass
her ; she was unaware of it, or of anything
save the errand upon which they had come.

I do not say to ask your advice, Mr.
Ponsonby, for we are quite determined

upon it, if we can find any one who will doit
for us. And I think you can, if you
will.'

And it is 1 ' he asked quietly.

Her face flushed. ' It is not a great
thing to our ideas, but perhaps you may
think it so. It is to send a line, a word
to him  to Barrington, in prison ; nothing
illegal, nothing about escaping  only a word
of comfort from her,' and she bowed her
head towards her companion, * to him.'

There was a moment's pause, during
which Ponsonby averted his eyes and felt
hers searching his face with a pleading
eagerness.

A note, I suppose you mean ? ' he inquired
slowly.

'A very short one  only a few words.
It may not seem a thing of great importance
to you ; but I know how it would

comfort him. And, oli, Mr. Ponsonby, if
you knew how we long to comfort him 
just a little !'

There was another pause.

Do you know that it is a difficult thing
to do ? ' he asked.

Yes. That is the reason we came to
you ; we have heard you are so clever.
His cousin, Sir Simon, would never be able
to do it.'

Ponsonby smiled drily. ' No,' he remarked,
' I shouldn't advise you to offer
Sir Simon the post of a conspirator ; it
wouldn't suit him.'

Is it too much to ask of you, Mr. 
? '

Do you know that it is an illegal action.
Miss Collyer ? ' He smiled again at the
answer, so thoroughly womanly.

Oh, Mr. Ponsonby, how can we think

of tlicif SO long as it can do him any
good % '

He walked to the window, and beo-an
slowly rubbing his eyebrow. Why the
dickens did these two poor pretty women
come to him with their soft ejes and their
gentle voices  to him, a lawyer, asking
him to contravene the law ? It wasn't even
as if the thing asked for could be of any
real service to the poor fellow ; it would bea
sentimental comfort, no doubt, to both
parties, but of no practical use. Both by
education and inclination Ponsonby had a
respect for the law, and was averse to
tampering with its regulations. Also, to
one in his position, such tampering, if discovered,
would probably put a stopper upon
professional success, and perhaps destroy
his career just as it was opening out before
him to the display of its more ambitious

fields. He stood long hesitating and rubbing
this eyebrow ; so long that both women
trembled for the issue of his reflections.
All of a sudden he felt a touch upon his
arm, and looking down, saw a sweet, colourless
face looking up into his pleadingly.

Oh,' whispered Judith, her lips trembling,
' do it for her sake ! Think of her
position. And she has set her heart on
it. She is so young, and her heart is breaking.
I know how good and kind you are.
You will not refuse ? '

Ponsonby glanced once towards the distant
figure  quiet, save for the clasping and
unclasping of the small gloved hands ; then
he looked again upon the eager face, so
unconscious of its own beauty, gazing up
into his, and felt himself helpless. Here
was bribery and corruption with a vengeance
! Poor foolish women ! Either of

them, he felt, wouki have thought nothing
of going down upon their knees and kissing
the very dust off his boots, if thereby they
might have gained a moment's consolation,
the smallest alleviation for the man they
loved.

I will do what I can,' he said ;  but I
cannot promise success, you know.'

It will succeed if you undertake it,' said
Judith, with unconscious flattery ; and the
smile of gratitude that flooded her face was
better reward than any kissing of boots.

Have you the note with you ? ' he asked,
turning towards the girl, who had not yet
spoken.

No,' she said in a low voice ; ' I didn't
know  '

Of course not. Well, you had better
write it now, and intrust it to me, and
I will do what I can with it. Here is

VOL. II. S

paper ; and there are pens and ink in that
room. Make it as small as you can and
he opened a door leading into another
smaller apartment, where the clerk, when
he appeared, was wont to sit and transcribe.


He closed the door upon her, and returned
to Miss Co] Yer.

Is there any hope in the petition ? '
she asked presently, raising her sad eyes to
his.

Miss Collyer, we have many names
down. When Miss Ling wood returns, I
will read them over to you both, to see if
you can suggest any others.'

'No one would refuse who knew him,
scarcely. Every one loves Barrington, I
think.'

Ponsonby bowed his head.

Why do you work for him in this way,

Mr. Ponsonby ? Why are you so good and
kind to poor Barrington ? '

'For two reasons, Miss Collyer. First,
because I believe him to be an innocent
man ; and second, because I have a regard
for him.'

You believe him innocent  quite innocent,
Mr. Ponsonby ? '

I do

I cannot bear to think of some signatures
being given merely because of extenuating
circumstances, or because they think
it not fully proved ; it seems an insult to
him, who never committed a crime in his life.'

We must take all wee can get. Miss
Collyer. The case is too serious to admit
of sentiment.'

Oh, Mr. Ponsonby, have you any hope
that it may succeed ? '

I would rather not say, Miss Collyer 

S 2

it is impossible to say. Such appeals do
succeed at times

While he was still speaking, the inner
door was pushed softly open, and Nell reentered.
Her veil was thrown back, and her
eyes were still wet with weeping, but she
put the letter quietly into Ponsonby's hand.

Is it small enough ? ' she asked.

It will do.'

She had not spent long over the writing
of the few lines. She knew that she could
write nothing better or more calculated to
soothe him in his trouble than the simple
acknowledgment of the tender and absorbing
love that filled her heart ; her only
difficulty was to condense the words that
rushed from the fulness of her heart, through
her pen, to meet him.

Then Ponsonby read aloud his list, to
which both listened attentively and silently,

save where either of the two put in the
suggestion of another name, or a corrected
address.

And then the interview was over, and
the two women, who knew that Ponsonby
was about to start on his work for Barrington,
showed an anxious desire to depart out
of his way as speedily as possible.

They would scarcely accede to his calling
a fresh cab for them, and almost grudged his
escorting them downstairs to the entrance.
Both gave him their hands at parting, and
both tried to speak their gratitude in words,
but poor Nell failed.

Thank you  ' she began in a husky
tone ; but finding it impossible to control
her voice, she got into the carriage hastily
to hide her falling tears.

But Judith held Ponsonby's hand in hers
for a moment, and smiled a little tender

smile of mournfulness, her dark eyes full
of emotion.

'God bless you,' she said earnestly, 'for
your kindness to her  and to him ! '

Busy though he were, the barrister remained
a moment standing before the
entrance, staring after the cab. There was
a darker shade than usual on his sallow,
well-featured face, that faded slowly away
as he remounted the stone stairs towards
his chambers.

To her  and to him. Very good ; but
she might as well have said /'to me!'''
Ponsonby looked for no reward for his
kindly labours, yet the last pronoun would,
he felt, smiling amusedly at himself, have
fallen not unpleasantly upon his ear from
those fine sweet lips.

CHAPTER XIII.

IS ALL HOPE OVER ?

*Is it true, Christ ia heaven, that the strongest
suffer most 1

That the highest mark in Nature is capacity for pain ?
That the anguish of the singer makes the sweetness
of the strain 1 '  Anon.

Mrs. Keith was a somewhat peculiar
woman, who, amongst her small circle of
acquaintance, was not popular. Many
persons. Sir Simon amongst them  palpably
afraid to open his mouth in her presence  
expressed their wonder openly to Miss
Collyer that she should by choice take up
her abode with so unpleasant a person ; and
averring their opinion that she only did so

out of a pure philanthropy and a woman's
desire to sacrifice herself to somebody or
something. But as Judith protested this
was not the case, and that she liked the
companionship of her unpopular friend,
there is reason to suppose that the latter
was possessed of qualities more amiable than
those which appeared on the surface. Perhaps
also Judith knew better than most
people how many and bitter had been the
trials through which Mrs. Keith had passed,
and was conscious that the cold and caustic
exterior of the latter concealed many a still
poignant pang of suffering, both mental and
physical, to which the proud spirit of the
 woman alluded never in words.

In person Mrs. Keith was sharp-featured,
with restless black eyes, a long aquiline
nose, and sallow complexion ; and upon her
lips there dwelt a perpetual thin smile of

sarcasm, probably merely a curl of defiance
at fate, but generally misunderstood by
those who conversed with her as a sneer of
personal meaning. Hence, probably, the
liberal measure of her unpopularity. She
was thin and fleshless to emaciation, and
walked with a crutch, and then with
difficulty. No one would have given her
credit for having been, fifteen years ago, a
girl not only of a fine figure, but of a
comely face. Yet such Judith Colly er, who
had been her schoolfellow, remembered
her ; as she also remembered her with high
and buoyant animal spirits, and without the
caustic smile upon her mouth. She was
about the same age as Miss Collyer,
although she might have been credited with
another ten years. But it is not the
number of years that make us look old, but
the amount we live in them ; and few could

have lived more in a short time than this
luckless woman.

In ten short years she had married, lost
husband, children, health, and a large
fortune. Her husband had been a man of
means, but a drunkard and of dissipated
habits ; and report said that he had for
some years led her an awful life before he
mercifully drank himself to death and left
her in peace. To no one did Mrs. Keith
ever speak of that wretched time ; but
Judith, who knew her relations, had heard
rumours of personal cruelty, of blows, of
threats of murder, of attempted suicide.
More than once, she believed, had the
patient woman gone out at night alone to
seek for her lost and intoxicated husband,
to save him from death by the elements,
or from public exposure ; and, after nursing
him through two or three attacks of that

most terrible of all disorders, delirium
tremens, had watched beside his protracted
and miserable bed of death. Of her two
children, the eldest, a pretty little girl of
six, came to a somewhat mysterious end, of
which it was whispered that a blow from
its drunken father was the primary cause ;
whilst the other, a boy born after its
father's death, wasted gradually away, only
surviving a few weeks. And when Mrs.
Keith, after the removal to the graveyard of
her infant, rose at length from her bed, it
was found that she was become miserably
crippled  through too long standing in
her husband's sick room, or perhaps through
attempting to raise him, said the medical
man.

Not long after Mr. Keith's death, she
had discovered that the comfortable income
which she had fancied hers was more than

half melted away in foolish speculation.
AYith her usual energy, she made an effort
to remedy this by new investments, but
she had scarcely done so when these also
failed largely, and she found herself reduced
to utter poverty. She had been accustomed
all her life to ease and luxury ; but now she
was thankful to put up her horses with
her old schoolfellow, and contribute her
modest quota to the economical little household
at West Kensington.

When, after taking off her outdoor dress,
Judith entered the sitting-room where Mrs.
Keith sat keeping guard over the delayed
breakfast, the quick eyes of the former
readily discovered that it was one of her
companion's 'bad' days. Mrs. Keith was
subject at times to sharp attacks of suffering,
the result of her disease. On these
occasions, however, she never made a complaint

; it was only the increased depth of
the lines about her eyes, and the added
sharpness of her tone that betrayed her.
At such times Judith's manner was always
more gentle and conciliatory even than
usual ; and now to-day, with the pressure
of her present trouble upon her, she had
sympathy to spare for her friend's physical
sufferings, as she bent down and kissed the
sallow, pinched cheek affectionately.

Well, how about your wild-goose chase ? '
inquired Mrs. Keith, to whom Miss Collyer
had confided their intentions already the
night before.

Although perhaps not naturally of a very
communicative nature, there was little that
passed in her daily life which Judith now
concealed from her companion. She had
been driven to this course by the abnormal
sharpness of the latter's wits. As it was

impossible to hide anything in the long run
from Mrs. Keith, when once she had made
up her mind to ferret it out, it had seemed
more graceful to make a virtue of necessity
and confide in her at first. Mrs. Keith had
made no remark last night upon the proposed
expedition, but this morning she
seemed inclined to be captious.

So he is the model of all the virtues, this
new friend of yours, I suppose ? ' she remarked,
when Judith had finished her brief recital.

I don't know about that, but he has a
good heart, I am sure.'

A lawyer with a good heart ! A wolf
without an appetite for flesh ! '

Mr. Ponsonby isn't a simple lawyer, he
is a barrister.'

'I never heard of a *' simple" lawyer in
my life yet, my dear ; at least not one whoever
got auy business.'

It is the fashion to run down some
people,' said Judith quietly  'lawyers and
mothers-in-law and old maids. They differ
quite as much as other people, so far as I
can see.'

What made you go to this stranger, and
not to the devoted Simon ? '

Because I thought a clever barrister a
better person to do it than an unworldly
man like Simon.'

You are right,' laughed Mrs. Keith, who
never lost an opportunity of sneering at the
baronet  for some reason or other always
an irritant upon her nerves ; ' poor dear Sir
Simon's wits are scarcely of the finessing
order ! '

He is a very clever man in his own way,
Marion, as you know,' remarked Judith, as
she poured out the coffee, unselfishly keeping
up the conversation, about which she

cared nothing;, because she knew that
nothing relieved her companion's pain more
than an argument.

Clever ! ' retorted Mrs. Keith. ' Cleverness
is a drawback to one's prosperity in
life. You and I are both clever, Judith ;
and what have our brains done for us ? If
you hadn't been clever enough to see their
deficiencies, you might have settled down
happily with one of your well-to-do lovers,
instead of vegetating in a little London
villa at forty pounds a year rent ; and I,
if I hadn't thought myself too clever to
take any one's advice, I shouldn't first have
married a man whom every one but myself
saw I never could reform, and secondly,
shouldn't have made ducks and drakes of
the last half of my income, by fancying I
could manage business affairs in my own
way.'

'When interpolated Judith, 'you were
saved from absolute beggary by the assistance
of a sensible and upright lawyer

Quite true ; the exception only establishes
the theory.'

At this juncture Nell came in, and was
introduced to Mrs. Keith, both of them
merely bowing in silence.

Mrs. Keith was not by nature a sympathetic
person ; at any rate she was not
demonstrative ; and after one sharp glance
from her keen eyes towards the girl, she
took no further notice of her. If she had
not too much sympathy, however, she had
plenty of tact, and Nell felt grateful to
her for her matter-of-fact manner, as she
spoke occasionally to Judith on household
or other matters. It might sound trivial,
almost cruel to talk of such thing-s to one

whose near relation lay under sentence of

VOL. II. T

death, but the coo] every-day words and
manner were in fact the wisest restraint and
tonic for over-burdened minds. Nell herself
was more self-possessed than she had
been since first the blow had fallen ; she
desired only to be let alone, and silently, all
day long, revolved in her mind with a faint
tension of hope the few words uttered by
Mr. Ponsonby in the morning.

And so the days passed on, and nothing
further of note occurred. Twice Judith
had heard from Sir Simon, and once from
the barrister, on the subject of the petition.
Sir Simon had been very hopeful indeed in
his letters  every one had welcomed him
and sympathized with him, and been anxious
to sign the paper. He seemed to forget
that the longest roll of names does not
insure a man s release. Mr. Ponsonby was
more cautious in expressing his opinion.

He merely remarked that the petition was
popular, and added these words, which
were of great comfort to both Nell and
Judith  ' Tell your friend that her commission
has been successfully fulfilled.'

Then came the day when, as both knew,
the petition was to be given in to the Home
Secretary. And after that the suspense
seemed to drag more heavily, and the
anguish of waiting grew more intense. It
seemed to Judith, looking back afterwards
upon that time, that those two or three
days had been to her simply one living cry
of entreaty to the God above to spare poor
Barrington. To Nell it seemed as if she
could not even pray ; the world passed by
her in a dream ; she eat and drank and
moved and lived as if it had been some one
else, and as if she herself were the incarnation
of one terrible fact, one changeless

T 2

state  the fact and state of waiting, of
uncertainty. Oh, how could any man be so
cruel as to delay so long the decision that
meant life or death, not to the prisoner
only, but to those who loved him so
dearly !

Then came the last day  and still there
was no answer, still no sign of a reprieve,
no word of a changed sentence. And if
no word came that day, on the morrow
Barrington must die. He, an innocent
man, must die a degrading and disgraceful
death. "Would the justice of heaven permit
such iniquity ? Alas ! the justice of heaven
was not at human beck and call ; such
things had before happened, and would
happen again. This was not the first time,
nor would it be the last, in all probability,
when a guiltless man would stand upon the
scaffold, condemned by his fellows to death ;

and as he took his last breath of the
Creator's air, and felt the fatal noose round
his neck, would call vainly upon the mercy
of heaven in that final moment.

Another letter came from Sir Simon that
afternoon, and it was as despairing in tone
as the others had been hopeful. The Home
Secretary had sent no reply ; he had
apparently not stirred in the matter. All
hope was over ; they were bent upon the
murder of an innocent man ; nothing remained
for his relatives but horror.

Judith did not show this letter to her
companion ; indeed she doubted if Nell
would have followed the reading of it. It
seemed as if nothing now, save the glad
news of a reprieve  hope almost extinguished
 could rouse the girl from the
lethargy of her trouble. What would become
of poor Nell were the awful fact to be

consummated ? Would lie lose her mind
in the terrible shock ? Judith's heart was
torn between her unutterable yearnings
over the two of whom she thought almost
equally  the strong young man whose last
day on earth it was, and the girl beside her,
from whose white lips came no sound of
lamentation.

And so the morning grew into afternoon,
and the afternoon into evening, and still
there came no news. And Judith's face grew
old and pinched in those few hours of intense
suffering ; yet her faith in Providence and
her unselfishness towards her fellows failed
not. Whenever, during the endless hours
of that darkened day, she left her knees, it
was to watch with unobtrusive anxiety over
her companion.

Even Mrs. Keith's harsh voice was hushed
to-day, and there was a brilliancy in her

eyes that spoke of suppressed and excited
feeling. To her Judith owed a suggestion
which came as a moment's relief upon that
consciousness of inaction and of inability todo
anything which oppressed her so painfully.
Nell had just risen from her untasted
tea  her white set features looking like a
mask to her companions  and had left the
room ; and Judith, uncertain whether to
follow cr to leave her in solitude, had at
length broken down, and, hiding her face in
her hands, let the streaming tears run through
her fingers. To her, as to Mrs. Keith,
there had seemed something incongruous
and horrible in the sight of this mute girl,
affianced to the man who was to be executed
on the morrow, sitting in meek patience
beside them at a social meal. And yet
anything was better than that she should
sit alone upstairs in her silence and her

misery. It lead been a wet and gloomy
day, and now, although little after seven,
darkness was falling; fast. The bells from
the neighbouring steeple were going for
evening service, and mingled with the drip,
drip upon the pavement outside.

Why not take her to church ? ' asked
Mrs. Keith suddenly, her high voice falling
sharply on the silence.

Judith lifted her head with a start.

It will be better for her than sitting
doing nothing,' she added, as Judith rose
from her seat.

Thank you,' said the other, as she dried
her eyes, ' I will ask her to come,' and
she went upstairs.

A few minutes afterwards, Mrs. Keith
saw them both descending the steps, and
followed them with a gaze contracted by
the pain of past memories.

Is there no limit to the capacity for
human suffering 1 ' she murmured to herself.
' God knows I thought no trouble in
this world was ever so sore as mine, but
this is worse. And yet  my little bonny
Elsie ! No ! mine was more bitter ; there
is no sin mixed up with this trouble of
theirs ! '

Judith had found no difficulty in persuading
Nell to accompany her to church.
The girl merely bowled her head, and passively
suffered her companion to dress her
and lead her out. There was little fear
of meeting with any acquaintance in this
suburban church ; and as the two women
crept silently into a dark corner near the
door, Judith at any rate felt the solemn
calm of the dimly-lighted nave, the soft
harmonies of the organ soothing in some
measure to the restless agony of her sorrow.

She feared it was not so with Nell. The
girl rose and knelt in her silence impassively,
as if in a dream ; but at last she roused
Judith by a touch, and lifted a pitiful face
towards her friend.

Suppose,' she whispered, * it were to
come whilst we were out ? Oh, Judith,
let us go home ! '

Alas ! Judith had no faith now in that
long-wished-for  it ' : she was resigned now
to the worst : but, urged by the demands
of those eyes of agonized entreaty, she rose
and led her companion out of church, back
through the dripping, steaming streets, back
into the little house where all was as they
had left it, where no news of respited death
had arrived to rouse it from its atmosphere
of woe. And Nell went slowly, with dragging
footsteps, up to her room, to sit in her
chair silently, with folded hands and fixed

eyes ; to sit out the hours till when ? Till
the morrow which was to see her lover
die.

There is a degree of physical pain which
reacts upon itself, and, from the simple
inability of the human frame to bear more
than a certain amount of suffering, induces
for a time unconsciousness and consequent
relief. It is the same with a mental strain.
When the cup is full, it can hold no more ;
and a too protracted and intense agony
dulls the heart's capacity for suffering, and
results in temporary apathy. But, alas !
the mental opiate rarely lasts out the duration
of the pain ; the victim awakens
all too soon to the consciousness of the
keen-edged knife probing his inmost soul.

When, after the household had retired to
rest, and Judith once more opened Nell's
door and crept in, she saw the girl had at

length moved. She was kneeling in the
middle of the room, both hands and eyes
upraised, but no tears upon the colourless
cheek, nor any sound coming from between
the white lips. Over the mantelpiece hung
a large engraving of the Crucifixion, and
it was towards this that the motionless
figure raised hands and eyes. She was
evidently unconscious of Judith's entrance ;
and, after a moment's indecision, the other
left her and went out softly. Again she
went in two hours later, but this time Nell
turned slowly towards her, whilst the
smothered words of entreaty came with
difficulty from her lips  ' Leave me ! ' And
Judith obeyed, feeling that sorrow has its
sacred right of solitude.

She did not come again until the dawn
had already made its way for half an hour
or so through the dim atmosphere of a rainy

London morning ; and then she went in
more softly than ever, hoping to find the
poor weary girl asleep. For a moment she
was terrified at seeing the motionless figure
still in the same place, but now half lying,
half crouched upon the floor. Had the girl
died there where she knelt ? She went up
hastily, and as she put her arms round the
prostrate figure, saw with a great relief the
eyes open and gaze at her.

I have tried,' said a voice that sounded
hollow and far away, ' to kneel so all night.
I told Him,' and she turned her haggard
eyes towards the figure on the Cross, * that
I would kneel all night before Him if He
would save his life. Why can't I ? Let me
alone, Judith.'

Was she wandering: in mind ?

Nell,' said Judith solemnly, ' this is
wicked ; you must get up. You have done

it  you have knelt all night. Look, it is
morning now.'

She lifted her up, and the girl staggered
to a chair.

Not to bed ; let me sit here,' she said.
Yes, it is morning  and to-day he dies.
Christ has not heard me ! But,' and she
raised her ashy face with a wan smile on it,
more inexpressibly sad than could be any
tears, ' I don't so much mind now, Judith,
because I know I shall soon go to join
him. Don't cry, poor Judith. I think he
is happy too now ; I know he will be brave
and good. They murdered Christ, you
know ; so why should we think it odd a
man should be murdered ? Perhaps that
was why Christ didn't hear me. He was
keeping a place near Himself for him  for
Barrington '

Judith felt sure that the over-wrought

brain was wandering, and for answer she
only drew the brown head with its disordered
hair towards her, and laid the young lined
face tenderly against her shoulder.

Two hours later she was still kneeling;
beside Nell's chair, when suddenly a loud
peal rang through the house.

A messenger at that early hour could
surely come only upon one subject ! Then,
as the door opened, and Sir Simon's voice
was heard in the hall, Nell grasped her
arm convulsively, and Judith's colour came
and went.

I will go,' she whispered as she rose
hastily. And only as she reached the
bottom of the stairs did she see that Nell
was following her.

At the doorway of the little dining-room
stood Sir Simon.

Is it  ' gasped Judith, unable to say
more.

It is  it is a reprieve ! ' he replied, and
he seized a hand of each. ' And a reprieve
means commutation of sentence. Oh, God
be thanked ! ' he added, the tears running
down his face.

Grot be thanked ! ' she echoed. Then
she suddenly turned towards her companion,
who had sunk upon a chair, her face buried
in her hands. * Leave us, dear good Simon,
for a few moments,' she said ; ' I will come
to you in the drawing-room.'

I could not be here before,' he said ;  I
heard late last night, but too late to come
to you. I have been sitting up all night
till I could bring you the news.' And
wiping his eyes. Sir Simon retreated.

Nell,' said Judith, bending down her
face to the bowed head, ' do you hear it ?
There is a reprieve ! '

I heard it,' replied Nell almost inaudibly.

Oh, Nell ! they say he is safe now, that
the sentence will never be carried out, that
he is saved  Do you understand, dear
Nell ? '

He is quite safe ? They will never doit
now ? ' asked Nell, in the same voice,
raising her face.

Quite safe, Simon says. Oh, Nell, my
darling, God heard our prayers after all ! '

Then a sudden tide of colour swept across
the corpse-like features, and Nell leant back
in her chair, trembling so violently that it
seemed almost as if she would fall face
forwards. But Judith's arms were round
her, and Judith held her fast, pressing lips
full of blessings to the bent head, whilst
blinding tears of relief fell from her eyes.

Safe  saved ! To what ? Now in the
first moment of relief that question had not
as yet presented itself.

VOL. II. u

But there must come a time to the friends
of the reprieved man when they would
realize that the sentence of penal servitude
for life, if less terrible to them than the
sentence of death, was to the prisoner
merely a life in death, a prolonged agony
of suffering more cruel than death itself.

END OF VOL. II.

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS

82.3

T75dZJi
V.3

VOL. III.

BY

GERTRUDE Force,

AUTHOR OF

A lady's tour IX CORSICA," " IX THE OLD PALAZZO,
ETC., ETC.

IN There VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All Rights reserved.

bread street hill, london,

Bungay, Suffolk.

CONTENTS

OF

THE T H I E D VOLUME.

CHAPTER

I, A CONVICT IN PORTLAND,

II. WHO IS THE MAN ? .

III. NEWS FROM THE PRISON .

IV. A TERRIBLE MEETING

V. A PRISONER IS RELEASED

VI. JOHN PONSONBY IN LOVE.

VII. THE convict's WIDOW

VIII. SIR SIMON GIVES A PRESENT TO THE BRIDE

IX. JUDGMENT FALLS UPON THE GUILTY

X. THE murderer's CONFESSION .

XI. THE HONOURABLE JOHN IS HYSTERICAL .

XCHAPTER I.

A CONVICT m PORTLAND.

This is truth the poet sings,
That a sorrow's crown of sorrow is remembering happy-things.'
 Tennyson.

Five months ago ! Ahat a short time

is five months, when days are placidly

monotonous and existence drifts by easily !

what a lifetime it can appear when the

memory is charged with varying and

painful events, when existence has been

forcibly wrenched out of its accustomed

grooves, and when each day brings with

VOL. III. B

it new experiences of a sharp and cruel
nature ! To Barrington De Witt, now a
penal convict in Portland prison, it seemed
almost as if his own old self were dead,
and as if the present self were a new
creation unconnected with the former
man. It seemed to him, on looking back,
as if the real self had died out in the
Tentbury prison ; as if the real self of
the old profession, the old name, the old
nature, had been merely a pleasant and
fanciful dream. Prepared as he had been
for execution, and all hope relinquished, he
had, as it were, passed through the full
bitterness of death ; and when they came
to announce to him the reprieve on that
as he had believed  last night of his
life, the news had come too late to spare
him the deepest dregs of the cup of shame
and agony. He heard of the reprieve

without emotion, as he would have ascended
the scaffold next morning without
dismay ; the powers of darkness had been
battled with, and the struggle was now
over, and he listened as one in a dream,
apathetic and unmoved.

They had thought him insensible, hardened,
what not  it mattered not to him.
He was now only a goods, a slave, a
machine, to be sent about from place to
place, and worked at the nation's will.
He was now only a number on a list of
criminals ; no longer a name, a person, oran
individuality. All resistance, all spirit
had died out of him for the moment, and
he moved about obediently, patiently, at
the bidding of his jailers, unheeding their
roughness, deaf to their coarse familiarity.
In the shock of a new existence such as this,
the existence simply of a degrading monotony'

B 2

of mental inaction and physical toil, an educated
man for a time is apt to lose the consciousness
of his higher faculties, to forget
that he has a spirit, a soul, or an intellect.
The gentleman, the soldier, the nun, Barrington
told himself, was dead  merged in
this labelled, animal tldng which now, by
so terrible a metempsychosis, was all that
was left to represent its former self  a
thing upon which he gazed with so deep
and cruel a contempt, as upon something
distinct and separate from that former self
which he honoured and had lost.

These were feelings which endured for
some time, and during their continuance
brought with them a certain callousness
to fate and apathy to surrounding circumstances
which acted as an alleviation to
pain : but they could not last for ever.
There came a day, not many weeks later.

when the scales of apathy slipped from
the prisoner's eyes, when he once more
recognized within himself the man, the old
self, not transformed, bat merely transfigured,
and owned himself a sentient being:
as of old, capable of emotion, of suffering,
of despair. It is so with all of us  all
those who have the capacity for sounding
the depths of sorrow : there is, at first,
after a great loss, a great shock, a moment
of mental suspension, of semi-unconsciousness,
before we wake to the full perception
of the blow, the keen and bitter realization
of our own overthrow. It is at this time
ordinarily, and not at the first, that the
spirit of endurance is apt to break down,
and this period it is which, more than any
other, proves the mettle of the individual
man or woman.

About this time a batch of prisoners.

amongst whom was De Witt, was removed
from the London jail to the convict establishment
at Portland  that dreary pile
that stands above the ever-moaning sea,
and raises grim and massive walls from
its foundation of limestone rock. To Barrington
this removal was at once a solace
and yet an added pain. All his life he
had loved the sea, and many of his happiest
days had been spent beside it ; yet from
that very cause, how bitter was the contrast
of the present with the past ! What
merry hours he had passed wandering
about the flat shores of Norfolk with old
Simon, gun in hand, laughing at his
cousin's skilful inability to hit anything
winged or four-footed ; how he had scoured
the brown and purple Scotch moors with
his father for the same purpose, slowly
tracking the snipe or curlew by the soft

grey waves and luminous sky ; or had
loved to boat upon a boisterous sea when
quartered with his regiment in Ireland.
And then the shore at Naples, and Waifs
appearance there ; and  bitterest thought
of all  Capri with her many-coloured rocks
and malachite waters, her spires of foam
and her mysterious caverns  Could he, the
convict at Portland, daily going forth to
his appointed task as a labourer, clad in
the dress of disgrace, be the same man who
had lain upon the myrtle-scented slopes in
beautiful Capri, looking up into the face of
a pure and lovely girl, the face of the woman
he loved, and the woman who loved him ?

The first time these thoughts came upon
him De Witt involuntarily covered his eyes
with his hand and shuddered. But a hand
will not shut out memory, nor can anyone
turn aside the pitiless stab of the sword

it wields to those in misfortune  a sword
piercing through to the very soul.

De Witt was young, and he was strong ;
he displayed no aptitude for the lighter
indoor employments, so he was placed in
the gang of those apportioned off to the
quarry work. It was the hardest work of
all, but to him the most acceptable. At
any rate there was the open sky, the fresh
air ; they could not rob him of the blueness
of the heavens, the sweet saltness of the
sea breezes, the harmonious chanting of
the rising and falling billows. In winter
it might, nay, must be  amid the vicissitudes
of a damp and chilly climate 
laborious and painful toil ; but now, in this
sunny, balmy autumn weather, it was not
without its many alleviations. There could
never be the same sense of imprisonment,
never the same sense of contamination

with the low and depraved community of
criminal units, nothing like the same
monotony, as in the indoor life.

Was all the rest of life to be occupied in
like toil ? Should he ever escape from the
daily grind, and be once more free ? Or
must the future stretch before him in a
vista of hopelessness only to end in death ?

No ; it was possible that he might at
some long future date make his way out
from convict life, become a ticket-of-leave
man, wander forth once more, if supervised
and overlooked, at any rate ostensibly
free to go where he liked, to do as he
liked  yet for ever with the brand of Cain
upon his brow.

But what mattered that if liberty were
regained ? There were moments when De
AVitt felt that one day of freedom would
be worth purchasing by all the good opinion

of his fellow-men. He felt himself now
so completely divided from those fellowmen,
so averse to the mere idea of ever
again becoming one of them, sharing acain
in their pursuits, moving in their company,
that it seemed at times as if their
good or bad report had lost its savour
with him. Without this faint, far-distant
hope, Barrington felt he could scarcely have
kept life or reason going.

There were opportunities by which a man
engaged in the quarry work might put an
end to an unendurable existence  a quick
leap into the depths of the boiling sea, a fall
from some height upon the pitiless rocks.
A cowardly act no doubt it was  at least
so said the prosperous and un tempted ; but
to a desperate man, possibly the one escape
from a lifelong hell. Happy perhaps were
the old Romans in accounting suicide a

noble and a manly thing ; and severe was
the faith of the Christian in condemning it
as the deed of the coward. Was it fair to
call a man a coward because he chose
instant death rather than prolonged torture ?
And there rose up in his memory one of
the letters of Pliny the younger  that
sensible, kindly, worldly old Woman  a
letter read years ago, in which he held upto
eulogy the example of more than one
suicide, praising the heroism and the lofty
character of those who, sooner than live
disgraced, or survive that which they held
most dear upon earth, had taken life with
their own hands. And was not loss of
liberty, loss of honour, best of all motives for
divesting a human being of the love of life ?
It was easy, as I have said, to do  easy
for a determined man  yet De Witt put
the thought instinctively aside. He was no

ancient Woman, with a perverted morality
and a false ideal of courage ; and he knew
that in calmer moments his reason concurred
in the verdict of Christian ethics ;
and should he, who had lost all this world
could give, lose also the one thing left to
him  his own self-respect ?

And Nell  whose name, the very thought
of whom sent so bitter a pang through his
being, and yet whose love was the sweetest
sadness of past memories should he add
another sting to her cruel sufferings, throw
away the one chance of ever again setting
eyes upon the human face he yearned most
to see once more before he died ? Years and,
years it might be, it must be ; but he was
young and strong, and the day might come
it was enough to live upon, a faint ray of
hope to illumine the blackness of the daily
despair. Not to love her, not to be hers again

not even to touch her hand or to hear
sweet words of comfort from her faithful lips
but to catch one more sight of that dear
face, to look once more  himself unseen 
into those true and tender eyes, to know
that she was contented and had forgotten.
Yes, pray God she might forget ! Pray
God that her wounded heart might in time
be healed ; even  he nerved himself in his
great love to say  that she might knit up
the broken strands of the sorrowful past ina
new and more prosperous love. Pray
God that she might some day find a man
worthy of her noble nature, that she might
re-set the foundations of her life under
happier conditions ; for never would he,
whether he returned to the outer world
in youth or age, recall to her the past,
never would he voluntarily seek her
presence save for that one brief glimpse 

never again hear from her or say to her
words of love. Such conduct would indeed
be the lowest depths of mean and selfish
despotism : and the greater a man's love and
the more enduring a woman's constancy, the
more impossible would it be to any honourable
mind.

But although self-destruction seemed to
De Witt a thing ignoble and repulsive, yet
escape, if possible, he would have reckoned
a fair and righteous act. His sentence
was unjust, his punishment unmerited;
why should he not regain the liberty that
had been unlawfully wrested from him, if
by any means he might? And, for the
chance of that liberty he would gladly have
risked death. Often he thought upon the
matter, as his eyes wandered restlessly from
the well-guarded labour-ground around him
to the waves that chafed beneath his feet.

And the more he thought upon the subject,
the more its utter hopelessness and impossibility
struck him.

Would he cast himself into the sea and
swim for his life ? The guns of the armed
warders would soon end that attempt.
Would he escape by land ? Even if he
mano-ed in that case to evade the vigilance
of the watchmen, how should he vanquish
the cruel impossibility of the Chesil Bank ?
He had visited the Chesil Bank in young
and happy days  he had laboured laughing
as a boy along the slope of stones, little
thinking that the time would ever come
when it would lie as the implacable barrier
between himself and attempted liberty.
Now, in stormy, gloomy days, he listened
to the ceaseless moan that broke along its
desolate shores, and realized with a strange
bitterness its invulnerableness, its cruelty.

God help the poor drowning wretch, whose
vessel struck upon that treacherous bank,
and who strove with failing arms to grasp
those sliding, slipping stones ! God have
pity upon the still more wretched prisoner,
whose exhausted feet strove to distance
pursuit or to escape from captivity along
that inhospitable and hopeless stretch of
grey gravel, with floundering, wearying
steps, and eyes of despair, before which
it must seem to extend for ever further and
further in its fearful monotony of glaring
sunshine or of clinging mist !

Some there had been that had tried both
ways ; but not one, so far as he could hear,
with success. Some, to facilitate their
escape, had committed murder ; it was so
comparatively easy to do that in the quarry
work  a loose stone, the opportune fall of a
lump of granite or pickaxe could disable a

warder so quickly ; but to such a crime
as that De Witt had little temptation.
Terrible as was his yearning at times for
liberty,  a fever that ate, like the Spartan
fox, into the very vitals of the man,  yet
it never occurred to him to endeavour to
regain his liberty by violence towards an
unoffending person. Since that one outbreak
of madness in the county prison,
he had made no further effort to defy
authority, and was now quiet and obedient
above the average, and regarded with favour
by his particular house warder. The habits
and discipline of a soldier were not without
their value during a time when the mind
of the natural man was crushed by misfortune,
and when the spirit was confronted
by a stern necessity which rendered struggle
futile.

One consolation there was, which helped

VOL. III. c

much to alleviate De Witt's trouble. This
was one which had certainly not been within
his expectations. He had found a friend.

Even within a convict prison all are not
equally bad,  some are not bad at all ; and
De Witt's friend, although by no means
a guiltless man, was one worthy both of
regard and of compassion. He was one of
those victims of unlucky circumstances and
of cruel temptation that so often take their
place in the docks of our criminal courts.
He had early told his history to De Witt,
for whom he appeared to have conceived an
affection at first sight, and whom he sought
out for a few words of conversation whenever
there was any chance of doing so
without being noticed. This was a somewhat
risky thing to do, for, as a general
rule, whenever a warder observed any two
prisoners endeavouring to set up anything

like an intimacy together, he thought it his
first duty to divide them as much as possible.

Both Da Witt, however, and his friend
were prisoners so unobtrusive and so well-behaved,
that more than one of the warders
(who happened, strange to say in such a
profession, to have some remnant of a
kindly heart left devoured by the brutalizing
influence of his surroundings) winked
at the trifling offence, which meant no harm
to them or the State, but so much of comfort
to the two men.

Geoffrey Kainsford was a young man 
younger than De AVitt  whom even the
dress and shears of a convict establishment
could not rob of a singular beauty and
refinement of countenance. His features
were well-cut, his eyes magnificent, and his
voice the sweetest, Barrinoton thought the
first time he heard it, that had ever struck

C 2

upon his ear. He was peculiarly gentle in
manner, and had that kind of delicacy of
appearance that usually marks out the
naturally consumptive person.

His story, as he told it his companion,
was a sad and brief one. As a very young
man he had been articled by his father,
himself a lawyer, to a London firm of
solicitors, but had never had much taste for
the work, being mad upon the study of
music, and possessed of a good tenor voice.
In London he followed his favourite pursuit
with much greater ardour than the law ; and
at last, to his father's indignation, threw
up the office altogether, and accepted an
engagement in some subordinate part in an
operetta then successfully running at one
of the theatres. In this part he did so
well and gave so much satisfaction, that
the following season he was offered a far

better engagement, which he accepted ; and
before long found himself making a good income,
with an ambitious future before him.

Under these circumstances he settled
down and married  married a girl with
whom he had been in love ever since his
arrival in London, and who made his home
supremely happy. But the marriage, to
which he vainly endeavoured to reconcile
his parents, proved the final division between
himself and them.

She was the sweetest and most refined
of women, asserted poor Geoffrey ; but
unfortunately she was the daughter of a
shop-keeper, and herself a music mistress.
His father considered it a mesalliance; and
from that date refused all further communication
with the young man.

Notwithstanding this drawback, however,
the young tenor in his new-made happiness

found no reason to regret the step he had
taken, until an event happened as sudden
as it was unforeseen and calamitous.

The part he had taken in the opera proved
too great a strain upon him. A disease
he had never suspected made its terrible
appearance, and one night he was carried
home from the theatre suffering from a
violent hemorrhage of the lungs.

From that time forward the career he
loved and in which he had prospered so
greatly became closed to him.

When at length he recovered from a long
and wearing illness, it was to hear the fiat
of the doctor, that he must choose betwixt
his snoring; and his life. Submission was
the only course left open to him, and he
thought himself fortunate in obtaining the
post of clerk in a solicitor's firm, to whom
he had been slightly known in former

legal days. But his long illness had exhausted
all previous earnings, and his salary
now was but a pittance compared with the
income he had earned upon the stage.

Day by day the pressure of poverty
grew harder, not only upon himself, but
upon the young wife, whose necessity for
ease and good fare was for the first time
absolute ; and who now for the first time
since their marriage began to lose heart,
and, as he feared, health daily. It was
unendurable to him to see her round cheek
growing daily more pinched, to hear her
voice daily more languid, and to know that
a continuance of poverty and privation
might imperil the life both of herself and of
the expected child. He it was who had
brought her to this ! Should he see her
die for want of a few luxuries ? So one
day, when the opportunity occurred, the

temptation was unresisted. A sum of
money  it was not much, fifteen pounds 
paid in to the firm came in his way ; and,
prompted by an evil spirit, he took it. The
transaction would not, in the natural course
of things, come under the notice of the partners
until the monthly accounts were made
up three weeks hence ; and before that time
his wife's troubles would be over, and his
own quarter's salary be paid, when he would
refund the borrowed (?) sum, and no one be
any the wiser or the worse for the act.

But when do things go in their natural
course, if by any chance an unusual
importance attaches itself to their doing
so ? Not many days after Kainsford had
abstracted the fifteen pounds some accidental
trifle laid the whole matter before
his employers, and he was brought face to
face with the accusation of a felony. It

was in vain for him to plead his ardent
temptation, his innocent intentions ; such
excuses have been too often urged before
in like circumstances to have much weight.
The partners were stern and unrelenting
men, who were the less inclined to clemency
from the fact that it was the second time
during the year that they had been robbed
by one of their clerks. The first misdemeanour
they had simply dismissed, but
the second they prosecuted. And before
the three weeks were over, Eainsford had
been tried, found guilty, and sentenced to
five years' penal servitude.

"Whilst awaiting his trial his child had
been born ; and now he had no hope of
seeing wife or babe until the five long years
were over. One consolation, however, had
been his : both wife and child were living and
doing well, and here and there a friend seemed

rising up to pity and assist the poor forlorn
young mother, whose monthly letters  one
of which the young man showed to De Witt,
with the tears shining in his dark eyes 
breathed the tenderest spirit of love and
constancy to her imprisoned husband.

I shall never see her again,' he remarked,
a quiet sadness in his face and tone. * It
seems a little out of proportion, does it not
the sentence of death in return for one
imprudent action ?  for theft I never meant
it to be, God knows ! '

Why the sentence of death ? ' asked De
Witt ; * five years will soon be over.'

And, thinking of his own life-conviction,
his brow grew gloomy.

 Do you suppose,' replied the other,
that such as I shall ever manage five years
in this sort of existence ? One will probably
see me out. If I had your physique

now  ' And he gazed with a sweet, sad
smile at Barrington's athletic frame and firm-flashed
limbs. ' I shouldn't mind for myself
so much ; it's for her. my poor Florence  '

It's a pity we can't exchange constitutions
said De Witt with bitterness. ' The
only use of mine is to prolong my punishment,
you see  But perhaps,' he continued,
*you will get off before  you will
have some of your time remitted, you know,
certainly  '

Before that time comes I shall be in
another world,' was the quiet response. ' 1
shall never be free in this.'

You should ask to see the doctor. Such
a man as you are manifestly unfit for this
hard labour,' remarked De Witt, who had
often noticed the flush upon his companion's
cheek, and heard his panting breath.

I know it ; it is only a question of weeks

before it brings on a return of the hemorrhage.
But what can I do ? The open air
is a necessity to me; I should die just as
soon cooped up in-doors. And this is better
while it lasts  here one can at least see
something fair to look upon  one can at
least have one's own thoughts to oneself.'

You might go into the infirmary now,'
said De Witt ; ' you are not up to work  it
is killing you.'

Kainsford shuddered.

Anything sooner than that ! ' he said
quickly. ' De Witt, t/iai is the only thing
I dread  a long illness in the infirmary. If
only I might die out here beneath the sky !
Sometimes t/iat thought tempts me to fling
myself over those rocks down there. If I
pray for nothing else as I ought, I pray, 
God forgive me,  as every convict 7nicst, for
sudden death ! '

CHAPTER 11.

WHO IS THE man'?

Give sorrow words : the grief that does not speak
"Whispers the overwrought heart, and bids it break.'

Shakespeare.

Nell was still staying at the little house
in West Kensington, when a letter arrived
from Barrington, addressed to Sir Simon,
and sent on by the latter to Judith. It was
short and constrained in tone ; but, as Mr.
Ponsonby had explained to them, it would
have to be written under supervision  and
who could expect a natural tone under
these circumstances ?

Do not return it wrote Sir Simon, with

delicate consideration, * if either of you wish
to keep it. There is no fear of my forgetting
what the poor fellow says.'

Such as it was, however, it was something
of a comfort to both Nell and Judith,
if only because it was a link between them
and him, lost as he was in that strange
shut-in world which seemed to have no
part in theirs.

I have just been told that I may write,
and as perhaps you may wish it, I will
do so. You will be allowed to answer this
if you do so at once. I do not know that
I can tell you anything  you know my
sentence. I am quite well. I should like
to thank you and Ponsonby and all others
who have worked for me and been kind tome
 also Aunt Judith and the other. God
bless and reward her for her words of
comfort to me. Tell her this.

Barrington

That was all  truly a barren epistle to
those who yearned with hearts of love and
pity over the prisoner, yet a painful and
difficult effort on his part, and to them 
far better than nothing. To poor Nell it
was an unspeakable consolation. He bade
God bless her for her words  her little note
had reached him, and been a help to him
in his greatest hour of need ! He thought
of her now, he loved her, he blessed her.
The brief, sad letter was read and re-read
through blinding tears, and then placed in
her bosom. Never was letter more welcome
than the one which, coming from that
convict prison, was found worthy to rest
near the heart of a young and virtuous
and beautiful girL There it should lie
night and day to remind her of him, until
they were reunited, if such joy ever were
accomplished ; if not, until her death.

A week or two later there came a letter
from Blanche Hopkins, now married and
become Blanche Wanton, in New York.
The letter was like Blanche herself, truehearted,
impulsive, and loving. She was full
of deepest indignation against De Witt's
accusers, and tenderest compassion for her
friend's trouble. The whole account of the
trial, as also of the remission of the capital
sentence, had found its way into one of
the American papers, and been read by her.
She expressed herself in no measured terms
regarding the utter stupidity and culpability
of those who could persuade themselves that
such a man as De Witt could be guilty of
a crime like murder ; and her hot, full
sympathy acted as a balm on Nell's outraged
feelings, as her outspoken abuse of Mr.
Brereton would have astonished that gentleman
had he been made acquainted with it.

There is only one thing left for you todo,
Nell,' she concluded. ' Keep your eyes
open in every direction for the real criminal.
If your step-brother was really murdered,
then some one must have done it, and that
some one must and shall be discovered.
Any day the clue may be found, the mystery
may be solved. Keep up your heart  you
never know when this may happen. Never
lose hope or activity in the matter  I don't
mean talking about it, but watching for
some indication to put you on the right
track. The police are so foolish all over
the world, and more especially, they say,
in England, that their opinion and their
conclusions are not worth the least consideration.
Oh, my poor darling Nell,
how I wish I were with you  how I wish
I could comfort you ! I have been crying

s all morning about you, and that poor dear
VOL. III. D

darling; fellow, God bless him ! I feel so
frightfully mad about it all. But don't you
give up hope. You and Barrington are
both young. The real man may be tracked,
or may confess. Anyhow, write and tell
me every detail you can think of regarding
the murder and all that went before and
after it for some days. Tell me what
friends and enemies your brother had, and
if they found any queer letters written to
him, after his death. Find out about this,
and tell me if you suspect any one the
least bit, and if Captain De Witt did.
Who knows if I may not be as good as
al] your lawyers and Q.C.s? A woman's
wit's worth something, I guess, especially
if she comes from this side of the duck-pond.'


This letter Nell answered from the Cedars,
whither she had returned soon after receiving

it ; and for a while she allowed it
to buoy her up with a faint hopefulness
that by degrees faded away again into the
old despairing apathy, yet not so entirely
as to banish from her memory the injunction
of her friend.

But if the weight of trouble upon Nell's
mind had been as much as she could bear
whilst staying with her London friends,
the burden was far worse at home. She
had a brave and dutiful spirit, and she
fought her battle day by day ; yet the
struojorle was almost too much for her.
Never for one moment was the thought out
of her mind, never for one moment was
the aching pain withdrawn from her spirit ;
and at times she felt as if she could no
longer stand upright, but must lay down
her weapons, and give herself up, body and
soul, a prey to the sickly despair for ever

D 2

watching to destroy her. She was so weary,
so torn by this ceaseless pain. If only she
might have toiled and suffered in bodily
effort for him ; but to be eternally thinking,
thinking, thinking, dwellings on the cruel
facts, on the happy past, and on the hopeless
future, without change of idea or
necessity for action  this was the deadliness
of the thing, this it was that at times
seemed as if it would vanquish her, would
overthrow her reason or her faith, or, at any
rate, her tottering self-control. And then
when she knew she could no longer fight
or pray, when she said to herself, ' What
is the good  why should I live ? '  then, asa
last resource, the faint phantom of hope
was called in, and bid to stand up and
support her moral equilibrium.

He will yet come out of prison, the
real murderer will yet be found, we shall

still meet again some day ! ' And the
poor stricken soul would turn and hug
the phantom to its breast, and weep over
it, and bless it, and be comforted once
more.

And so the weeks and months passed
on, and only one event came to break
the sorrowful monotony of the girl's life.
This was her meeting one day with James
Barrett. The under-keeper had returned
from the neighbourhood of Tentbury, and
was acrain at his father's cottage. He was
sitting on the stile, moodily reflecting, one
bright summer's evening, when Nell came
suddenly upon him. The young man gave
a start when he saw her, and touching his
cap, began hastily to move away. It was
the first time she had seen him since all
the terrible events which had so changed
the course of life for her ; and it struck

her that his countenance wore a deeper
gloom than it had used to do.

Moved by a sudden impulse, she called
to him as he walked away.

'Jim!' she said; and the young fellow
stood still and turned towards her.

'Jim, I have never seen you since  Mr.
Robert's death.'

She spoke without hesitation, her eyes
fixed upon his face.

No, miss,' he replied, without change of
countenance.

There was a pause ; then she continued, 

They have condemned a man ; but he
was not the one who did it 1 '

James Barrett remained staring at her
silently. Suddenly, however, his look
shifted, and for a moment his colour
changed, as she moved a step forward.
There was a fierce glow in her eyes, a light

of passion, of repressed feeling such as the
young gamekeeper had never encountered
before from man, woman, or child, as she
sought his and forced Jim to return her
gaze.

Jim Barrett, do you know anything of
Robert Brereton s murderer ? '

I know nothing, miss,' he returned
sullenly ; ' how should I ? '

His manner seemed natural enough ; had
she any warranty for seeming to suspect
him of so great a crime ? Yet, as she
turned away, she added one more word.

God only knows if you speak the truth,'
she said in concentrated tones ; ' and if my
words wrong you, I ask your pardon, Jim.
But if not, and you know anything of this
and have kept it back, may He judge
between you and the innocent at your last
hour ; for you will have murdered two

men, and the second crime more cruel than
the first ! '

Whilst she spoke he had remained
motionless ; but so soon as the low stern
voice ceased, and the flashing eyes were
removed from his, he slouched away
quickly. As he did so he passed his hand
across his brow and shuddered. He seemed
to feel his sight for a moment weakened
by that blinding, burning gaze. Had she
cursed him ? What had she said about his
last hour ? What a fool he was to tremble
at a woman's words ! But he had never
met any woman before whose looks, whose
tone had been like this woman's. And he
slunk away like a threatened hound, more
morose than ever.

And Nell went home trembling, yet
feeling a momentary vigour from the encounter.
Could it be that the young man

knew or guessed anything about Robert's
death ? Had she not been cruel and unjust
in showing him her suspicions  suspicions
indeed which she knew had only been
awakened in her during her daily brooding
over the matter since De Witt's conviction ;
and which, but for Blanche Hopkins's letter,
she would probably never have ventured to
put into words. She walked home slowly,
her hand upon Waifs head. They often
walked together thus, she and the dog,
when Nell's trouble especially oppressed
her. It seemed to give her some slight
comfort to have beside her the faithful
animal which Barrington had loved so well ;
whilst Waif delighted to feel the touch of
her fingers, and would accommodate his
steps to hers to keep them there.

Waif was Nell's constant companion and
her greatest consolation. The dog was

devoted to her, and could not bear her out
of his sight. He had been much out of
spirits during her absence in London, and
his joy at her return knew no bounds.
Either the loss of the master he loved or
the sad disposition of his present mistress
had sobered his spirit, and he was not
nearly so playful now as he had been wont
to be. He often sat before her, his silky
head upon her lap, his beautiful brown eyes
raised to hers, watching her face for a smile
or a word  for Waif was the only living
creature that could still bring a smile to the
girl's sorrowful lips  and it seemed to Nell
as if he were asking her of Barrington,
inquiring why he had been divided from
him, and when he should see the bright face,
and hear the cheery voice again calling to
him to come out for one of the old happy
rambles about the country-side.

And then she would put her face down to
his, the soft white cheek lying close beside
the smooth black muzzle, and, with her arms
round his neck, and her tears upon his coat,
whisper to him softly about those old days,
about the dear vanished master, and the
happiness that never more would return to
any three of them. Perhaps he understood
something of what she told him. He was
very still whilst she rested her face against
his and talked to him, only stretching out
now and then a loving tongue to lick the
wrist beside his neck ; and when she had
done, he would raise his wistful eyes full of
love and sympathy, and, putting one strong
paw upon her knee, creep up closer to
squeeze his head against her breast.

There was only one thing that Waif loved
better than his mistress, only one thing for
which he would desert her  and that was

Barrington's old shooting-coat, the one which
he had flung upon the ground on leaving
his inn at Cotswold Moors for the last time,
bidding; his door watch over it till his return.
There are no sophistries, no expediencies
in a dog's mind ; circumstances to them do
not alter cases in a matter of obedience ;
and Waif seemed still to consider that
obligation binding upon him. Had not the
coat been taken from him by force by Nell,
(he would have permitted no one else to do
so,) it is probable that the greater part of
his life would have been spent in fulfilling
the injunction. His joy whenever he was
allowed to have it and to lie upon it was
touching to witness  though none but Nell
herself knew of this characteristic, or indeed
of the existence of the garment the poor
beast loved so faithfully, perhaps as a reminder
of his lost friend, and hers.

CHAPTER III.

NEWS FROM THE PRISON.

'The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the
year,
Of wailing winds and naked woods, and meadows
brown and sere.'  William C. Bryant.

Spring had merged into summer, and
Nell and her door continued to live a life
apart. The girl grew daily more gentle,
quiet, and submissive ; all the old wilful
temper and proud spirit seemed to have
died out of her, and the impulsive nature
to have undergone a transformation. Formerly
she had been gay, outspoken, and
prominent in the home life ; now she

was silent and reserved ; and if on rare
occasions a smile came to lier still, sweet
lips, it was sadder to see than tears upon
a happy face.

On one point, however, Nell showed her
old firmness  she would neither go into
society nor assist in receiving it.

Mrs. Brereton did not press the point at
first, though she fancied the girl's wound
would heal the quicker if she would not
eschew all change and excitement ; since
Nell shrank from it, let her have her own
way for a time. It was not within the
power of the elder woman's kindly, shallow
disposition to comprehend her daughter's
feelings. She would have found it difficult
to realize that there are natures which never
forget, to whom a wound such as this must
leave a life-long scar, and who will bear a
burden about with them  it may be silently

and patiently  until death lifts it from
their shoulders.

Mrs. Brereton was very kind, very affectionate
to her daughter in her way : she
pressed her to come for pretty drives, she
tempted her appetite with especial dainties,
she inquired after her health with a tender
anxiety  yet could not both mother and
daughter help feeling that they were slowly
drifting away the one from the other.
There was much mutual good feeling, little
or no real sympathy.

The one subject on which Nell thought
night and day was never named between
them ; it was better so, both felt. How
could the girl talk about her trouble to the
wife of the man who had . brought this
wreck upon her life and the life of him
whom she loved and believed wronged ?

As for Mr. Brereton, more and more he

seemed to shrink away from the address
and even the presence of his step-daughter.
He avoided her daily more and more, from
motives he would have found it hard to
define. Were they compunction, anger, or a
carefully-repressed, vague, horrible suspicion
that perhaps he had been too precipitate,
that possibly he had helped to blast two
innocent lives ? And they now rarely met
except at dinner-time  a silent meal, quickly
hurried over, and dreaded by all three asa
diurnal trial. j

A change of a sort was observed at this
date in Mr. Brereton ; he was quieter,
kinder, more silent than of old, and his
bursts of irritable temper of less frequent
occurrence. His wife had a better time
of it than she had known for years ; yet
sometimes, as she gazed at the pale face
of her daughter, and noticed the strange

silence of the large household, she could
have wished the past once more restored,
even with its concomitants of constant
nagging and repent curtain lectures.

Everything was so still, so dull, so quiet
about the Cedars now ; the poor woman
sometimes shuddered with a nervous loneliness.
There was not even the sound of
a gun near the house, no parties of young
people starting from the hall door on horseback,
Nell among them, to some distant
expedition, no going to races or tennis
tournament, no balls or dinner-parties at
home or abroad. Even callers were few
and far between now ; the house seemed to
have acquired an evil reputation with the
terrible events of the winter ; and the young
and gay seemed to shrink from coming to it.
One or two there were  young men belonging
to the neighbouring county families

VOL. III. E

who still, impelled by the beauty and
misfortunes, or maybe by the money expectations
of the heiress at the Cedars, kept
up, or tried to keep up, the old intimacy
with Miss Lingwood ; but even they, on the
rare occasions on which they met and spoke
to her, were so impressed by the cold apathy
of her voice and manner, that they fell away,
and by degrees came no more. Only one
had the courage to remain and prosecute his
suit under such hopeless circumstances ; and
he, when at length he spoke, received so
strange, so weary a dismissal, that in after
times he wondered at himself for ever
fancying there could have been a hope.

The greatest interest of Nell's life now
lay in the letters she received from Judith
Collyer. The sympathy between these two
had knit up a very tender friendship. To
Judith Nell could write without reserve,

when her heart felt too fall to keep silence
any longer. But Judith's letters were not
all on the one sad subject ; she wrote often
cheery little bits of gossip on any matter
that she thought might interest Nell. She
was one of those who can be bright and
cheerful even under the pressure of a real
trouble, when she knew that by its display,
she could but add to the weight of the
troubles of others. From her Nell heard
that Mr. Ponsonby had found time, notwithstanding
his many engagements, to call
twice at West Kensington ; and also, that
Mrs. Keith had actually invited him one
Sunday to join in a family dinner, to which
Sir Simon, then stopping in town, had
asked himself.

Mrs. Keith, wrote Judith, was quite uncommonly
partial to Mr. Ponsonby. She,
who liked so few people, quite brightened

E 2

up at his coming. She admired his wit ;
and the two together were quite brilliant.
Mr. Ponsonby suits me she had said ; ' I
enjoy his conversation. He shall come and
talk to me whilst Sir Simon is philandering
after you, Judith.' An arrangement into
which Mr. Ponsonby fell quite naturally
and pleasantly, the result being a merry,
cosy little dinner-party.

August was coming to a close, when a
letter of deeper interest arrived for Nell
from her friend. It enclosed a second
note from Barring ton, again written to Sir
Simon, and short almost as was the first.
There was a visible effort again observable in
the tone of this brief epistle ; yet, as before,
both women felt it was an unspeakable
comfort to them to hear from the prisoner
by his own pen. He began by thanking
Sir Simon for his letter, and forwarding

thanks to all those who had sent him
messages  among whom Nell and Judith
knew themselves to be included  stated
again that he was perfectly well, and told
his cousin that he had been removed to
Portland. ' Send this letter on to whom
you will he ended ; ' you know to whom
I would wish it sent ; but tell her that I
would rather that she did not write to me.'

Why did he not wish her to write to him ?

Nell asked herself, as she pressed the
short sad letter to her lips. Was it that he
could not bear the idea of her name being
known to those who overlooked the prisoner's
correspondence ? Anyhow, she would
obey him ; he knew her too well to doubt
for one moment that her obedience had any
other meaning than the fulness of a love
which was strong enough to be silent.

Of this letter, as of the first, Mrs. Brereton

never heard. What would have been her
feelings had she known of communications
forwarded from the convict at Portland to
her daughter it would be difficult to say.
She was spared the trouble of any reflection
upon the matter. She did not even know
of De Witt's present situation, nor, indeed,
of any of the circumstances of the case ;
she had merely heard that his death-sentence
had been commuted into one of
penal servitude for life, and with this more
merciful verdict she was, for her own
part, fully satisfied. According to her not
strictly logical class of mind, that was just
how things should be. A man certainly
guilty of murder (in her opinion) should
be executed ; certainly innocent, should be
acquitted ; but if a case of ' not proven,'
he had better be imprisoned for life. It
would be a most foolish and unwise thing

to allow any one, who might possibly have
been guilty of a crime of violence, to go
about at large. This was her course of
reasoning, and there are many who reason
like her.

In any case she would have considered
anything in the shape of a correspondence
between De Witt and Nell as most reprehensible
and undesirable. There was
no doubt in her mind that her daughter
must and would forget the man  any other
course of conduct appearing to her monstrous
and unnatural. Whether guilty of
the crime laid to his charge or no made
no difference in this : if innocent, she was
sorry for him ; but that he had ever been
accused of such a crime was quite sufficient
to lay an insuperable barrier between himself
and any girl in Nell's position in life ;
added to which, in this case, there would

have been a double indecency in the notion,
on account of the latter's connection with
the murdered man.

Poor Nell was deeply to be pitied, undoubtedly.
She must be let to suffer as she
listed for a time ; whilst her low-spirited
retirement from society was, under the circumstances
of the publicity of the shock she
had experienced, not only natural but perhaps
graceful ; but that would all pass.
Time, the restorer, and youth, the renewer,
would ere long heal up the wound ; and in
another year or two she would resume her
old place in county society as the belle and
the heiress, and would probably be married
to some man of good birth and circumstances,
a far better and more suitable match
than Captain De Witt.

Had she known the real thoughts and
feelings harboured in her daughter's breast

she would indeed have been horrified. Battle
only index to Nell's constancy was too
faint for her short-sighted vision to interpret
the growing calm, the more settled sweetness
on the sad face, the sympathy that led
the girl's steps to seek out, far and near, for
those in trouble, mental or bodily, specially
amongst her poorer neighbours. After a
time, however, she began to be restless ;
her mother's heart told her that Nell was
too quiet, too silent, her cheeks too pale,
and her round young figure shrinking into
too hard outlines ; and she began to suspect
that time was not doing his work satisfactorily,
and that her child's trouble remained
stationary.

Autumn was now advancing, a brilliant,
sunny, bright-leaved autumn, yet, as usual,
spreading a vague, misty sadness about
its way. It was the beginning of October,

when one day the elder woman came to
her daughter with a smile upon her lips.
She had a proposal to make. Nell was
not looking very well ; they were none
of them very brilliant or in the best of
spirits, and a change would do them good.
What did Nell say to going abroad  say
to the south of France  for a couple of
months or so ? They might even winter
abroad, if, later on, inclination urged them
to stop longer. Mr. Brereton had been
consulted, and was quite agreeable. He had
business that would take him up to London
for a week or two in a few days ; after
that he was ready to start with them at
any time they liked.

The proposal was an unfortunate one,
and Nell negatived it hastily, almost before
she had realized the meaning of the pain
it brought to her heart. Should she divide

herself so far from Barrington, put the sea
between herself and him ? And how could
she bear the sioht of foreign scenes, the
vivid blue of the soft Mediterranean  recalling,
as they would, each moment, that
last happy time, when she and Barrington
too-ether had laughed over them, conversed
beside them ?

Then Mrs. Brereton proposed another
plan. If Nell did not take to the idea
of going abroad, would she at any rate
oblige her mother by taking a run with
her to the seaside somewhere on the English
coast ? Later on, as soon as winter was
really setting in, Mr. Brereton might move
up to town for a stay of several months.
The Cedars was too dull and dreary for
any of them.

I want you to have a change, my dear,'
she remarked anxiously ; ' I think you need

it. We are too quiet here. You are growing
sad with moping in this lonely place.'

Nell could have told her mother that no
change would affect that sadness whose
roots were implanted so deeply in her
heart ; but she had no wish to talk over her
trouble. After a time, if we hold our peace,
the habit of silence grows upon us until it
becomes almost an impossibility to break
the spell. But she was touched by the love
in her mother's eyes ; and turning towards
her, kissed Mrs. Brereton on the brow.

We will go, if you like, dear mamma,'
she said.

That is right,' replied the other, cheerfully.
' The change will do us both good.
If it is only England, we need not wait for
your papa. I don't fancy he will care to
go. I think he will be relieved to find,

after all, we are not going abroad ; and we

/

can be away whilst he is up in town, and
so start at once. Shall it be Eastbourne as
usual, my clear ? '

Just as you like, mother clear.'

And so all was settled ; and Mrs. Brereton
at once went off to announce the change
of plans to her husband, and to give her
orders to the lady's-maid to begin preparations
for the journey. But the next day,
when the master of the house had left for
London, Nell came to her with a request.

Mother,' she said piety, but with a
flush on her pale face, ' let it be Weymouth
instead of Eastbourne. Do you mind ? '

Not the least bit in the world, my dear,'
replied the good-natured woman. ' We
will go anywhere you have a fancy for.
Now I come to think of it, I am rather
tired of Eastbourne. We know every stick
and stone of the place, we have been there

SO often ; Weymouth will be a pleasant
change. I am glad you proposed it. And
I've been thinking, Nell, we will take
"Molly" and Hargreaves down with us;
some long rides by the sea will freshen
you up.'

'Don't want "Molly," mother, I shall
not care to ride ; but I will take Waif
with me.'

Waif  yes, of course ; he is quite one of
the family,' said Mrs. Brereton thoughtlessly
; then she remembered herself, and
reddened as she glanced towards her
daughter.

The next two nights there was not much
sleep for Nell Ling wood. She would not
see him  he would not know that she was
near him  but she would be looking on
the same coast, the same sea on which he
looked, she would be breathing the same air

he breathed. Alas ! would it be comfort,
or an aggravation of her pain ? was it
better to be far away or close beside the
object of her daily, hourly thoughts ?

In a couple more days the journey was
taken ; and Mrs. Brereton and her daughter
and the maid arrived, one balmy, red-skies
evening, at their destination.

The next morning Nell was out with
Waif, wandering along the shore at an early
hour. All night she had been waiting,
longing for the day ; and now that it was
come, it was as soft and fair as June, and a
faint western breeze played refreshingly
upon her hot and weary eyes. Mrs. Bretton
had been too tired with her journey to
go out as yet ; so Waif and his mistress
could wander on in uninterrupted, grateful
quiet. At length they found a retired
corner; and here Nell seated herself, the

dog at her feet, whilst her gaze was bent
upon the great grey peninsula before her
with a sad, hungry eagerness that seemed
as if it would overcome distance and intervening
obstacles, and bring to sight the one
figure for which she yearned. The cruel precipitous
rock,  that on this mild autumnal
day veiled itself in a vaporous tenderness of
hue,  would it ever give up the man who
was as dead to her ? or was he to spend all
his days, his long strong years, in strangling
hope and joy and life itself upon its barren
solitude ? The slow tears rose and dimmed
her sight, the island was blurred, the sea
grew misty, and laying her face upon her
lap, Nell wept with the aching bitterness of
those who weep without hope.

CHAPTEE IV.

A TERRIBLE MEETING.

Viens, viens, dernier ami que mon pas rejouisse,
Ne crains pas de toi devant Dieu je rougisse ;
Leslie mes yeux milles, mets ton coeur pres du mien,
Et, seuls a nous aimer, aimons-nous, pauvre chien ! '

Lamartine.

More than a week had now passed since
Nell and her mother had arrived at the
seaside  half the time allotted to their
visit; for Mrs. Brereton proposed to be
home soon after her husband's return from
town, unless indeed Nell wished to stop
longer. Why should she wish to stop
longer ? Nell asked herself ; were not all
places the same to her ? She was no nearer

VOL. III. F

Barrington here, she had begun to feel the
last few days, than at the Cedars  nay,
perhaps less near, for there every turn
and every view seemed connected with his
former presence, whilst here the very knowledge
of his neighbourhood seemed to make
the separation more terrible, the intervening
distance more hopeless. Yet  if she might
but once more see him, once more x the
dear face upon her memory before she
left the neighbourhood ! If she might but
see with her own eyes whether the features
she loved were much changed by privation
and suffering ; if she might but bring
a moment's gleam of satisfaction to his
troubled heart by the sight of her own
burning love and sympathy ! How it
would help her to bear the long terrible
days of the coming winter, could she but
feel that for one moment she had lightened

his load of sorrow, had brought for one
moment a softened look into the dear blue
eyes, had given him one sweet and tender
thought to bear him company on his sad
and lonely way ! It might be that the
sioht of him  of the man she loved and
honoured in his misery and humiliation 
might make her own burden the heavier to
bear ; that the reality of that sad vision
mio;ht haunt her for Ions; with a more cruel
persistence even than did its imagination 
it mattered not ; there would be a strange
sweet antidote to that bitterness in the
satisfaction of one more interchange of love,
if but the silent interchange of a yearning
gaze.

Could it be that by doing this she
might offend or wound him whom she
longed to bless ? Could it be possible
that a sensitive pride might cause pain to

F 2

predominate at sight of her, and that he
might shrink from her loving gaze ?

Oh, no, it could not be ; he loved her
too well to shrink from her seeing him in
his convict dress. He knew her too well to
doubt for a moment that the meeting would
but add new strength to her tender loyalty,
her deep devotion. Had she been in his
place, would she have given room for a
moment to feelings of humiliation ? Ah,
no ! With her, she felt, there was no
power of feeling shame ; love had cast out
all other sentiments. She would  could
she by so doing have lifted one lightest
burden from his shoulders  have knelt down
before all his fellow-prisoners, unconscious
of their presence, and kissed the very dust
off his poor feet.

And so musing day by day, the longing
grew within her more and more strongly.

until at length the thought never left her,
and by night as well as day she could hear
the ceaseless refrain of her aching heart 
If 1 could but see him once more ! '

And one mornings, as she was walking
the sands alone with Waif, the opportunity
unexpectedly presented itself.

She was passing by the line of boats,
when an old fisherman accosted her.

Try a sail, lady,' he urged ; ' there's a
beautiful bit of a breeze ; but the sea's like
a pond. Why not go over to Portland ?
Couldn't be a fairer day.'

She stood for a moment hesitating, whilst
her colour came and went quickly.

He seemed to echo the very words that
were even then passing though her mind.

The next moment she stepped into the
boat, her resolution taken.

Now then, my beauty ! ' said the old

maD, as he laid his hand upon Waifs head
in reaching for his oars.

And at the words Nell turned her
head and ghmced doubtfully at her dog.
Dared she take him ? Would not his
excitement at the sight of De Witt
if indeed they were fortunate enough
to find him  overpower his self-control
and cause trouble ?  and why should she
bring this unnecessary pain  the pain of
separation from his master  upon the
faithful heart a second time ? Yet would
it not be acting the part of a traitor
to send the dog home, away from the
chance of a sight of that master he had
loved so well ? He might be useful too.
If she by any chance should fail to recognize
De Witt, he would not, she knew.
So she made no motion to repel Waif; and
the boat went on its way silently, save

when the old boatman volunteered some
passing, scarcely-heard remark; the oars
cutting through a still and motionless sea,
reflecting in its leaden hues the misty-grey
of a sky that had rained all night, and
was clearing itself slowly, sullenly of the
heavy clouds that yet dimmed its cheerless
face.

There are some days of which we feel
instinctively even at the time that they
will be graven upon the tablets of memory
with a pen of iron  that, if we outlive by
many years man's allotted span of life, will
yet remain with every detail clear  even
their background of trifling attendant circumstances,
of natural environment, mapped
out in indelible colours.

So it was with this long day to Nell
Lingwood, as she rowed, so silently, so
slowly, through the murky air upon the

murky sea; then landed, and shrinking
from observation, in her plain black dress
with her thick veil, climbed, with Avail
beside her, the steep road that led up from
the landing-stage. Through the village, upto
the bleak sandy plateau that lined the
summit, face to face with the great stone
building that kept in bondage him whom
she held most dear on earth.

The sight of that building turned her fora
moment sick and faint, and she paused
by the roadside to rest awhile, sitting
beneath the shelter of a stone wall.

All of a sudden she had not sat there
many minutes  Waif, who was crouched
beside her, sprang up and pricked his ears.

Coming towards them, marching two and
two, with a steady tramp-tramp like that of
soldiers, and walking from the direction of
the cliff-side towards the prison, was a long

file of men, dressed in grey suits and
attended by armed warders.

In an instant the blood rushed into Nell's
pale cheeks, and her heart beat as if to
bursting, as, with one hand grasping the
dog's collar, she flung back her veil and
gazed towards the line with all her heart
in her eyes.

A moment's pause, as the men came
nearer, each couple passing the corner and
then turning aside towards the prison.
Some of these glanced towards her, and
some did not. A visitor pausing to stare
was no such uncommon sight.

They are on their way back to the midday
meal ; and now is Nell's chance, if
ever. Is Barrington among them ?

Suddenly, with a quick, sharp cry. Waif
is gone from her side. She might as well
have caught at the whirlwind as at Waif at

that moment. With one bound he has
cleared the enclosure, and is leaping wildly
upon one of the convicts, covering his face,
his hands with frantic caresses, licking the
rough woollen suit, sobbing with a passionate
joy.

 The convict has paused, and for a moment
he holds the animal to him with an uncontrollable
impulse of affection, whilst his
eyes wander around him wonderingly.
Then a warder hurries forward, aiming a
blow at the dog  a blow to intercept which
the prisoner involuntarily stretches out a
strong hand, whilst his eyes flash with hot
anger. But before the blow can fall upon
either dog or master, a woman's arms are
twined round Waifs neck ; and so, holding
him back and kneeling at the prisoner's
feet, for one moment, only one moment 
but a moment heavy with the force and the

passion of years of ordinary feeling  De
Witt and Nell are gazing at each other
face to face.

Not a word from either of them during
that short, eternal moment  only in the
face looking upwards an undying love,
in the face looking downwards an vino



describable remorse. Then, with a gesture
from the man to the dog, a gesture of
command, of dismissal, that poor Waifs
breaking heart understands only too well,
the prisoner is hurried on, and turns the
corner. And Nell finds herself once more
leaning against the wall  alone. And still
clasping her canine friend, the girl fell, face
forwards, upon the cold damp ground.

When she returned to herself she was
lying huddled up against the stone wall,
all alone beneath the dim grey sky ; and
Waif was gently licking her hands. She

started up and looked around her. No
living thing was in sight  everywhere,
wherever her gaze turned, those same grey
rocks, grey sea, grey sky. God's sea, God's
sky  had He who created them no ears to
hear the cry of human entreaty ? And
with her arms around her faithful companion,
Nell sank down again, laying her
face against the dog's neck, her breast
shaken by the tearless sobs that seemed
to bring so little relief to the terrible
oppression of her aching heart.

CHAPTER V.

A PRISONER IS RELEASED.

As one whom his mother comforts
He lays the soul on His breast,
But He draweth the curtains closely

As it enters into rest ;
And none may see it go
Away through the sunset glow.'  B. M.

Christmas was approaching. It was a
mild, clamp Christmas m most places ; but
on the Portland cliffs fierce winds occasionally
swept the plateau, and angry waves
swirled at the base of the precipitous rocks.
Many writers have drawn forcible and
pathetic sketches of a contrasted Christmas,
as between the rich and the poor ; but has
any one ever pictured even to himself the

coming on of the Christmas season in a
convict establishment ? Surely no sadder
subject could well inspire the pen.

Barrington was now no longer with the
quarry gang ; he had been, as he was told,
fortunate in obtaining an in-door post just
as the rougher season commenced. Had
Nell come to the island a few weeks later,
she might have waited vainly for a sight
of him. His position was one of the best
in the prison  that of infirmary orderly,
usually given to men of education or former
standing.

He had been told that he was lucky to
obtain the place, and he experienced that
the duties were less laborious and the circumstances
easier than in the outdoor
work ; but for his own part he cared little
where he was. A certain callousness was
creeping over him, for which the only

antidote was the interest he took in Geoffrey
Eainsford.

Kainsford had been removed some time
ago from the quarry gang. His health had
broken down, and proved manifestly unfit
for such severe toil ; and in consideration
of a long period of faultless behaviour, he
had been transferred to a much-coveted
post, that of gardener in the grounds of the
Governor. This was light and easy work, in
every way pleasant to the ci-devant singer,
who had dreaded lest they should allot him
some in-door trade. He was almost happy
there. All day long he was out in the sweet,
fresh, breezy air, bending above the clean-scented
soil, often surrounded by merry
childish faces, bright childish voices  the
faces and the voices of the Governor's
children. He might not speak to them ;
but he often exchanged with them smiles of

reciprocal kindliness and sympathy ; and his
heart warmed with the knowledge that, one
and all, the little things regarded him asa
friend. Had it not been for the memory
of one sad young face, the thought of one
young mother weeping over the fatherless
babe at her breast, he could, blessed by his
gentle, amiable nature, have borne his lot
patiently, almost with content.

The great drawback to his new position
was the separation it entailed between
himself and De Witt. They hardly ever
met now ; and the deprivation was as great
to one as to the other. The daily contact
with a disposition so kindly, so refined as
that of Kainsford's was an effectual antidote
to the hardening process that moral and
mental solitude and an unbroken brooding
might have been likely to entail upon the
other. His heart was kept open, his

nature could not dry up whilst in company
with one who, even amid the hard, coarse
brutalities of prison life and surroundings,
yet kept intact his own natural characteristics
of tender affection and genial
sympathies.

Whilst Kainsford had been near him
there had been a sense of companionship,
of equality, of fellow-feeling ; since his departure
there had been none  the isolation
was complete and paralyzing. Amongst all
the others of his fellow-men surrounding
him, there was not one towards whom
Barrington could feel one ray of sympathy,
not one for whom he could ever entertain
a feeling of comradeship, or with whom he
would ever care to exchange a word. More
than one had been his equal in birth and
position, and some were both talented and
well-educated; but all were vicious, or

VOL. III. G

craven, or coarse-minded  not one was in
any sense a kindred spirit, nor ever could
be, unless lie were to drop to their level 
wHcli God forbid.

The two friends were fated, however, to
meet again ere long. The separation, so
soon to be a lasting one, was on this occasion
to be but short. De Witt had not
been much more than a fortnight at his new
duties, when one day a new patient was
brought into the infirmary. It was Eains-
ford. He had been prostrated by a second
violent hemorrhage ; and for an hour or
so it was believed that the attack would
prove fatal. But it was not so. The
patient revived, to linger on yet some weeks
in his bed. The smile that lit up his
colourless face when, on recovering somewhat,
his eyes fell upon the figure of his
friend, was touching to see.

God is so good to me,' lie whispered
softly, so soon as he could find an opportunity
of speaking to De Witt unheard.
What I dreaded is turned into happiness !
Now I shall have you with me to the end.'

And Barrington made no answer, for his
voice was husky, and caught in his throat.

But his work from that day became dear
to him. Wherever he moved, he felt those
large hollow eyes following him with looks
of love ; and he could not glance towards
the bed without meeting a smile sweeter
surely than any face had ever worn save
Geoffrey Eainsford's. The young man's
patience and gentleness and cheerfulness
were something wonderful to witness ; and,
even amid that band of low-toned, evil-tongued
invalids, seemed to exercise something
of an elevating influence.

Not often, but yet sometimes, the two

G 2

could exchange a few words together ; but
even when no words for hours had passed
between them, the sense of companionship
remained the same  the chord that bound
the sick man to the strong one was daily
tightened.

Each day the face of the sufferer grew
more wan and deathly, each day the cough
more hacking, each day his smile was
sweeter, his expression more placidly calm ;
and each day Barrington dreaded lest he
was looking for the last time on the
emaciated features, and in the morning
glanced anxiously towards his friend's bed,
fearing, expecting that it might be empty.

One day the earnest eyes looked up to his.
'You are innocent, dear friend,' said the
dying man, softly. ' God grant you your
delivery from this hard life  God grant
your innocence may one day be established

in the sight of all men. I was guilty,
though the Almighty knows I meant at the
time no sin ; but I deserved my penalty,
and He has given me many alleviations.
I only grieve when I think of my poor
Flore  she was so innocent, so young 
and I have brought so much sufferings into
her poor life. God forgive me, and comfort
her ! She will sorrow so over my death.
My poor Flore, how we loved each other !
Will you,' and he gazed eagerly into his
companion's face, ' will you, if you can 
I don't know if they will let you  write to
her about me  about my death  and tell
her how I loved her to the end, and how
often I thought of her and the little one,
and blessed them both ? Will you, if you
can, dear friend ? It will be so hard for
her to bear if she has no friendly word,
only the official notice.'

I will said Barrington.

For a moment lie could say no more ; but
the wasted hand met the firm strong hand
and rested within it, tightly locked.

May God provide for her ! ' continued the
sick man after a minute ; ' she will be very
poor. God grant she may find friends.'

De Witt's face flushed.

'You need not fret for that,' he said
slowly ; * I have friends whom I believe,
I feel sure, will provide for her  will treat
her as a friend, and care for her. I think
I feel sure I can promise you that.'

'Then,' said Eainsford, with a beaming
face, ' my one care upon earth has left me !
God bless you  I know I can trust your
word. And I thank Him with all my
heart for His goodness in sending me such
an one as you. De Witt,' and he pressed
the other's hand again in his weak fingers.

don't despair try still to hope. There is
a God of justice, and in His own time
He will proclaim it. Trust Him, dear
friend.'

Two days afterwards came the end 
painful, as is the last passage often in our
fell English malady, when it attacks the
young and comparatively strong. It was
agony unspeakable to De Witt to watch
the protracted sufferings of the man, who
had been the one bright spot in his now
darkened life, the one warm streak of
affection to keep alive his failing spirit 
to watch the patiently-borne, drawn-out
sufferings, and to be able to do little or
nothing; to mitigate them. But at the
last came a few minutes of peace and
release from pain, when the dying man,
though unable to speak or move, could lie
at rest, looking up with a tender smile

into the face of the friend he loved so
affectionately. The desire of his heart had
been granted him  he was not to be left
to die alone ; one who loved him stood
over him and held him in his arms. And
with the name of his young wife upon
them, the last faint gasp passed from
between the trembling lips, and Eainsford's
weary head fell back upon the bosom of his
companion.

And De Witt rose up, and with one long
last look upon the pale face, laid it slowly
down upon the coarse linen pillow, and
walked away alone  henceforth alone in all
the bitterness of a moral solitude  amongst
the many fellow-convicts who crowded
within the strong walls that shut him in
for life. And as he did so, he recalled that
it was Christmas Eve.

CHAPTER VI.

JOHN PONSONBY IN LOVE.

Wei Hammer hat cas Hers
Drin wohnen,
Die Freude und der Sclimerz.

Yacht Freude in der linen

So schlummert
Der Sclimerz still in der seine.

Freude, liable Alit !

Sprich lease,
Days niclit der Sclimerz erwacht ! '

H. Neumann.

It's all nonsense, Judith ; you must go ! '

Why must I go ? '

For various reasons. First and conclusively,
because I say so.'

But I don't admit your authority. Give
me a better reason.'

There is none so good ; but perhaps some
you may be more willing to recognize. You
are looking pale and worn-out.'

I am growing old, Marion. One cannot
keep one's youth for ever.'

Fiddlestick ! You want change.'

Oh, Marion, that is what I feel I hate
the thought of most.'

Which just proves how much you
need it. You want shaking up, and so
do I.'

Oh, no, you don't, I am sure. I never
knew you more brisk and cheerful than you
have been the last few months. The cricket
on the hearth was nothing to you ! '

'If we had both been as sad and silent
as you, my dear, Mary would have given
notice, and the house would have become a
private lunatic asylum ! '

Dear Marion, have I been so sad and

silent ? I am so sorry. It was very selfish
of me.'

My dear, you couldn't be that if you
tried. Your most prominent vice is unselfishness.'


But I can cheer up without going to
Simon's.'

I think it will be extremely unkind not
to go, when you know how nervous he
feels at entertaining General and Mrs.
Prinofle alone. All connections too  it is
your duty to go. Besides added Mrs.
Keith, after a pause, seeing indecision still
written upon her companion's face, ' / want
to go.'

Do you really, Marion ? Why didn't
you say so before ? '

My dear, anybody else would have
known it from the way I pressed the point ;
but you will persist in imagining me as

unselfish as yourself. You are a vile bad
judge of character

'Not on that point, I think, Marion.
But why do you wish to go  you who
never care for visits V

My dear, there are visits and visits. It
is not every day that one has the chance of
forming one of so select a little circle  a
Baronet, a General, and a Honourable  not
one without his distinction ! And one
shouldn't miss one's chances, as our old
cook said when she married the fustian
last year. Also I want an excuse for
buying a new dress; my Sunday silk has
grown so rusty.'

Judith paused again, and the soft colour
flushed into her cheeks.

I never can feel sure, Marion, whether
it is quite nice  you know I am not
prudish  but whether it is quite right to

go to Simon's, when  you know what I
mean ! '

When he wants to make you Sir Simon's
wife ? Oh, bother that, my dear !  leave
Simon to me, I will manage him. He has
quite dropped out of the lover into the old
friend line now, I think ; and if not, I will
take him in hand. Who knows but what
he might admire me ? It is hard upon me,
for I must confess to you, Judith, that I
chiefly wished to go for the sake of continuing
my flirtation with Mr. Ponsonby ;
but friendship has its sacred obligations,
and I don't mind turning my guns upon Sir
Simon instead, to oblige you, for a few days.'

Well, if we are to go, you really ought
to be more civil to him. It is very forgiving
of him to ask you, considering the
way you always treat him here.'

My dear, I should be of your opinion

did I not know that the compliment was
vicarious. He only asks me to oblige you.
But I shall go to spite him. And when I
get there, I mean to crush him with my
politeness.'

Whereabouts does your politeness reside,
Marion ? I have never happened to meet
with it ! '

My dear, it is so very first-rate an article
that I could not dream of bringing it out
for daily use. It is put by carefully for
grand occasions.'

A week later the two were established at
Rolston Court for their Christmas visit.
The party was not a large one, consisting
as it did merely of General and Mrs.
Pringle, and Mr. Ponsonby, besides the
host and themselves.

Mrs. Pringle was Sir Simon's sister  the
only living one  who had been in India for

many years with her husband Vvithout
coming home, and who had perhaps never
been on very intimate terms with her
brother. He was several years the elder,
as she took care to inform everybody, and
of a very different disposition.

Mrs. Pringle was a little woman rather
under forty ; rather pretty, rather delicate,
and very far from wise. The two first of
these characteristics she was apt to exaggerate,
the third to ignore. She was,
however, a satisfactory wife to the General,
who adored her, and accepted as full equivalent
the high opinion she held of his
mental capacity and general importance in
the world. He was fifteen years older than
she  a somewhat pompous elderly man,
yet withal with a genial look in his small
eyes, and a hearty comprehension of a good
joke, that minimized this social drawback.

and recommended him in the opinion of
John Ponsonby.
/ He was a good teller of stories, and could
enjoy those of Mr. Ponsonby ; and his wife
and Sir Simon both being, in their separate
ways, good listeners, and the conversational
powers of Mrs. Keith considerably above
the average, the party was an extremely
agreeable one, and at times quite brilliant.

Judith Collyer was not so talkative now
as she had used to be, but her ready smile
and piquant word were always in the right
place ; and perhaps of all the party she
would have been the one most missed, on
account of her quick appreciation and
sympathetic tact.

Sir Simon, as usual, was a perfect host ;
horses and carriages, pleasant company, and
the best of good cheer were always ready
for the guests ; and as the weather was

unusually fine and mild, many expeditions
were undertaken, even by the fanciful little
Indian lady.

Most of these were prosecuted on horseback,
by all but Sir Simon and Mrs. Keith.
Mrs. Keith was unable, on account of her
injured spine, to ride, and the host was too
courteous to permit her to be driven by a
servant, however much he might have preferred
escorting the riders ; and this consideration
so touched the lady, that she
repaid the kindness by making herself as
agreeable as she knew how to be to Sir
Simon ; by degrees persuading him to forget
his former terror of her sharp speech, and
to look upon her as a most entertaining
and delectable companion.

Ending, with Judith, was a passion ; but
it was a passion now, in the present state of
her finances, not too often indulged.

VOL. III. H

As a child, the only daughter of rich
parents, she had been accustomed to horses
and carriages of her own ; but, on her
father's death many years ago  her mother
having died previously  she found herself
left but badly off, and the large income
which had been expected to be hers
dwindled to a mere nothing by his unfortunate
speculations. She loved a good gallop
over a breezy common on these fresh, bright
winter days ; and this taste being shared
by Ponsonby, was sometimes challenged by
him to a turf race, in which the General
and his wife were left far behind.

*I hope it is not rude,' she said one day 
looking over her shoulder at the distant
figures, showing like specks upon the
horizon  with an apologetic laugh. *Let
us turn back and canter up to them.'

It isn't the least necessary ; they are

perfectly happy alone together. That is a
very good character to give a married couple
who have been united nearly twenty years,
is it not ? '

Yes, it is very amiable of them.'

What a woman's tone ! But what ? '

I said no but.'

You sounded it. Then you don't
approve of the mutual-adoration system ? '

1 don't know ; it is better than many
other systems.'

But not the best ? '

People's tastes differ.'

Why don't you answer me ? '

Judith's pretty face flushed.

I don't think it quite the highest system,
perhaps.'

Would you prefer a mutual-correction
system ? '

Mr. Ponsonby, you are not fair ; you

H 2

100 Driven BEFORE THE STORM.

conduct conversation too interrogatively. I
am not in the witness-box.'

I sit reproved, and will give my ideas
instead. The adoring system is more likely
to be successful with the majority, because
the majority of men and women are fools
whose prevailing characteristic is their
vanity. For the few who prefer self-improvement
to the tickling of their moral
palate, the other system may be the most
satisfactory. But then, they must be good-tempered
people, which conscientious persons
rarely are.'

Oh, Mr. Ponsonby, what a sweeping
clause 1 '

Of course excepting you and 1/

'Are there so few people in the world
who prefer abstract truth to pleasant moral
obliquity V

It isn't popular to hoist your standard

much above that of your fellows, nor to see
too far. There is nothing so pleasing in the
world as a convenient moral blindness and
deafness, and no one so delightful as the
person who can flatter gracefully, except
perhaps the one who can receive flattery
gracefully. And when people have, by long
practice, persuaded themselves into believing
their own flattery, then they become irresistible.*


Judith laughed.

Don't talk in that Macchiavellian way 1 '
she said ; * it is horrible to hear you. You
make me begin to sympathize with the old
woman whose son was had up for stealing,
and who remarked of your profession  " I
don't wonder they calls 'em ' Leers,' for I
think they'd say anything ! " '

Ponsonby glanced at her approvingly.

'Do you know,' he said, ' that you ought to

take a long ride every day ? Nothing does
you so much good. This is the second time you
have given me a good snubbing out riding ! '

And do you like being snubbed ? '

'Oh, I am like the table which the
cat rubbed when she had lost her mistress.
It soothes her, and it don't hurt me !
What I enjoy is the usually dormant energy
of character that comes to the fore outriding.'


You make me feel as if I ought to
apologize ! '

It is the greatest fun I have. I knew
you were not so tame as you looked at first,
Miss Colly er.'

I am very tame,' she said quietly.

You are very sad,' said John Ponsonby ;
and as he spoke he suddenly turned towards
her and fixed his piercing eyes upon her face.

Judith was taken aback. She could not

deny the charge ; and her face flushed,
whilst her eyes filled with unexpected tears.

'I didn't mean any one to find it out
she said, turning away her face to avoid
the searching gaze ; ' T didn't think I had
been  low-spirited.'

You have been in the most cheerful
of spirits. And you have gone to your
room alone to cry sometimes,' he pursued
mercilessly.

Poor Judith's face crimsoned more and
more.

Is it that you are thinking of that poor
fellow  away at Portland ? '

She turned towards him, her tears dropping
fast ; and meeting the kindly gaze,
broke down completely.

Oh, Mr. Ponsonby, if you only knew
what it was ! It seems the saddest when
one is the merriest. Sometimes, in the

middle of everything, just when things are
the brightest and conversation the gayest,
the thought comes over one of the contrast
of our luxury, our laughter, and of his
hard life, his terrible despair. It is impossible
to forget it day by day it seems to
grow a more real, cruel fact.'

It is a cruel fact,' he repeated slowly,
with a frowning brow.

It seems so heartless to be enjoying
oneself here while he is pining out there.
It is so terrible to think one can do nothing
never do anything for him ! '

There was a long pause.

Justice may still be done some day,' he
said at length slowly. ' The truth may be
made known  pray heaven it may,' he
added in a lower tone.

Then there was another long silence between
them ; whilst Judith dried her eyes,

aud they paced on slowly beneath the leafless
trees. When next she turned to speak
to him, it was in her usual bright tone, and
with a smile upon her lips. Yet was there
the consciousness of a new sympathy between
them, that was restful to a degree,
and soothing to the sadness that kept its
gentle hold upon her still. She could not
help feeling the change in his manner. He
had always been friendly, attentive to her ;
to-day his words and looks were marked
by a quiet consideration that approached
tenderness.

When the old General approached her at
the hall door, offering politely to assist her
from her horse, he glanced at her with an
approving smile. The sweet lips were still
a little tremulous with emotion, and the soft
eyes half moist, whilst a faint pink colour
played on the oval cheek.

Ending is a becoming exercise to most
ladies lie remarked gallantly, ' but to none
more than to you, Miss Judith.'

A fortnight passed on pleasantly enough
to Sir Simon's party, and then one or two
began to speak of departure. Mrs. Pringle
remembered an enofaoement for herself and
the General to a friend's house in a neighbouring
county, and Mr. Ponsonby declared
his holiday was drawing to a close. Mrs.
Keith, not to be backward in dignity of
conduct, fixed the going of herself and
Judith for the day previous to that of the
Princes, and some two or three days after
that of Ponsonby. It had been, notwithstanding
the skeleton in the cupboard to
some of the party, a very agreeable and
congenial sixtet on the whole ; and Sir
Simon could not but be gratified as a host
with the result of his little social gathering.

Yet, although-li doubtless gratified on this
point, there may have been others less entirely
satisfactory to the worthy Baronet.
But if it were so, neither by word or sign
was the fact betrayed.

And now it had come to the last day of
Ponsonby's stay. An expedition had been
planned the day before ; but when the
morning dawned, the weather was too wet
and gloomy for its accomplishment, and it
ended in nothing being done all morning
but a little desultory shooting by the
gentlemen, the ladies finding it more agreeable
to sit over the fire in-doors.

Towards three o'clock, however, the sky
cleared; and Judith, after vainly inviting
Mrs. Pringle, who had or fancied she had a
slight cold, to accompany her, started for a
short ramble by herself in the dew-laden
grounds. The sun was coming out as she

made her way to her favourite spot, a little
eminence whence a wide view of the
surrounding country could be obtained.

She was sorry to think it was the last
time, sorry to think this visit, which she
had so objected to making, was over. It
had been a very pleasant fortnight ; she
had never known Simon's house so pleasant
before. She was still standing in the midst
of the rays of the early-setting sun, when she
heard steps behind her, and turning, saw
Ponsonby. His gun was still in his hand,
and his face full of colour with running.

I gave you chase,' he said ; ' I saw you
from the avenue below. Are neither of
the others out ? '

No ; Mrs. Keith rarely walks, you know,
and Mrs. Pringle has a little sore throat.'

But you are not afraid of the damp ? '

Oh, no ; I am afraid of nothing: ! ' In

which Miss Collyer did not speak the truth ;
for at that very moment she felt, unconsciously,
a vague fear of something, she
knew not what  a changed look, an air of
nervous resolution that seemed to pervade
her companion.

There was a minute's silence, and then
she turned as if to move homewards.

Don't go yet,' said Ponsonby ; ' it is the
last time we shall be here.'

It is a pretty view, is it not ? '

I wasn't looking at the view,' said John
Ponsonby.

This was personal, so Judith dashed
hastily into another commonplace.

Do you miss the country when you get
back to town, Mr. Ponsonby ? '

I shall miss something more than the
country this time. I shall miss coif.'

It is very kind of you to say so. We

have been very good friends. I shall miss
you too.'

I don't want you to miss me in that
way,' he said.  Judith, don't you know 
can't you see that I care about you in
another way  that I am head over ears in
love with you ? '

Oh, no  I never dreamt of it ! We
have known each other so short a time.'

I have known yon a long time. I have
been in love with you ever since this time
last year.'

Last year ! I never saw you till this
spring. How could you ? '

I will tell you  some day. But didn't
you see it all this time we have spent
together ? What did you think I meant ? '

'I thought you wished to be my friend
you were so kind about dear Barrington'


Well, I didn't then ; I meant much

more ! And I mean to have it, Judith,

sooner or later, so don't turn away.'
The ghost of a smile came to her lips.
How can you have it if I don't choose

to give it you ? '

But I will make you give it me ! '

It would never do. Mr. Ponsonby, do

you know how old I am ? '

No ; and what's more, I don't care one

straw.'

I am awfully old  much older than you,
I think.'

I don't believe a word of it. But if you
were old enough to be my grandmother, I
should still want to marry you.'

You are very  downright.'

I am very determined. Why do you
fight me so ? Can't you try to like me a
little ? '

I like you very much, but I can t 
Why don't you ask somebody younger to
marry you ? I am too old for you

'You are the sweetest, loveliest woman
I ever saw, and I never mean to marry
anybody younger. How can you be so
unkind to me ? '

1 don't mean to be unkind,' she said,
faltering a little.

You slidnH repulse me ! ' he exclaimed,
approaching her with eyes of dangerous
tenderness. * Unless you can look me in the
face  now  and say steadily, '' I hate you,
John Ponsonby," I will not listen to you ! *

There was a moment's pause, whilst the
colour came and went on Judith's cheek,
and he stood silently regarding her. Then
she suddenly found herself clasped to him.

My beautiful darling, you cant say it,
you see ! ' he exclaimed.

And in a moment he was covering her
face with kisses  stifling her murmured 
I never said I cared for you ! '

Such was John Ponsonby's wooino- 
decided, like everything he did ; and if
abrupt almost to a tinge of brutality, yet
bearing the stamp of a sturdy manliness
and sincerity. Doubtless he knew what he
was about. He had, through his profession,
had some experience of the most successful
ways of managing the gentler sex, and
was not likely to lose a cause which he had
at heart for want of either determination
or audacity.

Judith Collyer was dressing for dinner,
when there came a tap at her bed-room
door, and Mrs. Keith entered.

Well,' asked the latter curtly, ' and how
did you enjoy your walk ? '

Oh, pretty well, thank you.'

VOL. III. I

Only pretty well ? Dear me ! '
Well, this damp weather isn't the
pleasantness, you know.'

Damp fiddlestick ! '

Well, it is damp, Marion ; you can't
deny it, however much you want to
quarrel I '

You didn't look damp when you came
in, nor Mr. Ponsonby either. You might
both of you have been standing in front of
Nebuchadnezzar's burning fiery furnace, you
were so red.'

What nonsense you talk, Marion ! '

What do you mean, Judith Collyer,
after remaining single all these years, by
marrying a man half your age and height ? '

Judith's face flushed crimson.

I am three years older than he is,
and he is nearly four inches taller than I
am ! '

'You haven't lost time, I must say, in
comparing ages and heights.'

Marion Keith, I detest you I Can't you
leave me in peace ? '

'Oh, now that you have owned to the
fact'

I suppose I have. I do think you
might have let me keep my little secret to
myself a few hours.'

How could you ? As if your face, when
you entered, didn't proclaim your little
secret with a deafening shout ! '

Only to you. No one else has such
lynx eyes.'

I'm not blind, thank goodness. But
now that you have confessed, I'll let you
alone.'

Thank you,' said Judith, turning away.

'Are you angry because of my home
truths?'

I 2

'Home truths are no doubt excellent
tidings, but the people who use them  '

Are disagreeable persons ? '

Undoubtedly

*Miss Collyer, it is delightful to see
you really cross ! It is a new experience.
Now I have got you down from your
pedestal of superiority, I shall never feel
inclined to be rude to you again ! '

Judith made no answer. And Mrs. Keith
moved towards the door.

'I will congratulate you another time,
my dear,' she said, a little huskily.

But at the door she turned back again,
a whimsical expression on her face.

What will poor Simon think of it ? '

Judith was silent.

'Don't you feel something of a traitor,
becoming engaged to somebody else in his
very own house, under his very own nose ? '

Oh, Marion, I do. But how can I help

strand

at the pathetic appeal, Mrs. Keith
broke out into one of her rare, soft tits
of laughter.

It is most dishonourable ! It is a good
thing we are leaving tomorrow.'

 You won t let it out, Marion ? '

Not I, my dear. But it is very mean of
you all round. Don't you know I intended
Mr. Ponsonby for myself ? '

Judith's good temper was quite restored
now, and her pretty face was dimpling with
smiles.

May I tell him, Marion ? He would
be so flattered. And I might offer him
his choice before it is too late ! '

No, don't unsettle him now. I don't
wish to come between you  ' Then Mrs.
Keith suddenly approached, and gripped

her companion in her arms. 'Judith,
Judith ! what a little fool you are ! How
quick women are to give up their liberty ! '

I haven't been quick, Marion. My only
fear is lest, having been so slow, I ought
to do it at all  for his sake

His sake ! ' retorted the widow scornfully.
' Trust him to take care of his own
interests, my dear ! I never knew a man
yet who couldn't do that, however wanting
in other ways. But I should have thought
my example would have warned you  '

I am not afraid,' said Judith, quietly.
And the smile on her face was so calm
and sweet, and the tone of her voice so
low and reverent, that Mrs. Keith felt
somehow as if she were in Church ; and
rising silently, she kissed her friend once
upon the forehead and left her.

CHAPTER Il

THE convict's WIDOW.

tender beauty of the fleeting years,

gilding glory of the sweet sad jast,

God's most effectual healing, that endears

To us our bitterest memories at last ! '

John Payne.

Nell, meanwhile, with her mother and
stepfather, was spending the winter in
London : and the effect of the change was
almost to restore Mrs. Brereton's habitual
cheerfulness. They led an extremely quiet
life for visitors to town ; still there could
not fail to be far more change and variety
about the life than that spent in their
country house under former circumstances ;
and to Mrs. Brereton a certain amount

of change and variety was almost indispensable.
Their mourning was still too deep
to admit of anything like much company, or
confide dissipation ; but concerts or lectures
were quite the proper thing, and it was impossible
to avoid one's friends when one met
them in the street, and churlish to refuse a
cup of afternoon tea.

By these simple means Mrs. Brereton
hoped to lead her daughter insensibly back
into that pleasant and social world of their
own equals which, so far, since her trouble,
Nell had seemed so bent upon eschewing ;
and she felt annoyed when she found her
plan a failure. Nell was gentleness and
submission itself in any ordinary domestic
matter ; but she resolutely refused to go
into any society so-called, and shrank even
from the smallest gathering of strangers
or acquaintances in their own rooms.

I am so stupid, mamma, now, so dull ! '
she urged pathetically, when her mother
pressed her, and accused her of obstinacy.
I am no good to you in amusing your
friends. I cannot talk in company ; 1 never
seem to have anything to say. Indeed I
have tried, but it is of no use. I am only
a wet blanket. Why do you ask me ? '

For your own sake, MelL'

I am happiest when I am alone with
you, mamma.'

And you, who used to be so fond of
fun, and talk, and gaiety, Nell ! '

Used, mother ! ' The lines of pain
deepened on the young face. ' But nothing
ever will be as it used to be, again I '

You could get over it if you tried,
Nell. I am sure I was sorry enough for
you at first. I nearly broke my heart
over you ; but after a year, I do think you

could get over it if you wanted to. If
your father can bear to see people now,
why should not you? Do you mean to
say the loss of his son was not as much to
him as your trouble? We have all had
a terrible shock ; but it is wrong and self-indulgent
to go on nursing and petting it.'

The girl made no answer. How should
she explain her feelings to one who could
never have comprehended them ? ' Get
over it in a year!' And he was still
toiling, despairing on in prison. The words
seemed to her as coarse as they were cruel ;
though, out of respect for her mother, she
tried to repel the reflection.

I wish,' continued Mrs. Brereton, fretfully,
* that we had never taken that disastrous
tour ! I wish we had never met
with that wretched man ! '

Nell turned away with a pale face. A

year before, and words such as these would
have roused lier hot anger and indignant
retort. Now she bore them silently. One
more stab was of little account when the
heart was sore and bleeding as hers. But,
as she sought the refuse of solitude, and
sat down in her own room, her face drooped
against the head of her chief friend and
comforter, Avail, and she whispered to him
some of her pain.

 They think that I can forget him in a
year  one short year ! And yet, oh, how
endless this year has been ! But I only
love you more and more every day. Barrington.
I never, never can forget you ; I will
always wait for you. Oh, my darling, my
own love, I will wait, whether it be for earth
or heaven  I will not forget you, if it befor
fifty years ! '

And then in February came the letter

from Barrington telling of Rainsford's death,
and besgino: Sir Simon to do what he could
to comfort the poor widow, and to insure
her against destitution. He had not been
able to fulfil his promise to his dead friend
before ; the regulations only permitted of
correspondence at the stated intervals. This
letter being, as before, sent on to Nell,
she begged Sir Simon as a favour to permit
her to undertake the errand. And he,
divining, by the intuition of his own feelings,
the consolation such a commission
would prove to the sorrowful girl, replied
by a swift and ready acquiescence.

It was too late for Nell to break the sad
news to the young widow, or to attempt to
soothe her first trouble by a tender womanly
sympathy, for the official notification had
already reached her two months before,
directly after the event ; but it was not

too late to bring her the longed-for comfort
of a more detailed account of her husband's
last weeks and end, and to act towards her
as a substantial benefactress in pecuniary
matters, at a moment when both mother and
babe were upon the verge of absolute want.
This was the first real joy which Nell had
known since her trouble had fallen upon her.
She was fulfilling; a wish of Barrington's,
she was doing something which would, when
he heard of it, cause him a moment's pleasure
and satisfaction. And as she put her
arms round the little gentle, girlish widow,
even more sorrowful and forsaken than herself,
and their tears flowed together, she
herself felt a wonderful consolation in the
sympathy and comradeship of grief that she
had never known before, and that seemed
to assuage for a moment the smarting bitterness
of her own wound.

And so winter passed into spring, and
spring into summer; and not until July
approached did the Breretons talk of returning;
homeward. During this time Nell
saw a good deal of Mrs. Eainsford and of
Judith Collyer, and very little of anyone
else. Week by week the friendship
cemented between her and the young
widow, and she found that her calmest,
most contented hours were spent in the
little dim London sitting-room, where the
mother sat nursing her fatherless babe, and
where together they talked over ways and
means for the support of the pair. For Mrs.
Eainsford was an independent little woman,
for all her girlish, clinging ways ; and she
refused to accept more pecuniary assistance
than was absolutely necessary, even from
so sympathetic a friend as Miss Lingwood.

But perhaps a greater comfort to her

even than monetary help was the power to
pour out the history of all the sufferings,
the joys, and the anxieties of her short
married life into compassionate ears, and
to expatiate on the goodness of heart, the
tenderness, and unselfishness of the husband
whom she had loved so dearly, and who,
misled by his love for her, had committed
the fatal false step which had been the
ruin of both their lives. Nell was so
patient in listening to her story, so full of
a pitiful interest and sisterly compassion,
that her visits came to be the bright spots
of life, the chief solace  after the love of
her child  to the poor woman.

Of Judith, Nell did not see quite so
much. West Kensington was a long way
ofii" from Ennismore Gardens ; and once,
when Nell had gone thither, she had found
Ponsonby and his fiancee together, full of

a mutual happiness : and somehow, the
sight had jarred upon her. She had returned
home, and taken herself to task for
the selfishness which in its own absorbing
sorrow grudged joy to others ; yet the
feeling remained. It appeared instinctively
to her a sort of slight upon the memory
of Barrington for the one who had most of
all seemed to love him and to participate in
her own sufferings over his cruel fate, to be
forgetting now, to be smiling and joyful,
absorbed by a new and engrossing affection.
And yet she knew that Judith was not all
joyful ; she knew in her heart that Judith
did not forget, that her faithful heart still
mourned as much as ever over De Witt,
and yearned to assist him ; and telling
herself that she was both cruel and unreasonable
in demanding that her friend
should renounce all domestic happiness for

the rest of her life as proof of the constancy

of her feelings, she strove her best to check

the new and unaccustomed constraint that

seemed inclined to rise up between herself

and Miss Collyer.

But with Judith it was impossible to be

constrained long. She was so loving, so

frank, so true-hearted, that, once alone

together, the phantom faded, and all Nell's

old affection for her would return. She

too was a friend upon whom the girl could

lean, and whose mind was matured 

not merely a clinging, loving nature, like

that of Mrs. Eainsford. Sometimes Judith

would take the other gently to task for the

long intervals that elapsed between her

visits. Miss Collyer never came to the house

in Ennismore Gardens ; she had the feeling

that she could scarcely look with equanimity

upon Mr. Brereton, nor could she have
VOL. III. K

taken his hand if by any chance he had
offered it to her.

But though thoroughly happy in the
fact of her engagement, her old friendship
for Nell was as strong as ever, and she
quickly divined the feelings that stirred the
girl's heart.

Dearest,' she said one day, reproachfully,
as she put her arm round Nell's waist, ' if
I could, I would almost wish that I had
never seen him,' (the ' him ' of course referring
to Ponsonby,) * if he is to come
between you and me. It grieves me to
lose your confidence, but still more to
think it may cause you yourself to suffer
deprivation. Why can you not talk to meas
freely as you used to do ? '

I love you and trust you as much as
ever, Judith, indeed I do  '

Why should he come between us, dear

Nell ? You know how much he cares for
the one we are always thinking about  how
hard he has worked for him. He would
do anything now, give up almost anything,
I think, if he could but restore Barrington
to freedom and happiness. Don't dislike
him, Nell ! '

I know, I know, Judith, I don't dislike
him. I am grateful to him. If I wanted
anything  any advice or help  I would goto
him before any one else.*

'ind he would help you, dear, to the
uttermost of his power. There is nothing
he would work for as he would for that ;
and not because he loves me only, but
because of truth and justice' sake, and
because he cared so much for Barrington.'

Indeed, Judith, I look upon him as a
friend. I know how good and generous
he is.'

K 2

But you don't like meeting him, dear !
You shrink from him  and, I sometimes
think, almost from me.'

*0h, Judith, can't you understand? It
must seem so mean, and churlish, and
ungenerous to you ! Indeed I am glad you
are happy. It is horrid of me to wound
your feelings. But, somehow now, I seem
so far apart from any one who is like that.
I am. not envious of you, dear  I don't
grudge it you  '

My poor darling ! ' And Judith's arms
were round her neck. ' Of course ; it is
very natural. I ought to have understood
it before. I dare say I should feel the
same. Do you know, sometimes, as it is,
Nell, I experience a sort of spasm of repulsion
against myself for feeling happy, and
forgetting him  poor darling  for an hour
or two. If it were anybody that did not

care for him I should feel it more. But
John  is so kind and sympathetic ; he
never grows weary of my talking of it, and
doesn't complain of my looking sad sometimes.
That is one reason, Nell, which
makes me care for him ; he is so patient
and so gentle with me  many men would
be angry with one for not always thinking
of them; but he is so unselfish, he spoils
me.'

No one could help spoiling you, Judith ;
you are so sweet and lovable.'

 And now,' she continued, after a pause,
taking no notice of Nell's remark, ' now
there will be another useful little reminder
that there can be no happiness in this world
without some drawback to cloud it.'

Don't let me be your cloud, dear Judith.'

It is not you, dear child ; it is one's
own greediness in wanting the best of

everything ; in expecting to keep all the
old satisfactions and friendships, when one
has the new.'

Nell laid her cheek against her friend's
hand.

I thought,' she said softly, ' that trouble
always made it easier to be unselfish ; but
I find there are different ways of being
selfish. When one is happy one finds it
hard to sympathize with people in sorrow ;
but when one is sad, it is almost more
difficult to feel sympathy for those who are
happy. Oh, Judith, it is dreadful to think
that because one is sorrowful oneself, one
does not want any one else to be joyful.
That is hateful ! One should wish it all
the more, because one knows how terrible
trouble is. You must help me not to grow
into a monster like this ! '

Judith kissed her silently.

I don't think there is any fear of your
becoming a monster of selfishness, my Nell.
You think a great deal of others, I should
say.'

Only of those in trouble, Judith. I
thought at first that I was becoming very
good and charitable, because I have been so
much amongst the poor ; but I see now it
was only a sort of self-indulgence, because
their trouble was congenial to me.'

It was a very good form of self-indulgence,
Nell.'

Yes ; and I don't want to give it up.
But I am afraid it would be nobler to try
to do as mamma wishes, to try and mix
amongst those who are bright and gay our
own set. I seem to have nothing* to do
with them now, Judith. Is it my duty, do
you think? Don't say so, unless you are
sure it is ! '

My darling, I cannot see that it is your
duty ; at any rate for some time to come.
They must give sou time to heal your
wound in some degree first. It would be
cruel to ask you to do violence to your
natural feelings as yet

I don't think time will ever do much,
Judith. Are there not some troubles that
people never get over ? Am I a coward, do
you think ? Could I get over it  I mean,
so as to look as if I had got over it  if I
tried more ? '

Nell, you are no coward ; you have been
brave and patient. God help you, poor
child !

He has helped me, Judith, or I could
not have lived through it. Do you think
He has helped Barrington too ? '

My darling, I trust so. Nell,' she continued
after a moment, 'how thin you

are growing ! You are quite shrunk up,
child

It won't hurt me, Judith. I suppose
people who go through a good deal must
grow thinner. It doesn't signify

Yes, it does ; I don't like it.'

'I am not ill, and that is all that
matters

I don't like it, Nell ; you are looking
very white

Am I losing my prettiness, Judith ? I
am afraid I am. I say I am afraid, because,
you know, if ever we did meet again, 
I can't help fancying it may be possible
some day, perhaps years and years hence, 
I shouldn't like him to think me grown old
and ugly.'

Don't fancy that, dear Nell ; don't dwell
on such a thought. It isn't wise.'

But why, Judith, when it is my only

hope  the only thing sometimes I feel I
live for ? Such things do happen  men do
get let off  after a long, long time sometimes
 when they have never gone against
the regulations, or done anything wrong in
prison. And why not him ? '

If it were so, which God grant  still,
dear Nell, it might be wiser, it might be
happier for both of you '

She paused.

A deep flush spread over Nell's pale face,
and she rose up suddenly.

'Judith!  if we never met? Was that
what you were going to say ? Why,
Judith, if it were twenty, thirty years hence,
if we were both grown grey and old, do you
think I should have forgotten ? Do you
think I would not go to him anywhere ?
Or do you think he would have forgotten
me ?'

No, clearest. But he might feel that he
would never consent to such a sacrifice for
you.'

Sacrifice ! Why, Judith, are you
dreaming ? Don't you know that the very
thought of it nearly drives me mad with
joy ? He should never escape me, so long
as I knew he loved me  I would follow him
all over the world.'

And suppose he refused to marry you 
suppose he was too generous to accept your
generosity ? '

Then,' said Nell passionately, ' I would
die at his feet ! It would kill me.'

And Judith this time did not break the
silence that ensued. What was the good of
discussing a painful contingency little likely
ever to come to pass ?

CHAPTER YIIL

SIR SIMON GIVES A PRESENT TO THE BRIDE.

Ainsi, je ne lis plus. Moi, lire ! Eli ! quel poem
Egalerait jamais la voix de ce qii'on aime 1 '

Lamartine.

At the beginning of July Nell accompanied
her mother and stepfather home to
the Cedars ; and about a month later Judith
Collyer became Mrs. John Ponsonby.

The wedding, by desire of the bride, was
a very quiet one, rather to the dissatisfaction
of Mrs. Pringle, from whose house in
Surrey it took place, and who would have
preferred to make a much greater fuss and
noise about the affair.

Almost the only guests invited were Mrs.

Keith, Sir Simon De Witt, and Lord
Fenton, the eldest brother of the bridegroom,
whose acquaintance Judith had
made some weeks before, when, in company
with Mrs. Keith, she had paid a formal
visit of introduction to Fillmore Towers,
the seat of the old Earl, Ponsonby's father.
Lord Pressure was a widower, and a
kindly, courteous old man, whom Judith's
grace and sweetness of manner had speedily
subjugated. He had a large family of sons
and daughters, all of them married except
John, the youngest ; and was in no ways
affected in his opinion of his new daughter-in-law
by the fact of her small dowry.
His sons had mostly married without much
consulting him  independence of disposition
seemed to be a characteristic of the
family; and although several of them had
married younger, richer, or more aristocratic

brides, yet none lead brought him a daughter
more to his taste than this lovely, soft-eyed
woman, with her piquant expression and
her refined manners.

Judith's great trouble was in leaving Mrs.
Keith.

John Ponsonby was so absurdly in love,
that for the first time in his life his
common-sense showed signs of deserting
him, and he actually proposed  when he
became aware of his frances anxiety upon
the subject  offering the widow a home in
their own establishment, until such time as
any better arrangement should turn up.

Fortunately, however, for him, the women
with whom he had to do were better
advised ; and Mrs. Keith, the moment the
plan was mooted, negatived it too decisively
to leave room for its mention a second time.
She pooh-poohed the idea of being lost or

lonely, and would not discuss the question
which weighed upon her friend's mind with
even her usual small stock of patience.

I shall do very well,' she remarked
briefly.  Mind your own affairs, Judith 
you have plenty of them, I should think,
to satisfy your mind  and let me alone.'

But I can't let you alone, Marion. It
is so horrid leaving you in this way.'

Do you think I can't live without you,
you silly girl ? '

*Have you no one  no relation who
would join you in your house-keeping like
I have done ? '

I hate all my relations,' responded Mrs.
Keith promptly. ' At least, there is one
little niece I don't so much object to ; but I
dare say she wouldn't come.'

Promise me to write and ask her. You
are too delicate to live alone.'

In that case, it would be a good riddance
if I were to die. However, if you are going
to fuss yourself into a fever, I suppose I
must write. But we should have to move
into lodgings, I expect

why?'

Why ? Because this palatial mansion
of eight rooms would be a great deal too
expensive for us to keep up.'

It is so cheap, Marion ! '

I know it, my dear ; and so is the
General." They only cost threepence per
annum between them ; but then Mabel and
I should only have twopence halfpenny a
year to live upon ! '

The night before his cousin's marriage,
Sir Simon managed to secure the bride-elect
to himself for a short interview.

Judith,' he said in his slow tones,  I
have been thinking a good deal about what

present I could give you on your wedding
day that would please you best.'

Why, dear Simon, you have given me
one already  that lovely diamond necklace.
You surely don't want to give me anything
more ? '

That was my mother's, Judith, and cost
me nothing. I always intended it for you,
and had left it you in my will. But I
wished to give you something else, and I
hope you will think I have chosen right.
Perhaps you will say it is more of a present
to Mrs. Keith than to yourself.'

To Mrs. Keith ? ' she asked, wondering.

 I know how fond you are of Mrs. Keith,
and I have noticed how much anxiety you
have felt about leaving her. I thought
perhaps  ' here Sir Simon, who was the
most absurdly delicate minded man that
over breathed, paused and reddened  ' that

VOL. III. L

perhaps pecuniary considerations might
have something to do with it

It had,' said Judith frankly.

I ascertained continued Sir Simon,
'that Mrs. Keith still desired to continue on
in your London home with a young relative,
who would join her in your stead ; but
that the rent of the house might prove
an obstacle. So,' and he placed a bundle
of legal-looking papers in his companion's
lap, ' I made inquiries about the place,
and finding it was for sale, instructed
my London lawyers to buy it for me.
Those are the title-deeds of possession.
I thought  so unselfish as you are  that
you might prefer it to any more personal
gift. But it is nothing to thank me
for,' he added hastily, seeing the expression
of her face ; ' the price was a mere
nothing  absurdly inexpensive. I had no

idea houses in town were to be had such
bargains.'

Simon, how generous you are ! Oh, it
is so good of you ! I couldn't have liked
anything else one quarter so well ! '

Really, Judith ? ' asked her old friend,
his face kindling with quiet satisfaction at
the sight of her pleasure.

Really and truly. You have taken
away my only anxiety. You are the best
and kindest old Simon that ever lived !
But it is too much  I don't know whether
I ought to accept it.' 

'You can't help that,' said the Baronet,
with a quiet smile. ' The deeds are made
out to you, and the property bought in
your name.'

I did so hate the idea of Mrs. Keith
going into cheap lodgings ! Now she will
be quite happy in her own little house.

L 2

But you give me too much, Simon ; you
have always spoilt me.'

No one could spoil you he said, looking
down tenderly upon her beaming face.

Thank you a thousand times, dear
Simon. You have made me so happy.'

I am very glad,' was all he said, as he
stood for a moment holding in his the hand
she had stretched out to him.

God bless you, Judith ! ' he said suddenly
; and for a moment he seemed to
lose command of his voice.

As he spoke he bent down, and she,
with a willing smile, raised her face to meet
the one kiss he pressed upon it  the only
kiss he had ever given to the woman he had
loved since her childhood.

The next day Sir Simon fulfilled his
important duty of giving the bride away,
and in so doing, managed to commit as

many mistakes as it was possible for a man
to do. He was staring about him when the
officiating clergyman demanded, * And who
giveth this woman to be married to this
man ? ' and apparently did not hear the
words ; and when restored to consciousness
of the situation by a dig in the elbow from
General Pringle, who stood beside him,
moved confusedly towards that officer's wife.
He was a great deal more embarrassed,
both in church and at the breakfast, than
the bridegroom himself, who accosted him
in the very porch with the remark,

Confound the man ! do you think I
wanted to marry Mrs. Pringle ? If I were
the General, I'd call you out ! '

But his confusion culminated when his
sister, at the breakfast table, committed
the fatal mistake of asking him to say a few
words of congratulation  'not exactly a

speech, you know, Simon  ' to the newly-united
couple.

He floundered about in a perfect quagmire
of relationships and family events, mixing
up everything into a hopeless chaos, losing
both his nominatives and himself twenty
times, until both John Ponsonby and Mrs.
Keith thought it time to put an end to the
performance.

Hear, hear ! ' exclaimed the former at
the top of his voice, rapping on the table
with all his force ; ' don't give us any more
heads. Sir Simon. I've already 
separate counts on which to return
thanks.'

Whilst Mrs. Keith remarked, sotto voce,

He has married everybody round the
table at least three times ; and bigamy, however
pleasant, is a felony now, I believe ! '

But at last it all came to an end, and

Judith could escape to her room to change
her dress, yearning for a little quiet, a little
release from that noise and publicity, and
bustle, and repartee, which is the portion
and the trial of every bride.

A few kindly good-bye kisses, many warm
good wishes ; and then into the carriage
with John, to drive the five miles to the
country station.

How peaceful it seemed then ! And, as
the green fields and over-arching trees went
slowly by, she turned her face towards his,
to see all the keen sarcastic humour that
had flooded it but a few minutes aQ;o
changed now into a wondrous tenderness
and love, and to hear the clear peremptory
voice softened to that tone of gentle reverence
which must greet the ears of every
woman really loved and honoured by her
bridegroom.

CHAPTER IX.

JUDGMENT FALLS UPON THE GUILTY.

Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind ;
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.'

Shakespeare.

'Well, sir, heave been wishing it this
long time. He's been discontented-like at
home. And when Jim's once got a thing
in his head, you might as well try to move
that mountain yonder. Seems as if young
people was always looking out for change and
excitement now-a-days ; and he fancies ashe
can better himself in them foreign parts.'

He could better himself here. I should
raise his wages. I don't see how he can
want a more comfortable place.'

'Nor I, sir. I'm sure I'd a deal sooner
see him staying on here, where I've worked
all my life, than rushing off to outlandish
parts which one knows nothing of. I've
argued with him till my tongue aches.
But what's good enough for the parents
ain't good enough for the children nowadays.
And he always had a restless, discontented
temper, had Jim. I don't so
much fret about his going, sir, for he'd
better be happy away than glum at home ;
but it does vex me above a bit his wanting
his sister to go out with him, and she quite
content in a good situation at Tentbury.'
Why don't you forbid her going ? '
Well, you see, sir, she was always a bit
spoilt, my maid Lucy  being motherless
from a child, and so forth ; and I don't
know how to begin crossing her now if she's
set her heart upon it.'

But it's monstrous for both your children
to leave you at your time of life.'

It is, sir ; I call it cruel work. It's
been lonely enough all this year with Jim
away and Lucy in service. And now I
may never see them again. But you rear
up children, and then they defies you ! '

When does Jim want to go ? '

At the end of the month, sir, if you
can spare him. He's heard of a vessel
going to New York that will suit him then.
And my girl's coming to see me first.'

Mrs. Brereton will speak to her about
the wrong course she is taking. Perhaps
she may restore her to a sense of her duty.'

'Thank you, sir. I'm sure I hope she
may persuade her to give it up. She don't
seem so set upon it, to my thinking, as
Jim ; but they was always very fond of one
another, those two, being the only ones ;

and she tliiuks a deal more of Jim's bidding
than of mine.'

The foregoing conversation was held
between old Barrett and his employer
towards the end of August.

A month later James Barrett, who
adhered to his resolution with the sullen
obstinacy which was a part of his character,
had received his discharge ; and, with his
wages, and a fair sum  accumulated during
the past year or two in the Savings Bank 
bestowed safely in his pocket, was making
his way to Liverpool by the morning train 
He was alone, and none the more cheerful
for that. At the last moment the persuasions
of every one had prevailed both
with him and with his sister ; and Lucy
had been induced to give up the idea of
accompanying him. Truth to tell, Lucy
was not so difficult to persuade, since it was

chiefly the desire of her brother which had
weighed with her ; and, so soon as he gave
his reluctant consent to her remaining:
behind, she acquiesced willingly enough in
all the arguments of her friends.

But Jim was sore at heart in having to
go alone. He was a morose and silent
young man, who had all his life long petted
and loved but one person, and that was the
pretty, delicate-looking little sister nine
years younger than himself. He would
never have given way had it not been for
Miss Lingwood's persuasions. Touched by
the sorrow and prospective loneliness of the
old father, she had sought him out a few
days ago.

Jim,' she had said earnestly, ' do not bea
cruel son. AVould you leave the poor old
man to die alone ? Surely you cannot do
such a thing as that ! Are you so hard of

heart, Jim ? Oh, have pity on him ! He
has always been a good father to you.'

The young man had paused, his expression
troubled, and making no answer.

Jim,' she went on more softly, ' we all
ask it of you. You know Lucy will do as
you tell her. You will not refuse ? You are
young and strong ; you don't know what
it is to be lonely and old and sad at heart !
You can marry out there if you like. Won't
you give up your own wish just this once ? '

There had been another momentary
silence, and then the young man had taken
up his cap and rushed out of the house
without a word. He could Dot look up and
face those sad eyes fixed upon him so
gently, so earnestly.

But the same evening Lucy came up to
tell Miss Lingwood that the idea of her
emigrating with her brother was given up,

and that Jim lead promised his father he
would go out alone.

Yet now, as he travelled westwards,
watching; through the little third-class
window the passing monotony of green
hedges, of greener pastures, and of trees
beginning already to turn their leaves to a
ruddier hue, he repeated her words to himself
with bitterness.

Iot knows what it was to be lonely and
sad at heart ? Who could know better ?
How often had he longed, with an aching
desire, that only just fell short of fulfilment,
to put an end to an existence so miserable,
so lonely  to quench in self-destruction the
dark despondency which weighed upon him
night and day ?

With never a friend in the world, with,
that terrible silence weighing like lead upon
his bosom, that terrible secret for ever

hanging round his footsteps like a heavy
chain, what pleasure was there in life, what
satisfaction is any earthly thing ? Yet now
at last, perhaps, he was going to know what
was meant by peace and a quiet mind  now
at last perhaps, in a new and far-away
country, he might learn to shake off the
restless trouble which had so haunted him
in the old one.

On reaching Liverpool he got out, and
finding his way to the docks, made his
inquiries, and took his berth in the vessel
which was to sail tomorrow. There was no
more to be done ; his package of clothes was
all ready, he need not embark till midnight,
and he had nothing better to do
than to stroll aimlessly about in the endeavour
to while away the intervening hours.

It was now about five o'clock, and a
slight fog was beginning to descend upon

the crowded quay. The noise and clatter
of the innumerable vehicles, most of them
heavy carts or drays, served both to confuse
and to amuse him. A large town such as
Liverpool was sure to make an impression
upon the country-bred young gamekeeper,
who had never seen any town bigger than
Tentbury ; and he stood for long simply
watching the waggons pass, and then
strolled along the pavement slowly, deafened
and distracted by the strange, unaccustomed
life into whose vortex he had suddenly
plunged, yet pleased and interested thereby.
Suddenly, however, he paused and stood
still. A large placard, posted up against the
wall, had caught his eye. Some of the words
were in letters an inch long  'ESCAPED
CONVICT ' ' Five Pounds Reward.' He
remained staring at it with a strange
fascination. An escaped convict  fair hair

and complexion  five feet eleven in height.
Why did the description bring all the blood
in his body to his face, and set him
trembling  strong man though he were ?
Fool that he was, to be sure ! Why should
the perspiration stand upon his forehead,
and what was the use of reading and re-reading
the placard ? In what did it affect
him or his ? And then a horrible picture,
like a nightmare, rose up before his mind's
eye, and he shuddered. It was the vision
of a man  an innocent man, wronged and
desperate  suddenly appearing before him
on the deserted deck of a moonlit vessel,
and saying to him, ' Now at last for a
settlement  now at last for justice  or you
die ! ' And then perhaps a silent death-struggle,
a foot missed, a blow aimed by
the strong arm of an adversary, and a
plunge beneath the cold black waters  -

VOL. III. M

waters leading to judgment and to a God of
Justice ! It was but a nightmare dream,
as impossible as horrible. Was he to be
cowed by such a girl's fancy as this ?

Now then, mate ! ' said a passing sailor
loudly, as he elbowed his way past the
young man, * are you a-going to stand
there all night ? You don't want all the
pavement to yourself, do you, though you
are such a well-growed young land-swab ? '

He's taken root  ain't yer ? ' asked a
flaunting girl beside him.

Barrett looked up vaguely, seeming
scarcely to hear their remarks ; and his
expression roused a laugh on the faces of
several bystanders.

'spears,' remarked another young man,
as if he'd seen a ghost. What was lie like,
mate ? '

Maybe,' suggested a girl maliciously,

that's one of his friends as is advertised to
be run away ! '

His brother maybe  or perhaps himself!'
added the man, seeing the joke
relished.

Jim gazed at them for a moment with
a startled look ; then, amid the general
laughter, moved hastily away, turning to
cross over the road.

The loud laughs were still ringing in his
ears, and the strange horrible vision confusing
his brain, and he hurried on through
the thick fog without thinking of where he
was going.

Suddenly there was a shout. What was it
that hit him in the side ? He fell down 
there was a heavy crash, a far-off sound of
something grinding, a singing in his ears 
then a blackness of darkness, and he knew
no more.

M 2

CHAPTER X.

THE murderer's CONFESSION.

For, in finite as boundless space
The thought that Conscience must embrace,
"Which in itself must comprehend,
"Woe without name, or hope, or end,'  Byron.

Nell Lingwood was sitting in lier little
boudoir up-stairs reading, or trying to read,
for it was a strangely difficult process to lier
now to fix lier thoughts for many moments
together on the thoughts of any writer,
however interesting,  when the door opened,
and a servant entering, put a telegram into
her hands.

She opened it listlessly ; but the next
moment sprang to her feet. Her cheeks

were crimson, her eyes shone with an unnatural
brilliance, her hands trembled so
that she could scarcely hold the paper, and
a mist swam before her eyes. Was it true
really true  at last ! For an instant she
covered her face with her hands, and caught
her breath with difficulty.

It must be true  the Almighty would not
permit so cruel a deception ! And down
upon her knees she fell. There was no
actual prayer upon her lips, no consecutive
words of thanksgiving ; but her whole heart
seemed to rise up and call aloud in one
great cry of joy and gratitude.

And what were the words pencilled upon
the official paper ? They were but few.

A man of the name of Barrett has made
confession of the murder of Eobert Brereton.
He is dying, and desirous, if possible, to see
one of the family.'

The telegram was dated, not much more
than an hour ago, from a Liverpool Hospital.

A few hours later Nell was seated  Mr.
Brereton opposite her  in the express going
northwards. How those hours had passed
she scarcely knew to her memory it was
all confusion, chaos ; everything presented
a blank save the one idea that excluded all
others  the murderer was found, and Barrington
was free !

She had a vague remembrance that her
mother had sharply combated her intention
of journeying to Liverpool, and she knew
that the arguments had fallen upon deaf
and unconscious ears, and that she had
been prepared, if need were, to go alone,
and alone to walk through the darkness of
night to the little railway station sooner
than give up her purpose ; that at the last
moment she had been startled into consciousness

by the appearance of Mr. Brereton
in the hall, dressed for the journey, and that
he had turned the current of her mother's
expostulations by announcing, ' I will go
with her

His hands were trembling and his voice
broken, but it was in vain for his wife to
argue with him  to try to represent to him
how unfit were his nerves for so terrible an
interview ; he merely repeated doggedly,
I shall go

And now they were upon their way  he
to a re-opening of the one deep wound of
a shallow, selfish existence ; she to receive
the verification of a fact too consoling for
words to express, to the uplifting of a load
that had well-nigh crushed out her life.
And as she gazed in silence across the
railway carriage, feeling her own heart
bursting with joy and excitement, and saw

the twitching lips of her companion, and
the ashy features upon which fell the fitful
gleam of the gas lamp, her heart for the
first time filled with a deep and womanly
compassion for the father about to be
brought face to face with the murderer of
Diis only son ; and for the first time she felt
that she forgave him, fully and freely, the
injury he had done to Barrington.

The terminus was reached at six o'clock ;
and a couple of hours later the sender of
the telegram  the chaplain of the hospital,
to whom reply had been sent  presented
himself at the hotel. The introductory
words were brief, and Mr. Carter at once
placed in Mr. Brereton's hands a paper.

That is the confession,' he said. ' I was
afraid last night the man might not live
many hours  I forget if I told you that he
was run over, and received internal injuries

of a fatal character  so Lost no time, when
I found the nature of his communication,
in sending for a magistrate, before whom it
was taken down. It is quite complete and
legal But he will never live to stand
before a human judge for his crime ; before
many hours are over he will have given up
his account to God.'

Mr. Brereton cleared his throat and tried
to speak, but his voice failed him. He sat
down and attempted to open the paper,
but his trembling fingers refused to grasp it.

The clergyman cast a glance of compassion
towards him.

The details will be very terrible for you
and your daughter to hear, sir,' he said
gently. ' Shall I tell you the main facts ?
and will you leave the reading of the
confession to another time, when you are
less shaken than now ? '

'No,' at last said the other, with white
lips ; ' read it now.'

'How long is it since  you lost your
brother ? ' inquired Mr. Carter in a low tone
aside to Nell.

Rather more than a year and a half,' she
said, with a groan, to think of those terrible
twenty months during which the murderer
had successfully nursed his awful secret in
his breast.

' I trust,' repeated the chaplain, hesitating,
that it won't be too much for you both.'

But Nell made him a hasty sign to begin
she felt she could bear no longer delay ;
and he commenced reading : 

I, James Barrett, of Cots wold Moors,

shire, now lying, as I believe, upon

my death-bed, swear solemnly, as before
God, to these facts. That it was I who
murdered Eobert Brereton, of the Cedars,

shire, and that Captain Barrington De

AVitt, convicted last February year of the
crime and now in prison, is innocent of
any complicity with or knowledge of the
deed. And I swear, also, to the truth of
the following facts, as I hope to find mercy
before God at the Last Day.

That on the evening of the twenty-eighth
of December, the day of the murder, I met
with the said Eobert Brereton unexpectedly,
having no premeditated intent whatever to
hurt or injure him in any way. I was
working at a place called Wolverhampton,
some nine or ten miles off, also the property
of my master, Mr. Brereton, in
whose employ I had been many years as
gamekeeper ; and this evening  Saturday
night  having found opportunity to come
over unexpectedly, and feeling a desire to
see how my sister, whom I had not met

for some three weeks, was going on, I
left home without telling any one, and
walked across the country in the dark
towards my father's house. I was already
close by the cottage, which is situated in
the wood near the Cedars, when I heard
the sound of angry voices. At the same
moment my sister Lucy, it then being a
little after ten at night, ran into my arms,
.terrified and crying. When I got her to
tell me the truth, she confessed that the
young master had frightened her, that he
had tempted her away from the cottage
door, and was proceeding to detain her by
force, when some one  Captain De Witt
suddenly appeared upon the spot.

It wasn't the first time Mr. Robert had
played this game. My sister was a good
girl, but vain like other girls, and she didn't
always discourage him as she ought. But

I knew she meant no harm, and that she'd
never be likely to come to it, so long as
he'd let her alone. She was my only sister,
and I'd always been fond of her. There
wasn't none of our family as was ever light
of ways, and I didn't mean Lucy should
be the first. I made up my mind to have
an end to it once for all. Mr. Robert
hadn't ever been over partial to me, nor
me to him ; he didn't care for my looking
so strict after Lucy ; and I was angry
enough with him for his philandering after
her. But, before God, as I went after
him that night, I never thought to murder
him. There's never been a moment, night
or day since, that I wouldn't have changed
places if I could  that I wouldn't rather
that he had struck me down than I him.
When I got a few yards on I saw a stick
lying in the pathway, and I took it up, and-went

on with it in my hand. A little
further on I overtook him. * Just stop a
moment, sir," I said. I was so furious that
I didn't much know what I said or did.
*when are you going to let alone my
sister ? " *' You and your sister may goto
the devil," says he. " That's where you
want to send her," said I, " I know ; but
first you'll have to reckon up with me."
With that he used words  I can't get my
tongue to say them now, gentlemen, but
God above knows what they were to hear
against my sister, her that was pure as a
young lamb, and never would have heard
a word of evil if it hadn't been for what
came from his own lips.

I was like one mad, and I sprang at him.
Fight it out," said I, " like a man ; if you
are a man, and not a devil ! " He raised his
foot against me, with more words of the

same sort ; and then I aimed at him with
the stick I held, with all my might. I
scarcely saw the blow descend, but I saw
him fall like a log, and in a moment my
fury was sobered. I bent over him, and
shook him, and called to him ; and then I
felt his pulse and his heart, and I went
cold all over, praying God that I hadn't
killed him. But he never breathed nor
moved after one short gasp ; and his heart
had quite stopped. I wouldn't believe at
first he was dead ; but when I was sure of
it, the sweat come out all over me, and I
said to myself as I caught sight of the pond
lying near by, '' I can't restore him to life,
or I would. I didn't mean to murder him.
Why should I confess to it and be hanged,
when I didn't mean it ? Nobody will bethe
worse for my hiding it up ; and I shall
be the better." So I felt once more for

his heart, to make sure that he was dead 
before God I did  and then being quite
certain, I pulled his body over the grass
and pushed it into the pond.

Then I ran back to Lucy, and told her
that if ever she let out about my coming
over that night I might swing for it ; and
after that at once made my way on foot the
ten or eleven miles as quick as I could, back
to my own cottage, where I got the middle
of the night ; and father nor no one else
ever knew I hadn't been at home that night.
And when the police came to look me up
the next day, it was all the same as usual,
and I was at my work and about at the
usual hour.

 But I've never known a day or night of
peace since. It wasn't only that the gallows
seemed always to be hanging, so to say, over
my head : it was just as much to think that

an innocent man was suffering punishment
for what I'd clone. I was too big a coward
to go and give myself up ; I felt sure they'd
hang me.

When I heard as they'd convicted
Captain De Witt, and that he was sentenced
to death, I did say to myself that
I'd go, that I wouldn't let a man die
for me. But then I heard they were
getting up a petition to save his life, and
to alter the sentence, and I said to myself
that they would never hang a gentlemanlike
that, and one who had so many friends
up in the world. And when he got the
commutation I held back again ; I said
to myself it was better to be a convict
for life Lke him, than to swing upon the
gallows, as they'd be sure to make me do.
But I wasn't ever happy for a day. And
I thought to get away from where it all

VOL. III. N

happened, and to go to foreign parts, and
maybe forget it if I could ; and now the
judgment's fallen upon me at last. I've
been a coward, and murdered the living
man more than I did the dead one ; for
the first I didn't mean to kill, but the
second I did of a set purpose. And this
is my true and full confession ; and as I
have spoken the truth, so may God show
mercy upon my soul when I die.'

Mr. Carter finished the document without
interruption. When he looked up Mr.
Brereton sat motionless, his face buried
in his hands ; the girl was sitting upright,
with clasped fingers and burning cheeks.
There was a short silence as he folded
it up ; then he turned and spoke a few
words of kindly and religious sympathy,
to which the others listened in silence.

It was Nell who first spoke.

How long has he to live ? ' she asked,
referring; to Barrett.

Not many hours, I should say. If your
father intends to see him, the time is short.
But,' and he looked again towards the bent
and shaking figure in the chair, * he is not
fit, I fear.'

No,' she said, ' he had better not go ;
it will be too much for him. Papa,' she
said gently, as she bent over him, and laid
her hand upon his shoulder,  it was the
first time he had heard her call him so
since De Witt's arrest,  ' papa, do not try
to go to the hospital. Let me go. I am
much stronger for it than you. Mr. Carter
will take me. I think one of us ought
to go. He is dying.'

He lifted up a haggard face.  Yes, go ;
I cannot. I could not bear to meet him.'

She bent lower still.

N 2

Papa, he is dying, he is penitent, he did
not mean to do it ; may I tell him that you
will try to forgive him ? '

He Groaned aloud.

He murdered my boy, my poor boy !
But he is dying. God help me ! Yes ; tell
him I forgive him. If God can forgive him,
I must ! '

Nell stooped again, and laid her hot
lips to his forehead. She had not kissed
him for twenty months ; and never before
had she given him a kiss like this  tender,
pitiful, and earnest. Then she turned,
and saying simply, ' I am ready,' followed
the clergyman out of the room. Twenty
minutes later she was standing with Mr.
Carter in the hospital ward, by the bedside
of James Barrett. The dying man's face
was deathly pale, and ever and anon contortions
of intense physical pain crossed

Hs features ; but at sight of the visitor, a
flush spread over it, and he turned eagerly
towards her.

miss Nell! Miss Nell!' he said, 'it's
what I've prayed and hoped for, to see you.
I can't die easy till I've asked your pardon.
I can't think God will forgive me till you
and the master say you do. And you
wouldn't come here to taunt me with my
crimes, I know.'

She placed herself in the chair beside him.

No, Jim, I could not come to taunt you.
You have sinned, but you repent. May
God forgive you, as I do, and your master.'

Has he forgiven me. Miss Nell ? Did he
say so ? Oh, I couldn't go before my God
without his forgiveness ! '

He forgives you fully, Jim. He hopes,
as I do, that you may find mercy with God.'

Oh, Miss Nell, how can you bear the

sight of me ? I've done worse by you almost
than by the master. But there have been
seven devils in me ever since. I've often
thought as I should go mad. And now
i.t's God's justice that I shoidd come to such
an end. I'm glad it's happened so ; indeed
I am, Miss Nell. I was too big a coward to
give myself up to swing for it ; but now
they'll let him go free, and I'm glad of it.
I'd rather die than keep on as I was,
murdering an innocent man. Miss Nell,
I've been thinking all night, maybe this
pain as I'm suffering will go a bit towards my
account, to weigh against what I've done  '

I pray God so, Jim.'

Do you remember, Miss Nell, that day
last winter it was, when you met me in
the avenue and questioned me, and seemed
to read the heart within me ? Do you
remember what you said then as I should

feel upon my dying bed, if so be as I'd let
an innocent man be convicted in my stead ?
It's all true, Miss Nell, as true as gospel ! '

Barrett,' said the chaplain, ' we will say
a prayer together.'

And together they knelt down, he and
Nell, whilst silence reined in the neighbouring
beds, and James Barrett joined his
weakly hands together. It was a prayer
for mercy, for forgiveness ; and Nell, with
the painful gasps of the dying man echoing
close beside her, could pray it from her heart.

AVhen she rose up a sweet light was
shining in her eyes, the light of a pitiful
mercy, and she laid her hand upon those of
the young man.

God bless and forgive you, Jim ! ' she
said gently, in a low voice, and he caught
her hand in his with a sob.

Oh, Miss Nell, ]\Iiss Nell, will you ask

him to fomive me  him as I've wronged
the most ? '

It was a beautiful face into which he
looked so pleadingly, a face agitated by a
new hope, a sweet compassion.

I will, Jim.'

She was still holding his hand, and he was
still gazing up into her face, as if searching
there for the gate of heaven, when a sudden
convulsion distorted the pale features.

My poor old father,' he murmured, ' tell
him not to fret about me  and Lucy, poor
little maid  '

He stopped with a cry of mortal agony,
and a greyness came over his face, as Mr.
Carter beckoned to the nurse, and led Nell
hastily away.

But it was many hours before the terrible
anguish of that sudden cry ceased to echo
within Nell Lingwood's ears.

CHAPTER XL

THE HONOURABLE JOHN IS HYSTERICAL.

Iddio non page sempre il Sabato.'

Italian Proverb.

Mrs. Ponsonby was busy making tea at
the breakfast-table in her cosy little diningroom,
and John Ponsonby was standing
before the open window, whistling gently,
and looking out with a gknce of approbation
upon the feeble rays of sunlight that
struggled across the quiet Square, when
the little housemaid  bought, as John
always said, to match the house  entered
and put a telegram into his hand.

The next moment Mrs. Ponsonby turned

round, tea-cup in hand, believing that her
husband had taken leave of his senses.

John ! ' she said, ' what is the matter ? '

John had given a wild view-halloo, after
which he improvised a short but effective
hornpipe ; and then seizing the tea-cup out
of her hand, flung it up in the air and
caught it adroitly several times, still dancing
round the room on one leg.

Oh, John, take care ! Our pretty teacups
! What has happened ? '
' I'll tell you in one moment,' he exclaimed.
' But a kiss first, Judy ! '
And. taking her by the shoulders, he
turned her towards him, and kissed her
breath almost away.

Oh, John, John, do be quiet ! Has anyone
left you ten thousand a year ? '

'Better, far better! Head that.' And
he placed the telegram before her.

It was from Nell at Liverpool, sent off
first things that morning-james

Barrett has made full confession
of the murder. Mr. Brereton and I came
last night. Can you possibly join us ? '

What do you say to that, aye ? ' he
inquired. ' Hip, hip, hooray, little woman ! '

But Judith had turned pale, and for a
moment she gazed at the paper and did
not answer.

The news it contained seemed too good
to be true. For a moment she was blind,
deaf, and dumb, absorbed in realizing the
changed condition of things ; the next, her
cheeks flushed scarlet, and tears of joy
started to her eyes, as, involuntarily, she
clasped her hands and looked upwards.

Oh, great God of heaven, I thank
Thee ! ' she exclaimed. And never was

thanksgiving ejaculation more true and
earnest.

Then she flung herself into her husband's
arms with a sob of joy.

Oh, John, dear John, how good God is
to us ! '

AYelV he said, * I'm not going to contradict
anything you choose to say just now,
my dear. And you may give me another
kiss, if you like. It seems to do me good 
almost as much good as playing ball with
the tea-cups. Hooray, old fellow  we'll soon
have you out of that prison of yours ! And
as for that Barrett, wont I put on my best
necktie to go and see him swung up ? '

Oh, hush, John ! it is too awful a subject
to joke about  '

True, my dear ; but you married me for
better, for worse, you know  '

'And the worst part of you,' she said.

smiling, *is your tendency to make jokes
upon everything. John, I am so happy, I
don't the least know what I am saying ! '

I'm sure I don't, Judy. But now, what
time does the express leave ? Ten o'clock.
If I take a quick hansom, and a quicker
breakfast, I can get to the station in lots
of time. Eun, little woman, and bundle a
couple of shirts and socks into my 
for me. I mayn't be able to get
back to-night.'

Stop away as long as ever you like,
John, if it will get Barrington out an hour
sooner. Oh, my darling boy ! '

And Mrs. Ponsonby flew to do her husband's
behest with a radiant countenance.
Twenty minutes later the hansom was at
the door, and he was hurrying down to it.

Judy,' he said, as he gave her a parting
kiss, * you never  no, never !  gave me to

understand before how maddeningly pretty
you could be ! '

Great joy makes every one look pretty
they say, John. Bat don't lose time

Do / look pretty ? ' he asked, twisting
up his face into a monstrous contortion.

Oh, do be off, John ! I shall never feel
content till you are off.'
There's a loving wife ! '

It's so foolish to go on in this way
before Mary Ann. I'm sure she is listening.
How can you expect her to respect you ? '

My dear, I've a good mind to give hera
kiss too ! I find nothing relieves my
present excitement like embracing somebody.
I hope there won't be any decent-looking
females in the same compartment with me
going up to town ; I'm safe to kiss them ! '

And John Ponsonby sprang into the
hansom, and was out of sierht in a moment.

The next day it was known all over
England by those who cared to know, or
who read the newspapers, that an innocent
man had been convicted of the murder of
Robert Brereton, and unjustly incarcerated
for a period of nearly a year and three
quarters ; and that the true murderer had
made full and satisfactory confession of the
crime the day before his death. Sensational
particulars were of course given in many of
the papers, describing the social position
and former profession of the condemned
man, and details of the accident which put
an end to Barrett's life,  not to mention a
touching account, in one or two, of the
meeting between the released prisoner and
his white-haired mother, with various other
incidents of a like intimate and moving
nature. It seemed like a judgment of
Providence, one and all remarked, that the

murderer should be cut off at the very
moment when he hoped to consolidate his
own safety, and to clinch his double crime,
by leaving the country where languished
the unhappy man whom he had consigned
to so cruel and unjust a fate.

It was a stirring story altogether, what
with the sudden death of the guilty, and
the social position of the innocent man ;
and there were perhaps few persons in
the county at whose dinner-table it did
not that day furnish a certain amount of
discussion and animated conversation.

Of Nell fortunately there was no mention
in the papers. Happily for her, and to the
extreme satisfaction of Mrs. Brereton, the
reporters had not lighted upon the fact
of De Witt's intended marriage, or they
doubtless would have made capital out of
so interesting; a detail.

Ponsonby's presence in Liverpool lead
been doubly useful, not only on account of
the clear head and business knowledge
which told him what steps must be taken
officially upon the matter ; but also in
controlling and guiding Mr. Brereton, who
seemed, what with agitation and nervousness,
completely to have lost what little
common-sense he ever possessed.

Every one readily placed matters in
Ponsonby's hands; and, under his guidance,
they all returned southwards that evening
Mr. Brereton and Nell to the Cedars, and
he himself to town, to lay the deposition
at once before the Home Secretary.

How the poor girl longed to accompany
him instead of her father no words could
say ; how she yearned to be one of the
first to congratulate her lover, to pour upon
him all the treasure of the devotion that

VOL. III. O

had accumulated in lier heart during all
these sad and terrible months, no one but a
woman in like position could guess ; but, if
she could have wished to brave the absolute
prohibition of her guardian and stepfather,
she could not but submit sorrowfully
to John Ponsonby's decision.

Better not,' he said. ' Give him time to
turn round and think. He will be in a
whirl at first. The shock of recovered
liberty will be almost as great as was the
first shock. Let him be quiet a bit. If I
can, I will get him to come to us. And
then, after a while, if your guardian consents,
yoa can come up too and meet him.
Judith will write and tell you everything;
and you can write to him.'

And so it was settled; and poor Nell,
trying to restrain her yearning impatience,
returned to the Cedars, to await the happy

telegram which should announce De Witt's
liberation, a little relieved by the loving
outpourings of a note which she had confided
to Ponsonby to be given to him
the earliest moment possible.

It was a honos evening; of waiting, and a
sleepless night to Nell. She knew the
telegram could not well reach her before
ten or eleven o'clock, but it was terrible
work sitting still or pacing up and down ina
restlessness of suspense that soon became
uncontrollable feverishness.

Mrs. Brereton's remarks were as so many
mosquito stings to the girl in her present
condition. She avowed, as was her duty todo,
that she was very glad that justice was
to be done at last, and that an innocent
person was to be liberated ; yet she seemed
to have a secret feelings that De Witt had

altogether behaved unfairly to them all
m' > 2

and that it would have been more seemly
of him if, after matters had been quietly
arranged, with the approval of most people,
he had had the good taste to remain where
he was, instead of returning to re-open an
unpleasant subject.

It would be very awkward for them
all,' she said, quite fretfully. ' What should
they do if they ever happened to meet
him again in society ? Though probably he
would have too much good sense to wish to
enter into society again. She did not know
whether people would exactly care to know
him now. It was very sad for him, no
doubt ; but of course a man couldn't expect,
after nearly two years spent among the
lowest dregs of society, to be thought the
same of as before. She hoped no one would
blame Mr. Brereton ; he acted for the best.
It would never do to let murderers roam

loose about the world, just because there
might be the particle of a chance that somebody
else had committed the crime. Would
it be possible for Captain De Witt, she
wondered, to bring; an action ag-ain't the
magistrates ? Oh, no, of course he couldn't !
But he might make things very unpleasant
for Mr. Brereton if he chose ; he had a
great many friends in good position.'

Nell could bear no more ; and setting her
teeth with anger, disgust, and shame, she
fled from the room to her own little boudoir
up-stairs. She had not been there many
minutes when the maid, entering, handed
her a card. It was Colonel Stewart's.

He is in the dining-room, miss ; he
asked particularly for you.'

Nell's first impulse was to send down
word that she could not see him ; but with
the second she rose from her chair, a flush

upon her cheeks, and descended to the
dining-room;

The old Colonel was pacing up and down
the room, hat in hand. At her entrance he
paused and made her a bow, which she
returned in silence. She had never spoken
to him voluntarily, never taken his hand,
since that day last year when he had ushered
in the men who were to arrest De Witt ; and
she did not offer to shake hands now.

Miss Lingwood,' said the old man after a
pause, ' I have come to ask you to forgive me ! '

The silence was unbroken, and the
beautiful young face into which he looked
was strangely hard and cold. Why was it
so much easier to forgive James Barrett, the
dying murderer, whose hands were stained
with actual blood, than this handsome,
kindly, courteous old gentleman, whose
cruelty had been involuntary, and whose

lips had probably never before asked pardon
of any human creature ?

I did you  and him  a cruel wrong he
continued sadly ; ' but it was an error of
judgment, Miss Ling wood, not of intention.
You cannot regret it more now than I do.'

Had you never spoken to him, Colonel
Stewart, had you never looked in his face and
seen its expression, that you could believe
such as him capable of murder? My stepfather
was mad with grief about his son, but you 
you were in full possession of your senses.'

I was not the only one mistaken. Miss
Ling wood. The twelve jurymen all convicted
him.'

They only judged by the evidence 
they knew nothing of him personally.'

'We magistrates are bound to go by
evidence too. You would not have us go
by feeling ? '

Some of you would have little danger of
that she remarked bitterly.

He flushed to the roots of his grey hair.

'Then you refuse to accept my regret,
Miss Lingwood ? '

What you have done to me I can easily
forgive, Colonel Stewart. But can you give
him back his ruined life ? '

God forbid that it should be ruined ! I
never wish to sit upon the Bench again, for
my part."

She scarcely heard him. Her face was
buried in her hands, and she "was trembling
all over.

*Let us be thankful,' she said, 'you and
I, Colonel Stewart, that at the last and
most important judgment we shall stand
before the bar of God, and not of man ! '

When at length she raised her head he
had left the room.

Colonel Stewart ! ' she called feebly.

Already lie began to repent ber of ber
hardness. But as she spoke the ball door
closed ; and looking from the window, she
saw him riding past, bis eyes cast down, the
grey bead bowed upon his breast.

She bad been cruel to the old man, and
she knew it. Her love for Barrington had
shown itself by the fierce emotions of the
tigress, not the gentle spirit of the woman.
And, great as was her joy when, half an
hour later, the telegram was brought to her,
announcing the freedom of the man she
loved, yet, even that moment of supreme
satisfaction would, she felt, have been the
sweeter had not this little pang; of self-reproach
mingled with its happiness.

If joy was to make her hard-hearted,
might not the judgment of renewed trouble
fall upon her ?

CHAPTER XII.

SHE IS TOO YOUNG TO JUDGE FOE HERSELF.'

This phantom is it whose persistence mars
The tender beauty of the summer hours,
Whose image blots from me the kindling stars,
And saddens all the splendour of the flowers.'

John Payne.

A SOFT autumnal sun was flinging its long
rays over the beautiful old-fashioned town
of Hyeres. In front it gleamed upon the
pale surface of the distant sea, casting up
the lies door upon a background of crimson,
whilst behind it lay in a golden glory upon
the ruins of the old castle crowning the
conical hill that shelters the long line of neat
white houses. A slight shower early in the
morning had laid the dust upon the straight

white roads, and washed the noble palm-trees
of their grey coating ; the light breeze
that blew was heavy with the scent of the
late October roses, and the birds sang with
fervour in the red and yellow-tinted trees.

It was a lovely and a peaceful scene 
an autumnal day that forgot its date,
and breathed only the tender regrets of a
fading summer. There could not be many
more such surely, even in this sunny,
flowery, favoured land. It was a day to
poetic, to make love, to dream day-dreams ;
a day to lie beneath the blue sky and give
thanks simply for existence amid surroundings
so perfect, so peaceful.

The hotel garden was a beautiful and an
extensive one, but at the present moment it
was nearly empty ; one person only occupied
the furthest bench placed to command the
far-spreading view this lovely evening.

The season was yet early, and the house by
no means full ; and in this fine weather
many visitors elected to make long excursions
to the neighbouring lions.

The man who sat beneath the trees, looking
out upon the three-miles off sea, was
half reclining on the iron bench, over which
one arm fell listlessly. He was both young
and good-looking;, but his hair about the ears
was tinged with grey. His fair complexion
was very sunburnt, and his hands, although
well-made and the hands of a gentleman,
were brown as mahogany. A strange, stern
expression pervaded his face, and the blue
eyes were characterized by a mingled look
of defiance and of sadness.

Barrington  for it was he  had been
here about a week, and already he was
thinking of moving on. His restlessness
made him incapable of remaining long in

any one place. He was in truth vainly
seeking to leave behind him a burden that
had become by degrees part of his very self.
At each fresh move he said to himself he
would be able to cast it off, in some measure
at any rate  and lo ! there he always found
it waiting for him on his arrival. He had
thought, when in prison, that freedom was
the one thing for which he yearned ; that
liberty to go where he would, to do as he
would, to think as he would, unquestioned
and un watched, was almost all that was
absolutely necessary to happiness ; but now
he found that he had been mistaken, that a
life which has been once rudely severed, as
it were, in two by some great moral earthquake,
cannot at will resume its former
self-control, its former ways of thought, of
action, of enjoyment.
The taste of a bitter potion, even when

the potion itself is swallowed clown, does
not at once leave the palate. For a longtime
it prevents the power of tasting
other condiments. So it seemed morally
to Barrington ; it seemed to him that
he had lost the power of enjoyment, the
power of being happy or even contented,
that he had no strength to shake himself
out of the lethargy of the past despair.
Even the beauty of the outside world
had little effect upon this sad and restless
apathy ; the beauty of earth and sea and
sky seemed all the more cruel to a man
whose aims in life had all been shattered
so utterly and for ever, as he thought. All
the old grooves had been broken down, the
old hopes swept away by that convulsion,
and he had no energy to re-construct anew.
Barely thirty years of age, De Y/itt felt
himself an old man.

Silently now, seated alone upon the shady
bench, he reviewed the past few weeks.
How kind every one had been to him ; and
yet, it was terrible to feel, how unavailing
had all the kindness been to heal his smarting
wounds  the wounds of a broken self-respect,
of bitter memories, of a marred
life. In prison he had allowed himself
to think of Nell, to pray for her, to recall
her loving smile, her tender words ; he
might do it then, because she was as far
removed from him as the angels, and he
could never hope to see her again, nor could
he injure her by his love ; but now  now
that he was once more a free man and
acknowledged innocent  he must put her
away even from his very thoughts, lest
they should get the better of him ; now, if
he really loved her, he must avoid her, try
to foret her, teach her to forget him.

Never would he take a selfish advantage of
so noble and generous a nature. Lie was
ready to give him, now as before, all the
rich treasure of her love and confidence  
not even a conscious thought of self-sacrifice
marred the beauty of her unselfish yearnings ;
so all the more must he be the one to renounce,
the one to break the thin cord that
still connected him with this world's happiness,
and drift apart  for her sake. For
her sake ! She should not devote her rich
young life to one saddened and embittered
like his ; she should never be placed as his
wife in a position that might bring upon
her the undreamt-of pangs of cruel comment
or slanderous sneer. How hard it had been
to answer her little loving note  to answer
it rightly, and to quench, with a few carefully
thought-out words, all the flow of her
joyful, expectant heart ! Bitter it had been,

the bitterest experience even of his life ;
but it was done, and he knew that he
was right. For her sake ! In that short
response of his he had, with his own hand,
snuffed out his last hope, plunged himself
voluntarily into the darkness of unmixed
gloom.

Ponsonby had met him at the very prison
gates, and brought him to his own house ;
he and his wife devoting themselves, like
the good Samaritan in the Bible, to the
work of uplifting the downtrodden man,
and pouring balm upon his wounds.

For a while De Witt had been silent and
submissive, with the shock of the unexpected
deliverance full upon him ; but he soon
grew restless.

Do not try to make me stop,' he said

almost pleadingly to John Ponsonby. 'I

am best alone for a bit.'

VOL. III. p

Very reluctant were both the two to
part with him. He should have his sitting-room
to himself alone if he liked, they
said. He could have his meals alone,
if he would only stay ! But at last they
were convinced that their affectionate kindness
was a cruelty, and they let him go.
They acknowledged to one another that he
was right, that he would be best alone fora
while, until he had somewhat recovered
his balance of mind  until he could, as it
were, re-arrange his thoughts and his life ;
and by degrees return, by the sight of men
and things, by the brisk, busy sounds of
the outer world, and the old accustomed
refinements and ways of existence, to something
of his former self.

They did not know what answer he had
sent to the note which Nell had written
and Ponsonby had delivered ; but they saw

that, for some reason or other, it had added
to rather than detracted from his habitual
silent sadness.

It was almost more than Judith Ponsonby
could bear to see this bright, merry nephew
of old, always her playmate and companion *
in every joke and whim, so terribly changed.
Was the brightness scorched out of him forever,
or only for a time, by the furnace of
his undeserved trouble ?

But she was too unselfish to try to keep
him when she saw that he longed to be
alone.

Some day when I'm brighter I'll come
and see you again, Aunt Judy,' he said, in
answer to her distressed looks. ' One wants
a little time to shake this sort of think; off,
you know, and one does it best by oneself.
I'm too stupid just now to bore any

one

p 2

'You will never be stupid to me or to
John, dear Barrington.'

You are the best and kindest of women,

Aunt Judith, and Ponsonby is as good asa

fellow can be. I never can ' thank you

both enough for all you've done and been

( r me

It was nothing we did, dear  only what
we must have done. But if we could only
restore some of your old happiness to you  '

'Don't fret about that  it will come, no
doubt, in time ; and if it doesn't, it isn't of
much account. Things are a little stiff just
now  perhaps they will wear smoother.'

God grant it, dear old boy. Oh, Barry,
I must ask  is it all over between you
and poor Nell ? Will it never come on
again ? '

It is all over between us ; it will never
come on again

Yet she loves you so, Barrington ! I
believe it will break her heart.'

She knew she was foolish, perhaps wrong
in saying this ; but her woman's tender
pity would speak out the truth and be
heard.

Yet she half regretted when she saw the
deepening lines upon his brow, and the
repressed pain about the stern mouth.

She will have to suffer,' he muttered ;
but it is better so  it must be so.'

And he turned away abruptly, unable
to bear the gaze of even her loving, sympathetic
eyes.

This conversation had occurred during
those first two or three days when he had
kept Nell's letter by him, reading and re-reading
it every few hours, and trying to
brace himself up to the answering of it.
He had fully made up his mind before then

as to his course of action, but he felt the
effort to put it into execution too great at
first.

But the second day he received a letter 
from Mrs. Brereton  which made him knit
his brows and set his lips together more
tightly than usual, and which braced him
up to the work he had to do. It was a
rambling rigmarole, characteristic of the
somewhat feeble mind of the writer, in
which she threw herself, so to speak, upon
the mercy of Captain De Witt.

She had but just discovered, she said, the
perverse madness of her daughter in thinking
of reviving the old connection with
Barrington, or, at any rate, of corresponding
with him. Her guardian, Mr. Brereton,
would of course never consent to her re-engagement,
and had forbidden her to
correspond or to renew the acquaintance ;

and so long as she was a minor, she was
completely beneath his control.

Under the circumstances, I think even
you, Captain De Witt, can scarcely say that
he is not acting rightly. She is as yet too
young to be able to judge for herself on a
point so important to her future welfare.
No one can be more sorry, or regret more
deeply than my husband and myself, that
you should have been the victim of so terrible
a mistake ; but mistakes the most fatal
will occasionally happen in this world, without
any one being to blame for them ; and
one can but act according to circumstances,
even if it bears hardly upon those who are
not personally to blame. I therefore appeal
to you as a man of honour and a gentleman.
I do not know if you still entertain the
regard you formerly professed for my
daughter ; but if so, you surely will not

be showing it by tempting her to defy her
lawful and natural guardians, or inducing her
to renew an intimacy which can never be for
her happiness. She is, you know, impulsive
to a fault, and cares little how imprudent
she may be when she has once taken a thing
into her head. I appeal to you, therefore,
in kindness to her rather than to oblige
me, not to encourage her wilful inclinations,
but yourself to put a stop to the correspondence
she was so mad as to commence

Truly, Mrs. Brereton had no lack of
confidence in his generosity, no small faith
in the unselfishness of the released convict !
And when she knew, as well as he did, that
in a few more months her daughter would
be of age and a free agent !

But his judgment agreed with her conclusions,
though his heart revolted from her
cold and calculating premises.

Mrs. Brereton received no answer to her
letter, but one reached Nell the next
morning.

'Dearest it said, 'this must be the last
time we write to each other. No one but
you could have written what you did to me
two days ago. I am not ungrateful, Nell, 
I shall never forget that letter, I will never
part with it,  but it is because you are too
generous to think for yourself that I must
think for you. AVe must part  we are
parted, Nell. Think no more of me  be
dead to me ; you cannot do me a greater
service than by trying to forget me. I will
never ruin your life by uniting it with mine.
Do not answer this ; let us spare ourselves
needless pain. God bless you now and forever.
B. D. W.'

And the girl who received and read that
letter sat gazing at it blankly, incredulously,

without sound or movement, like one paralyzed.
Better for lier, she said to herself,
in the bitterness of that first moment, if he
had died even the death of the criminal;
for then he would have died with her name
upon his lips, the love of her within his
heart ! And now he told her to forget ! To
forget ! Oh, God ! forgive him the cruel
words that brought a stab so deep to her
heart  that he should tell her to forget, that
he should wish it, think it possible for her !
Now indeed she recognized that amid the
very deeps of grief may 'yet lie more unfathomable
depths of pain.

But to him all this was unknown ; and,
wrestling hard to carry out his cruel duty
to its end, he had no suspicion that the
weapon his own hand had wielded had
struck most sharply home to the girl he
loved.

That same afternoon Sir Simon called.
He could not refuse to see his cousin : but
the demonstrative affection, the excited joy,
the congratulations of the kindly Baronet
were almost more than he could bear.
After a tension such as he had undergone a
man's nerves become weak, and he felt that
one or two more such ordeals would go far
to drive him out of his senses. He had
none of the spirit of cheerful hopefulness
displayed, by his cousin, and for the
moment felt himself in too stunned a
condition to reciprocate the friendly smiles,
or be grateful for the words of sympathy
expressed by the other. The next morning
he took his departure from the Ponsonbys'
hospitable home, and established himself in
lodgings in a somewhat out-of-the-way part
of town, by this means hoping to avoid
other visitors.

One call there was he must pay before
leaving the country  and that was on
Geoffrey Kainsford's widow. He felt none of
the constraint and repulsion on meeting her
with which the sight of others filled him.
She had indeed been part and parcel of his
prison life and thoughts ; and she had a
sorrow of her own too great to fear that she
would want to offer him a burdensome but
well-meant sympathy.

Between them lay the silent bond of love
for the same man  poor Geoffrey, who had
died in his arms, and who, in happier days,
had so often lain in hers.

Never had his own troubles moved him
so much as when he sat in the dingy
little London lodging, telling the weeping
widowed girl every detail he could recollect
of her dead husband, and mingling comfort
as best he could amid his sad story. But

her best comfort was the thought of the
friend whose presence had kept the deathbed
of her darling[ from bemgr one of utter
loneliness and sordid harshness.

You were like a brother to him  God forever
bless you ! ' she wept.

'I loved him said De Witt simply; and
at the words she bent and kissed his hands,
her hot tears falling over them.

He returned home, soothed and softened.
For the sake of Geoffrey's widow, he might
perhaps have reconciled himself to a short
stay in town ; but the next morning his
determination altered.

A former fellow officer, who had some
slight acquaintance with Ponsonby, obtained
knowledge of his whereabouts, and spent an
hour the next day in visiting De Witt  who
could not well deny himself  in condoling
with him in his abominable treatment and

cruel hard luck, and in pressing upon him
every form of friendliness and of proffered
hospitality that a good-natured but rather
shallow brain could devise. This visit would
undoubtedly, Barrington felt, be the precursor
of a score of others. All well-meaning,
kindly, and tactless acquaintances would
feel it their duty now to come and sit upon
his case, to talk over his experiences, to
abuse his judges, and sympathize with himself
 to make a pitiful and battered lion of
him, in fact. It was more than he could
bear. Perhaps he ought to have felt more
gratitude to these friends : he tried to do
so, but his heart was too sore to be able as
yet to make his terrible experiences the
subject of promiscuous conversation, or even
to bear the offered condolences ; and he fled
the place, to the relief of his landlady, who
had some private suspicions of his sanity,

and who openly (down-stairs) disapproved
of a lodger so taciturn and grave, and who
spent so much of his time in an unnatural
and gloomy seclusion.

The next morning De Witt dropped a
letter into the post-box, informing Ponsonby
that he was going abroad for a few months,
and that his solicitor, or banker, would be
informed every now and then of his address
and an hour later was in the express on
his way to Dover.

That night found him in Paris, the next
at Marseilles, and the day after at Hyeres.
"Why he had chosen Hyeres he knew not. He
had heard it was a pretty spot, and he fancied
it might be a quiet one. Perhaps there he
could be to himself for a while  perhaps
there he might be safe not to meet any one
who had known him in the old days, that
seemed now to belong to another man's life.

And so lie found it on the whole. The hotel
was uncrowded, the peasantry were civil and
kindly, and he seemed at last alone, free to
roam all day along the bare green plain that
ran between the sea and town, or to ramble
into shady, many-coloured woods upon the
hill-sides  walking alone, feeding alone,
living alone, and by degrees entering into
that calmer frame of mind which he hoped
might be the forerunner of a return to life
and energy and hope. But it was a process
that worked slowly, and as yet had scarcely
begun to make itself felt. Even yet he had
scarcely got rid of the feeling of being
watched, the expectation of being followed,
of the nightmare of slavery  he could
scarcely as yet realize that he was once
more a man, no longer a chattel.

This afternoon he seemed more than usual
a prey to apathetic sadness, as he sat, his

eyes fixed upon the ground, bis limbs
motionless, like one absorbed in a painful
dream. Suddenly, however, he started and
raised his head. The sound of little footsteps
were heard upon the gravel-walk
behind him, and, as they paused, a baby
voice accosted him. Involuntarily he smiled ;
he had a natural love of children. Was not,
he sometimes thought to himself, the absence
of innocent childish faces, of the
sound of sweet childish voices, possibly as
powerful a factor even as the prevalence of
criminal nature in the creation of that
atmosphere of crude brutality so perceptible
in a convict establishment ? Was it
not the eradication of one of the few softening
or refiniuo influences which might yet
have power here and there to act upon
depraved minds ?

VOL. TIL Q

CHAPTER XIII.

TWO TENDER HEARTS.

No, never more may we smile, as thou
Saddest round smiles from thy sunny brow ;
Yet something it is in our hearts to shrine
A memory of beauty undimmed as thine ! '

Mes. Hemans.

She was a little yellow-haired, blue-eyed
child of three, whose hands were full of
scarlet leaves and golden blossoms.

I've got bouful flowers for you,' she said
confidentially, climbing up to him with a
laborious stretch of her little legs. ' Look !
isn't they nice ? '

She was his one friend in the hotel. The
first day of his arrival they had met upon

the stairs and exchanged smiles ; and since
that date she had never seen him without
running to meet him joyously. She was a
thorough little coquette, and Barrington's
grave face, instead of repelling, seemed to
attract her baby-love and attentions.

She squatted herself down beside him
now, and began to pick out her brightest
coloured leaves.

*Take off oo's hat,' she commanded imperiously
; and he laid it beside him upon
the bench, watching her with quiet eyes
as she bent over him, dropping a spray here
and there across his brown hair, her face
intent with the seriousness of her occupation.

There ! ' she remarked presently, drawing
a little back from him to contemplate
the effect of her handiwork  ' oo's pitty
now ! ' And she smiled admiringly.

His arm had been round her for some

Q 2

moments to lend protection to her elevated
position, and lie drew her towards him
suddenly and kissed her passionately.

I likes you she said softly, as she put
a little hand round his neck and pressed her
smooth cheek to his ; * does you like me ? '

He nodded assent.

Velle much ? ' asked the little fairy.

Belly much.' And for a moment the
old bright smile lit up his features and
transformed their sadness.

Lie looked at him earnestly out of her
blue eyes ; with the close observation of a
feminine nature, she had noticed the transfiguring
beam.

Now,' she said triumphantly, ' you looks
pitcher than ever ! Why doesn't you always
look like that % '

Muriel, come here 1 ' called an authoritative
voice behind them ; and De Witt

started and dropped his arm from about the
little creature.

Come down. Muriel ! ' repeated the voice
more sharply ; and the child obeyed in
silence, leaving her treasures on his lap.
He had perhaps remarkable powers of hearing
; at any rate he could not help overhearing
the next few words, spoken by the
mother of his little friend to her companion.

'That dreadful man, Edith ! She is always
going to him. Somehow he gives me the
impression of some one who has committed
a horrid crime, and is afraid of beiusf found
out. He slinks about by himself all day  '

Barrington sat motionless until they had
passed out of sight and hearing ; then he
rose and shook off the petals left by baby
hands.

Is, then,' he asked himself with bitterness,
'the mark of Cain so plainly branded

on my brow that I bear a guilty look to
every one ? '

He passed through the hotel gates and
turned his face towards the sea. It was
as yet barely five o'clock ; he would have
plenty of time for a long stroll before the
general six o'clock table-dliote was over,
and his own dinner laid out at its conclusion.


It was quite dark by the time he returned
a quiet, peaceful night, with the feeble
rays of a young moon struggling through
a bank of silver clouds. He had walked
far, and felt the better for it ; and his
solitary dinner eaten, he lit a cigar and
strolled out upon the balcony which ran
along the house. The young moon had
gone behind a cloud, and it was quite dark
as he paced slowly to the further end and
stood leaning: over the stone balustrade,

looking out into the night. His cigar was
still in his hand, and had gone out. He
was wondering whither he should go upon
the morrow. He had told them before
dinner that he must depart in the morning ;
but he had not as yet settled upon his
destination. Cordillera should it be ?

At this moment he heard a faint rustling
beside him, like that made by a
woman's dress, and turning sharply, perceived
a figure seated in the corner of the
stonework just beyond him. As he turned
she rose, and the moon at the same moment
reappearing, he recognized a lady who had
apparently been some time in the hotel,
and with whom he had, since his arrival,
formed a sort of quasi-involuntary acquaintance.
Once he had restored to her in
silence a glove which she had dropped upon
the garden walk, and once or twice he had

drawn back and opened the hall door for
her when he found that they were about to
issue together. Each time she had thanked
him with a smile ; and more than once the
last day or two she had, on meeting him
casually, addressed to him a word of greeting
or a general remark. Had he not been
too pre-occupied to notice it, he might also
have perceived that on each occasion she observed
him more closely and with a greater
interest. She was a womfl,n no longer very
young, but handsome and attractive.

He bowed, and was about to move off,
when she addressed him abruptly.

Don't let me drive you away,' she said.
I was just going indoors.'

-There was a pause.

It is a lovely night,' he said at length, as
she did not move.

Yes, lovely ; we are having a late

summer.' She seemed to speak with an
embarrassment which attracted even his
attention. Suddenly she made a movement
towards him, and broke out in tones
of real emotion : ' I must speak to you !
Will you ever forgive me ? '

The moon was now fully out, and as he
glanced towards her in a dull surprise, he
saw that her face was full of earnestness,
and that her lips trembled in the pale
half-light.

Forgive you for what ? ' he asked.
'I must say it. If it is wrong or unwomanly
or impertinent you must tell me,
and not spare me, Captain "Watson ! ' (This
was the name which De Witt  nervously
shrinking from comment or notice, and
fearful of the publicity given by the newspapers
to his late release from prison and the
whole sensational story  had adopted as an

incognito on his travels.) ' But I have noticed
it from the first day you came, and I cannot
bear to see any one look so. Why do you
seem so terribly sad"? Can I do anything
to help you ? *

You ? '

Yes  I. Perhaps you think me mad to
talk in this way to you  perhaps you are
angry with me ; but I have so longed to
help you  '

You are very good  '

Oh, don't speak to me in that tone ! I
mean it kindly. Forgive me ! '

I am sure you do. I have nothing to
forgive. But we are strangers one to
another.'

Strangers are sometimes able to help
each other. I am rich and well born, and
perhaps clever. I cannot bear to see any one
suffer so ! '

How do you know that 1 suffer ? '

How do 1 know ?  because I have not
had a happy life myself, and I can read the
signs of suffering in others

There was a pause ; and as he once more
glanced at her upturned face, he saw tears
gleaming in the dark eyes.

You cannot help me,' he said gravely.

Not in any way ? '

'Not in any way  neither you nor anyone
else. AVe must bear our own burdens,
each one of us.'

I had no right to speak to you ; it was
forward of me ; but yet  '

It was kind and good and womanly of
you.'

I have only made your trouble worse
with bringing it forward. But  it was very
foolish of me  I thought perhaps it might
be a different sort of trouble. Though I am

rich, I never seem to do any good in the
world. And now I have only done mischief,
and made it worse for you to bear.'

You have made it, if possible better.'

He took her outstretched hand in his and
held it for a moment. Her tears were dropping
fast as he released it.

Good night,' he said quietly. ' God bless
you for your kind intentions.' And, as she
moved indoors, he turned to pace the moonlit
balcony.

Had she known the nature of his past
troubles, would she have proffered him
the same warm sympathy ? he asked
himself; or would she instinctively have
recoiled from one who had spent the last
eighteen months of his life in the company
of thieves and forgers and murderers ? Yet
the strange, unconventional offering of
womanly tenderness had done its work inlaying

a temporary balm upon the smarting
sore of his wounded self-respect.

The next morning early De Witt was on
his way to Cordillera. He never met again
with the woman who desired to be his
friend, he never even heard her name. Yet
he often thought of her, sometimes with a
smile upon his lips, but it was a tender
smile. ' She was rich, and yet she seemed
able to do so little good to any one.' Poor
generous, eccentric soul ! Might her softheart
never fall a prey to the self-interested
calculations of an ignoble spirit !

CHAPTER Xii.
Delilah's wiles.

A woman is a foreign land,

Of which, though there he settle young,
A man will ne'er quite understand
The customs, politics, and tongue.'

Coventry Patmore.

John,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, ' I want
to talk to you seriously.'

'Is a man ever so serious as when he
is shaving ? A smile might cost him his
life ! '

There's half an hour still to dinner-time.
When you've done, John, sit down
here, please, and listen to me.'

What's up now ? ' asked Ponsonby, ashe

wiped his last razor, and obediently
took the seat pointed out to him. ' Have
any more of my wife's connections been
taken up for murder ? '

Oh, John, it's no joking matter ! Don't
you think Nell dreadfully changed this
time ? '

I think her looking ill.'

*And miserable, John  utterly miserable.'


I'm afraid so.'

Well, John, after you were gone this
morning I persuaded her to come with me

to see Dr. C . You know how first-rate

he is. Her looks frightened me. She didn't
want to go, poor girl. She looked at me
with those poor hollow eyes of hers, and
said, " Why, what good can he do me,
Judith ? " and nearly upset me ; but she
is so good and submissive that she gave

way directly I pressed her. And what do
you think was the first thing he asked
me ? Whether any of her family had died
of consumption ! I'm sure he thinks her
in a decline, John. He said she must
have as much change of air and scene as
possible, and be out in the open air all day
when fine. He recommended going abroad.
How can she be out all day here in London
in December, in the fogs and sleet ? '

'Not very feasible, certainly,' said .


'And it wouldn't be much better at
the Cedars. They have six or seven inches
of snow down there.'

Pleasant,' he remarked, laconically.

But, John, it isn't open air or change of
scene that will ever cure poor Nell. She hasa
breaking heart  that's her disease, John,
nothing else ; and I believe it will kill her.'

He sat silent, rubbing his eyebrow
thoughtfully.

I do believe it will be her death, if
none of us can help her. Oh, what blind
madmen men are ! I suppose Barrington
thinks he is doing her a kindness in keeping
away from her ? '

Most people would say he was right.'

Because most people have very little
heart. But he has a heart, and he really
cares for her ! He can't surely know he
is killing her ! She said to me yesterday,
I never quite lost heart all through that
dreadful time when he was in prison, he
seemed still to belong to me in spirit ; even
if he had died, he would have died caring
me. But now he seems to have cast me
off; we seem really separated for ever." Oh,
John, you men don't know how we women
can love ! What is want of money, or

VOL. III. E

trouble, or even loss of position, when a
woman cares for any one ? She doesn't
even think of it ! '

'So the man must think for her, if he
is worth a penny

*You don't really think so. Don't you
believe it would be better for poor Nell to
be married to Barrington than to be slowly
breaking her heart for him this way ? '

If I did, Judy, I don't see how I could
help her.'

'No. John, do you know where Barrington
is now ? '

'Not exactly. Somewhere in Switzerland,
I believe, or Italy.'

Couldn't you find out from his bankers
or solicitor ? '

I dare say I might, if I wanted to know.'

Well  / want to know.'

Why ? To write to him ? '

Perhaps. John, dear John, I am going
to ask a favour of you ! '

Of course you are, or you wouldn't
kiss me ! '

'Dear John, will you let me take her
abroad 1 '

Why can't her own mother take her ? '

I could do her more good, John. I
understand her better.'

No doubt you do. And you understand
plotting better too. What game are you
up to, Judy ? AVhat has given you that
becoming little flush ? You are not thinking
of giving chase to Barrington, are you ? '

Oh, John, if they did meet  by accident,
you know  everything would come all right
at once. He is in his heart as miserable
almost for her as she for him, and he could
not keep up his high-flown ideas of self-sacrifice
if once he saw her.'

R 2

Oil, indeed ! And how are you going
to make them meet  by accident ? '

'I don't know. You know it is the
doctor's orders, and I think I could get
the Breretons to consent. I want to goat
once  very soon.'

And leave me alone here ? '

You could join us for the Christmas
vacation. Dearest, you and I don't need
to tell each other some things. I think
you can guess how I shall hate being away
from you ; but I would do more than that
to make two miserable people happy.'

 And suppose you fail ? '

'ItcantMlV

Her guardian has forbidden her to
have any intercourse with De Witt, Judith.
This is the second time you have asked
me to lend my countenance to an illegal
proceeding.'

'And aren't you glad when you think
of the first time ? '

Not at all. I am desperately ashamed
when I think of it I '

You would never have had me for your
wife if you hadn't done it, John. I should
have detested you if you had refused ! '

Well, every man makes a fool of himself
when he is in love, I suppose. But
once is enough.'

No, it isn't, John. Once, nor one dozen
times isn't enough to do an act of kindness.
You will go on doing it all your life,
whether legal or illegal. The lawyer will
never destroy the man in you, John. Besides,
you know you're in love with me
still !

In a few months she will be of age and
her own mistress ; she caen wait till then,
surely.'

By then she may be in her grave, John.
Look at her face when you go down this
evening, it is growing like a mask  so
transparent ; I cannot sit opposite to her
all day, and do nothing. John, don't you
care ? You do, I know ! '

I care very much,' he said slowly. ' But
I wish you would not ask me to go against
lawful authority. It is a sort of underhand
thing to do, it seems to me.'

John, I will write and tell Mr. and Mrs.
Brereton what the doctor says. I know
her mother loves her, and would not wish
her to die. And she always liked poor
Barrington too  till that mean wretch, her
husband, turned her against him. His legal
authority will cease in three or four months ;
and he has no moral authority, even you
will admit  a contemptible creature like
that, who would object to Barrington on

the score of the humiliation which he
himself has unjustly brought upon him.
Could meanness go further ? You don't
stick up for him, surely ? '

Personally,' said John, calmly, ' I look
upon him as a brainless little toad.'

Then, John, darling John, you give way
you won't prevent me ? No one shall
ever know the meeting was not by accident.'

All women are deceitful, without exception,'
he remarked.

This is a noble deceit  a manoeuvre to
put a stop to the misery of two generous,
loving people.'

Well, don't ask my consent, Judy.
You must go your own way. Never quote
my concurrence, for I don't give it. I've
simply got a wife that I can't keep in order.
She defies me. It's easier to put on the
noose than to slip it off ! '

Oh, John, you are such a darling ! '

Yes. And soon it will be " The guardians
be upon thee, John ! ' I suppose
Delilah was a smooth-tongued woman ! '

*We shall be too late for dinner, John.
Be quick ! '

Oh, so you can afford to think of that
now you've gained your point, can you ?
Do you think 1 haven't been famishing the
last hour ? '

And, John, dear, good old John, please
find out that address as soon as you can,
won't you ? You haven't half shaved, dear
your cheeks are quite bristly yet ! '

CHAPTER XV.

NEARLY LOST.

And to his eye
There was but one beloved face on earth,
And that was shining on him.'  Byron.

 Hotel  Lucerne. Dec. 2\st.

'Dearest John,

It is horrible your being prevented
joining us ! I do hope your father's
gout will soon be better, so that you can
come in a few days. Give him my kindest
love. Does he think me a brute for going
away and leaving you at Christmas time ?
If he knew what I felt about it I don't
think he would. The truth is, my heart is
beginning to fail me, dear. I didn't like
to come straight to Lucerne, you know,
because I wanted to come upon Barrington

by accident ; and now I think he must have
left the place. We have been here three
days, and though I have inquired at the
hotels, I can't hear anything of him.

I am beginning to wonder if I had better
have stayed at home ; for change of scene
doesn't seem to do poor Nell much good sofar.
But I console myself with remembering
the doctor recommended it ; and when I
look at the poor girl's pale, patient face, I
feel I am a selfish wretch for thinking of
myself or you. She seems stronger in someways
since we came out, and often surprises
me by the long solitary walks she takes over
the mountains. But I think it is in order to
be alone. Poor child, she seems to dread the
effort of speaking, even to me. She answers
everything with the same sweet, weary smile
which goes to my heart. She is out now,
having done me up with a long morning's
tramp through the heavy snow. This place
makes one shudder to-day  one can scarcely
realize its brilliant, smiling, summer beauty.
The lake is a grey, opaque mass, the sky

like lead, and the great range of snow-covered
mountains opposite us have a like
forbidding greyness about them. Mount
Pilatus has his nightcap on, which means
rain and storm, they say,' &c., &c.

 * - ' - '

-75* "TV" 'Vr "T "A* 'TV'

Whilst Judith Ponsonby sat in the little
private sitting-room in their hotel, before
the fire, inditing this epistle to her
husband, the girl who formed her chief
topic was wandering up the steep hill-side
above the town, regardless of the threatening
look of sky and lake. Waif was at her
heels ; for Nell had brought her faithful
companion abroad with her, and the two
were never separate. She walked on un-wearying,
or if she was weary, she did not
notice it ; for, delicate as the girl looked,
there was a feverish physical energy about
her at times that would have exhausted the
walking powers of most of her sex.

She did not pause till she had gained
a considerable height, from whence she
looked down on town and bridge, and lake
and church. The path had grown narrower
and narrower, more and more obstructed
by snow ; but it was one of the local points
of view most patronized, and in fine weather
considered an easy and pleasant excursion.
Even to-day one or two pedestrians of a
sturdy nature had passed her on the route,
coming down as she went up.

She was not far from the summit now,
but her strength suddenly failed her, and
turning aside from the path, she crossed the
half-hardened snow to where a boulder of
rock showed through the monotony of the
white surface ; and sat down to rest. The
air was cold and frosty, but she was for a
time warmed by her quick exercise, and
did not notice its chilliness. Her eyes

rested vaguely on the wide grey stretch of
the waters beneath her feet ; but her mind
was in a reverie, and she saw nothing  not
even the heavy flakes of snow that begun to
fall all around her, silently, rapidly.

When at leo-th she did observe them
she still sat motionless for a while. A
sort of mental apathy had fallen upon her.
"Why should she not stay quietly there
and die out in the still calm snow and
night air ? It was growing very cold, and
her feet and hands ached dully, but that
would soon be over ; and what was a little
ache like this to the bitter pain that rested
not, day or night, at her heart's core ?
Was it her duty to rise up and go home,
to carry on the heavy, hard struggle any
longer ? Was it wicked to die ? Oh !
why must she go on living ? She had
tried, oh, so hard, to bear her pain, to do

her duty 1 Would the struggle go on forever
? Might she not lay her burden down
at last ? Her death would hurt no one.
She was so tired, so deathly tired ! Had
God no pity on her ?

A soft warm tongue licked her wrist, and
Waif whined and pulled softly at her dress.
His sensible dog-brain saw the danger of the
deepening night, the falling snow, the lowering
barometer  and he warned his mistress.

She got up and looked about her, then
turned towards the direction of the pathway
up which she had ascended. But it
was completely obliterated now ; not a
sign upon the untrodden, newly-fallen snow
marked where it lay concealed. It was
nearly dark, and at each step she only
plunged more helplessly into the half frozen
snow. Was her prayer to be realized ?  and
was she in truth to lose her life to-night,

amid the unlit yet gleaming liekls of
treacherous snow ?

She raised her voice and called aloud for
help ; whilst Waif, after a few moments of
indecision, left her, bounding down the white
hillside. She knew he had not deserted her
basely, she knew her companion had gone to
look for help. The best thing to do was to
stand still until he returned, if such a thing
were possible ; he was not likely to lose his
way, and would come back to her sooner or
later with assistance  even if too late. But,
whilst she paused, half embedded in the snow,
protected a little by the lee of a friendly
rock, she fancied she saw a human figure
coming down the hill, and called once more.

A voice immediately answered hers ; and
the same moment Waif came bounding up
again and fell upon the moving shadow
with wildest protestations of joy.

Nell watched without speaking, and her
heart seemed to stand still.

Where are you ? ' called the voice,  a
strange, husky voice, that she scarcely
recognized,  and she called assail.

In another moment he had sprang with
honos strides across the snow, and stood
beside her.

For one short minute neither of them
spoke. During that swift minute each
perhaps reviewed the love and pain of the
two last years in the light of the speechless
joy of an unexpected meeting.

He was the first to speak ; and as he did
so, the momentary light that had shone in
his face died away.

Nell 1 ' he said in a low voice, ' Nell, is
it you ? '

Barrington,' she said, with trembling lips,
and as she spoke she crept nearer to him,

Barrington, you will not ask me to forget you
now ? You will not try to forget me again ? '
A spasm passed across his face.

Nell, what can T say ? I must take you
home, dear. It is dark and cold for you.'

I will not go home, Barrington, if you
are going to leave me again. I will lie
down and die here.'

Nell,' he said hoarsely, ' you are mad.
Why do you ask me to injure you ? '

Have you ceased to love me, Barrington ? '

Ceased to love you, my darling ! God
knows how my heart has yearned for you ! '

Then why do you give me up ? I shall

die without you, Barrington.' And in the

waning light she lifted her haggard eyes to

his. * I have grown thin and worn and

old, Barrington  I am not pretty now ; but

it is because of my sorrow. And they say

I shall not live long. Will you let me die ? '
VOL. Il s

Oh, my God ! ' lie exclaimed ; and he
buried his face in his hands.

Something warm crept up his shoulder,
and lay upon his neck. It was one of her
small gloved hands.

Don't cast me off, dear Barrington,' she
said softly. ' Perhaps I ought to be too
proud to say it ; but I have no pride left.'

It was all for your sake, Nell. Do you
think I have not suffered ? It was the one
joy left to me in life.'

We will not mind the past now, Barrington
; we will never part again.'

She crept closer again to him. And
suddenly his arms opened, and with a
suppressed sob he caught her in them,
pressing her to him again and again, withall
the fierce hunger of a long-famished love.
Passionately he kissed her cold white face,
her trembling lips, her two hands; the

long-repressed yearning, now at last indulged,
seemed almost to overpower him.

But suddenly he glanced round him with
a startled look. Darkness had fallen, and
the snow was dropping more heavily than
ever. The lights of the town twinkled far
below, and their way homewards was toilsome
and uncertain.

With Nell clinging to his arm, he turned
quickly and made his way across the slope
in the direction he believed and hoped the
path should lie.

She toiled on beside him bravely, but it
was terrible work, and he could do but
little to assist her beyond the support of
his arm ; and by degrees her steps flagged,
and she hung heavily upon him.

Presently she stopped, gasping.

I cannot go on, Barrington. I have no

more strength.'

S 2

He paused with an altered face.

We must go on, Nell ! '

Can we not sit down on the snow fora
few minutes, only a few minutes, dear
Barrington ? '

I dare not, Nell. It is growing blacker
every minute, and the snow deeper. I dare
not let you.'

 I am afraid we shall never get home,'
she said wearily. ' Do you think we shall
be lost % ' And she looked into his eyes
sadly. ' It would be hard, just when we
had found each other at last, wouldn't it ? '

It shan't be ! ' he said fiercely. ' Put
your arms round my neck, Nell. So 
close ! I shall carry you.'

Oh, Barrington, you will never carry me
all the way down. If you were alone you
could save yourself, but now I shall perhaps
lose you too ! '

I shall carry you all the way down,' he
said between his teeth, as the snow flew in
his face, blinding his eyes and pricking his
skin like needle points.

He paused a moment.

 Waif, old fellow!'

Waif stood looking up eagerly into his face.

Waif, go on  go on and fetch them up !
Quick ! hasten on, good dog ! bring them
back with you ! '

Not one instant did Waif hesitate. The
steps which he had been accommodating to
the slower pace of his human companions
now went like the wind, and he was out of
sight in a moment, his light feet bearing
him safely over places where his master
would have sunk in deeply, or been in peril
of a dangerous fall.

Meanwhile the wind was rising, and the
air each moment grew more icy cold.

Put your face down, my darling he
whispered ; ' shelter it behind my head

And with her warm breath upon his
neck he struggled on, bearing his burden
bravely, thanking God for his strong arms.
He had always been a muscular man. But
had there not been a ' soul of good in things
evil,' in the increased development of bone
and sinew by the daily toil in those cruel
Portland stone-quarries ?

CHAPTER XVI.

'she shall not die. look up, my

QUEEN ! '

jSTo joy so great buu riinnetli to an end,
"0 hap so hard but may in time amend ;
Not always fall of leaf, nor ever spring,
jot endless night, nor yet eternal day ;
The saddest birds a season find to sing.
The roughest storm a calm may soon allay.
Thus with succeeding turns God tempered all,
That man may hope to rise, yet fear to fall.'

EoBT. Southwest.

The next morning De AYitt rose after
a sleepless night. Had he done wrong in
breaking his resolution ? Was it selfish to
give way to the generous pleadings of the
girl he loved '? Should he all his life long
be pursued by a vain regret that he had

been weak enough to listen to her voice,
instead of following that first decision, which
had been the result of anxious and careful
deliberation ? Was that decision of his, as
Judith last night in their short, agitated
interview had seemed to imply, one Quixotic
and over-scrupulous, nay cruel ? or was it
indeed the only course for an honourable
man to pursue ? He felt himself unable to
decide ; and since fate and Nell herself
had decided it for him, why should he
grudge himself his great happiness, or mar
it by imagining future drawbacks ?

It was too early as yet to go round to her
hotel, much as he longed to know if she
had escaped without serious harm from last
night's bitter cold and exposure. So he
wandered down-stairs towards the diningroom
and ordered his coffee. He sat
down beside the door which led into the

well warmed hall, the only occupant of the
long bare room. Presently, however, his attention
was attracted by the voices of two
Englishmen outside. They were leaving by
the morning's express to Bale ; and as they
stood below, waiting for their luggage, they
conversed together of De Witt's adventure
of last night, which, through some means
or other, had got about, and was the subject
of much gossip in both hotels.

Most romantic rescue ! ' remarked one.
Such an odd fellow. Never goes into the
smoking-room when other fellows are there,
and scarcely ever opens his lips.

They say there's a reason for that 
that his name isn't Watson at all, and that
he's a shady sort of chap  got mixed up
in some mess or other in England, and had
to cut and run for it.'

Pleasant for the girl in that case ! And

I hear she's an heiress. He'll try to run off
with her on the strength of picking her out
of the snow.'

 Of course he will.'

The omnibus was rattling up to the hall
door, the porters were running down-stairs
with the portmanteaux, and the two well-dressed,
gentlemanly, good-natured young
Englishmen dipped their hands into their
pockets, and with a last fee to the boots
and a nod to the smiling hotel-keeper,
passed out into the cold, raw, early morning
; whilst Barrington finished his breakfast,
as he had begun it, alone. Every one
was late that dark, grey, chilly day except
the two Oxonians, and the man on whose
private history they had descanted so
pleasantly and so veraciously.

And this is what she will have to put up
with ! ' he said to himself, as he rose from

his hardly-tasted breakfast. ' And low
much harder it will be for her to bear than
for me.'

He walked towards the windows. It was
not an inviting day. But he called the
waiter, and telling him he should not be
in to lunch, put on a light overcoat and
started for a long walk. It was better not
to face Nell with these feelings in his heart ;
it was better to wait until he could come
before her with a countenance and mind
forgetful of such poisonous thoughts. She
probably would be too tired to receive him
early ; he would return before afternoon,
and go to her hotel. And by degrees, as he
walked on, the shadows faded from his
mind, and the consciousness of her love
deepened and spread about it with a soothing
warmth ; he grew more than cheerful
he felt happy, and thanked God for his

happiness, walking quicker and quicker
over the snowy roads. After all, what
mattered the slander or detraction of a few
strangers ? All who knew him knew also
of his innocence ; the depressing effect of
prison life and confinement had made him
over-sensitive, mawkish.

The day grew gloomier, and the slow
snow-flakes began to fall, but he took
each step more lightly, thinking of the
bright spot in his life  the deep, pure
woman-love that had more than once saved
him on the brink of despair, that was
stronger than death itself. Yes ; he would
remember only that. Why should he recall
the past, to his misery, if she, sweet soul,
could forget it ?

The snow-flakes fell faster, the sky grew
murder; but he hurried on, enjoying the
cold in his strong youth. He would not
return on foot ; he would walk to the railway

station of L and come back Ly

train. That would bring him into Lucerne
by noon  as soon probably as Nell would be
able to receive him.

But he forgot to take the elements into

o

consideration in his calculations. L

reached, the train started indeed, going
slowly on account of the snow ; but it
never reached Lucerne that night or the
next day. About a quarter of an hour
after De Witt had entered it, it ran into
a snow-drift, where not only it but the
few passengers were forced to remain for
the next twenty-four hours. There were
some provisions amongst the travellers, and
more than one brandy-flask, so the horrors
of starvation were avoided ; but it was not
an agreeable time to any one. Not one,
however, perhaps had such reason to curse
his or her ill-luck as De Witt, frantic at
the thought of the anxiety, the fears which

his absence would occasion Nell. Fortunate
for him that he did not picture to
himself the full horror of the truth  that
he could not see what was passing in the
little room where the sick girl lay.

She had been put to bed that first night
by Judith's tender hands in a state of
drowsy half-consciousness, which might
mean simply over-exhaustion, or portend
some more serious result from the exposure
she had undergone  the doctor who lived
in the house, and was called in to see
her, hoped it was the former. But in the
middle of the night, fever and ague set
in violently, and the morning found her
utterly exhausted and powerless. Yet amid
all her pain and weakness the new look
of serenity never left the girl's eyes, and
she smiled up into Judith's face with a
smile of perfect contentment.

Don't pity me now she whispered, as

the day dawned, and a compassionate word
happened to fall from her companion's lips.
What does it matter if I do cough a little ?
Oh, Judith, I am so happy ! '

But as the morning advanced, her features
began to take a watchful, then an anxious
look.

Do you think he will come soon ? '
she asked. ' Let me get up and go upon
the sofa. I can see him here for a few
minutes, can't I, Judith ? '

Even the rising and partial dressing
seemed too much for her ; but her friend had
not the heart to deny her what she wished.
Judith,' she said, with a forced calm,
once more, as the day wore on, ' why
doesn't he come ? Perhaps he is ill. May
we send and see ? '

Judith's answer was to put on her hat
and walk down to the neighbouring hotel.
Nell's white drawn face of suspense when

lie returned was terrible to see. She could
not speak.

He is gone out, dear, for a walk,' said
Mrs. Ponsonby, terror in her heart, but
disguising it as best she could from the
girl before her. ' He will be back soon,
and then he will come and see you.'

Did they say so ? ' asked Nell with
parched lips.

They didn't say so, dear, but he is sure
to do it,' answered Judith, with a pitiful
cheerfulness.

Did Barrington know what he was doing ?
If he left her now, assuredly Nell's death
would lie at his door.

Judith, Judith, are you sure he will ?
You don't think he is gone away  that he
will oro from me aoain ? '

A terrible trembling had taken hold of
all her limbs, and Judith put her arms
around her.

No, my darling, no ! Don't imagine
such a thing

The hours were horrible as they passed
on slowly, slowly, till the dimness of early
dusk began to fall upon the little room,
and the two women sat looking at each other.

Then Nell spoke again in a hoarse whisper.

Oh, Judith, send again ! Send to ask
if he has come back ! '

And again Judith went out on the errand
she would not intrust to a servant ; and
again returned answered and hopeless.

He will not come now  he is o-one ! '
said the sick girl slowly ; and the settled
despair of her voice was terrible to her
companion.

She did not speak of him" again, and
made no resistance after a time to Judith's
wish that she should exchange the couch
for her bed. She grew weaker and weaker,
and all the restoratives administered to

VOL. III. T

her proved unavailing. All night long the
fever returned, accompanied in turns by
unconsciousness and partial delirium ; and
in the morning she lay without speech or
movement, her face white as the pillow
on which it rested  whether conscious or
unconscious they could not tell, but apparently
deaf and blind to the outside world.

She is dying ! ' said Judith to the
medical man, as she finished telling him
in short outlines poor Nell's sad history.

She is not dying,' he said thoughtfully ;
but she is in imminent danger, unless we
can rouse her from her present condition.'

Nothing will do that except Barrington's
return ! ' replied Mrs. Ponsonby with streaming
eyes.

'Has she a mother living?'

Oh, yes ; in England.'

'Then you had better telegraph to herat
once. Go on with the stimulants. If

you can see any way of rousing her, do
so. I will return in an hour.'

But in less than an hour a tap came
to the bed-room door, and Judith moved
away from the bed-side, where Nell's face lay
stiller, whiter, it seemed to her, with every
moment that passed. The chamber-maid,
speaking in French, pointed below ; and
glancing down quickly, Judith saw Barrington
standing on the landing half-way up the
stairs. In a moment she was beside him.

Is she ill ? ' he asked, out of breath.

She is dying,' said Judith ; ' you have
killed her, Barrington ! '

She had never in her life spoken harshly
to him before. Now in a moment she
repented of her cruel words, for his face
turned ghastly, and he staggered against
the wall as if he had been struck.

I did not mean it ! ' she exclaimed
hastily. ' She may recover yet ; but she is

T 2

very ill. Oh, Barrington, why did you not
come all yesterday '? '

I could not he said ; ' I was in the train
we were snowed up  I have only just got
in'

I knew you could not mean it. Oh, forgive
me, Barrington ! Your coming may
save her.'

May I see her ? ' he asked huskily, as
she beckoned him to follow her up the stairs.

I will see  T think so. Wait here.'

Leaving him standing outside in the
corridor, she opened the door and went in
softly. Still the same colourless face, the
same closed eyes, the same motionless form.
Had he come too late to rouse her from this
death-like apathy ?

Approaching the bed, she bent down so
that her lips were close to the white features,
and for a moment her heart stood still,
unable to hear the faint breathing.

The next she called in a low, clear tone :
Nell ! Nell ! do you hear me ? '

No answer. Not even a flutter of the
blue veined eyelids.

Nell ! ' she called again, and her voice
was full of anguish. ' Oh, Nell, hear me !
Barrington is here  he is come back ! '

Still no life or movement about the pallid
features, no stirring of the quiet limbs.
Nell must be lost indeed to consciousness
before that loved name would fail to rouse
her.

Then Judith opened the door quickly and
beckoned him in.

She does not hear  she does not understand.
See if your voice will rouse her. It
is the last chance. Oh, Barrington, keep
your self-control  for her sake ! '

For, at sight of the poor pale face that
had always been so full of life and love
to him, lying in that sightless, soundless

trance, a sudden sob had burst from his
lips. He did not need her warning. He
was calm again, though all the colour had
left his face, as he bent over the unconscious
girl.

Nell ! ' he said, in a voice unlike his
own, 'Nell, my darling  speak to me 
look up ! '

She stirred a little, and he went on more
passionately, putting his arm about her
shoulders, so as to raise the drooping head
somewhat, and pressing his lips to ber cold
white forehead.

Nell, little Nell  look up, my queen ! '

Was it the sound of the old name by
which he, and he alone, had called her in
the old happy days, that now aroused her
torpid senses ?

At any rate her eyes unclosed, and rested
upon his face. And by degrees a kind of
rapture came into them. She did not speak,

but the long sigh she drew was one of contentment
not of exhaustion. And presently,
still silent, she smiled up at him.

He had brought her back from the valley
of the shadow of death, when her feet were
already set upon the darkening path. Not
to many of us is it so given to rescue to
renewed life those we love.

When the doctor came in soon after she
was still lying in his arms, her head upon
his breast, her hand in his. Barrington did
not move at his entrance ; his whole attention
seemed concentrated on the burden
he held so tenderly ; but the eyes he turned
upon the medical man after he had felt the
pulse of the patient, were full of the agony
of entreaty.

This is a wonderful rally,' said the doctor
quietly. * I presume, Mrs. Ponsonby, we
have trot the right stimulant at last ? '

He spoke gravely, and the gaze which

rested upon the young man was serious and
critical, hut hy no means unfriendly.

Yes he said, answering the looks rather
than the words of the girl's two companions,
I think she will do now, if things go on as
they are. You may continue  the stimulant
at intervals.' And somehow, as the goodman
got up from his chair, he had to take
his spectacles off and wipe them  the
glasses had become so dim.

Barrington,' whispered Nell, as Judith
followed Dr. Kennedy out of the room, and
for a moment they were left alone, ' does he
say I shall recover ? '

Oh, my darling, you must, you will !
I cannot do without you, Nell ! '

I think I shall, Barrington  now you
have come back. I am only weak now.'

I never meant to leave you, Nell ; I
was prevented returning.'

You will never leave me aoain, Barrington
? You will never think it best forme
that you should go away, will you ? '

Never, never, my darling ! '

He could no longer control himself, and
laying his head upon the coverlet, he sobbed
aloud.

She put up her weak arms, and tried to
draw him closer to her.

Don't cry, dear, dear Barrington. How
foolish and wrong I was to think you ever
meant to leave me yesterday. It was wicked
of me to doubt you  I won't do it again

He raised his face, checking his agitation
with an effort.

I will never leave you again, Nell  by
my own will  till we are married  never
for a day ! '

She smiled her old playful smile.

That must be very soon, darling. I

want to have you fast. You mustn't escape
me again. Oh, Barrington. did you ever
love me as I love you, I wonder ? '

I loved you so much, Nell, that I was
willing to give you up  though it broke my
heart  to save you misery.'

 To save me misery ! ' she repeated
slowly.  You made a mistake, Barrington.
Why, dear, I couldn't live without you.
You know it now, don't you ? '

With all my knowledge of you and my
love for you, my queen, I never knew it
as I do now.'

And then a silence, full of sweet eloquence,
fell between them, and she closed her eyes
in a perfect rest.

CHAPTER XVII.

CONTAINING THREE LETTERS AND A MORAL.

'Forgiveness to the injured does belong ;
But they ne'er pardon who have done the wrong.'

Dryden.

Lucerne. Dec. 2AtJi.

'My DEAREST John,

'What will you say? Nell and
Barrington are engaged to each other !
They both got lost in the snow, and Nell
has been at death's door. She is recovering
fast now; but Mrs. Brereton, who was
telegraphed for, may turn up at any
moment. I have such oceans to tell you,
and not a moment to tell it in ; so I will
post this now, and write again tomorrow.
Your loving wife,

Judith.

Pes. What loll old Brereton say to us ?
And only fancy, if he should come out
here ! But it won't make any difference to
Nell. Take care of yourself, dear John,
and tell me in your next that you miss me
very much. Oh, they are both so happy,
John. It almost makes me cry for joy to
watch them ! '

Fillmore Towers. Dec. 26th.

My dearest Judy,

'You are a little fool, and Nell
and Barrington are a brace of ditto ; and I
am the biggest fool of all for letting you
wander about the world by yourself. You
had better return home at once before you
perpetrate any more romantic follies. I
will run over to Paris and meet you any
day you name. Good-bye, my darling.

Your loving

John.

Pes. Old B may go to the d for

anything I care 1 Give my love to the
other couple of fools.'

'Darling John,

What a nice old boy you are I
I think I may as well return the day after
tomorrow, as Mrs. Brereton is here now,
and I am wanted no longer to do duty as
chaperone. It is so absurd,  she hadn't
been an hour in the hous e before she was
completely won over by Barrington, and
now she calls him, to Nell and me, " poor
dear fellow," and shudders at the *' cruel
and shameful way " in which he has been
treated ! She will never oppose their
marriage ; and her husband's authority is
nil in another month. Good-bye, darling.
Oh, how glad I am to be coming home
again ! John, I doubt if I ever thoroughly
realized before what an unselfish woman
you had married in your loving

Judith.

'Pes. It's not right, but it's very sweet
of you to send old B to the d  ! 

How I wish, Edward said Mrs. Bretton
to her spouse, six months later, ' that
you would pay them a visit. I had no
idea Barrington's was such a pretty place ;
and he and Nell seem such favourites withall
the people round. It is quite beautiful
to be with a young couple so devotedly attached
to one another as they are. Dear
Barrington is growing quite his old bright
self again. You could not help loving him
if you saw, as I have done, how happy he
makes her.'

I don't want to love him,' growled Mr.
Brereton, as he turned away sulkily.

