CHAPTER I.

This beggar-maid shall be my queen."

 Squire Terry had quarrelled with his son :

it was impossible to doubt it. Dent, the

 footman, had been crossing the hall when

.* Mr. Eustace had left the house, and the

' old servant had seen, from the expression

 of his young master's face, that he had for
> once made up his mind, and would be

 every whit as determined as his father.
 A few minutes later Dent had been 

money to Mr. Terry in the library, and had

> VOL. I. 1

any doubt on the subject been lingering
in his mind, it must have been dispelled by
what he saw and heard. Mr. Terry was
seated in his own particular chair, his
elbows resting on the arms, his hands
tightly clasped, a look of invincible determination
on his handsome, obstinate face.
He had given a few orders respecting Mr.
Eustace. His things were to be packed
that they might be despatched at a moment's
notice to any address the young gentleman
might send; his name was never to be
mentioned in his father's presence.

Dent left his master with a heart heavy
and sorrowful. It had come to this, then.
The young master, whom he had led by
the hand and made much of when he was
a child, had been driven from his home
because he would not marry the woman
whom his father had chosen for his wife.

 Dear, dear," murmured the old man,
shaking his head as he made his way from
the library to his OAvn quarters, " it is a pity;
yet he never could bear Miss Agatha,
and for two years he has been nigh crazed
about this Margaret Shuttleworth. It will
be an ill day when the Squire of Ash Fell
comes to marry a mill hand, and yet I
doubt she'll make a fonder wife than Miss
Agatha."

The relations of these four people to
one another may be quickly traced. Mr.,
or Squire Terry, as in the neighbourhood
of his estate he was more generally
called, was lord of the manor of Ash Fell.
For centuries the family had ruled over the
broad lands appertaining to it, and had
dwelt in the stately mansion which formed
the chief feature of the place. The house
had been altered, repaired, and restored till

little remained of the original fabric, and
the present dwelling-place of the Terres
was a handsome structure of no particular-period
or style of architecture. It stood
on a raised terrace, and was immediately
surrounded by gardens, tastefully and
quaintly laid out ; while beyond the gardens
away on all sides spread the park, remarkable
on account both of its size and
beauty.

Robert Terry, the present lord of the
manor, had only one child, his son Eustace.
He had been married twice ; Eustace was
the son of his first wife. The second Mrs,
Terry had borne him no children ; she was
a widow with one daughter, who had
married and gone out to India with her
husband. So much for the dwellers of the
Hall.

The girl of whom Dent had spoken as

*miss Agatha" was Mr. Terry's ward,
Agatha Flintoft, a young lady some four
years younger than Eustace, and who had
grown up with him from a child. An
heiress and an only child, Mr. Terry had
looked upon her as in every way a fitting
match for his son. He had not given much
consideration to the question whether the
young people loved one another or not.
If he thought at all of their respective
characters, it was to reflect that Agatha's
energy and decision of character would
weigh well in the balance against his son's
dreamy, unpractical ways.

Last, but by no means least, factor in
this problem was Margaret Shuttleworth.
Neither heiress nor gently born, the only
resemblance her circumstances bore to
those of Miss Flintoft lay in the fact that
she, too, was an only child. Her father

(her mother had been dead many years)
was a weaver ; one of the many men who
some ten years before had come from the
surrounding villages to work in the cotton
factory, which was then a complete innovation
in that part of the country, and is
still the only one for miles around. Margaret
was a child when her father first settled at
Ash Fell, and she had always been his
companion in his rambles on the moors and
hills, in which he employed the greater
part of the time which was not spent in the
mill. In this way she had met Eustace,
who was also addicted to ramblings amongst
the hills. The boy and girl might almost
be said to have grown up together, and as
they grew older the brotherly and sisterly
feeling which had always existed between
them gradually changed its character, with
the result which has been seen. Eustace,

who during the twenty-four years of his
life had obeyed his father implicitly, when
at last commanded to take the most important
step in his life and get him a
wife, refused the well-born damsel his
father had chosen for him, and announced
in decided terms his intention of marrying
the other companion of his youth,
Margaret, daughter of Ben Shuttleworth,
the weaver. The result has already been
described.

Eustace knew, when the door of his
father's house closed behind him, that he
had left his home for ever. He knew that,
if he persisted in marrying the woman he
loved, his father would never relent, but
would carry out his sentence of banishment
for life to the letter ; but he did not flinch.
In proportion to his habitual want of
stability and weakness of purpose was his

present fixed determination to have his
own way in this matter. He had counted
the cost, and was prepared to accept the
consequences of his defiance to their full
extent. When he left his father's house,
therefore, he went straight to the cottage
where Margaret lived. He told her all that
had passed between his father and himself,
overruled her scruples as to how far she
was justified in being the occasion of a
quarrel between father and son, and finally
won her consent to the publishing of the
banns for the first time on the following-sunday.


A month later the Squire received a
communication from his son, containing a
formal notice of his marriage with Margaret
Shuttle worth.

Mr. Terry read the notice composedly.
He was alone breakfasting when he received

it. After breakfast lie sent for his lawyer,
and a week later Eustace had no more
legal claim ujDon his father than the most
complete stranger.

CHAPTER II.

*' Men do not think of sons and daughters when
they fall in love."

Ten" years had passed since Mr. Terry
disowned his son, and Eustace lay upon
his death-bed. Two years before his wife
had died, and Eustace, too weak and broken
to survive the loss long, had wandered
from one place to another, taking with him
his little girl, named Margaret after her
mother, and finally returning to the place
where he had buried his wife, had settled
himself there to die.

He was lying in bed, looking very feeble ;
the most casual observer would have seen

that his last moments had come. The
doctor who had attended Mrs. Terry
through her last illness was seated by
the bedside, receiving the dying man's last
instructions. Eustace held a letter in his
hand, about which he was apparently
speaking.

You will post this, please, as soon as
possible after I am gone. You will be
doing me a great kindness. It is to my
father. Ten years ago, when I married, we
quarrelled, and we have held no communication
since." He paused a moment for
breath, and went on, " My little Margaret
will very soon have no other living relative,
and I have written to tell him I am dying,
and to ask him to receive her. I do not
think he can refuse, though I feel keenly the
humiliation of having to make the request ;
but it is the only thing that can be dono

for her. All my things will, of course,
belong to her ; I have no money to leave
her. The woman of this house has kindly
consented to let the child remain here until
she hears from her grandfather. I think
that is all''

' Pardon me, Mr. Terry*' said the doctor
quickly; * did I understand you to say that
mj little friend Margaret is to remain here
alone ? *'

"Yes; I am afraid she will he very
miserable, but it is the only place there is."

You must let me take her home with
me : she will be better among my little ones.
Nay, I will take no refusal ; it is a settled
thing."

"You are very good," said Eustace,
feebly ; - I cannot thank you sufficiently for
all your kindness." He was interrupted
by a violent fit of cou.'hino-, which

exhausted him ; when he had rested a few
moments, he went on 

-' Now, will you call Margaret ? I must
see her*'

In answer to the doctor's summons a
little girl entered the room. She was tall
for her eight years, and her golden hair
shone in the sunlight.

Does papa want me ? " she inquired.

Yes," said Dr. Turner ; and S'oino: from
the room, he left father and daughter
together.

Eustace talked to the child for a longtime.
She knew her father was dying, and
her face wore an expression of sad gravity
mingled with awe. At the end of an hour
she was told to call Dr. Turner, and a few
minutes later Margaret was an orphan
alone in the world.

Dr. Turner took her home with him, and

she stayed with his family until a letter
came from her grandfather, stating his
willingness to take her into his house, and
requesting that she might be sent to Ash
Fell on the following day.

Margaret, then, was sent to Ash Fell to
her father's old home, to live with the
grandfather with whom she already felt a
certain degree of familiarity, having often
heard his name from Eustace, and in the
latter days many details concerning his
character and the place where he lived.

I have said that Mr. Terry expressed
his willingness to take charge of Margaret ;
the word was misapplied. He did it most
unwillingly. He had got his son's letter,
and for a day or two afterwards had felt
no hesitation as to how he should act. He
had certainly no intention of adopting his
granddaughter, the child of " that woman "

whom Eustace had married in spite of his
commands. How did he know that the
child's parents were really dead, and that
it was not all a plot against him ? Second
thoughts, however, convinced him that his
son must be dead ; and after fighting
against the conviction, he began to realize
that the child possessed neither parents
nor any living relative besides himself
(Ben had died two or three years before).
It seemed that he would have to maintain
her, in any case. How should he dispose
of her ? His pride shrank from the idea
of sending her to school, and letting the
heiress of the house of Terry distinguish
herself by manners and customs pertaining
to a mill hand : the child, he thought, was
sure to resemble her mother. He came at
last to the conclusion that there was
nothing for it but to have her at the Hall,

and lie reluctantly wrote to Dr. Turner to
that effect.

It was a beautiful June evening when
Margaret was set down on the platform of
the little station at Ash Fell. Dr. Turner
had told her that some one would meet herat
her journey's end, and she looked
inquiringly round as she stood by her box,
when the train had moved out of the
station. She saw no one, however, and so
allowed her attentions to become absorbed
in the contemplation of a pony-carriage
standing just outside the station. She was
wondering whether her grandfather Avould
keep such pretty ponies, when she heard a
voice far above her saying 

Dear me ! is this the child who is to
come to Mr. Terry's ? "

Margaret looked up, and, child though
she was, she shrank from the tall woman

who stood looking down upon her through
her gold-rimmed eye-glasses.

It was Agatha Flintoft who had spoken,
or rather Agatha Entwistle, for a year or
two after Eustace had left home, she had
bestowed herself and her fifteen thousand a
year upon the Church, as represented by
the bachelor vicar of Ash Fell. She was
now the vicar's wife, and, as such, ruled her
husband and the parish with a high hand.
It was strange that she should be the first to
address Eustace's child ; perhaps it was not
so strange that Margaret should shrink from
the tall woman with sharp features and
harsh voice, who stood before her. Nevertheless,
she answered with grave directness 

'' Yes, I am Margaret Terry. Has anyone
come to meet me, please ? "

Mrs. Entwistle glanced around the
station, saying 

VOL. I. 2

' It would seem not."

Then turning to the railway company in
general, she inquired whether any one had
come from the Hall to meet Miss Terry.

She was assured with promptitude that
no one had been, so she turned to Margaret
with a shrug of the shoulders.

It seems no one has come, child. I
am driving past the Hall, and will take
you with me ; but your box must be sent
for. I cannot have it in the phaeton."

And in spite of this generous offer,
Margaret still shrank from her.

They reached the Hall in about a quarter
of an hour. Mrs. Entwistle did not
alight, but handed Margaret over to the
care of the housekeeper, with a brief explanation
of how she had met the child.

Margaret was led through passages which
appeared to her numerous and of great

length, to the housekeeper's room, where
she was bidden to rest and partake of the
tea provided for her. When she had
finished, the housekeeper took her into the
little bedroom which had been provided
for her, and subjected her to a tidying
process. The short, waving, golden hair
was brushed afresh, the yale little face
bore the application of soap and water, and
then she was pronounced to be ready.

Margaret had been very silent all this
time; now, however, she looked up into
Mrs. Fenton's face, and said 

Where is Mr. Terry ? Papa said I
was coming to live with him."

You are going to see him now, my
honey," said the kind woman ; and taking
the child by the hand, she led her away
to the library. '' I have brought Miss
Margaret, sir, as you sent word," said Mrs.

Fenton when she and her iwotegee stood
within the room.

Mrs. Fenton was not a person of tact, or
she would have chosen some other way of
introducing the child to her grandfather.
The name " Margaret " only served to recall
the woman who was the cause of the child's
being there at all.

Mr. Terry evidently felt it so, for his
eyebrows met in an ominous frown as he
lowered his newspaper to greet his visitor.
The frown deepened as he looked the child
over from head to foot, and asked 
" When did she come ? "

It seems there was some mistake about
the train, sir, and no one went to the
station; but Mrs. Entwistle happened to
be at the station, and she brought missy
up.

She had seen that her master disliked

her previous mode of leaning the child,
nd, old and privileged servant though she
was, she did not venture to repeat the
offence.

Mr. Terry nodded.

You may go, Mrs. Fenton," he said.
' Leave the child here ; I will ring when
I have done with her."

Mrs. Fenton went away, and the squire
and his grandchild were left alone.

For a few moments the old man sat in
silence. After a pause, he beckoned to the
child, saying 

' Come nearer to me  quite close."

Margaret came and stood on the hearth-rug,
at the side of her companion.

Not there, child ; in front, where I can
.see you," he said harshly ; and, taking herby
the arm, he placed her immediately in
front of him.

Then, still keeping his hold on her arm, he
leaned forward and narrowly scanned every
feature of the face before him. Margaret
bore the scrutiny in silence, looking with
her candid, childish eyes straight into the
old man's face. Unconsciously he tightened
his hold on her arm, until she made an involuntary
movement to free herself, saying 

'' Please, let me go. You hurt me when
you hold me so tight."

The sound of her voice seemed to break
the spell. Mr. Terry let go her arm, and
with a short laugh threw himself back in
his chair, while his eyebrows lowered more
darkly than before.

What he saw before him only increased
the anger he already felt against his
granddaughter. Had Margaret resembled
her father, the squire might have tolerated
though he could never have loved her.

But in face and form she was her mother's
daughter. The childish voice even sounded
like an echo of Margaret Shuttleworth's
clear, full tones. Nor did the likeness cease
there. Her very name was that of the
beautiful weaver who had lured Eustace
from the paths of filial duty and obedience.
There was but little chance that a personal
interview with her would soften Mr.
Terry's heart towards his granddaughter.

The old man threw himself back in his
chair and remained silent, gazing out of
the window. He was considering what he
should do with Margaret, now that he was
unavoidably burdened with her. He would
never endure her in his presence, and he
had decided not to send her to school ;
neither could she live in the housekeeper s
room. It seemed that she must be educated
at home. He could not, however, endure

the thought of having a governess in his
house  governesses invariably made mischief
wherever they went. He would
engage a tutor, some young man, small
matter whom, provided he could read and
write, and would keep the child out of his
way. He would advertise in the Times,
that would give him least trouble.

So far he had got in his meditations,
when he was startled by the sound of a
clear small voice, which said 

I am so tired of standing ; may I go
now, please ? "

He turned round with a start. Though
he had been thinking of the child, he had
utterly forgotten her presence. Now he
felt a kind of shock at the sight of
her.

I thought you were gone"' he said.
'' Ring the bell."

Margaret obeyed, and directly afterwards
Mrs. Fen ton appeared.

You may take the child away," said
lier master. '' I have a few directions to
give about her. I wish that her name may
never be mentioned to me. I want to
have no more to do with her than I am
obliged. Keep her out of my sight, and
tell the servants she is to be called ' Miss
Terry'"

Yes, sir," answered Mrs. Fenton.

I shall engage a tutor for her," he
went on. " She will live with him upstairs.
Those rooms mr. Eustace had in
the east gallery may be put in order. Let
the child remain there till her tutor
comes."

Yes, sir," again said Mrs. Fenton.

That is all," he concluded ; and Mrs.
Fenton withdrew, taking Margaret with

her, and feeling it very hard that the sins
of the father should be so visited upon the
child.

The following day the rooms in the east
gallery, consisting of a sitting and two
bedrooms, were swept and garnished, and
Margaret was installed in them in solitary
dignity.

That same day Mr. Terry advertised in
the Times for a tutor for his errand-daughter.


CHAPTER III.

A fine young man,
. . Although the sun of youth
Has shone too straight upon his brain, I know,
And fevered him with dreams of doing good."

In one of the suburbs of London, in a
handsomely furnished room, sat a lady
engaged in plain sewing. Near her sat
two little girls, aged respectively six and
seven years. One, apparently the eldest,
was hemming a pocket-handkerchief, and,
to judge from the puckered, sorrowful little
face and the long piece of work which
bore signs of frequent unpicking, the
pocket-handkerchief was a source of trouble
to her.

The younger girl was ostensibly doing a
tiny addition sum, but the slate, which
was held well hidden from the eyes of her
mother, was covered with drawings of
birds, beasts, and men. The elder child
kept steadily at her work, though now and
then she heaved a little sigh of sorrow;
the younger was continually looking out
of the window into the sunny garden,
though she never committed such a breach
of discipline without first stealing an
interrogative look at her mother.

Mrs. Welford was, however, too much
occupied with her own thoughts to give
her customary meed of attention to her
little girls, and so Elsa's frivolity and
Madge's sulkiness escaped remark for
once.

Mrs. Welford's thoughts were very dismal
and unhappy, and, if she had uttered

them aloud, would probably have run
something like this :

What new craze has that boy got into
his head now ? It seems no use arguing
him out of one folly, for he is sure to run
straight into another. For the last three
months he has been raving about the
education of girls, abusing what he calls
the ' criminal methods ' now in vogue, and
imploring me to hand over Madge and
Elsa to him." Here she looked up, and
seeing that Elsa's attention had wandered to
the garden, sternly requested her to draw
down the blind. " But I think I know
better than that. It is all his father's work.
He indulged Philip frightfully, and let him
read what books he chose : this is the result."

She paused for a moment to examine
Madge's sewing, and then went on thinking.

Instead of turning his mind to some

useful profession  for though he is under
no necessity to work for his living, a man
should always have some settled occupation
he has taken it into his head that he hasa
vocation for bringing about what he calls
"the higher education of women," and
Margaret encourages him in it. He has
begun to talk about getting a post as tutor,
or setting up classes for girls. Heaven
knows where it will all end ! He will
break my heart. The education that was
high enough for me is high enough for my
daughters, I imagine. He has been so
strange and reserved all this week, he can
only be meditating some fresh plan. Surely
that was his ring. Madge, go and open
the door for your brother."

Madge obeyed, and soon returned,
followed by a young man, who came toward
Mrs. Welford, saying 

Good morning, mother ! It was so fine
this morning, I could not wait for the
family breakfast, but set off for a walk into
the country. I was miles away by eight
o'clock."

Mrs. Welford glanced at the clock, which
at that moment struck twelve.

Have you been walking until now ? "
she asked, with a tinge of sarcasm in her
voice.

No ; I have been with Aunt Margaret
for some time. I had some news for her,
and I want to talk it over with you now."

Always your aunt before your mother,
Philip. You are greatly wanting in respect."
"It is not that, mother," said the young
man, his face clouding. " I was coming
home, and met the postman close to Aunt
Margaret's, and I naturally went in to her
first."

I want no excuses," she said, displeased
and jealous. Her only son, who would
have loved her if she would have let him,
had always chosen her sister as his confidante
in preference to herself. Mrs.
Welford had not the confidence of her
children, and she knew it.

And what is this letter you were going
to tell me about ? " she asked at length.

Philip looked at his little sisters.

Let the children go," he said, " and
then we can talk quietly."

Madge and Elsa received permission to
put away their work, and in five minutes
Philip and his mother were alone. Philip
was just drawing the letter of which he
had spoken from his pocket, when his
mother rose in her calm, deliberate way,
saying

"You must wait a moment, Philip; I

have something to tell cook. I shall not
be long."

Philip, ever attentive, crossed the room
and opened the door for her ; then returned
to the fireplace, and, leaning against the
mantelpiece, began to whistle.

He was a fine, tall young fellow who had
attained his majority some months previously.
His figure was slight ; though he
had broad shoulders, he did not look as if
he would ever be a stout man. His face
was thin and dark and eager, and the
extreme mobility of his features suggested
what he in fact possessed, a quick and fiery
temper. His forehead was that of a thinker ;
his grey eyes, so dark as to be almost black,
were singularly quick and penetrating.
The mouth and chin were good.

Philip, as he leaned against the chimney-piece
and looked out of the window, of

YOL. I. 3

which he had drawn up the blind on first
entering the room, unfolded the letter he
had taken from his pocket, and began to
read it, and as he read his face hardened.
He knew that his mother would be violently
opposed to the step he meant to take, and
he felt he should require all his own most
convincing logic, and his aunt's most
soothing words, to overcome her objections.
But he had no fear as to the result.
Latterly, he had had many trials of strength
with his mother, and the victory had
always remained with himself.

At this point Mrs. Welford re-entered
the room. She did not speak until she
was seated in her own particular chair,
and had taken up her sewing, then she
said 

Now, Philip, I am at liberty to hear
what you have to say."

Yes. ' There was a pause of some
minutes' duration, then he went on. " You
know that I have been talking for sometime
about education. I believe I have
found out where the fault of the present
system lies. I think I can point out why
it is that our women are so frivolous, so
little to be trusted in serious matters."

Considering to whom you are speaking,
I regard your words as strangely wanting
in respect," said Mrs. Welford, frigidly.

Philip's eyebrows contracted. He never
talked long with his mother without losing
nis temper.

You know I am not alluding to you in
any way, mother. I mean the generality
of girls one sees nowadays. Take the
average schoolgirl, for instance, and tell
me how fer the training she receives at an
average boarding-school "

Mrs. Welford waved her hand.

Spare me all that, Philip," She said.
'' You have expressed your views on that
topic very often at great length ; my
memory stands in no need of refreshment."


I have spoken, too, of getting a post as
tutor, or work of a similar kind." (Mrs.
Welford smiled derisively, and yet her
heart began to beat more quickly ; she had
a vague idea that her son's words might
be tending to deeds at last.) " A few
days ago I saw an advertisement in the
Times ; a tutor was wanted for a little
girl of eight. I answered the advertisement
; my application was successful ; the
post is mine."

Philip paused. Mrs. Welford sat silent ;
but, as Philip said no more, she felt constrained
to speak. She therefore asked

Am I to understand that you have
accepted a situation as tutor ? "

Yes."

She did not speak for some little time.
She had never really believed that Philip
would carry out the project which she
knew had long been half formed in his
mind. In thinking over the matter to
herself, she had always been filled with
righteous indignation against her son ; but
when it came to the point, when she found
another preferred before herself as her
son's confidante, her indignation was
changed to disappointment, and for the
moment she could not speak. When she
did her voice was not quite steady, and she
spoke in a lower tone than usual.

I do not know whether to be surprised
at what you tell me, Philip. You have
talked about this kind of thing very often

of late, but I was hardly prepared to find
you so indifferent about acting in opposition
to my wishes. I have no legal right
to prevent you from taking this step, but I
thought that would have inspired you with
greater respect for the moral obligation
you owe me. The position of the man of
a family determines that of his sisters or
other relations, and the future of your
sisters has to be thought of as well as that
of this unknown child, to whom you are so
willing to dedicate your time. I had
always looked forward to your filling a
very different position in life from that of
a tutor, and if you persist in this plan it
will be a great disappointment to me."

While she had been speaking, Philip
had abandoned his position in front of the
hearth, and begun to pace up and down
the room. His mother's words were not

without effect ; that is, though he was resolved
not to give up his plan, he began to
see that it was not a matter concerning only
himself. A feeling came over him that to
a certain extent his mother had a right to
feel disappointed ; and just at the moment
when he was going to offend all her
prejudices, he realized how dear she was
to him, and how it hurt him to set aside
her wishes.

Mother," he said suddenly, pausing-near
her and impulsively laying one hand
on her arm, " I am sorry if you are disappointed.
I do not want to vex you ; but
you would not have me lead an idle life.
You condemn all young men who waste
their time in that way."

No one hates idleness more than I do ;
but teaching is not the only profession
open to a young man. Why will you not

study for the Church or medicine ? In
either of those professions you might earn
distinction, which you never will do as a
tutor."

Unfortunately, Mrs. Welford had not
been able to keep entirely out of her voice
the contempt she felt for the profession her
son wished to adopt, and the slight conveyed
in her tone roused Philip's anger.
His colour was deeper than usual as he
replied 

Public distinction one may never earn,
but the distinction that lies in training a
child to a high ideal in life, may be won
by any teacher."

I do not see," said his mother, a half
smile parting her lips, " how you are to
inspire any one with a high ideal when
you disobey your mother's wishes."

Ah, mother ! you see after all it lies

with you to make or mar my career. How
could I succeed without your approval, and
you will not let me fail when I might
succeed ? "

Philip, as he spoke, bent and knelt on
one knee by his mother, and looked up
into her face with his fine dark eyes. He
was, and always would be, her favourite
child. From his childhood she had always
given way to him, and though this last
freak of his was more distasteful to her
than any other one had been, she felt that
she could not withstand him. She laid
her hand upon his hair, and her hard
mouth relaxed into a smile, as she replied 

The old story, Philip ; you take unfair
advantage of me. It is a pity you will
not go into the Church. You would get
whatever you chose from your congregation."


Long experience had taught Philip to
know the precise point in a discussion at
which his mother Yielded to him, and now
his only answer was 

"Thank you, mother. If it is not in
every way a most desirable post, I promise
you I will not stay."

The fight was fought, and Philip was
victor. It had always been so. His mother
made a valiant resistance at first, but
always yielded in the end. Philip told
her where he was going, and they spent
half an hour talking over it, and parted
the best of friends.

Philip journeyed to Ash Fell the day
but one following his discussion with his
mother. He was full of hope, and though
he understood the importance of what he
was doing, he Alas not afraid of failure ;
whence, perhaps, arose his success.

It was not a month since Mrs. Entwistie
had driven Margaret up to the Hall, when a
dogcart stood at the station, waiting for the
train by which Philip was travelling. It
was not many minutes late, and the
numerous clocks about the place were
striking six as the dogcart drew up in
front of the Hall.

Philip asked for Mr. Terry, and was
shown into the library, where the squire
sat writing. For a moment the old man
seemed at a loss to account for the presence
of his visitor, but he recollected himself,.
and apologized for his forgetfulness. He
asked Philip to join him at dinner.

I want you to understand the position
you will occupy here." He paused a
moment, and then, reflecting that sooner
or later Philip must hear of Margaret's
parentage, he went on to give in a few

words alae reason for his presence in his
house. " You and I shall not meet often,"
he concluded, " but when we do, I do not
wish your pupil's name to be mentioned tome.
I desire to hear nothing about her.
She must be educated, and with that view
I have engaged a tutor for her."

Dinner was finished almost in silence.
Mr. Terry, being accustomed to live alone,
seemed to have forgotten his companion's
presence. At last they rose from table.

Why did you select me for this post ? "
asked Philip, as they parted.

Your application reached me the first."
He had rung as he spoke, and to the
servant who answered the bell he said,
Show Mr. Welford to his rooms."

Philip followed the man till he came to
a door, at which he knocked.

"Come in," said a childish voice; and

the man, pushing open the door, announced


Mr. Welford, miss."

Philip, as he entered, saw a child's figure
rise from the window-seat, and a little girl
came forward and held out her hand shyly,
saying 

How do you do, Mr. Welford ? "

Philip, with Mr. Terry's harsh words
still in his ears, felt a rush of pity at the
sight of the child sitting alone in her
black frock in this large gloomy room,
for it looked gloomy just then. He
bent down and kissed the child's forehead,
asking 

Are you my little pupil ? "

Yes," said Margaret. " Mrs. Fenton
told me you were coming."

Who is Mrs. Fenton ? "

' The housekeeper."

Philip had now seated himself in the
window, and, drawing the child to him, he
began to talk to her. They talked until it
was time for Margaret to go to bed, and
Philip was left alone.

He sat still in the window-seat, looking
out into the soft summer gloaming and
thinking of his new circumstances. Mr.
Terry's behaviour seemed to him in the
last degree heartless. Margaret he thought
the most charming child he had ever seen,
and her old-fashioned name, having no disagreeable
associations for him, struck him
as very pretty. He was glad that he
should have his little pupil all to himself,
though he could not like the reason which
had been given for the arrangement. From
the window where he sat, he could see
through the trees the chimney of the
obnoxious cotton-mill; and Margaret, in

child-like innocence had told him, " That
chimney belongs to the mill where mamma
worked before she married papa. She was
called Margaret, too."

CHAPTER IV.

Golden-haired,
Grey-eyed, and simple.

* * *

A very maid, yet fearing not for aught."

It was a still afternoon in July. The sun
shone hotly down on the country round
Ash Fell, ripening the corn and turning
the apples from green to red or russet
brown. Ash Fell Hall slept in the sunshine
; nearly all the blinds were drawn ;
no one was moving in the gardens or about
the stables.

Along the road which wound past the
Hall in one direction on to the moor, in
the other through the village of Ash Fell

to the neighbouring town some four or
five miles distant, a man and a girl were
riding. They rode very slowly : it was
too hot to make rapidity of movement
desirable, even had it been necessary. Xo
one but Philip Welford could own that
dark, thin face, with eager, restless eyes
and mobile mouth. He is ten years older
than when we saw him last; the enthusiastic
youth has merged into the
earnest, thoughtful man, but the expression
of his face is not much altered.

The girl at his side, then, must be
Margaret, whom we last saw as a child of
eight, shyly welcoming her tutor. It is
more difficult to recognize her, for the
pretty child has developed into a stately
maiden of eighteen, who certainly has but
little of the appearance of an ordinary
schoolgirl. If the object of Philip's system

VOL. I. 4

of education was to produce a young lady
who should bear little outward signs of the
general type of girlhood, he has admirably
succeeded. Margaret looks a year or two
older than she really is, but this is probably
as much owing to her tall, splendidly developed
figure, and the dignified, graceful
carriage of her head, as to the thoughtful
expression of her face. Her hair is like
her mother's, yellow as gold ; her eyes,

*' Too expressive to be blue,
Too lovely to be grey,"

look steadfastly out from under her level
dark eyebrows ; her complexion, slightly
flushed with exercise, is no whit less
delicate than when she was a child ; her
mouth is no rosebud, but the lips are red
as coral, and though their general expression
is rather grave than gay, she is laughing
at present.

I wish we did not always meet Mrs.
Entwistle when we go out," Philip was
saying ; '' the mere sight of her puts me
into an evil frame of mind for the rest of
the day."

And Margaret laughed as she answered.
" You should not look at her, Mr. Welford.
It is foolish to expose one's self to temptation
without necessity."

My dear child," he said, " you are
speaking at random. Have you considered
what the cost of such a step would be ?
Mrs. Entwistle would think I wished to
insult her, and her husband would call and
demand satisfaction. You don't like her
any better than I do."

"I never have liked her. We might
take turns at avoiding her. I thought she
looked at us more superciliously than usual
to-day."

They rode on in silence. They were
returning from town, where Margaret had
been shopping. As Mr. Terry never
allowed her to have any money in her own
possession, she was always accompanied by
Philip, who paid for the things she bought,
and afterwards sent in his bills to the
squire. It was a simple way of doing-business,
and one which gave Mr. Terry
no trouble, it being perfectly understood
that Margaret's expenditure was strictly
limited ; but it was very unsatisfactory to
the girl herself.

Mr. Terry would have had his granddaughter
brought up in complete ignorance
of money matters, had he been able, but
here Philip circumvented him. In one of
his rare interviews with Mr. Terry, he had
been told that in all probability Margaret
would inherit her grandfather's property

at his death. Eustace had been an only
<j;hild, and though Mr. Terry could leave the
property as he would, Margaret was his only
living relative except his step-daughter,
Mrs. Latimer, with whom he had never
been able to agree. It was, therefore,
highly improbable that the old man would
make a will in her favour.

When Philip knew this, he had, in direct
disobedience to Mr. Terry's wishes, taken
upon himself to instruct Margaret as to the
duties and responsibilities of her future
position, as mistress of a large estate, with
fifteen thousand a year at her own disposal.
It did not harmonize with his scheme of
education that the girl should be brought
up without ever having held so much as
ten shillings in her own possession, and
suddenly find herself one of the richest
women in the county. His instructions

had not been in vain. Margaret, having
grown up in the knowledge that one day
most of the country lying for some miles
around Ash Fell would be her own, often
pictured herself in her grandfather's position,
and laid plans for what she would do
in the future.

She was thinking of this now, as she rode
along and saw the dirty children as they
played in the village street or greeted herself
and her companion with shrill cheers
as they passed by. She was wondering
whether the children would be so fond of
playing in the dirt, and the men of
lounging about, when she had instituted
a public gymnasium ; and whether the
women, who stood gossiping at the cottage
doors, would be so hopelessly dirty and
untidy when the village was provided with
baths free of charge.

As she thus mused, she heard a horse
coming along in the direction opposite to
that in which she and her tutor were
going. She looked up. The rider was an
old man, on a chestnut horse, closely
followed by a large retriever. As he passed
he raised his hat in silence ; she, in return,
bowed without smiling; Philip raised his
hat, and then he was gone, and the road
before them was empty once more.

There was Mr. Terry going for an
afternoon ride," she remarked. ' I wonder,"
she went on, after a pause, " what Mr.
Terry does all day ? His life must be very
lonely."

He is used to it," said Philip ; " and
there is the farm to look after, and the
estate, and no end of things to see to ; and
when all these joys pall, there is always
Mrs. Entwistle."

True," said Margaret, half smiling,
'' there is always Mrs. Entwistle."

And with that they rode in at the gates,
Philip helped her from her horse, and they
went indoors.

Meanwhile, Mr. Terry rode on, thinking.
It was not once in three months that he
happened to meet Margaret ; whenever he
did see her, the sight disturbed him. She
was so very like her mother. To-day he
could almost have believed it was Margaret
Shuttleworth he had seen riding along the
village street. The squire had only lately
returned from London, where he had been
spending some weeks, and he seemed to see
Margaret with new eyes. He recognized
that she was no longer a child, but a young
woman, and  he had to swallow the pill,
bitter though it was  a very beautiful
woman. He did not know how old she was ;

he had kept no count of her years, but he
thought she must be sixteen or seventeen.

He rode on until he reached the Vicarage.
He had not meant to call, but Mrs. Entitle,
who saw him, called to him, and he
had to obey. Perhaps the only soft place
in the old man s heart was that occupied
by Agatha Eutwistle. He had known her
since she was a child, and had loved her as
though she had been his daughter  much
more than his step-daughter, now Mrs.
Latimer, with whom he had never been
able to get on, and every one knew it.
When Mrs. Entwistle called to him, therefore,
he turned his horse in at the gate,
and reined up in front of the window out
of which the lady was leaning.

'' Good afternoon, Agatha," he said,
raising his hat.

Good afternoon. I am having five

o'clock tea, and am quite alone ; the vicar
cannot come. Won't yon relieve my solitude?"


I can't refuse," said the old man
gallantly ; " a lady's society is a treat I do
not often enjoy."

You should have Margaret down in the
evening to make tea for you. It is quite
time she left the schoolroom, and saw a
little society."

The squire looked so little pleased at this
suggestion that Mrs. Entwistle went on
quickly 

Now, don't look cross. I called you in
because I want to talk to you about the
girl ; so come into the house and have your
tea in comfort."

She began to pour it out as she spoke ;
and the squire, seeing nothing for it but
to obey, threw his horse's bridle over the

top of a little wicket-gate leading into
another part of the garden, and entered
the house.

I met Margaret this afternoon," began
his hostess, almost as soon as he had seated
himself.

So did I."

She was riding with her tutor. Achates
his name ? Welford," she went on
superciliously.

'' Ay," remarked the squire. The subject
did not seem to possess any particular
interest for him.

How old is Margaret ? " pursued the
lady.

I don't know ; sixteen or seventeen, I
dare say."

She is eighteen," said Mrs. Entwistle,
concisely ; " and at eighteen a girl is old
enough to leave the schoolroom. Margaret

can have done little else than learn lessons
for the last ten years, and even if she is not
very bright, she ought by this time to
know quite as much as her mother's
daughter needs to know."

' How do you know she is not very
bright ? " asked the squire, who always
seized upon unexpected points in a discussion.


Mrs. Entwistle shrugged her shoulders
and raised her eyebrows.

I know nothing about her mental
powers, of course," she drawled ; " but she
is so like her mother physically, that I
cannot but think she resembles her
mentally, and we all know how deficient
the lower orders are in brain power."

Mr. Terry smiled sarcastically.

'At any rate, her mother possessed
sufficient brain dower to successfully plan

out a scheme for getting her child into my
house," he growled.

'' I have only just got back from Scotland,
as you know, and it is some months
since I saw Margaret. I thought her
greatly changed to-day ; she has a much
more ' grown-up ' appearance than I remember
having noticed before. She will
be a very handsome woman."

She is her mother over again," said the
squire, sharply.

So far as I remember, her mother was
a very handsome woman," said Mrs. Entitle,
coolly. " Margaret's is a kind of
beauty that attracts many men, though I
confess she is too big for my taste ; stilly
when she is introduced, she will no doubt
make a great sensation."

The squire was silent, though he looked
displeased. He did not love Margaret, and

her beauty was no source of pride and
delight to him. If she had only had the
delicate, fragile loveliness of the Terres,
instead of the strong, noble beauty of a
daughter of the people, her fate might have
been different.

Mrs. Entwistle looked rather impatiently
at Mr. Terry as he sat in silence. So far
she had not been successful, the squire had
taken her words according to their outward
meaning, and did not seem to consider that
they might have any hidden significance.
Presently she spoke again.

About how old is Mr. Welford ? "

Mr. Terry stared a little.

Upon my word, my dear," he said, " I
have no idea ; I should think from his appearance,
he may be one or two and thirty.
I remember when he first came he told me
his age, but I do not know how long ago
that is."

' Two and thirty," murmured Agatha,
meditatively, " and Margaret is eighteen ; a
susceptible age when one has seen nothing
of the world."

Mr. Terry looked up quickly.

My dear Agatha," he said, and his tone
would have been contemptuous if he had
been speaking to any one else, " are you
going to suggest an attachment between
my granddaughter and her tutor ? Remember
he is in my service; the fellow
can't be so presumptuous as that ! "

Agatha raised her eyebrows again.

'You see, considering who her mother
was, it would not be so wonderful, after
all."

Still, she is Miss Terry."

And will some day be very rich.
Excuse my mentioning it, but we must
always look at things in all their lights.

Some day Margaret will have fifteen thousand
a year. Mr. Welford must be very
short-sighted if he has lost sight of that."

Mr. Terry set down his teacup and
clasped his hands.

This must be seen to' he said, " and
at once. I confess, such a possibility never
suggested itself to me ; it requires a
woman's eye to ferret out these things."

Whether he spoke sarcastically or not
Agatha did not inquire ; she only said 

I am afraid I have made you uneasy,
but these things happen so often. One
can never be sufficiently on one's guard."

You did quite right. I shall speak to
Welford to-night."

Do nothing rash," she said. " I don't
want you to act on the impulse of the
moment, and then to feel that you might
have done better in leaving things alone."

''No, no; I shall not be acting in a
hurry. He has been here quite long-enough
; he shall go in three months. I
shall speak to him to-night."

Mrs. Entwistle, having set things going
according to her wishes, abandoned the
subject of Margaret's future, and she and her
old friend sat talking about matters of local
interest until he rose to go, and rode away,
after thanking Agatha for having put him
on his guard against Philip Welford.

Philip and Margaret spent their evening
in their usual manner. Philip never
allowed his pupil to study at night; she
devoted her evenings to books of a lighter
character, or to needlework.

This evening Philip had been reading
aloud. They were finishing " Felix Holt,"
and during the reading of the last few
pages Margaret had dropped her work in her

VOL. I. 5

lap and sat listening breathlessly. When
Mr. Welford closed the book, she looked
up with the light of enthusiasm shining
in her face.

'That is good," she said. "I do not
know when I have enjoyed a book so
much. How one grows to love Esther.
She would have been miserable if she had
married Harold."

How do you make that out ? " said
Philip.

Their natures were so dissimilar, and
she would have found it out before
long."

But at the beginning of the book their
characters have always struck me as being
strangely alike. If she had not married
Felix, her character would not have developed.
As Harold's wife she would have
made no progress, she would never have

renown what was in herself, and would
have been quite happy."

Margaret shook her head. " The change
had come when she met Harold, or she
would not have given up her claim to him,
and she did not know then that Felix
would ever ask her to marry him."

"True," said Philip, and the discussion
dropped. Margaret took up her work again,
and Philip turned over the leaves of the
book, reading to himself a passage here
and there.

Margaret fell into a dream. She felt very
happy and contented ; she had grown to
love her life. Philip was her friend more
than her tutor. Looking back over the
years they had spent together, she found
only pleasure, and again pleasure in the
retrospect. The presence and influence of
Philip were in every act of her life, almost

as far back as lie could remember. How
pleasant lie bad made those years ! Her
heart glowed with the warmth of friendship
as she thought of him. She could
not think of her life without him ; it would
be very dreary. Looking up suddenly, she-said


It will be ten years tomorrow since
you came here, Mr. Welford."

"Indeed," said Philip, smiling, though
he did not raise his eyes from his book.
Has the time seemed long or short ? "

She laughed. " How can I answer such
a question ? It has been ten years of
tiny life. I don't know whether life goes
quickly or slowly. I want to be certain
about one thing," she went on, after a
lease.

What is that ? "

Don't you remember telling me, when

you lead taught me all you know about
wood-carving "

'' Ah ! " said Philip, interrupting. " You
are not quite certain whether I spoke the
truth when I said I had taught you till
you could carve better than myself. I
suppose it makes one quite dizzy to realize
that one knows more of any subject than
one's teacher."

He spoke in a tone of kindly mockery ;
and Margaret laughed as she answered 

 It is you who remind me of it, not I
you. I was not going to say that at all.
I know you are too sensitive on that point.
What you said was that every girl ought
to be taught some occupation by which she
might support herself, if need were. I am
not sure that I could support myself by
wood-carving. You admire my things,
but you are my teacher. I should like to

know what an impartial judge thinks of
them, and whether they would be bought
if I offered them for sale. How can I find
out?"

Philip laid down his book.

I don't know," he said, " what I have
done that you should lose all faith in my
judgment. Bring the things here, and let
ns look at them."

She left the room, and presently returned,
carrying in her strong, white hands a large
box, which she set upon the table, and
together they emptied it of its contents.
The table was presently strewn with
carvings. There were many things  photograph
frames, book-slides, and numbers of
other articles, both large and small. Philip
examined them carefully. They were
exquisitely carved. Some of the designs
were his, some her own, but in every case

they were carefully and minutely executed ;
a competent judge would have said there
was not only talent, but genius displayed
in the work.

You are very sceptical," said Philip
smiling. " However, to convince you, I
will send some of your things to the dealer
in London who used to dispose of my
carvings. I shall not say anything to bias
his judgment ; I shall tell him to keep the
things, and send me what he thinks they
are worth. I can depend upon his honesty."

When Philip sat alone reading, after
Margaret had gone to bed, a servant came
to him with a message from Mr. Terry, who
requested his presence in the library.

Philip involuntarily glanced at the timepiece.
It was eleven o'clock ; rather an
unseasonable hour, he thought, for an interview.
He told the man, however, that he

would come, and, having finished the
chapter he was reading, closed the book
and went downstairs.

Mr. Terry was writing when Philip
entered the library, but he laid down
his pen and courteously enough requested
the young man to be seated. Then he
plunged straight into the business of the
hour.

I believe," he began, " that my granddaughter
is now eighteen years of age."
Philip assented, and he went on 
It is time she left the schoolroom.
Girls are usually supposed to have finished
their education " (Philip's eyebrows contracted
; the expression was particularly
disagreeable to him) " at a somewhat
earlier age, but "  he hardly liked to own
that he had thought Margaret to be a year
or two younger than she really was ;

fortunately, Mrs. Entwistle's suggestion
occurred to him, and he went boldly on 
' but in my granddaughter's case, I was
willing to prolong her school life that she
might have a better chance of making up
for any natural want of intelligence."

Philip s surprise could not be restrained.

Do I understand you to speak of want
of intelligence ? Margaret is highly gifted
in every way."

"Do you always call her Margaret?"
asked the old man, with a sudden flash of
suspicion.

Of course," hardly knowing whether to
laugh or be angry.

My granddaughter is usually called
Miss Terry."

Philip sat in puzzled silence. He did
not in the least understand the squire's
manner. In all his former interviews,

which did not number more than two or
three, Philip had always called his pupil
by her christian name, and it had never
excited any remark. It would have passed
unnoticed now but for Mrs. Entwistle's-

warning.

However, to return to my point " (" It
is a relief," thought Philip, " to find he hasa
point "), "I was talking to Mrs. Entitle
to-day." (Philip looked up quickly
and almost said, " Ah ! ") " She agrees
with me that it is time Miss Terry should
be introduced into society. I believe that
when you first came here we agreed that,
in the event of either of us wishing to end
the engagement, a notice of three months
was to be given on either side."

Yes," said Philip, rather absently. He
was thinking of Margaret.

Then, you will consider it as settled

that after three months I shall no longer
require your services."

Mr. Terry then went on to make various
polite speeches as to the friendly relations
that had always existed between himself
and Mr. Welford, the confidence he had
reposed in him, etc. To all these things
the tutor made only vague and unsatisfactory
relies, and somewhat abruptly wishing
his employer, " Good night," left the
room.

Philip went upstairs to his sitting-room,
and there threw himself into a chair and
sat thinking.

It had come to this at last. Of course he
had known that sometime Margaret would
be grown-up, and he would have to go.
Nevertheless, when the time did come, he
was foolish enough to feel that it was
rather hard. It was Mrs. Entwistle who

had suggested this, and it was just like
her. Had nothing to the contrary been
suggested to him, the squire would have
allowed Margaret's present mode of life to
continue until his death, with no thought
that any change might be advisable.
Mrs. Entwistle had agreed with him ! "
It was much more likely that he had agreed
with Mrs. Entwistle. Poor little Margaret !
She would hardly have a pleasant life,
spent as it would be in the society of a
man who detested her, with the alternative
of that of Mrs. Entwistle. He hated to
think of it, but it was characteristic of
Philip that he did not think of a marriage
for Margaret as a solution of the difficulty.
He supposed he must tell her. The sooner
she knew the better, but she should have
the next day free from care. It is so much
easier to bear one's grief at night, when

one may creep away, bury one's aching
head in the pillow, and hide in a dark
corner from the eyes of the curious, than in
the morning, when there is a long glaring
day of work and thought before one.
To-morrow, too, was a festival ; she should
enjoy that, the last, in peace. And with
these thoughts running: in his mind, he
went to bed.

CHAPTER V.

Blow, west wind, by the lonely mound,
And namur, summer streams ;
There is no need of other sound
To soothe my lady's dreams."

Philip had said on the preceding night
that the next day was a festival, which
Margaret should celebrate before hearing
that they were to be separated.

It was a very harmless festival, and consisted
of the celebration of the anniversary
of Philip's coming to Ash Fell. They had
observed nine of these anniversaries, this
was to be the tenth and last. The custom
had grown up very naturally. When
Philip had been at Ash Fell a year, Margaret

had asked for a holiday, and had proposed
that they should spend it among the hills.
The same thing had happened on the two
following years, by which time it had
become a rooted article of their faith, and
was never departed from.

Philip was in the sitting-room first that
morning. It was a lovely morning, and he
stood by the window, thinking how Margaret
would enjoy herself.

At that moment he heard a light step
behind him, and, turning, saw Margaret.
He bade her " Good morning," and laughingly
reprimanded her for being late. To
which she made answer 

Do not imagine you were here first. I
have been ready for some time, but I went
into the garden to get these flowers. Are
they not lovely ? " and she held her basket,
piled to the top with roses, for him to see.

Very beautiful," lie said. " Are you
going to put them in water before breakfast
? "

Yes," glancing at the table. " Morris
lias not brought the coffee yet; " and collecting
her pots and glasses round her, she
began to fill them with roses.

Philip, as he leaned against the window
and looked at her, thought she was more
beautiful than any of the flowers she had
gathered. She looked very bright and
happy that morning. She had on a soft
white dress, and had fastened one dark red
rose, with its glossy green leaves, at her
throat. She pursued her work deftly and
swiftly, and had almost finished when
Morris, the schoolroom maid, brought in
breakfast.

"Wait one moment, Morris," said the
girl, " and you can take away these stalks

and leaves with you." Another moment
and she set the glass in the middle of the
table, saying to Philip, "Fresh flowers,
you observe, in honour of the occasion."

They left the house soon after breakfast.
They were going to spend the day at a
place some miles away, famed for its
beautiful scenery, and they carried specimen
boxes, for they were going to botanize.

Quarter of an hour in the train brought
them to Crag Towers. Here they left the
train, and after walking for some time
along the rough, uneven street of the little
town, they turned off into a road which led
through some woods to " The Enchanted
Yalley." 

The Enchanted Valley was approached
by a narrow road, one side of which rose
up in tall cliffs, clothed with trees, while
the other sloped down steeply and then

VOL. I. ' 6

rose again, thus forming a narrow deep
ravine, at the bottom of which flowed a
swift mountain torrent. The valley itself
was shut in by hills on all sides  hills of no
great height, and which were in winter no
doubt bleak enough, but in the summer
and early autumn they glowed with the rich
hues of gorse and heather. Two streams
flowed through the valley, and joined their
waters under an old stone bridge, grey
with age, and overgrown with moss and
creeping plants and ferns.

This valley was a favourite place with
Margaret. She loved to come and sit by the
stream, listening to the unceasing swirl and
murmur of its tumbling waters. Whatever
trouble she might bring to the Enchanted
Valley, she never failed to find peace
within its limits.

When Philip and Margaret reached this

spot, Philip threw himself unto the soft,
thick grass, and Margaret sat down on a
little heathy mound by the side of the water,
and gave herself up to meditation. Some
words from " Wuthering Heights " were
running in her head : " In winter nothing
more dreary, in summer nothing more
divine," and she felt there was no place in
the world so beautiful as her native Yorkshire.
She was so lost in thought that she
forgot Philip, until the rustling of the
leaves of a book roused her, and looking
up, she said 

What book have you got there, Mr.
Welford ? "

Emily Bronte's poems. Shall I read
you one ? "

Do. Her poems were chiefly written
in places like this, and ought to be read
out-of-doors."

Philip turned over the leaves. He did
not seem to find what he was in search of.
Presently he said 

Here are three verses from one of the
poems, which, as you say, might have been
written here. How do you like them ?

*' ' The linnet in the rocky dells,
The moor-lark in the air,
The bee among the heather bells
That hide my lady fair ;

*' ' The wild deer browse above her breast
The wild birds raise their brood ;
And they, her smiles of love caressed,
Have left her solitude.

* * *

' Blow, west wind, by the lonely mound,
And murmur, summer streams ;
There is no need of other sound
To soothe my lady's dreams.' "

When he had finished there was silence.
Margaret sat looking away over the
*' summer streams " on to the hills ; her

face was almost solemn with her intensity
of feeling.

Oh," she said at last, " that is more
beautiful than words can express ! What
one must feel to be able to write that ! Do
sou feel as I do, that when you read such a
poem in a place like this you long to cry ? "

Certainly it stirs the very innermost
depths of one's nature."

Margaret rose, and stood looking into
the water. She had thrown away the rose
that had nestled at her throat, and now
wore a bunch of early heather ; her hat
lay on the ground beside her, and the
sunlight played upon her golden hair.
She was repeating the last verse Philip
had read. The words seemed to have taken
a strange hold of her ; she felt she should
never forget them.

At last they turned to go. They climbed

the hills which shut in the Enchanted
Yalley, and crossed the wide stretch of
open moorland which separated them from
the road by which they had come. It
was not a long walk to Crag Towers, but
it was a most beautiful one. They reached
home about eight o'clock, Philip feeling
he had a hard task before him ; Margaret
with the dreamy happiness still lingering
about her. As she and her companion
reached their sitting-room, she said 

'' I have never enjoyed any of our
festivals like this one. I shall never forget
to-day!"

Later on in the evening, she sat over her
wood-carving. She was engaged on a
work of some size  a hanging bookshelf
for presentation to her tutor on his birthday.
She loved her work ; it was an ever-new
delight to her to watch the design

take shape and grow beneath her fingers.
PhiHj was writing to his Aunt Margaret,
telling her that in three months he should
have finished his work, and would be back
in London.

When he had finished his letter, he looked
at Margaret. He was half tempted not to
tell her that night, she looked so happy ;
but he steeled himself to his task, and,
leaning back in his chair, spoke aloud.

I want to speak to you, Margaret."

She looked up.

Yes ; well, I can listen when I am
carving."

But what I am going to tell you is
rather startling ; you might make a mistake.
I had rather you left off working."

She put down her tools, and, turning
her chair, sat facing him.

Last night," he began, " after you

were gone to bed, I had an interview with
Mr. Terry."

"What had you to tell him?" she inquired,
rather curiously.

Nothing. He sent for me."

Really ? " almost incredulously. " What
did he want ? "

He told me he had been talking to
Mrs. Entwistle."

Ah ! " cried Margaret, uttering the same
exclamation that had so nearly passed
Philip's lips the night before.

And they have agreed that, as you
have attained the ripe age of eighteen
years, it is time you left the schoolroom
and began to go into society. They think
you have finished your education," sarcastically.


She began to see his meaning, and her
face went a shade paler.

And  and what shall you do ? " she
asked hesitatingly, as though unwilling to
have her own fear realized.

''Mr. Terry told me that, after three
months, I shall no longer be required here."

Are you going in three months ? "

I suppose so."

She covered her face with her hands in
silence, while she gently rocked herself to
and fro. It was a habit she had when in
any kind of tribulation.

At first Philip did not speak; but this
lasted so long, that at last he went up to
her, and taking her hands from her face,
he said, half laughing, half expostulating 

My dear child, what is the matter ? "

She raised her eyes to his ; the tears
were standing in them.

Is it true ? " she said. " What shall
I do when you are gone ? "

"You did not surely imagine we were
going to live in this way all our lives ? "

He spoke jestingly. He would not show
his own sorrow, since it would only add
to hers. But there was no answering
smile upon her face, as she replied 

No ; I don't know what I thought, but
I thought you would not go yet. You
might have stayed until I was twenty-one."

She did not cry, but her face was very
sad.

You see, Mrs. Entwistle has decreed
otherwise."

Ah, Mrs. Entwistle ! " she said, energetically
; " it is just like her to do this.
What does it matter to her if I have a
tutor till I am an old woman, if Mr. Terry
does not object ? I am not her daughter."

"If you had been her daughter, you
would never have had a tutor at all " said

Philip, laughing. " We must make the
best of it ; we have three months in which
to say ' good-bye.' "

And after the months are gone," she
said, " how shall I live with Mr. Terry,
who hates me, and with Mrs. Entwistle ?
I always said she was our enemy."

She paused suddenly, and hid her face
in her hands, crying bitterly.

Margaret ! " cried Philip, " you must
not do that. I cannot bear to see you cry.
I hate the thought of going, but you will
make it much worse for both of us if you
cry like that."

"I cannot help it. What shall I do
when you are gone, when there is no one
to talk to, no one to tell me anything ?
Only Mr. Terry, who always looks as if
lie would like me to fall dead at his feet."

My dear girl ! " remonstrated Philip.

He does indeed. He would be glad if
I died. And I have to live with him
instead of you. It is like  nay, there is
nothing to compare it to ; it is too
horrible ! "

Philip laughed at her again, and talked
to her until she had ceased crying, and
had even smiled faintly at some of the
things he said. But she remained very
sad, and soon went to her room, where she
cried herself to sleep, for the first time
since the death of her father.

Philip sat still, thinking. It was a hard
wrench for him to part from Margaret.
She will soon get over it," he thought.

He then turned to his desk to finish the
article he was writing for one of the
current reviews, but his thoughts continually
strayed off to Margaret, and to
speculations as to her future; while his

eyes, instead of keeping to the paper before
him, were for ever roaming round the
room where he had lived for ten years,
taking in its most trivial detail of furniture
or arrangement, and noting everything.
Finally he found it impossible to fix his
thoughts on the consideration of the
Eastern Question, so he left his desk, and
as the clock was striking midnight, he
decided to go to bed.

As he passed Margaret's table, where she
sat when at her wood-carving, he stooped
to pick up something lying on the floor.
It was the spray of heather she had worn
that day, and he picked it up with a
smile, and put it in his pocket-book,
saying 

I will keep this as a reminder of
my little sister Margaret, and of our last
festival."

From which remark we may conclude
that Mrs. Entwistle's hints that Philip
was seeking Margaret's fortune were quite
unfounded.

CHAPTER VI.

Oh, hard that we
Were once so full of all felicity ! "

A WEEK had passed since Philip had
broken to Margaret the tidings of his
approaching departure, and she had had
ample time to reconcile herself to the idea.
That, however, she could not do. It
seemed as though she had not been able to
realize it at first, and every day, by
shortening the time that remained to them,
intensified her sorrow.

It was evening again, and again Margaret
was at her table, busy with her carving.
Philip was out ; he had said he was going

to the post-office, and so she was alone.
She was working diligently, but presently
she laid down her tools, and, leaning back
in her chair, looked round the room with a
loving, lingering gaze. What a dear old
room it was ! For ten years it had been
her home, for she had never left Ash Fell
since she first came there, except on one or
two occasions, and Philip was intimately
connected with both. Twice he had taken
her away during her holidays. One
summer they had spent a month at the
Lakes  that was six years ago ; and again,
two summers ago, they had travelled to
the south of England, and made a walking
tour through Cornwall and Devon. With
the exception of these two months, this
room had been her home since she had
been eight years old.

It was a very pretty room, large and

rather low. The two low, broad-seated
windows looked to the south-east, so that
the room was ever bright with sun. The
furniture had been collected from other
parts of the house : scarcely two chairs
were alike. On either side of the fireplace
stood bookshelves of the kind called
"dwarf," filled with books belonging to
herself and Philip. On the top of each
stood various pots and ornaments, also
owned by both tenants of the room.
Margaret, as she turned her serious eyes
upon the shelves, thought how dreary they
would look when only her books were in
them, and when Philip's share of the pots
was gone too. There was also, on one
side of the room, a quaint old oak cabinet,
black with age, and brilliant with the
polish which Margaret never failed to make
part of her day's work to bestow upon it.

VOL. I. 7

The table at which she was sitting stood
in one of the windows, so that she might
have the full benefit of the light for her
work.

Her gaze, after travelling round the
room, returned to the window, and she
looked out over the trees till her eyes
caught the tall chimney of the mill, where
she had once told Philip " mamma worked
before she married papa."

Margaret was well acquainted with her
mother's history. She knew her exact
social position, and the light in which Mr.
Terry had regarded his son's marriage.
She had a miniature of her mother, and
knew how closely she resembled her. She
knew, too, that to that fact was to be
attributed a great deal of the aversion her
grandfather felt for her. She knew it all
very well ; and during the last two or

three years, since she had been able to
think for herself, the subject of her father's
marriage had occupied a large place in her
thoughts. She had looked at it in all the
lights which had suggested themselves to
her, and she had talked it over with
Philip ; but she had never been able to see
that her father had done wrong.

She knew that she owed her banishment
from her grandfather's presence to the
fact that he was ashamed of her, and the
thought made her heart swell with anger.

She was thinking of this now, as she
sat alone, watching the tall trees sway to
and fro in the evening breeze, and her
thoughts were bitter enough. They ran
somewhat like this :

He has never given me a chance of
showing what I am, or whether I have my
father's character or my mother's ; though,

indeed, he did not know what her character
was. Mrs. Entwistle says he has been
so good to me that I can never repay
his kindness. I do not see it. I was an
orphan, without a penny, and he was my
only relative. How could he do otherwise
than take me into his house ? And, having
done that, how could he do less for me
than he has done ? He has fed and lodged
me, so he does the least of his servants ; and
to not one of them does he pay his wages
with so grudging a spirit as he gives mea
small allowance for my dress. Even that
I might not keep myself: he has treated
me as though I were an idiot or a thief"

She paused a moment in her growing
excitement ; then she went on.

Perhaps I ought to be grateful for the
good education I have had, but not to
him. Mr. Wei ford has given me all that,

and I am more grateful to him than I can
express. He has been here ten years, and
during those years he has spoken to Mr.
Terry four times, twice my name was not
mentioned. He cannot, and he does not,
know what or how I have been taught ;
for anything he knows I have been taught
no more than to read and write, perhaps
not even that. If Mr. Welford had been
an ignorant, rude, rough man, it would
have been the same ; he would have been
here, and I might have lived my life as I
could. It was a mere chance that Mr.
Welford was what he is ; it made no
difference to Mr. Terry whether I was
happy or not ; he did not know and he did
not care. Anything was good enough for
the weaver's daughter. All he cared for
was that he should never be annoyed hy
the sight of me."

Perhaps the only thing Margaret had
inherited from her father was a tendency
to deep fits of depression, when every thing-grew
black around her, and there seemed
no outlet from the gloomy labyrinth of her
thoughts. Such fits came upon her without
any warning, often without any greater
apparent reason than a hopelessly wet
day, or the sight (always an unwelcome
one) of Mr. Terry. Sometimes they only
lasted for a few hours, sometimes she could
not free herself from them for days. She
had tried many ways of lightening the
depression. She would read until her
brain was exhausted, or she would practice
or take up her wood-carving, until her
hands refused any longer to work. Such
thoughts as those just set down only
visited her on these occasions, and then she
could not free herself from their influence.

Then she leaned forward, and, resting
her chin on her hand, brooded over the
thought of what her loneliness would be
when her tutor should be gone. She was
so lost in thought that she did not hear
him enter the room, and she started when
she heard his voice saying 

What gloomy thoughts can authorize
such a gloomy face as that ? "

She turned round quickly.

"What were you thinking of?" he inquired.


I was thinking how desolate this
room will look when all your things are
gone."

Chut ! you must not think of that.
Besides, yours will go at the same time,"
he said. " Remember, you will live downstairs
and be mistress of this house."

True," she said, and a cloud passed

over her face. The anticipation was
evidently unpleasant.

Will this dispel the gloom ? " asked
Philip, after he had looked at her gravely
for a few moments ; and he laid before her
an open letter and five golden sovereigns.

What is this ? " asked Margaret, in
surprise.

'' Read the letter, and you will see."

She took up the letter and read it
through ; then she laid it down, and drew
a deep breath, while she touched the
sovereigns with the tips of her fingers.

They are mine ? T have earned them?"
she eagerly asked.

Philip laughed. " How do you like the
letter ? "

"It is delightful. I shall always keep
it.'

It was a letter from the dealer in London.

He had kept Margaret's carvings, and had
forwarded an order for five pounds in payment.
He said that he had found a ready
market for the things, and that he should
always be glad to do business with Mr.
Welford's friend.

Now," said Philip, " should the need
for it ever come, you may support yourself
in two ways. You may begin life either
as a milliner and dressmaker, or as a
carpenter."

I have not sold any of my hats and
caresses yet," said the girl, laughing. A
moment was sufficient to wrap her in complete
gloom ; a moment was sufficient to
bring back the sunshine to her.

Now," said Philip again, " put all
that away, and let us have some reading.
You must not try your eyes by carving by
lamplight."

She rose and put away her tools, remarking


I wonder what Mr. Terry would say if
he knew that I have just earned five
pounds."

I am afraid," said Philip, cheerfully,
that he would be very much shocked."

Any honest employment seems to-shock
him."

When you begin to live with him,
Margaret, I think you should try to call
him by his proper name. He is your
grandfather."

'' Oh no," she said, quickly. *' I shall
never be able to call him anything but Mr.
Terry ; it would not sound natural."

It is your turn to read," said Philip.

After that, the time seemed to go very
quickly. Margaret felt the weeks flying

past sometimes with a sense almost of terror.
Her grandfather had decided that she had
now power and experience enough to enable
her to tread her path through the world
alone ; or rather, if he had thought about
the matter at all, his thoughts would
probably have taken that direction. She
knew herself very inexperienced, but she
could only acquiesce in the arrangement ;
she was powerless to change anything.

August, September, and October were
gone, and " in the gloom of the cloudy
November " Philip left Ash Fell. Margaret
went with him to the station, and though
her face was very pale, she shed no tears
as she received his farewell kiss, and
watched the train steam out of the little
station.

She walked home slowly. She fell
terribly sad, and she knew she would have

to bear lier sadness alone. When she
reached her sitting-room, she dropped into
a chair and looked yearningly round. The
room looked so empty and desolate, she
could not bear the sight, and went away to
take off her walking things. She had to
pass Philip's room. The door stood wide
open ; two housemaids were dismantling
the room. Margaret had borne the parting
bravely, but the trivial sight of the disordered
furniture seemed to bring straight
home the loss she had sustained. Going
hastily forward to her own room, she
pushed to the door behind her, and, falling
on her knees by the bedside, sobbed as if
her heart would break.

When she returned to the sitting-room,
she sat down by her work-table and, leaning
her head in her hands, gave herself up to
the contemplation of her own situation.

What was going to happen to her now ?
Was she to continue to inhabit this room
alone, or was she going to live with her
grandfather? Her heart beat witch a little
excitement and nervousness. She did not
know what she was to do. Perhaps Mr.
Terry had forgotten her existence ; ought
she to remind him of her presence in the
house. She felt that her position was an
awkward one, and she hardly knew how to
act. She did not want to live with her
grandfather, but at the same time she felt
it would be very dreary to live in perfect
solitude. At last she came to the conclusion
that she would do nothing. What
indeed could she do ? She would wait and
see what Mr. Terry did. It was surely for
him to decide and to make the first move.

Her early dinner was served at the usual
hour. It was the first meal she had eaten

alone for a long time, and the experience
was so unpleasant that she curtailed it as
much as possible. Morris, who had occupied
the post of schoolroom maid ever since
Margaret had come to Ash Fell, observed
the girl's pale cheeks and sad face, and
thought to cheer her by remarking that
Miss Terry would find it lonesome at first
without Mr. Welford, but life was made up
of such troubles, and it did not do to think
of them too much."

Margaret could not help smiling, and
Morris went away convinced that she had
considerably lightened the young lady's
heaviness.

About four o'clock, as Margaret sat by
the fire reading, Morris appeared with a
message from her master, to the effect that
he wished to see Miss Terry in the drawing-room
at half-past seven that evening.

Margaret received the message with composure.
She knew the squire dined at six ;
when he had dined, then, and slept his
evening nap, she was to appear for inspection.


Perhaps," she thought, " he will find
he dislikes me so much that he will send
me up here again."

Shortly before half-past seven she went
to her room, and exchanged the short, dark
morning dress she wore for a long one of
cream-coloured cashmere. She wore no
jewelry, because she possessed none, not
even a locket ; only a plain gold brooch
which had belonged to her mother. Thus
dressed, she looked what she was, a very
beautiful and a very proud English girl.

Mr. Terry was alone when Margaret
entered the drawing-room. He was sitting
in front of the fire, but turned at the sound

of the opening door, and then rose, uncertain
how to greet the girl. He had arranged a
greeting in his mind, but it was intended
for a girl who should enter the room
awkwardly, and be shy and nervous, and
very possibly badly dressed. It struck
even him as inapplicable to this dignified,
self-possessed young lady, who was dressed
with the simple quiet taste of a gentlewoman,
and who walked forward as though
entering her own drawing-room. Being*
thrown off the track he had prescribed for
himself, he was for a moment embarrassed,
and said nothing. Margaret, to whom this
silence was rather disagreeable, broke it by
saying courteously 

Good evening."

Good evening, Miss Terry," replied the
old man, recovering himself. Then he
wheeled forward a low chair for her, and

she seated herself serenely in front of the
fire.

The squire remained standing, and he
looked at Margaret coldly. She did not seem
to notice it ; she was looking at a picture
which hung over the mantelpiece. It was
an original Landseer, and being passionately
fond of animals, she thought it very
beautiful. Her attention was called from
it by hearing her grandfather speak.

I sent for you to-night to speak about
your future life."

Yes," she said quietly, turning her face
to his.

You have finished your education ; you
are a young woman. I believe you are
seventeen."

I am eighteen," she said, looking
straight at him.

For a moment Mr. Terra was silent.

VOL. I. 8

Margaret's words brought back to his mind,
as doubtless they did to her own, a scene
which had taken place some four years
before. Some old friends of Mr. Terry's
had called. They had heard of his adoption
of what they called " poor Eustace's child,"
and asked to see her. Mr. Terry would fain
have said she was out, but at that moment
she crossed the lawn in front of the
window, and he had to ring the bell and
request her presence. She came in, a tall,
beautiful girl of fourteen, with " fearless
eyes and grey," which looked frankly in
the faces of the assembled party. The
squire saw her, and, with a nod in the
direction where she stood, said 

There is my granddaughter, Mrs. Main-waring."


Ah ! " said the lady, turning to the
girl, " she is not like poor Eustace. What
is her name ? "

There was the slightest possible pause,
and then the squire said boldly 
"Edith."

Margaret's face had flushed hotly. Her
grandfather had forgotten her name.

She looked straight at him, and said
decisively 

My name is Margaret, not Edith."
She was very soon sent away, but she
had never either forgotten or forgiven the
circumstance, and the recollection of it was
probably in the minds of both when she
said to her grandfather 
I am eighteen."

Eighteen, then," lie said, after a moment's
silence. " Mrs. Entwistle thinks
you are old enough to be introduced into
society. You will live with me now, and
sit at my table. Mrs. Fenton will give up
her keys to you ; you will be mistress here,"

Am I to keep the housekeeping
money ? " she asked.

It was a simple enough question, yet it
seemed to excite the squire strangely. His
eyebrows lowered, and his face darkened.

What do you mean ? " he asked, looking
down upon the girl, who had taken a hand-screen
from the mantelpiece and now held
it carelessly between her face and the blaze.

Only," she answered, " that all the
money you let me spend before, you did
not allow me to keep myself. I thought
perhaps you could not trust me yet."

Understand once for all," he said, almost
savagely, " that I want to have no more todo
with you than I am obliged. I am at
present obliged to occupy the same rooms
with you, but it will only be until you are
married, and the sooner that happens the
better for you."

She looked up into his face ; she was not
in the least frightened of this fierce old
man.

Thank you for telling me all this ; it is
much better to know how we are to go on."

Later in the evening Mrs. Entwistle and
her nephew, the curate, dropped in. Mrs.
Entwistle smiled upon the girl, and then
withdrew into the background with the
squire, leaving Margaret to the care of her
nephew.

The Eev. Adolphee Entwistle was a young
man of medium height, and slender proportions.
Margaret knew him by sight, but
had never spoken to him. He had a fair
complexion, and the highly arched eyebrows
which always give an expression of distress
and timidity to a face. He was six or
seven and twenty years of age, and had not
been at Ash Fell more than twelve months,

Before his ordination he had been a master
at a large grammar school, and had then
worn a moustache. On taking orders he
had abolished it. Margaret did not know
that; but she wondered, with a kind of
indifferent wonder, what infatuation had
led him to expose the pitiful weakness of
his mouth and chin.

The Eev. Adolphee, however, began to-talk
to her, and she was forced to listen.

*'I suppose now, Miss Terry, you will
take a prominent part in our parish matters.
We are sorely in need of a helping hand,
and will give you a warm welcome."

I do not think parish matters interest
me," she said, indifferently.

"I cannot imagine a young lady not
taking an interest in her parish."

I know very little about such things."

You will, at any rate, relieve my aunt

of the burden of the choir duty. She is
both organist and choir-mistress at present."

I am afraid I can hardly be of use to
Mrs. Entwistle. I cannot sing, and I never
learnt to play the organ."

"My aunt can soon teach you," he said,
eagerly.

"You are very good, to make such liberal
promises for her ; but I could not allow
myself to impose another burden on Mrs.
Entwistle, when she has already so many."

She smiled as she spoke with a kind of
cold malice, and the curate bit his lip. He
was not accustomed to have his own words
turned against him.

In this way the evening wore on. The
Rev. Adolphee hardly left Margaret's side, but
kept up an unceasing stream of small talk,
which wearied her, unused as she was to
that style of conversation. She grew very

tired of her companion, and heartily wished
that he would leave her.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Entwistle was " taking
stock " of Margaret. She eyed her over
from the crown of her golden head to the
tip of the slender, satin-slippered foot, resting
so lightly on the quaint, old-fashioned
footstool ; and as she looked she felt half-jealous
and half-pleased, for she had her
project, though as yet she had confided it
to no one.

She got a few words with the girl before
they parted.

I hear you are going to depose Mrs.
Fenton," she said, with ponderous playfulness.
'' Of course you will be all at sea at
first, but you must always come to me in
your difficulties. I have not forgotten my
first attempts at housekeeping."

Thank sou," said Margaret ; " but I

think I shall manage. I used to spend two
days a week with Mrs. Fenton, learning
housekeeping."

indeed! Was that Mr. Welford's
wish or your own ? "

Mr. Welford's. I did not care about
it.

Soon after they were gone, Margaret
went upstairs. She sat thinking for a longtime
before undressing. How wearisome
the curate had been ! She hoped she should
not see him often. Then she thought of
what her grandfather had said, and her
lips closed firmly together. If he counted
on her speedy marriage with any one who
asked for her, as an easy mode of getting
rid of her, he would find he did not know
with whom he had to deal.

CHAPTER Iii.

The story of her life from day to day."

Margaret's life was a very regular and a
very quiet one. She saw very little of
Mr. Terry : they seldom met except at
meals, and then but little conversation
passed between them. Neither, to her
great relief, did she see so much of Mrs.
Entwistle as she had expected to do. The
only person she did see often was the
Rev. Adolphee, and she seldom passed a
day without meeting him. Either he
called with a message from his aunt, or
she went into the garden, and found him
walking there with Mr. Terry. If she

rode or drove, she was certain to meet him ;
and, as he always behaved in such a way
that to pass by without speaking would
have involved absolute discourtesy on her
part, she spoke to him nearly every day
too.

She had regarded him at first with in-
difference ; but her indifference could not
last long. She began actively to dislike
him, and when she mentioned him in her
letters to Philip, it was under the name
of " my pet aversion." She wondered
sometimes if he knew how she disliked
him, for she did not trouble to conceal her
feelings. In her house she treated him
of necessity with courtesy, but out of doors
her manners were uniformly cold and
distant.

At the same time, her new life was not
an unhappy one. Though she was lonely

Philip's letters served to enliven her. She
received them regularly, and they were
ever a new delight to her. However delightful
was the expectation she formed
of each one, the reality was sure to surpass
the anticipation. He told her a great deal
of his life, and, among other things, that
he no longer lived in his mother's house.
Another letter contained the news of the
death of his Aunt Margaret. She, in her
turn, sent him a detailed account of how
she spent her time. They had been too
long together, and knew each other too
well, for such details ever to become wearisome
or devoid of interest.

She was free to spend her days as she
choose ; her grandfather was too indifferent
to her to care how she employed her time.
Her favourite books remained to her, as
also her wood-carving, and other exercises.

She had ordered that the old sitting-room
should remain as she and Philip had left
it, and she spent much time there over
her carving. She also spent hours in the
large bare room, with the great swing*
windows, which were always open. The
room was at the top of the house, and
Philip had had it fitted up as a gymnasium
for her.

The introduction into society which had
been so much insisted upon on her emancipation
from the schoolroom, had never
taken place. It was now the middle of
January, and as yet she had seen little
more society than when she had lived with
Philip. About this time, however, her
grandfather told her he was going to have
some friends to dinner.

How many people will there be ? " she
asked.

Six, and with ourselves and Entwistle
and his wife and nephew we shall be a
dozen. Larger parties are a mistake."

Who are the people ? "

All men, friends of mine."

Margaret was silent ; then she said 

Why is Mrs. Entwistle coming, if it
is to be a man's party ? I have to be here,
but I do not see "

The squire interrupted her sharply.

I ask whom I please to dine at my
own table. Mrs. Entwistle is like my own
daughter, as she would have been if your
father had not been the greatest fool that

ever lived, and your mother " He

paused, arrested by the look in her face;
then he went on hastily, "I also wish
there should be a lady present to show you
how to behave. I do not choose that you
should disgrace yourself before my friends."

"I think I know how to behave," she
said, coldly. " I was brought up by a
gentleman, whatever my future associates
may be."

On the evening of the dinner-party Mrs.
Entwistle came early. It was her privilege
to behave as though Ash Fell Hall were
her home, and she fully availed herself of
it. This evening she was so early that
Margaret had only just come down to the
drawing-room, and was warming her hands
at the fire. She was dressed almost as
simply as on the evening when she first
sat in the drawing-room. Her dress was
white. She wore deep red chrysanthemums
in her hair and at her throat ; they were
her only ornaments.

Mrs. Entwistle scanned her narrowly.
She herself was gorgeously attired; she
was fond of rich silks and brilliant

colours. Having completed her survey
sbe said 

I have always forgotten to ask who
your dressmaker is, Margaret ; she suits
you perfectly."

I make my dresses myself."

You are very clever. They would do
credit to a professional. Imagine "  turning
to the squire, who just then came in -
Margaret makes her own dresses ! Who
taught you ? "

'' Mr. Welford engaged a dressmaker
who came here. She taught me millinery
and dressmaking."

This Mr. Welford seems to have been
a vara avis'' said Agatha, with a laugh
that was half a sneer. " One does not
generally expect to find tutors who teach
dressmaking. But see, Margaret has no
jewelry. It is absurd to see a girl in her

position without a scrap of jewelry. That
little brooch is too plain for a dinner-party.
Where did you get it ? It is old-fashioned,
but there is something quaint and uncommon
about it."

Margaret involuntarily put her hand to
her throat.

I always wear it," she said. " It belonged
to my mother."

Describing the scene a few days later ina
letter to Philip, she said 

Mr. Terry looked as if he would have
liked to tear the brooch from my dress,
and crush it under his foot."

As a matter of course, he did nothing of
the kind, but said contemptuously 

You are right, Agatha."

Before Margaret had time to reply, the
first guest was announced, and the conversation
could be carried on no further.

VOL. I. 9

The dinner passed off well, though the
squire saw with vexation that it was Margaret
who rose first, and Mrs. Entwistle
who followed her example.

The circumstance made him ask himself
whether an inflexible will was not one of
the qualities Margaret had inherited from
her mother.

I must get her married before long,"
he thought. "If she is going to oppose
me, I shall never stand it."

Alone with Margaret in the drawing-room,
Mrs. Entwistle asked the girl
what she thought of her nephew, the Rev.
Adolphee.

I never think about him at all," said
Margaret, indifferently.

"How is that?"

We only think of people and things
that strike us as being in some way interesting.

Mr. Entwistle does not interest
me in any way."

He is a very good young man," remarked
his aunt, almost to herself.

In what way ? " asked Margaret, with
polite indifference.

How can you ask ? When did you ever
hear of Adolphee doing anything wicked ? "

Margaret smiled. '' Goodness, I think,
consists less in passive abstaining from evil
than in being actively useful and good."

"Well," said Mrs. Entwistle, rather
sharply, " Adolphee is ' actively useful and
good,' as you call it, too. He is most
active in the parish, and a most zealous
worker for the Church."

Again Margaret smiled, though this time
she said nothing.

Mrs. Entwistle did not seem to like the
girl's silence. She fidgeted in her chair,

turned over the leaves of a photograph
album, then closed the book and pushed it
from her ; finally, she said 

You don't make such a friend of
Adolphee as I had hoped you would."

Why should I make a friend of him ? "
Why ? You must sometimes want a
friend and adviser."

Mr. Welford is my friend and adviser."
"But he is not here. Do you never
want instant advice, advice which only a
clergyman can give ? "

The colour came into Margaret's face.
She was innocent beyond the ordinary run
of girls, but she was certainly not stupid.
The constant presence of Mr. Entwistle,
and the continual mention of his name, and
laudation of himself when he was not present,
which she had hitherto regarded as
infatuation on the part of the young man's

relatives, suddenly appeared to her in a
new light, and she said rather haughtily 

This is a strange subject of conversation
to choose, but I am not so dependent
upon other people as you seem to imagine.
Mr. Welford taught me to think and judge
for myself."

She felt angry, and she was not a woman
who used blunted weapons to fence with.

Soon after this the men came in, and
Margaret was immediately pounced upon
by her " pet aversion." This evening she
felt utterly unable to endure his society,
and was very glad when another man came
up and joined them.

The new-comer had taken her into
dinner, and they had had much conversation
together. They had been talking
about a book on manners and customs in
Japan, which had just come out, and which

Margaret had been reading with great interest.
Mr. Barton continued to speak on
the same subject ; he knew the author of
the book, and was giving Margaret some
interesting details respecting his private
life. They took but little notice of the
Rev. Adolphee, and he grew more and more
sulky as he noticed how completely Margaret's
attention was withdrawn from him.
At last he rose abruptly, saying 

T cannot understand what interest you
find in such subjects. Miss Terry. Had it
been anything connected with the parish
here, or even with some missionary society
in India, or one of those countries, I could
better have comprehended your enthusiasm ;
as it is, I fail to account for your interest
in a semi-barbarous people such as the
Japanese."

Semi-barbarous ! " echoed Margaret, in

some doubt as to whether she had heard
correctly. " If that is your idea, I need not
ask if you have read this book."

Certainly not ; such books possess but
slight interest for me. I confess I have
enough to interest me at home ; I know very
little about the Japanese, and care less."

Margaret looked at him for a moment,
and then turned to her companion, who had
been watching the scene with an amused
smile, and said, while her lips curled contemptuously


He knows nothing. Don't you wonder
how any one dare be so ignorant ? "

Every word dropped clearly from her
lips, and though the curate had moved
away to some little distance, it was plainly
to be seen, from the expression on the
reverend gentleman's face, that he had
heard her speech.

Mr. Barton laughed, half with amusement,
half with contempt, as he replied 

Oh, you must not be too hard on him.
Young men of the present day seem to have
lost the taste or the power of reading and
acquiring knowledge."

The following day, when the Rev.
Adolphee called at the Vicarage, he was ina
very bad temper. His aunt received him
alone. She had witnessed the scene in the
drawing-room on the previous evening, and
was displeased with her nephew.

I am angry with you," she said, as
sharply as she ever spoke to him. " If you
obey my instructions so poorly, I shall
refuse to help you at all. What possessed
you to behave as you did to Margaret last
night?"

The Eev. Adolphee played with his hat,
and looked supremely sulky.

*' I don't know what you mean," lie said.

*' Then, you are very dense. Why do
you always behave as though she were
better than yourself? A girl of her
character likes a man who shows that he is
going to be her master. Until you take a
more high-handed tone you will never
make any progress. You talk too much
about the parish and local matters ; that is
another mistake."

What else can I talk about ? " he asked,
half impatiently.

What indeed ! " she might have said,
but she went on. " She is one of those
girls who fancy they like literary men, and
who go in for ' mind.' To gain her goodwill,
you must talk about books and politics
and public questions."

But here the curate rebelled.

Nay," he said, " I cannot do that."

She laughed and shrugged her shoulders.

Then, my dear boy, you must make up
your mind to see her and her future fifteen
thousand a year bestowed on some one
else."

The young man was silent for some time ;
then he went on 

I have her grandfather's consent to win
her ; surely she will not disobey him ? "

You think not ? You are grievously
mistaken. Margaret is one of those women
who will yield nine points of the law without
a word, perhaps for the sake of peace,
or because she holds them of but little
consequence ; but she will cling to the
tenth with all her strength. If her grandfather
tells her to give up rowing or not
to ride out without a groom, she will obey
him ; but if he tries to marry her to a man
she does not like, she will look him straight

in the face with her great calm eyes, and
refuse point blank to obey him."

Do you know," he said, with a half
laugh, " that you are not describing a
particularly agreeable wife ? How if,
when we are married, she should be willing
to do everything else, but should refuse
to give up corresponding with that Wel-ford?"


How do you know she corresponds-with
him ? "

Mrs. Entwistle looked thoughtful ; then
she said 

Come, Adolphee, you must not despair
because you find a little difficulty at first.
Few men in your position have so good a
chance of marrying such a fortune as Margaret
will have sometime. Gro now, I am
busy, but remember what I have said, and
try to act upon it. A woman understands

another woman far better than a man does,
believe me."

The curate went away, hardly knowing
whether he should feel elated or depressed.

A week or two after the dinner-party,
Mr. Terry had given Margaret a parcel,
saying she would find some ornaments in it
which he desired she would wear whenever
they had any guests. Mrs. Entwistle, he
said, had chosen them, so they will sure to
be right.

Margaret took the parcel, merely saying,
Thank you." She put it aside and went
on with her work, only taking it up again
when she went to bed.

Alone in her room she opened the
parcel, and found it to contain several cases.
These she opened, and spread the contents
upon the dressing-table.

They are for ' Miss Terry,' not for me'

she thought as she looked at the ornaments.
I have a certain appearance to keep np as
his granddaughter, otherwise he would
give me nothing. He will never let me
have the Terry emeralds. All of the best'"
she continued, turning over the things
with a sneer which suited her beautiful
face but ill.

She put the ornaments on. There were
earrings, which she tossed contemptuously
aside however, two bracelets, a brooch, and
necklace. When she had hung them on,
she looked at herself in a mirror. " I look
like a third-rate actress," she murmured,
half aloud. Then she took them off, thinking,
" They must have cost a great deal
of money, but they were for Miss Terry
not for me."

CHAPTER VIII.

Go to ! I hate this humble-minded pride,

Self-willed submission to your own pert fancies ;
This fog-bed, mushroom spawn, of brain-sick wits,
Who make their oddities their test for grace.
I . . .
Do otherwise conceive of love. Farewell."

Meanwhile, the Rev. Adolphee's wooing
made but little progress. Margaret was no
more hostile to him than she had ever
been. She had exhausted him, and her
feelings remained unchanged. He bored
her as much as before, but she had lately
begun to treat him with less ceremony,
and left him alone when she could endure
his society no longer. She knew why he

haunted her so persistently, but she trusted
that if she preserved her present frigid
attitude, and never gave him any opportunity
of speaking on the subject, he could
not but see that his suit was unwelcome,
and would retire like a gentleman. She
sadly deceived herself. The more she entrenched
herself behind a haughty reserve,
the more persuasive and fascinating became
Mr. Entwistle's manner. He had persuaded
himself that he was in love with
Margaret, and as it was impossible his
affections should be bestowed upon an unresponsive
object, it naturally followed that
she must love him. Still, he had not the
courage to put his fortune to the test, and
he delayed so long that Mrs. Entwistle was
in a fever of excitement and apprehension.
Margaret's relations with her grandfather
were unchanged. She was coldly polite,

and fulfilled perfectly her duties as mistress
of the house ; he was silent, morose, and
contemptuous. He seldom spoke to her,
and never betrayed any interest or concern
in anything she did or said. She was
therefore surprised when, one afternoon as
she sat in the library writing to Philip,
the squire, coming in, looked at her suspiciously.
He inquired if she had seen
some book he appeared to be seeking, and
on her replying in the negative and turning
again to her letter, he asked abruptly 

To whom are you writing ? "

"To Mr. Welford," she answered, her
surprise visible on her face.

Are you in the habit of writing to
him?"

"Yes."

You will cease writing to him at once.

Why am I to give it up ? "

Her voice was cold. It irritated him,
and he went on 

I should have thought that even you
would have known that a girl does not
correspond with one man when she is going
to marry another."

Margaret's heart gave a great leap, but
she went on quietly 

"Even if I were engaged, I should not
see any reason for breaking ois my correspondence
with Mr. Welford ; but I am not
going to be married  nothing is further
from my intention."

Perhaps not ; but your intentions will
not be consulted. I have arranged a
marriage for you perfectly suitable in every
way, and all you have to do is to acquiesce
m it.

Which I never shall do," she answered,
promptly. Then, more quietly, she went

VOL. I. 10

on, " And who is the man who submits to
have his wooing done for him ? "

Adolphee Entwistle."

And you call that a suitable match forme
? " scornfully.

She had risen, and was standing before
him, looking straight into his face with
her great calm eyes," as Mrs. Entwistle
had foretold. The squire was not above
middle height ; Margaret was a tall woman,
and she stood with her face on a level with
his. She was perfectly cool, and that fact
only served to lash him into a greater rage
than before.

If I had spoken the truth," he said,
brutally, " I should have said he was much
too good for you. His father was a gentleman
against whom nothing has ever been
said, and his mother is a lady of title ; while
your "

He paused, choked with anger. She
went on with simple dignity 

"My father was a gentleman too, and
my mother was a pure and high-minded
woman. The highest lady in the land can
be no more than that."

He is your superior in every way," he
went on, excitedly.

She smiled without speaking, half in
derision, half in contempt, and the squire
repeated wrath fully 

You shall marry him."

You seem to have settled all this in
your mind," she said. " May I ask if you
have spoken of it to Mr. Entwistle ? "

Certainly."

Then you had better tell him at once,
that the sooner he rids his mind of such
folly the better ; he cannot have the
slightest hope of success."

What do you mean ? " he asked
staggered by her perfect self-possession
and determination.

That I will not marry Mr. Entwistle,
or any other man."

You will do as you are told."

On so important a question as marriage
I shall consult my own inclinations. I
shall marry at no one's bidding, and for
no one's pleasure but my own. And now
let us consider the matter as settled."

It is nothing less than settled," he
cried inconsistently ; and he would doubtless
have proceeded to excite himself
further had not a footman appeared upon
the scene, with a message which obliged
Mr. Terry to hurry away.

The old footman had been at the door
for some time before he had been seen, and
Margaret's last speech had reached his ears.

He had, unnoticed, eyed her with approval,
and as he went away he thought 

She's a rare spirit of her own ; ay,
and she'll want it all in this world too.
She'll meet him on his own ground, and
fight as hard as he will, and I doubt it'll
go hard but she'll beat him too."

Left alone, Margaret resumed her seat at
the writing-table, and, leaning her chin on
her hands, looked out of the window, across
the garden, gay with spring flowers, to
where the moor shut in the prospect.
Even now she was calm, except when she
thought of the look on the squire's face
when he had spoken of her mother, and
then her grey eyes flashed with anger.
But she had said that she would not marry
Adolphee Entwistle, and with her the matter
was ended. She was one of those women
who, having once made up their minds to

act as they deem right, can dismiss the
disputed point from their thoughts, for
they know that no consideration will make
them swerve from their decision. Now,
therefore, as she sat looking gravely from
the window, she was not thinking of how
to defend her position, or trying to find
new arguments behind which to entrench
herself, but of the end of the sentence she
had half written when the squire burst in
upon her solitude. When she had found
it she took up her pen again, and returned
to her letter with a mind untroubled by
gloomy forebodings .

Several days passed, during which Margaret
heard nothing of Mr. Entwistle. He
did not come to the house, and when his
presence was withdrawn he ceased to
occupy any place in her thoughts. Mr.
Terry did not address her ; she was absolutely

alone. She enjoyed her solitude.
She spent her mornings in walking and
riding, and many hours at her work-table.
She had written to Philip on the subject,
and received a prompt reply to her letter.
He told her that he did not suppose she
was in any danger of yielding, but if such
a thought should have occurred to her, he
prayed her not to let her resolution falter.
It would be madness and intellectual
suicide for her to marry such a man.

This letter, though it had cheered Margaret,
made her smile. The idea of yielding
was so far from her that Philip's warning,
even though she knew he did not suspect
her of unsteadiness of purpose, caused
her a little amusement.

Sometimes she asked herself why she
stayed at Ash Fell, when she knew she
could support herself whenever she chose

to leave her grandfather's house. But she
shrank from taking such a step. She
knew she was her grandfather's heiress,
and, though she neither loved money nor
cared for the position she would occupy as
mistress of Ash Fell Hall, she still wished
to have that position. Her heart swelled
with anger and her cheeks grew hot with
shame often, as she rode through the
village and saw the state in which many of
the people lived. Mr. Terry was a hard
man, and cared little how his tenants were
lodged, so long as they paid their rents
and had anything like a roof over their
heads.

Only once had Margaret been moved to
address her grandfather on any other
subject than those she was obliged to discuss.
She had appealed to him on behalf
of a man, who had been caught in some

misdemeanour, and, having been sentenced
to prison, was in great anxiety about
leaving his wife and children. She had
begged Mr. Terry to show mercy, but in
vain. She had been told roughly to mind
her own business, and not to meddle with
things she did not understand. She had
obeyed him, and the subject had never
again been mentioned.

Some ten days had gone by since she
had been forbidden to write to Philip,
when Margaret was suddenly reminded of
the existence of the Eev. Adolphee Entwistle
by his reappearance at the Hall. He came
upon her one afternoon as she sat reading
under the huge copper beech on the lawn.
She was feeling very content. Her book
interested her, and the afternoon was so
beautiful it seemed happiness enough
merely to exist. A cloud passed over her

face as the curate came up, but she returned
his greeting with the same quiet courtesy
she had ever shown him.

He drew up one of the wicker garden
chairs to her side, and, seating himself,
began to talk to her. The conversation
might almost have been called a monologue,
it was so completely on one side, her answers
to his questions being of the briefest
description. She half guessed on what
errand he had come, for his manner was
nervous and hesitating, though it occasionally
grew warmer, as if he would advance
to a greater degree of familiarity. She,,
however, never wavered from her attitude
of calm, even politeness, which he must
have felt to be unfavourable to him.
Presently there came a pause, which
lasted so long that Margaret began to steal
glances at her open book, and had even

read through a paragraph, when Mr.
Entwistle suddenly spoke again. This time
it was to ask her to be his wife.

Margaret heard him in silence  an
ominous silence, surely, for she continued
to lean back in her chair and to watch the
two dogs playing on the lawn close by,
neither did her face show any confusion.
When he had finished she did not speak
immediately, and the curate could hear his
heart beat as he waited for her answer.

"From what you have said, Mr.
Entwistle, it seems that you have spoken
to Mr. Terry on this subject."

Certainly. I did not feel at liberty to
address myself to you until he had given
me his consent, and, I may add, his best
wishes for my success."

When was the subject last mentioned
between you ? " she asked, a little curiously.

Yesterday evening."

"Did he lead you to suppose then
that I should give you a favourable
answer ? "

Certainly," in some surprise ; and she
did him the justice to detect the ring of
truth in his voice. " Why should he have
changed his mind ? " he went on.

"He deceived you," she said quietly.
Ten days ago he told me of your intention,
and I asked him to tell you to rid your
mind of such folly at once."

The curate flushed hotly with mortification.


What do you mean ? " he asked.

"We cannot marry," she said, gravely.
We have nothing in common ; we have
never been friends. From what you have
said this afternoon, I imagine that my ideas
of love and marriage are very different

from yours. It would be impossible for us
to marry."

The curate was silent. Such a refusal
seemed decided enough ; he could not put
down such words as she had just used
entirely to maiden coyness, which would
yield on gentle pressure. And yet the
thought that he had failed was intolerable
to him. He thought of the squire, who
expected him to rid him of an uncongenial
burden ; of Mrs. Entwistle, whose eyes were
fixed upon the future, bright with a golden
harvest for her nephew, and he felt he
dare not face these two and tell them he
had failed.

Are you not answering rather hastily?"
he pleaded. "Are you so rich in friends
that you can afford to throw my love
lightly away ? "

She flushed as he spoke. She had not

intended that he should know her candid
opinion of him, but since he would not
take his answer, let the consequences be
upon his own head.

Your love ? " she said slowly, and a
little contemptuously. " Do you love me,
or the money I may one day have, Mr.
Entwistle ? I said just now that our ideas
of love and marriage were different. I had
not intended to speak more plainly, but
you force me to do so. If I ever marry,
I hope my husband will be willing to take
me for my own sake, not for that of my
fortune. Good afternoon."

She turned to her book without trying to
hide her purpose now, and Mr. Entwistle
took the hint and departed, sore at heart ;
while she remained cool and composed in
her place, and resumed her reading almost
before he had reached the gravel path
which bounded the lawn.

So quiet and unemotional had been the
scene between them, that, though two
gardeners were at work not a hundred
yards from the copper beech, they had not
the slightest idea of what was taking place
so near them.

Margaret felt certain that her grandfather
would open the vials of his wrath upon her
that evening ; but though he looked rather
more unamiable than usual, he did not
mention Mr. Entwistle's name. She was
surprised, but said nothing. She had
requested that the subject should not be
mentioned again, and after that could not
herself introduce it.

The next day passed in silence, and the
next. The days went on until a week had
gone by, and still the squire made no sign.
His silence rather worried Margaret. She
knew him too well to suppose that he would

let the matter drop without making ans
allusion to it, and she wished impatiently
that, if he were going to speak, he would
do so at once.

She had not much longer to wait. A
day or two later, the squire came to dinner
with a face even darker than usual. She
boded no good from the fact, and when he
followed her to the drawing-room some half-hour
after she had left him alone, and, seating
himself in his armchair, glared fiercely
at her, she knew her hour was come. She
was working, delicately embroidering a
cambric handkerchief, when his voice
sounded through the room.

Put down that work, and listen to me."

She did as she was desired, and he went
on 

What is this I hear from young
Entwistle ? "

Yes," she answered.

Don't trifle with me, I won't stand it.
Did he make you an offer of marriage last
week?"

"Yes."

And you declined it ? "

Yes, I declined it."

For what reason ? "

I had no wish to marry him."

In spite of what I said to you sometime
ago ? "

I told you then I would not marry him ;
you cannot have forgotten."

'' I have not forgotten, but I lay very
little weight upon your reasoning and your
words. I have said you shall marry
Adolphee Entwistle, and you shall."

I will not marry him," she said, firmly.

Do you refuse to obey me ? "

'' In this case, yes. I will obey you in

YOL. I. 11

anything else. I do not know that I have
ever wished to displease you before, but in
this case I claim the right to act according
to my own judgment."

You claim ! you claim ! " he cried,
furious with rage, and maddened by her
calm opposition. " I should like to know
what right you have to claim anything !
A penniless beggar brat that I picked out
of the gutter, and took into my own house.
I should like to know what such as you can
lay claim to ! I hate your hypocrisy. So
long as it will serve your turn you will
obey me, and think to cast off your obedience
when it clashes with your inclinations.
You think you can lay claim to anything,
do you, when every penny you spend,
every morsel you eat, everything you wear,
has been given you by me. You are
dependent on me for the very air you

breathe, and if I were to cast you off you
would fall back to the beggary from wbicb
I took you."

"No," sbe said, suddenly raising her
head, for his torrent of words had overwhelmed
and stunned her. " I am not
dependent on you ; I am independent.
Do you think Mr. Welford never guessed
that such a day as this would come, or
that he left me without preparation for
it ? He taught me how to earn my living.
If I left your house to-night I could
work."

Work ! " he cried, with an accent of
the deepest scorn. " I should like to see
you work. You have as much inclination
to work as your mother, who fooled my
poor lad into marrying her, and thought
to be mistress of this house ; but "

Stop ! " she cried, her voice ringing

throng the room. "This discussion does
not touch my mother ; be good enough to
leave her name out. If you say one more
insulting word of her I will leave your
house tomorrow."

His face took an expression of fiendish
malignity. He looked at her furiously.
Had she shown the least sign of fear, he
would probably have struck her ; but she
had never been taught to think that a
graceful timidity is becoming in a woman,
and she stood firm and unflinching before
him. He did not dare to strike her, but
looked at her for a moment with all his
hatred of her visible in his face; then
suddenly his face changed, his arm
dropped nerveless to his side, and he fell
insensible to the ground.

The girl's first feeling was of sheer
terror, but she did not lose her self-possession.

Her grandfather had hardly
fallen before she was kneeling at his side,
after having rung the bell.

In her agitation she had rung the bell
violently, and the old footman answered
the summons without delay. He could not
repress a cry of horror at the sight before
him, and Margaret said quickly 

Mr. Terry has had a fit. You must
send one of the grooms directly for Dr.
Hunter, and then come back and help me
to lift him on to the couch."

In a few minutes the old man had done
her bidding, and was with her again.
Together they lifted the squire on to the
couch, and Margaret applied all kinds of
restoratives, but in vain ; the heavy eyelids
were not lifted, nor did the tightly shut
lips unclose. The girl began to think the
doctor would never come, and it seemed an

eternity, though in reality it was but half
an hour, before she heard the grating of
his carriage wheels on the gravel outside.

She rose from her kneeling position ashe
entered the room, and held out her
hand.

"I am so glad you are here, Dro.
Hunter."

*'My dear Miss Terry, this is very
shocking. When did it happen ? "

About half an hour ago," she answered,
looking mechanically at the clock.

Mr. Terry's man was present, and by
Dr. Hunter's directions Mr. Terry was
carried upstairs and put to bed.

Margaret was left alone in the drawing-room,
standing, with fast-beating heart,
looking from one of the windows. She
had not been there long when Mrs.
Entwistle was announced.

My dear Margaret," said the lady,
hurrying to the girl's side, " how terrible
this is ! When did it happen ? "

How did you hear of it ? "

I met the groom as he was coming
back from Dr. Hunter's, and, of course,
came here at once. Where is your grandfather
now ? "

In his room. Dr. Hunter is with him.
I expect he will come down before long to
tell me what he thinks of him."

Were you alone with him when it
happened ? "

"Yes."

"Really, Margaret," wiping her eyes,
how coldly you speak ! One would
imagine that you did not care whether
your grandfather lived or died."

Margaret made no answer, she felt as if
in a dream. At that moment Dr. Hunter

came in. He seemed surprised to see Mrs.
Entwistle, and, after returning her greeting
and answering one or two of her questions
about Mr. Terry, he addressed himself
exclusively to Margaret.

"Your grandfather is conscious now,
though I cannot say how long he will
remain so. It was an apoplectic fit; the
second shock may follow in a few days,
or not for weeks, or even months. He is
quiet, and does not seem to wish to see
anybody." This was intended for Mrs.
Entwistle.

I understand," said Margaret. ' I will
not go to him at present; I think my
presence would disturb him."

"Just as you think best, Miss Terry;
but if you do not go yourself, I must
request that he sees no one else."

He then gave her a few directions, and

took his leave, saying he would look in
again the last thing at night. Soon
afterwards Mrs. Entwistle went home.

Of course all question of Margaret's
leaving Ash Fell was set at rest. She
could not have gone now. Her days were
fully occupied. She had to see many
people, some complete strangers to her,
who came to inquire after Mr. Terry, and
she spent a great deal of time in her
grandfather's sick-room. He hated her
presence, but was too feeble to protest
against it ; he had, too, a dim feeling that
Tier touch was firmer and more gentle than
that of any of his servants. Often, when
she went to her room at night, she was too
tired to do anything more than undress
as quickly as she could and throw herself
on her bed.

Her grandfather had suffered a second

shock a few days after the first, but Dr,
Hunter said months would probably elapse
before the third and fatal one would follow.
Sometimes the old man lay in bed perfectly
still for days without speaking ; occasionally
he dozed or lay with his eyes shut; but
more frequently they were wide open and
followed Margaret unceasingly as she moved
about the room, or fixed upon her as she
sat by his bedside. At other times he
seemed stronger, and could bear to sit
up in bed and hear the papers read to him.
He seldom spoke to any one, though he
often muttered to himself in a low, indistinct
voice. One day, as the doctor was
bending over his patient, he saw that the
old man's eyes were fixed upon Margaret,
who stood at the window, and he heard the
slow muttered words 

Independent is she ? We will see how

far that will go ; I will give her every
chance of keeping up her independence."

So the summer rolled away and passed
into autumn ; dull November, with weeping
skies, clad in grey pall of mist and fog,
held sway over the land, and in November
Mr. Terry died.

The end was very quiet. He had been
sinking gradually for some time, and
Margaret was not surprised when Dr.
Hunter told her one day, that if she thought
there were any people in the village whom
Mr. Terry would like to see round his deathbed,
they should be summoned before night.
She sent to the vicar and his wife, and
then, though with some reluctance, for the
Rev. Adolphee. These people, with Mrs.
Fenton and one or two other old and
faithful servants, stood round Mr. Terry ashe
lay dying.

During the last few days of his illness
his manner had perceptibly altered.
Restless and uneasy, his eyes wandered
round the room and rested continually on
the figure of his granddaughter. He was
powerless to speak, and no one guessed
what he wanted. From the feeble signs
he made, from the troubled sighs which
broke from his lips, no one understood that
he had repented of his hardness to Margaret,
and would fain have been reconciled with
her before he died ; Margaret, least of all,
expected such a change. So he died with
Agatha's hand in his, and with her lips
pressed to his forehead.

CHAPTER IX.

*' All my life
Is open to you. I go hence
To London, to the gathering place of souls,
To live mine straight out."

It was four days since Mr. Terry's death,
and the funeral had just taken place. A
few of the mourners were gathered in the
library at the Hall, waiting for the will to
be read. The party consisted of the vicar
and his wife, the Rev. Adolphee Entitles
Margaret, and Mr. Banks, the lawyer.

Margaret was pale, though perfectly composed
; the vicar looked sedately interested ;
Mrs. Entwistle and the curate nervously

excited ; Mr. Banks was naturally indifferent.


The will was read. Silence had prevailed
during the reading of the document;
silence still prevailed when its contents
had been made known. The will, which
had been drawn up during the first days
of Mr. Terry's illness, was so different from
what they had expected. Mrs. Entwistle
and her nephew had speculated no little on
the results of Mr. Terry's death, but their
speculations had never equalled the reality.

Mr. Terry had left half his fortune, with
Ash Fell Hall and its furniture, to his
stepdaughter, Mrs. Latimer, a woman whom
he had always disliked, as everybody knew.
The other half was distributed in legacies ;
ten thousand to the Rev. Adolphee, some
very handsome sums to old servants, and
the rest to different people. To Agatha

Entwistle he left the Terry emeralds, than
which there were none finer in England.
Margaret's name was not mentioned.

Mr. Banks's broke the silence, and his
professional voice warmed as he said 

This is an unjust will, Miss Terry.
Had my influence with your grandfather
been greater, it would have been different."

Mr. Banks had seen Margaret more than
once during his late visits to her grandfather,
and each time she had found increasing
grace in his eyes.

It does not signify," she said, absently.

He looked away impatiently, and Mrs.
Entwistle and the curate began to exchange
congratulations. Mr. Banks turned
to the lady, and said 

This is the first time the emeralds have
left the family. I confess, I should hesitate
to accept them."

I am not superstitious," she answered,
laughing. " At any rate, I am willing to
risk it. Come, Geoffrey and Adolphee, it is
high time we went."

Margaret turned to Mr. Banks.

You will let me give you some lunch
before you go," she said. " That is," suddenly
becoming alive to the present, "if
I may offer hospitality in a house that is
no longer my home."

Mr. Banks accepted her offer, adding, " I
should like a little conversation with you
before I go."

Ah, Margaret," said Mrs. Entwistle,
suddenly recalled to a sense of the girl's
presence, " what will you do, you poor
child ? "

She could not restrain a smile at Mrs.
Entwistle's manner.

You know," went on the lady, ipsLtron-

singly, " that I shall be glad to see you
at my house."

Thank you ; but I will remain here for
the present. I dare say Mrs. Latimer
would not refuse me if I could ask her
permission."

Mrs. Entwistle went away, and Margaret
and Mr. Banks were left alone.

"How long will it be before lunch is
ready ? " asked the lawyer.

Margaret glanced at the clock, the hands
of which pointed to half-past twelve.

Half an hour," she answered.

Then, I will speak to you now. I shall
not laye time this afternoon."

He was standing with his back to the
fire, and Margaret was in one of the large
deep armchairs which graced either side
of the fireplace.

That will," he said, after a pause ; " it

VOL. I. 12

leaves you totally unprovided for. What
are you going to do ? "

I shall go to London. I have a friend
there."

Yes, yes ; but is he in a position to
help you ? I mean, can he do more than
just point out a course to be taken, and
then leave you to go on alone ? "

Oh yes ; he was my tutor. He will
help me, and show me what is best for me
to do."

He nodded his head.

And until I hear from him," she went
on, "I should like to remain here, if I
may ? " raising her eyes to his.

Of course. All that is left in my
hands. I hope you will make this place
your home as long as will be convenient
to you. I do not suppose Mrs. Latimer
has any intention of leaving India. I daresay

lie would be very glad if you would
remain here altogether. If you like, I will
write and lay the case before her."

You are very kind, but please don't do
anything of the kind. I should not like
to live here in that way. It is nothing
to me to leave this place. Indeed, if my
grandfather had not died, I must have left
this house when he recovered."

He nodded his head again ; he was a
man of few words. There was a long
pause. Margaret began to think he did
not mean to speak again, when he said
suddenly 

Your name was not mentioned in the

will, Miss Terry. I do not know if you

Can I be of any present use to you ? "

Margaret flushed, for his kindness touched
her.

I cannot sufficiently thank you for your

kindness, Mr. Banks ; but I have sufficient
money for my present wants, and I hope
to find work soon."

Here lunch was announced, and Mr.
Banks, offering his arm to Margaret with
old-fashioned chivalry, handed her into the
dining-room.

Soon after lunch he went away, and
Margaret was left alone in the silent house.
She sat before the fire, thinking. She was
going to write to Philip that evening, and
she wanted to think before beginning her
letter. For the first time since her grandfather's
death she had leisure to think, and
as she sat in the gathering dusk, for the
afternoon had closed in early with a grey
fog and driving, beating rain, she realized
that that chapter of her life which dealt
with Ash Fell would soon be closed.

She went over in her mind the time from

the moment when Dr. Hunter had said
''He is gone," to the present hour. Most
of all, she thought of the will, and then
her face flushed. It would be useless to
pretend that the will had not roused both
her anger and her disappointment. She
was angry because she knew the estate washers
by right, and Margaret had a great
respect for right. She was disappointed
because all her dreams of benefiting the
tenants were at an end ; she could never
hope to carry out the smallest of her plans
for their good.

But she had left what was better than
anything she could have inherited from her
grandfather. He might take away wealth,
station, and power, but he could never
rob her of her independence. Though her
name had not been mentioned in the will,
though she might carry away nothing that

did not strictly belong to herself, she felt
very rich ; and as she sat alone she pictured
her future life in London in glowing-colours.


The following morning Mrs. Entwistle
came in. She seated herself opposite-margaret,
and began her business at once.

Now, my dear, we must see what can
be done for you. Of course you will have
to work now, and, after all, you have no
right to complain ; you have had nineteen
years of holiday."

I do not complain," said Margaret ; " on
the contrary, I shall be very glad to work.
It is what I have always wished to do."

That is very fortunate," replied her
visitor, blandly. " And what do you think
of doing ? I suppose you will try to get
a situation as governess, or something of
that kind. I have no doubt we shall meet

with something by-and-by. I must inquire
among my friends."

Thank you," answered the girl ; " but
I will not put you to so much trouble. I
am not going to be a governess. I am
going to London. I shall live there."

Indeed ! " said the other, stiffly. " How
do you propose to do that ? "

I have written to Mr. Welford ; he will
tell me what to do."

That was a very strange step to take
without consulting those who have your
welfare at heart. And you cannot go to
Mr. Welford."

''I shall go to his mother, I expect," said
the girl, not trying to hide her amusement.
"I have quite made up my mind,"
seeing that Mrs. Entwistle was going to
speak again.

You are acting in a very bold, independent

manner, which I cannot approve
of at all," said the elder lady.

'' I am independent ; that is the great
advantage."

Mrs. Entwistle did not stay much
longer. Her parting words were 

'' You know, Margaret, if you had played
your cards well you might have been left
with a handsome fortune."

To which Margaret made no reply.

The following morning Margaret heard
from Philip. He was most anxious for her
to come to London, and offered her a home
with his mother as long as she chose to
avail herself of it.

The letter put Margaret into the highest
spirits. She decided to leave Ash Fell on
the following day. The greater part of
the time that remained to her she spent in
packing up her things, and at night she

went to say good-bye to the place that had
been her home.

The stately rooms on the ground floor
raised no emotion in her, unless it was of
joy that she was leaving them for ever ;
but when she had mounted the stairs and
reached the rooms where she and Philip
had lived, she felt her heart swell and her
eyes fill. She set down the lamp she
carried, and looked round the old sitting-room.
A thousand memories came over
her, blinding her eyes with tears. Though
twenty-four hours later she would again
have met her only friend, be speaking to
him or hearing his voice, she felt that the
old days were gone, that nothing could
bring them back.

'nothing," she thought, "is ever the
same twice over." Though it was only a
year since Philip had himself said goodbye

to her in that same room, though they
were going to meet again so soon, she
dropped into a chair, leaned her head upon
the old work-table, and cried bitterly.

The next morning she left Ash Fell, and
from the railway carriage window waved a
farewell to the village of which the last
object she saw was " the little grey church
on the windy hill," where her grandfather
lay buried.

On the evening of that same day, three
women were seated in the drawing-room
of a house in one of the suburbs of London.

Mrs. Welford and her two daughters
were awaiting the arrival of Margaret Terry.
Mrs. Welford was but little altered since
we saw her last, eleven years ago. Elsa
and Madge were grown up, but, in spite of
their taller stature, were little changed in
character. Elsa was still gay and light of

\

heart, as a butterfly sporting in the sun ;
Madge's face still wore its old troubled 
careworn look.

The ladies were sitting in silence. Mrs.
Welford and Madge were working ; Elsa,
who was the youngest and indulged, sat in
the most comfortable chair in the room,
deep in a three volume novel. Mrs. Wel-ford
herself broke the silence.

What time did Philip say Miss Terry's
train got in ? "

Quarter-past eight," said Madge, who
always fulfilled the minor duties of life,
such as answering superfluous questions
and the like.

Mrs. Welford looked at the clock, which
struck half-past eight as she looked.

We may expect them in a quarter of
an hour, then, if the train is punctual," she
said, speaking in slow, measured tones.

'' What fun ! " cried Elsa, looking up
from her book. " I am so glad she is
coming. I am dying with curiosity to see
lier. I asked Philip the other day if she is
pretty, and he smiled in that absent way
he has, and said he had really never considered
the point. She had always been
Margaret to him. 1 long to see what she is
like."

There is a cab stopping at the door,"
said Madge, without raising her eyes from
her work. Elsa was the only one of the
party who showed any inclination to go
out and meet the guest ; neither did she get
any further than the door, for her mother
called her back, sharply bidding her not
expose herself to the night air.

They heard Philip open the door with
his latch-key, and his voice speaking to
some one, who answered in sweet, full

tones. Then he came in, and, turning ronncl
they saw he was leading forward a tall
girl, dressed in black, with a pale, beautiful
face and golden hair, which her long
journey had ruffled somewhat.

Mother," said Philip, who looked very
happy, " here is Margaret''

The girl advanced, and Mrs. Welford
rose and, extending her hand, said 

How do you do. Miss Terry ? I hope
you are not very cold after your ionic
journey ? "

Somewhat chilled b}' ]Mrs. Belford's
frigid manner, Margaret turned involuntarily
to the girls, to whom Philip introduced
her. They acknowledged the
introduction characteristically. Madge
hurriedly shook hands, and, murmuring
a few indistinct words, dropped her eyes
again on to her work. Elsa kissed the

new-comer's cheek, and poured forth a
volley of welcoming words.

They were standing in front of the fire ;
one hand Margaret held to the blaze, the
other Philip was holding in his and gently
chafing it.

Miss Terry must be starving," said
Elsa. " Supper is just ready. Miss Terry,
will you go to your room now, or wait
until afterwards.

** I will go now," taking her gloves from
the mantelpiece where she had laid them.

I will show you the way," said Elsa ;
and the two girls left the room together.

A few minutes later they were seated at
supper, and a brisk conversation was going
on. Philip and Margaret had so much to
talk about, and Elsa joined in so persistently,
that the silence of the other two was
not noticed.

Margaret went to bed early, and Philip
left for his rooms a few minutes later,
saying he would call in the course of the
following morning.

Well ! " said Elsa, when the party was
reduced to its primitive number of three,
what do you think of her ? I think she is
most beautiful. I could look at her for hours."

She is good-looking'' said Mrs. Wel-ford,
dispassionately ; " but her manner is
more free and independent than I care to
see in so young a girl."

What do you think, Madge ? " turning
to her sister.

"1? Oh, I don't know. I hardly looked
at her. I like her ; I can understand what
Philip meant by saying she had always
been Margaret. She looks as though, however
other people might change, she would
always be herself."

Elsa laughed. " You see," she said.
she wears no crape. That is one of
PhiHp's ideas. You know, he would do
away with mourning if he could. I expect
we shall find he has filled her head withall
his wild ideas."

CHAPTER X.

Get leave to work
In this world : 'tis the best you get at all."

The following morning, as Margaret sat
with the girls and Mrs. Welford after
breakfast, some one was heard running up
the door-steps.

That is Mr. Welford," said Margaret,
quickly ; and Elsa looked up and laughed.

Do you know his step ? " she asked ;
none of us do."

Philip entered the room. He greeted his
mother and sisters with a kiss, and shook
hands with Margaret, telling her she looked

VOL. I 13

a hundred times better than the night
before.

I hardly knew you as you stood on the
platform," he concluded.

I knew you directly. I had thought
of very little but meeting you all through
the journey."

There is a compliment, Phil," said
Elsa, in delight.

Margaret and I are above compliments,"
said Philip, smiling as he drew his
chair close up to that on which the girl
was sitting. "How did you leave everyone
at Ash Fell  Mrs. Entwistle, for
instance?"

Mrs. Entwistle ! " cried Margaret,
laughing. "She left me, and in a very
angry frame of mind. She had come with
the intention of offering me a refuge in her
house, until together we had found me a

situation as governess. Was she not
kind?"

Philip laughed.

"Just like Mrs. Entwistle," he said.
'-'' What did you say to her ? "

She told him. When she had finished,
he said 

Now, put on your things, and come outwith
me, if you are rested, and we will
talk business."

She did his bidding, and they went out
together. He took her to the National
Gallery, which they had almost to themselves,
and there they began to talk.

Tell me first, Margaret," he said,
whether you have any money."

I have a great deal," she answered.
' Forty pounds."

That is not much," he said, smiling.

But enough to go on with. I shall

get work soon, and shall be able to keep
myself. How delightful that will be ! "

You cannot guess, I am sure, how I
got my money," she said, after a pause.

Did you sell your old dresses ? " he
asked. "I have heard of girls raising
funds in that way."

I should certainly not have got forty
pounds for mine. I sold ' Miss Terry's
jewelry,' " she said, laughing. " I felt
such a weight off my mind when I had
got rid of it."

" I hope ' Miss Terry's jewelry ' did not
include your watch and chain ? " he said,
smiling.

Of course not ; nor your diamond ring
either," she said, alluding to presents from
Philip on successive birthdays.

Then they began to talk seriously. It
was settled that Margaret should have

lodgings and take pupils, until lier name
Alas sufficiently well known for her to be
able to stand alone. After that, Philip
took her to his old friend, the dealer. He
had found a ready market for the things
Philip had sent him a year before, and
Margaret undertook to keep him constantly
supplied.

How fortunate I am ! " she said, as they
turned their steps homewards ; " and it is
all owing to you. If I had been alone, I
should have had such difficulties to encounter
; now they are all smoothed away."

There is no difficulty in helping people
who are willing to be helped," said Philip,
sagely.

They reached home just in time for
dinner, and as Margaret seated herself at
table, Philip, looking at her, was struck
anew by her great beauty. She was

roused and excited with the consciousness
that she was free, that she was going to
begin a new life, and that the future lay-bright
and hopeful before her. She was
feeling, as well, the elation that always
attends one's first visit to a large town ;
the incessant life in the streets, the gay
shops, the lighted lamps, all impressed her,
and made her feel as though she had been
taken into a new world.

Philip did not intend Margaret to leave
his mother's house until she had a prospect
of being able to support herself in lodgings.
A month passed before the girl left Clapham,
and during that month she saw and
learned a great deal. Philip came everyday,
spending his time with his family, or
taking Margaret, and sometimes his sisters,
out. They went to Kensington, to ther
British Museum, to the National Gallery,

and to concerts innumerable. On such
occasions they were generally alone, Elsa
seldom accompanying them on what she
called their " intellectual expeditions."

Margaret got on pretty well with her
hostess and her daughters. She felt sorry
for Madge, and Elsa amused her. She
had seen and known very few girls in her
quiet life, and she was sometimes rather
surprised to find the difference which
existed between herself and the girls she
now met. Elsa and Madge, on their side,
considered Margaret rather in the light of
a curiosity, and were never tired of asking-questions
concerning the life Margaret and
Philip had led together.

Tell me," Elsa said one day, " what
you used to do when Philip was your tutor.
Were you happy ? "

Oh yes," said Margaret, readily. " He

was so kind, it would have been impossible
not to be happy."

'' I suppose you did a great many lessons,
you seem to know everything."

We did not do lessons like they do in
schools. When I learned botany, we used
to go for a picnic among the hills, and
botanize there. Most of the things I know
were learned when we were either riding
or walking ; we had no regular lesson
hours, or books, or routine, or anything;
we did just what we liked at the moment.
I shall never forget a lesson in geology
that Mr. Welford gave me one afternoon
when we were sitting on the moors."

Margaret sat looking dreamily into the
fire. Those happy bygone days seemed to
come back to her as vividly as if she had
been living in them.

When Margaret had been at Clapham a

month, she induced Philip to let her go
into lodgings. She was not very happy
in her present home. The girl was no
favourite with Mrs. "Welford, and she knew
it. The elder lady did not like what she
called Margaret's " freedom and independence,"
and she showed her dislike by an
unbending rigidity of demeanour. Mrs.
Welford forgot how different was the life
Margaret had led from that led by most
girls, and she was constantly advising,
reprimanding, and directing in a way that
chafed the girl's quick, impulsive temper,
and made her vexed and impatient, though
she tried not to show her feelings. She
was fond of the girls, and gave them a
general invitation to visit her whenever
they choose.

Margaret's friendship for Philip only
grew warmer : she was very grateful to

him for his kindness during the time she
had been his mother's guest. He had
soon seen how matters stood, and all his
efforts had been directed to softening his
mother's prejudices, and helping Margaret
to make light of them.

Before Margaret left Clapham she had
advanced so far as to call her tutor by
his Christian name. Elsa had brought
the change about, and was delighted with
the result of her labours ; and though
Margaret had been a little shy at first,
when the change was effected it seemed in
some way to draw Philip nearer to her.

CHAPTER XI.

*' Ah ! let us make no claim
On life's recognizable sea,
To too exact a steering of our way ;
Let lis not fret, and fear to miss our aim,
If some fair east has lured us to make stay,
Or some friend hailed us to keep company."

For some time after Margaret began her
new life, no change occurred to disturb the
even tenor of her way. Her pupils came,
and she gave them their lessons ; she worked
diligently in the workroom that opened
out of her pretty sitting-room. Some of
her lessons she gave at the homes of her
pupils, and in this way made some new
acquaintances, though Philip remained her

only friend. Hers was not a nature that
made friends quickly. She was long in
holding out the right hand of fellowship,
but her hand, once held out, was never
withdrawn.

She had been living alone for five
months. It was now May, and everywhere
out of London the country was
looking almost at its best; even in the
metropolis there was a sneaking feeling of
springtide in the atmosphere.

This May afternoon was exceptionally
fine, and the sun shone brightly in at one of
Margaret's windows, which was wide open
to admit as much of the sweet spring air
as possible. She herself was standing by
the table, working busily. The floor was
covered with little chips and shavings, and
the room was strewn with' tools of all sorts
and sizes suitable for her work. She was

standing with her back to the light, and
the sun just caught the gleam of her
golden hair as she bent over her tools.
She had left off her black dresses, and the
one which now clothed her tall figure was
of a soft gray colour, which suited her
well.

As she worked, a quick step ran up the
stairs, and some one gave a sharp rap on
the door.

Philip's knock," she thought ; and she
said quickly 

Come in."

Her face wore a smile as the young man
entered, and she held out her hand.

How do you do, Philip ? It is a longtime
since you have been here."

I have been intending to come for
days," he answered, throwing himself into
the broad window-seat, " but I have

-always been prevented from coming all the
way."

You are here now, so the rest does not
matter," she said, contentedly, leaving her
work for a moment.

Do you know," said Philip, after a
little pause, it struck me as I came in
just now that you looked rather desolate.
I hope the girls do not neglect you."

On the contrary, they come very often
quite as often as Mrs. Welford will
let them, I am' sure. It is the kinder of
them, as sometimes when they get here I
am too busy to talk to them."

How do you think Madge is looking ? "
asked Philip, suddenly.

I do not think she looks happy," she
said, slowly though decidedly.

No," said her brother ; '' she is too
much under my mother's rule to be that.

No one can associate happiness with my
mother."

Margaret was silent, and presently Philip
said 

I came to ask yoii to go out with me.
Are you too busy ? "

Much," she answered, regretfully.
' How I should have liked to go ! but I
must send this home to-night. It is fora
birthday present tomorrow."

What is it ? "

This is a glove-box ; the handkerchief-case
is on that table."

It is very beautiful," said Philip, taking
it up and examining it. "I think you
have improved."

I know I have ; I am very much
pleased with this."

And you can't leave it to come outwith
me ? "

Impossible. I have some news for
yon."

What may it be ? "

You remember Mr. Bannister, who
lives some miles from Ash Fell ? Mr.
Terry knew him ; he came to a dinner-party
once. He and his wife are building
a church ; they are spending a great deal
of money upon it. It is one of those
ritualistic places, the pulpit, the stalls, and
chancel screen, are to be in carved oak, and
they want "

"You to do it," interrupted Philip,
impulsively. " My dear girl, how delightful
for you ! "

"Is it not charming ? They want me
to go at once, but will wait my convenience.
Such a nice letter from Mrs. Bannister !
Read it;" and she handed him an open
sheet of paper. " You see' she went on,

they want me to stay in the house all the
time. I remember Mrs. Entwistle said they
had a delightful house, and generally lots
of people staying there."

I am very glad," said Philip, warmly.
When shall you go ? "

I cannot go until next month. I have
work which will keep me here until then ;
but in June I shall go. I am very glad I
shall spend the summer in the country,
after all."

I suppose you have no idea how long
you will be away ? "

"No, of course. I cannot even guess
until I have seen the church."

She was working again as she spoke,
her deft fingers handling her tools with
perfect ease and skill.

Philip sat and watched her for some
little time, then he said 

VOL. I. 14

I have nothing particular to do this
evening. If you will let me, I will stay
here, and we will try to bring one of our
old evenings back again."

She assented eagerly, and they sat talking
until Margaret had finished her work,
packed it up, and sent it off; then Philip
made her get one of their favourite books,
and they read together until the light
failed them.

Philip stayed till late, and when he was
gone, Margaret sat by the low table which
held her reading lamp, and began to think
of the work in store for her.

She was very ambitious, and very desirous
that her work should always aim at a high
ideal. A great deal of the carving she saw
in shops, and in the few houses where she
visited, often made her feel how easy it
was for untrained, unskilled workers to

debase an art. With the enthusiasm
natural to her youth and temperament, she
had been determined that her work should
be such as to raise the character and tone
of her art ; she would do nothing that
was not perfect in its way.

A month later, she said " Good-bye "
to Philip and went north to Fencehurst,
the united village of which Mr. and Mrs.
Bannister were the presiding geniuses.

It was a long journey, but, during the
latter part at least, a very beautiful one.
As the train rushed swiftly through the
hilly, picturesque country, Margaret's heart
began to beat fast with the pleasure and
excitement of visiting her native Yorkshire.
The hills were not yet clad in purple, but
they were green with bracken and yellow
with gorse. The rushing, tumbling streams,
which threw themselves headlong down

the narrow gorges studded with hardy-birch
and mountain ash, were fresh and
sparkling as when Margaret had wandered
by them the summer before.

A phaeton had been sent to the station
to meet her, and the two miles to Fence-hurst
were soon covered. Margaret was met
in the hall by Mrs. Bannister, who gave
her a warm welcome, and accompanied her
to her room, saying that dinner would be
ready in half an hour.

When Margaret, a few minutes before
seven o'clock, entered the drawing-room, she
found it full of people. A large party was
staying at Fencehurst, for Mr. and Mrs.
Bannister, in spite of their ritualistic proclivities,
were fond of the good things of
this life, and seldom spent much time alone.

Margaret, as she had told Philip, had seen
Mr. Bannister at Ash Fell, where he had

sat at her grandfather's table, and paid a
great deal of attention to his young hostess.
She found also Mr. Barton at Fencehurst ;
indeed, he took her in to dinner, and did
not let pass the opportunity of asking after
the Rev. Adolphee.

In the drawing-room, Mrs. Bannister
seated herself by Margaret, and talked to
her about the new church. She was very
enthusiastic, and said she had numbers of
plans, which she would submit to Miss
Terry in the morning.

Of course," she said, " you will not be
able to tell all at once how long it will
take you to do the carving, but Mr.
Bannister and I hope you will make Fence-hurst
your home, so long as you are
here."

"You are very kind'" said Margaret; and
Mrs. Bannister went away, wondering what

had induced Mr. Terry to treat his granddaughter
as he had done.

The following day Mr. Bannister took
Margaret to the church. It lay about a
quarter of a mile from the lodge gates, and
was a beautiful building of pure white
stone, with a tall, tapering spire. Mr.
Bannister unlocked the door, and they
went in. Inside, the church was exquisite.
All the windows were of the finest painted
glass ; the chancel steps and floor were of
pure white marble, while the altar literally
blazed with colour ; the woodwork was all
of shining black oak. Mr. Bannister called
largely upon her for admiration, but to
Margaret's unaccustomed eyes it looked
more like a fairy palace than a church,
and she frankly said so.

Then they began to talk about the
carving, and after Mr. Bannister had

listened to Margaret for some time he
said 

You have a genius for these things,
Miss Terry. Our church will be known
far and wide, and your work will go down
to posterity."

She flushed, half with pleasure at the
thought which flattered her ambition, half
with another feeling which she could hardly
analyze.

I will begin my preparations this afternoon,"
she said, as they turned to leave
the building.

I don't think you will be allowed todo
that," he answered, laughing. " I
believe my wife has organized a drive or
something for this afternoon, and I know
she intends you to make one of the party."

So in the afternoon, instead of beginning
her work, Margaret cast in her lot with the

rest of the visitors at Fencehurst, and spent
the golden summer afternoon among the
hills.

Margaret soon found that, even allowing
for several hours' hard work every day, it
would take her three months to do what
she had to do at the church. She told
Mrs. Bannister, adding 

And, as I cannot think of trespassing
upon your hospitality for so long, I must
look about for lodgings."

But Mrs. Bannister and her husband,
whom she called in to her support, were
resolute in opposing any such arrangement.
They were determined she should stay
with them until her work was done.

So Margaret stayed, nothing loth, and
felt happier day by day.

CHAPTER XII.

*' Taller he showed than any by a head,
Great-limbed, broad-shouldered, mightier far than

all.
But soft of speech."

Margaret had been at Fencehurst a fortnight.
Some of the people who had been
there at her arrival still lingered at that
pleasant house ; others had gone, and fresh
faces came in their place. They were all
pleasant people who stayed at Fencehurst :
it was noted for the delightful parties that
gathered within its ivied walls.

It was a sultry evening in July, and
Margaret sat in her rooms, resting from her

work for a few minutes before beginning
to dress for dinner, and she was arranging
the flowers, heavy tea-roses, wbicli she was
going to wear that evening.

Mr. Barton, who had taken her in to
dinner with unfailing regularity for the
last fortnight, had left that morning, and
she was idly wondering who would be her
cavalier that evening. She had heard that
some one else was expected that afternoon ;
had even heard his name, but had forgotten
what it was. Perhaps he would take
her in.

When she went downstairs she found
the drawing-room almost empty; few
women took so short a time to " adorn "
themselves as Margaret, and the majority
were still upstairs. She went forward to
one of the windows, an immense bay, in
which a semicircular seat was placed, and,

sitting down, leaned back and turned over
the leaves of a book some one had left on
the seat. Among the men scattered about
the room a distinct though subdued murmur
of conversation was going on, and Margaret
caught some of the words.

Has Saxenholme come yet ? Has anyone
seen Saxenholme ? " were the inquiries
being buzzed about the room, and as she
heard them she remembered that Saxons
was the name of the man who was
to arrive that afternoon.

Insensibly the room filled. It was nearly
half-past seven, and some people out of the
neighbourhood were dining with them that
night. Margaret from her corner watched
the guests come in and settle down into
little groups for conversation.

Before the fireplace several men were
standing, talking to a tall man, who, af

his face was strange to her, Margaret concluded
was the new guest. He was a man
immensely tall and proportionately broad.
His hair was only a shade darker than her
own. So far as she could see, his eyes
were black, and his complexion was singularly
tanned, as though he had been much
exposed to suns hotter than we are accustomed
to in England. His eyes were
singularly quick and piercing ; indeed, his
face had such an attraction for Miss Terry
that she found it difficult to withdraw her
eyes from it. At the same time, she had
an odd feeling that though the man seemed
completely engrossed in his conversation
with his companions, yet he was all the
time watching her as she was watching
him.

He seems a great favourite," she
thought ; " and in spite of his keen eyes

and quick voice, lie looks kind, and as
though he would never do an unmanly
deed."

Presently she saw Mrs. Bannister go upto
the group on the hearth, exchange a
few words with one of the men, speak to
the stranger, and finally lead him away
captive in the direction of the window
where she was sitting.

The lady seemed to be talking earnestly ;
the stranger was listening with an amused,
half-bantering expression on his face.
When they reached Margaret's side, Mrs.
Bannister said 

'miss Terry, I want to introduce my
friend, Mr. Oswald Saxenholme. Mr.
Saxenholme, Miss Terry."

Saxenholme bowed; but Margaret, impelled
by some instinct for which she could
not quite account, held out her hand.

which Oswald took in his and held for
half a second.

Mrs. Bannister lingered near them fora
moment, and then moved away. Oswald
dropped into the seat by Margaret's side,
saying

What a delightful woman Mrs. Bannister
is ! "

Is she not ? " cried Margaret, turning
(Quickly to him, to find his eyes fixed upon
her. " I never met a woman I liked half
so well."

Have you known her long ? "

Only during the last fortnight, but
that is quite long enough to find out how
good she is."

Yes," he answered ; " she is very good.
I have known her ever since we were both
children, and we have always been friends.
I do not recollect a single quarrel."

At that moment dinner was announced.

I am to have the pleasure of taking
you down to dinner," he said, rising and
offering his arm to Margaret ; and she
looked up with a start, for she had forgotten
where she was.

Are you staying here long ? " asked
Oswald, when dinner was half over.

Until I have done my work," she
answered.

'' Your work ? " he repeated ; and then
went on hastily, " But, pardon me, I have
no business to ask you anything like that.
That was a most impertinent question."

Not at all. I am working for Mr. and
Mrs. Bannister. I am carving the woodwork
in the church."

Indeed ? Are you, too, helping to build
up the Church of the future ? "

Is that the Church of the future ? " she

asked ; and Oswald's answer led them into
a long discussion, whither we will not
follow them.

When the were sitting in the drawing-room
after dinner, Margaret crossed over to
Mrs. Bannister, who was alone, and asked 

Who is that Mr. Saxenholme who took
me in to dinner ? "

Who is Oswald ? " said Mrs. Bannister.
He is Oswald. To people who know
him that expresses everything."

Doubtless. But I don't know him, so
that to say ' he is Oswald ' means nothing
to me."

Where shall I begin ? " said her
hostess. " Did you ever hear of * Saxons
Brothers ' ? "

Margaret shook her head.

"They were bankers  they have been
bankers ever since banks began to exist.

The bank and the name have come down
io posterity, though the Brothers have not.
At present it is ' Saxenholme and Sons
and they have the largest private bank in
London."

"And is this Mr. Oswald Saxenholme
one of the sons ? "

Yes ; the youngest. There are two of
them. Mr. Saxenholme and his eldest son
are in the business. Oswald, lazy fellow,
does nothing."

How intolerable ! " exclaimed Margaret.

Mrs. Bannister laughed.

Every one has not your horror of
idleness. But I am wronging Oswald in
your eyes. When I say he does nothing,
I mean nothing in the business. They are
immensely wealthy people. Oswald has
all his mother's money, and he spends all
his time on his pet hobby."

VOL. I. 15

I am glad lie has some occupation,
if it is only a hobby. What does he
do?"

How sarcastically you speak ! Oswald
is a geographer. I have known him since
he was a child, and his one passion is
geography. Even when I first knew him
his greatest happiness lay in reading
travels and geography. Later on, he
thirsted to be an explorer, or to join a
party of explorers. I believe he either
has offered, or is going to offer, himself
as commander of that party that is leaving
England at the end of the summer, for the
exploration of the interior of Africa."

What modesty ! Will nothing less
than the command suit him ? "

Oh, he is very ambitious ; as ambitious
as you are."

Margaret coloured a little, but she laughed

too, and Mrs. Bannister left her to speak
to some one else.

Margaret sat thinking. Suddenly a voice
at her side said 

Mrs. Bannister has been telling me
about your carving in the church. May
I not see it ? "

The plain, straightforward question struck
Margaret favourably, after all the compliments
and amateur criticism she had
been hearing of late, and she answered
readily 

I shall be very glad to show you all
I have done, whenever you like tomorrow."

To-morrow ! " with an accent of disappointment.
" I really doubt whether I
can wait till tomorrow ; it would be
throwing away a night's rest. I had
hoped you would show it me to-night."

To-night ! " she said, in some surprise.

*' I do not think we could see it ; it will
be dark in the church now."

*' Do come," he said, persuasively. And
then, changing his tone, he went on
quickly, "- Come, Miss Terry ; I see a lady
approaching whom 1 know of old. She
is going to force us to join a fearful and
wonderful round game, which no one
knows but herself, and which it is impossible
to learn ; I believe she invented
it herself. Come ! "

He started up as he spoke, and went
hastily in the direction of an open French
window. Almost without knowing what
she did, Margaret followed him, and a
moment later they stood together on the
terrace.

That was well done," said Oswald,
laughing. " I often wonder why Miss
Langton comes here. She is the only disagreeable

person one ever meets at Fence-hurst."


"When they entered the church, Margaret
pointed out her work, and Oswald peered
round in the dusk, and was forced at last
to say, with a laugh 

You were quite right. Miss Terry ; I
cannot see it at all. I must come again
in daylight."

They did not stay long in the church,
hut once out of doors again they lingered.
It was such a perfect June night, so warm
and so still, and the flowers sent out such
a soft, haunting perfume, it seemed a shame
to go indoors, even to sit in a drawing-room
lighted with the softest of candles
and lamps. Oswald and Margaret paced
the terrace almost in silence, though there
was no question raised of going indoors, or
of joining any of the laughing, chattering

groups scattered about the garden. Gradually
the people went indoors, and Margaret
and Oswald had been for some time alone
when the former suddenly said 

I had no idea every one had gone in.
It must be getting quite late. Let us go
in, too ; the air is getting chill."

And with that they passed through the
still open window and returned to the
drawing-room.

It was late when they separated for the
night, and yet Margaret felt no inclination
to sleep. The candles on her dressing-table
burned with a soft shimmering light,
and the blind was down. She drew it
up, and, throwing the window wide open,
leaned far out into the still night. Her
heart was beating fast, and her pulses
throbbed. Her whole being was roused
and excited ; she had never in her life felt

as she did this night. Her thoughts
naturally turned to Oswald Saxenholme.
He had spent nearly the whole evening at
her side, and the echo of his last words
seemed still sounding in her ears. She
thought he was the handsomest man she
had ever seen. Among all the men who
had frequented her grandfather's house, she
remembered none with so goodly a presence
as his ; none who bore his head so proudly
aloft, or who looked so far removed from
all meanness or littleness of soul. She had
never heard a voice that rang so true and
brave in her ears ; never seen eyes that
looked into hers with such an open, fearless
gaze.

So she sat by the window dreaming, and
the short June night was almost over when
she shut the window and turned to undress.


CHAPTER XIII.

'' "So she moved

Amid them all, a thing beloved
Of earth and heaven ; could she be
Made for his sole felicity ? "

The following morning, as Margaret was at
work in the church, she heard the door
open and some one come up the aisle.
Looking up, she saw that it was Mr. Saxons


Good morning ! " he said, holding out
his hand. "It is half-past eleven, and the
first time we have met to-day."

You were not down when I had breakfast,"

lie said, when she had returned his
greeting.

You must have been very early. I
kept expecting you to come into the diningroom,
but you never came. At last I
thought it possible you might be here, sa
I came to see."

I generally breakfast alone," she said.

That must be very lonely," he said,.
with perfect gravity.

They talked for a long time. Margaret
told her visitor of the amusing criticism
sometimes passed upon her work by the
guests at Fencehurst. From that they
passed to other subjects, and almost before
Margaret knew what she was saying, she
had put Oswald into possession of the chief
details of her past and present life. When
she had finished speaking, she was seized
with astonishment that she could have

talked so openly to such a complete stranger
as was Oswald Saxenholme.

When Oswald spoke again, it was on
quite a different subject, and he presently
abandoned his lazy attitude, and began to
wander up and down the church, apparently
examining it.

After this, they spent a great deal of
time together. They talked, argued, and
disputed, and were sometimes on the verge
of quarrelling. Margaret had by this time
learned a great deal of Oswald's history
and occupations. From answers given to
her own questions, and also from information
volunteered by himself, she learned
that here he had no abiding city, that he
spent most of his time in travelling, and
that he made his father's house in London
his head-quarters. He told her, too, a
great deal about the expedition just being

organized for the exploration of the interior
of Africa. He said he had almost made up
his mind to join it.

I am not bound so that I could not
draw back if anything happened to prevent
my going," he said one day ; " but I
expect I shall go. I have nothing to keep
me in England, and it would be a splendid
opportunity for distinguishing oneself."


When do they leave England ? " she
asked.

In the autumn sometime. I am not
quite sure when."

How long are they going to be
absent ? "

- Of course, they cannot tell ; but I
believe they have fixed three years as the
furthest limit of time."

She did not speak, but went on working

with a steady hand, though her heart was
heavy with the thought, " He is eager to
go. There is nothing to keep him in
England. He would be away three years,
which I suppose I should spend in growing
older and duller and more stupid. Why
did he ever come near me ? "

Looking up, she said, speaking coldly
from the very intensity of her feeling 

You are standing in my light, Mr.
Saxenholme. Do you mind standing on
one side ? "

He gave her a quick look as he did her
bidding, and she went on 

I suppose even the most inveterately
idle people must have something to occupy
themselves with."

Do you consider me inveterately idle.
Miss Terry?"

You have always described yourself as

being without any employment, and I
never see you do anything here."

You do not like lazy people, I think ? "

I despise them," she said, quickly, her
mouth growing scornful.

His handsome face flushed a little, though
he laughed as he said 

I believe you are right. Mrs. Bannister
is always imploring me to work in someway.
She threatens me with the most
terrible penalties if I do not reform. What
do you think she told me the other day ? "

I cannot imagine."

And your voice say you do not care to
know, that I have bored you long enough ;
but I am rude and selfish, and I shall goon
boring you. I want to know if you
agree with her, because I value your judgment
very highly."

You are very kind."

He laughed unrestrainedly, and there
was a pause, which he broke by asking 

You do not ask what Mrs. Bannister
said."

I do not care to hear."

But I am going to tell you. She said
that though I thought myself very fascinating
'  you see, I do not hesitate to repeat
her most malicious slanders  ' I should
find no woman worthy of the name who
would consent to be the wife of such a lazy,
shiftless fellow as I am.' "

He was looking straight at Margaret, as
she stood with her eyes fixed on her work.
She did not speak, and he waited until a
light of amusement came into his eyes ; but
he was quite grave as he asked 

You do not say if you think she was
right."

I have no opinion on the matter."

Still she did not meet this eyes. He
shifted his position, and went on 

This is most lamentable ! I assure you,
Mrs. Bannister's words cut me up a great
deal, and I wanted to hear if you agreed
with her. I might doubt her justice, but
not hers and yours. I should like to know
what you think ? "

It would take too long to tell."

I hardly know what to make of that
answer ; let me ask you something else. I
begin to wonder if it is too late for me to
reform. I am seven and twenty ; tell me
whether you think there is any chance forme,
if I begin at once."

Her heart was beating so that she could
hardly speak. She could not tell what he
meant, whether he was in earnest or only
amusing himself at her expense ; but she
could not resist the influence of his gaze

and this persuasive voice, and she answered
slowly 

That is for yourself to decide, I think."

The words had hardly left her mouth,
and he was going to reply, when the
church door opened, and two or three of
the Fencehurst party entered, talking.

Margaret hailed their appearance with
mingled emotions of relief and disappointment,
which showed themselves in the
flush that spread over her fair face. Oswald
looked hoped, but he raised himself into an
upright position, and greeted the newcomers
with his wonted cheerfulness.

A few days after this, Oswald announced
his intention of going to London for a few
days. He felt restless and dissatisfied.
He could not tell whether Margaret cared
for him or not, and he could not make up
his mind to ask her.

He did not know whether to come back
to Fencehurst or not. Was it worth his
while comines; bade ? He could not tell.
At last he hit upon an expedient for finding
ont. When Margaret and he stood alone in
the garden, he said suddenly 

I am going away tomorrow, Miss
Terry."

His eyes were fixed upon her face as he
spoke. He was watching for the slightest
change in expression or manner, and
only a man watching as he did could
have detected the very slight increase
of colour in her fice, and the almost imperceptible
tremor in her voice, as she
answered 

So soon, Mr. Saxenholme ? Is it not
rather sudden ? "

She did not look at him as she spoke,
and Oswald thought in triumph that if

VOL. I. IG

must be because she was afraid of betraying
more than she wished to show.

*' It is rather sudden. The fact is, I
ought to have gone long ago, but I could
not tear myself away ; and now I avail
myself of a very peremptory business call
to do what is only my duty, though I am
unreasonable enough to regard it as a hardship."


He smiled as he spoke. She smiled too,
though she said 

Are you coming back ? Shall we not
see you again ? "

He paused before he answered. Should
he say, " I will come back on one condition
 that you promise to be ]ny wife ; "
but instead, he said 

' I may come back ; I am not sure."

The next day he went ; but at the end
of a fortnight he returned, and until he

came back, Margaret did not know how completely
she had missed him. He seemed to
have grown into and become a part of her
life, and the consciousness that it was so
disturbed her and caused her some anxiety.

I am very foolish," she thought, " to
attach myself to what I cannot keep, and
to throw myself so much into the lives of
people I shall probably never see again. I
will not do it. I will try to forget
Oswald Saxenholme and the three months
I have spent here, though they have been'
very happy ones."

But the process of forgetting advanced
but slowly, as Oswald was always With her,
always talking to her ; and meanwhile
the days and weeks passed away, and her
work grew ever nearer completion.

CHAPTER I.

Dost thou love me, my beloved ?
* * *

I have seen thy b aic to-day.
Never open to the crowd ;
While to love me aye and aye

Was the vow as it was vowed
By thine eyes of steadfast grey."

It was August, when Margaret, coming into
lunch one day, announced that her work
was ended. There were only a few guests
at Fencehurst at the time, but they had
been there long enough to have acquired
an interest in the church. Her tidings,

VOL. II. 17

therefore, created some excitement, and,
when lunch was over, they all went to the
church. Arrived there, they dispersed
themselves about in groups, and though
one or two ventured to criticize, none
withheld admiration. Oswald stood by
Margaret's side, but the companionship
between these two had ceased to excite
either surprise or comment ; the surprise
was felt when either was seen alone.

The carving certainly merited the
admiration which was bestowed upon it.
Margaret had surpassed herself. The
delicate tracery and openwork looked
almost like lace in their fineness, and the
bold, firm strokes proved the hand of one
who had mastered her art. Perhaps the
most beautiful thing of all was the immense
cross which stood at the top of the chancel
screen, and which was twined with wreaths

of passion flowers, all cut in the shining
black oak.

Mr. and Mrs. Bannister were enthusiastic
in their praises, and Margaret owned that
she was pleased with her work.

As they left the building, Mrs. Bannister
put Margaret's hand on her arm, and, with
the air of one continuing an interrupted
conversation, said 

"It is of no use saying you must go,
Margaret. I have made up my mind to
keep you for some time yet."

You are very kind, but you forget that
I may not spend my time in idleness and
visiting. You know Mr. Stanley and Miss
Denton are to be married in the spring,
and I am to do all their dining-room furniture
for them, including the mantelpiece."

But you must not begin to work again
until you have had a rest."

After much argument, Margaret consented
to remain at Fencehurst a week
longer, and though her hostess protested,
she had to be satisfied.

The following afternoon Margaret stood
by her bedroom window, thinking. She
had a delicious sense of freedom and of
being able to do as she chose without
reference to time, that only the completion
of a long piece of work can give. She
wanted to go out, and she wanted solitude.
She would go for a walk, but where ? A
sudden thought struck her : she would goto
the Enchanted Valley. It was only two
miles away, and the day was not too hot
for walking. She took up her hat, which
lay on the bed, and went downstairs. She
met no one as she passed through the
vestibule and out into the garden.

She walked slowly. There was plenty

of time, and the country looked exquisite.

When she reached the Enchanted Yalley,

she drew a deep breath and looked round.

It was the same as when she and Philip

had sat there two years before.

The solemn wastes of heathy hill
Sleep in the July sunshine still ;
The selfsame shadows now, as then,
Play through this grassy upland glen ;
The loose dark stones on the green way
Lie strewn, it seems, where then they lay ;
Still this wild brook, the rushes cool.
The sailing foam, the shining pool."

She sat down and gazed round, looking
as though her eyes could never be filled
with the beauty of the place.

As she sat thus, abandoned to the

pleasure of the moment, a voice, whose

ring she knew well, said at her ear 

Blow, west wind, by the lonely mound,
And murmur, summer streams ;
There is no need of other sound
To soothe my lady's deans."

She started at the sound, and the colour
flushed into her cheeks, as she said 

Mr. Saxenhohne ! I did not know
you knew this place."

*' I was never here until I came this
afternoon'' replied Oswald.

How did you find the way ? "

"If the truth must be told' he said,
looking at her, - I saw you leave the house,
and I followed you here."

She coloured, but she did not speak,
either to say she was glad he had come or
to reprove him for having followed her.

Oswald, after a moment's pause, threw
himself on the heather at her feet, and
began idly to pluck little tufts of grass and
flowers, and to throw them into the stream
which hurried past them. They were
both silent ; Margaret hardly knew how to
break the silence. Her heart was beating

fast, for she dare not guess what motive
had made Oswald follow her, and yet she
could not rid herself of the belief that he
had some particular motive.

This is a most beautiful place," he said,
as he looked round.

Yes," said Margaret ; " I love it. What
made you say those lines as you came
here ? " she went on, after a pause ; " and
why did you connect them with me ? "

"They seemed peculiarly fitted to the
occasion, and I knew you liked them,
because I sometimes heard you sing them
when you were working''

Another pause. Oswald seemed to have
something on his mind, of which he wished
to unburden himself, and which yet he
hardly knew how to say. He, however,
spoke first.

I asked you a question once. Miss

Terry, before I went to London, and which
you never answered. I wish you would
give me an answer now."

I do not remember " she began.

*' Don't you remember my telling you
what Mrs. Bannister said about my idleness?
I asked you if you thought it
would be worth while to reform."

"I recollect," she said, quickly; "but
I did give you an answer. I said I
thought you yourself were the best judge
of that."

"But I don't call that an answer. Is
that really all the opinion you have on the
matter ? I am disappointed. But I want
to tell you something else. You must stop
me if I bore you."

She shook her head, and he went on.

I am not a particularly strong-minded
fellow, I think. I have not yet attained to

the height of doing difficult things for
their own sake. I have no inducements.
If I were to begin taking a share in the
business, it woukl not profit me much. I
have a sufficient income without working
for it, and I don't care to spend all my
days in a city office, for the mere sake of
amassing money."

But for yourself'' she said, hastily.
It makes one feel so independent to have
a settled occupation."

He laughed. " I know you think no
end of work, and I believe you are right.
The consciousness that he has to support
himself, that he has a settled place in the
army of workers, must raise a man in his
own esteem. I know it is very disgraceful
to confess such a thing, particularly in
these times, when everybody pretends to
have an object in life, and to be helping on

some great cause or other ; but I do not
care to work, either for work's sake or for
my own. If I had some one belonging tome
who would take an interest in what I
did ; if I had a wife "

He paused, and looked gravely at
Margaret. She was wonderfully confused ;
her colour went and came, and she plucked
the flowers that lay in her lap to pieces.

You  you Surely it would be

easy for you to find a wife," she said at
last, throwing her flowers aside.

No," he said, thoughtfully. " I fancy
I must be difficult to please, for I never
met any one whom I felt the least inclination
to marry until I came here. I have
found some one at last who would always
help me, and for whose sake I could do
anything  whose influence upon me could
only be noble and elevating, because she

herself is so high-minded and noble. If
she would be my wife, I could do anything ;
but I will never marry any other woman 
Can you guess whom I mean ? "

She covered her face with her hands.
She could not answer him.

Have I drawn the portrait so badly
that even the original cannot recognize it ? '
he said, as she did not speak. " Margaret
will you be my wife ? "

She let her hands fall into her lap.
Are you serious ? " she asked. " Do you
really think of me like that ? "

Tliat' he said, smiling, "by no means
expresses what I think of you. I cannot
tell you. But they say actions speak
louder than words. May I show you by
my whole life how much I love you, and
how far I set you above all other women ? ""

He had taken her two hands in his, and

was looking into her eyes. She could not
escape from him, his love and her own
held her fast ;* she could hardly speak ; she
only said 

I will do what I can. I love you."

After that they sat almost in silence.
Margaret felt as though a new world had
been opened to her ; she seemed to see the
surrounding objects with newly opened
eyes, to note every inflexion in Oswald's
voice with keener ears.

They decided to tell no one of their
engagement except Mrs. Bannister, and
Oswald agreed with Margaret that it would
be wrong and ungrateful to keep her in
ignorance.

Philip cannot know," said Margaret.
He is not in London now ; he has gone
abroad, and will not come back for two or
three months. I had much rather tell him

than write to him about it ; letters are not
satisfactory."

Oswald's face fell.

But, my darling, we shall surely be
married before two or three months ? "

She shook her head.

Not so soon as that. I cannot marry
unless Philip is at the wedding ; and also
it could not be so soon, I should not like
it. I must have some time."

Oswald did not dispute the matter, and
so it was settled.

They stayed long in the Enchanted
Valley, only leaving themselves just sufficient
time to reach Fencehurst for
dinner.

On their way home, Oswald said, decisively


I shall not tell any of my people
about this. There is no reason why they

should be favoured above the rest of the
world."

Ob yes," said Margaret, stopping short
in the middle of the road. " I had forgotten
them. Your sister ? "

*' If I were to tell her, the privacy of our
engagement would be at an end. The
most solemn oaths of secrecy would not
hold Florence back from telling it to all
her friends."

Margaret was quite content with the
arrangement, and they arrived at Fence-hurst
in a very blissful frame of mind.

After dinner Margaret took possession of
Mrs. Bannister, and drew her into the
garden. There she told her what had
taken place that afternoon. "When she
had finished, Mrs. Bannister answered and
said 

I am delighted to hear of this. Ever

since I have seen you and Oswald here
together, I set my mind on this happening."

Things seldom come to pass exactly as
we want them, do they ? " said Margaret,
reflectively.

I never knew two people so perfectly
suited to one another as you and Oswald.
He is a splendid fellow, but rather idle.
I have often lectured him about his idleness.
Now I can shift my responsibility on to
your shoulders, and you will give him the
ballast he wants. On the other hand, he
is just the person you ought to have always
with you. He is light-hearted and careless;
and you are too much inclined to be careworn
about things, and to take the burdens
of other people on to your own shoulders."

Margaret laughed. " You have evidently
made up your mind that it is to be a
perfect marriage."

"There are very few such marriages,"
said her companion, seriously. " Lawrence's
and mine has been one ; I hope yours will
be another."

CHAPTER II.

And the night waxes, and the shadows Ml."

During the three weeks that followed her
return to London Margaret was very happy.
Oswald came to see her every day, and
as none knew of their engagement, they
could enjoy themselves in their own way.
Oswald was her only visitor, for Philip
was still on the continent, and Mrs.
Welford and the girls were in the country.
One day when Oswald came he took her
to Dulwich to see the pictures, and as it
was a fine, moonlight evening, they walked
part of the way hack to town. As they
walked they began to speak of the future.

VOL. 11. 18

They were to be married in six montis, and
Margaret, in her quiet deliberate way, had
already begun to make preparations for her
married life. In the course of the conversation,
Oswald said 

"We are to be married in the Bannisters'
church, are we not ? "

Mrs. Bannister said so."

Then Bannister will want to give you
away."

'she cannot," said Margaret, quickly.
Philip must do that ; he has the first
right."

In my own mind," said Oswald, " I
had decided he should be best man."

Margaret laughed. " How absurd ! " she
said. " I cannot imagine you gravely
setting to work to arrange the order of
our marriage feast six months before it is
to take place."

But don't you think of it, too ? I
assure you I think of very little else."

Oh, of course I think about it ; but
marriage means so much more to a woman
than to a man."

How do you make that out ? "

I imagine you will go on living very
much as you do now."

My dear," interrupted Oswald, " you
know you were to help me to lead a more
useful life. Already I have begun to take
an interest in the bank, thereby astonishing
my father and brother almost out of
their senses."

My life will be the most changed,
though," said Margaret. " I shall have a
house and servants, and everything will
be so different," she finished, a little vaguely.

I wonder what my people will say
when I tell them," he said, after a pause.

'' I expect their little minds will be rather
disturbed ; they have never seen such a
woman. as you."

Do you think they will not like me ? "

I don't see how they are to help liking
and admiring you when they know you
but the first shock will be great. They
will hardly believe that my wife is going
to be the most beautiful woman in London,
and not a mere lay figure for showing off
fashionable clothes."

I am not afraid," said Margaret, laughing.
" I am not going to marry them."

How about that exploration party you
were going to join ? " she asked presently.

Oh, that ? I have given it up."

You told me once there was nothing in
England to keep you from going."

That was before I knew yon hvd begun
to think about me. Thongs <v n then,

lead they suddenly sent me word to join
and start immediately, I think I should
have let them go without me."

She smiled, not ill pleased.

But I know you would like to go. Go
now."

And leave you behind ? "

I would go with you ; I should like to
travel."

They were alone on the moonlit road as
she said this, and he stood still and looked
into her strong, beautiful face and " calm,
grey eyes divine," and said 

Would you, Margaret ? Would you
follow me out there ? "

I would go with you," she answered,
smiling ; and he walked on, saying 

* I believe you would ; I know you
would. But there is no need for that. I
would much rather stay here with you.

Besides, they would not allow women to
go out there. They are getting as many
unmarried men as possible."

Will it be so dangerous ? "

Yes. It is one of those things that
will. bring undying honour to those who
carry it out ; but the chances are a hundred
to one that none come back to tell the
tale."

She shuddered. How thankful she was
he was not going !

A few days later, when Oswald came to
see her, Margaret fancied he looked graver
and was more silent than usual. She said
nothing, thinking it might be her imagination
which cheated her ; but on the following
day the gravity and silence were still
there, though he evidently tried to throw
them off. This time Margaret could not
let him go without remarking on the

change in his manner. When he bid her
good night, she said 

Oswald, you are not yourself to-night.
What is the matter ? "

The matter is with your imagination,
not with me," said Oswald, lightly.

No ; you were like this yesterday.
Tell me, has anything gone wrong with

'' No ; " and his candid eyes met her full
and true. " Nothing has happened, only
the cares of business are already beginning
to leave their mark upon me."

She opened her eyes in some surprise.

You are making fun of me."

On the contrary, believe me, when
any trouble comes, I will come straight to
you with it. I am turning out a better
man of business than I had expected, that
is all."

And with that he was gone. Before she
had time to stop him, he had drawn her to
him, kissed her, and left the room. Even
as she started to call him she heard the
house door bang, and knew she could not
stop him.

She hardly knew why she wanted to
stop him, except that his last words had
been spoken in a singular tone of mingled
bitterness and contempt, and she could not
tell why he had spoken so. She remembered
that some days before, she had asked
Oswald if his father and brother had been
as much astonished at his taking a share in
the business as he had expected, and he had
said, " Yes, they were very much surprised,
and rather disgusted. If there were not
some provision by which I can enter the
business if I choose, I believe they would
have declined my company."

She hoped she was not going to be the
'Cause of any unpleasantness between Oswald
and his father, as her mother had been
between her father and grandfather.

The following day Oswald did not come
to see her at all, but sent a note explaining
his absence, with which she had to be
satisfied, though she felt lonely and restless
11 day.

For the next few days Oswald was moody
and gloomy, though doubly affectionate to
herself.

She was standing one morning in her
workroom, when she heard steps on the
stairs, which made her pause and say 

That is Oswald. He seldom comes so
early as this."

Some one knocked on the panels of her
door. She bid her visitor enter, and truly
it was Oswald who came in.

Good morning, Oswald," she said, a&
he did not speak.

Good morning," he replied ; and his
voice, though courteous and quiet, sounded
hard and forced, as though he hardly knew
what he was saying. His face was very
pale, and his mouth looked hard and stern,
as though the lips could never unbend
into their own genial smile. Only his eyes
seemed alive, and in them was a look so
dark and fierce, and withal so miserable, that
Margaret, brave woman though she was,
felt her heart grow cold with fear at the
sight ; then it went on beating wildly ,.
stormily.

Oswald ! " she said, quickly ; " what is
the matter ? Tell me."

The sound of her voice seemed to rouse
him. He did not take his eyes from her
face, but he came a step nearer, and taking-her

in this arms, kissed her passionately
while he said 

I ought not to have come, but I could
not help it."

Margaret wrenched herself free with a
stifled cry.

'' Oswald ! " she cried, her face growing-
as white as his own, " what do you
mean ? You make me fear terrible things.
Tell me what has happened."

Do I frighten you ? Come here ; " and
he led her to a chair. " Sit down," he
went on, '' and let me tell you every thing.
But first, have you seen the paper ? "

Not this morning."

Ah ! " he said, as much to himself as
to her. " I had hoped you would have
seen it. Now I must tell you all myself."


There was a pause. Margaret at first

forbore to speak, but the silence lasted so
long, she said at last 

For pity's sake speak, Oswald. I cannot
bear this silence."

He pulled himself together. Truly the
task before him was a difficult one, and he
shrank from performing it.

Well, then," he said at last, '' if you
had seen the paper you would have known
that Saxenholme's bank has stopped payment."


Margaret rose hastily, and came towards
him, saying 

Oh, Oswald ! "

He put out his hand to stop her.

You have not heard all. Do you suppose
I came here to frighten you by telling
you that ? If we had only stopped payment,
that would not undo us, that alone need
not disgrace a bank. It was an unlimited

affair ; you know what that means. Saxons
bank has been known ever since
banks existed, and the name has always
been honourable, and the hands clean. You
will probably wonder when I have done
how I dare come and speak to you, and
look you in the face again."

He paused a moment. He still stood with
his back to the fireplace ; his hands were
behind him. Margaret could not see how
they were white, and how the veins stood
out with the pressure upon them as he
nervously interlaced his fingers. She was
standing where he had bid her stay, her
grave, steady eyes fixed upon him.

She was silent even when he paused, she
did not speak, and perhaps her continued
silence was as hard to bear as any ordeal
he had imagined.

Presently he went on, in the same hard

constrained voice in which he had spoken
from the first.

For five years an organized system of
cheating has been going on, pursued by
my father and brother. There is not a
penny in that bank that is not owed over
and over again. The public have been
robbed wholesale, and my father has been
the thief."

He flung the words out harshly, roughly,
defiantly, as though she should know the
worst at once ; then he turned his back
upon her, and, leaning his arms on the
chimney piece, bent his head upon them.

Margaret stood silent, stunned. She
could not take the intelligence in ; she
hardly knew what Oswald had been saying.
Then, when he turned his back upon her,
she put her hands to her face and tried to
arrange things in her mind. At last she

let her hands fall, and, going across the
room, stood by her lover and touched his
arm lightly.

"This is dreadful, Oswald," she said,
quietly.

He turned and faced her. His face, which
had lately been so pale, was now flushed ;
but his eyes burned still with the same
fierce, miserable light. He seized her two
hands and held them fast, while he looked
straight at her.

Ay," he said, " it is dreadful. My
father has had the reputation of being a
benevolent man. He is said to have made
good use of his wealth. Two years ago
he built a church ; last year he gave five
hundred pounds to the Famine Fund; and a
few months ago he gave a watch and chain
that cost a hundred guineas to one of his
head men ; and "  grasping her wrists so

hard that he hurt her  " every penny he
gave away was robbed from the pnbhc.
At this moment there are widows and
clergymen and orphans crying out and
cursing the name of Saxenholme, for they
have not a farthing to save them from the
workhouse. They curse the name that has
stood upright for centuries, and now it is
dragged in the dirt and dishonoured."

As he uttered the last word it seemed
as though he could contain himself no
longer. He flung her hands from him,
and paced the room from end to end ; then
flung himself into a chair and buried his
face in his hands.

Margaret stood still, her colour coming'
and going. Only she, who knew the perfect
uprightness of Oswald Saxenholme's nature,
and his intolerant scorn and loathing of
anything which bore the least shadow of

double dealing, could understand what the
word " dishonour," as attached to his own
name, meant to him.

But she could not remain apart from
him. He had said that in trouble he would
come to her ; her place now was at his side.
She went to his side, and took his nerveless
hand in her own while she pressed it
to her lips, saying 

Oswald, Oswald ! you must not give
way like this."

He looked up and smiled at her  a bitter,
miserable smile that cut her to the heart,
while he moved as though he would have
drawn his hand away, saying, in a low,
dull voice 

You forget, Margaret, that you are
touching the hand of a dishonoured man."

*' You are not dishonoured," she cried.
The dishonour has not touched you."

VOL. II. 19

We are all of one name ; I must
share in the general disgrace. It falls
upon me as well as upon the guilty
ones."

Then it falls upon the man I love, and
shall always love whatever may happen;
and in that it may fall on me too, and I
shall not care."

How beautiful she looked as she spoke
the brave, defiant words  words of love and
enthusiasm that sent the blood flying to
her cheeks ! Oswald's heart gave a great
leap, and then sank heavy as lead as he
thought of what was coming.

' My darling," he said, gently, " those
words put new life into me, but you must
not speak like that. That is what I came
here to tell you. After this disgrace, I
cannot ask you to take my name ; I must
give you up."

The colour faded slowly from her face.
She rose to her feet, and her eyes fastened
steadily upon his as she said, in her clear,
true voice 

What do you mean, Oswald ? I do
not understand you."

My sweet," he said, desperately, " how
am I to explain ? I am a disgraced man.
How can I let you marry me, and be disgraced
too ? Don't you see ? "

* I don't see that you have done anything
that should prevent our marriage,"
she said, quietly.  You have done nothing,
you are not disgraced. But if, as you say,
you must share in your father's disgrace
because you bear his name, I will share it
too, as we are to be married in a few
months ; I am not afraid."

You are afraid of nothing," with a tone
of admiration in his voice. '' But it is

much better we should part. I have
thought it well over."

Have you ? When did you hear of
this ? "

I heard it this morning."

She laughed. " And when you heard it,
the first thing you thought of was that
you would have trouble, and you thought
I was not strong enough to bear trouble
and sorrow, so you came immediately to
set me free. Was it not, so ? I know how
you felt in your generosity, that no shadow
should fall on my life; that sooner than
that you would dart from me, from the
woman you love  for I know you do love
me, Oswald. But did you think I had no
love for you ? Did you think trouble
would frighten me ? You little know me.
I will not let you give me up."

She looked at him through her tears ;

and he rose and took her in his arms, kissing
her and feeling that he could not give
her up, yet that he must.

Do not cry like this, Margaret ; you
will make it so much harder for me to go."

What ! " she cried, raising her head
and looking him in the face ; " you are
talking of going yet ? You will not leave
me really ? Oswald, you are not in
earnest?"

You do not think ; you forget that you
are offering to tie yourself to a man who
cannot hold up his head before other men."

Perhaps I do forget," she said, a little

unsteadily, " or perhaps I am speaking to

the wrong person. The Oswald Saxons

I knew was a man, and would never

have owned himself defeated."

Do you think I avant to give you up ? "

he said. " Do you think that if I wanted

you when all went well with me, I do not
want you now when everything seems a
wreck ? "

Listen to reason, Oswald," she said
firmly. " Suppose this had happened six
months later ; we should have been married
then, and it would have been useless to
talk of parting."

''If only you knew," he interrupted,,
impulsively, " how thankful I was when
I heard this that we were not married."

She was silent. At last she said 

And if we did separate, Oswald, what
are you going to do ? "

I should join the exploration party
It is not too late. They would be very
glad to have me."

Have you taken any steps about
this?"

I went about it before I came here.

I dared not see you till I had arranged
something."

And  and have you quite decided ? "
Yes. I could not draw back now."
She did not speak, but sank into the low
window-seat and let her hands fall into
her lap with a gesture of despair, while she
said, in a low voice 

Oh, I cannot let you go like this."
He did not speak, and she went on passionately


Oswald, you will break my heart if
you go in this way. You think you will
suffer if you leave me, but what will your
suffering be to mine? You will be leading
the life you like best among your
chosen companions, and with no time for
thinking. But what should I do alone
here, thinking of you every day, yet with
the tie that bound us together broken, with

no right to think of yon ? I could not
bear it ; I should go mad."

She spoke passionately, and in her face
was a great terror, as though the fate she
was contemplating had actually befallen
her. Oswald could not bear the sight ; he
said quickly 

Dearest, I will do whatever you choose.
Tell me what to do, and I will do it."

They sat together after that, and planned
how they should act. They were to be
married privately before Oswald left England,
and it was his wish that the marriage
should be kept secret until he came home
again. He was even opposed to Margaret's
telling Philip. He had an inward conviction
that Mr. Welford would scarcely
approve of such a marriage for her, and he
did not wish his wife to be exposed to her
friend's displeasure without her husband

being present to support her. Margaret
promised all he asked. She felt as though
nothing she could do for him now would
be too much to prove her love for and
faith in him.

CHAPTER III.

And for lier sake and in her strength go forth,
To do and suffer greatly."

The following weeks passed like a dream ta
Margaret. The exploration party was to
leave England in a month, and Oswald had
his outfit to get ready. He had told her
that he had put up their banns in a quiet
old city church, where few people ever
went, and certainly none whom they were
likely to know. The preparations were all
for Oswald, for herself there was nothing
to do ; she would go on living her quiet,
uneventful life, waiting for the time to
pass till Oswald should come home again.

She was glad, there were so many things
to do ; that her time was fully occupied, and
she had not time for grieving and thinking
of the step she had taken.

Oswald came to see her every day, and
she laid aside her usual work that she
might spend as much time with him as
possible. They spoke often of the past and
future.

You are sure," said Margaret one day,
that I have not made you act contrary to
your real wishes ? You are sure that you
will be happier in Africa, thinking of meas
your wife, than as some one with whom
you had no relation at all."

Of course," he said, " I have no answer
for such a question. Do you know," he
went on, " that acting as you have done
has, I believe, saved me from what I do not
like to think of ? If you had accepted my

proposal and agreed that we had better
part, I think I should have gone straightaway
and shot myself. The smash at the
bank was so horrible, the consciousness
that the deepest villainy had been perpetrated
by my nearest relations was so
overwhelming, that I was nearly mad when
I went into your house. I meant what I
said, though ; every word was spoken in the
most solemn earnest. At that time it did
seem as though the best thing we could do
would be to part. You were right when
you said you were not speaking to the
Oswald Saxenholme you knew. I was a
mere stunned, purposeless animal, and you
made a man of me once more. You did
not say it in so many words ; but you
showed me that it is nobler to live than to
die, and that only cowards slip out of life,
instead of expiating their sins and follies

los taking the consequences, and letting the
 cause of their downfall become a step to
raise them higher."

She was silent when he had finished,
though the colour flushed into her face, and
her mouth quivered.

I did not know I had been all that to
you," she said at last.

All that and much more. You inspired
me with courage to go away and try to
become more worthy of you than I had
been before."

'' Hush, Oswald!" she said ; " do not talk
so ; I do not like it."

But it is true. It is for your sake, and
in your strength, that I am going now, and
if I succeed it will only be because I cannot
fail with the thought of you to guide me."

How long will you be away ? " she
asked.

Three years ; certainly not more. It
will soon pass."

Yes ; the time goes quickly. You will
write as often as you can ? "

Of course. We shall soon be in regions
from which it will be impossible to get a
letter sent ; but so long as I can I will
send you something. But I am afraid the
greater part of the time you will have no
news of me."

Of course not," with a little laugh,
trying to still the miserable feeling that
would come over her when she thought
that for at least two years she would know
no more of her husband than if he were
dead. He might be in danger, or ill (even
in imagination she never went further than
this), and she would know nothing of it.
She might be enjoying herself in England,
he might be lying in a fever in some

deserted swamp of the dark continent. She
thought of what he had once said, that the
chances were a hundred to one that no man
returned to England to tell the tale of the
hardships and adventures he had had in
africa, and she grew sick and faint with
fear.

Of course Oswald saw nothing of all
this. When he was with Margaret, he
only saw a brave-hearted, cheerful woman,
who never gave way, who had always a
smile for him, or a cheering, helpful word
Ashen he was low spirited. He could not
tell what she went through when she was
alone, and there was no one to see her
break down.

At last the day came on which they were
to be married. Three days after the
wedding Oswald was to sail. About ten
o'clock on the wedding morning, Oswald

came to fetch Margaret in a cab, and they
drove away in the direction of the church.
When they were within a few hundred
yards of their destination, they got out
and walked the remaining distance. Oswald
looked at Margaret with such pertinacity as
they walked along that at last she spoke 

Why do you look at me so, Oswald ?
Are you thinking how bridal ray attire
is ? " suddenly becoming conscious of her
dark brown velvet dress and bonnet, and
equally sombre sealskin jacket.

I was thinking how charming you look.
When I come home, I should like to see
you always dressed exactly as you are
now."

It would be a very uncomfortable dress
for summer," she said, half laughing at his
simplicity, and yet feeling a mist before
her eyes and a sinking at her heart as she

realized how terribly near was Oswald's
departure.

They had reached the church. Oswald
took Margaret's hand to lead her in, and,
after conquering a momentary hesitation,
she walked firmly forward. There was no
delay, the clergyman was waiting, and half
an hour later Margaret Terry was Margaret
Saxenholme, standing by her husband in
the street outside the church. They drove
to the station, from which they took the
train to the remote country village where
they were to pass their two days' honeymoon.


On the evening before Oswald was to
sail they returned to London. Oswald
took Margaret home, and then left her,
saying he had some last things to see to,
and that he would come in the morning
and say '' good-bye " to her.

TOL. II. 20

Then he was gone, and Margaret was
left alone, standing in the passage.

Miss Welford and her sister are upstairs,
miss," said the servant, as Margaret
turned from the door. " They called a few
minutes ago, and when I said I expected
you directly, they said they would come in
and wait."

For a moment Margaret contemplated
going to the girls and telling them she had
a bad headache, and could not sit up with
them. Then she reflected that, after all, it
was perhaps better that she should not
spend the evening alone ; so she went upstairs
to bid her visitors welcome.

As the maid had said, she found both
Elsa and Madge in her pretty sitting-room.
They greeted her with enthusiasm.

We only got home from Brighton
yesterday," said Elsa, who, as usual, spoke

erst ; '" but I really could not exist any
longer without coming to see you, so I
persuaded Madge to come with me, and weare
prepared to spend the evening here, if
you will have us."

 I am very glad to have you. Come
and take off your things," said Margaret,
leading the way to her bedroom.

Truly, the sight of foolish Elsa, with
her pretty little face and aimless chatter,
suddenly grew very welcome to her.

I was so disappointed when your maid
said you were away," ran on Elsa, when
they were back again in the sitting-room.
'' It seemed like a miracle that you should
come home so soon after we had arrived.
Where had you been ? "

'' Into the country for a couple of days,"
answered Margaret, stroking Madge's hand
as the girl sat on a footstool by her own

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Dunois

low clair, and thinking to herself that their
did not look much better for her visit
to the sea,

"- You are looking at Madge," said Elsa.
She does not look as if she had been three-weeks
at Brighton, does she ?  not to mention
six weeks in the heart of Devonshire.
I think she looks awfully ill."

Don't talk nonsense, Elsa," said Madge,
with as near an approach to impatience
as she ever showed. "I am quite well
Don't I look so, Margaret ? "

Quite well, dear," answered Margaret,.
kindly. In reality she thought Madge
was looking terribly delicate, though she
would not for the world have said so before
thoughtless Elsa.

Early in the evening one of Mrs. Wel-ford's
servants came to take the two girls
home, and Margaret was left alone again

with no company but that afforded by her
own sad thoughts.

The next morning Margaret tried to
settle to her work, but in vain. She was
expecting Oswald to come and say " goodbye."
He might come at any moment, and
she could do nothing in her present state
of suspense. She threw down her tools,
and opening the two doors which shut her
three rooms off from one another, she
began to pass from end to end of the space
at her command.

She awaited her husband in an agony of
yearning and apprehension. She longed
to have him near her, and yet when he
came his moments would be numbered ; it
would be time for him to go. Now, when
it was too late, it seemed to her as though,
if she had tried more, she might have kept
him in England ; that, had she only used

the right arguments, they might have
been spared this long separation. She
began to blame herself bitterly for having
let him go so easily, and to cry out against
the decree which bade her remain in
England alone, instead of going with him
and sharing his joys and sorrows, his
dangers and privations.

She was in this frame of mind, when she
heard a cab race up to the door, and a
hasty pull at the bell. She started at the
sound, and instinctively shut both the open
doors and took her place at her work-table
as usual. In another moment Oswald was
in the room.

*' I have only a few minutes to spare,
my darling," he said, kissing her ; ''I have
to meet the other fellows, and the time has
been a little altered, so that I cannot stay
long."

No ; you must not be late," she said,
quietly ; and then they sat side by side,
looking into one another's eyes and hardly
speaking.

At last Oswald looked at his watch, and
rising, said 

My time is up, dearest ; I must go
now."

She was silent ; for an instant she could
not speak. She did not feel the slightest
inclination to shed tears, or otherwise
disgrace herself; only an utter inability
to speak a single word, be it of farewell,
of comfort, or of encouragement.

Good-bye, Oswald," she said at last.

Good-bye, wife. Do not forget me."

Her only answer was a look of boundless
love and trust. Then Oswald took her in
his arms, and kissed her passionately upon
lips and cheeks, and, with another wring

of the hand and another "Farewell," he
was gone.

He ran downstairs, banged the door,
sprang into the cab, and was driven away
to the station to meet his companions  the
other brave spirits who loved a life of
danger and adventure, with possible glory
at the far end, better than ease and comfort
and a fair wife at home. He was gone to
the life he loved best, the life he had
chosen before ever he knew Margaret
Terry ; and Margaret remained at home,
to live out her life as best she might, and
to bear her separation from her husband
unaided by friend or outward circumstances.

CHAPTER IV.

Revolving: things to come."

'&

The first two or three months following
Oswald's departure from England were
perhaps those of all his long absence
during which Margaret felt least anxiety,
least depression concerning the present,
least foreboding and uncertainty concerning
the future. True, her husband was
gone on an expedition which must keep
them apart three long years, during which
she could have no tidings either of his
safety or danger, and from which the possibility
of his non-return was ever lurking
in the dark shadow behind the bright ray

of hope wliicli shone in Margaret's soul.
She was left alone with a secret which, to
one of her nature, must be always painful,
as causing a misapprehension concerning-herself
among her friends ; and the thought
that her husband had gone irrevocably
beyond recall, weighed upon her with, at
times, unbearable force. But she had
known what life she was choosing ; she
had made up her mind that, as Oswald's
wife, she owed it to him to be brave and
of good cheer. Indeed, had she been ever
so disposed to sit down and bewail her lot
with tears and groans, she would have
been unable to indulge in such a luxury.
She had the best panacea for all useless
fretting in her work, and in the knowledge
that she could not afford to be idle.
Whether in consequence of her visit to
Fencehurst, where she had met many rich

and influential people, or whether by no
of those coincidences which are continually
occurring, she could not tell ; but now,
when she needed work most, work was
abundantly given to her. She had as
many orders as she could execute, some of
them giving her opportunity for exercising
all her ingenuity, and requiring much
thought and contrivance.

Philip, who had been absent at the time
of her marriage and had now returned to
London, was again her constant visitor,
rejoicing in her good fortune, and entering
into all her plans with a zeal and enthusiasm
which agreed perfectly with his
rule of confidential adviser, and which
often caused Margaret to feel a pang of
regret and shame that her real circumstances
were so different from what he
imagined. She wished more than ever

that Oswald had allowed her to take Philip
into her confidence. No one in England
knew of her position except Mr. and Mrs.
Bannister, whom Oswald had voluntarily
informed of the step Margaret and he were
taking. They had been very kind, and
had pressed Margaret to give up her
work, and to make one of the family at
Fencehurst until her husband's return.
Margaret, although "unreasonably touched,"
as Oswald had laughingly informed herby
the proposal, had declined it on grounds
which were perfectly sufficient to herself,
though Mrs. Bannister was inclined to find
them ultra-independent. She could not,
she asserted, leave her work and, without
any apparent reason, take up her abode in
idleness at Fencehurst. She assured her
would-be hostess that both she and her
husband would be tired of her long before

the three years were over, though they
would do all in their power to prevent
her making the discovery. Beside this,
Margaret was not blind. She could look
forward into the future as far as her
straining eyes could reach, and she foresaw
many anxious days of suspense and doubt,,
and she knew that her own work would
be a much surer support at such times
than the kindest and truest sympathy from
friends in the quiet, uneventful life which
she would lead at Fencehurst. Mrs. Bannister
was not offended at Margaret's refusal
of her proposal. She admitted
that, though she could not perceive it, her
friend might be right, and she let her
go, only extorting a promise that in any
difficulty she would instantly apply to
her  a promise which Margaret readily
gave.

It will thus be seen that Margaret began
her life of loneliness and probation under
the fairest auspices, with two devoted
friends  a never-failing spring of love in
her heart, and a soul strong to bear whatever
might come upon her.

During these first months of Oswald's
absence his wife had three letters from
him, which were posted at various stages
of his journey while he was still in lands
'Under the civilizing influence of postal
arrangements ; letters which, although she
could send no answers to them, brought
strength and courage to her, and were
kept among her most precious possessions.
Up to a certain point, too, the movements
of the exploring party were intently
followed by curious newspaper reporters,
who delighted to comment upon what had
already been done, and to indulge in dark

hints as to what the future might be expected
to bring forth. So Oswald did not
at once plunge into dark night, no more
to be seen or heard of, but faded away
by degrees, his image growing gradually
fainter and fainter, till he was finally lost
to view in the darkness.

Oswald had been gone some four or five
months before Margaret began to be conscious
of a new hope which was growing
in her, a hope which gradually became a
certainty, and a certainty before which she
alternately thrilled with a wonderful joy
and pride, such as before she had never
dreamed of or imagined, and trembled with
a fear which was as new as the joy to her
nature and comprehension.

It was only Ashen the hope became a
certainty that she allowed her mind to
dwell upon it, and gave herself up to

thoughts and questionings which till now
had been strange to her. It was thus she
was occupied on this bright April afternoon
as she sat alone in her workroom,
her face grave and thoughtful, while her
fingers ceaselessly plied their task. One
of Margaret's peculiarities was that when
unoccupied she could not concentrate her
thoughts on any subject. When she
wanted to think out any situation or
subject she always settled to work of some
kind, and her busy brain and her busy
fingers seemed to work together.

At this moment she was asking herself
what she must do. Clearly, it was her
duty to tell Mrs. Bannister ; that done, she
knew she might lay aside all thought and
worry  she might trust Mrs. Bannister as
she might have done her own mother, had
she been alive.

When she thought of her husband, the
beautiful colour rushed into her cheeks,
and she hid her face in her hands. What
would he say when he came back and
found her a mother, himself a father ?
Pity that he was so far away she could
not let him know. For two years he must
remain a stranger to his child ; would never
know that a child's lips were learning to
frame the word " father," with which to
greet him on his return. All her joy
gave place to pain at the thought, and she
longed for Oswald as she had never longed
for him since he had gone away. What
pleasure would it be to look into lier
baby's eyes, to trace some faint and fleeting
resemblance in its baby features to its
father, to feel the first grasp of its tiny
fingers upon her hand, or to see it turn in
helpless appeal to her its mother, if he

VOL. II. 21

were not by to see these things too ; if she
could not read in his face and voice that
the joy she felt in this new life, which
bound them together by stronger ties than
ever, filled his soul in equal measure with
her own ? Joy and sorrow, a mother's
pride and a wife's longing, struggled for
the mastery in her soul, and the struggle
was reflected in her face as all these
thoughts passed through her mind, till,
throwing aside her tools, she rose hastily
from her chair, and began to pace the
room from end to end.

It was a very fair day. The April sun
shone bright and warm through the open
window, the east wind had departed for a
season, and the soft breeze wafted into the
room the scents of the spring flowers
which filled the pretty boxes on the broad
window-sill. The sky was blue, and the

birds were singing. It seemed a day
made for rejoicing, not for indulging in
dark forebodings ; and Margaret, ever
susceptible to the influence of cloud and
sunshine, ended by driving away her
sorrow and pain, and giving herself up to
happy, hopeful thoughts and visions of
joy in the future.

All things considered, she told herself,
it was perhaps better that Oswald's acquaintance
with his child should be deferred.
Babies were proverbially red-faced
and ugly, to begin with, and it was not
to be expected that a man should see all
the prophetic signs of beauty in a baby's
face which were so apparent to the eyes
of a mother. It was just possible that
Oswald might be disappointed at the first
sight of the baby that would be all in all
to her; whereas he would be certainly

unable to resist that same baby when two
years should have converted it into a
dainty, sweetly smiling child, endowed
with power of speech and laughter, able*
to walk and to express an intelligible
preference for this or that. There was
no lack of comforting details to be found
in the fact of Oswald's absence at the birth
of his child, and Margaret was presently
able to return to her work, the painful
throbbing of her heart stilled, and a quiet
peace in the place of the wild joy and pain
which had shaken her a time before.

She had not been long seated at her
table when her maid came to her, bringing
a card, which she presented to her mistress.
Margaret glanced at the name, and then,
throwing down her tools, hurried into the
sitting-room.

Dear Mrs. Bannister," she began, holding

out both hands to her visitor, " this
is indeed a pleasure ! You are the very
person I most wanted to see."

Exactly my case," replied the lady,
laughing. " It was so long since I had
heard from you, I was afraid you might
he ill ; and as I had to come to London
for a couple of days, I made up my mind
to seek you out."

That was kind. I have been so busy
I have really not had time to write. When
did you come ? "

"Yesterday; and I go back tomorrow.
Laurence wanted me to help him in
choosing a new piano. That business
over, I shall have to go back to Fence-hurst
at once."

I am very glad to see you," repeated
Margaret, clasping her friend's hand, and
feeling suddenly overcome by a shy unwillingness

to speak of the secret which
she had hitherto enjoyed in solitude.

Come with me to Fencehurst," said
Mrs. Bannister presently, in that coaxing
way she was wont to adopt towards
Margaret when she wanted her to do
something, and had only a faint hope of
succeeding in her endeavour.

Not now," answered Margaret, feeling
suddenly that " way had opened " for her
to make her confession. " Perhaps you
will let me choose my own time for a
visit  some time when I shall want more
rest than I do now."

Of course," answered Mrs. Bannister,
a little absently. " I expect every day to
hear that you have overworked yourself
beyond repair, so to speak. I cannot see
why you would not come to me at first,
as I proposed, and stay until Oswald come
back."

"We have already exhausted that subject,"
smiling. " I have something else to
tell you, too. You know why Oswald told
you of our marriage. Will you help me
when the time comes ? "

She leaned forward in her chair as she
spoke ; her eyes, which were fixed wide-open
upon her companion's face, seemed
unusually large and brilliant ; there was
a slight access of colour in her cheeks,
Mrs. Bannister thought she had never
looked more beautiful. The elder lady did
not speak at once ; she only took Margaret's
hands in hers, and bent forward and kissed
her on the forehead, saying 

I am so glad, Margaret."

After that the conversation was carried
on in lowered tones, and the voice of Mrs.
Bannister was more heard than that of
Margaret.

CHAPTER V.

A solemn tiling it is to me
To look upon a babe that sleeps."

There months after Mrs. Bannister had
called upon Margaret and heard her secret,
the two ladies were together in the cottage
of Mrs. Brown, in Hilton, the same cottage
in which Margaret and Oswald had spent
their short honeymoon. It was an intensely
hot day in July, and Margaret was lying
on the couch in Mrs. Brown's best front
parlour, looking pale and weak, it is true,
hut with an expression on her face it had
surely never worn before. By the side of
the couch, within reach of her outstretched

hand, stood a dainty bassinette, in which,
under the shelter of lace curtains and
delicately fine coverings, lay a baby boy
some three weeks old, sleeping now, but
who might at any moment open its eyes
and turn them upon its mother. Perhaps it
was in order not to miss the first unclosing
of those wonderful eyes, the first reawakening
of intelligence in the tiny face,
that Margaret lay with her eyes fixed upon
the cradle, while the thought of her baby
filled her mind so completely that she did
not hear a woman's footstep which fell
lightly upon the somewhat thin' carpet
covering the flagged floor.

Baby worshipping as usual, Margaret?"
cried a gay voice from the other side of
the room. " I have seen a good many first
babies, but never one that occupied its
mother's attention so much as yours does."

Margaret turned at the sound of her
friend's voice, saying quickly, in a voice
which hardly rose above a whisper 

"Do not wake him ; I like to see him
wake gradually by himself."

Of course," replied Mrs. Bannister,
checking the low laugh she could not
altogether suppress ; " you like to see him
wake, fall asleep, eat, drink, do everything
he has to do. I believe you grudge the
hours you yourself have to give to sleep,
because they are so much time taken from
the contemplation of your baby."

It is quite possible," replied Margaret,
looking up with a smile upon her face, half
tender, half mischievous, at the lady who
stood by her side.

On the whole," went on Mrs. Bannister,
drawing nearer the couch, and seating herself
in the low rocking-chair that stood

beside it, ''I think it is just as well that
Oswald is away. If he were here, I am sure
he would be frightfully jealous ; you cannot
look at any one, or think of anything,
except the baby."

Perhaps if Oswald were here I should
not think quite so much of the child. I
look upon it as Oswald's representative.
Since Oswald is not here, it is all I have."

That is very clear ; but, I assure you,-
you overdo it. Even Dr. Mills, when
he went away this morning, made some
jesting remark upon your extreme devotion."


Margaret coloured slightly, but stood
her ground bravely, saying 

What do men know about such things ?
A mother's feelings must be Hebrew and
Greek to them. Even you cannot fully
enter into them, because"  sinking her voice

to a tone of tender pity  " yon have never
had a child."

"True; besides," stroking Margaret's
hand and smiling, " I was only teasing
yon. In reality, I think I never saw a
more beautiful sight than you with your
baby in your arms, and I believe I am
almost as fond of it as you are."

Margaret smiled without replying; a
moment later she said 

"While you were out in the garden, I
have been thinking about the future. I
think I can go back to my work in a
week."

Mrs. Bannister smiled in lofty scorn.

You put yourself under my care, Margaret,
and if you suppose I shall sanction
any such absurd plans, you are quite mistaken."


But, you know "

I know that you will not be fit to begin
working again for another month. If you
choose to leave this place in a week, I shall
be quite willing to accompany you. You
can bring the baby to Fencehurst, and we
will stay there till the weather is cool, and
you are more fit to return to London."

As usual, you are far kinder than I
deserve," replied Margaret ; " but it is my
duty to go back to London as soon as I
can, and I must do so."

You have your duty to your child to
consider now, as well as what you are
pleased to call your duty to yourself. You
forget that if you overwork yourself, or
begin working too soon, you will not have
to bear the consequences alone. I should
not have thought you had been willing to
leave the child so soon."

-' Willing ! " echoed Margaret, in a tone

of mingled indignation and interrogation.
That is so absurd an idea there is no need
to speak further of it. But I must leave
him sometime, and I think the longer I put
off the parting the harder it will be when
it does come."

Mrs. Bannister was silent for a moment ;
when she spoke again it was to say 

Of course the child will come with me
to Fencehurst."

She spoke as if it were a settled thing.
She had a theory that, when attacking a
matter of uncertainty, it was always best to
begin as though there could be only one
opinion about it. In this way you were
sure to intimidate your opponent, and gain
a rapid victory.

But Margaret was not to be intimidated.
She had foreseen this proposal, and made
up her mind how to meet it, so she replied
readily 

You overwhelm me with kindness.
How conch I possibly impose such a burden
upon you ? "

"A very small burden," glancing with
n smile at the bassinette and its tiny
occupant.

A burden that would grow. Besides,
I am sure you are speaking in your own
name only, and not in that of Mr. Bannister."


There is no need to speak to him about
it ; he will be only too happy to be of any
use to you."

There is a limit to what our friends
will do for us, as there is a limit to what
we may ask from them. I could not think
of trespassing on Mr. Bannister's kindness,
even if he had expressed his willingness to
take little Eustace, which he has not. Men
look at these things in a different light

from women, and so, though I know you
would like to have baby, I shall not inflict
him upon you."

You are the most headstrong girl I
ever met. I believe you have planned how
to act on every occasion, foreseen and unforeseen,
during your whole life, and
nothing will move you from your purpose.
If I may not have the child, may I ask
what you are going to do with it ? "

"I am going to leave it here. I have
already spoken to Mrs. Brown about it.
She was for years a servant in my grandfather's
house ; she knew my father, and she
is fond of me. She has had children of
her own, and will understand how to take
care of baby. He will be brought up upon
country food, and in country air. This place
is only an hour by rail from town ; I can
run down whenever I like, and see for

myself that Eustace is being properly
looked after : lie will be always within my
reach. Do you not see that my reasons
are sufficient ? "

I see exactly what I am intended to
see' answered ber friend, " and that is, you
will not let me bave Eustace."

Here the discussion dropped, for the
baby woke up, and Margaret became too
much occupied with it to be able to. give
ber attention to anything else.

The weeks passed, but Margaret did not
go to Fencehnrst. She was happier where
she was. This place had memories for
her which could not be effaced, memories
far dearer than any which clustered round
Fencehurst. If at the latter place she had
first met Oswald, had loved him, and consented
to share his life, here she had passed
those days which had intervened between

VOL. II. 22

her marriage and Oswald's going away.
Here, in this very same room in which she
now sat with her baby in her arms, she
and Oswald had spent the last evening they
were to pass together before he left England
; here they had whispered courage
and steadfastness to one another ; here each
had promised not to lose hope or faith,
though the time of separation might belong
and the days dark before they met
again. In Margaret's eyes there was something
sacred about this little shabby cottage
parlour, with its cheap furniture, hideous
carpet, and almost impossibly ugly ornaments.
The little, narrow garden, now
full of vegetables and common cottage
flowers, was the same in which she and
Oswald had sat one mild November morning
nearly a year ago, and which they had
found very fair, though bare of flowers, and

though nothing but the lately turned brown
earth lay around them. For all these
reasons she liked the little cottage better
than the stately mansion at Fencehurst,
and she was well content to remain there
until she was strong enough to go back
to her work in London.

It was fortunate that Philip happened
to be away at this precise time. He was
the only one of her friends who had the
right to inquire into the reason for her
choice of this particular place in which to
spend her summer holiday, or to comment
upon that holiday being unusually long,
considering Margaret's devotion to her
work.

Margaret would not have been the
woman she was if she had not often felt
deep regret that Philip did not know of
her marriage, and often wished that she

had won Oswald's consent to tell him of
it. Philip would have a just right to be
hurt when it eventually transpired that
she was married and had a son. It hurt
her that she should have reason to be glad
at Philip's absence at this particular time,
that she was conscious of a hope that he
would not be in England again until she
was re-established in her workroom. However,
the mischief was done ; she had
given her promise to Oswald that Philip
should not be told, and she would keep
her promise, whatever pain it might cause
her.

Apart from, this regret, and the fact that
Oswald was away at this supreme moment
of her life, there was nothing to hinder
her speedy restoration to perfect health,
and under the watchful care of Mrs.
Bannister she made rapid progress. A

week after the clay on which we saw herat
the beginning of this chapter, watching
with eager eyes for her baby to wake, she
had been several times into the garden,
and once for a short walk beyond its
narrow limits. The clergyman and his
wife, agreeable, kind-hearted people, had
called several times, and completely won
Margaret's heart by their goodness to herself
and their admiration of her baby. They
did not know anything of her beyond her
name, and as it did not occur to them to
connect it with the name that had been in
every one's mouth a year before, the name
of Mrs. Saxenholme meant nothing to
them. But the peaceful, idle time of convalescence
came to an end. In the course
of time even Mrs. Bannister could no
longer deny that Margaret was again incomplete
enjoyment of her usual perfect

health. The parting from little Eustace
had to be gone through. He was left, with
many anxious, tender injunctions as to his
health, in the care of Mrs. Brown, and Margaret
and Mrs. Bannister went to London,
which, after spending one night with
Margaret, the latter left to pursue her
northward journey to Fencehurst.

So Margaret was settled in her old
quarters, and she tried to take up her life
just where she had laid it down. Partly
she succeeded, because, with her strong,
healthy nature, she was able to a great
extent to throw aside any morbid longings
for what she might not have ; partly because,
with one exception, the conditions of her life
were the same as before her holiday. Her
daily routine and surroundings were precisely
what they had been before, and it
seemed sometimes hard to believe in the

existence of a child whose name was never
spoken to or by her. But the knowledge
of her baby's existence was there all the
same, and the thought of and companionship
with the child saved her during many
a dark hour of depression and hopelessness
as to the return of its father.

Whatever comes," she would say to
herself, " I have Eustace, even if it should
be, when Oswald and I said ' goodbye,'
we said it for ever. I have his son to
bring up as she would have wished, and to
fill, in some measure, his father's place."

CHAPTER VI.

'* As a star from the sea new risen,
As a waft from an angel's wing,
As a lark's song heard in prison,

As the promise of summer in spring,
She came to me through the stillness,
The shadows that ring me round."

Perfect loveliness
Untouched hy passion."

It was more than a year since the birth
of her boy had in some measure filled up
the void made in Margaret's heart by the
absence of her husband. In fact, she was
now beginning to look forward with confidence
to his return. More than two years
had passed since he went away, and she,
at any rate, was among those who believed

that the three years which had been fixed
as the term of the expedition would seethe
explorers back again in England. At
the same time, she was not always equally
brave and hopeful. Spite of little Eustace,
who was a charming child, she longed for
her husband, and rebelled against her lot
in life.

But she loved her husband very truly,
and his departure had been a great grief
to her. As the months rolled away, and
each one left her as much in ignorance of
his proceedings as the preceding one, her
courage did sometimes give way, her old
fits of depression fell very heavily upon
her, and at those times she thought things
from which in her more natural frame of
mind she would have shrunk.

What was the use of life," she thought,
"to a woman whose marriage was a secret,

which she had promised to reveal to no
one ; whose husband had gone away three-days
after their wedding, and from whom,
during a year, she had had no word or
sign to show that he was having ? " It
was true, she had chosen her own Hfe ;
whatever she suffered she had brought on
herself, and might have avoided had she
chosen. Still, she thought sometimes
wearily, her life was so lonely and so unlovely,
what was the use of it ? What if
she were successful and earned a great deal
of money ? She did not care for money,
and it would all end the same whether she
were rich or poor. Other women had
fathers or brothers to fend for them, or
mothers and sisters to cheer them with
sympathy and love ; but she had no relations,
only a friend, and he a man, and
a man was not good for everything.

In such a mood she was one February
evening, as she walked homewards through
the streets. She had been out shopping,
and had spent more time over it than she
had been aware of, so that it was growing
dusk as she began her homeward journey.
She had accumulated one little parcel after
another, till her arms were laden, and she
could not hold together her long fur cloak,
which blew open round her and left her
fully exposed to the cold. She had boldly
determined to walk home, and now the-feeble
February sun had withdrawn its
rays, and a thick, drizzling rain was falling,
rendering the London streets unspeakably
disagreeable. To add to her misery,
Margaret had no umbrella, and no one of
the people who passed by was charitable
enough to offer her a share of his. She
was thinking dismally enough of the lonely

evening she must spend when she got
home, for Philip was out of town, and it
was not likely that either Madge or Elsa
would come out on such an evening as
this. She did not either feel as though
she should care for their society ; she
wanted some one who would amuse her,
and put her into good humour with herself
and the world again.

As she thus meditated she heard a quick,
light step behind her, and felt the lightest
possible touch on her shoulder, while a
voice at her side said 

Let me help you to carry your parcels.
You seem to have more than your natural
share."

Margaret turned round quickly. The
voice was a woman's, quick, clear, and
decided, and had even a sound of laughter
in it, as though the speaker had been

watching Margaret's slow and weary progress
with some amusement.

You have no umbrella either," continued
the lady. " If you will let me take
half your parcels, and will accept a share
of my umbrella in exchange, I shall feel
that I am doing my duty."

You are very good," said Margaret,
gratefully, " but I do not like to trouble
you."

It Avill be no trouble. I shall only be
fulfilling the Scriptures, which say, ' Bear
ye one another's burdens ; ' " and as she
spoke she quietly relieved Margaret of
some of her things, and they walked onside
by side.

There was something in the stranger's
voice, careless and cool, and which had,
moreover, a northern ring in it, which
appealed to Margaret's heart, and made

her wish to hear it again; so she
said 

"I hope I am not taking you ont of
your way."

So far our roads seem to lie together,
and I have plenty of time, and do not
mind being out in the rain  when I have
an umbrella," laughing.

Margaret laughed too, and they walked
on in silence. Margaret could not see
what her companion was like. She saw
that she was tall  as. tall as herself, and,
so far as the gathering dusk permitted her
to tell, she had dark hair and was dressed
in dark colours.

They hardly spoke until they reached
Margaret's home. Here she paused, and
turning to her companion, said 

I am at home now. I am so much
obliged for your kindness."

Pray don't mention it," said the other,
preparing to go on.

But you are not going! " cried Margaret,
quickly. " Please come in, and let me give
you a cup of tea. If you are going on to
the station, I am sure you need some."

Thank you," shutting up her umbrella.
Your offer sounds inviting. I should
regard it as in the highest degree irreligious
to refuse it what the vulgar call flying
in the face of Providence.' "

Meanwhile, Margaret had been searching
in her various pockets for her latch-key.
She now fitted it into the keyhole, and,
opening the door, entered the house with
her companion.

In the hall they were met by the servant,
who told Margaret that there was a lady
upstairs who had been waiting for Hier
return about half an hour.

Who is it ? " asked Margaret. " Did
she give you no card ? "

"It is Miss Foster, miss." answered the
servant, naming a lady who frequently
gave Margaret orders, and who generally
came to give them in person.

Margaret went upstairs, followed by her
companion, and went forward to her workroom,
saying 

Will you excuse my leaving you here
for a moment ? A lady has called to seeme
on business, but I hope she won't keep
me more than a few minutes."

Don't apologize, please. I shall do
very well here."

Left alone, the girl threw back her veil
and let her keen, brilliant eyes wander
round the room. It was just as Margaret
had left it when she went out early in the
afternoon : her tools lay scattered on the

table in the window, and the floor was
strewn with chips and shavings. In the
middle of the room stood a tall oak cabinet
of antique shape, one of the doors of which
was half carved over with a quaint design.
The room looked thoroughly workman-like,
though also comfortable enough, for the
fire was burning brightly, and at one side
of the hearth stood a large deep armchair,
which looked very inviting, and into which
the lady threw herself, and leaned back in
its capacious depths, thinking 

This is an adventure.! I wonder who
this girl may be, and whether this room
belongs to herself, or her father, or brother,
or husband, or whom. At any rate, I
seem to have penetrated into a house
whose inhabitants pursue the art of wood-carving,
which is more romantic than
teaching music or dancing. There is a

YOL. ir. 23

smack of something Bohemian and un-english
about it that rather attracts me.
I shall be glad when the tea comes,
though ; I am very thirsty."

At this moment the door of communication
between the workroom and sitting-room
opened, and Margaret reappeared.

Miss Foster has gone now," she said.
' Will you come into the other room ? "

The visitor rose, and they went into the
other room together. Margaret pushed an
easy-chair to the fire, and begged her
unknown guest to be seated ; then she
rang the bell, and in a few moments they
were taking tea together.

This happens most opportunely," began
the stranger. " I had been in town all the
afternoon, and was wondering if I should
resist being decoyed into a restaurant and
wasting my time there."

Do you not live in London, then ? "
asked Margaret.

No ; I live in one of the suburbs 
Fullerton."

Dullerton ? I have heard it is a place
that does credit to its name."

The other laughed. "It is certainly
dull enough; but," with a little shrug of
the shoulders, " one lives where one cannot
where one will."

You are philosophical."

What is the use of being anything
else?"

Margaret did not answer ; and as her
companion was also silent, looking into
the fire, Margaret took the opportunity to
examine her face. The girl was sitting in
the full light of the lamp. She had, on
first entering the room, thrown off her hat,
with a word of apology for the liberty

taken, and so her face was fully disclosed
to her hostess.

Margaret then saw before her a girl
who looked twenty-one or 
of age ; in reality, she was only
twenty-one. Margaret knew that she was
tall ; she now saw that the figure lying
back in the easy-chair was slender and
exceedingly graceful. The girl's face was
pale ; there was hardly a trace of colour
on the fine, white skin. Her features were
aquiline, and very clearly and firmly cut.
The mouth, with its firmly closed, red lips,
was very proud and a little scornful ; her
chin was square and short. As the girl
had taken off her hat, Margaret could seethe
raven black hair which " curled tempestuously
" at the temples, though there
was no attempt at a fringe. On the contrary,
the hair was brushed loosely back

from the broad, high forehead, and plaited
into a coronet at the top of the head.
This face was lighted by dark blue eyes,
flashing, brilliant, and keen as those of the
hawk. The hand that held the teacup was
long and white and slender.

It was a beautiful face ;. if it had a fault
it was that it looked hard. Angel looked
as though she had never cared for any one
in her life. There was no softness in the
candid eyes; the curved lips looked as
though they had never uttered one affectionate
word since the time when they
lisped their first baby syllables. But what
struck Margaret almost more than the
girl's beauty was her marvellous neatness.
She was dressed all in black, and from the
tips of her dainty laced boots to the long
black feather in her velvet hat, there was
not a stitch or a button or a fold out of

place. Later, Margaret found this neatness
was a part of the girl's nature ; at
first, it surprised and somewhat oppressed
her.

Suddenly the girl turned her blue eyes
from the fire, and, fixing them on Margaret
said 

After all, don't you think it would
facilitate matters if we were to introduce
ourselves ? I should like to know to whom
I am indebted for this delightful cup of
tea."

Yes," said her hostess. " My name is
Margaret Terry."

It did not for a moment occur to her
that she was not telling the truth. Sometimes
she forgot she was no longer Miss
Terry. No one had ever called her by her
married name, and she would have been in
the highest degree astonished if any one

had addressed her as Mrs. Saxenholme.
So with a blameless conscience she said
serenely

My name is Margaret Terry."

And mine," returned the other, "is
Angela Darling."

Angela Darling ! " repeated Margaret,
involuntarily. " What a charming name ! "

Do you think so ?" indifferently. " My
friends call me ' Angel.' Shall you think
me very impertinent," she went on, " if I
say that wien you left me in the other
room, I examined all the tools there, and
that cabinet ? Are they yours ? Do you
spend your time in carving wood ? "

Yes ; it is the way I earn my living."

Ah ! have you to work too ? So have
I ; but I do nothing so interesting as
carving wood. I am a governess."

She spoke in much the same tone as she

might have used had she said, " I am a
worm," and she folded her hands in her
lap, looking at Margaret as much as to
say, "Did you ever hear anything so
grotesque ? "

I have always thought that could not
be a pleasant life," said Margaret, doubtfully.


You were not mistaken. It is one of
the few ideas that do not lose by realization.
However disagreeable you may
imagine a governess's life to be, when it
becomes your own you will find ten thousand
more disagreeable things in it."

Do you teach in a school ? "

" I am on the staff of teachers at the
Dullerton High School for girls. I teach
languages, nothing else ; it is not exciting."


Do you teach there all day ? " questioned

Margaret, who found herself taking
a great interest in Miss Darling's occupation.


No, only in the morning ; in the afternoon
I give lessons in another school, and
in one or two families. For one of the
lessons I have to come into town."

Were you returning from it when you
overtook me ? "

No ; I had been to a lecture. I come
to town once a week to attend a course of
lectures on teaching. So far, I cannot say
they have furnished me with any very
brilliant ideas, but I dare say Professor
Wilkinson is quite satisfied with the way
he delivers them."

Again Margaret heard the little sarcastic
laugh, again saw the contemptuous down-drawing
of the mouth.

Do you live alone ? " asked Angel,

after a pause employing in drawing on her
long kid glove.'

Quite alone," answered Margaret.

You must feel very lonely at times ; or
perhaps you have many friends ? "

On the contrary, very few. I was
wishing I had more when -ou spoke tome
this afternoon."

"You had better take me for your
friend ; you might do worse. People who
know me pay me the compliment of saying
I am amusing. What do you say ? "

Then, without waiting for Margaret to
answer, she began to talk of something
quite different, and the conversation was
carried on amid much laughter on both
sides, and Margaret admitted to herself
that Angel's friends had only done her
justice. She was amusing and witty and
clever, and by the time they had been

talking half an hour, Margaret was feeling
a very different being from the lonely, sad,
and depressed woman who had struggled
along the streets through the wind and
rain.

Presently, however. Angel looked at her
watch, and rose, saying 

I must go now ; I have only just time
to catch my train."

I was hoping you would stay and spend
the evening with me," said Margaret,
rising too.

You are very kind, but I have a great
deal of work to do when I get home. I
ought not to have stayed so long as I have
done."

I hope we are not going to say ' goodbye'
for always," said Margaret, as she
held out her hand. " Won't you do me-the
kindness to come and see me again ? "

I shall be very glad. There are a great
many things I should like to say to you.
I fancy we should get on together. I want
so much to know all about your carving.
Will you show me what you do if I come
again ? "

"With all the pleasure in the world,"
said Margaret, accompanying Miss Darling
downstairs. " Come again soon. You are
almost sure to find me at home. I go out
very little."

"I shall take you at your word," said
Angel, as she stepped into the street,
leaving Margaret standing alone at the
open door.

She went upstairs and stirred the fire,
while she stood beside it, thinking. Her
room wore so much its usual aspect, she
could hardly believe she had not dreamt
about Angela Darling. It was only the

sight of two empty teacups instead of one
that drove her at last to the conclusion that
her visitor had really existed in the flesh,
and had not been a phantom of her own
brain, grown confused with much sadness
and thinking and solitude.

CHAPTER VII.

Yet, as I looked and saw thee stand
'Twixt sun and shade, with lifted hand

And bright eyes blue,
"With curving lips half opened free.
And hair that curled tempestuously,

And heightened hue,

Into my soul of souls a god
With wild fire flew, and flaming trod
Her secret shrine."

During the next few weeks Margaret saw
a great deal of her new friend. Miss
Darling visited her often. Sometimes she
broke in upon her solitude like an angel
unawares ; at other times she sent little
notes, saying she was coming into town
to do some shopping, and asking Margaret

to meet her and go with her on her various
errands. On these occasions the day
usually ended in Margaret's sitting-room.

But whether expected or unexpected,
Angel was always welcome. Margaret
grew to look for her coming with a feeling
almost of longing. Angel's gay, gladsome
presence brightened Margaret's life endlessly.
She had, in fact, taken Margaret
by storm ; she had surprised her out of
her usual reserve. Margaret, who was
generally so long in holding out the right
hand of friendship, had not seen Angel
many times before she felt she could no
longer withhold her love and confidence.

They had soon slipped out of "" Miss
Terry " and " Miss Darling," into the more
familiar " Angel " and " Margaret," and as
she grew to know her better, Margaret got
accustomed to Angel's manner. The careless,

cynical speeches, and utter indifference
to and ridicule of all passion or enthusiasm,,
which Margaret had at first thought only
affected and unreal, she soon saw were the
manifestations of Angel's real nature. The
girl's scepticism and sarcasm arose, not
from any desire to hide her own enthusiasm
and warmth of heart, but from the total
absence of all such qualities in her. It i&
easily seen that their natures were very
dissimilar, but nevertheless they became
true friends. Angel might laugh at Margaret,
and call her a study for her earnest
enthusiasm for high and noble things, but
she had an unfeigned admiration for her
all the same, and would not have had her
one whit different from what she was.
Margaret, on her side, could only feel
attracted by the strength and brilliancy
of Angel's character, though it was the

strength of steel, not of iron ; the cold
brilliancy of the diamond, not the warm
glow of the ruby.

Margaret was, in fact, very enthusiastic
about her new friend. She talked about
her a great deal to Philip, and reported
her sayings and described her beauty so
minutely that Philip said sometimes, laughingly,
that he should know Miss Darling
if he were to hear her speak without
seeing her, or if he were to meet her
casually in the street. Margaret's descriptions,
however, roused his curiosity, and
he admitted that he should like to make
Miss Darling's acquaintance.

Naturally, she often spoke of Philip to
Angel, but here she entirely failed to rouse
any curiosity. Angel listened when she
spoke of Philip with polite attention, but
the most perfect indifference. She did not

VOL. II. 24

care for men, she said ; she had never seen
anything particularly superior or fascinating
in any she had ever met, and she could
not understand that Mr. Welford should
be immeasurably above the rest of his sex ,
When urged by Margaret to say whether
she did not wish to know Philip, she
replied 

Oh yes, if you like ; I don't mind
either one way or another. I don't suppose
he will be any different from lots of other
men I have known."

Does he come to see you often, this
Mr. Welford ? " she asked one day.

Yes, very often. It is odd he has
never happened to call when you have
been here. It is certainly true that he
generally comes in the evening, and you
go home early. I wish he would come in
some afternoon."

'' Pray don't ask him to disturb himself
on my account," Angel had said, carelessly,
as she rose to go. " I hate people to put
themselves out of the way for me. For
myself, I hope the Fates may keep us well
:apart."

Why, Angel ? "

"We are very comfortable as we are,
and men are so clumsy, and take up so
much room. I have no overwhelming
desire to know your Mr. Welford."

And she went away, leaving Margaret
to wonder whether her indifference was
real or assumed.

Spring was early that year ; though only
April, the trees were well forward. One
brilliantly fine day, early in the afternoon,
Margaret stood at her workroom window.
She had that morning packed up and sent
home a piece of work, and she was now

thinking, she might give herself a holiday,,
only how should she spend it ?

Thursday," she thought, and paused.
Presently her face brightened, as she went
on half aloud, " It is one of Angel's free
afternoons. I will go out to Dullerton, and
ask her to go somewhere with me. I have
just time to catch the 2.15 train," she concluded,
looking at her watch.

She went into her room, and put on her
things ; then walked to the station, and
caught the 2.15 train to Dullerton.

Arrived at Dullerton, she walked away
from the station in the direction of Angel's
lodgings. She had never been there
before, but she knew the address, and knew
also that she had not far to walk. So she
took her way under the railway bridge,
and followed the road that led straight
before her. sloping gently upwards, until

.she came to the point where it divided into
two, and where the Dullerton High School
for girls stood  a large, square, barrack
like building, without any pretensions to
beauty. Margaret now took the road
branching off to the right, and, after following
it for a little way, turned off at a road
lying again on her right, one side of
which was bordered by a row of neat brick
tenements, in one of the furthest of which
Angel lodged.

Margaret mounted the steps of the house
and rang the bell, asking if Miss Darling-was
at home. The girl who answered her
summons said that Miss Darling had not
yet come in, though she might return at
any minute. She invited Margaret to
enter, and showed her into Angel's sitting-room.


Margaret looked round with some

curiosity : she felt interested in knowing
how Angel lived. She saw a medium-sized
room, furnished very much like other
lodging-house sitting-rooms. There was a
square table in the middle of the room,
covered with a cloth having a black and
green pattern. Chairs stood round the-room,
one more or less easy on either side
of the fireplace ; there was also a couch
and a small sideboard. Such must have
been the appearance of the room when
Angel first began to live in it. Her inventive
and decorative genius, however,
had effected great changes. Several beautiful
photographs hung on the walls or
stood in frames about the room. The table
was covered with exercise-books, some of
which lay open. Margaret glanced at
them : they were French, German, and
Latin exercises in various stages of correction.

There were books everywhere  on
the tables, the couch, the chairs, the floor ;
two pretty and capacious bookshelves were
also well filled. Margaret examined them
all with interest. Angel seldom spoke of
books in terms of enthusiasm, and Margaret
had never been able to find out what
books she liked, and what she did not care
for. She found the present collection a
miscellaneous one. There were a great
many class and text books in various languages,
besides many others of a different
character.

Miss Terry was still satisfying her
curiosity when she heard light, swift steps
ascending the steps outside. The front
door was hastily opened, and the next
moment Angel stood beside her. She had
evidently not expected to see any one in
her room, and she paused when she saw

her visitor ; but she recovered in a moment,
and said 

Margaret ! this is delightful ! "

I came to ask you to come and spend
this afternoon with me somewhere in the
country. Is not this one of your free
afternoons ? "

It is," answered Angel, throwing herself
into the easy-chair opposite Margaret.
*' I am at your service, and will go anywhere
you like, only say where. Where
shall we go ? What shall we do ? And
how shall we do it ? "

She laughed as she spoke. She lay
back in her easy-chair, looking very
lovely, and at this moment supremely
idle.

"I am so glad you have come," she
repeated.

Are there any pretty places near here,

or must we go somewhere by train ? " said
Margaret, rousing herself.

"' Let us go as far from here as we can.
I could go every walk within twelve miles
of this place blindfold on the darkest
night. Let us go somewhere by train ; let
us go to Dene Park."

Margaret agreed, and ere long they
were again in the train, sweeping along
to Dene Park through the sweet spring
afternoon.

Were you always a governess, Angel ? "
asked Margaret, as they paced the soft turf
in Dene Park.

My dear Margaret, recollect yourself !
Consider how long it is since I wore
pinafores."

"' Xo ; what I meant was, have you
known all your life that you were going
to be a governess ? "

'* What makes you ask ? "

"You don't look as if you had, that
is all."

Well, you happen to be right in my
case, though I cannot see why a girl, who
has been brought up in the knowledge
that she is to be a governess, should look
different from every one else. I was
brought up in affluence, and, until three
year ago, had every chance of being a rich
woman."

But you told me not long ago that
your mother is not well off."

No more she is. Poor mother ! she
is very badly off, and was in despair when
she found out what I had done by what
she called my 'flippant levity' and my
'reckless independence.' This was how
it came about. I told you once, as you
may remember, that my father died years

ago ; I can hardly recollect him. He had
a brother a great deal older than himself,
who got rich while my father remained
poor. My father was not a business man
and his affairs went from bad to worse 
until he had to bring himself to ask his
brother for help. He was very proud, and
it was a hard thing to do, but he imagined
it was his duty. Uncle Anthony wa
quite willing to help his brother, but he
would only do it in his own way. He
said he would adopt one of us, and she
should be his heiress : he was not married.
Mother would not let Laura, my eldest
sister, go. She was mother's ' right hand,'
whatever that may mean, and could not
be spared; neither did Uncle Anthony
like her. Syb was not born then, so only
I remained. Uncle Anthony had been my
godfather  he had called me Angela  and

lie chose me. He took me in, and did
for me from that time forth. All went
well so long as I was a child, though I
remember that even then I disliked my
position, and felt in a kind of bondage.
As I grew older the feeling increased ; I
longed to be free. I did not want his
money ; the thought of it seemed to weigh
me down. I did not care if he divided
his sortie among all the other people in
the place and only left me out. Finally,
I made myself so obnoxious to him that
he rebelled, burnt his will in my presence,
and solemnly sent for his lawyer to draw
up a fresh one."

And did he never change his mind ? "
asked Margaret, with interest.

For Angel, though apparently the most
communicative of people, seldom talked
about herself or her own circumstances.

"Never. He made his last will in
favour of some one else, and never altered
it. In the end it did not matter, for
before uncle died the money was all lost
in that grand smash of Saxenholme's-
Bank."

Margaret looked up, startled. " In
Saxenholme's Bank ! " she repeated.

"Yes. What a crash that was, was it
not? I think I never heard of anything
more disgraceful ; it aroused even me to
excitement. Saxenholme and his son did
not get half what they deserved. Do you
think so ? ''

They got off easily, certainly. But
there were two sons, one of whom was
not to blame ; he had only lately begun
business in the bank."

Yes ; I remember hearing about him.
A younger son, was he not ? It was rather

a blow to his prospects, I should think.
Some one said he was engaged. Of course,
the marriage would be broken off."

Why should it have been ? " asked
Margaret, with a hasty passing wonder as
to how the report of Oswald's engagement
had got abroad. "If he were not inculpated,"
she went on, her heart beating
fast  " and every one I have heard speak
of the affair completely exonerated him 
there could be no guilt attached to him,
and no reason why he should not have
been married. You surely do not think
an innocent man ought to be outlawed
because his father has committed a crime ? "

How excited you are getting ! " said
Angel, laughing easily. " No ; that is
not what I mean. I mean that there is
not one girl in a thousand who would
have had the courage and spirit to marry

him. Girls are poor creatures on the
whole, and can't bear any tribulation.
They take their husbands for better or
worse ; but they feel very ill used if he
does not give them only of the best, and
if a shadow of ' worse ' comes near
them."

Margaret's cheeks glowed as she heard
Angel's words. She had hardly hoped so
direct a speech of approval of what she
had done from Angel, who laughed at
love, and regarded marriage as a giving
up of liberty.

Then, had you been engaged to him,
you would have married him ? " she
-asked.

I would have been true to him certainly,
even though he had persisted in
making one of that exploration party.
But there ! his sweet doll may have felt

that her love and fidelity would uot stand
the test of a three years' absence and complete
separation."

You seem to know a great deal about
him," said Margaret.

The man who told me knew him pretty
well," replied Angel.

But suppose," went on Margaret, eager
to learn more of what Angel thought,
Mr. Saxenholme released the girl himself
from her engagement. He may have
thought it would be selfish to keep her
bound to him all that time."

In that case," said Angel, decidedly,
"he might have taken his freedom and
welcome. I would have nothing to do
with any man who wanted to give me
up, or who thought so poorly of me as
to imagine I could not be as strong and
true as himself."

Margaret made no reply, and the subject
dropped ; but she could not banish the
matter from her thoughts. Angel's first
speech had warmed her heart, and made
her feel that when Miss Darling should
know all, she would understand why
Margaret had acted as she had done. But
when the girl went on to say, ' If he had
wanted his freedom, he might have taken
it and welcome," her heart sank again,
and she began to ask herself a question
which had been haunting her lately, " Did
I do right? Would it not have been
better to let him go free, instead of saddling
him with a wife ? "

In order to drive away such thoughts,
she turned to Angel again, and said 

"Was it after your uncle had altered
his will that you decided to become a
governess ? "

TOL. II. 25

"Yes; I could not go back to mother.
Of course father had been dead some years
then, and she had enough to do with her
money. I went on to the continent for a
year, and then began teaching."

I suppose your uncle is dead ? "

Yes ; as the Dissenters say, he went
to his long hoiiie soon after I came back
from the continent."

They were silent again. They were
climbing a rise in the ground dignified
in the flat country round London by the
name of a hill, and now took possession
of a seat at the top. To the south lay
London, huge and dirty, a smoke-cloud
lowered over it, though so far out as they
were the sky was cloudlessly blue. The
trees were green and fresh ; a lark was
trilling his afternoon song high above
llieir heads ; and in the country stillness

they could hear the hum of insects, now
waking from their long winter sleep.

The two girls sat talking, while the time
slipped by and the shadows began to
lengthen on the fields and gardens. Angel,
looking round, said 

'' I am going to mount to that highest
point of the hill and watch the sun set.
Will you come, too ?"

But Margaret answered that she was
very happy where she was, and would sit
still till Angel returned.

The girl went away, up the steep stony
path to the peak, and Margaret saw her
stand, a graceful, grey-clad figure, between
the sunlight and the shade, shielding her
eyes with her hand, looking Londoners.

Then, as Margaret sat idly musing on
this and that, she heard a quick step
coming down the steep path which passed

the bench where she was sitting. She did
not take her eyes from the landscape
spread before her, until the steps paused,
and a well-known voice said at her side 

"Good evening, Margaret. Wake up
from your dreams."

She started. She had been thinking of
Oswald, and now she saw Philip standing
before her.

Philip ! " she cried, holding out her
hand ; " you are the last person I expected
to see. What brought you here ? "

The desire to enjoy this spring afternoon.
I suppose you came for the same
purpose ? "

Yes," she replied ; and then Philip
went on quickly, in a slightly lowered
voice 

Who is that girl standing at the top
of the hill ? Is she a friend of yours ? "

Of course," eagerly. " That is mj
friend, Angel Darling. At last you will
meet. Did you see her ? What did you
think of her ? "

He laughed. " I could not stare her in
the face, but I looked at her, and I thought
she was very beautiful."

Is she not ? I am so glad you are
here. I want my two friends to know
each other."

Suppose we don't get on at all ? "

But I think you will. You are sure to
like Angel ; she is so clever and original.
And she must like you, because "

Well, because why ? " he asked, as she
paused.

<< Why, because every one does. She
cannot help it," she replied, laughing.

He raised his eyebrows, and at that
moment Angel turned round and came
towards them.

Margaret looked at her, and, when she
had reached them, said 

'' Angel, let me introduce my friend,
Mr. Welford. Philip, this is Miss Darling,
of whom you have often heard me speak."

Philip raised his hat. Angel acknowledged
the introduction by a bow ; but the
graceful bend of the head was careless in
the extreme, and having given it, she
turned away and resumed her former
position.

I think it is time for us to go home,"
said Margaret at last. " Will you look at
your watch, Philip ? "

Philip told her the hour, and she stood
up and called Angel, saying they were
going.

Angel turned to join them.

After all," she said, " I had very much
rather live in the town than in the country."

"Don't you think there is a great deal
to be said on that subject, Miss Darling ? "
asked Philip.

I think people find a great deal to say
on all subjects," she said, with her cynical
laugh.

How do the trains run for Dullerton ? "
asked Margaret.

Very badly. It will be more convenient
for me to go to town with you and
back again to Dullerton, than to try to get
directly from here."

If you come to town at all, you must
come and have tea with me," said Margaret.


I shall be very glad," said Angel ; and
they went on in silence. Angel was very
quiet during the journey to town. She
leaned back in a corner of the railway
carriage, and let Margaret and Philip

have the conversation to themselves, while
she looked out into the darkening
country.

When they reached town, Margaret extended
her invitation to Philip, and they
all went to Chatham Square together.

Through the evening Angel sat quiet,
hardly speaking unless spoken to, and
Margaret began to think that her friend's
assertion that she did not like men was
not so idle as she had imagined. In the
course of the conversation some allusion
was made to her teaching, and Philip asked
eagerly 

Do you work too, Miss Darling ? Have
you the feeling that you must have work
of some kind to do ? I think it is one of
Nature's laws."

I have always heard that necessity has
no law," she answered. " I am obliged to

work for my living. I am not fond of
teaching."

"But there are many other kinds of
work. You could not have spent an idle
life?"

Certainly not," smiling rather maliciously
; " but since you make such a point
of knowing, I will tell you that I could
have found plenty of employment other
than teaching had I been free, which I
was not."

At ten o'clock Angel rose, and went
into Margaret's room to get ready to go.
When she returned to the sitting-room, she
found Philip also prepared for leaving.

Are you going too, Mr. Welford ? "
she said, offering him her hand. " Goodnight."


I am going to walk with you to the
station, if you will allow me," he said.

"Do you go that way ? "

My road does not exactly lie in that
direction, but it would not be pleasant for
you to walk in the streets alone at so late
an hour."

Is that your reason ? " she said, laughing,
and again holding out her hand.
'* You are very considerate, but I will not
trouble you so far as that ; I can go quite
Avell alone."

But indeed it is not safe," he protested.

She laughed again, in pure amusement
at his simplicity. It seemed as though she
could not understand his scruples.

Not safe ! " she echoed. " I have done
it repeatedly over again and again ; there
is not the least danger. How do you
imagine I could visit my friends if I
needed some one to take care of me on the
way ? "

" Have you been alone from here ? "

Often," a little impatiently.

How could Margaret "

Do not blame Margaret," she cried,
Hushing a little. " I think you forget that
I am a grown woman, and quite capable of
taking care of myself. I have never in my
life had to appeal to a man for help. But
I must go now, or I shall miss my train."

With a general " Good night " she was
gone, and Philip was left standing by
Margaret's side.

How can she be so imprudent ! " he
-exclaimed.

I suppose it would be imprudence in
other girls, but I do not believe Angel
could come to harm. I do not think any
man who wished to speak to her could
brave the scorn of her manner or the
scathe of her tongue."

Philip hastily said " Good night," and
ran downstairs and out into the street. It
had suddenly occurred to him to follow
Angel, so that he might be at hand to
protect her in case she should meet with
any annoyance. He had not far to go
before he caught sight of her before him.
She was walking along easily, and without
any appearance of hurry or apprehension.
He followed her as far as the station, but
had to confess at the end of his walk that,
in so far as his presence as protector was
needed, he might as well have gone
straight home. Angel had passed through
the crowded streets, her tall figure giving
her the advantage over other women, her
head erect, her eyes glancing fearlessly
over the street, and no one had so much
as attempted to address her.

CHAPTER VIII.

*' They never meet but there is a skirmish of wit
between them."

The next time Margaret saw Angel she
asked her what she thought of Philip.
Angel's answer was given promptly, . and
couched in few words.

I have not thought much about him
since I was here before, though I have tried
to reduce my impression to words, because
I knew you would ask me about him. He
is no better looking than other men I have
met, and not so much more agreeable or
more entertaining. He talks well, but he
is too enthusiastic and sanguine  he will

never gain anything by that ; and he seems
to have a profound belief in the fundamental
excellence of the human race. But
on the whole he is very much like other
men, neither better nor worse."

Margaret was a little disappointed at
this passionate verdict, though, had she
been reasonable, she might have known
she would get nothing else from Angel.

Did you never see a man in your life,
Angel," she said rather desperately, " whom
you thought superior to the other men you
knew ? "

Never," answered Angel, decisively.
Men, as I have known them  and I have
had rather a varied experience  I have
always found very ordinary beings, who
have neither amused nor interested me anymore
than women. If I were to try, I
could pick out from my acquaintance

twenty women to one man for whom I
could get up feelings of friendship ; and
you must not expect me to find anything
very delightful in Mr. Welford because he
happens to be your friend. Some one says
somewhere that we only see in our friends
an idealized reproduction of the feelings
we carry in ourselves. How can I see
innumerable good and noble qualities in
Mr. Welford, dien I am totally destitute
of them myself ? "

'' Don't talk like that, Angel. I hate to
hear you run yourself down."

Angel laughed. " And do you imagine
that, if I searched the whole world through,
I could ever find a man who could stand
so high as you do, who could ever be tome
what you are ? "

You are talking great nonsense," said
Margaret, laughing.

Wait and see," was all the answer
Angel vouchsafed.

I wonder if you will ever marry," went
on Margaret, meditatively.

Angel smiled indulgently, and shook her
head.

A few days later Margaret received a
visit from Philip. He came in late one
afternoon, telling her he had brought a
paper which he wished to read to her 
an article he had just written for his
favourite International Review.

What is the subject ? " she asked.

The heroines of Charlotte Bronte."

I should like to hear it ; but wait until
Angel comes. I am expecting her every
moment, and I should like to hear her
comments on it."

I am quite willing. I, too, should like
to hear what she has to say. What a

strange creature she is ! " lie went on.
The oftener I see her, the more she
interests me ; as wilful as it is possible fora
woman to be, and more than ordinarily
original. She interests me beyond measure
sometimes with her quaint, daring speeches.
I should like my mother to see her and
hear her talk."

Margaret laughed. " She would shock
Mrs. Welford terribly."

Do you suppose she believes all the
extraordinary things she says ? Does she
carry a warm heart under all her coldness,
or is she as she seems ? "

She is as she seems. To use her own
expression, I do not believe she would
consider it ' worth the trouble ' to pretend
to such an extent."

At that moment the door opened, and
Angel entered.

vol ri. 2t>

"Good evening," she said, shaking hands
with her friends. " I did not know you
would be here, Mr. Welford."

Or you would not have come ? "

Oh no ; it makes no difference. I am
happy in being able to adapt myself to
circumstances."

Angel took off her things, and Margaret
said 

"Angel, Philip has brought an article
he has just been writing."

For the Review, I suppose ? "

Exactly. He wants our opinion on it.
Will you let him read it ? "

Angel lifted her eyebrows.

Will he wait for my permission ? "
she asked. " From what I know of Mr,
Welford's character, I suppose him quite
capable of reading the article, although I
may express a decided disinclination to
hear it."

Miss Darling's word is law," said
Philip.

Pray read it. What is the subject ? "

Margaret told her. " No doubt it will
be sufficiently interesting," she said.

Philip seemed half inclined to put away
the manuscript he held in his hand, but
Margaret said 

' Do begin, Philip, and never mind that
foolish girl, who is longing to hear it all
the time."

Angel smiled an amused smile. Such
a statement was not worth the trouble of
refutation.

Philip read his article. It was clever
and exhaustive. Margaret listened in
delight ; she let her work fall into her
lap, and sat leaning slightly forward, her
eyes fixed on Philip's face, intent and interested.
Angel sat in tranquil indifference,

playing with a hand-screen which
she held between her face and the blaze,
saying nothing, but occasionally smiling
in amusement or disdain. Yet any one
watching the trio, would have said at once
that Philip was reading rather to Angel
than to Margaret ; that the silence and
indifference of the one piqued him far
more than he was flattered by the evident
admiration and interest of the other.

'that is very good. I like it," said
Margaret, when he had finished. "You
have surpassed yourself there, Philip."

"It is a subject that interests me deeply,"
he answered. Then, turning to Angel, he
asked quickly, " What do you think. Miss
Darling' ? "

About Charlotte Bronte's heroines, or
your essay ? "

About both."

' I like your essay ; it is very clever :
but I think you have made much ado
about nothing. Your heroines are very
like other women."

"What do bijou think of them?" he
asked.

They were frail creatures," she answered,
airily ; " ordinary enough, though capable
of doing sensational things at times, like
every one else. They were always in
extremes  victims of their feelings."

But," remonstrated Philip, " would you
have people entirely suppress their feelings ?
The world is governed by feelings."

'' Likely enough, it is governed very
badly."

A person without feeling is a brute."

'' A person all feeling is a bore."

I know you profess to have no feelings,"
he went on, pacing the room in excitement.

I profess nothing."

He made an impatient gesture with his
hand.

It is impossible you do not affect some
of your coldness."

I affect nothing. But I am not the
subject of conversation ; you are wandering
from the point."

' I repeat that the world is, or ought to
be, governed by feeling."

In which case it is remarkable that the
chief reason men take up for inferring the
inferiority of women is, that they are too
apt to let their feelings get the bette]' of
them."

Philip paused in his walk.

"I do not think women are inferior to
men."

That is delightful, but it will not go
far towards giving them the suffrage, for

which, I am told, the soul of every right-minded
woman craves."

Philip bit his lip. Margaret sat watching
the two with amusement, tempered
witch a little excitement. There was a short
silence. Angel appeared to have nothing-more
to say ; she was examining one of
margaret's photographs. Philip seemed
unwilling to carry the dispute any further,
still he did not look satisfied. Presently
he said 

You know, Miss Darling, the class of
people who are, to use your expression,
victims to their feelings,' is the class
that furnishes us with our martyrs and
enthusiasts "

Listen, Margaret ; listen," she interrupted,
laughing. " He talks of martyrs
and enthusiasts as less hardened people,
like you and I might talk of ducks and
chickens."

"It is intense and high-strung feeling,"
he went on, disregarding her interruption,
which enables a weak woman to walk
calmly up to the stake and to die for her
belief."

"I suppose, too, that it is feeling that
makes a weak man  you will allow me
to use the same epithet you applied to
women, since the sexes are equal  beat
his wife about the head till she is dead,
deprive her of her children, rob her of
her money, and otherwise illtreat her ?
We certainly see from the papers that a
large class of society is governed by such
feelings as those ; but I had not taken in
that such a gospel was to be preached allover
the world'

Such a creature I hold to be a brute,
incapable of feeling. Could he feel, he
would not treat his wife like that."

Oh ! " she said, dubiously. " I always
imagined that such conduct was only due
to feeling, intense and high-strung, on the
part of these men for the wrongs to which
their wives subjected them. Your theory
strikes me as the stranger since I cannot
help thinking that, exercised in another
direction and on another person, such acts
of violence would be put down to strong
feeling."

'' I cannot agree with you," said Philip ;
'' but you must admit that martyrs are
people governed by their feelings."

I have no wish to deny it ; I never
thought so highly of martyrs as many
people do. I think they were very mistaken
people, and I do not believe that
all the army of martyrs gathered from the
four quarters of the globe ever advanced,
by one step, the various causes for which

they died. However, they chose to die ;.
it pleased them, and did no one else any
harm."

I cannot believe you are serious," he
said, aghast.

As you please."

Then I do not understand you at all."

It is not necessary to my happiness
that you should."

When Angel was gone, Margaret said
to Philip

Philip, don't, for your own sake, tell
Angel again that you cannot understand
her. She hates any remark upon her
peculiarities ; it is the surest way to offend
her."

She is an inexplicable creature."

Yes ; but it will not do to tell her
so. She will never forgive you if you talk
about it."

She seems a very difficult person to
please," lie said, rather crossly.

Margaret laughed. The argument between
her two friends had greatly amused
her.

There seems only one spark of human
feeling in her heart," said Philip, moodily,
returning to 'the subject of Miss Darling's
character.

What is that ? "

"Her affection for you. She seems to
think your equal does not exist."

Soon after this Philip went away, and
Margaret, left alone, sat by the open
window, thinking. She had soon seen in
what direction Philip's feelings were carrying
him, and for a few moments she indulged
the thought of how pleasant it
would be if Philip and Angel became
attached. Then she shook her head. She

bad seen, not only that evening, but on
many previous occasions, what an influence
Angel bad over Philip, bow a few light
contemptuous words from her sufficed to
rouse him to excitement or anger, while
all bis efforts to provoke her only produced
a smile of amusement and a sarcastic
retort. It was just what she could imagine
would be the case  Philip blindly attracted,
hotly in love ; Angel cold, indifferent, and
smiling : and Margaret's face suddenly grew
grave, and she sighed even while she
smiled.

CHAPTER IX.

'* She smiles and smiles, and will not sigh."

That's as much as to say the sweet
Youth's in love."

Angel's Easter holidays were over, and
the summer term was well advanced. She
and Margaret had been much together
during these past weeks, and Philip frequently
joined them in whatever they did.
The relation between Angel and Philip
remained the same. They often met, and
as often argued and disputed, but they
never quarrelled. Philip was often provoked
to such a pitch that, had he received
the least further provocation, they would

probably long ere this bave been parted
by a serious difference. But Angel never
quarrelled. Sbe said it was against ber
principles to be angry; that there was
nothing in the world worth being angry
about; that if sbe were to excite herself
over every little thing that happened
contrary to ber wishes, sbe would bave
been in ber grave long before. So Angel
was never angry, and Philip and sbe never
quarrelled.

Margaret used to watch them with no
little anxiety. They were a strange pair,
and sbe could not help feeling that life
would not go with them as with ordinary
people. They never met without rushing
into a war of words, and yet Philip never
seemed happy if be were not with Angel.
Angel, on ber side, supported bis absence
with perfect equanimity ; and Margaret felt

that had Philip at any time asked Angel
to be his wife and she refused him, he
could not, intimate as they were, have
brought against her the common accusation
that he had paid her open attention
and she had encouraged him. They visited
the Academy together ; they spent afternoons
on the river together ; they went
to operas and concerts together. Angel
often remarked that never surely had there
existed so united and harmonious a trio.

Mrs. Welford did not contemplate their
united action so complacently. She had
long ago exonerated Margaret from the
suspicion of cherishing designs upon her
"princely son." Wayward and opposed
to all her plans for his happiness and
welfare though he was, she yet preferred
him in secret before her two daughters.
Now a new danger had arisen, and, she

feared, a more serious one. She had never
seen Angel, but she had heard often of
her. On the rare occasions when Margaret
came to her house, she spoke often *' of
my friend, Miss Darling." Elsa and Madge
had once or twice met her at Margaret's
house, and had come home much impressed
with Angel's beauty and conversation.
Philip, too, often spoke of her in terms of
enthusiasm.

All that Mrs. Welford heard of Angel
roused her curiosity and her apprehensions.
She knew she was a governess, and she
stigmatized the girl in her own mind as
artful and designing, and who, if she knew
Philip to have money, would accept his
attentions readily. She must see her and
judge her for herself. She would invite
her to her house ; she would see if she
knew how to behave herself in polite

society, and if she were really so beautiful
as Philip and the girls pretended. It is
only fair to add that she made up her
mind in advance that she was nothing of
the kind.

With this object in view, Mrs. Welford
wrote to Margaret, asking her to come
and dine, and enclosing a note for Miss
Darling, whose acquaintance, Mrs. Welford
said, she was very anxious to make.

Angel was sitting with Margaret when
the note was delivered in Chatham Square.
Miss Terry threw the enclosure across to
her friend, saying 

There is an invitation for you. Angel."

Angel read Mrs. Welford's brief and
stately missive ; then looked at Margaret.

Why does she want to make my
acquaintance ? " she asked.

*' I suppose she has heard Philip and

VOL. II. 27

the girls speak of you, and slave wants to
see what you are Hke."

Angel tore the note into little bits.

"I don't see why I should gratify her
curiosity."

Do go, Angel. I shall enjoy myself
ever so much more if you are there too."

You are not obliged to go."

Have you no curiosity to see Philip's
relations ?"

Not the least ; they are nothing to me."

Margaret was silent. She was afraid
to press Angel, lest she should refuse to
go altogether, yet she was very wishful
that she should go."

"After all," said Angel presently, beginning
with her favourite formula, " I will
go. I have an idea that Mrs. Welford is a
very amusing woman. What is the day ? "

Thursday, at half-past seven.

It happens to be convenient for me."

You must come in in the afternoon, and
then we can go together," said Margaret.
I shall be very glad if you will stop
all night, if you can."

I can, so I accept your invitation with
gratitude. If you will give me a pen,
I will answer the invitation now."

She was supplied with writing materials,
and in ten minutes Angel's acceptance was
written, folded, addressed, and she had
risen to go."

Remember," said Margaret, " that on
Thursday I shall expect you early in the
afternoon."

On Thursday afternoon Angel duly
appeared. Margaret was glad to see her.
She had not been able to rid herself of the
idea that Angel would send an excuse at
the last moment.

They readied Mrs. Welford's house a
few minutes before half-past seven. Philip
was already there, and dinner was served
at once.

Margaret was amused at Mrs. Welford's
manner towards Angel. She had unbent
a little at first, but soon began to stiffen
again. It was evident from the first
that she would never tolerate Angel, her
brilliant beauty, her careless, though perfectly
courteous carriage, and her free and
original conversation were all gall and
bitterness to Mrs. Welford. It was at
dinner that the first war-notes were
sounded.

May I give you some ham, Miss
Darling ? " asked Philip.

No, thank you," answered Angel ; "it
is against my principles to eat ham."

Is not that rather a trifling thing to

make a matter of principle ? " asked Mrs.
Welford.

Do you think so ? " turning her face
towards her hostess. " I have long ago
come to the conclusion that principles and
inclinations are the same thing."

That is a very strange theory," said
Mrs. Welford, with one of her most disagreeable
smiles, while Philip and Margaret
exchanged glances in slight alarm.

Oh no ! When you come to sift the
matter, you will find that only those
things are against our principles which
are against our inclinations. For instance,
take yourself. It is against your principles
to steal. Why ? Because," she went on,
recklessly unheeding the fact that Mrs.
Welford had drawn herself up in stately
displeasure, "you are surrounded by everything
you want ; you are in need of

nothing ; you have no inclination to
steal."

Here Philip joined in to his mother's
help ; he could not defend Angel.

Do you mean, Miss Darling, that you
attribute all the tortures people have undergone
for the sake of principle, merely to
the fact that their inclinations pointed that
way ? "

Yes."

perhaps, under certain circumstances,
you might yourself be induced to steal,.
Miss Darling," said Mrs. Welford, setting
her thin lips tightly together.

I dare say," said Angel, frankly. " If
I were starving, and the hypothetical
baker's boy were to drop a roll at my feet,.
I am sure my inclinations would prompt me
rather to eat the bread than starve with
hunger and restore it to the boy."

She turned her eyes, brilliant and flashing
with malice, first upon Philip, then
upon his mother. Margaret could not
refrain from laughing, but no one
spoke.

In the drawing-room after dinner, Mrs.
Welford asked Angel to sing. Margaret
wondered if she would refuse, for her
friend seldom sang, but she rose immediately,
and went to the piano and struck
a few opening notes.

I dare say you will not know the
song," she said. "It is one of my
favourite poems, and a friend of mine set
it to music for me."

Then she turned to the piano again, and
this is what she sang :

Love is like the wild briar rose ;
Friendship like the holly tree.
The holly is dark when the rose briar blooms.
But which will bloom most constantly ?

The wild rose-briar is sweet in spring,
Its summer blossoms scent the air ;
Yet wait till winter comes again,

And Who will call the wild briar ' fair ' ?

Then, scorn the silly rose wreath now,
And deck thee with the holly's sheen,
That when December blights thy brow,
He still may leave thy garland green."

Angel sang well. She had certainly
not a voice which made all who heard it
exclaim involuntarily, " Why does not
Miss Darling go on to the stage ? " but
her voice was a clear, fresh soprano. She
sang correctly and with expression ; no
one could hear her without pleasure. Tonight
she sang particularly well, with
spirit and a little dash of something like
defiance. Margaret and Philip were delighted
; and even Mrs. Welford, though
the subject of the song was distasteful to
her, could not withhold a tribute of admiration.


Margaret could not help watching Angel
and Philip that evening. It seemed as
though Philip wanted to show his family
how he felt towards Miss Darling. He
hardly left her side ; he paid her marked
attention, and talked to her incessantly,
though he hardly bestowed a word on anyone
else. Angel took his attentions with
her usual cool indifference. She neither
courted nor actively rejected them ; one
would have said, indeed, that she hardly
noticed them. Other people noticed them,
however  Madge and Elsa, with a little
sinking at the heart, for they thought
Angel would be rather a formidable sister-in-law.
Margaret saw them with mingled
feelings of joy and foreboding, Mrs. Wel-ford
with stern disapproval. She saw
Philip's evident intentions, but she would
never countenance such a match ; and

surely her son, misguided though he was,
would not persist in marrying a girl of
whom his mother could never approve.

The girls left early, and sat talking in
Margaret's sitting-room for some time
before they went to bed.

Margaret looked at Angel, and thought
how beautiful she looked. She wore a
dress of black velvet, soft white lace at
her neck and wrists. Her only ornament
was a golden pendant in the shape of a
heart, so thickly crusted with diamonds
that no gold could be seen, only the restless
flashing gleam of the precious stones.

That is a very beautiful ornament,"
said Margaret, after contemplating it for
some time in silence. " I suppose it was
a present ? "

Angel laughed lazily. " Of course," she
said. " I have not yet begun to invest

my spare savings in diamonds. Uncle
Anthony gave it me," she concluded.

'' It must be very valuable."

*' It is. He was considerate enough to
tell me what he gave for it, but I forget
how much it was. He gave it me in a
case, with ' Angel ' on the lid in diamonds""

He must have been very fond of you."

I believe he was ; and, for all his ill
temper, I think that in a certain way I
was a little fond of him too."

Then they went to bed. Angel shared
Margaret's room, and, while they were
undressing, she kept up a constant stream
of conversation. She talked about Philip,
laughed at him, saying 

No one could accuse him of indifference
; he is only too absurdly in earnest
about everything and everybody. I tried
to make him include every one in his conversation

this evening, but in vain ; he is
fearfully fond of having his own way. It
is very wearisome when people will single
you out as the sole recipient of their
confidences."

Margaret said nothing, but her face
became graver. She remembered that,
after Angel had finished singing, Philip
had gone to where she sat at the piano,
and had remained at her side talking fora
long time. What had they talked
about ? she wondered. The subject of
Angel's song, no doubt; the respective
value of love and friendship, and he had
wearied her. Margaret sighed a little as
she turned out the gas, thinking of what
might be if only her two friends were of
one mind.

She had been asleep for some little time,
when she woke suddenly, with a feeling

that some one was moving in the room.
She opened her eyes and looked cautiously
round. She saw a tall figure, barefoot,
robed in pale blue, pacing the room from
end to end. It was June, and already
light, though even as she looked she
heard a clock in a neighbouring room
strike three. Three o'clock in the morning,
and Angel was pacing her bedroom,
apparently deep in thought ! Margaret
closed her eyes again and pondered.
What a strange being Angel was ! She
could not rest through the few hours of
a short midsummer night, but must rise
and pace the floor restlessly. What had
driven her from her bed ? Margaret asked
herself in perplexity. Was it anything
relating to the conversation she had had
with Philip the preceding evening which
disturbed her rest ? She could not tell ;

she only saw Angel's tall figure, with cold,
pale face and contracted brows, which
never swerved from its steady walk, and
as she looked she felt she had not yet
learnt the innermost nature of her friend.
Then, being still tired, she dropped asleep
again.

CHAPTER X.

*' The wise want love, and those who love want
wisdom."

With the end of July came Angel's summer
holidays. She was looking forward to them
eagerly. Margaret had almost promised
to accompany her on a walking tour
through part of Wales. If they went, it
was almost certain that Philip would join
them somewhere, and they would return
to London together. Perhaps that was
the only thing that came to dim Angel's
pleasurable anticipations. She did not
want Philip. He would be certain to bore
her if he did come ; only Margaret would

enjoy his society, therefore he should be.
tolerated.

These thoughts were passing through
Angel's brain as she sat idle one evening"'
in her sitting-room, at Dullerton. Had
she only known it, she might have spared
herself the trouble of thinking about it at
all, for at that moment their plan was
upset.

About the same hour Margaret was
sitting in her sitting-room, thinking of a
letter which lay open in her lap. It was
from Mrs. Bannister, begging Margaret to
come down to Fencehurst, and spend her
holidays in that delightful spot.

The country," wrote Mrs. Bannister,
is looking its best. We have some delightful
people in the house " (here followed
a list of names all familiar to Margaret)
all of whom you know. You disappointed

US last year ; come and make your peace
now. It will be almost like the time when
you were here before. Write and say you
will come."

Margaret, after reading the letter, let it
fall into her lap, and sat looking out into
the silent square, thinking, should she go ?
Mrs. Bannister said it would be almost like
old times. Margaret smiled and shook
her head. In her mind's eye she could
see the dear old country house ; the comfortable,
tastefully arranged rooms ; the
beautiful, old-fashioned gardens, surrounded
by rolling, heaving seas of brown moorland.
But how empty and desolate they
would all look without the one figure that
had animated them all for her! She
longed to see the place again, and yet she
shrank from it ; but all the time she knew
she should go. She had not promised to
VOL. II. 28

go with Angel, and Miss Darling had
laughingly told her she was waiting to
see if anything better turned up before
pledging herself to her friend.

Margaret accepted Mrs. Bannister's invitation,
and, when she had written the
letter, she began to think of Oswald. She
hoped no one would talk of him at Fence-hurst
; she thought she should not be able
to control herself if they did, for
mingled with her sadness at their separation
was her joy at his approaching
return. In three months he would be
with her again. It was true that nothing
had been heard of the expedition, no news
of its return ; but three years had been
fixed for the time of its absence, and in
three months those three years would be
accomplished. She dared not think he
might not come. She could only dream

of his coming, and of what would happen
when he returned.

In the last week in July the Fullerton
High School broke up, and Angel was free
for seven weeks to go where she pleased,
and to do what she listed. Having been
disappointed in securing Margaret's company
in her wanderings, she announced
that she was at a '"' loose end," and did not
know where to go. Margaret suggested
several places, but at last Angel said she
should go home, and spend her holiday in
the bosom of her family.

"It is more than a year since I saw any
of them," she remarked, airily.

They will be very glad to see you, I
should think," said Margaret.

I am afraid they will hardly come upto
your charitable conception of them. Weare
not people who gain from seeing much

of one another. We have all strong wills,
and we all like our own way very often,
and a great deal of it ; unfortunately, weare
not all gifted with my serene and
philosophic way of looking at things."

You don't seem to have any family
affection," said Philip, who was present.

We have not any," rejoined Angel
lazily ; for it was hot, and it is tiresome-when
a man will begin to argue and
dispute, when he ought to be devoting
himself to afternoon tea and fruit, like his
companions.

That is dreadful. I believe firmly in
family affection. I am convinced it is a
great power for good."

That sounds very beautiful," said
Angel, sarcastically ; " but, for my part, I
hate people who are always in a " wither,"
as we say in Lancashire, about their relations.

I like people to take things
quietly'

Like you do."

Yes ; if every one cared as little about
other people as I do, there would be a
great deal of bother saved."

And where would charity and philanthropy
be ? I cannot imagine where you
get such an idea from."

It runs in the family. Mother has an
only sister who is a perfect invalid, who
might drop off  is not that the right
expression ?  any day, but she never goes
to see her except when she is obliged, and
then she makes as short a visit as possible.
There is mother's brother. Uncle Alfred ;
he never comes to see us, we never go to
see him. "We live perfectly comfortably,
although he does not know our names, nor
how many of us there are. We should not

know him if we met him in the street ; and
if he died, we should feel no more than if
some one said, ' The queen is dead.' "

I never heard of anything so extraordinary,"
said Philip, half to himself.

Angel did not reply; only leaned backing
her easy-chair and looked bored.

So Angel went home. Early one morning
she left London and proceeded north,
to the village of Bleak Moor, her home.
During the latter part of her journey she
had to change, and the train by which
she went on was the reverse of express.
It plodded slowly and ponderously on,
stopping with the strictest impartiality at
the most insignificant villages and towns
of considerable size. The country here
was different from that through which
Angel had rushed in the express train :
hilly and almost bare of trees, bleak and

barren, though not without a certain
fascinating beauty, which, however, only
those bred and born under its cloudy skies
can fully feel ; but the natives of this inhospitable
country do love it, with a love
that astonishes the dwellers in a more
favoured clime. Such a love was working
Angel when, regardless of the delicate-looking
young man who sat wrapped in
rugs in a corner of the carriage, she let
down the window and leaned out, turning-her
face to the hills to catch the strong-northwest
wind, which rustled her hair
and put the faintest colour of the wild rose
into her cheeks.

Presently the train slackened speed. It
was approaching a place, which, though
not yet a town, was rapidly developing
in that direction. In the station the train
stopped, and one or two " odd " porters

who chanced to be lounging about, shouted
the name of the place  " Bleak Moor."

Angel got out, and having rescued her
luggage from the van, was standing on
the platform, when a hand was laid on
her arm, and an eager, breathless voice
said 

Oh, Angel, I had such a race ! I
thought you might have set off before I
got here, and then I should have missed
you."

Syb, are you here ? " said Angel, turning
round. " You don't mean to say that
you came all the way from home to meet
me ? " she went on, in a bantering tone.

Syb blushed a little under her sister's
sarcastic eyes, and said a little waveringly 

You see, I had to come into the village
for mother, so I thought I might just as
well walk up here."

' What made you be in such a hurry ? "

That old Elijah Kershaw at the Stores
kept me so long."

"What, my old friend the Tishbite?"
said Angel, taking the child's hand in
hers, though she did not offer to kiss the
upturned, sunburnt face. " Well," she
went on, " if you are ready, we will go.
What is to become of this box, though ? " 

Elijah said he was sending up past our
house. Let us go and ask him if he will
take it."

Very well," said Angel ; and she followed
her sister from the station, with a
shrewd suspicion that Sybil had comedown
on purpose to meet her, and that the
-errand to the Stores had been undertaken
purely to coax old Elijah into sending up
Angel's box.

The business with Mr. Kirshaw being

successfully accomplished, the sisters set
out on their homeward way. Up a long,
straight road they went. They talked, and
while they talked, let me describe this new
addition to our acquaintance. Sybil Darling-was
fourteen years old. She was a tall,
well-made girl, with features somewhat
resembling Angel's, though the resemblance
would never be very striking. The
fault in Angel's beauty was a certain hardness
of expression ; the chief charm ' in
Syb's face lay in its sweetness and gentleness.
Her mouth was very tender in its
charming curves, and there was a wistful
look in the girl's eyes as she talked to her
sister. Poor Sybil ! she loved Angel more
than any one in the world, and her highest
ambition was to be like her in character.
There was little chance of the likeness-ever
growing up, for while Angel had a

jest ready at every one's expense, Sybil
was too soft-hearted to give pain to the
meanest of her friends. Angel could and
did pass years without ever coming to
Bleak Moor ; Sybil was notorious for lier
love of home. Still, Syb was brave and
strong, and though bitterly disappointed
that Angel had had no warmer greeting
for her than a careless hand-shake, she did.,
her best to entertain her sister.

I am so glad you have come home''
she said. " I have planned such lots of
walks and things we can do together ; that
is, if you don't mind."

I thought you and mother always
went away at this time of the year," said
Angel.

We do generally ; but mother says
she can't afford to go anywhere this year.
It is something about Laura, I think ; she

is delicate, and the doctor has ordered her
wine, and all kinds of expensive things."

Sybil was gathering some flowers growing
by the roadside as she said this, so she
did not see the sneering, contemptuous
smile that curved Angel's lips at the
intelligence.

Syb continued to chatter on in this
strain, until presently they reached a large
wooden gate, which the child pushed open,
saying exultingly 

'' At last ! There's mother in the garden*
Hi, mother ! here we are ! "

They were standing in front of a large
square stone house, which stood some way
back from the road in grounds of considerable
size. On the rough stone gate-posts
were cut in quaint old English letters the
words " Bleak Meadows," and bleak the
place certainly was. Even in the month

of July the large rambling garden was
almost bare of flowers. None but the
hardiest of plants would flourish in this
bleak spot, and though in spring the
garden was gay with laburnum, lilac,
hawthorn, etc., such luxuries as roses,
geraniums, calceolaries, and the like, were
never seen. Such was AngeFs home.

After Sybil's speech, the girls entered
the garden, which was already tenanted
by a white-haired lady, who looked quickly
up as she heard her daughter's voice.

Angela darling ! " she cried, hurrying
to meet and embrace her tall daughter.
You are here at last. It is delightful to
have you at home again."

Angel laughed as she returned her
mother's embrace.

Bleak Meadows is not a tempting place
to winter in," she said, carelessly.

Sybil had gone indoors, and Angel and
her mother soon followed her. They went
into the dining-room, where tea was laid
out, and where a sour-faced lady sat in
front of the table."

How late you are, Angela ! " she began,
crossly. " You have kept us waiting half
an hour for tea."

Don't make a stranger of me, Laura,"
said Angel. ' You should have begun by
yourself."

' I hate to see the things on the table
half the evening," she muttered ; and Angel
shrugged her shoulders, and turned away
to talk to her mother.

After tea Angel and her mother returned
to the garden, and paced up and down,
talking of this and that.

Mother," said Angel, presently, " what
is this extraordinary tale Syb has been

telling me, about your not being able to
afford to go away this summer ? "

I am afraid, dear, it is not at all an
extraordinary tale," said Mrs. Darling,
with mild resignation. '' You see," she
went on, almost apologetically, " I have
had many extra expenses this year, though
I feel a change would do me a great deal
of good. But, as Laura says "

What does Laura say ? " demanded
Angel, almost sharply, though she put her
mother's arm within her own, and took the
soft, pretty hand in hers. She had wonderfully
attractive manners when she chose.

'- She says I ought to think of her,
which is quite true, and so I do," rambled
on Mrs. Darling, almost tearfully. " The
doctor has ordered her things which I can
never buy if I spend my money in going
to the seaside."

Laura is a humbug ! " pronounced
Angel, with scornful decision. "Let her
buy her wine and rubbish herself, if she
wants it. She is no more delicate than
I am, and every one knows I am impervious
to disease. However, there is
nothing to prevent you and Syb going.
They appreciate my merits at Fullerton,
and have raised my salary. I am earning
a hundred and fifty pounds a year now,
mother, and have heaps of money to spare.
You must go away for a month, and take
Syb with you. Laura must manage for
herself. She can go and inflict herself on
some of her friends."

But yourself, my dear child ? "
I ? Oh ! I want no change. I shall
go nowhere ; I shall stop at home and
guard the house. Now, come in ; I want
to show you a photograph of Margaret."

They went in, and Angel ran upstairs
to bring her photograph. It was cabinet-size,
and stood in a frame Margaret
herself had carved for her friend.

Isn't she most beautiful ? " asked Angel,
when they had all looked at the face for
some time.

It is an exquisite face," said Mrs.
Darling.

She is perfect," pronounced Discoloured

photographs are always
flattering," observed Laura, dispassionately ;
and Angel shut up the carved doors, and
put the photograph away, saying 

Never have yours coloured, Loll, or
you won't dare to show yourself as the
original."

YOL. II. 29

CHAPTER XI.

I thank God and my cold blood . I had
rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man
swear he loves me."

Mrs. Darling took her daughter's advice,
and accepted her help. Soon after Angel's
return home, her mother took Syb to a
neighbouring watering-place, and engaged
lodgings there for a month. Laura objected
to being left alone with her sister, and
went to stay with some friends, and Angel
was left at home by herself.

Though she was alone, she was perfectly
happy in her own cynical way. She was
very independent of the society of her

fellow-creatures, and never seemed to feel
lonely. Though she had been alone a
fortnight, there was no melancholy in her
face as she sauntered slowly along the road
leading to the village one hot August
afternoon. She looked cool enough, too,
in her white dress and big shady hat,
the only spot of colour in her dress being
supplied by a crimson rosebud, which
nestled at her throat.

At the present moment she was standing
still, leaning against a wall, and
watching, with keen, hawk-like eyes and
rather an uncanny smile upon her lips,
two boys who were fighting in the road.
She watched them until victory was
declared, and then turned and continued
her walk down the shadeless road to the
village.

What was her destination ? She halted

at the Vicarage gate, and then walked up
the Vicarage garden and in at the open
house door.

The people at Bleak Moor said that all
Angela Darling's likes and dislikes were
unaccountable; but the most unaccountable
of all was her choosing Mrs. Barker,
the vicar's commonplace wife, for her one
familiar acquaintance. The Vicarage was
the only house in the village where Angel
ever called, and there she was a pretty
frequent visitor. She entered the house
now with the freedom of an old friend,
and knocked at a door on the right hand
side of the hall.

Come in," said a languid voice ; and
Angel went in.

She went forward into a room, called
by Mrs. Barker the drawing-room. In
the window was a large, comfortable-looking

clair, in which reclined a large, 
lady of apparently about
forty years of age. She was not handsome,
but she had a pleasant, good-tempered
face. She was very stout, and
looked with impotent envy at cool, slim,
white-robed Angel as she put out her
hand.

'' Well, Angela," she began (she never
called her young friend Angel), " how are
you ? It is very good of you to come and
see me this hot day."

Delightful weather ! " said Angel,
throwing herself into a rocking-chair, and
rocking gently to and fro. " I wish it
was always as hot as this."

Nevertheless, she unfurled the fan that
hung at her waist as she spoke, and began
to fan herself slowly with long, regular
strokes. Mrs. Barker looked at her silently

and contentedly, while she let the book
from which she had been reading fall into
her lap.

What are you reading ? " inquired
Angel.

Mrs. Barker mentioned the name of a
leading missionary magazine.

What may that be ? " asked Angel,
with portentous politeness. " I never
heard of it."

I dare say not. It is not in your style ;.
though, indeed," suddenly recollecting her
position, " I wish it were more so. It
contains an account of one of our Indian
missions under the leadership of Father
Bennett. There are some wonderful facts
about a plant. It has one of those long-latin
names, which I cannot read. It
seems this plant is deadly poison; it
poisons the air all round and any one-who

comes within a certain distance of
it."

What do the missionaries make out
of that ? " inquired Angel.

They cite it as a most wonderful
instance of the divine love and forethought
of Providence. It appears that the
poisonous plant never grows alone ; near
it is always found an antidote, another
plant, which counteracts the influence of
the other."

Really ? " said Angel, sceptically. " It
seems rather waste of time and material,
doesn't it, to make one plant only to
have the trouble of making a second, to
undo what the first one does. Such a clumsy
arrangement."

'* But, Angela ! " cried Mrs. Barker, very
much shocked, "would you have had an
all-merciful Providence spread deadly

poison on the earth without providing an
antidote ? "

I don't know," said Angel, cynically,
what an all-merciful Providence was
doing to spread deadly poison about at all."

Be silent, Angela ; I cannot permit
this flippant levity in my house," said
Mrs. Barker, severely ; and Angela was
silent, only smiling one of her queer
smiles.

Have you heard from your mother
lately ? When is she coming home ? "
asked Mrs. Barker, after a pause.

"In a fortnight, I believe."

Of course you will be glad ; you must
have felt lonely without them."

' Oh no ! I have not ; " gazing abstractedly
out of the window. "You
know I can bear a great deal of my own
society."

Mrs. Barker looked keenly at her; but
only said 

"How have you managed about the
housekeeping* ? "

Ah ! " brightening up, " I did a very
clever thing there. Before mother went
away, I made her get an enormous piece
of beef  a round, I think. This I had
boiled, and I have lived on it ever since
they went away. Elizabeth can boil
potatoes and make milk puddings, and
so we do very well."

Don't you get very tired of it ? " asked
Mrs. Barker, laughing.

"It is living rather like the fowls of
the air;] but it is nothing when you are
used to it."

Again Angela gazed out into the pretty
garden, and again Mrs. Barker looked
keenly at her.

You are not yourself to-day, Angela,"
she observed. " I am sure you are moping
about something."

I never mope ; but it is naturally dull
in a place where one has no friends."

I thought you did not care for friends."

I don't ; but they serve to amuse one
sometimes, when one is dull."

"What a charitable way to speak of
your friends ! "

Why not ? They are only men and
women, like every one else."

We have no right to laugh at men.
They are made in God's image."

Angel made a little grimace. " Why
were donkeys made?" she asked, reflectively.


Really," said Mrs. Barker, looking
startled, " I don't know ; for some good
purpose, I have no doubt."

*' They were made that men might be
compared to them," said Angela, answering
her own riddle. " And now," she
went on abruptly, and rising as she spoke,
I must go. Good afternoon."

Mrs. Barker began an earnest harangue
on the subject of Angel's levity, but her
young friend cut her short with 

Thank you ; but please don't be enthusiastic.
I have enough of that kind of
thing in London."

"Indeed! What enthusiastic friend have
you there ? "

"Mr. Welford. He is an old friend of
Margaret's ; he used to be her tutor. For
ten years they lived together in a state of
pastoral simplicity ; " and she laughed sarcastically.


For shame, Angela ! Is not even your
dearest friend sacred from your ridicule ? "'

 I was not laughing at my ' dearest
friend; but at Mr. Welford."

Do you see much of him ? " inquired
Mrs. Barker, suddenly.

Too much. Whenever I go to see
Margaret, he is sure to come in. We are
never free from him, and he is always in
raptures about something ; he bores me
to death sometimes*'

I'll tell you what it is, Angela," said
Mrs. Barker ; '' you are in love."

Angela did not answer for a moment ;
then she burst out laughing.

Dear Mrs. Barker," she said, with an
air of tender concern, " your mind is
diseased. I in love ! Think of all that
it would imply  the humiliation, the entire
lowering of one's standard of independence.
I should be ashamed to be in love myself,
and I would not for all the world go

through the ordeal of hearing a man say
he loved me."

No doubt," replied Mrs. Barker, with
composure ; " but it will come for all
that. You are just the girl to go and fall
madly in love with some one who does not
care for you in the least. You are on the
high road for it now, mark my words. I
know the symptoms."

You were never more mistaken in your
life," said Angel, with provoking indifference,


You make fun of everybody, and profess
to have no feelings. You will be no
good until you have been swallowed up in
seas of tribulation."

"What a graphic mode of description
you have ! I feel the water in my ears,
and taste it in my mouth. It is not
pleasant. Good-bye again ; " and she held
out her hand with a sunny smile.

"Angela, I wonder if you will ever
mend?" But Mrs. Barker pressed the
girl's hand fondly in her own, and added,
Come again as soon as you like. You
know I am always glad to see you,"

CHAPTER XII.

And will we, will we not, still must we hope,
And after unknown happiness must grope."

Ix the middle of September, Angel went
back to Dullerton to take np her work.
A few days later Margaret returned to
her quiet life, and Philip began his winter
term of lectures again. Some months previously
he had accepted the post of lecturer
on Biology at one of the large metropolitan
colleges, and his time was now fully
occupied.

Outwardly things were little changed.
Margaret was waiting, with fluttering heart
and longing eyes, for the return of her

husband, undergoing bitter hours of apprehension
and moments of keen rapturous
anticipation in silence and alone. People
who knew her were surprised that she did
not get married. Mutual friends wondered
why Mr. Welford and Miss Terry did not
get engaged. Such a thing never occurred
to them ; they were far too good friends
ever to fall in love. Philip would always
have a deep and strong affection for the
woman whose growth he had watched from
the time when she was a neglected little
orphan till she had grown into a good and
noble woman, but he would hardly have
understood had any one suggested that he
should marry her. Margaret, on her side,
would have laughed aloud at the idea that
she should fall in love with Philip, her
former tutor and constant friend from the
beginning;.

Philip was beginning to recognize that
he loved Angel with all his being, and was
setting himself steadfastly to woo and win
her. The goal might be very far off, but
it should be reached.

Angel was always the same  beautiful,
brilliant, and indifferent. Still constant to
her one friend Margaret, her manner to
Philip was what it had ever been since she
had known him. Margaret sighed sometimes,
and wished Angel would be a little
less scoffing. Philip openly took her to
task.

Did you never worship anything. Miss
Darling ? " he asked one day.

Never," she answered, quietly. " I
never met anything of which I thought
sufficiently highly to worship it."

And did you never love anything ? "

Oh yes ; I love afternoon tea-parties."

TOL. II. 30

He turned away. She angered him
sorely when she talked in that way, and
yet he loved her more than ever afterwards.
He could seldom surprise a serious
answer from her, whatever he might say.
In truth, Angel was on her guard. She
could not fail to see that Philip was in
earnest, and terribly in earnest about herself.
Sooner or later the question as to
whether she would be his wife must come,
and she wished to spare him a disappointment.
She liked him very well ; so far
as she could see she always would like
him, but liking and marrying were very
different things. Perhaps no woman ever
existed who was less of a coquette than
Angel. She was, as she had once told
Margaret, indifferent to men ; their compliments
fell on deaf ears ; she was never
moved by a desire to force attentions from

men who seemed indifferent to her. She
was ready to grant Philip a platonic
friendship, but nothing more, and she was
well fitted for entering into such a compact
and fulfilling all its conditions. Not so
Philip. He longed to possess this beautiful,
wild, tameless creature; to call her his
own, and to be envied of all men.

Meanwhile October wore away, and
Oswald did not return. The two following
months passed without bringing any
news of the explorers. People talked of
little else than the chances for and against
the handful of brave men having perished
in the heart of Africa, leaving none to
carry home the dismal tale. Those who
had a personal interest in the matter gave
open utterance to their alternate hopes and
fears ; those who merely wished to follow
the fashion talked about the men because

it was an exciting subject of conversation.
Margaret alone locked her fears in her
own bosom, and watched and waited in
silence. She scanned the newspapers each
morning as she had never done before, lest
haply the longed-for announcement that
the explorers were on their way home
should escape her. She yearned with an
inexpressible yearning for Oswald to come
back. Sometimes she went alone into her
room, and, taking her husband's portrait
from its hiding-place, gazed upon the well-remembered
face until she shook from head
to foot with emotion, for she must always
appear calm to her friends. As an outsider
who had no part nor lot in the fate of the
explorers, she must maintain a decent indifference
of demeanour when they were
talked about. She might indulge in well-bred
curiosity, but must show no spark of

enthusiasm, no pang of anxiety. And she
played her part wonderfully well ; no one
guessed at the sad, despairing heart which
beat in her apparently calm, unruffled
bosom. No one dreamed of connecting
her name with that of wild, popular Oswald
Saxenholme.

Here I must apologize for Angel. Long
before this some chance look or word ought
to have betrayed to her that Margaret was
in some way connected with Oswald. One
more word, one more soul-searching glance,
and she should have been in possession of
all the details of Margaret's " love, courtship,
and marriage." She never for an
instant suspected, when she sometimes
rallied her friend on her fits of depression
that that depression was caused by Oswald's
absence from England. She supposed
Margaret to be cast down by the sorrows

of some person who was a stranger to
herself, since Margaret never gave any
person's name as a reason for her sadness.

You are too sympathetic," she said to
her friend one day. " The world would
come to an end, if we were to break our
hearts over the misfortunes of every one,
whether connected with us or not. Try
to be a little more selfish."

Her last words were spoken with one of
her sweetest smiles. Though she had not
the least intention of imitating Margaret's
unselfishness, she admired and loved her
friend all the more for her carelessness of
herself. And Margaret smiled back at her,
and said she did not know what she was
talking about, which was quite true.

Some weeks after this, Margaret one day
put aside her work, and determined to go
and seek Angel. It was a lovely morning

in the early spring, and Margaret was a
prey to longings and yearnings which
refused to be pent up in her narrow room.
She recollected that it was a day when
Angel had half her morning free, and she
knew that if she could see her friend, were
it only for half an hour, it would do her
good. She put on her things hastily, and
went to the station. There she met Philip,
pacing the platform, apparently waiting
for a train.

"It is not often one sees you at a station
at this time of day, Margaret," he said,
holding out his hand.

I am going to see Angel," she said,
smiling ; and, as she smiled, it struck
Philip that before she spoke she had been
looking unusually grave. " I am going to
get her to cheer me up a little," she went
on, hardly knowing why she said so.

To cheer you up ! " lie echoed. " It used
to be you who cheered other people up.
You are not well, Margaret. Tell me what
you have been doing with yourself."

He took her hand as he spoke and
placed it within his arm, still retaining
his grasp on it. Margaret's lips quivered
as she noticed the simple act : he was
always the same kindly, brotherly friend.
If only Angel would incline towards him !

Now, then," he repeated, as she did
not speak, " tell me what you have been
doing. We must not let harm come near
you. Any one of our trio could more
easily be spared than you."

Even Angel ? " she asked, jestingly.

"Even Angel," he answered; and she
noticed how he lingered over the last
word. It was the first time he had ever
called her " Angel."

'' I have been doing nothing," she went
on, after a pause. " I shall be all right
again in a few days. You remember my
old fits of depression."

You have no business with fits of
melancholy," said Philip, manlike ignoring
all such things as hidden reasons, secret
anxieties, and the like. " You live too
much alone," he went on. "You should
go more into society."

I do not care for society. I don't think
I should get any good there."

Then you should get married."

"" My dear Philip ! " she exclaimed, in
the astonishment of the moment, withdrawing
her hand from his arm. " You
are not serious ? "

"Indeed I am. I have been thinking
of it for a long time. You are not fit to
live alone ; you mope yourself to death."

I am not alone ; I have you and
Angel."

Pooh ! We can never guarantee that
we shall be here from one week to another.
Miss Darling may leave Duller ton, or get
married herself; and I cannot tell what
may befall me."

Don't talk like that, Philip."

Yes ; but I want to speak to you about
this. I am sure you would be happier if
you were married."

I do not wish to continue the subject."

You would be happier married," he
repeated.

"I am sure I should not. I have not
the slightest wish to marry ; my present
life is a very happy one."

I know you have had plenty of offers,"
went on Philip, inexorably : and Margaret
flushed crimson at his words; then the

flush faded away, leaving her very pale,
"There was Cartaret; you always said
you liked him."

Philip, do not say any more. I assure
you, I have no intention of marrying. You
are hurting me."

Every one was surprised that your
intimacy came to nothing."

Philip ! " she cried, and there was a
ring of pain in her voice ; " you don't know
what you are saying. You are insulting
me. Even from you I will not bear such
things. I was so intimate as that with
no one."

He looked at her in surprise at this
sudden outburst.

I did not mean to offend you," he said.

I know," with a faint, miserable smile ;
but I am not very well. You must not
mind what I said. And here is the train.

I will sit down; I am tired with walking."


She walked towards the train. Philip
followed her, and opened a carriage door
for her. She sank upon a seat, and leaned
her head back against the cushion. To
her surprise, Philip got in too, and seated
himself opposite to her.

Are you going anywhere by this
train?" she asked.

"I am going to Dullerton, too; I have
a little business there."

She did not answer, and in a few
moments the train moved out of the
station. After that they did not talk.
Philip drew a newspaper from his pocket,
and retired behind it, leaving Margaret
to the enjoyment of her own thoughts.
These were miserable enough. She knew
Philip's determination, and felt terrified at

the idea that had taken possession of him.
His allusions to her intimacy with Ralph
Cartaret disturbed her very much. She
had met Mr. Cartaret frequently in society,
and he had asked her to marry him. That
was true enough. It was also true that
she had liked him, though she would never
have married him, even had she been free.
What hurt her most was Philip's speech to
the effect that her intimacy with Cartaret
had been so close as to lead people to
imagine it could end in only one way.
Was it possible that she, a married woman,
had so far lost sight of her position as tolet
her relations with a man be such that
people coupled their names together ? The
idea was torture to her. At any other
time she would have dismissed the imputation
with a contemptuous smile, but today
she felt ill and worried and unnerved,

and it had power to make lier very miserable.
The face that was turned to the
open window to catch the fresh spring air
was sad and troubled.

Arrived at Fullerton, Margaret went to
the High School. She found Angel just
coming out, and they walked together to
Miss Darling's rooms.

You don't look well, Margaret," said
Angel, as soon as they had reached her
sitting-room. " Come and sit in this easy-chair
 it is really comfortable  and tell me
what ails you."

Nothing much," answered Margaret,
sitting down as she spoke. " I feel a little
fagged, that is all."

"It is the spring weather," said Angel,
throwing off her hat. " Spring is a
horrible institution. You want a change.
If it were three weeks later, I would offer

to go away with you ; as it is, I am
chained here until Easter."

'' Philip told me that I want a change
too," said Margaret. " He says I ought to
get married."

Married ! " cried Angel, in her surprise
almost dropping the poker with which she
was stirring the fire. "What a hideous
idea ! " she went on. " No wonder you look
so pale and worn. You must have a glass
of claret. It is quite trustworthy wine;
mother made me bring it. It is some of
Uncle Anthony's, and thirty or forty years
old."

*' Married ! " she repeated, when she had
got some wine for her friend. " I did not
give Mr. Welford credit for such originality,
Yhat did you say ? You laughed at him,
of course."

I did not laugh, because I felt ill and

bothered ; but I told him it was quite out
of the question, and not to be thought of'

Was he very pertinacious ? "

"Fearfully. I was not myself, but I
wondered what I should do if he persisted."

"Do?" cried Angel; "do? Why, of
course, you would tell him to mind his
own business. But," she went on more
seriously, " you are not going to be
married, are you ? You would not go and
tie yourself to a man, and leave me comfortless
? "

She smiled as she spoke, but there was
a softness in her face and voice which
moved Margaret strangely. What would
Angel say when Oswald came back ? She
felt miserable that she was deceiving her
friend as she was ; but, as Angel pressed
for an answer, she said, with an attempt
at jesting 

I do not see wliy you should be left

comfortless, even if I were to marry.

Why should not you go and do likewise ? "

But Angel shook her head, saying 

I shall never marry ; I am too selfish."

They talked for some time longer, and

then Margaret, feeling refreshed with wine

and Angela's society, left Dullerton and

le turned to London.

END OF VOL. II,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

London ANC Eccles. C C &' Co.

TOL. II. 31

(III I III I III II II III nil III! T I Jinin'inJVy'A
JPI i

3 0112 045844039

OF THE
U N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

V.3

Pease
lOOK SE Le (
ROCHDALE

latest Date sran!ped;",or "' ''' 'e

===!!i!IIll"INOIS library AT 

Ll61 o.l096

A NOVEL,

Caroline FOTHEKGILL.

Fair, kind and true."

Shakespeare.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

ilufilisfjcrs in rtiinars to fcr fEajrstg tfjc uecn.

1883.
fall rights reserved.)

PUT TO THE PROOF

CHAPTER I.

Griefs and fears, nursed in silence, grow like
Titan infants."

When the summer came round again,
Angela claimed the fulfilment of Margaret's
promise, that she would spend a part, at
least, of her holiday at Bleak Moor.

Margaret renewed her promise, and even
fixed a time for going ; and when she had
done so, she hardly knew whether she
was going willingly or unwillingly. She
was most averse to leaving' London at the

VOL, III.



present time. Though through all the
dreary months she had waited there in
mingled hope and fear, no news had come
of Oswald. She felt that were she to go
away, if only for a week, news would
certainly come in her absence ; and she
could not bear the thought that Oswald
should come to her house, and she not be
there to receive him.

At the same time, she felt unequal to
remaining in town alone through the dust
and heat of August, waiting and watching
for what might never come. Philip was
going into Scotland with some friends ;
Angela was going home ; and though
Margaret knew that a word from her
would have kept Angela at London with
her, she would not speak the word.

"You must make up your mind to a
very dull visit," said Angela. " I expect

I am very selfish to ask you to come at
all : we have absolutely no attractions at
Bleak Moor, when you get there. You
must make up your mind to exchange life
for vegetation existence, whatever you like
to call it."

' I am not afraid," said Margaret, smiling.

I have no friends. I do not suppose
you will be asked to go out anywhere all
the time you are with me ; I expect you
will die of stagnation."

Not in your company."

"You are vastly amiable. But forewarned
is forearmed ; you can never say
I led you to Bleak Moor under false
pretences. You shall come back to London
any day you like."

Angela went home at the end of July,
and it was arranged that Margaret should
follow her a week later.

It soon became known at Bleak Moor
that Angela Darling was expecting a
friend to stay at Bleak Meadows. The
news created quite a sensation ; no one
had ever heard of Angela having a friend.
People wondered what she would be like.
Angela was not popular in her native
village, and the speculations concerning her
friend were carried on in no very charitable
spirit.

It was late one beautiful August afternoon
when Margaret arrived. The sun
had spent the fiercest of his strength, and
long shadows lay on the purple moors.
It was a very quiet country station at
which Margaret left the train, and she saw
Angela on the platform waiting for her.

I am horribly disgusted," began
Angela, when the first greetings were
over ; " but there is no cab for you.

There is only one in the village, and it
has been engaged for a wedding or a
funeral or something. I have negotiated
about your luggage : it will be brought
up this evening on a hurry that is coming
our way. But there is no hurry for us, and
we shall have to walk."

"Well," said Margaret, "I shall not
mind that. It is a lovely evening, and
I am tired of sitting still."

It is a mile and a half."

That is not enough to frighten me ;
I am quite equal to it."

''Oh, I know," moving slowly away in
the direction where the ticket-collector
stood, casting impatient glances at them;
"you 'will be as charming as possible,'
and try to make me believe that you would
much rather walk; but I am horribly
disgusted all the same."

"Don't be cast down," said Margaret,
laughing ; and they left the station, going
down the steep hill which led to the highroad
below.

They crossed the bridge spanning the
little stream, passed under the large railway
bridge  from the roof of which, even
in this dry weather, the water dripped
dismally  and emerged finally on the road
that led straight up to Bleak Meadows.

They walked slowly. It was half-past
five. All the mills had stopped, and the
village street was thronged with " hands "
hastening homewards after their day spent
in the different factories. There were
many of them, men, women, and children ;
but all turned to look at the two beautiful
women walking leisurely along under the
shelter of their sunshades. Angela's face
was familiar to them : to-day Margaret's

was the centre of attraction. Miss Terry
looked closely at the people. It was long
since she had met the hands turning out 
not since she left Ash Fell.

You know, Angela," she said presently,
'*my mother was a factory hand, like one
of these women."

'' You are like what she was, are you
not?"

People have told me so."

I don't wonder your father married
her. Don't you feel glad that you are so
nearly related to the people ? "

I am proud of it," lifting her head a
little.

How did your grandfather like that ? "

He did not like it at all ; but that was
partly because he did not like anything
connected with me."

I cannot imagine how you contrived

to bear with him. I should have left him
to himself."

I should have done if he had not fallen
ill. I could not leave him then."

I suppose not ; but he must have been
very quarrelsome. I wonder if we shall
ever quarrel," she went on suddenly, as
though an entirely new idea had occurred
to her.

Not if the matter rests with me ; and,
as you have often told Philip, it takes two
to make a quarrel."

' He is always ready for battle, is he
not ? "

Yes ; I often wonder that you have
never ' fallen out.' "

'rit is not worth while falling out with
people you do not care for."

"I thought you liked Philip."

"So I do, but not in such a way that

whatever he does or says or thinks, puts
me in a state of breathless agitation."

So talking they accomplished the mile
and a half which lay between the station
and Bleak Meadows, and Angela heaved a
little sigh as they turned in at the gate.

They went into the house and into the
dining-room, where tea was set, and Mrs.
Darling was waiting to receive them.

Angela's mother ! Margaret had looked
forward to meeting Angela's mother. She
had heard her friend speak of her so often,
and never without a tone of respect, which
was generally wanting in her mention of
other people. She saw before her an
elderly lady, with features something like
Angela's, but wonderfully softened. Her
expression was sweet and gentle. She had
silver hair, and a soft, refined voice. Mrs.
Darling made Margaret very welcome, and

she followed Angela upstairs with a feeling
that she was going to be happy here.

When they returned to the dining-room,
they found the rest of the family assembled :
Laura, whose greeting was stiff and rather
ungracious; and Sybil, who looked with
wondering eyes of admiration at her sister s
beautiful friend.

They had a merry meal, and Margaret
felt her trouble sinking into the dim background
in this strange place, where she
was surrounded by new faces in nowise
connected with Oswald or Africa.

The next day but one was Sunday, and
Margaret, talking to Mrs. Darling after
breakfast, found from her hostess's conversation
that she was expected to accompany
her to church ; she went, therefore, to her
room to get ready. She had not been
there many minutes when she heard that

quick, short knock at the door which she
knew to be Angela's, and immediately
afterwards her friend came in.

Here you are ! " she said. *' I have
been looking for you everywhere. Where
are you going ? "

To church with Mrs. Darling."

Angela's face fell.

*' Are you ? " she asked, doubtfully. " I
had hoped to take you for a long walk on
the hills. We might have spent such a
delightful morning. That is mother's
weak point ; she always will try to entrap
people into going to church. However,
if you have made up your mind, I will
make an effort, and go too."

She went to get ready, and was so long
that Mrs. Darling set off with Laura.
Margaret and Sybil, however, elected to
wait for the missing Angela.

She came at last, looking very lovely
in a dress of her favourite Quaker grey,
and a large hat of the same colour.

I suppose mother and Laura have
gone," she said, as she joined the others
in the garden. * I knew they would go
if I waited long enough," she went on
complacently, Sybil having replied in the
affirmative.

You don't mean to say that you were
so long purposely ? " asked Margaret, reproachfully.


Yes. Mother has taken such a violent
fancy to you, I knew I should not be
able to get a word with you if we all
went together. Besides, fancy streaming
into church five people one after the other ;
it would not be respectable."

Margaret made no reply, and they
walked slowly on. The day was hot, and

Angela was not likely to hurry herself
to be in time for a festival she cared so
little for as church.

Mr. Duffus is preaching to-day, Angel,"
said Sybil.

So you told me once before. How do
you know ? "

' I met him in the village the other
day, and he told me," answered the child,
with a flash of fun in her eyes. " He
asked me to let you know ; and I did,
only you took no notice, so I thought
I would tell you again. Now my conscience
is at ease."

Angela laughed a little contemptuously.


Take notice of his reverence, Margaret,"
she said. " He is an entertaining
little man, with as little tact as the rest of
his sex. He always contrives to sav the

wrong tiling ; at least, when he is talking
to me."

Margaret did notice him, and, insignificant
little man though he was, he lived
long in her memory.

*' Where shall we sit?" asked Angela,
presently. '' Mother sits at the top of the
church. When I go, which is seldom, I
bury myself in the background ; but, as
you are my guest, you shall take your
choice."

I think we had better sit with Mrs.
Darling," replied Margaret, to whom had
been granted a sense of the fitness of
things.

''I shall sit at the back," said Sybil.
There will not be room for us all on one
bench, it is so hot."

Do, Sybil," said her sister. " We will
meet you when we come out."

So, when they entered the church, they
separated. Sybil slipped into a seat near
the door, and Angela and Margaret walked
lip the church to the topmost seat, where
Mrs. Darling, with her eldest daughter,
was already seated. There was a visible,
almost an audible, rustle of expectation as
the two friends made their appearance, and
they were followed up the aisle by many
eager pairs of eyes. This was Angela
Darling's friend, but she was not in the
least like Angela, except that she was as
beautiful and looked as proud. But she
was no slim girl, with scornful mouth and
critical eyes, but a dignified woman, with
a grave, almost sad, face, and steady,
thoughtful eyes.

The church was very hot ; the sun
poured through the unshaded windows
into the bare, unbeautiful building ; the

service was long, the music and singing*
inexpressibly dreadful. Margaret, in the
depths of her heart, began to wish she
had had strength of mind to ignore Mrs.
Darling's hints, neither did she wonder at
the lukewarmness of Angela's zeal. The
vicar read the service in an indistinct and
monotonous voice. Mr. Duffus took little
part in the proceedings until sermon time,
and then he mounted the pulpit steps with
a roll of paper in his hand. His sermon
was on sin. He divided sinners into three
classes  the backslider, the hardened sinner,
and the tender unbeliever. At this point
Margaret, who had been listening with
only divided attention, became interested.
She wondered what species of being a
'lender unbeliever" might be, and what
he was going to make out of him. Suddenly
Mr. Duffus branched off to another

subject, and before she knew how he got
there, she was listening with a kind of
fascination to an account of the African
expedition in which Oswald was engaged.

"It is now nearly four years," said Mr.
Duffus, solemnly, " since those brave men
left home and family and friends, and
ventured forth in the cause of science
upon an expedition involving certain peril,
certain hairbreadth escapes, for aught we
can tell, certain death. Three years were
fixed as the term of their absence ; four
years have almost passed, and we have as
yet heard nothing of them. They have
been swallowed uip in the dark continent,
and it may be that we shall never know
if they have not fallen a prey to one of
the many perils which must have beset
them at every step). Any one of those
men might lose his life at any moment.

VOL. III. 33

He might lose his way in some trackless
forest ; he might lie down to die in the
burning desert, parched with thirst ; or
he might fall a victim to some hostile
tribe. A few people hope yet, but with
the majority hope is dead, and they have
made up their minds that this band of
brave men has perished in the wilderness."
Margaret sat listening, spellbound, fascinated.
She thought she had left her
trouble in London, and lo ! it met her face
to face in this remote country village.
She knew she was going pale to the lips :
each one of Mr. Duffus' innocent words fell
upon her heart like a drop of ice-cold
water. A moment ago she had been rebelling
against the curate's style as wanting
in strength and vividness; now his
words seemed living things, endowed with
the power of torturing her horribly.

How much farther Mr. Duffus spoke on
the subject, Margaret never knew ; she
heard no more than that set down above.
She sat quite still, her hands tightly
clasped in her lap, her eyes fixed unswervingly
upon the east window in front of
her. She was hardly conscious of where
she was ; her only desire was to bury her
face in her hands, and to try to shut out
the horrible picture Mr. Duffus' words had
called UJ3 to her imagination. She hoped
no one would notice her emotion, and she
glanced involuntarily at Angela, but she
was otherwise occupied. Of all Mr. Duffus'
exposition, she had caught only the mention
of trackless forests, which, coupled
with the name of Africa, had caused her
to be seized by a silent but uncontrollable
fit of laughter, which she was exerting
herself to overcome. Margaret's self-control

was such that, despite what she was
feeling, no one noticed anything, except
that "it was intensely hot in church, and
Miss Terry seemed to feel the heat very
much; she went quite white during the
sermon."

In the evening Mr. Duffus came up to
Bleak Meadows, and joined the party
strolling about the garden. He spent a
few moments with Mrs. Darling, and then
strayed away to Angela and Margaret,
who were walking apart from the rest.

Margaret could scarcely refrain from
shuddering as the same voice smote her
ears which a few hours before had declared
its owner s belief that her husband was
dead, and that he had, moreover, met his
death in some unnatural and horrible
manner. She hid her feelings, however,
and acknowledged Angela's careless introduction
with graceful courtesy.

Mr. Duffus did not stay long, though
long enough to show Margaret that he
was as much in love with Angela as ever
Philip could be, and that Angela was as
indifferent to him as to Philip. When he
went, he cast a fond look at Angela, who,
having wished him " good night," stood at
the open window, looking out into the
garden, in blissful oblivion of his presence.

CHAPTER II.

*' She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband**

Margaret was soon a universal favourite
at Bleak Meadows. Syb's affections were
easily won, and when one wet day Margaret
gave her some lessons in wood carving, her
gratitude knew no bounds. Laura, too,
began to thaw. It was impossible to keep
up an air of ungraciousness in face of
Margaret's perfect courtesy, and she even
admitted to some of her friends, that " Miss
Terry is very nice in some ways, and not
at all like Angel."

Mrs. Darling treated her guest like

a daughter, and was soon drawn to confide
all her anxiety on Angela's behalf
to her gentle and sympathetic young
friend.

"You may imagine," she said one day,.
that I am never at ease about Angel ;
she has caused me more anxiety than
Laura and Sybil put together. I daresay
she has told you herself, for she makes
rather a merit of it, how she behaved to
her uncle, after all he had done for her.
He was as fond of her as if she had been
his own child, and I shall always maintain
that he died of a broken heart. Now she
does exactly what she likes ; no one has
any control over her, I least of all. She
sadly wants some one to govern her. I
shall never know peace until I see her
suitably married."

"I don't think Angel has any idea of

getting married," replied Margaret, feeling
a little startled.

Well, she talks like that, it is true ;
but I never know whether she is in earnest
or not. Nothing makes her so angry as
to speak to her of a husband."

*' But you would not try to force her to
marry, would you ? " asked Margaret, feeling
that any such scheming would be time
and trouble thrown away.

" Force her ? Oh no ; but she has had
so many chances  more than any other
girl in the place. But she laughs at all
her suitors. The more in earnest a man
is, the more she scoffs at him. And the
worst is, that if once a man begins to
think about her, he can never forget her
for any one else."

But she does not encourage them."

Oh no ; she shows them from the first

that she cares nothing for them, yet they
never leave her alone. And, oddly enough,
the other girls in the village do not seem
so jealous of her as if one of themselves
were to act in that way."

She paused, and Margaret was silent,
wondering what it was in Angel that, cold
and cynical as she was, yet drew every one
to her as with a charm.

"There was Ben Crossley," went on
Mrs. Darling, rather plaintively ; " he has
asked her to be his wife three times, and
each time she has laughed and sneered at
him. Yet he is a handsome young fellow,
and in a very good position. He succeeded
lately to his father's business, and has
between two and three thousand a year.
There is not another girl in Bleak Moor
who would not be happier than she could
say, if he only showed any preference for

her ; yet they have all more money than
Angel will ever make for herself."

But, dear Mrs. Darling, you would not
have Angel marry for money ? "

Of course not. Still, Ben has a very
good position. She will never make herself
such a position as she would step into
if she were his wife. I hate to think of
Angel earning her own living," went on
the elder lady, energetically. " She lives
by herself in London  and one reads of
such things happening in London ; and
she, with her beauty, and that way she
has of looking people straight in the face,
and with no one to protect her. Sometimes
when I think of it, my heart grows
quite cold with fear."

Mrs. Darling put her handkerchief to
her eyes as she finished her somewhat
incoherent speech, and Margaret felt a

sudden throb of pity for the poor lady's
fears on behalf of her beautiful, careless
daughter.

*' I am sure you need not fear," she said,
soothingly ; "no one would dare to say an
impertinent thing to Angel."

No. I dare say you are right ; but
I cannot forget what she told us the other
night, about how she went by the underground
railway in a third-class carriage
last Easter Monday, at nine o'clock at
night. You know, my dear," turning a
pair of frightened, tearful eyes on Margaret,
" that was a most shocking thing
to do."

' It was foolish certainly," replied Margaret,
hardly able to suppress a smile.

She is very young, and so careless
about the people she speaks to. I shall
never be at ease until she is married to

some honourable man, who is in a good
position, and who will make her happy."

Such was the burden of Mrs. Darling's
song, and Margaret did not tell her that
she knew one man in London, the soul
of honour, and in a position no one need
despise, who would lay all at Angel's feet
if she would give him only one word of
encouragement.

Then there is Mr. Duffus," continued
Mrs. Darling, " an upright, hard-working
man "

But here Angel herself appeared, and
she was obliged to be silent. But this
conversation somewhat opened Margaret's
eyes as to Angel's position at home, and
she began to understand why it was she
went there so seldom.

Margaret's visit to Bleak Moor was very
quiet. She saw few people except her

hostess and family, and those she saw did
not appeal very powerfully to her heart
or intellect. Still, she enjoyed herself.
She was with Angel, and, the weather
being exceptionally fine, they spent a
great deal of time out of doors. Bleak
Moor was not far either from Ash Fell
or Fencehurst, and the country bore the
same character at all three places. Sometimes
Margaret could almost fancy herself
again in the scenes of her girlhood, which
now seemed so far away, or at Fencehurst
with Oswald. But the thought of Fence-hurst
was always too terrible ; she put it
resolutely from her. At times her trouble
seemed to start up before her at unexpected
moments, as in Mr. Duffus' sermon. This
happened again one August afternoon,
when Angel, Syb, and herself were spending
their time on the moors.

Angel and Margaret were both sketching.
Syb had been reading aloud to
them, but had now dropped the book,
and lay back on the heather, her hat tilted
over her eyes, enjoying the hot sun as
it streamed down upon her.

How hot it is ! " she said at last,
breaking a long silence. " I wonder if
it is much hotter than this in Africa."

How should you like to go and try ? "
inquired Margaret.

'immensely. I wish I were there
now."

"Syb is desperately fond of travels,"
said Angel, in lazy explanation. " She
reads nothing else. I believe that in
secret she was nearly heartbroken because
she could not join those scatter-brained
African explorers."

Margaret looked up quickly at Angel's

careless words ; while Syb, in the tone
of one who had felt her feelings and was
not ashamed of them, answered 

Well, I was. I should like to have
gone awfully."

And have been swallowed up by a
lion, or a ravening cannibal, or fallen
down a yawning precipice," said Angel,
mockingly. " You remember what his
reverence said of them the other day."

Yes," said Syb, in a tone of resigned
though fulness ; "I suppose they are all
dead. They have been away a long time,
and the chances were about even in the
beginning. It seems a pity, too, that so
much should have been done in vain,
doesn't it, Margaret ? "

Yes, dear."

'' Still, if they do come back," went on
the child, in a glow of enthusiasm, " think

of the glory they will have. People will
talk of no one else."

"They will all get the Victoria Cross
for saving one another's lives," said Angel,
sarcastically ; "or perhaps they will be
knighted, as a reward of merit."

Angel ! " said Syb, indignantly, " you
are quite wicked. I don't know how you
can talk in that horrible way. I don't
believe any one says such fearful things as
you do. Suppose they never come back."

They will come back, do not be afraid.
Some one will be sure to survive all those
perils which the vivid imagination of his
reverence called up the other day, and
which, I don't believe, exist anywhere else.
There may or there may not be trackless
forests in the heart of Africa, but I don't
believe he knows anything about them."

Only once did Margaret give way to the

secret fear which devoured her, and made
life a burden to her. Angel and she were
on the moors together, and Angel, as she
sat talking, plucked a sprig of heather, and
put it into her dress, saying 

How the moors are turning ! This is
almost the last bit of heather I shall get,
and there is no other flower that has so
sweet a scent."

Can you smell it, too ? " asked Margaret,
also gathering a spray and drinking
in the faint, wild perfume. " So few people
can," she went on. "I only know of
Philip and myself, and  one other person."


She spoke the last words slowly, and as
she said them a vision of the hours Oswald
and she had spent among the heather
overcame her, the faint, delicate perfume
became strong and deadly in her nostrils,

VOL. III. 34

and, throwing the flower aside, she buried
her face in her hands.

Angel was by her side in a moment.

"Margaret," she said, "what is the
matter ? You are in trouble."

Still Margaret sat still, her face hidden in
her hands, her body rocking to and fro
in extremity of misery.

Angel put her arm round her friend,
and drew her head on to her shoulder,
while she stroked Margaret's hair softly,
and said in a whisper 

Tell me, darling, have you any
trouble ? "

"Yes," sighed Margaret at last, her
hands dropping into her lap, while she
looked into her friend's face with such
dreary, hopeless eyes as made Angel's heartache.
"Yes," she said again, and her
voice sounded like a moan. " I do not

"think I can bear it much longer; it will
kill me."

She was silent, and Angel said nothing,
only kissed the pale, sad face.

You must not be angry with me," she
went on presently, "if I do not tell you
what it is. No one knows. I promised
I would tell no one. It is very hard to
bear alone ; but you will not be angry,
Angel?"

I want to know nothing you had
rather not tell me. You must not be
distressed; remember, I want to know
nothing."

You are very good," said Margaret.
But I should so like to tell you," she
went on, eagerly, " if only I might ; but
I promised I would tell no one. I don't
know what I should have done without
you, Angel. You have often helped me

to be brave, though you did not know it.
I should have broken down if you had
not been near."

Angel's only answer was a caress. Her
keen blue eyes were dim with unaccustomed
tears. She knew what Margaret
must have gone through before she gave
way even as she did now.

When Margaret had rested, they began
to walk home. The walk was accomplished
almost in silence; and when they reached
Bleak Meadows, Angel persuaded Margaret
to lie down in her own room, and, having
made her drinlv a cup of tea, she shaded
the room carefully from the sun, and went
downstairs into the garden.

She had it to herself. Mrs. Daring and
Laura were paying calls; Syb had gone
Yvith one of her friends on a distant expedition
of some kind. Angel, therefore,

could wander about the garden as aimlessly
as she pleased, and let her face look as
drave and disturbed as it would.

What was Margaret's trouble, she wondered,
that was weighing her down, crushing
out her youth, and sending that
haunting look of misery into the beautiful
face she loved so well ? Was it trouble
connected with a man ? She feared it
was, and her lip curled with contempt as
the thought rose in her. It fitted in well
with her general theory of the character
of men, to imagine some selfish creature
trading on Margaret's generosity, spoiling
all her life for the sake of some mere
capricious whim. Her hands clenched and
her colour rose at the idea ; any injury to
Margaret roused her to the very depths
of her nature.

If he were here," she thought, " I

would make him repent the day when he
thought of injuring Margaret Terry."

Good heavens, Angel ! " cried Laura's
voice at her side ; *' what is the matter ?
You look as enraged as if some one had
been proposing to you. Has Ben been
here ? "

Don't be a fool, Laura ! " retorted
Angel, sharply.

"Where is Margaret?" asked Mrs.
Darling, in some alarm. It was not often
Angel was moved to open anger.

She has a bad headache ; she is lying
down," said Angel, her voice softening
instantly.

Dear me ! I am very sorry. Will she
have some tea, I wonder ? I will go up
and see her."

No, don't," said Angel, hastily ; " she
has had some tea, and you would only
disturb her. I left her trying to sleep."

Margaret reappeared later in the evening.
Her face was very pale, and there
were dark circles under her eyes, but otherwise
she was her usual self.

A few days before Margaret went back
CO London, Mrs. Darling gave what Angel
sarcastically called " a small but very
elegant " social gathering. Angel voted
the whole thing a bore, and represented
seriously to her mother that Margaret was
very happy as she was, and had no wish to
make the acquaintance of the maids and
matrons of Bleak Moor. Mrs. Darling was
firm; the day was fixed, the invitations
were issued and accepted, and nothing-remained
to be done but to prepare for the
feast.

The evening of the festival arrived. All
Bleak Moor had been invited, and Angel
assured Margaret that the women would

think very meanly of her if she did not
put on her very best clothes  clothes, moreover,
which she had not yet worn in public.
Margaret wore black, which set off her fair
beauty perfectly ; Angel herself wore white,
unrelieved by any colour.

The evening passed off well. Margaret
was amused at the curiosity she excited,
though every one was vastly civil to her,
and made it apparent that she was the star
of the evening. She talked with many of
the girls, and was chiefly struck by the
acrimonious tone in which they spoke of
Angel. She held a long conversation with
Mrs. Barker, and left her, wondering what
was the tie that bound Angel to the vicar's
plain, every-day wife.

The guest who chiefly attracted her
attention was Mr. Benjamin Crossley, who,
Mrs. Darling had told her, had asked

Angel to marry him three separate times,
and whom she had refused each time in a
most decided manner. He, too, seemed to
single her out from among the other ladies,
probably, she thought, because she was
Angel's friend, and he hoped through her
medium to effect some change in Miss
]darling's humour.

Mr. Crossley was such a man as many
girls would have felt a pardonable pride in
having attracted. We know that he was
rich ; he was also handsome. He was tall,
and of a good presence ; his brown hair
curled at the temples, and waved thickly
over his head ; his grey eyes were honest
and straightforward in expression. Altogether,
there was an air of quiet independence
about him which certainly made a
favourable impression upon Margaret.
"Compared with Philip, she thought, in a

contest of mere good looks, he would
decidedly bear off the palm.

When Mr. Crossley left Margaret it was
to talk to Angel, and Margaret watched
them as they stood together. He was talking
eagerly, and there was an air of suppressed
excitement in his bearing that
bespoke the anxious lover. Angel's manner
was cool and unembarrassed, as though she
had been speaking to any other of the men
present.

Decidedly," thought Margaret, with a
feeling of pleasure, " she is no coquette.
He might never have spoken a word of
love to her in his life, and yet for all her
manner is so indifferent, one can see he has
not lost all hope : he is a persistent wooer.
I believe she could make him do anything
she chose."

Nevertheless, Mr. Crossley had his own

views on certain matters, out of which
Angel could not laugh him, as was shown
later in the evening, when, a discussion
having arisen on some topic, it drifted off
to women's rights.

Mr. Crossley gave it as his opinion that
no woman ought to step beyond her
"sphere." Angel retorted sarcastically that
women themselves were the best judges
of what lay within their sphere  which
sphere, moreover, was ordered by circumstances.


Women should keep to their housekeeping,"
announced Mr. Crossley, loftily ;
they have failed in whatever else they
have tried to do."

Woman was made from a man's rib ;
she may well be a failure," said Angel.

Mr. Crossley made some retort ; and Mr.
Duffus, rising and placing himself by

Angel's side, as one who would be her
shield and protector, said 

I cannot argue the matter. Are we not
told, on unimpeachable authority, that men
are ' a little lower than the angels ' ? "

The little man looked round in delight.
No one, he thought, would pay a compliment
like that ; and the vicar clapped his hands
together, crying, " Bravo, Duffus ! "

But Angela laughed.

Only a little lower ! " she said, drawing
up her long neck and looking down upon
the little man, whose head came no higher
than her shoulder. " In those days, then, I
think the men must have been taller, or
the angels less divine."

Her words were received in silence ; only
Margaret laughed. Mr. Duffus blushed
painfully, and the other guests looked atone
another with an expression of strong

disapproval on their faces. It was speeches
of this kind which had gained for Angela
the reputation of being " so queer and unsatisfactory
to talk to." Margaret j began
to understand why Angela was unpopular.

CHAPTER III.

Confession is stood for the soul'*

&

Christmas had almost come round again,
and Margaret was sitting in her workroom,
perplexed and uneasy. For anyone
so susceptible to the influence of
the weather as Margaret, it was the
very worst day she could have chosen
for the consideration of any weighty
matter. The rain was coming down in
torrents, and had been doing so ever
since an early hour of the morning, and
Margaret's thoughts were almost as gloomy
as the weather. She had suddenly come

face to face with a difficulty, the way out
of which she saw plainly enough, but she
could not tell whether she might allow
herself to take it or not. The wish that
was pressing upon her was to tell Angela
of her marriage. As she sat, reviewing
possibilities and asking herself whether the
luxury of unburdening herself to her friend
might be permitted to her, her face was
very thoughtful, and the hand which lay
in her lap holding an open letter was
clasped tightly.

Though seated in her workroom, she
was not working. She must have been
seated for some time in that attitude of deep
reflection, for the fire which had been
burning in the grate had sunk very low
and had almost gone out ; the red cinders
were making that peculiar wrinkling noise
which warns us that if not mended at once

the fire will very soon be a thing of the
past.

Margaret's eyes were turned towards the
window. Whenever she was in any difficulty,
her eyes always turned in the direction
whence came the light ; and the
expression in them, though brave and
hopeful, was yet graver and more anxious
than it had formerly been.

She was at this moment thinking of her
child. It was her child who caused the
words, " he could not be angry," to rise to
her lips, and who made her take up again
the letter which lay in her lap, and read it
through once more.

It was a letter from a lady living in a
remote part of Wales, and whose name was
entirely unknown to Margaret, but whose
acquaintance, it appeared, she was in a short
time to make.

The writer of the letter, a Mrs. Davies
wrote to solicit Margaret's services for the
beautification of her dining-room and halL
She explained that the rector had just
abolished the old-fashioned, high oak pews
in the village church ; she had purchased
the oak, and panelled her hall and diningroom
therewith. Plain oak panels, however,
were not sufficient for her, she wished
them to be carved ; and, after considering
the names of several eminent carvers who
had been mentioned to her, she had decided
to employ Miss Terry, if Miss Terry would
undertake the work.

It was a pleasant letter, and Margaret at
once decided to accept the commission, and
had written to say so, and to fix the date of
her journey. Mrs. Davies lived in a remote
Welsh village, removed fully five miles
from any centre of civilization, where even

VOL. III. 'So

the postman did not penetrate, the letters
being brought by a groom from the nearest
post-office.

It was only after she had written to say
she would go that she had been assailed by
doubts and fears, of which her child was
the object. It was not the first time she
had left London for weeks together, without
a fear or foreboding, and had returned to
find the boy as well and happy as when she
went away. She could not tell why this
time she felt a vague disagreeable uneasiness,
which she found impossible to shake
off, and yet for which she could discover
no reason whatever. Only the afternoon
before she had spent with Eustace, and had
revelled in his perfect health and strength,
feeling more than a mother's pride in his
brave beauty and ready speech. There was
absolutely no reason why she should feel

anxious about him, and yet the thought of
going into Wales, and leaving him for
perhaps three months, made her so miserable,
she was almost tempted to throw up
this commission, and write to Mrs. Davies,
telling her she would not be able to come
to her.

It was useless to think of Mrs. Bannister
and her words  " If you ever want the
child to go away, you must let me have
him at Fencehurst. I shall be offended if
you send him elsewhere "  because Mrs.
Bannister and her husband had gone to
Italy in the beginning of the winter.

There seemed to be only one thing to be
done. Either she must go to Wales, leaving
Eustace in the sole care of Mrs. Brown,
and be miserable the whole time she was
away, or she must tell Angela about her
marriage, and ask her to look after the

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF II! iNOf

child during her absence. In the first
instance she would be obeying Oswald, in
the second, running counter to his clearly
expressed, parting wish.

But," she argued with herself, " he
could not be angry ; he has confidence
enough with me to know I would not
disregard his wish without good reason.
I did not know Angel when we were
married ; neither he nor I could foresee a
case like this. I should never forgive
myself if anything happened to the child
which I could think might have been
prevented if Angela had been with him ;
neither would Oswald ever forgive me. It
is better she should know."

Having; set her mind at rest on that
point, she could not conceal from herself
that it would be difficult to make her confession
to her friend. Considering Miss

Darling's character, it was to be expected
that she would receive the intelligence in a
manner differing from the world at large.
She might even be offended at having been
for so long kept in the dark, and at the
thought Margaret's colour rose painfully,
and she began nervously to wring her
hands. It would be very easy to tell lier
of her marriage with Oswald by her side,
and her child in her arms, but she felt that
to go through the ordeal alone and unaided
would be difficult indeed.

'' And yet," she thought, " what right
have I to feel afraid. Are we not
friends ? "

And she felt that her confession would
prove the test of Angela's friendship for
her.

While she sat thinking about how and
when she should speak, the door behind

lier opened slowly, and a well-known voice-cried


After all you told me the last time I
was here, I expected to find you working-like
a steam-engine, and here you are as
idle as myself."

Margaret rose from her chair, saying 

You are the very person I wanted to
see. Angel."

That is satisfactory, seeing that I have
just come from a place where I know I
was the very person they did not want to
see."

'' Where was that ? "

Mrs. Welford's. I had been reflecting
on what you told me the other day about
it being time I went to call, and, as I had
a free afternoon to-day, I came over."

On such a wet day ! You are indeed
devoted."

' I always call on people I don't like on
wet clays," answered Angela, frankly. " I
have not the irritating feeling that I have
wasted a fine afternoon ; and they always
think how devoted I must be to them to
brave such bad weather for their sake."

True to yourself," said Margaret, laughing.
" Am I one of the persons you do
not like ? "

Exceptions prove the rule," answered
the girl, gaily. Then she went on, " What
have you been doing ? I felt quite alarmed
when I came in and saw you sitting idle,
with the fire out, and that stricken look
upon your face. What has happened ? "

The light tone in which Angela spoke
struck chill upon Margaret's heart; but,
seizing all her courage, she said 

Never mind the fire ; I had been thinking.
I have something to tell you. Come

into the other room ; it is pleasant
there."

She led the way without further speech,
and something in her voice or manner
must have struck Angel, for she too was
silent as they passed from one room to
the other ; neither did she speak until they
were seated by the fire, as they had so
often sat before. Then she said 

Now, what is it you have to tell me ? "

There was again silence for a moment.
Margaret's heart was beating so that she
could not speak. Then, without any warning
or preparation, she said, looking straight
into her friend's face 

Angel, I am married."

Angela did not at once make answer,
and she went on 

I was married before I knew you."

She was looking, as has been said.

straight into Miss Darling's face, no shadow
of the expression on which could have
escaped her. She was waiting in breathless
suspense to see how she took the
news. "Would she laugh ? would she be
angry ?

Neither thing happened. Angela was
silent for a moment, then she said simply 

You want me to help you. What can
I do ? "

It was not until she was thinking over
the interview afterwards that Margaret was
struck by the fact, that no sooner had
Angel heard she was married than she
took it for a settled thing that she must be
in need of help. At the moment she was
only conscious of a sensation of joy and
relief  joy that Angel knew who she was,
relief that she did not laugh.

The revulsion of feeling was so strong

that she was not at once able to go on
speaking. Angel asked her some questions
to which she replied she hardly knew what
or how. Then Angel asked 

Who is your husband, Margaret ? "

Do you remember," asked Margaret
quickly, " how we talked once of that
great bank failure of the Saxenholme's, and
you said you thought the only one of the
family worth anything was Oswald the
second son ? "

The one who went on that African
expedition ? Yes."

"He is my husband," raising her head
proudly.

He ! " echoed Angela, and was silent.

After a moment she rose from her chair,
and crossing in front of the fire, knelt by
Margaret's side, and, while she clasped
both her hands tightly in her own, said,

her eyes bright with what in those of anyone
else one would have called tears 

"It is a year since those men ought to
have been back in England, and no one
knows what has become of them. Margaret,
how you must have suffered ! "

Her voice was low and sweet, tender as
that of the softest-hearted woman. Well
though she knew Angel, Margaret had not
thought her capable of showing so much
feeling. But the soft, soothing words did
their work ; they opened the floodgates of
Margaret's heart, and, bowing her head
on to her friend's shoulder, she Avert until
her burden of sorrow, anxiety, and pain
seemed washed away, and she no longer
felt as though she were standing alone on
one side, and the world on the other.

It was a long time after Angel's last
words that she spoke again, in a low, murmuring

tone of sympathy, asking to be
told how it happened.

And Margaret told, until there was not
the least detail concerning her relation
with Oswald which Angel did not know.
Angel listened in silence, her lips parting
from time to time in a smile that was
hardly like her own.

When Margaret had done, Angel said
slowly 

I remember a hundred times that I
have laughed at and made fun of those
men. How you must have hated me ! Can
you ever forgive me ? "

"' You always said you where sure they
would come safely back. Your confidence
soften kept up my courage when it was
nearly gone."

After some further conversation on the
subject of little Eustace, Angel rose to go.

leaving Margaret in a far happier frame of
mind than she had enjoyed for some time.
Angela, meanwhile, made her way home.
At the station she fell in with one of her
colleagues, also returning to Dullerton, so
that she was unable to think over margaret's
disclosure before she was settled in
her comfortable little sitting-room, where
she seated herself by the fire and prepared
to think out the situation.

Margaret was married. Angela was far
less surprised at the tidings than might
have been expected, because she knew that
Margaret's opinions on the subject differed
greatly from her own, and because it
harmonized well with her knowledge of
Margaret's character to imagine her doing*
just some unselfish, quixotic deed as in fact
she had done. Nevertheless, when she
thought of it a smile j)iled her lijs  a

smile of affection, it is true, but still a
smile. It was, she reflected, so like Margaret.
Had she heard of any one else
doing such a thing, she would have said
she was a fool, and deserved to suffer for
her pains ; but as soon as Margaret stepped
in, the whole affair took a different aspect,
and appeared like a piece of divine
generosity and self-sacrifice. Margaret
was the kind of woman with whom one
instinctively associated great deeds, only
in this case the great deed seemed somehow
to have got on to the wrong side, and
to have been done by her for her husband,
instead of by her husband for her. So
Angela mused, and when she had reached
this point in her meditations the smile hovering
round her lips took a more sarcastic expression.
And the ' child ? she went on.
Angela did not like children, and little

Eustace was undeniably a stumbling-block.
With Margaret for his mother, he must be
as nice as it was possible for a child to be,
and since she had promised to look after
him, she would, of course, spend every
available moment under Mrs. Brown's roof,
but she could not help wishing that he had
not been there. Then she was overcome
by the thought of the suffering Margaret
must have gone through, her thoughts
became more troubled, and finally her
philosophy deserted her altogether, and
had her enemies beheld her at this moment,
great would have been their triumph.

CHAPTER IV.

And must the first, who teaches me
The form of shrouds and funerals, be
Mine own first-born beloved ? he
Who taught me first this mother-love ? "

Margaret had been in Wales two or three
weeks, and Christmas was close at hand.
So far her anxiety on little Eustace's
account had been without foundation ; the
child was well and likely to continue so.
Angela had been two or three times to
visit her charge during this time, she
would have gone more frequently, but had
not leisure. Her Christmas holidays were
close at hand, and her time was fully occupied
with examinations and reports.

Nevertheless, she had stolen two or three
afternoons, and made up the lost time by
working far into the night.

These visits had always brought her
pleasure. She had made up her mind that
Eustace must be as agreeable as it responsible
for a child to be, nor had she been
disappointed. Added to this, the child
was excessively fond of her, for, in spite of
her want of affection for children, she was
always a favourite with them ; perhaps
they were attracted by her bright face and
gay smile. Eustace had formed no exception
to the rule : he had picked up her
name on the day when she first went to
see him with his mother, and he had called
her " darling " ever since. In this way
her visits, though paid at some inconvenience
to herself, were never burdensome
to her, and her only regret was that she
VOL. III. 36

could not see the child as often as his
mother would have done had she been at
home.

She often thought of Margaret's marriage,
and the more she thought the less she was
surprised at it, though she wished she had
not done it. At the same time, she was
prepared to defend Margaret before all the
world, should the time ever come when
she might need her defence. She would
never own that she had any doubt of the
perfect wisdom of her friend's marriage ;
and as one night she had gone to bed full
of these thoughts, so she was still occupied
with them when she came downstairs on
the following morning.

She was glad that the time of the
examinations, etc., was nearly over. Two
days more, and she would be able to spend
every day and all day long with Eustace.

Filled with this resolve she sat down to
breakfast, and took up the letters which lay
beside her plate. They were two, one
from Margaret, and one directed in an
unknown, uneducated hand, and which
Angel concluded to be from Mrs. Brown.
Margaret's letter was written in good
spirits, and contained many expressions of
gratitude for Angel's " great kindness'*
which expression caused the lips of her
who read them to smile.

Mrs. Brown's letter was opened last,
perhaps because, in accordance with the
proverb, it was not least in importance. It
was a short epistle, a shabby messenger of
fate. It informed Angela, in badly written,
worse spelt words, that as she had not
been over for two or three days, she (Mrs.
Brown) thought it right to send her word
that the little master had a nasty cough,

which had come on a day or two before,
and which refused to yield to her simple
remedies. She had not thought it necessary
to call in the doctor, but thought perhaps
Miss Darling would like to know, as Mrs.
Saxenholme was always terribly anxious
about the child.

Angela read the letter two or three
times, and she was conscious as she did so
that her heart was beating faster than
usual with an ill-defined dread, and that
after she had put aside the letter and sat
thinking of its contents, though she kept
repeating, 'rit is only a cough ; any child
may have a cough." She was fighting
against a possibility which would suggest
itself in spite of her indifferent words.

She quickly made up her mind what todo.
In spite of examinations and reports,
she went forthwith to the house of the

head mistress and begged an audience.
Admitted into Miss Brother's presence, she
requested leave of absence for a few days,
and supported her appeal with such urgent
reasons that her " chief," though at first surprised
and naturally a little annoyed that
any of her staff should ask to be spared at
such a busy time, finally gave her consent.
Indeed, Angel told her frankly that, did
she withhold her permission, she must go,
even at the risk of losing her post. Miss
Brother could not suppress a smile at the
sudden burst of enthusiasm for a child on
the part of the coldest of her teachers, but
she gave her permission, and Miss Darling
left her.

It was still early in the day when
Angela entered Mrs. Brown's cottage, and
found that worthy busy with the cares of
her household, and little Eustace up and

dressed, but looking ill and unhappy.
The young lady briefly explained the
errand on which she had come, and
announced her intention of staying to
nurse the child. While Mrs. Brown was
still exhausting herself in conjectures and
exclamations, Angel had already taken the
little boy upstairs and put him to bed, and,
again descending to the kitchen, bade Mrs.
Brown to go for the doctor at once.

An hour later the doctor had paid his
visit and gone away, leaving behind him a
heart chilled with dread. Miss Darling's
first forebodings had been verified : Eustace
had a bad attack of croup. Had it been
attended to at once, said the doctor, it
would have been comparatively mild ; but
three days had passed since the complaint
began, and he could not answer for the
result.

Angela heard him in silence. She was
thinking of Margaret, and asking herself
how she would bear this realization of her
ill-defined fear. But all the time she
listened to the doctor's voice, and marked
his directions with a correctness as though
she had no interest in the life or death of
this child. When he was gone, she sent a
telegram to Margaret, bidding her come at
once. This done, she awaited her friend's
coming, while she did not move from the
child's bedside. The day passed, but
Margaret did not come. In the afternoon
she had written, giving a detailed account
of what had taken place, not omitting the
doctor's grave words. " For," she thought,
what is the pain of knowing her child
may die, to the pain of coming home and
finding it dead ? All night through she
sat by the side of the little bed, nursing

Eustace with a patience and devotion
which might have been a mother's.

Yet, after all, it was not for the child's
sake that her heart grew sick with fear
when she thought of how this might end ;
it was not for the child that a pain pierced
her heart when the fearful fits of coughing
came on, which shook the child from head
to foot : it was the thought of Margaret
and her desolation if the worst should
happen. Her husband far away and perhaps
no longer alive, her only child dead, what
wonder if the blow should prove too heavy
for her ?

Unskilled though Angel was in illness of
any kind, in children's illness most of all,
even she could see, when the morning came,
that the child was no better ; and the
doctor's visit only confirmed her fears. In
twelve hours the child's suffering would be
over.

In twelve hours bis mother may be
here, if she got my letter this morning,"
was all Angel's answer to this sentence.
And when he had gone away, she sat repeating
this to herself to get what comfort
from it she might.

But would Margaret get the letter ? She
-iiad told Angela that the letters were sent
for three times a week ; this might not be
one of the days. True, she had written " To
be delivered at once " on the envelope, but
who could tell if the direction would be
carried out ? She telegraphed again, and
then began to ask herself whether she
ought not send some one to bring Margaret
back; but whom could she send ? There
was no one to go except herself, and if she
did that, who would stay with Eustace ?
Should they arrive too late, how she would
reproach herself! There was nothing to do

but watch and hope against hope ; and so
the second day dragged out its weary
length, each minute seeming an hour ; and
yet how swiftly the hours flew by, bringing
round the one when the child by her side
would lie lifeless.

At eleven o'clock that night Angela sat
with bowed head by the dead child, and in
her hand was a telegram, bearing the words
that Margaret was hurrying to her as fast
as express trains would carry her.

Four days later, Margaret and Angela
were sitting in the room of the former.
They had returned to London that afternoon,
and as during Angela's absence the
Christmas holidays had begun, she had no
intention of immediately returning to
Dullerton, but had agreed to Margaret's
request to remain with her until the High
School reopened.

It was already dusk, and the lamp was
lighted, but as the two women were placed
the light fell fully upon one face, while the
other was only dimly visible in the shadow.

Margaret was seated at a table, upon
which stood the lamp, her elbow rested
upon it ; her chin was supported upon her
palm. She was greatly altered since the
day when she had left London for Wales.
Her face was white and sad, and her whole
attitude expressed a weariness and listlessness
completely foreign to her usual bearing.
Dark circles, telling of sleepless
nights, were under her eyes ; and, even in
the few days which had passed since she
left Wales, she had become thinner. Perhaps
this attitude and these signs of grief
suited the calm, grave character of her
beauty ; at any rate, the nobility of her face
was in no wise lessened by the pallor and

weariness which overspread it. She was
speaking, and her voice was low and spiritless,
as she told her friend in detail the
account of her journey home, for, odd
though it may seem, this, the fourth day
after little Eustace's death, was the first on
which they had spoken of what had prevented
Margaret from being in time to see
her child die.

You see," Margaret was saying, " I got
your three messages together, and that only
by accident. It was the day you telegraphed
the second time, Mrs. Davies had
driven into the village, and called, as she
often did, at the post-office, to see if there
were any letters for the house. The woman
gave her your letter and the two telegrams,
the second of which had just been received,
and excused herself for not having sent
them on by saying that her son had a bad

cold, and it was nasty weather for going-out.
Mrs. Davies spoke very severely to
lier, and brought the things home to me.
If only I had driven with her as she had
wished, I could have started at once, and
perhaps arrived in time, but I thought
every hour spent away from my work was
another hour spent away from my child.
As it was, I lost some hours. There are not
many trains that stop at Llandaff ; and, you
know", when I got to London the last down
train had left, and I had to drive, losing
much time in that way."

She was silent; neither did Angela speak.
Margaret's voice was perfectly calm and
firm, and it was quite steady as she
went on 

It would be of no use trying to tell you
what I felt when I got those telegrams and
the letter, nor in what state of mind I cameo

London. You know low uneasy I was
before I went, and how that feeling was
lightened after I told you all. All my
fears came back when I read your letter. I
knew quite well that Eustace would not
live. And I have to thank you, Angel, for
writing so straightforwardly ; if your letter
had been less plainly worded, I should have
suffered more even than I did. When I had
read it, I knew the worst, and was prepared
for it. All through the journey I felt glad
you were with him, and that if I did not
come in time he would not die alone. Then,
when I got there, when I saw your face
and knew I was too late, all I wanted was
to lie down by the child and die too."

She laid her arms upon the table as she
spoke, and hid her face on them. Over
the pale face of the girl seated in the
shadow passed a quick change of expression,

almost a convulsion ; the set lips
quivered and parted, as if she would speak,
but she remained silent, and a film seemed
to gather over the beautiful eyes. But she
made no motion to approach Margaret ; the
only change made in her position was that
the slender fingers, lying loosely in her lap,
suddenly interlaced one another and were
pressed hard together.

If I could only die ! " went on Margaret,
after a long pause, rising and beginning to
]Dace the room from end to end. " Of what
use is my life to myself or any one else ?
For years I have been living a lie, deceiving
all my friends, neglecting my highest
duties. If I had had courage to withstand
Oswald, I should never have agreed to this
silence, my child would have lived with me
instead of with strangers, and he would
have been alive now, my little Eustace ! "

She clasped her hands with a gesture of
despair, and still Angel was silent. She
was feeling her own helplessness very
keenly. How could she enter into this
mother's sorrow ? Of what avail would be
such lame words of comfort as she could
speak? How could she understand the
despair of the child's mother, when her
chief anxiety during the child's illness had
been for its mother, and not for itself? And
Margaret went on passionately , despairingly .
It seemed as though this great grief had
changed her nature ; in this terrible
moment she spoke as she never would have
done had she been herself

I have nothing left to live for," she
went on. '' My child is dead; my husband,
in all probability, is dead too  dead in the
wilderness, never knowing that he had a
child. "Why did I ever marry ? Why
cannot I die too ? "

Again she was silent. As though exhausted,
she sank upon the couch, letting-her
head fall on to the cushions.

Angela had sat motionless while Margaret
was speaking, her face growing whiter
and whiter. When Margaret's voice had
ceased, she rose and crossed the room as
though to join her friend ; but her step
seemed unsteady, and when she had gone
half-way she remained standing.

Margaret ! '' she cried, and her voice
was low and hard ; " you will break my
heart if you speak like that. It is true
that you have lost your child and your
husband. I cannot take their place, but I
am your friend. A friend is something.
Ask of me what you will, and I will do it*'

While Angela spoke, Margaret raised her
head and listened. When she had finished,
without speaking, she stretched out her

VOL. III. 37

arms, and in an instant Angel was kneeling
by her side, her arms round Margaret,
Margaret's head on Angel's breast. Long
they remained so without speaking, the
silence only broken by Margaret's weeping.
When Angel at last rose to her feet there
were tears on her cheeks too.

It was late before they parted that night,
and though neither said anything, each
felt that come good, come evil, they were
friends for ever.

CHAPTER V.

" How shall I answer thy request for love ?
Look in my face and see.
I love thee not."

Love you seek for, presupposes
Summer heat and sunny glow,
Tell me, do you find moss roses
Budding, blooming in the snow ? "

Margaret did not fall ill after the death of
her child, but she went about her work ina
dull, purposeless way that made Angel's
heart ache. She seemed to have lost all
interest in life, her work no longer delighted
her ; everything she did seemed to require
an effort which she had hardly strength
to make.

Philip soon noticed the change, and he
asked all kinds of questions concerning its
cause, some of which were not always easy
to answer. So the winter passed, and it
was nearly over when that happened which
gave life a new interest in Margaret's eye.

The first intimation of what was coming
was given her by Philip, one afternoon
when he had called at her rooms. They
had been speaking of Angel, and Philip
said 

You know how this will end, Margaret.
I must speak to her."

Do not be in a hurry," she said, almost
entreatingly.

He laughed.

A hurry ! I have loved her ever since
I have known her. Do you call that in a
hurry ? I cannot go on for ever like this ;
I must know whether I am successful or

not. Do you think I have been successful
so far ? "

Margaret looked troubled.

You are the best judge of that, Philip."

'- 1 am no judge at all, but I understand
you. You think I have no chance."

*' Indeed, Philip, you are mistaken.
How can I tell ? Angel never speaks of
such things to me."

She must know I love her. Do you not
think so ? "

She cannot fail to have seen it."

Ah ! well, I must put my fortune to the
test, and the sooner the better, I think."

'' If you are not sure of her, do not
speak."

I should be miserable if I thought I
could not win her."

"It is better that one should be miserable
than two," she said, in a low voice.

He was silent for some time, and then
said 

Margaret, if you will give me a chance
I will speak to Miss Darling tomorrow."

I will do what I can to help you,
Philip."

How coldly you speak. I do not
believe you care whether I succeed or not."

You are unjust. Nothing would make
me happier than to know that you and
Angel were to be married ; only "

"Only what?"

Are you quite sure you are suited to
one another ? You know, Angel is not like
other girls, and if you made a mistake it
would be very terrible for both of you."

Philip smiled.

I know that I love Miss Darling."

"But does she love you? Angel is so
eccentric she would marry and say she had

done it out of curiosity, for an experiment.
But you cannot marry for an experiment ;
you must abide by it. Do not surprise her
into that kind of thing."

I am not an adventurer, my dear."
I know, I know. You are a great deal
older than I am. You are perhaps thinking
me very impertinent to speak to you
like this ; but Angel is my age, and I think
I know her better than you do."

I should like to hear your advice."
She coloured a little,  the tone mio-ht
have been more kindly ; but she went on.

Take care how you speak to her,
Philip. Do not be too masterful, or she
will laugh at you and defy you to prove
your power over her ; and do not be too
humble, or she will say that if ever she
marries, her husband shall be a man and
not a slave."

Philip bit this lip. He felt that Margaret's
advice was good and that it would be
exceedingly difficult to list the right road
that should lead straight to Angel's heart.

The following afternoon Angel arrived,
to stay till Monday morning with her
friend. Margaret found, Awhile searching
among some papers for a, new design upon
which she wished to have Angel's opinion,
an invitation for the same evenings which
she had completely forgotten. Lie showed
it to Miss Darling, saying 

'' I am so sorry, Angel, that I shall have
to leave you."

Do ]iot take that apologetic tone. I
hope you Avill enjoy yourself. You must
not think of me."

I shall not be late ; it is only a small
affair."

Do not hurry home on my account. I

am very comfortable at present, and shall
very well manage to spend an evening by
myself. I am used to it."

You will not be alone all the time.
Philip spoke of coming in."

Very good. But you must go and get
ready, or you will be late."

Margaret went, and in a short time
returned ready dressed, and with a request
that Angel would fasten her bracelet.

Do I look well ? " she asked, seeing
Angel's eyes dwell upon her.

You look so lovely that I begin to
think, in charity to the other women who
are likely to be there, you had better stay
at home."

As they sat waiting for the cab Philip
arrived, and a few moments later Margaret
drove away, leaving Philip and Angel
together.

After they had sat for some time almost
in silence, Angel said 

If we are to pass the whole evening
together, I think we had better spend the
shining hour in an improving way. Will
you read to me, Mr. Welford ? "

Philip rose and examined the bookshelves.
Presently he returned to his seat
with a volume of poems in his hand.

Poems ! " said Angel. " Well, as you
like ; I do not mind."

He turned over the pages till he came to
one of his favourite sonnets, which he read
aloud. When he had finished. Angel made
no comment.

How do you like it ? " he asked.

I dare say it is beautiful, but I do not
understand such things."

What things ? "

People being in love, and so on."

Philip drew his eyebrows together. He
knew what he had come that night to say,
and it was awkward of Angel to begin to
talk in this way, almost as though she
knew what was in his mind.

Do you not believe," he asked, '' that
a woman can be so completely under the
influence of a man that she will do whatever
he wishes, whether it be for good or
evil ? "

It may be so with some women. I
never had any such experience, so that I
cannot judge."

She spoke coldly and indifferently ; the
subject had no sort of interest for her.
Philip saw it, and felt he had made a
mistake, and for a short time there was
silence between them. But he was impatient
and eager to know his fate, and
ere long he spoke again.

'' I want to ask yon ;i question, Miss
Darling."

"Yes," replied Angel, absently. She
was embroidering a delicate cambric handkerchief
with Margaret's monogram, and
the work demanded her whole attention.

Philip waited a moment ; but she said
no more, and at last he spoke again, with
some constraint.

I should be much obliged if you would
give me your whole attention. Miss
Darling."

"Yes, certainly," said Angel, and she
put her work down in her lap. But there
was a fold between her eyes ; his pertinacity
rather annoyed her. '' Is it about anything
important ? " she went on.

To me it is the most important question
I ever asked any one," he said, almost
.solemnly.

Angel raised her eyebrows slightly ; but
she guessed what was coming, and m entail v
indulged the most uncharitable thought
concerning !margaret that had ever entered
her mind.

I want to ask you," went on .PhiHp, " it*
you will be my wife ? ''

Your wife ? " said Angel, and then was-silent.


Her silence lasted so long that at last
Philip said 

Have you no answer at all for me ? "

Certainly. I was considering your request
; " and she resumed her former position,
leaning forward, her chin supported
on one slender white hand, her blue eyes
gazing into the fire.

Philip hardly knew how to interpret this
behaviour. He had not expected that Angel
would act in this manner ; but he judged it

best to let her " consider " in peace, and to
await quietly the outcome of her meditations.
It came at last, and if Philip had
been surprised before, he was doubly so
now, for she looked suddenly up, and
said 

' Have you ever thought that marriage
is a thing not to be lightly undertaken ? "

Philip controlled his surprise, and
answered quietly 

' I have always thought so."

Yes," she went on, now leaning back
in her chair and looking straight at him ;
' I believe that half the misery and sin in
the world would be prevented if people
would think more, and weigh the consequences
more carefully, before they marry."

'' Where do you think the fault lies ? "

In the fact that people marry before
they properly know and understand one

another. You may like any number of
people as friends, but if you were asked to
marry them it would be a very different
thing."

Certainly," growing more and more
amazed.

That is precisely our case."

I do not see it."

Still, it is so. I like you ; we are very
good friends, but I cannot marry you."

Philip was silent ; dumb before this
calm, dispassionate reasoning.

Do you mean that you do not love me ? "
he asked at length, and he was surprised to
find himself speaking so quietly.

Yes. I like you ; I like to see you and
talk to you, but if you were to go away fora
year, I should bear your absence with
perfect fortitude, though when you came
back I should be glad to see you again."

All this means that you will not marry
me ?

I think it would be better for both of
us that I should not."

Again he was silent. He had been quite
unprepared for such conduct on Angel's
part. Presently she went on 

You see, we are such good friends for
the reason that we do not see much of one
another. I dare say you have never found
it out, but yoa say half a dozen things that
annoy me every time we meet ; and I know
that I can very easily laugh you into a
passion. As we are situated at present,
this does not make any difference to us. If
we make ourselves perfectly obnoxious to
one another, we can separate and remain
apart as long as Ave like until we feel
friends again. Now, picture to yourself
you and me married. Remember that when

we disagreed, which we do often enough,
we could not each go our own way until
the soreness had rubbed off ; we should have
to be always together  we could never
forget our differences. Do you see ? "

She paused, and her " Do you see ? "
seemed to echo in Philip's ears ; but he
said 

"I see that you have made a very
elaborate calculation ; but you have left out
one important point, without which all the
rest is as nothing. You have forgotten
that I love you, and would not do anything
to vex you."

She waved her hand with a gesture of
impatience.

"You could not help it. I think if I
were married to you and had to live with
you always, and could not get free, everything
you did would annoy me beyond
VOL. III. 38

measure. You could not help annoying meany
more than you could help wishing not
to annoy me."

"I think you are speaking rather
strongly."

I am not. I do not think I am at all
fitted to be married."

He frowned. "You are talking nonsense.
All women are fitted to be married."

She shook her head. " Some less than
others, and others, again, not at all. There
are some women who have been kept in
subjection all their lives. They have never
thought or acted for themselves ; they have
always had some one to look after and
direct them. To such women marriage is
the natural end of their existence ; it means
nothing further than a new lord and a new
temple to worship him in. I have not
lived like that. I have been self-dependent

all my life. I have been accountable to no
one for my actions, but have always done
what seemed good to myself. I have
chosen my own path without giving my
reasons to any one. I have always acted
for myself. I can support myself, and ask
no one for help or protection. I have been
free all my life, and to me marriage would
be slavery. I could not give up my liberty
to one whom I hold no wiser or better
than myself."

You are not required to give up your
liberty : a man does not generally wish to
make a slave of his wife. You would be
as free as you are now."

Again her brows drew together, and she
waved her hand impatiently. ,

"You are talking nonsense," she said,
quietly. And now their positions were
reversed : he was sitting down, she stood

leaning against the chimney piece. " No
married woman is free ; the thing would be
impossible. A woman's husband is her
master. However little he may use his
power, it is there, and he is free to use it
when he chooses ; she can never feel safe.
I never had a master, and I do not wish for
one," she concluded, curtly.

But do you suppose," he urged, " that
I should treat you in any way but as my
equal ? "

"Do you suppose," she made answer
promptly, " that I should be satisfied with
the appearance of equality if the reality
were not there ? "

Do you mean," he cried, somewhat excitedly,
" that you will not marry until
women are legally declared to have equal
rights with men ? "

Yes."

He did not speak ; and she, apparently
thinking the discussion was at an end,
moved away to the piano, and began to
play from the music that lay open before
her.

Philip listened half unconsciously. Though
he knew the air perfectly well, he could not
have told what she was playing ; yet the
sounds smote upon his ears and moved him
out of himself. He told himself that he
could not let her go like this. Her quiet,
indifferent reception of his suit made her
more desirable to him than ever. He felt
he must speak again.

When Angela had finished playing, she
rose from the piano and moved rather
restlessly about the room. She had not
been prepared for Philip's proposal, and,
though she had received it very quietly
and enthusiastically, no one ever knew

how much she had been moved by it,
neither dared she let Philip see all she
felt. Presently she returned to the fire
and sat down on the low easy-chair she
had occupied before.

Philip, from the shadow in which he sat,.
had watched her every movement, and
something in her silence, or her manner,
or her expression moved him to speak
again. He pleaded long, and spoke nobly
and well. He felt indeed that the subject
lay very near his heart  that to lose
Angela would be to lose what he prized
most highly in the world, and his earnestness
gave force and dignity to his words.
This time Angel listened in silence, and
when he had finished, she was still silent.
He had moved her, and moved her against
her will, and her answer showed it.

I consent to what you wish," she said

at last ; but I give my consent subject to
some conditions. I am yielding against
my own judgment, for I know myself and
what I can do better than you can. It
is a wide step from friendship to marriage,
and I claim a year to take it in. I will
be engaged to you for a year, but if within
that time you see any reason for withdrawing
from the engagement, you will be at
liberty to do so, and I claim the same
right for myself. It is less an engagement,
remember, than an experiment. Weare
going to spend a year in learning to
know one another. If we find it does not
answer, we can give it up ; if it answers,
I shall be ready to fulfil my part of the
contract."

It was a strange compact, and Philips
felt it, to be so, for he said 

Is that all you can give me ? "

"At present, yes. You can take it or
leave it, as you choose."

And you would not care which I
did ? " he said bitterly.

No," she said quietly ; " as I am now
I should not care."

He was silent ; then he said, passionately


"I do not believe any man before me
ever entered into such an engagement.
But I can't lose you; I cannot give you
up. I must take even a chance of winning
you. May I call you ' Angel ' ? " he went
on, as she said nothing.

Yes."

And may I come and see you at
Dullerton ? "

Yes ; come whenever you like. It is
part of the experiment. The more we see
of each other the better we shall know

each other, and be able to judge whether
we ought to marry."

After this they resumed the reading ;
and when Margaret returned, she found
Angel working and Philip reading so
exactly as they were in the habit of doing
that she could not discover whether Philip
had spoken or not.

CHAPTER VI.

Oh, poor lover, long may we
Live upon earth, till lover and beloved
Each is to each by one desire moved ! "

Angel lost no time in telling Margaret
about her engagement. The day after
Philip had spoken, she gave a detailed
account of all that had passed between
them  her first unhesitating refusal of
Philip's offer, and her subsequent conditional
acceptance of it. Margaret expressed
her pleasure in no measured terms,
and Angel listened to her with a look of
amusement on her face. When she had
finished speaking, she answered serenely 

Do not halloo till you are out of the
wood. Mr. Welford and I are not married
yet, and perhaps never will be."

Do not talk in that way. It sounds
as if you had made up your mind in
advance not to do it."

It sounds quite wrong, then. I do
not mean that I am only playing with
him, and intend to marry in the end, but
I am going to give everything a fair trial,
and let things turn out in their own
way."

I don't think you love Philip," said
Margaret, a little wistfully ; " and if you
do not love him now you never will."

Certainly, if our marriage were a case
of ' now or never,' it would be never, for
I could not marry him now."

You should not have got engaged to
him at all."

"My dear, I have explained to you
what kind of engagement it is, and remember,
it is to last a year. Much maybe
done in a year, and I shall try to
educate myself up to the requisite pitch of
enthusiasm."

Margaret shook her head, and after a
slight hesitation, said 

Do not answer unless you like, Angel ;
but do you think you will succeed ? "

Of course I will answer, and truly.
I have not the faintest idea as to whether
I shall succeed or not."

With that Margaret had to be content.
She could get no further assurance of her
friend's future.

The first time Philip called at Dullerton
Angel was still at school. He accordingly
went into her sitting-room, and waited for
her. He had not long to wait ; in less

than ten minutes she came in. No change
passed over her face when she saw who
her visitor was. She went forward and
greeted him cordially enough, but he did
not gather from her manner that she was
particularly glad to see him. He took
heart of grace, however, and presently'
drawing a case from his pocket, he took
from it a magnificent diamond ring, which
he handed to his companion, asking if she
admired it.

She examined it curiously.

Yes," she said at last, giving it back
to him. " I never saw a finer diamond.
Is it your ring ? "

Angel ! " he exclaimed ; " you know it
is for you. For whom else should I buy
a diamond ring ? "

' I suppose you may buy as many for
yourself as you choose."

I never did such a thing in my life."

I don't see why you should call it
such a thing ' in that way. Lots of men
do it. There is a man at Bleak Moor, and
you see his diamond ring a long time
before you see himself."

At any rate, this is for you. Let me
put it on your finger."

But she clasped her hands lightly before
her, and said 

To me a ring always conveys an idea
of being in bondage. I will wait until weare
married before I wear one."

He protested, but she was firm.

I do not like rings," she said. " You
may notice that I never wear one, although
I have half a dozen at home that I let
Syb wear."

"But this is not an ordinary ring; it
is to ratify our engagement."

"I do not see what we need with such
signs and tokens. If we need a ring to
keep US true to one another, we had better
part at once."

He had to yield, and perhaps that was
why the conversation flagged, though
Angel was as bright as ever, and spared
no pains to entertain her guest.

When Philip rose to leave he would
have kissed his betrothed, but she stepped
back, saying 

Do not kiss me, Philip. We may not
be married after all, and then I could not
bear to think you had ever kissed me."

He looked at her fixedly for a moment,
and the blood mounted to his cheeks and
the fire to his eyes.

Do you intend to give me none of
the privileges of your affianced husband,
Angel ? " he asked.

No, I cannot. If you do not like the
arrangement you can let me go."

He laughed. "No, I can't, and you
know it ; only do not try me too much."

Then he went ; and that first call was
not entirely satisfactory.

Mrs. Welford was indignant when the
engagement was made known to her;
Madge and Elsa were aghast. Mrs.
Welford now recalled her schemes against
Margaret, whom she had branded in her
mind as '* disgracefully free and independent."
What was she compared to
Angel, to this " daughter of Heth," who
feared neither man nor woman, whose eyes
looked as straight and unwavering from
under their level brows as ever Margaret's
had done, whose tongue was as a pointed
arrow, and poisoned withal ? She recalled
Angel's light words when she laughed

down the idea of any one's possessing
principles which might jar against his
inclinations. She thought of all she had
seen and heard of Angel Darling, and
the longer she thought the sterner and
harsher grew the lines in her face. Philip
had always been her favourite child, and
the idea that he was going to ruin through
an infatuation for one woman was very
painful.

Madge and Elsa were struck dumb with
astonishment. On the few occasions when
they had met Angel, she had overpowered
them with her height, her beauty, her flow
of witty words. Madge had shrunk into
a corner, frightened. Elsa had quickly
discovered that her pretty face and infantile
manners failed to attract where
Angel was present, and she cherished a
grudge of envy and anger against Miss

VOL. III. 39

Darling. Now this same Miss Darling
was to be their sister, their brother Philip's
wife. They could hardly realize it.

Nevertheless, Mrs. Welford knew her
duty. She wrote to Angel, and named a
day on which she would call upon her at
Dullerton.

It must have been a spirit of perversity
which prompted Angel, half an hour before
Mrs. Welford, as she knew, would arrive,
to seat herself at her table and surround
herself with lesson books of all kinds.

She knew that Mrs. Welford would
dislike the engagement. She felt that one
reason for that lady's dislike would be the
fact that Angel herself was a teacher, and
earned her living by the work of her
brain. She was in no humour that day
to disguise her craft or suppress any outward
signs of it. Her calling was apparent

in every detail of the arrangement
of tier room.

So she sat this dull afternoon a little
before four o'clock, nor did she change her
attitude when she heard the house-bell
ring. It was only when the maid-servant
opened the sitting-room door and announced
' Mrs. Welford," that she raised her head
from her work, and turned to face her
visitor.

"Good afternoon, Mrs. Welford," she
said, courteously, rising and coming forward,
her right hand outstretched, though
her left still held the lead pencil she had
been using a moment before.

Good afternoon, Miss Darling," said
the elder lady, stifEy, letting it be seen
that she put pressure on herself even to
take Angel's frankly extended hand.

Angel pushed forward an easy-chair

for Mrs. Welford, while she resumed her
former position.

I hope I am not disturbing you," said
Mrs. Welford, coldly.

Not in the least. When I am at home
I always leave off working about four,
and have some tea ; " and she rose as she
spoke, and crossed the room to ring the
bell.

Angel's graceful ease was unwelcome to
Mrs. Welford. She thought it hard that
a mere governess, a *' nobody," as she
chose at that moment to consider the girl,
should be gifted with the manners and
speech of a perfect gentlewoman. Yet she
did her the justice to accredit her with
being a gentlewoman. " Otherwise,"
thought the fond mother, " she would
never have attracted Philip."

Mrs. Welford drank Angel's tea that

afternoon under protest. She had come
to Dullerton meaning to be overbearing
and disagreeable, to show Angel her place,
and to let her see that when she was
married she would have a mother-in-law
who was not to be trifled with.

She now found herself, to her great
surprise, drinking tea and conversing on
general topics in a way which, comparatively
speaking, was quite amiable. She
lead an uneasy feeling that it was owing
to Angel that she had not stood by her
colours. She had a half-consciousness that
in Miss Darling she had met a will as
strong as her own, and she resented the
idea. When she went away, she found
herself parting from her future daughter-in-law
outwardly with the greatest cordiality,
but feeling herself cheated and circumvented.


Few people knew of Angel's engagement.
She told none of her fellow-teachers,
nor the few other people she
knew in London. She wrote to her
mother, and explained fully the nature
of the engagement she had entered into
She was amused at the reply her short,
unenthusiastic note brought from her
mother. Mrs. Darling found it difficult
to express her joy that Angel had at last
found some one who suited her. She
did not hesitate to declare that it was
a great relief to her to be able to
shift the responsibility of her daughter's
wild doings on to the shoulders of someone
else.

Angel returned Mrs. Welford's call, but
afterwards told Philip he must not ask
her to repeat it.

I am not engaged to your mother's

she said, " and there is no necessity forme
to see much of her. If I am to visit
her often, I am afraid my powers of
endurance will not last very long."

Philip made haste to assure her that
there was no occasion for her to become
intimate with his mother.

After that first call Philip came frequently
to Dullerton, and spent an hour
or two there in the evening. And what
strange evenings they were ! Philip was
allowed to break in upon Angel's solitude
whenever he chose. She claimed the right
to carry on her usual occupations, as
though he were not there. Sometimes
she was too busy to address more than
half a dozen words to him ; at others she
was gay and bright enough, would throw
her work aside, and even propose some
form of amusement. But in whatever

humour she might be, grave or gay  and
it is only fair to add that she was very
seldom the former she never showed any
signs of tenderness. She was glad to see
him when he came, a perfect hostess while
he remained; but she never pressed him
to " come again soon," never complained
of the shortness or scarcity of his letters,
seldom asked any questions about himself
or anything that concerned him. He
might have forbidden her to question him,
so absolute was her silence ; and sometimes
he felt he would have given up a great
deal for the slightest sign of interest on
her part. Once he could no longer bear
her indifference, and, as he said " Goodbye,"
he asked 

"Do you think you will marry me in
the end, Angel ? "

If I thought so, I should not have

entered into the engagement I did," she
answered.

Then you think you will not ? "

If I thought so, I should not have
engaged myself to you at all."

' I cannot understand you," he said,
frowning as he turned away.

The old story ! A strange expression
same into her blue eyes, and an odd smile
hovered round her lips as she looked at
him, but she said nothing.

Again he went away, feeling dissatisfied.

The other day he had flattered himself
that he held her ; but did he ? If so, it
was by so weak a tie that at any moment
she wished she could spread her wings
and leave him, like some strange, untamed
bird, which had fluttered into his grasp
for a moment. The idea enraged him,
and yet he knew that it was no use rebelling

against it. And Margaret, wha
might have told him how to wind himself
more tightly round Angel's heart, was faraway,
beyond the sound of his voice.

CHAPTER VII.

May I be so converted, and see with these eyes ?
I cannot tell ; I think not.

Miss Darling's engagement did not effect
any difference in her character or her
mode of life. Perhaps she mentioned
Philip's name even more rarely than
formerly, but that was all the change
Margaret's watchful eyes could detect.
If she wanted to hear Angel talk of Philip,
she had to ask questions concerning him ;
Angela volunteered no information. They
had been speaking of him one day, when
Angela was paying a short visit to Margaret,

and Angela was asking, with lazy
curiosity 

Does lie always keep you posted up
in his writings, and so on ? "

Always. Why ? "

Because he does not often talk to me
about them, and his is a nature that must
confide in some one, at all risks."

Does he often come to Dullerton ? "

Very often. He is all the fondest
heart could desire."

Then you are satisfied ? "

Well, you see, I have not the fondest
heart ; and when we receive so many
unasked-for favours, I think we are apt
to feel a slight contempt for the too liberal
bestower."

Angela, what do you mean ? Have
you quarrelled with Philip ? "

*' Quarrelled ? Oh no!" with a little

light laugh. " It takes two to make a
quarrel, and, you know, I never fall out
and chide and fight. I was brought up
a Quaker."

Do be serious for a moment."

I am quite serious. You must not
imagine Philip and I have quarrelled.
We are on the same terms that we always
were, neither better nor worse."

In the spring Margaret went away for
some time. Angela had announced her
intention of spending her Easter holidays
at Dullerton, but they had hardly begun
when she joined Margaret in the country ;
and almost immediately after, Philip wrote
word that he was coming down for a few
days. The expression on Angel's face as
Margaret read out the news made her
exclaim 

You are not glad he is coming ! "

Miss Darling laughed. "No; I am
sorry."

She said no more, and Margaret was
silent too. Suddenly Angel broke out 

"I shall never do it, Margaret. If I
were to live with him, I should go mad.
Could he not see that when I came
here it was no more to be with you 
though, indeed, I was starving for a sight
of your face  than to get away from
him?"

Is that true ? " cried Margaret.

Quite true. If I had stayed longer
at Dullerton, I should have been desperate.
You know, we agreed he was to come and
see me as often as he chose. "We could
judge of nothing so long as we only met
occasionally. He used to come nearly
every day till I grew to hate him. I
seemed never to be free, never alone, and

it would be like that if we were married.
He used to say he would come and spend
the evening with me at such a time ; often
I have waited more than an hour before
he came, and he was always annoyed if
I had not waited tea for him. Those are
little things, but they are what one's life
is made up of. Life is not worth having
at such a price."

She paused, and Margaret said 
You must not marry him like this."
I do not intend to ; if I do not improve,
I shall give him up."

You ought to give him up now," said
Margaret, slowly ; for she was at the same
time giving up her own most cherished
project.

No ; I will try again. I promised
him a year ; we have only got through
a very short time. He has a right to

a longer trial ; besides, I am not going
to own myself beaten so soon."

She set her mouth as she spoke. Margaret
smiled sadly, saying 

Have you always felt like this ? "

No. At first I liked him ; we were
good friends. Then I grew tired of him.
To save my credit, I had to take refuge in
flight."

She laughed contemptuously as she
spoke. Margaret preserved a sorrowful
silence.

On the day that Philip came, Angel,
going into the sitting-room, found that
Margaret had not yet come down. She
must meet Philip alone.

There was not a shade either of welcome
or repulsion on her face as she entered
the room. She had pushed the door open
noiselessly, for it stood ajar; neither did

lier soft dress make any sound as it swept
over the carpet, and Philip was standing
with his back to the door. Yet he seemed
to know by intuition who was present 
for he turned, and his face lit up as he
stepped forward, saying 

Angel, how I have looked forward to
seeing you ! "

Good evening, Philip," she replied, ina
calm, even tone of courtesy.

It would have been impossible to infuse
a more complete, dead level of indifference
into her voice, and Philip looked, as he
felt, chilled and disappointed. He gazed
at her for a moment fixedly. Her eyes
met his calm and unflinching, though the
sadness in his eyes was not reflected in
hers. Then he let her hand drop. Was
he beginning to see at last ?

Have you had a pleasant journey ? "

VOL. 111. 40

she asked; and she took up her position
on the other side of the hearth, and played
carelessly with a Japanese hand-screen she
took from the chimney piece.

He answered her briefly. She broke
the silence that ensued by inquiring after
Mrs. Welford and her daughters, and then,
to her relief, Margaret came in, and put an
end to their tete-astute.

But in spite of the uncertain relation between
Angela and Philip, the three friends
spent a pleasant time in the country.
One evening they were particularly gay.
Philip had been for a long walk, and when
lie came in, Angela threw aside a book
from which she had been reading aloud.

Please go on," said Philip ; "I would
not disturb you for the world."

"' It does not matter ; it was only a
novel, though a very clever one."

What is the name ? "

She told him, repeating, "It is very
clever."

I have never even heard of it," remarked
Mr. Welford, with some diffidence.


I dare say not. I know very few
people who have ; it is above the average
British public."

How is it you and Margaret are so
fond of it ? " inquired Philip, blandly.

We are also above the average British
public."

Philip had taken up the book and been
turning over the leaves. He now paused,
saying 

Listen to this ; " and began to read out
a scene. " Certainly," he said, when he
had finished, " that is very clever. Now,
for the sake of argument, do you imagine

that scene was taken from real life or
invented by the author ? "

You are appallingly fond of argument,
Philip," said Angel, rather impatiently.
But," she went on immediately, " I
always put those clever things down as
being taken from real life, because I never
give the authors credit for having the wit
to invent them."

You are appallingly fond of depreciating
other people. Angel," said Philip, with
an unmoved face.

I speak from experience," she said,,
with sublime disregard for his little thrust.
"What!" cried Margaret. "Did you
ever write a novel ? "
I tried to," modestly.
"Tell us all about it," cried Margaret
and Philip together.

If you really care to hear about it,"

said Angel, laughing. " It happened in
this way. . When I used to live with
Uncle Anthony, I saw a great deal of a
young friend of his, Harry Oliphant.
When I came home from abroad, and told
him I was going to be a governess, he
made a great fuss, and talked a great deal
of rubbish about throwing myself away.
You shall hear later on how he did
propose that I should throw myself away.
I asked him what other career in life was
open to me, and he suggested that I
should write a novel."

'' Then you did not think of it yourself
? " inquired Margaret.

'' Oh dear, no ! I had no idea that I
was at all capable of that kind of thing,
and at first I would not hear of it; but
I yielded at length. It is odd," she said,
suddenly changing from vivacity to reflection

in a manner peculiar to herself, " that
on the few occasions when I have yielded
my judgment to other people, I have
always found it to have been a mistake."

But you began the novel ? " interrupted
Margaret again.

''I got as far as the second volume.
It was very easy at first. Harry and I
had arranged the plot together. I had
wanted to have no engagements, but he
insisted that it would not be a novel
without, and again I gave way. When
I got to the engagement, however, I could
not get on at all. I laid my difficulty
before Harry, and complained that I could
find nothing for the people to say. He
told me I must imagine what I should
do in the heroine's position. That was
absurd. I could imagine nothing of the
kind. I assure you," she said, turning

to her audience, who sat around her, convulsed
with laughter, " I spent days and
weeks over that part. I dreamed of it ;
it was a nightmare to me."

Did you not do it at all ? " asked
Philip, in tones of disappointment.

Oh yes ; I did it at last, and very
cleverly, as I thought. I showed what
I had written to Harry. He overwhelmed
me with scorn. The love scenes, Which
had been such a thorn in the flesh to me, ho
laughed and jeered at. He said that no
man and woman ever stood in such a relation
to each other as that I had described."

Why did you not tell him to write
the scenes himself? " asked Philip.

I did, of course, since he had such deep
and varied experience. I was quite willing
that he should share the glories of authorship.
He grasped at my proposal greedily,

and promised to write them. When lie
read them to me, I could hardly believe
they were not caricatures. I should have
been ashamed to own I had written them.
We compared our scenes. He sneered at
mine, and said they w-ere cold-blooded;
I laughed at his, and said they were as
sentimental as a German love-song. He
said his would save the book from ruin;
I said it should never go into print with
such chapters in it. He tried to get
possession of the manuscript ; I would not
give it up. He offered me half profits,
and a page of grateful dedication and
acknowledgment, if I would let him bring
it all out as his own, and withdraw my
right altogether. I declined to be bought.
At last, he had recourse to the meanest and
basest of conduct in his anxiety to get
possession of the work."

'what did lie do?" demanded Philip,
with increased interest.

He asked me to marry him."
There was a pause, the only sound being
Margaret's uncontrollable laughter.

Of course," went on Miss Darling, " I
knew he did not want me, but the manuscript,
and I refused him decidedly."

You are incorrigible," said Margaret,
wiping her eyes ; while Philip inquired
somewhat gloomily 

What was the end of it all ? "
He took his scene and I took my manuscript,
and we each went our way."
What became of the happy man ? "
"I heard some time ago that he is
married to a girl I used to know. We
were enemies. I feel that if I had wanted
any revenge, I got it without much trouble
to myself."

There was a long pause. Angel spoke
first.

Last week I spent an evening at Mrs.
Butter worth's. You know my Mrs. Butterworth
; she is a native of Lancashire. Her
husband used to be the village blacksmith''

"Exactly," said Philip. "What kind
of an affair was it ? "

A dinner-party," with a wry face.
It was given in honour of their son's
safe return to England after long and
varied wanderings in other lands. The
guests were not asked to meet one another,
but the son, whose name I understood
from his mother to be Napoleon."

Angel, you are romancing," said Margaret,
severely.

On the contrary, I am keeping strictly
to facts. Mrs. Butterworth asked me how
I liked the name."

Now, to what polite fiction did you
lend yourself?" inquired Philip.

I repeated the name, ' Napoleon Butterworth,'
and I said I thought it had a fine
sound, and was thoroughly cosmopolitan inspirit."


What did she say to that ? "

She looked rather bewildered, but took
it very quietly, and said she quite agreed
with me."

What was he like ? " asked Margaret.

In appearance he was something
between an eagle and a clothes' peg ; in
manners of the horse, horsey. His mother
was arrayed, as usual, in barbaric splendour.
There were a great many people. I
suppose she thought she would astonish
the natives."

Who took you in to dinner ? "

"My enemy, Mr. Poole. He overwhelmed

me with politics and magazine
articles. When he had finished, he had
the audacity to turn round to me and say,
Now, I am sure Miss Darling agrees with
me.' ' Indeed,' I said, ' I do no such
thing.' "

Ah," said Margaret, laughing, " you
are not so indifferent as you would have
us believe. You are putting it on."

'* It was not the politics I disagreed
with, but the man. A fig for his politics !
I did not listen sufficiently to know what
they were."

When she had finished Philip rose to
go, and, as it was already late, Margaret
and Angel went into the house.

CHAPTER Till.

*' For lie who deemed nought worth so much of
strife
As to say ' No ' for ever, . . . found
How the chain galled whereto she now was
bound."

When Angel's summer holidays came she
elected to spend them at home, and Margaret
went with her. Philip was to follow
them a week or two later.

It was the afternoon on which Philip
was expected, and some three-quarters of
an hour before his train was due Margaret
was wandering about the house and
garden, seeking Angel. She found herat
length in a shady corner, lazily enjoying

a book. She started as Margaret
approached her.

Come into the shade," seizing Margaret's
hand. '' Why do yon go wandering
about in the sun like this ? "

I wanted you."

"Why did you not send Syb ? You
know she would have been delighted todo
anything for you, and it is too hot for
any one to take exercise to-day."

Poor Syb ! " laughing and sitting
down.

'' Let me fan you," said Angela, suiting
the action to the word. "It is much
too hot to do anything for one's self,
but one may make an effort for somebody
else. '

I am glad to hear you say so. I came
here with the object of persuading you to
make such an effort."

"I do not promise if it is not for you,"
cautiously.

Have you forgotten Philip comes this
afternoon ? "

Angel's fan fell into her lap. Suddenly
she looked bored to death.

So he does," she said slowly, half to
herself. '' I had completely forgotten it,
and I believe every one else has forgotten
it too. I don't see how he can come if his
room is not ready for him."

Margaret laughed. " Mrs. Darling and
Syb have not forgotten, I assure you ; they
are looking forward to seeing him very
much."

'' I am not. What time is he coming ? "

"His train is due at 5.30."

What an awkward time ! " murmured
Angel ; and then there was silence.

The silence lasted so long that at last
Margaret asked, with some hesitation 

Shall you not go and meet him
Angel?"

Angel's fan paused in its slow, even
strokes, and she said quickly 

"It is not necessary. I had never
thought of it. No, I can't go."

But, Angel "

I can't, indeed, Margaret ; and, now
that it comes to the point, I feel as though
I could not bear to have him in the house""

You cannot prevent that now."

Of course not ; but I cannot bear the
idea of going all the way to the station to
meet him. He would be so pleased. It
would make him think I cared for him so
much that I could not wait to see him
until he got to the house. I would not
for the world have him think that."

Margaret laughed. *' You must really
get rid of such fancies."

I suppose they are fancies, though they
seem quite serious to me. At any rate, I
am not going to meet Philip."

Then I will go."

What ! " cried Angel, absolutely flushed
with indignation. '' Do you mean that
that man cannot come up here alone, but
that some one must go and fetch him ;
and that if I won't go you will ? Sooner
than that I will go three times the distance.
Take my place  it is delightfully cool  and
I will go and get ready."

Stop ! " cried Margaret, catching the
girl's dress as she was hurrying away ;
I want to go. Hear reason," she continued,
as Angel waved her hand as who
would say, " Tell that to the marines."
I only came out here to ask you," she
went on. "I want to go very much ; I
want to see Philip."

VOL. III. 41

I can hardly credit such extraordinary
statements ; but I will not be so rude as to
refuse to believe you. Go, by all means,
and I wish you a pleasant walk."

And, having uttered her protest, she
returned to her book, and Margaret went
her way.

She reached the station a few minutes
before the train was due, and walked up
and down the platform, revolving in her
mind what she should say to Philip about
Angel.

The train steamed into the station, and
she found herself standing by Philip's side,
holding his hand in her own.

Where is Angel ? " looking restlessly
round.

'' She is not here ; I came instead."

You came instead ! I think she might
have taken the trouble to come and meet

me, instead of sending you out on such an
afternoon as this'

He spoke with impatience, yet was loyal
to Margaret in spite of his anger.

It was my doing," she answered, hastily.
*' I made Angel let me come alone. They
were all anxious to see you, but I wanted
to talk to you, so I persuaded them to
stay at home."

That alters the case a little," he said,
somewhat mollified. * What does this
fellow want ? "

'your ticket. And, Philip, we shall
have to walk. Shall you mind? It is
nearly two miles."

Not at all. I want to stretch myself.
It is a journey from the Highlands down
here."

They walked the length of the village
street and some distance along the highroad

without speaking, but they were not
long silent, for they had many things to
say. It was not until they were nearly insight
of Bleak Meadows that they spoke
of Miss Darling.

How is Angel ? All this time we have
not mentioned her."

' She is very well."

"I hope she had not forgotten I was
coming."

*' You will see that everything has been
prepared for your comfort and convenience,"
she replied, demurely.

"I am going to ask her to fix our
wedding-day while I am here," he said,
serenely''

Do not do anything precipitate, Philip."

"I do not think I am precipitate; we
have been engaged almost a year."

"Yes; but "

But what ? "

"' Angel has always seen you alone.
You are going to be together for the first
time among her friends, and you know
how she dislikes people to think she cares
for any one."

Philip frowned. Margaret had rather
blundered.

If Angel is going to marry me, it
is all nonsense disliking people to think
she cares for me. Did you think it ought
to be kept a secret ? "

How could that be when you are here ?
I meant that I did not know you had
settled anything definite."

We have not ; it is just what I want."

But," said poor Margaret, desperately,
shave you settled that you are going to
be married ? I thought that was an open
question yet."

Philip's face darkened again.
 'rit was arranged so at first ; but, as
Angel has let things go on for so long,
I can only suppose she looks upon our
engagement as a settled one. If she has
not made up her mind by now, she will
never make it up at all, unless I am to
understand she is such a coquette "

Philip ! " and Margaret stood still, her
face crimson. " You do not know what
you are saying," she Went on, as she
continued to walk by his side. "If
Angel heard you, she would never marry
you."

But if it be true."

"It is not true. What Angel has done
she has done honestly ; and what she has
left undone has been because we cannot
achieve the impossible. You cannot say
she has misled you ; you knew, or might

have known, how she felt from the first.
She is not a coquette."

"I looked upon her invitation to come
here as a ratification of our engagement."

You should have told her that."

As they now entered the garden of
Bleak Meadows, she could say no more.

The garden was deserted ; no one was
to be seen, and Margaret, in her present
frame of mind, felt nervous and uneasy at
the circumstance. Presently, however, she
saw the flutter of Syb's dress in the
distance, and she called the child to her.

Syb came rather shyly. She had heard
much about Philip (chiefly in answer to
her own questions to Margaret), and she
had chosen to imagine that he was rather
a formidable person. His pleasant smile
and cordial handshake restored her confidence,
and in answer to Margaret's

inquiries, she replied that she had not
seen her sister for a long time, but would
go and seek her.

She went away, and in the meanwhile
Mrs. Darling and Laura appeared, and
covered Angel's absence.

Presently Sybil returned, and whispered
to Margaret 

I have looked everywhere, and called
for her, but I cannot find her."

Margaret bit her lip in vexation. Where
could she be ? Surely she had not waited
till within five minutes of their coming,
and then set out for a long walk. Margaret
knew her to be capable of it.

They went into the house, and still she
came not. In a few minutes they where
assembled round the tea-table, but Angel's
place was empty. Margaret began to feel
unhappy, and was much relieved when

about five minutes after they had sat down,
the door opened, and Angel came in.

She walked straight forward, with " How
do you do, Philip ? " and, after this
tranquil greeting, took her place, . and
asked her mother for a cup of tea.

How is it you are so early ? " she
asked, leaning her elbows on the table,
and looking with composed, lovely eyes at
Philip. ' I did not expect you for fully
half an hour."

"My dear," said her mother, reproachfully,
" the train was due at 5.30."

' Of course ; but we generally allow half
an hour for casualties on this line. Was
the train punctual ? "

To the minute," replied Philip, earnestly.


Really ? It must have been one of
yesterday's trains."

The general laughter which greeted her
words rather dissipated the feeling of constraint
that had prevailed.

After tea they went into the garden.
Mrs. Darling and Philip paced side by
side in one of the sequestered paths which
abounded in the extensive garden surrounding
Bleak Meadows ; Angel and Margaret
as usual, walked together.

*' I am so glad to see you," Mrs. Darling
was saying. " It has been such an
immense relief to me to know that Angel
has at last engaged herself to a man
worthy of her in every way. She has been
an immense responsibility to me," went on
the poor lady, sighing ; " and I am very
glad to be able to give her up to some one
better able to guide her than I am."

Has Angel given you so much trouble The
asked, with some curiosity.

"She is so wild. She has never yet
done anything very imprudent, except
when she estranged her uncle through her
folly ; but I live in constant fear. I have
no control over her whatever. She wants
a man's hand. I think she will improve
when she gets married and settled down,"
finished Mrs. Darling, wistfully.

She felt she ought to let Philip know
whom he was going to marry, and yet she
was afraid she should estrange him if she
revealed too much, or represented AngeFs
character as hopelessly depraved.

I quite agree with you," said Philip ;
"and I do not like to think of Angel
causing you such anxiety."

Oh ! but she is good and generous,"
said her mother, quickly. " I dare say you
have never found it out  and you must
not let her know I have told you; she

would be so angry  but she helps me a
great deal. She has a thoroughly generous
spirit ; and if she had five times as much
as she has, she would help me in proportion.
I must not give you a bad impression
of our Angel."

Philip restrained a smile at Mrs. Darling's
rambling style of conversation. He
looked across the lawn to where Angel and
Margaret were walking together, and his
dark eyes kindled as he answered 

'' You need not be afraid, Mrs. Darling ;
I know her worth."

Mrs. Darling heaved a quick, light sigh
of relief; for Philip was a very desirable
son-in-law, and not one to be lightly lost.

They turned to go into the house, calling
to th others to come in too. Could they
but have heard the conclusion of the conversation
between Margaret and Angela !

' Are you not glad now that he has
come ? " asked Margaret. " Do you not
like being engaged any better ? "

No," replied Angela ; ' it is weary
work."

CHAPTER IX.

' Late grows the year,'
She said, * and winter cometh, with its fear
And dreams of dying hopes. Ah me, I change,
And my heart hardens ! Will he think me strange
When he beholds this face of mine at last ?
Or shall our love make nought of long days past ;
Burn up the sights that we apart have seen,
And make them all as though they had not been?' "

Margaret was not allowed to enjoy a long-holiday.
Philip had not been many days
at Bleak Meadows before she received a
letter which made it necessary for her to
begin working again at once. The letter
was from Mr. Birkett, a man she had
never seen, but of whom she had often
heard as a lover of carvings of all kinds.

He wrote from his house in Scotland. An
antique chair of carved oak had met with
an accident. Mr. Birkett wished it to be
repaired if that were possible, or to have a
new chair carved on the exact model of the
old one. Would Miss Terry come over at
her earliest convenience, and give him her
opinion on the matter ?

It is rather the style of thing one sends
to the carpenter when the kitchen table
is broken," said Angel, as she folded up
the note. " Shall you go ? "

Yes," answered Margaret, smiling at
her friend's words. " It is not meant in
that way, and I have never seen Scotland."

It will be a change," suggested Angel.
"-' If I were you, I should go and stay
as long as you can find the least excuse
for doing. That is, always supposing
your host is at all bearable."

"I think I had better go tomorrow,"
said Margaret, after a pause.

What a hurry you are in to leave
us ! " said Angel, half reproachfully. " You
seize the first excuse that presents itself.
What shall we do without you, I wonder ?
Philip and I have so far kept the peace ;
but when you are gone, I expect we shall
fall out and chide and fight,' quite like
proper lovers."

There was a sneer in her voice, but
Margaret was silent. Experience had
taught her that it was useless to oppose
any remonstrance to Angel's humours.

On the following day Margaret went
away. She dared not speak in Philip's
favour before going, but she felt uneasy,
and wished she was not leaving her friends
just at this time. She had a foreboding
that when Philip asked the question which

he had announced his intention of asking,
Angela would be taken by surprise, and
would possibly refuse to marry him at all.
She knew, too, that at such a crisis Mrs.
Darling's influence over her daughter
would amount to nothing at all. She herself
was the only one with any power of
smoothing matters down.

She had a long and troublesome journey
from Bleak Moor, not reaching her destination
till late in the evening. She had
found a servant and a carriage waiting for
her, and had a long drive through country
which was no doubt picturesque in daylight
and when it was not pouring with
rain.

Her host was a pleasant man enough ;
rather a precise old bachelor, but a
thorough gentleman when he found with
whom he had to deal. He seemed rather

VOL. III. 42

abashed at the sight of Miss Terry. He
had perhaps imagined her the reverse of
young and beautiful.

Margaret remained in Scotland a fortnight,
and, as Mr. Birkett led an exceedingly
quiet life, and had his own ideas on
the length of time a lady should be allowed
to work during the day  which ideas he
insisted upon putting into practice  Margaret
had a great deal of time for thinking.
She hardly thought about herself now.
Every one had given up all hope of the
safe return of the exploring party, and
she was schooling herself to do the same.
Sometimes she spoke about her husband
to Angel, for she never felt uncertain how
Angela would hear her. She was always
gentle and sympathetic, as Margaret had
never supposed it in her nature to be. Of
her child she never spoke. Its death had

been too hard a blow for ber ; that wound
had never been healed. She thought of
little Eustace sometimes when she saw
other mothers with their children round
them, or when she heard of some one
stricken with grief at the death of some
little one ; but though at such times her
sympathy was of the tenderest and deepest,
she never said very much. The people who
chiefly occupied her thoughts now were
Philip and Angela. She knew what was
impending when she left Bleak Meadows,
and though she had not dared to speak to
Miss Darling on the subject, she longed
with an intense longing that when Philip
spoke she would listen to him. She wrote
to Angela often, but hardly got satisfactory
replies. Angel was a bad correspondent,
and when she did write was apt to fill
her letter with any one but herself. She

spoke of Philip, certainly, but in a tone
which made Margaret fear for the result
of his words when he should speak.

At the end of the fortnight Margaret

was ready to return to London. She did

1/

not .purpose going again to Bleak Meadows.
During the last few days of her sojourn in
Scotland she had been haunted by a feeling
which she knew would only grow worse
if she went into the country. She determined
to go to her rooms in London, and
there await what should come to her.

She felt some regret at parting from
Mr. Birkett. They had become great
friends during the time she spent in his
house. She had earned his undying
gratitude by repairing his chair in a
masterly manner ; and he, on his side, had
been uniformly kind and considerate to
herself. She had only one fault to find

with his establishment : he had an eccentric
horror of newspapers, and never allowed
one to penetrate within his house. During
the time she was in Scotland Margaret was
perfectly ignorant of what was going on
in the outside world.

It was a dull autumnal day when Margaret
left Scotland ; no rain fell, but the
leaden grey sky was without a streak of
sunlight, and the atmosphere was damp
and heavy. Margaret's thoughts, as she
sat in the express which bore her swiftly
to London, were sad enough : the gloom
of the day seemed to have got into her
soul, and to colour all her thoughts. She
was sorry to leave Scotland, and yet she
felt feverishly impatient to reach London.
She had given her servant orders, when
she left home, that no newspapers were
to be destroyed in her absence. Surely,

during her absence there was a chance of
some news of the explorers having been
heard. Yet how often had she not left
home and returned with the same thought,
and always in vain ? Now winter was
coming on again, and still Oswald had
not come back. She had begun to lose
hope, and to ask herself whether it was
likely he ever would come back, and if he
did come, she thought wearily, was it possible
that they could meet as though they
had never parted ? She knew how changed
she herself was since the day she had
married Oswald ; and he ? It was hardly
to be expected that, after all those years
of adventure, he should return to her the
same bold, careless man who had left her
long ago. She was alone in the railway
carriage, and she leaned her head back
against the cushions, and, closing her eyes.

gave the reins to her imagination. Her
thoughts must have been varied, for a
smile, half sad, half tender, parted her lips
imtil she thought of her child, and then
she ceased to smile at all. At last she
roused herself, and steadily repulsing her
sadness, took up the novel with which Mr.
Birkett had supplied her, and in reading
it  for it was both clever and amusing 
forgot for a time her heart weariness.

London at last, and a long, noisy drive
to her rooms, through the roar and the
dirt and the crowd of the London streets.

It was dark when Margaret reached her
rooms, and she felt very tired as she went
upstairs and threw herself into a chair.

"Please, 'm, what would you like to
eat ? " inquired the maid, who had followed
her into the room.

' Whatever you have," said Margaret

listlessly, feeling faint after her Long
journey, and yet too tired to eat.

* I have got a nice bit of dinner ready,
'm. I thought you'd like that better than
tea'"

' Very well. Bring it in''

The maid went away, and presently
returned to lay the cloth. Margaret was
still sitting in her low rocking-chair ; she
had neither strength nor wish to move.

' Are the newspapers all there ? " she
asked, turning her head.

The girl laid them on the table by her
mistress's side. Margaret turned them
over, but was too tired to look at them.

 It will do after dinner'' she said,
wearily. '' Have any people been here ? "
she went on, after a pause.

' Yes, 'm ; here are their cards."

* Are these all ? " holding the two or

three bits of pasteboard limply between her
fingers.

Yes, m ; leastways, all who left cards.
A gentleman called this morning, and
seemed very much put out when I said
you were not at home. I told him you
were coming to-night, and he said he
would call again at nine o'clock."

Nine o'clock ! " echoed Margaret. '' Was
it Mr. Welford ? "

No, 'm. I don't know who he was,
and he did not leave his name. He said
he had no card with him, and I was to
give you this." As she spoke the girl
went forward to the mantelpiece, and took
from it a small packet, which she gave
to Margaret.

Margaret took the packet without speaking,
neither did she open it at once. She
was too tired to feel anv curiosity about

either it or the man who had brought it
and who was, with great want of consideration,
seeing she had just returned
from a long journey, going to call again
at nine o'clock. The maid, having laid the
table, had left the room, and Margaret sat
still in her chair, playing with the little
packet, and dropping it idly from one hand
to the other. It bore no name, and if she
thought about it at all it was that it must
be from Philip.

By-and-by the servant returned, and
Margaret, seeing that her dinner was
going to be served at once, rose, and
gathering together her gloves and wraps,
went into her bedroom to remove the
stains of travel. Putting the things upon
her dressing-table, she saw she had
brought the packet with her. The passage
from one room to the other had helped

her in some degree to shake off her
fatigue, and with a slight feeling of
curiosity she stood and removed the paper
from the parcel she held in her hand.
The paper put on one side, she found in
her hand a small box, which she opened
in its turn, and in which lay a ring set
with diamonds, which flashed as the light
fell on them. She made a motion to lift
the ring from the box ; then she paused,
the blood rushed in a crimson torrent to
her cheeks, and she uttered one word 

Oswald ! "

She hardly spoke above a whisper, and
as she did so the colour faded from her
face, leaving it white as before. She stood
staring down at the ring lying in her
hand, while a shiver passed through her,
and she began to tremble from head to
foot. The rinof before her was one she

had given Oswald when they were married,
and she had charged him never to loose it
from his finger till he came home again.
For years the ring had been swallowed up
in the deserts of Africa, now it lay in the
palm of her hand.

'' What did it mean ? " she asked herself,
when she had grown calmer. Oswald was
alive and safe, near her; he had been at
her door ; the ring she now held in her
hand, he had but now worn on his finger.
She pressed it to her lips, but she did not
put it on her finger  Oswald must do that.
He was coming again at nine o'clock. She
glanced at her watch ; it marked eight.
There was an hour before he would come,
how should she pass the time ? She threw
off her travelling things, and changed her
dress. With an instinctive desire to make
herself look as young and fresh as possible,

she dressed herself in white, and put into
her hair a delicate flower, which she
selected from those Mr. Birkett had made
her bring from Scotland.

All this time she felt stunned, hardly
conscious of what she was doing. Her
only distinct feeling was one of disappointment
that she had been away when Oswald
came. She went to her sitting-room.
Dinner was served, but she could eat
nothing. A quarter of an hour after she
had left her room the table was cleared,
and she was sitting alone, a cup of untasted
coffee beside her.

How slowly the time went ! She took
up a book, but, after having read the same
paragraph six times over, without understanding
a word of it, she closed the book
and put it away. She tried to do some
carving, but her hands trembled so she

could not guide the tools, and she was
forced to lay them aside. Her cheeks
burned, but when she went to the glass
and looked at herself, she saw they were
as white as Angel's. The thought of
Angel opened out a new field of speculation.
What would Angel say when she
heard of Oswald's return ? Would she be
as sympathizing in her friend's joy as she
had been in her sorrow ? She rejected the
thought as unworthy. Turning from the
mirror, she began to pace the room from
end to end. She had not enough space,
so opened the door leading into her workroom,
then that which opened into her
bedroom, and walked from end to end of
the three rooms. She recollected that she
had done the same thing before Oswald
came to say " good-bye," and she compared
the two occasions. Nevertheless, her

thoughts this evening were not wholly
joyous ; the thought of her child would
not be altogether shut out.

At last she ceased her restless walk.
She shut the doors again, and reseated
herself in her sitting-room. The clock on
the mantelpiece struck the quarter to nine.
She waited. Nine rang out. Her suspense
grew horrible. She sat leaning forward,
with parted lips and bated breath,
listening to every footfall on the pavement
outside, to every cab that rattled past the
house. Five minutes passed, and then a
cab dashed up the square and stopped in
front of her house. There was a pause,
then a quick pull at the bell. Margaret
could no longer sit still ; she rose and
stood in front of the fireplace, facing the
door, her ears strained to catch the
slightest sound. She heard some one

enter the house. A man's step ascended
the stairs. It came nearer ; she recognized
the quick, firm tread of her husband. A
mist rose before her eyes, but she took a
step forward as the servant opened the
door and announced 

Mr. Saxenholme."

All was dim before Margaret's eyes. Ina
mist she saw a tall, erect figure, a face
so freed, und doch so wool bekannt."
She went forward, feeling mechanically
that this man was her husband, for whom
she had waited so long. Out of the mist
came a voice which she had " heard long-since
and lost erewhile," and which said 

My wife ! "

Oswald ! " she answered.

CHAPTER X.

* With men thou canst not live :
Their thoughts, their* ways, their wishes are not

thine.
And, being lonely, thoti art miserable ;

*****
Thou canst not live with men, nor with thyself."

It was about three weeks after Margaret
had gone to Scotland, Angela, coming
down to breakfast one morning, found on
her plate a letter. She took it up, saying
gaily

A letter from Margaret at last !

She opened and read the letter in silence.
When she had finished, she was a shade
paler than usual. Her family, however,
VOL. III. 43

were so little accustomed to associate
Angel with any emotion except amusement,
that it did not occur to them to
connect her pallor with the receipt of
Margaret's letter.

"Where is Philip?" she inquired suddenly,
looking up, and for the first time
noticing Mr. Welford's absence.

He has gone out," replied Sybil. " He
came down, and had a letter from Margaret ;
he went out directly after he had read it."

There was silence, which was at last
broken by Angel, saying 

Are wee not to have any coffee this
morning, mother ? "

''I thought we would wait for Philip,
my dear."

I cannot," replied her daughter, and
her voice was hard and cold. " I have had
a letter from Margaret, too, and I shall

also need to go out, but I want some coffee
first."

Mrs. Darling served the coffee in silence ;
and as soon as Angel had emptied her cup,
she rose and left the room without speaking.
Mrs. Darling looked alarmed ; Laura
shrugged her shoulders.

Having left the dining-room, Angela
did not go out, but upstairs to her own
room. There she opened Margaret's letter
again, and, spreading it on a table before
her, began to study it afresh.

Looking over her shoulder, we may read
the letter too, and see what reason it gave
for her unusual emotion.

Dear Angel," it began, " if you have
thought about me at all during the past
week, you will have wondered why you
did not hear from me sooner. You knew
the day I was to leave Scotland, and I had

promised myself the pleasure of writing
yon a long letter on the evening of my
return, but I was prevented. You will
hardly believe me when I say that Oswald
has come back. I can hardly believe it
yet, though he has been here for a week.
I cannot write about it, but will go on at
once to what is of almost equal importance
to me.

"Oswald cannot naake up his mind to
settle in England. I suppose the wandering
life he has been leading for the last few
years partly accounts for the feeling ; but, in
addition to that, there are reasons which
you will understand. The end of it all is,
that, after talking things over, we have
decided to go out to New Zealand. Oswald
has been most kind and considerate; he
would not force me in any way, but left the
decision in my hands. Of course I agreed

to his proposal. We shall be sailing in
about a month.

*' Even though my husband has come
back to me, I am not altogether happy.
There is one cause for sadness which can
never be effaced ; but my great sorrow
now is that we must be parted. I have
talked of you to Oswald until he says you
seem an old friend, and we both wish you
were going with us ; but I say you cannot
both marry Philip and come with us to
New Zealand.

*' I am writing to Philip by this post,
to tell him all about Oswald."

Further than this Angela did not read ;
the closing lines of affection were disregarded.
Her face, as she read the first
part of the letter, had grown sadder and
ever sadder. A peculiar smile had parted
her lips when she came to the lines in

which Margaret said Oswald had left the
decision in her hands ; but the smile faded
away, and left her face sad beyond words
to express. How far away Margaret was
going ! Thousands of miles of tumbling sea
impassable in less than many weeks, would
lie between them. Her heart failed her at
the thought.

If Margaret goes out there," she
thought, "I shall never see her again.
I cannot bear to lose her. I would
follow her all over the world ; why not
there ? "

She lifted her head, and her eyes fell
again upon Margaret's letter spread open
before her. These were the words which
first caught her eyes 

We both wish you were coming with
us; but I say you cannot both marry
Philip and come with us to New Zealand."

She paused when she had read the words.

Then it has come to that," she said,
half aloud. " I must choose between
marrying Philip and going with Margaret ;
one must give way."

She went to the window and leaned out,
thinking. Before long she had made up
her mind.

I will go with Margaret," she said,
putting the letter back in its envelope.

She went downstairs. In the diningroom,
Philip was telling Mrs. Darling and
her daughters the news about Margaret.
They expressed great surprise, and Philip
himself seemed no less astonished ; in fact,
it was the overwhelming surprise and
almost shock of the intelligence that had
driven him out before breakfast.

"It seems you had a letter, too," he
said, turning to Angel, as she entered the

room. " I suppose she has told you all
about it."

She has told me that Mr. Saxenholme
has returned," replied Angel, quietly.
As for her marriage, I have known all
about it for a long time ; she told me
more than a year ago."

She spoke rather shortly, being in no
mood to discuss the wisdom or folly of
Margaret's marriage. Her voice and
manner seemed to chill her hearers. Mrs.
Darling said no more; but Philip was
bolder, and went on 

What do you think of this idea of
going to New Zealand ? "

'' I think it is the best thing they could
possibly do," answered his betrothed, composedly.


The others looked at her in surprise.
How quietly she spoke, as though the

thought of parting from Margaret had no
pain for her! Laura even commented
upon her sister's manner, saying 

You seem to part with your friends as
easily as you make them."

"It is not every one who has a friend to
part from," was Angel's answer, spoken in
her usual light tones.

What do you mean ? " cried Laura,
angry at once. " If you wish to insinuate
that I have no friends, I assure you you
are quite mistaken."

'' I meant to insinuate nothing," slightly
shrugging her shoulders as she spoke.

'sis that really all you have to say
about Margaret?" asked Philip, as Laura
moved away.

"We cannot talk about it now," she
replied ; "I will tell you what I think
later on."

It was later in the day, and the afternoon
was drawing to a close, though it
was still intensely hot. Every door and
window at Bleak Meadows was set wide
open, to catch any chance breath of air
that might wander past. The sky was
still blue, though on the horizon lurid 
sullen clouds were gathering, which
threatened to cover before long the whole
expanse of heaven.

'ewe shall have a thunderstorm," said
Angel, turning from the low window-seat,
where she reclined, to the interior of the
room, where Philip was dimly visible
through the deepening gloom, seated at
the table, writing letters.

Ah ! yes, I dare say," he answered,,
abstractedly, being absorbed in his correspondence.


They were alone. Philip was going to

London on the following day, and the
rest of the family had deemed it fitting
that Philip and Angel should spend this
afternoon together. Some perverse spirit,
however, seemed to have entered Miss
Darling, impelling her to tease Philip;
for, disregarding the pile of letters at his
side, she said 

'you will be in London this time tomorrow."


Yes," he answered, again not looking
up.

"Do you look forward to seeing your
mother again ? I suppose she will expect
some message from me ? "

There was such a distinct note of interrogation
in her voice that Philip felt
compelled to answer. He rose, and, closing
the blotting-book, came and stood near
her.

Yes ; and, by-the-by, Angel, I want
to speak to you on a matter of importance."


Surely," she thought, "he has not
been evolving fresh theories from his inner
consciousness ! If he has, I shall refer
him to Margaret."

Well ? " she answered aloud.

I want you to fix the day of our
marriage."

She looked a little surprised. " Oh ! "

"Well," a little irritably, "is that all
you have got to say about it ? "

I did not know it had been decided
that we are to be married at all."

An unconquerable anger took possession
of him. He would bear with her indifference
no longer ; he would bring her to
the point.

"I have looked upon it as a settled
thing for some time."

On what authority ? "

''I did not suppose you would have
asked me to come here, if you had not
meant to marry me."

She said nothing. She was recalling
all the arguments she had used against
his being asked, and thinking how foolish
she had been to allow herself to be overruled
by her mother and sisters.

If you had told me that before," she
said at last, '' you never would have been
asked."

She had risen from her seat, and stood
facing him. In his eyes was the fire of
a great anger ; in hers, only surprise and
a little contempt.

'' What do you mean ? " he cried, his
heart throbbing with fear and love.

She did not answer at once, and in his
excitement he could not brook delay, but
repeated his question.

What do you mean ? "

Speak civilly," she answered, carelessly,
though her anger was beginning
to rise at the tone he had taken. " I shall
answer no questions put to me in that
tone."

He seized her hands passionately.

I believe you are afraid to answer."

I afraid ? Let go my hands."

"Yes, afraid. You have been playing
with me all this time ; you never meant to
marry me."

Do you wish to insult me ? Let me
go."

Not until you have renewed your
promise."

I gave you no promise."

She made no effort to escape ; she stood
before him, pale and trembling, with indignant
pride, but passive. He was a

man and strong. Might was right ; he
would use his power as he would.

Her coolness only served to increase his
excitement. He began to be aware that
his prize was slipping from him.

'I repeat my words. You have been
playing with me to satisfy your vanity.
You are a flirt ! "

He flung the last word after her as by a
sudden accession of strength she wrenched
her hands from his grasp, and, without,
according him a word or glance, left the
room. Outside the door she paused. What
should she do ? The hot, confined house
stifled her ; she must go where she could
be free. Without looking at the darkness
outside, she snatched up her hat from the
hall table, and went out of the house. She
walked on swiftly, along the road she went,
across the bridge that spanned the river, up

a steep hill, past a farm, through some fields,
until she reached the broad, open road that
led upwards to the moors.

She walked fast, not noticing the gathering
darkness. Philip had complained of
her coldness ; he would hardly have rejoiced
if he had seen her now. Her anger blinded
her to all outward things, and as she went
she repeated under her breath 

Flirt ! he called me a flirt ! Does he
suppose I would marry him after that?
Not if he waited for me twenty years. I
would not marry him now, even if Margaret
were not going away."

By this time she had reached the heather.
She turned aside from the road, and, after
walking some little distance, sank upon the
ground and buried her face in the fragrant
purple bloom, for she still hardly knew
what she was doing.

Angel's anger, however, was always
short-lived, and she had not been lying on
the heather for more than a quarter of an
hour before she sat up, and, drawing a long
sigh, pushed her hat back and looked
around her. A change had taken place
since she left her home. The thundercloud
had pealed forth their volleys of sound, and
shot out their lightnings ; and, though she,
in her anger, had been unaware of it, the
rain was pouring down upon her. She did
not heed it ; in her plain, waterproof hat
and dress she could defy the weather ; and
she rose, after a moment spent in contemplation
of the scene around her, and, turning
her face in the direction opposite to that
in which her home lay, walked steadily on.
Ere long she reached the goal of her
pilgrimage. On the top of the moors lay a
large reservoir, bounded on two sides by a

VOL. III. 44

low stone wall. On this wall, in spite of
the rain, Angel sat down, and set herself
to think out her position.

I will never marry Philip now," she
thought. " I should be foolish indeed to
voluntarily put myself in the power of a
man who can stoop to insult me openly.
He has shown me this afternoon what he
really is ; if I were to give him power over
me, he would use it. Every time I ran
counter to his will, he would employ force
to conquer me ; and how should I bear that,
I wonder ? " with a queer little smile. " I
am glad, too. I would rather live alone
in the greatest poverty than marry him.
Marry ! what should I marry for ? What
could a husband give me that I have not
got already? I might have known that
I could never do it ; I was a fool ever to
imagine any one could make me as happy

as I have made myself. I suppose I am
selfish. I am best alone ; I will be alone
all my life. Yet how is it that any one
can do, without apparently giving the
matter a second thought, what I have tried
my utmost to do, and failed in? People
seems to fall in love and marry on the
strength of very little, and I have given
up nearly a year of my life to trying to do
what every one else seem to find so easy,
and at the end of the time I hate the
thought of it more than I did at first.
Margaret has done it ; every one does it,
only I can't. I am selfish, and Philip is
selfish ; what a mess we should have made
of our lives if we were to get married."
Here her reflections wandered off to something
else, and she sat gazing out over the
wide expanse of water before her. There
was a dreary look in her blue eyes as she

sat thinking ; and a traveller, driving over
the hills in his dog-cart, and bending his
head before the driving rain, stared hard at
the solitary woman's figure seated at the
water's edge, heedless of the rain, and at
the cold, set face turned towards the barren
prospect which he was leaving behind.

But though there was a look of dearness
in her eyes, Angel was not feeling sad ; she
was only feeling her loneliness, though she
neither rebelled at nor wept over it. At
such moments as these she could see more
clearly the difference between herself and
the people she associated with, but it never
occurred to her to wish herself other than
she was.

She remained in her present position,
listening in a vague, dreamy way to the lap
of the water at her feet, and thinking who
can tell what strange, uncanny thoughts ?

and when she rose at last to go home, the
last glimmer of light had almost faded from
the sky.

She drew a deep breath as she turned
round and began her homeward walk. She
felt free now, as she threw back her head,
and let the damp rain-laden west wind
blow in her face, and she rejoiced in the
thought of her freedom.

She walked slowly, though her road was
lonely and it was dark. She had no wish
to get home  she was very happy as she
was  and nine o'clock had struck sometime
before she entered the hall at Bleak
Meadows.

Angel could hear that her mother and
-sisters were in the dining-room, and thither
she went at once. The lamp was lit, and
the light dazzled her, but she could see
that a look of relief came into her mother's

face ; and then she was assailed by a shower
of questions, to which she made no answer,,
until Mrs. Darling said 

My dear, tell us where you have been.
We have been so anxious about you."

I have been on the moors."

But during the storm ? "

I was on the moors."

Madness ! " cried Philip ; and Mrs.
Darling rose, and, going to Angel, felt her
dress, saying 

You are wet through ! My dear child,
why did you not take shelter from the
rain ? "

I was sitting on the heather. I was
very comfortable."

But you have not been there all this
time ? "

No ; I went up to the top, and watched
the storm from there."

Laura shrugged her shoulders, and Philip
looked terribly annoyed, while Mrs. Darling
and Syb indulged in a chorus of reproach
and expostulation, all of which signs of
disapproval Angel heeded not at all.

At least, go and change your dress'*
said her mother  " you will get your death
of cold  and I will bring you some hot
wine."

"Thank you, mother, you need not
trouble ; I want nothing. I am going upstairs
now, and shall not come down
again."

With a general " good-night " she was
gone, not having noticed Philip in any way.

CHAPTER XI.

Well lie deemed
That to an end at last this dream was dreamed."

It was a week since Oswald had returned
to England, and the day following the
thunderstorm at Bleak Moor. The rain
poured down, yet Angel, as she dressed and
looked out of the window, felt exceedingly
happy; a heavy weight might have been
lifted from her shoulders, so much more
freely did she breathe and move than she
had been able to do since Philip had been
in the house. This day she would tell him
that she could not marry him ; he would
have known the day before but for his

extraordinary behaviour. Philip had been
very wrong when he had accused her of
being afraid ; there was no appearance of
fear in her face and manner as she went
downstairs to breakfast.

Later in the morning Angel and Philip
and Sybil found themselves together in the
dining-room. Angela was sewing; Sybil
was buried in one of her favourite books of
travel ; Philip was kneeling on the hearth-rug,
busy with some piece of carpentering,
which he had undertaken at Sybil's request.

They were all silent. Although it was
pouring with rain, the air was close and
heavy, and through the open window the
ceaseless drip, drip of the rain was plainly
audible ; that and a few sounds of domestic
labour in other parts of the house were the
only sounds that broke the silence. Presently
Sybil spoke.

Why is it, Angel, that when men go
about climbing mountains they are always
tied together with ropes ? "

So that, if one falls down a precipice,
he may drag all the others after him to
destruction."

Sybil looked reproachfully at her sister,
but Angel was not attending to her. The
child's question had broken a somewhat
awkward silence. With the exception of
the few words uttered in the dining-room,
Angela had not spoken to Philip since she
had parted from him on the previous day.
She had been arranging in her mind the
best way of acquainting him with the
decision to which she had come. Before
she had got Margaret's letter, it had been
within the range of possibility that she
might have been induced to " try again."
Now that was out of the question.

Do you remember," lie began, throwing
down her work and coming close to
him, "that custom that prevailed in the
last century, of sending a man who was
engaged for a tour round the world that
he might make sure he had fixed his affections
on the right object ? "

Philip looked up in some surprise.

I know what you mean  yes."

I think it was such a good system it
ought to be revived. I suppose you could
not leave your college work and go, could
you?

Certainly not," with a certain feeling
of triumph.

I thought so, and so I propose to do it
myself. At any rate, if I do not go round
the world, I shall take a long voyage."

"What do you mean?" from Philip,,
while Syb stared.

' I have made up my mind to go to
New Zealand with Margaret."

You can't go without money," said
Syb, as PhiHp did not speak. " Where
will you get your money from ? "

I shall go with what I had saved
for my trousseau, in case I should ever
need it."

Still Philip did not speak. Syb, however,
rose, and closing her book, moved
towards the door, saying 

After that, I am sure you will quarrel,
and I shall leave you to it."

When they were alone, Philip turned
to Angel.

'' What do you mean. Angel ? "

Cannot you guess ? " a half smile in
her blue eyes.

'' Am I to understand you wish to break
off our engagement ? "

I wish for my freedom  yes."

You will not marry me ? "

"No."

"So be it ; " and his voice was perfectly
firm. " I am only sorry you did not tell
me this before," he went on, after a
pause.

He was still kneeling on the hearth rug ;
Angel was leaning against the old grey
marble mantelpiece. She looked down to
him as he spoke, saying carelessly 

You should not sneer, Philip ; it does
not suit your style of beauty."

He looked up quickly at her words, and
his eyes rested upon the slender, graceful
figure so dear to him. He rose to his feet
and stood opposite to her.

Did you ever intend to marry me,
Angel ? "

I shall not answer such questions."

Did you ever think you could love
me?"

I told you once I should never have
given you the least encouragement if I had
not thought so."

You must let me ask you one or two
questions. Did you ever succeed in loving
me even a little ? "

"No."

Yet you allowed me to hope."

I had promised to try for a year. I
would have kept my word. It might have
come at the last moment."

Are you sure it might not come even
yet, Angel ? "

Never, after last night. Besides, now
there is Margaret."

What about her ? "

She is going away so far. I cannot
bear to lose her ; " and the voice which

had been so serene and firm in speaking
of himself, now hesitated and faltered as
if it would break altogether. Philip was
astounded.

Do you mean that if you must choose
between your friend and your lover, you
push him aside ? "

** I have no lover, but if I had he would
always have to give way to Margaret."

Philip was speechless. He had read
and heard of girls who were cold of heart
and fancy free, but they had always succumbed,
in the long run, to the influence
of some man more fascinating than his
fellows. He could scarcely believe that
this girl should own but one love, and that
love for another woman.

You would give up everything for
Margaret ? "

Everything."

And nothing for me ? "

I have given you all I could. I told
you from the first I did not love you."

I know," he said, bitterly ; " I know.
You have been right from the beginning.
You had no heart to lose ; you risked
nothing. It was all one to you, whether
you were engaged to me or not."

They were both silent after this. Philip
spoke first.

Good-bye. I will leave you now."

She did not answer, and he went out
of the room, leaving her alone.

In the hall he stood still, and passed
his hand over his forehead. Everything
seemed dark around him, though as yet
he hardly realized that Angel was lost to
him.

I must see her mother ; " and with
that intent he moved on to one of the other

rooms. He had only gone a few steps
when he met Syb.

Where is your mother, Sybil ? " he
asked.

In the breakfast-room, Philip. Do you
want her ? "

"Yes. Do you think she can see me
for a few minutes ? "

Oh yes ; you will find her alone."

He went forward to the breakfast-room,
where, as Sybil had said, he found Mrs.
Darling alone.

He remained with her for half an
hour, and it was a trying half-hour for
Philip.

Mrs. Darling refused at first to credit
the tidings he brought her. Angel could
not be so mad, she said, as to break off
such an engagement. The poor lady wept
and wrung her hands when Philip pointed

VOL. III. 45

out to her that it was much better Angel
should not marry him, if she did not
sufficiently care for him.

It is not only that," she said, " but,
you know, I cannot manage Angel ; and I
had so rejoiced that when she married you
she would be under the control of someone
whom she must respect and obey."

Despite the pain at his heart, Philip was
not proof against the feeling of amusement
which stirred him as he thought of what
Angel would have said if she could have
heard her mother's words.

''I do not think you need feel any
trouble on that account, dear Mrs. Darling,"
he said, gently. " One of Angel's reasons
for wishing to be free is that Margaret
is going to New Zealand, and Angel will
not be parted from her ; she is going too."

Is that true ? "

Quite true. She will, no doubt, tell
you everything."

'' I cannot say I am glad she is going,
and yet I dare not say I am sorry. Margaret
does seem to have more influence
over her than any one else ; yet it is a long
way to go, and who knows what may
await her at the end of the journey ? "

Philip left Bleak Moor by an early train
in the afternoon. He did not see Angel
before he went. A few minutes after he
had gone to seek her mother, she left the
dining-room, and, putting on her hat, went
out, regardless of the rain, and set off for
one of the long solitary walks among the
hills of which she was so fond. When
she returned, late in the afternoon, Philip
was gone, and all the household knew
what had happened.

CHAPTER XII.

I have kept infringed my Nature's law."

The news that Angela's engagement was
at an end was conveyed to Margaret at the
same time from two sources ; she had
letters from Philip and Angel by the same
post. She read Philip's first, and the tone
of restrained bitterness in which it was
written made her heart ache. She had
hoped against hope, as she had often told
herself, that all would go smoothly with
them ; that, when Philip came to speak,
Angela would listen to him. She had
even indulged an idea that her going to

New Zealand would make Philip's suit
more easy to plead. If one of the little
group of friends was going far away
beyond recall, surely the other two would
draw more closely together. So she had
hoped, and the reverse had happened.
Having read Philip's letter, she turned
with a heart full of foreboding to Angela's.
It contained all that Philip's had done,
though written in a different spirit, and
went on 

I was very sorry for Philip, though
I could not tell him so. You know what
would have been the result if I had shown
what I felt. He would have thought I
really loved him, and that we had only
quarrelled."

She went on to tell Margaret that she
was going out with her to New Zealand,
and entered into details, which it is needless

to reproduce here. She said nothing-about
the feeing of her mother and sisters,
and Margaret felt that, unless Angel
mentioned the subject first, it would remain
untouched between them.

The abrupt termination of Angela's engagement
roused much speculation and
gossip in Bleak Moor. Some people offered
condolences ; others upbraided her severely.
Mrs. Welford belonged to the latter class.
She had been angry with Philip for proposing
to Angela ; she had been more
angry with Angela for accepting her son ;
but her anger knew no bounds when
Philip wrote to tell her she might live
in peace, for that Angela Darling would
never be Angela Welford.

Without giving herself time to think
or her anger to cool, Mrs. Welford wrote
to Miss Darling such a letter as she

flattered herself would show the yoiiug
lady her conduct in its true light, and
make her think twice before again breaking
a man's heart. There was such an
odd expression of mingled amusement and
contempt on Angel's face as she read the
effusion when she received it one morning,
that her mother asked 

From whom is your letter, Angel ? "

'' From Mrs. Welford," replied her
daughter, still absorbed in reading.

' I suppose she is very angry at what
has happened ? "

'' She is very angry, which is rather
inconsistent, considering her rage when
I accepted Philip even conditionally, and
when she might have known how it would
end."

She finished reading the letter in silence ,
and then laughed.

Bah ! " tearing the sheet of paper into
little bits, and flinging them on to the
table ; " does she suppose I would either
marry or not marry her son to please
her?"

The time wore on. Margaret and Oswald
had come to Liverpool, where they were
staying until the day came when they
were to sail. It had been arranged that
Angel was to join them there two days
before they left England ; and, as the time
for preparation was short, she was exceedingly
busy.

A kind of cloud seemed to hang over
the household at Bleak Meadows. Angel's
departure was hardly alluded to, and yet
they all thought of very little else. Mrs.
Darling, however much she might be disappointed
that Angel was not going to
marry Philip, was yet almost heartbroken

at the thought of losing her daughter.
She said little, but she wept and prayed,
and could not endure Angel to be out
of her sight. Sybil gave open expressions
to her grief; Laura seemed little affected.
It was only Angela's conduct which was
in any way remarkable. Though she had
elected to leave all her family and cast in
her lot with Margaret's, the resolve had
not been come to lightly. As she went
about the house, collecting such of her
household goods as she could not part from,
or packing up what she was going to
leave behind, her face was paler than
usual, her voice lower, her laugh less
frequent. She spent long hours alone in
her room or out of doors, doing no one
knew what. She was gentle and kind
beyond her wont. Never had Angel appeared
so desirable an inmate of her home

as during the few days before which she
was to leave it for ever.

The day came on which she was to goto
Margaret, and perhaps they were all
glad when the farewells were spoken and
the train in which she sat had steamed out
of the station, leaving behind it two hearts,
well-nigh broken with grief.

Margaret met Angel in Liverpool, and
took her to the hotel at which she and
Oswald were staying. They dined together,
and after dinner Oswald went out,
leaving his wife and Angel together.

They talked of many things before they
touched on the subject that lay nearest
to Margaret's heart. At last she said some
word which seemed to unlock AngeFs
heart, and Angela forthwith began to
speak of Philip.

I told you I was sorry for him'' she

said ; " but really, Margaret, I was more
sorry for you. I knew you had set your
heart on our getting married, and it was
more for your sake than his that I ever
tried at all."

"You must not say that," answered
Margaret, really distressed. " What is my
disappointment compared to Philip's ? "

'' If only he would have been content
to remain friends, I should have liked him
to the end of my life. I like to have men
friends, though I always told Philip I
did not ; but that was to warn him off.
They are amusing and useful, and a
change from women. But directly they
want to become lovers, I hate them. I
can't help it," she went on, looking into
Margaret's face with almost a pathetic
expression in her blue eyes. "It is not
my fault if I am different from other

people, and I do my best to show them I
do not want them. If Philip would only
have seen, we might have been such good
friends now. I have not many friends ;
I could very well have done with him."

She was sitting on the floor at Margaret's
feet, leaning against Margaret's chair, and
when she had finished speaking, there was
silence in the room. Margaret broke it
by saying slowly and hesitatingly 

I cannot help thinking. Angel, that
I am selfish. I have no right to let you
give up everything for me as you are
doing. Your mother must think me very
cruel."

'rit is better I should go," was all
Angel's reply. " I am not giving up
everything either," she went on, after a
pause. " You are my friend ; our friends
have a claim upon us."

'' But their claim is not higher than
that of our kindred. I cannot help
thinking of your mother ; it must have
cost her so much to part from you.
Did it cost you nothing to part from
her?"

The hot colour flooded Angela's pale face,
and then faded away, leaving it whiter
than before. Her lips trembled, and the
hands, lying idly in her lap, were tightly
clasped. She did not speak at once ; it
appeared as if she could not. At last
words came, and her voice was hard and
constrained as she said 

We will not speak of that."

Margaret said no more ; but her heart
bled for her friend, and for the hundredth
time she asked herself why Angela never
showed any emotion. Was it that she
could not, or that she would not ?

Soon after Oswald returned, and the
time of confidences was passed. They all
sat talking together for some little time,
and then retired to their rooms.

CHAPTER XIII.

*' Even so we leave behind,
As, chartered by some unknown Powers,
We stem across the sea of life by night.
The joys which were not for our use designed.
The friends to whom we had no natural right,
The homes that were not destined to be ours."

*' Oswald," said Margaret, the following
morning as they sat at breakfast, " before
we sail, I should like to see the ' Enchanted
\ alley ' again."

It will give me the greatest pleasure
to go with you. Have we time ? "

We must go to-day," she said. '* We can
go and come back in a day, and we do not
go on board till tomorrow afternoon."

It was settled so ; but here Angel interposed.


Take me with you," she cried. " I
have heard so much of this place of enchantment,
I confess I am devoured with
curiosity to see it. It was there Margaret
and Philip used to go and spend long days,
when they lived at Ash Fell, and read the
most sentimental poetry they could lay
hands on. It was there that Mr. Saxons
proposed, and it is there that you are
going to bid a long and last farewell to
England. I promise not to disturb you in
the least, only let me go with you."

Come by all means," cried Margaret
and Oswald in a breath.

It was a splendid day at the end of
August when Angel, Margaret, and Oswald
took their way to the " Enchanted Yalley."
They went part of the way by train, and

then drove on in the open carriage waiting
for them.

Angel sat silent throughout the drive.
Her keen eyes roamed restlessly from side
to side, taking in the beauty round her, but
she made no comment on it.

After driving for some distance, they
were obliged to leave their carriage, and
go the rest of the distance on foot. Here
they separated. Margaret and Oswald
walked in front. Angel followed slowly
alone. Once they turned and called to her
to " come on," but she waved them on,
answering that she was " exploring," and
they were soon lost to sight along the steep
path which led down into the valley.

When she felt that she was alone. Angel
drew a long breath, and, standing still,
looked around her. She had been walking
along a narrow, heathy footpath, hardly

VOL. III. 46

more than a sheep track, bordered by a few
late blooming wild roses and other common
flowers. Harebells waved in the long fine
grass, a straggling, star-like yellow flower
studded the ground, and above and around
all was the purple heather, over which the
moths and butterflies fluttered idly.

Angel took a long look around, and then
walked on slowly, making a nosegay of
moorland flowers, which she placed in her
breast.

After wandering on the hills for sometime,
she too descended to the valley,
though she reached it at a point some
distance higher up the stream than that
where Margaret and Oswald were sitting.
She stood by the stream, looking intently
into its whirling, eddying depths, hearing
as in a dream the monotonous sound of the
water flowing over the stones. She certainly

believed herself alone ; it was, therefore,
a surprise when she heard a voice at
her side ask 

What are you thinking of?"
She turned rather quickly, and saw
Philip standing close beside her.

Philip ! " she exclaimed ; " what are you
doing here ? "

What are you ? Are you alone ? "
No ; Margaret and Mr. Saxenholme are
here too. Did you know we were coming? "
He shook his head. " I only came by
chance. And you ? "

I came by intention," she answered, a

little brusquely. She was annoyed at the

interruption. " I came on purpose to see

this place ; I had so often heard of it."

They were silent, until Angel said 

We sail tomorrow. Did you know ? "

' Margaret told me. I am coming to

Liverpool to see you off. How long will it
be before you come back to England ? "

*' I hope never to come back."

Impossible ! Why should you exile
yourself out there ? "

Why should I come back ? What is
there to come back to ? Margaret will not
be here."

Margaret ! Margaret ! I believe you
care for no one in the world but Margaret."

True."

And yet you make other people believe
you care for them," he said, with some heat.

I think you are mistaken," she replied
absently, taking the knot of heather from
her breast and throwing the sprays one by
one into the water, where they sank for a
moment, then, rising to the surface again,
floated gaily down the stream.

That is how you treat your friends,"

drawing her attention to her own act.
You take them to you and make much of
them, and then cast them aside to fare as
they may."

She looked into his face and laughed.
The odd thing is, that when you throw
flowers into the water they only sink for a
moment, and then rise to the surface
again."

You mean that I shall forget you ? "
You may read my meaning as you
choose, but you are making assertions which
I beg leave to correct. Margaret has
always been and always will be my friend.
You and I were friends until you made me
try to love you ; now I dislike you."

The words were rapidly spoken, and
Philip winced under them.

I hope you will be happy in New
Zealand."

I am happy everywhere."

At this moment Oswald and Margaret,
who, having finished their conversation,
had come in search of Angel, suddenly
turned a corner and came in sight of
them.

Margaret drew back instinctively, saying


Do not go yet ; Philip is there."

But Angel had seen them, and she turned
and called Margaret.

" Come, Margaret, and see Philip. He
has come here in memory of you."

They all returned to Liverpool together
in the twilight. They were a silent party,
with the past and future in their minds.

The next day they sailed. Accompanied
by Philip, they went on board the steamer,
which was to sail with the tide in the
evening. There was no one but Philip to

see them off, and perhaps they were all
glad of it. Margaret's eyes were full of tears
as she said " good-bye " to her old friend,
and as he took her in his arms and kissed
her while he said his few words of farewell.
So they

Kissed and parted. Either's heart did ache
With thoughts of the old days."

Then came Oswald's hearty hand-shake,
and finally Philip's farewell to Angel. It
was soon over. What she felt nothing in
her manner betrayed. Philip's pale face
and constrained bearing told what he was
suffering. It seemed almost as though he
would have gone without saying anything ;
but she held out her hand in her frank way,
saying

Let us part friends, Philip."

"Good-bye," he answered, pressing her
hand for an instant in his own. Then he

left the steamer, it began to move, there
was a waving of handkerchiefs, the boat
steamed slowly down the river, and Philip
was left standing on the shore alone.

