PROLOGUE.

The pedestrian who had wandered into
the little village church, and, weary after
a long walk in the hot sun, had fallen asleep
in the cool dimness of the organ-loft, woke
suddenly and rubbed his eyes. He was
sufficiently awake to be conscious that the
words which he heard some one reading: ina
measured, monotonous voice, were part
of the marriage service, but he felt no
curiosity about the people who were being
married. He did not at any time find
villagers very interesting, and now he was
still too drowsy to raise his head and look

VOL. I. B

down into the cliurcli. He closed this eyes
and dozed off again, still hearing as in a
dream the voice of the clergyman, exhorting
the man and woman who stood before
him. Then the voice ceased, steps came
along the aisle, he heard the people go into
the vestry, from which they presently
came out again and left the church. Once
more that unbroken silence prevailed
which had reigned when he had first
stepped into the building; but it lasted
a very short time. Before he fell asleep
again he was roused, and this time
thoroughly, by a sudden peal of laughter
which broke in upon the sleepy stillness of
a July morning, which is on the point of
merging into afternoon, and rang through
the empty old church. It was a girl's
laughter,  about that, there could be no
mistake,  and whoever she was, she must
have been very much amused at something.

for she T\ent on laughing in an uncontrollable,
ecstatic manner, which seemed
strange amid such surroundings. It was
wonderful laughter, so rippling, so melodious,
and so full of enjoyment. The man
in the organ-loft listened spellbound ; he
felt that he would never forget that
laughter; if he heard it again after twenty
years he would recognize it. Moreover,
his curiosity was roused at last. It was
impossible such laughter as that could
come from the throat of a common village
girl ; he resolved to get up and go and see
what had happened. But when he got
downstairs, he found the church door was
already locked ; the sound had come to his
ears through the open windows. By the
time bis knocldug and shaking at the
door had been heard, and the clerk had
come to set him free, his mood had
changed, and he was too heated and out of
B 2

temper to make any inquiries concerning
the marriage which had just taken place.
He shook the dust off his feet, and went
his way to the next place on the programme
of the walking tour which he was
making. Other thoughts came to obliterate
the memory of what had just taken
place, only, as his ill-humour worked itself
off, he remembered more and more clearly
those peals of laughter which had sounded
from the churchyard, and he enjoyed the
thought that if ever Fate brought him
across the path of this unknown, unseen
bride, whose marriage seemed to cause her
such amusement, he would be able at once
to identify her.

CHAPTER I.

When day with evening blending
Sinks from the summer sky,
I've seen thy spirit bending
In fond idolatry."

"In summer's mellow midnight."

The sun was setting over Stanedale Pike
with a ruddy brilliance wliicli promised a
fine day for the morrow. Everything
was bathed in the clear evening light, and
stood out against the stainless blue of the
sky with a clearness of outline not observable
in the daytime. Distant objects
looked near ; the farms scattered over the
fell sides were more clearly distinguishable
from the moors and fields which surrounded
them  one misht almost have counted the

cattle and sleep as they moved about in
their pastures. Under these circumstances
a woman clad in white and seated
in the midst of those darkly purple moors
upon which the setting sun shone directly,
must have been a very conspicuous object.
She sat upon a heap of turf, her feet
resting on the heather, her chin supported
upon her hand, gazing across the valley to
the huge Pike, the summit of which still
glowed in the ruddy light, though the rest
of its surface lay in the shadow and looked
almost threateningly dark as compared
with the rest of the country.

She could scarcely have looked upon a
more beautiful scene. Found her lay the
moors, fringed on the horizon with a line
of firs ; below her lay woods, heavy in the
sombre green of their late summer foliage ;
beyond the woods came wide sloping green
fields, and then the lake, an exquisitely

beautiful sheet of water, now lying motionless,
half in light and half in shadow. On
the other side of the water were more
fields and a few scattered houses forming:
the village of Stanedale, the whole backed
up by the Pike and other hills of no great
height, perhaps, as compared with mountains
not on English soil, but showing
grandly amid their actual surroundings.
That was what she saw when she looked
straight before her ; if she turned her eyes
to the right, she saw the head of the lake,
shut in by rugged heath-clad screes ; to the
left she saw down the water  its whole extent
lay before her to where at Lake Foot
it slipped away in a silently gliding
stream.

The woman herself, who sat looking at
all this beauty, drinking it in with eyes
and senses, was just as beautiful in her
own way. She was tall  that was plain

even "when she was sitting down  and
there was wonderful grace in lier bending
attitude, with one elbow supported on her
knee, and the other hand hanging loosely
by her side. Her face was a very striking
one, with a great deal of power, and
power of no common order, in its chiselled
features. The mouth and chin, expressive
at once of strength and tenderness, were
marvellously beautiful; golden hair was
loosely coiled on top of her head, and
then by some freak of nature her eyes,
eyelashes, and eyebrows were jet-black 
the eyebrows very delicately pencilled,
and forming two level lines upon her
forehead ; the eyes were very peculiar,
deep and soft, but lit up at times by a
gleam which suggested that the spirit of
all evil had made his abode in the girls
soul. The whole face was animated by a
humorous look which showed that its

owner was wont to regard life in general
rather as a comedy than a tragedy. Only
a very careful observer would have seen
indications in this beautiful face of a
strange spirit of yielding and dependence,
which existed side by side
with other and very opposite characteristics.
Just now she was absorbed
in watching the sun set; she had spent
a perfect day upon the moors, she was
seeing the day fade into as perfect an
evening, and the transformation-scene
stirred the deepest part of her nature.

The sun sank behind the Pike, and a
kind of shadowy chill fell upon the
earth  it looked a face from which a
smile had vanished. After sitting for a
few minutes longer, her eyes fixed upon
the lake, the hue of which had suddenly
changed from silver to leaden, the girl
rose to her feet and prepared to go.

She picked up her hat, which lay on the
ground beside her, took the little basket
in her hand, and began to tread the rough,
stony road which led down into the valley.
She walked very slowly, often pausing to
look around her, or to gather a flower, ora
bunch of leaves, which she put into her
basket. Once she took out her watch,
and smiled as she said aloud, for in those
lonely roads there was no one to overhear
her, 

'' Late ! but the domestic constitution
will be so convulsed with the arrival of
the distinguished stranger that my irregularity
may pass unnoticed."

She continued her walk not less leisurely
than before. She had now reached the
high-road which went round the lake, so
put on her hat, though she still left her
gloves in the bottom of her basket. She
skirted the lake for some little distance

and passed through the village, wliicli lead
not yet developed a street, then she turned
down a road leading to the lake, with
fields on one side and rippling beck on
the other. At one point the stream was
spanned by an old ivy-hung bridge, which
had to be crossed before you got to the
old freestone house called Beveridge.
This house was built in the shadow of the
Pike, and commanded a beautiful view of
the lake and the moors. There was a
great deal of ground belonging to the
house, all of which, except that immediately
surrounding the building, was in a very
wild, uncultivated condition.

In the dining-room of this house at this
same moment, four people were seated at
the tea-table  Mr. Richardson, his two
daughters, and a man, a guest, who had
arrived an hour earlier.

Mr. Richardson was a noble-looking old

man, tall and white-haired, with, large and
rather irregular, though very powerful
features. His face always wore a thoughtful
and rather absent expression, and his lips
parted frequently in a humorous smile.
His eldest daughter, Marion, who sat
opposite to him, was a tall girl with a
beautiful face, and more dignity than grace
of manner and carriage. There was
always a frown upon her forehead, and her
lips were often drawn together in rather a
straight line. Marion had grievances, and
thought that her lot in life was rather
hard. Her mother had died nine years
before, when she was sixteen, and Marion,
with all the enthusiasm of which her nature
was capable, had determined to supply her
place with her father, and make him, if
possible, forget his wife's loss. She had
not succeeded. Her father and she had
little in common, and after resisting his

daughter's consolations for some time, he
put her and her sister under the temporary
care of their aunt, and went from home.
He wandered oyer the greater part of the
world, and when he came home, after an
absence of five years, he brought with him
what only served to widen the gap between
his daughter and himself. Ethel, the
younger girl, was two years Marion's junior,
like her sister, on a small and insignificant
scale, and closely attached to her.

The guest was Stephen Knox, a man
whom Mr. Richardson and his daughters
had met in the early summer at a watering
place where they had spent a short time.
He had paid Marion a great deal of
attention, and a few days before this
particular one had written to suggest a
short visit to Stanedale, basing his claim
on some rather vague words of Mr.
Richardson's, uttered at parting, and forgotten

as soon as spoken. The visit was
regarded by Marion and lier sister as an
event of great importance in their quiet
lives, and Stephen's manner on meeting
Marion again had certainly given considerable
colour to their suppositions.
But nothing definite had yet been said.

To these four people came in the girl
who had been sitting on the moors watchings
the sun set. She came in with the
graceful, gliding step peculiar to her, and
took the empty place between Ethel and
Mr. Richardson. He stretched out his
hand to her under cover of the tablecloth,
and she pressed it, saying with rather a
deprecating little smile, 

I am a wretch, I know."

*' I cannot contradict you," he replied.

They exchanged a few more remarks
quite to themselves, and then she turned
to take her cup of tea from Ethel's hand.

But she gave so little attention to what
she was doing, being in fact absorbed in
her conversation with Mr. Ricliardson, that
the cup slipped in the saucer, and but fora
timely effort on Ethel's part, must have
fallen on to the table. Marion watched the
trifling incident narrowly, and when the
cup had been safely placed on the table, said,
with a deepening of her habitual frown, 

I wish you would be more careful,
Llaryla. You almost spilt your tea."

I suppose there is more in the pot,"
just turning her face to the speaker, and
her voice sounded provokingly careless.
Marion's lips tightened as she replied, 

You do not seem to reflect that a cap-full
of tea poured on to the tablecloth would
not improve its appearance."

Surely this is not the only tablecloth
we have got," smiling in a way which
suggested amused toleration, and could

scarcely fail to be irritating to Marion. But
this little conversation brought her attention
to what was going on around her, and
she said, 

Won't you introduce me to your
friend ? "

Certainly," said Marion, rather stiffly ;
Mr. Knox, Miss Goldengay  papa's
ward," she added in explanation.

Miss Goldengay and Mr. Knox bowed,
exchanged a few trifling remarks, and then
the girl returned to her interrupted conversation
with Mr. Richardson while Mr.
Knox resumed his with Marion and her
sister.

When tea was over, they all went into
the drawing-room. Marion and Ethel each
took up some needlework. Marjda hung
aimlessly about for some little time, turning
over the books and papers which lay on the
various tables, leaned out of the open

window for a minute or two, uttered more

than one deep sigh, and finally left the

room. She did not appear again during

the evenings. Even when candles were

lighted and good-nights exchanged, she

was not forthcoming. Stephen felt a

little offended as he went upstairs ; he was

accustomed to be treated with a great deal

of respect.

The guest-chamber in which he was

lodged was at the front of the house, and

the first thing he did when he reached it

was to go to the window, draw up the

blind, and look out. The full moon was

shining, and he felt the tiny yellow flame

of his candle to be very unnecessary, so he

put it out, and then found that the room

was almost as light as in the daytime.

The window was slightly open, he pushed

it up as high as it would go, and leaned

out into the night, drinking in the cool air
VOL. I.

and exquisite perfumes of a country midnight,
while his eyes wandered over the
view before him. The lake lay in the
moonlight, looking like a sheet of molten
silver, the wide moors spread themselves
out in its radiance, the trees stood motionless.
The only sound which came to his
ears was the rush of the beck, near the
house, as it hastened over the stones to the
lake. It was impossible not to feel that it
would be a sin to go to bed on such a night ;
besides, Mr. Knox seemed still to hear in
his ears the roar of the train in which he
had spent so many hours that day ; his
pulses were still beating more rapidly than
usual, with the pleasurable excitement of
his arrival and meeting with Marion. He
wanted a little time for reflection, and
what time could be better than this still
moonlight night, when every one but himself
would be in bed and asleep and he seemed

for the moment to have the whole world
to himself ?

His thoughts ran chiefly on Marion. He
had admired her very much when he
had first made her acquaintance in a hotel ;
to-day, when he saw her for the first time
in her own home, he admired her still
more. He had every intention of asking
her to be his wife, and from many signs
which he, as a lover, had interpreted in only
one way, he did not anticipate a refusal.
She was a queenly creature he told himself,
an English girl of the best type ; with
an English girl's beauty, luxuriant brown
hair, and clear grey eyes. He thought of
her grave, dignified manner, cold and
reserved with strangers, but with him,
the chosen one, thawing half shyly, half
unresisting. He thought of her pale,
proud face, told over in his mind her pure,
fair features, and heaved a sigh of content
c 2

as he thought that on the day when he

pleased he could call all these his own.

He could scarcely understand how he

had found such a peerless creature still

fancy-free. He lost himself in a dream

from which he was roused suddenly by

the oldest, craziest set of chimes he had

ever heard. They rang out from the old

church tower, and after a pause the clock

struck one. He pulled out his watch and

mechanically compared London time with

that which regulated the movements of

Stanedale, and then sank back into his

dreams.

He did not know how long this second
dream had lasted before he was roused
again, this time by hearing the gate in the
garden below, swing upon its hinges and
fall softly to. He started up, wondering
if in a place like Stanedale thieves could
possibly break through and steal when

honest folks were supposed to be asleep
and off their guard.

With the idea in his mind that thieves
were possible, he drew back and looked
from behind his curtains very cautiously,
and he needed all his presence of mind to
prevent the exclamation which rose to his
lips becoming audible and drawing attention
to himself.

The person who had come in at the
gate, and was now standing in the middle
of the drive, looking around her, was no
other than Miss Goldengay herself. There
could not possibly be any mistake. Even
in this short time, Mr. Knox felt familiar
with the tall, slender figure in a white dress
and the beautiful gold-crowned head.
She stood perfectly still, her hands clasped
before her, her head slightly lifted and
turned so that he could see her profile.

Mr. Knox was silent from sheer amazement.

What in the name of fortune, he
thought, was she doing out at that hour,
and alone ? Where had she been ? What
was Mr. Richardson thinking of to allow
his ward to wander about the country in
the small hours of the morning ?

All this time he was watching her, and
now she turned, she was coming in. He
drew back a little further ; he did not
want her to see him, and in passing before
the house, she might so easily look up.
How, he asked himself, did she propose to
get in ? She did not appear to be in
haste ; she walked about the garden for a
time, gathering a flower here and there,
and then, after another look at the lake
and the moors, came towards the house.
She did not attempt to get in at the front
door, she went round to the side, and he
saw nothing more of her. He listened for
the sound of a door opening or closing, for

footsteps on the stairs, but lie heard
nothing, and after he had listened and
waited for some time, the chimes again
rang out, the clock struck two, and he
began to think it was time to go to bed.
He did not, however, go to sleep. His
brain was just as active as it had been
before ; but now. he thought of Martha
instead of Marion. He thought of her
with repulsion and anger as an ill-regulated
being, whose connection with respectable
people was to be deplored. At last, he
sought consolation in the supposition that
she was mad  must be mad. So many
things seemed to point to it ; particularly
this midnight rambling in the liofht of

o o o

the full moon; it accounted, too, for
her negligent manner to himself. The
thought must have given him comfort, for
in the midst of it he fell asleep.

CHAPTER n.

And many shocks
Our order
Must every day endure."

The consequence of Mr. Knox's prolonged
night-watch was that he came downstairs
late for breakfast on the folio win 2:
morning. His tardy arrival seemed to
have been the subject of some discussion,
for as he opened the door he heard a
voice he recognized as belonging to Miss
Goldengay, saying, 

He is not ours, we have nothing to do
with him, we need not wait."

On looking towards her, he saw that
both she and Mr. Richardson had begun

breakfast, and from a slight cloud on
Marion's forehead, which, however, disappeared
as she caught sight of him, he
concluded that the house had been divided
on the question of his importance.

Greetings were exchanged, and then
Martha turned again to her guardian,
saying,

It will be a magnificent day. I shall
take my lunch out again, and not reappear
until tea-time."

Mr. Knox, with a vivid recollection of
what had taken place the night before,
turned to her, saying, 

Are you never timid about walking
alone on these lonely country roads, Miss
Golden gay ? "

Why should I be timid ? These roads
are too unfrequented to be unsafe ; you
may walk fifteen or sixteen miles without
meeting any one."

'but is that quite wise ? You might
meet some very disagreeable person."

No ; I tell you, I never meet any one."

Exactly. It cannot be safe for
you."

"If I never meet any one, I cannot
possibly run any risk ; my safety lies in
their excessive loneliness."

Mr. Richardson was looking at his ward
and smiling, and Martha's eyes were
beginning to gleam, while her lips twitched.
Mr. Knox saw it all, and it did not make
him more yielding. When he was not
yielding, he was rigid, and he now said
obstinately, 

*your defence is no defence at all.
You might meet some one, and then it
would be very unpleasant for you."

'' Possibilities are infinite. A great
many things might happen, but they never
do."

There are some possibilities against
which we may guard ; it is foolish to run
unnecessary risks."

'' I quite agree with you. I have heard
that if it were known what risks were run
in every railway journey, many people
would never enter a train."

Before he could reply, Marion began to
speak.

' You exaggerate very much, Martha.
You do sometimes meet disagreeable
people. You know you often bring home
tales of tramps you have met."

Mr. Knox smiled triumphantly, but
Martha went on calmly, 

Tramps are not always disagreeable ;
I like some tramps very much ; they are
such good company, and have seen so
many places. Sometimes they have a
very keen sense of humour. I remember
one who took an honest pride in his

calling ; he called himself a cosmopolitan.
There were few places where he said he
had not spent at least a night ; at some
towns he had sojourned weeks or even
months, always free of expense, his friends
having taken upon themselves the cost of
his lodging and maintenance."

She leaned back in her chair and laughed
a low, soft laugh, full of amusement. Mr.
Richardson also laughed heartily ; Marion
and Ethel looked a little disgusted, Mr.
Knox preserved a grave silence.

"There was another," went on Miss
Goldengay, " whom I met on the Northern
Road. He had a wonderful amount
of independence, and was walking from
Rilford, where so many work people were
out of employment just then. I asked him
if he had found absolutely nothing todo
at Milford."

'' * Oh, yes,' he said, ' a fellow offered

me work at twelve shillings a week, but
I told him to keep his brass and let it
grow a bit.' "

Again she laughed, and this time the
sound seemed familiar to Mr. Knox ; it was
like the echo of laughter he had heard
before, though where or when he could
not tell. But his disgust could no longer
be restrained, and he began to speak
strongly.

Is it possible," he said, " that you
venture to speak to such wretches, gaol-birds
from your description, who prefer
tramping along the high-road to earning
an honest living ? I have no doubt the
man had a wife and children."

He had. He said he was tired of
them, and was going to start afresh elsewhere."


Your sympathies really run in strange
channels. What about the wife left to

support her children as best she could ?
One feels almost tempted to say she
would be justified in following his
example."

From what he said I gathered that
she had taken the initiative."

Mr. Knox was not prepared with a
retort, and Marjla, having finished her
breakfast, rose and left the room.

Marion and Ethel had planned to take
Mr. Knox out-of-doors, but as they left
the dining-room, Miss Richardson was
given a note which had just been brought
by a servant. It was from Mr. Richardson's
sister, and was to give notice that she
intended to drive over to Beckbridge that
morning, and spend the day with her
nieces. The projected walk had therefore
to be given up, and it was presently
revealed to Stephen that Marion and
Ethel were going to be busy, and that he

was expected to dispose of his own
time.

He went into the garden and leaned
over the wall, wondering what he should
do with himself. He still felt angry with
Marjla. He did not like her; it was
clear that she had an unamiable and
unwomanly character, and he feared that
her presence would much decrease the
pleasure of his visit to Stanedale. A girl
who stayed out-of-doors till two o'clock in
the morning, and avowed a preference for
the society of tramps, was no fit companion
for his future wife. Then he
wondered who she was. When he had
made the acquaintance of Mr. Richardson
and his daughters, he had never heard anyone
of them mention Martha Goldengay.
How long had she been living at Beck-bridge,
and where had she come from ?
There did not appear to be much affection

between lier and the Misses E-icharclson,
though her guardian seemed very fond of
her.

As these thoughts passed through his
mind he became aware of the presence of
his obnoxious acquaintance. She must
have left the house bj some back or side
entrance, and was now walking slowly
along the steep road leading to the station,
with a basket swinging from her hand,
and he suddenly remembered what he had
heard her say at breakfast, that she was
going to take her Umch out-of-doors and
stay till tea-time. He resolved to follow
her and see where she was going : he might
find an opportunity for saying what
burned on his tongue.

The wall against which he was leaning
was conveniently low; he put his hand on to
the top and vaulted into the road. He
did not want to talk to Martha just then.

only to see where lie was going ; so lie
kept at a discreet distance behind her,
hoping that she would not turn her head
and see him.

It was not Marjla's custom to look
behind her either when walking or doing
anything else, so Mr. Knox was able to
follow her in perfect safety. She went
steadily on up the steep road, under a
railway-arch, and then turning a little to the
right, she began to mount an almost perpendicular
hill, shaded tall, over-arching trees,
and with a brawling little stream hurrying
down on one side. Mr. Knox, who was
unaccustomed to hills, was struck with
dismay ; he could imagine that if he slipped
he AYOuld roll to the bottom of the hill as
though down an alpine precipice. The trees,
too, seemed to shut out the Hight and air ; he
could have wished them away, but that just
then he stumbled over a projecting root .

VOL. I. D

It then flashed across him that these same
projecting roots with which the ground was
covered might be used as rests against
which to plant his feet when it became
absolutely necessary to pause and take
breath. He tried the plan and found it
answer admirably.

By this time Martha was some distance
before him. She walked on lightly and
easily, nor did she slacken speed even at
the steepest part of the path.

At the top of the hill Mr. Knox stopped
and looked back. He was lifted hish
above the village, even above the tops of
the trees. He saw straight down into the
beautiful Stanedale valley, and could trace
the high-road winding between the heavy
woods and lofty cliffs, to where the higher
hills rose in the distance and shut out any
further view. Looking to the right, he
caught a glimpse of the lake. There were

no sounds except such as belonged purely
to the woods and fields, the trilling of
birds and the lowing of cows in the pastures,
broken in upon from time to time by the
complaining of the sheep upon the hills.
Even the soul of Mr. Knox was stirred by
what he saw, and the deep peace and stillness
which rested on it all, and with an
unconscious sigh he turned to follow
Martha.

At first he feared he had lost her ; but
he saw her hat above a wall a long way in
advance of where he stood. He hastened
in that direction, and soon found himself
in a rough lane with walls and high
tangled hedges on each side, and Martha
walking leisurely before him. In a few
minutes they reached the open moors at
the foot of the Pike, which towered grandly
up into the blue sky. Here the air was
quite different from down in the valley ;
D 2

keen and fresh, redolent of heather and
wide, open space. He drank it in, and
even as he walked felt new strength enter
into him.

He wondered where Martha was leading
him  they were out on the open moors,
remote from all sound and sight of life,
except that belonging to the moors themselves.
Wilder and barer grew the
country, not even a solitary farmhouse
was in sight, and still Martha walked on.
They had passed one or two small tarns,
brown and clear, and more than one tiny
beck, born of a day's rain and likely to
cease its flow as suddenly as it had begun ;
but presently his ears were smitten by a roar
and rush of waters, and turning a shoulder
of the hill, they came upon a bold, brown
mountain torrent, which came rushing over
the moor, singing aloud for very joy achieving
broken loose from its prison among

the mountains. Here Martha turned aside
from the path, and after crossing a wide
strip of marshy ground, where Mr. Knox
had some difficulty in following her, she
stopped. Then turning suddenly she saw
him.

She did not speak at once and he profited
by the short pause to scramble over the few
rocks which lay between them and to place
himself at her side. Then he said with
rather an awkward smile, 

I daresay you are wondering how I
found my way here ? "

You followed me, I suppose."

'' Well, yes, I did. I was in the garden
and saw you setting off."

How is it you are not with the
Richardson ? Before you came into the
breakfast-room they were planning some
wonderful excursion for your enjoyment."

Mr. Knox explained how the excursion

had come to nothing. Marjla smiled
openly when she heard who was coming,
and then said, 

How is it that you did not overtake
me sooner? "

He looked a little confused, bnt began
an explanation which Martha interrupted
by saying,

*' I had a dog once, and sometimes when
I went out and told him to stop at home
he would follow me under the trees, or
otherwise keep out of sight until he
thought he had got too far to be sent
back, and then he came out of hiding,
evidently thinking he had done a very
clever thing."

Well ? '' he said boldly, though he felt
both his colour and temper rising.

Oh, nothing. It is an anecdote, that
is all."

She went away to some little distance

as she spoke, and he stood still, feeling
rather awkward and saying nothing. Then
his eyes wandered to the place where they
were. They stood on high ground, in a
kind of hollow between the Pike and some
tall, large crags which rose on the other
side. The hollow itself was occupied by a
small tarn, on the brink of which they
stood. The water looked almost black,
there was not a scrap of vegetation growing
near it, not a single water-plant broke
the dark smoothness of its surface. The
ground all about was strewn with masses
of rock, grey and weather-beaten as the
crags that towered above. At the end
of the tarn, the water broke away and
was heard rushing under the stones,
though there was nothing to be seen. In
the middle of the tarn lay a large bare
rock, and the motionless water lay black
against its sides. The crags and hills

came sheer down to the brink of the little
lake. Now, on a brilliant August morning,
with the sun shining outside and a
cloudless blue sky above, it looked as little
eerie as it could, but Mr. Knox could not
help wondering how it would appear at
night, in the starlight, or with the moon
silvering the black water and throwing
strange shadows upon the ground and on
the sides of the hills. This reminded him
of the errand upon which he had come,
and he moved to the place where Martha
was now seated on a fragment of rock,
with her basket on the ground beside her.

To be quite truthful'' he began, '' I
did follow you here with a purpose. I
wanted to ask you a question."

Suppose you sit down  we could talk
more comfortably in that way''

He seated himself near her and then
sat silent, suddenly realizing that he was

a perfect stranger to this girl, and had
scarcely a right to remonstrate with her.
There was something, too, in her strange
black eyes which made it difficult for him
to speak. He conquered the feeling,
however, and said, 

'' I wanted to ask where you went last
night, when you left the drawing-room
after tea."

How do you know I went anywhere
? "

I saw you come in just before two
o'clock this morning, and I naturally felt
some curiosity about what you had been
doing out of doors at a time when most
people are in bed and asleep."

If curiosity were as natural to me as
you say it is to you, I might ask what
you were doing up at an hour whenas
you justly observe, most people are in
bed."

He lead not expected this counter-accusation
and was silent for a moment.
She watched him with a gathering smile.

Come," she said at last, " how is it
that you saw me ? "

'' I could not sleep," he replied; "my
head ached after my journey, and the
view from my window was so beautiful,
I could not leave it."

Why did you not make some sign
that you were there ? I do not mind
being looked at, but I decidedly object
to being peeped at from behind curtains."

'but," he said, leaving that point,
'' where had you been ? "

Where do you suppose ? " leaning
back in her rocky seat.

"I thought it possible that you had
been to see some sick person and could
not get home sooner."

She smiled frankly as she answered, 

"I never go to visit sick people; I had
been here."

Here ! "

Here at Hawks water, where sou and
I are sitting now."

Impossible ! "

Not at all. You have just come
yourself, and you see that, as roads go
in this part of the world, the road up
here is very good."

She spoke lightly, and Mr. Knox was
silent, trying to realize it.

She watched him with evident amusement,
and began to laugh, as she said, 

'' You don't seem to take it in even yet,
though there is nothing so very remarkable
in it."

How could you do anything so
imprudent?" he said at last. 'suppose
you had met somebody ? "

'' This is the last place in the world

where I should be likely to meet any one
at that hour."

But what made you come ? "
*' I came for a walk, and stayed thinking."
'' Do you often take such walks ? "
'' Yes, very often," speaking as if rather
tired of the subject.

*' I am surprised that Mr. Richardson
allows it."

'' Mr. Richardson ? " she paused, smiling,
and then went on  *' Mr. Richardson
allows me everything ; he spoils me fearfully,
he is ridiculously fond of me."

There was a pause. Martha sat looking
straight before her, the smile still hovering
round her lips, a softness in her eyes
which made them dangerously beautiful,
Mr. Knox spoke first : 

'' I daresay you will be surprised to hear
that until yesterday I had no idea of your
existence. When I knew Mr. Richardson

and this slaughters at Sands they never
mentioned yon."

I am not at all surprised ; why should
they mention me ? "

You live with them and form part of
their life. It seems strange to me that I
never heard your name."

'' When there are certain disagreeable
to be borne at home, people try to forget
them when they go away."

What do you mean ? Why do you
speak so mysteriously ? I wish you would
tell me how you came to be Mr. Richardson's
ward."

I have no objection to tell you. You
would probably hear some time, and of
course I shall show myself in a more
advantageous light than they would."

CHAPTER III.

"List a brief tale."

Miss Goldengay sat in silence for a
minute or two, and then began her story.

My father and his brother were the
only children of their parents, and my
father was the younger son. I can tell
you nothing about him, because I never
knew him, he died a short time before I
was born. He had very good prospects,
but he ruined them all by marrying mama.
He was sent into the Continent to forget
a foolish attachment in England, and he
straightway met mama, fell violently in
love with her, and they were married at
once. I must tell you that mama is the
only person from whom I ever heard this

story. Mama was a Pole, very beautiful,
and of course very poor. So was lier
husband very poor. His family, as you
may believe, lost no time in quarrelling with
him, and he never saw any of them after
his marriage. When mama and I lived on
the Continent, and I saw how beautiful and
admired she was, and found how happily
we lived on our little bit of money, I never
could understand why his people quarrelled
with him. Since I came to England,
four years ago, I have understood very
well. When they had been married a
few months, papa died, and mama was
left a widow with very little money."

She paused for a moment and then
continued : 

I dp not know whether I could make
you understand what kind of woman
mama was. When I was a child she was
a great mystery to me, but as I grew up I

found her very interesting. I do not think
there are tiny women like her, which,
perhaps, is less to be regretted than might
appear at first sight. What is the
matter?" she broke off abruptly to
ask.

I did not speak."

*' Not with your tongue ; but your face
is more expressive than you suppose. I
have said something of which you disapprove."


Pray go on with your story."

Not until you have told me what you
were thinking ; though, after all, I can
guess."

Indeed," was his rather sceptical
reply.

'' You were thinking 1 was wrong to
speak or mama in that way ? "

'' I was thinking so. I dislike to hear
parents spoken of disrespectfully."

She laughed a little, and he said again, 
"Please go on with your story."
Do not interrupt me again, or I shall
never get to the end''

I did not interrupt you, I said nothing ;
it was you who attacked me. What was
your mother like ? "

She was very beautiful,  not in my
way, but dark and very small, and merciless
in her judgment of women without beauty.
She had very winning manners, and
wherever we went she was surrounded by
a crowd of men, all making love to her,
and keeping her in a good humour. Most
women in that position would not have
cared to have a daughter always with
them who grew apace, and promised to be
as beautiful as themselves. She was very
unlike other women; she looked much
younger than she was, and she liked to
astonish people by telling them how many

VOL. I. E

years had gone by since lier wedding-day,
and to produce a daughter taller than
herself. She was not afraid of losing her
influence over men ; if she had lived to bea
little black eyed, white-haired old lady of
a hundred, I believe she would have had as
many admirers as when she was twenty."

When is Mr. Richardson coming in ? "
asked her companion.

Now, at this moment," she replied.
We were in Dresden, and one of mama's
friends brought Mr. Richardson to our
rooms. It was after the death of his wife,
and he was on his way home after having
wandered all over the world. He admired
mama, though I think he always laughed
at her a little, but he and I soon became
great friends. We spent all our time
together ; he was kinder to me than I can
say. I had seen a great many English
gentlemen  he was the first who made me

want to come to England and live amongst
them."

Mr. Knox was astonished at the change
in her ; her voice thrilled him : with the
wonderful softness in her face and eyes she
looked exquisite.

'* He was much distressed at the state
into which my morals and education had
fallen, and he proposed to mama that I
should come here and live with him and
his daughters, as his youngest daughter.
*' Did she consent ? "
She consented. He brought me with
him four years ago, and I have lived here
since."

'' And your mother ? "
She died the following year."
Did she leave you in his charge ? "
'' She left me in nobody's charge. She
died very suddenly, without a moment's

warning.

  

UNIVERSmrOFIMtNorr

*' Then it was by your own arrangement
you stayed here, or did Mr. Ricliardson
propose it ? I almost wonder your relations
did not claim you."

A singular change passed over Martha's
face. For a moment Mr. Knox thought
she was going to be very angry ; then she
smiled and said, 

I thought I told you there had been a
quarrel; I do not know that they were
aware of my existence."

'' I once met a Sir Edward Goldengay ;
is he any relation to you ? "

He is my uncle, my father's elder
brother."

'' I think you are foolish not to make up
the quarrel. Mr. Richardson is an old
man ; what will you do when he dies, and
you have no relatives to go to ? "

Her eyes gleamed with sudden anger,
and her face went very white.

'' How dare sou talk of his death ! " she
said ; ' and what is it to you if I have nota
friend in the world ? "

Oh, nothing," he replied rather stiffly,
I only thought I would give you a little
advice. I confess I see nothing in what I
said to warrant such atone or such words."

She laughed a little unsteadily. " Do
not say any more such things. I beg of
you."

There was a silence which lasted some
little time, and which Marjda broke by
saying,

I was just sixteen then. Have you no
curiosity about Marion's and Ethel's feelings
when I came ? "

Something in her tone caused him to
answer guardedly, 

"I do not quite understand."

'' Do you suppose they liked my
coming ? "

< Why should they not ? You speak as
if they were naturally unfriendly towards
you. I am sure both Miss Richardson
and her sister are above that kind of
thing."

'* No doubt. I have no hesitation in saying
that all they did was right, and that
the sense of outrage they experienced was
altogether justifiable. It might have been
better if we would have accepted the situation
in the same spirit, but they cried and
I laughed, and the more they cried, the
more I laughed, and made myself everyday
more hateful to them."

You were wrong'' interrupted Mr.
Knox ; *' you had no right to laugh. You
might have made friends of them from the
beginning ; it is evidently your own fault
if you are not on good terms now."

I have no doubt of it : did I not say
they had reason on their side all through ? ""

Miss Richardson could not be wilfully
unkind to any one, it would be contrary to
her nature, which I am convinced is all
sweetness. Her mind is too delicate to
allow her to inflict suffering upon anyone."


I quite agree with you," replied
Martha, looking not at him, but straight
before her to the high ridge of moor on the
other side of the lake. " She is, I am sure,
of very uncommon clay, and as such must
have careful handling. We all know that
the rarest things are often the most brittle,
and will not stand wear and tear like
coarser vessels.

I do not understand you ; you speak
in riddles."

Perhaps you will learn by experience."

Her words were followed by a somewhat
lengthy silence, which Mr. Knox at last
broke by asking, 

What have you been doing all this
time ? ''

*' I ? " rousing herself ; " very much what
I am doing now, spending my time out of
doors without any definite employment.
Without any wish to represent myself as
less obnoxious than I must of necessity
have been, I canst think I was very much
in the way. This kind of country was
quite new to me, and I at once began to
explore it. In the parts of Germany where
I had lived there are no hills like these, no
woods and lakes and lanes. I had spent
my childhood near Posen, and you must
have been in that country before you can
picture its utter flatness. In the flattest
parts of England, Mr. Richardson says,
you are within sight, or a dayes walk of
the hills, but there you may travel for days,
and the country is as flat as when you set
out. The woods are different they are

forests, and the lakes are so vast and
lonely, so unlike these."

'' Not a country which you would be very
sorry to leave, I should think ? "

It was my own country ; remember 1
am half a Pole."

The intelligence gave him a little shock ;
he had somehow failed to grasp that the
girl seated at his side was the daughter of
a penniless Polish countess and a disinherited
younger son.

What are you going to do now ? " he
asked; ''areyou going to live here always ?"

Her face changed, her figure seemed to
expand, her eyes looked larger, and her
lips parted, as though drawing in a wider,
fuller life, her delicate nostrils quivered a
little. She looked like a caged eagle,
biding its time till the door of its prison
should be opened.

'' At present," she replied, '' Mr.

Richardson claims me ; I owe everything
to him and he needs me, but later  "

*' What later ? " looking at her rather
curiously.

I shall go and live in a town."

He laughed at this unexpected answer,
and, as though she did not wish to pursue
the subject, she said, 

Now tell me something about yourself?
Who are you, where do you live,
and what do you do ? "

My story is more commonplace than
yours. The only resemblance between us
is that we are both without either parents
or brothers and sisters. I live in London.
I was born there, and as I have a sufficient
fortune I do nothing in particular. Before
I came here I was negotiating with Sir
William Hunter about a secretaryship
which he had offered me ; I do not know
if it will come to anything."

' Why not?"

He is going to India, and I do not know
if I should care to go. Besides, the circumstances
are different now."

If you marry Marion, you will have to
give up that idea," thought Martha, but
aloud she said, while she lifted up her little
basket and opened it, 

I am going to eat my lunch. I can't
offer you much, because there was only
enough put up for me. You can choose
between short commons here, and peace
and plenty at Beckbridge."

He felt that she might have made it
more difficult for him to say, " I will stay
here, " aod he took that for a sign that she
wanted him to stay, so he answered
lazily,

Thank you, I do not want anything;
but if you can spare me a biscuit, I will
eat that to keep you company. "

As they lunched they talked of many
things. Stephen had left his seat, and
stretched himself upon the ground near
Martha, and she sat and looked at him.
Her eyes rested calmly and critically upon
his tall, strong figure, his dark, colourless
face, with features regular enough for
beauty, and which yet repelled her
strangely. She looked at him for sometime
and then thought, 

"You look as cold as ice, but, if I am
not very much mistaken, you can get into
tremendous rages, when you will do any
mad thing, and you are as jealous as
Othello. It is well for Marion that she
has no other admirers'*

CHAPTER IV.

"The argument of yoiir praise balm of your age,"

Why is your speech so faint 'i Are you not well 1 ''
I have a pain upon my forehead here."

It was on the clay following his long talk
with Martha that Stephen found himself
walking with Mr. Richardson towards the
lake in the cool of the evening. Their waylay
along two wide grass-grown lanes
bordered by tall, ragged hedges full of
honeysuckle and a few late-blooming wild
roses. In the fields on either side the hay
was lying in fragrant heaps, for the season
had been a late one, and though it was
the beginning of August, cautious farmers
had not yet cleared their fields. At the end

of the first lane, the two men turned to
the left, and crossed a stone bridge overgrown
with ivy and spanning the clear,
shallow beck, flowing on its way to empty
itself into the lake. It was an exquisite
evening after an oppressively hot day,
and the sight of the wide smooth, sheet
of water was more grateful even than
usual.

It was the first time Stephen had been
alone with his host, and he was conscious
of a feeling of constraint. He had never
felt in sympathy with Mr. Richardson, he
could not understand him. He seemed to
have so little in common with his charming
daughters, and to be in perfect
harmony with that strange creature Miss
Goldengay. He walked in silence, therefore,
waiting for his companion to speak
first. His words, when they came, were
scarcely comprehensible.

' Wonderful, wonderful," he said ; and
again, " most wonderful, wonderful."

Of what are you speaking ? " asked
Stephen in surprise.

I was thinking aloud, and the subject
of my thoughts was my ward, Mary la."

How is she wonderful ? " asked
Stephen.

In many ways ; the particular oue of
which I was thinking was her power of
description."

How do you mean ? "

She told me last night that she had
been explaining to you in the morning
how she came to live with me."

Yes."

"Did she tell you anything about her
future prospects ?"

"Not anything."

"Nothing about her literary aspirations
? "

Not a word. Has lie such aspirations
? " 

'' What a strange creature she is ! I
expect that one day she will be a great
writer."

Ah ! that is interesting. What makes
you think so ? "

*' The extraordinary power of writing
which she has even now."

Is that really so ? Has she already
written anything ? "

*' She has written a great deal ; sketches
of the country and people around about
here. You were expressing surprise
yesterday at breakfast that she should
care to talk to the tramps and other people
whom she occasionally meets in her
rambles. If you saw the masterly studies
she makes of these chance meetings you
would be amazed."

Really, if she has such great talents,

is it not a pity she does not enij)loj them
in her own rank of life ? "

'' She is a student, and a very promising
one, of human nature," smiling rather
whimsically as he spoke. *' It is marvellous
to find such power in a girl of her age."
Has she published anything yet ? "
*' Her last paper was so good, I insisted
upon sending it to that new magazine,
Men and Manners ; it was accepted, and
she got paid for it, which after all is
the great test."

*' Is it known that she writes ? "
It is a profound secret between herself
and me. I have just betrayed it,
but you must let it go no further."
What line will she take up ? "
'' Fiction ; she is equally strong in
dialogue."

Mr. Knox was silent, digesting this
intelligence ; then he said, 

VOL. I. F

Her experience has been singularly
varied for so young a girl."

Yes, you are right ; she led a strange
life before she came here. How well I
remember the first time I saw her ! It
was the first time I went to the Countess's
rooms, and there were a great many other
people there, all men. The Countess was
very beautiful, a tiny, fairy-like creature,
and in the course of the evening a dispute
arose between her and one of her guests,
concerning some trinket of which he had
got possession, and which he would not give
up. At last I remember he put it on the
top of a cabinet, of no great height, but
quite beyond her reach. Another guest
seeing her impatience, rose to get it for her,
and at the same time made some jesting
remark about her want of height. I had
not then got accustomed to the tone which
prevailed in the Countess's rooms, and

I was wondering a little at the whole affair,
when I heard a girl's voice, saying, 

' What would be the use of your
being tall, Count, if mama were tall
too?"

*' I turned and saw Martha standing in
the doorway. She had been on the river,
and wore a boating-dress of white serge,
and a sailor-hat, which for some reason,
which she never would tell me, she always
called a Moses. We made friends at once,
and when I found how bad a life she was
leading for a girl of her age and character,
I had some serious talk with her mother,
and persuaded her to let Martha come
home with me. She was really very fond
of her daughter, and willing to do the best
for her that lay in her power."

Her coming must have made a great
change to your daughters."

I am sorry to have to say that, on
F 2

that occasion, my slaughters disappointed
me very much."

** She has prejudiced him against his
own children," thought Mr. Knox indignantly.
*' She tells me," he went od,
'' that she has relations living in England."

"Yes, Sir Edward Goldengay, of Court-field,
is her uncle. She has never expressed
any wish to make their acquaintance,
and so I have never pressed the
matter, though I once proposed it'*

By this time they had turned, and were
walking back to the house. As they went
up the garden, Ethel came out to meet
them, saying, 

Here you are at last, papa. Mr. Hen
has been waiting nearly half an hour to
see you."

Mr. Hennn was the vicar of Stanedale,
rather a pompous little man, and a source
of great amusement to Miss Goldengay."

Mr. Ricliardson went into the house,
exchanged greetings with his guest, and
then looked round the room, saying, 

' Where is Mary la ? "

'* I think she is in the study," answered
Ethel.

' Go and tell her Mr. Hennn is here ; she
will like to see him."

The girls could not understand why
their father always sent for Martha when
]mr. Hennn called ; for he bore her no
affection. This evening he went so far
as openly to protest, 

''Do not disturb Miss G-oldengay at
her studies, I beg. I am very glad to
hear she has some definite employment;
it would be a great pity to interrupt her."

She is not studying," said Mr. Richardson
; " she is only doing a little writing forme.
Go, Ethel," again turning to his
daughter.

Martha came at once ; lie came in with
a smile and shining eyes. She knew the
vicar held her in honest, upright abhorrence,
and it was a source of pure pleasure to her
to inflict her presence upon him. Marion
knew all this, and she was resolved that
this evening Martha should not have her
way, so she kept the conversation in her
own hands.

"How do you like Mr. Vernon?" she
asked, and then turned to Stephen with an
explanation : '' Mr. Vernon is our new
curate, it is his first curacy, and Mr.
Hennn has had to teach him a great deal."

"Vernon?" echoed the vicar, stroking
his chin, "I really don't know what weare
to do with him ; a most painful thing
happened this morning at Lake Foot.
Perhaps you have heard of it."

No one had heard, and all were eager to
know to what he referred.

It was the christening of Mrs. Coward's
first baby, and as it was a private ceremony
at the house, I thought it rather a good
opportunity for Vernon to have his first
christening. I went over the service most
carefully with him, and told him not to be
nervous, it was a very simple affair. However,
the baby was restless, and I suppose
he got flurried ; at any rate, he let the
child fall, and it was killed."

The silence which followed his words
was broken by peals of laughter from
Martha. She laughed as though she were
never going to stop ; laughter of the
gods, without a false note in it, clear and
melodious and soft, as delicious as the
song of a bird or the rippling of the
beck outside. Marion flushed with annoyance,
and her voice rang sharply as she
said, 

Martha, how can you laugh ? I wonder

you are not ashamed. I never heard anything
so sad ; the dear little baby, and poor
Mrs. Coward  I am very, very sorry for
her."

Ethel joined in the chorus, and Martha
continued to laugh. She was sitting on
the couch and she leaned her head against
the cushions and shook with laughter.
Mr. Richardson had prudently placed himself
in a part of the room where his eyes
could not meet hers. Mr. Hennn looked at
her severely, and said, 

I am both shocked and grieved at
your behaviour. Miss Golden gay."

'* I wish you would go out of the room,"
said Marion in tones of unmistakable anger.
'* It is painful to us all to hear you.
am utterly at a loss to imagine why you
laugh. I am sure when one pictures the
scene to oneself  "

That is just what I am doing," said

Mary la. '' When I picture the scene 
AVhat 1-9 the matter, Mr. Knox?"

Every one turned to look at Mr. Knox,
who stood with colourless cheeks, slightly
parted lips, and distended eyes fixed upon
Martha.

If you must stare in that way," she
went on, as he said nothing, " why not
choose some one else to stare at ? "

He roused himself as she finished
speaking, and made an effort to regain
his usual manner, but the attempt was
such a failure that Marion said with some
anxiety, 

I am afraid you do not feel well, Mr.
Knox."

'' No," said Stephen, still with an effort ;
'' I do not feel well,  a sudden pain at my
head. I am subject to it ; it will pass off ;
please think no more about it."

He spoke almost as if he were dreaming,

and when lie had finished, he raised his
hand, not to his head, but to his heart.

*you must have something," said
Marion. " What do you generally
take?"

Soothing, nothing, thank you. It will
pass off; I generally leave it alone."

That cannot be wise. If you neglect
it now, it may come on again in the night,
when you will be more helpless."

He was obliged to submit. Mr. Hennn
took a hurried departure, and was accompanied
to the door by Mr. Richardson and
Martha, neither of whom returned to the
drawing-room.

Mr. Knox went to his room early, and
was entreated to ring for his breakfast in
the morning, if he did not feel perfectly
restored.

He was glad to be alone, glad to have
drawn the bolt between himself and interruption,

glad to be able to look as lie
felt. He crossed the room and leaned out
of the window, looking at the lake as it
lay in the moonlight. The beck rushed
b}, filing the air with its murmur, and
somewhere in the distance he heard a dog
barking. There were no other sounds to
break the train of his thoughts, and he
found no difficulty in fixing them upon
that one moment in his life which he just
then found full of interest. He went back
three years, to the summer in which,
following the advice of his medical man,
he had taken a short walking-tour. He
remembered reaching a little village  a
slight effort of memory brought back the
name to him  Hay garth. He remembered
that he strolled into the church, went up
into the organ-loft, and fell asleep. He
had partially wakened from his sleep to
the consciousness that a marriage was

going on beneath "him ; he had been fully
roused a few minutes later by a peal of
laughter coming from the churchyard.
He had thought at the time that he had
never before heard such laughter, and that
if he ever heard it again, he would be able
to identify the bride of that summer
morning. Three years had gone by since
that morning, and he bad completely forgotten
the incident ; to-night he had heard
it again.

No, he told himself, it was impossible.
He rose from the window-ledge and began
to pace up and down the room. As
certainly as he told himself that the
laughter he had heard this evening, and
that he had heard in Hay garth Church
were not the same, so certainly did he
know that they were. There could not be
two such sounds  they were one and the
same.

Then was lie to suppose that Marjla
Groldengay was married ? It seemed
exceedingly probable. She had spoken of
her long walks, and Haygarth was, he
knew, only ten miles from Stanedale. It
would explain, too, her midnight ramble.
]o doubt she had been to pay a stolen
visit to her husband ; she had said she took
such walks often, and then had changed
the subject as though unwilling to pursue
it any further. There was, too, a careless
self-possession in her manner, which Miss
Richardson, in spite of her grave dignity,
did not always show. He had observed it
from the beginning, and after hearing her
story, had attributed it to the way in
which her earlier life had been spent ; now
it appeared in its proper light as the
manner natural to a married woman.

So far everything seemed in favour of
her marriage, yet a little reflection showed

Mm that lie Had nothing but the vaguest
supposition to go upon. Because he felt
absolutely certain that Miss Goldengay
had been the person whose laughter had
made such an impression upon him, why
should he suppose that she had been
married? She might very easily have
been in Haygarth Churchyard when the
newly-married couple left the church. If
she saw anything in their manner or
appearance to excite her amusement, he
felt sure that no consideration would
prevent her giving free vent to it. That
was very much the more probable solution
of the mystery. And after all, what did it
matter to him if she should prove to be
married ? He did not like her, she was
deficient in all the qualities which he most
admired in a woman; if she had done
such a thing it did not matter to him;
except as it concerned Marion  there it

touched him and became a matter in wliicli
he had a right to judge and to act. He
wondered if Mr. Richardson knew who
the husband was, and why his wife did not
live with him. Then he told himself he
was a fool to trouble his head about the
matter, and went to bed.

When he awoke the next morning he
found that many of his suspicions had
vanished, and when he went downstairs
and saw Martha, heard her voice, felt the
touch of her hand, and watched her free,
unfettered movements, he began to feel that
it was absurd to suspect such a girl of such
a deed. She was candour and transparency
itself : was it likely that a girl who would
tell her whole story without reserve to a
man whom four-and-twenty hours earlier
she had never seen, could keep such a
secret as a hidden marriage?

After breakfast he went out, with Marion

and Ethel. It was not a picnic,  the
Richardson did not care for picnics,
unless a large party packed themselves
into two or three carriages, and, supported
by a proper number of hampers of good
things, drove to a place where there was
something to see, ruins, or a queer old
church, or a farmhouse with a panelled
room. At the same time they looked upon
a walk without an object as a meaningless
waste of precious hours. So to-day they
had arranged to walk to a certain farm,
drink a glass of milk, carry home a basket
of eggs, and get back in time for their early
dinner. Mr. Richardson had gone away
for the day on business, and Martha had
roamed off alone in quite another direction,
with her little luncheon-basket in her hand.
Mr. Knox after a little fencing led the
conversation to Miss Goldengay, and proceeded
to put some leading questions about

her. He was astonished at the acrimonious
tone in which he was answered, and when
he contrasted it with the half-cynical, half-humorous
way in which Martha had spoken
of her guardian's daughters, he felt for the
first time a stirring at his heart in favour
of Martha. Later in the day, when he was
alone in the sunny, fragrant garden, he
thought of it again, and once more vague,
shadowy doubts began to creep into his
mind. He thought he was beginning to
understand the girl's nature, and as he
thought of what he had heard about her,
the idea of this marriage became more and
more likely. A little reflection showed
him that he must have been at Haygarth
very shortly after the death of Martha' s
mother. Ethel had said how careless
and reckless she was, unmindful of consequences,
and concerned only with the
present hour. What might not a girl like
VOL. I. G

that do in a moment of despondency, perhaps
after a skirmish with these girls ? He
grew more and more uncomfortable, half-blaming,
half-excusing her, mitil, hearing
the gate open and shut, he looked up and
saw her coming towards him.

Where are the girls ? " she asked,
pausing when she was near him.

He frowned. Of course he was going
to ask Marion to marry him, but there
was no need to suppose that they must
be always together, as Miss Goldengay
seemed to think.

They have gone to a meeting at the
Rectory," he replied.

To deliberate upon what must be done
with Mr. Vernon, no doubt ; there is sure to
be a committee meeting about it. If I see
him I shall advise him to flee the country ;
his life will not be worth a moment's
purchase if he meets Mrs. Coward."

He preserved a displeased silence, and his
sympathy again swung round to the side of
the other girls. All Miss Goldengay's conversation
was light and flippant, utterly
slanting in ballast and principle. He
beo:an to think her marriage right have
been the result of causes very different
from those he had imagined. Out of pure
recklessness and lightness of heart, she
might have got married and come home
again; perhaps her husband had sent her
home. The more he thought, the more he
disliked her whole manner and conversation
; he regretted that so ugly and ill-conditioned
a mind should be lodged in so
beautiful a body. He felt his severity relax
when he thought how very beautiful she
was, and then he was disgusted at his own
weakness, and felt quite glad when Marion
and Ethel returned. Yet he felt a little
impatient, and glad Martha was not present,
G 2

when they told him that " Mr. Vernon's
misfortune" had been discussed, and it
had been arranged that for the present, at
any rate, he should be entrusted with no
more christening.

CHAPTER Y.

I'll have some proof."

A WEEK passed before Mr. Knox could
make up this mind to take any steps
towards investigating the mystery which
seemed to surround Mary la, and during
that week he changed his opinion about
this marriage every day. There were
times when he felt almost ashamed of his
suspicions, and as though to suppose such
a creature as Miss Goldengay at that
moment appeared to be, could be guilty of
getting secretly married, was like crediting
Minerva with a nineteenth-century flirtation.
Again, she appeared in a light
which made him say within himself that

she was capable of anything, and that a
secret marriage in a remote country
cliurcli was but a small way of gauging
lier powers. If lie really were married,
he believed that she would do anything to
regain her liberty. Liberty seemed as the
breath of life to her : to spend her time on
the boundless moors, her view uninterrupted
by walls and hedges, gloveless and
hatless, a small supply of the simplest food
in her basket, seemed to constitute her
idea of happiness. She needed neither
books nor work to pass the time  she was
content if she might spend long hours
sitting or lying upon the heather, watching
the great white clouds float through the
sky, melt away, form again out of nothing,
and throw fantastic shadows on the hills.
She said that when she had looked for a
little time at the clouds, the difficulties in
believing that the world was created out

of nothing, completely vanished. It was
only in the house that she was restless
and wanted '' something to do." As soon
as she felt a roof over her head, and four
walls enclose her, she changed : Mr. Knox,
watching her, thought that in the restricted
atmosphere of a house, her resplendent
beauty became almost imperceptibly
paler.

During this week, Stephen became
more intimate with Miss Goldengay. He
thought she was revealing her nature to
him and he felt mingled pleasure and pain,
and a growing desire to know the truth
about her. He was not very happy. He
was oppressed with a vague uneasiness
which often made him sigh and knit his
brows, and feel disinclined to enjoy the
society of Marion and Mary la at the same
time. He was angry with himself for
having made the discovery that sometimes

Marion's dignity looked stiff beside
Martha's careless ease. At last he made
up his mind to go to Haygarth and find
out whether he had been worrying
himself needlessly, or whether Miss
Goldengay had been guilty of all he
feared and suspected. At last, after much
private consultation of the Ordnance map,
and a little mental calculation, his plan
was ripe for execution, and he took the
first opportunity of carrying it out.

'' Is there not a place near here called
Brigg ? " he asked Marion one morning at
breakfast.

It is not exactly near here; ifc is about
thirty miles away."

'' Oh," he said dubiously, '' I thought
it was nearer." Then after a moment,
spent apparently in consideration, he went
on, 

How do you get there ? By train ? "

'' Yes; I think there are trains, papa,"
raising her voice a little ; '' there are trains
to Brigg, are there not ? "

Mr. Richardson had been carrying on a
low-voiced conversation with Martha. At
his daughter's question, he looked up
rather absently, saying, 

"Eh, my dear ? What did you say ? "

But Martha' s quick ears had caught the
subject of conversation, and she asked, 

What about Brigg ? Who wants to
go to Brigg ?"

Mr. Knox fancied that her voice already
held a tone of suspicion, and he
answered, 

I merely asked how far it is from
here."

'' Do you want to go there ? "

'' I have a note from a friend of mine,"
tapping the table with a letter which he
had received that morning, " and he asks

me to make him a sketch of an old bridge
at Brigg. But he seems under the
impression that the place is close to
here."

'' With a little trouble you can go by
train," said Martha ; '* but it will need a
little contrivance to arrange it, because
the trains to Brisfg run for their own
convenience, not that of the public. You
can't go and come back in one day."

I am sorry. If it had been within a
walk now  "

"There is a comfortable inn there,"
said Mr. Richardson. " You might go
one day and come back the next."

If you will allow me," turning to
Marion.

It was found on investigation that
there was a train to Brigg in about two
hours, and by it Mr. Knox took his
departure. He felt some excitement as

lie sat in the slowly-progressing market
train. He had resolved to carry out
the programme he had sketched, so that
he could not go to Haygarth until the
following day.

It was still early when he reached Hay-garth.
The church was a small building
which might easily have been overlooked
by any one not acquainted with the village.
His heart beat fast as he walked along the
road and recognized things which had
caught his attention three years before.

He inquired for the clerk's house, and
was directed to the smithy. He explained
what he wanted, and, after overcoming
some scruples on the part of the blacksmith,
was sent in the company of his
daughter to the church.

Mr. Knox prided himself upon never forgetting
a face he had once seen, and he
felt certain that the man who had just

AN ENTHUSIAST.

received him was not the man who had let
him out of the church in which he had
been locked up. To make quite certain,
he asked the young woman walking at his
side, 

*' How long has your father been clerk
here?"

"About two years, ever sin' the old
man died'

One witness of the marriage removed
by death," he thought. " And the clergyman,"
he went on, '' is he dead too ? "

*aye," replied his guide indifferently,
"he is dead too."

They had now reached the church ; she
fitted the key into the lock, pushed open
the door, and stood aside for Mr. Knox to
go in.

He stood still and looked round before
going into the vestry. How well he remembered
it, the bare whitewashed walls.

the flat papered ceiling, and windows of
greenish glass, the railed-off space which
served as a chancel, the altar covered with
an old and shabby altar-cloth, and bare
of all ornaments ! Was it possible, he
thought, as he stood and looked, that here
Marjla Goldengaj had uttered her marriage
vows, and apparently disregarded
them ever since ! He was roused by the
voice of his companion telling him that
she had got out the registers ; would he
please to come and look.

He had merely told the girl that the
marriage he wanted to find had taken
place in Jane or July, three years earlier.
He himself knew the month, and even after
considerable calculation, the very day of
the ceremony, and he quickly turned over
the pages of the book with a curious feeling
of mingled hope and fear that the entry
he sought might not be there.

But it was. At the top of a page there
was the customary entry, and it Alas
signed " Martha Groldengay." He turned
quite cold at the sight ; there was a singing
in his ears, and a strange, confused
feeling in his head. He leaned against the
roughly whitewashed window-sill, upon
which the book lay open before him, and
looked out of the window without seeing
anything. For a few minutes he was
scarcely conscious of where he was.

After a time he roused himself, and
took a slip of paper from his pocket-book.
A few days before, he had, with this expedition
in view, engaged Martha in a
contest of penmanship, and so possessed
himself of her signature. He now took it
out, and compared it with the writing in
the book. They were the same. In spite
of one or two little differences of detail,
there could not be a shadow of a doubt

that tliesame hand liacl written both names,
and the hand which had written the name
in the book had never trembled.

Then for the first time he looked at the
name of the bridegroom  Maurice Wings
It was unknown to him ; he had
never seen or heard it before, and he stood
mechanically repeating the two names,
'' Mary la Goldengay, Maurice Whitfield."

He was roused by a movement on the
part of his guide, who stood at a Httle
distance.

'have you found what you wanted,
sir?" she asked as he rose from his Meaning'
attitude against the window-ledge.

'* Yes, I thank you," he replied, shutting
the book as he spoke; and she was
astonished at the tone in which he spoke,
and still more at the whiteness of his
face.

He lingered in the vestry as she put the

registers away, and said, almost as if he
did not know what he was saying,

*this seems a very quiet place; I
suppose you do not see many strangers ? "

'eh, no," was her answer; "nobody
hardly ever comes here. You see there's
no railway, and the roads are bad, and ita
far cry to Brigg, except for those that
have to coral and go."

'' But there's Stanedale; do you never
have people over from Stanedale ? "

She endeavoured to express her astonishment
by means of parted lips and widely-distended
eyes.

Stanedale ! sir," she repeated. " Why
Stanedale is a matter of ten miles from
here, and no road at all, as you may call a
road ; you have to pick your way over the
hills and through ma ay a bog. Nay ! " with
a short laugh, ''I ne'er heard tell of any
Stanedale folk coming here."

'' Have you lived here long?" was his
next question.

Only since father was made clerk.
Before then we lived at Bristol"

After a few more questions he left the
church, and a little later the village, being
resolved rather to walk back to Brigg, and
take the train thence to Stanedale, than to
risk himself upon such a road as the
woman had described. If Mary la had
walked from Stanedale she must have
been eager to be married.

He had thought, that when once he
knew the truth about this marriage his
mind would be at rest, and he would know
how to act. It was not so at all. As he
travelled back to Stanedale, he found that
he was painfully undecided. Did Mr.
Richardson know, or did he not ? Ought
he to tell or to keep silence ? He could
not decide, and when he reached Stanedale,

VOL. I. H

he had arrived at no further conclusion
than that he would have an explanation
with Martha the very next day.

It vas still early in the afternoon when
he got back, but he did not see Martha
until tea-time, when she came into the
room with a careless, happy expression,
which to Stephen seemed to denote
practised hypocrisy. Full of his new discovery,
her indifference irritated him
beyond endurance, and though, when he
first came in, he had felt that the most
distant allusion to his morning's occupation
would have covered him with confusion,
the sight of Miss Groldengay's calm unconsciousness
that she was treading on the
edge of a precipice, nerved him to mention
the subject himself.

It was very easy to lead up to it. He
was questioned about his expedition, and
it came in quite naturally to say, 

I found I had more time on my hands
than I wanted, so this morning I walked
over to Haygarth. What an old-world
little place it is, have you ever been

there?"

He included everybody in his question.
Mr. Richardson was not attending, and
gave no answer, Marion and Ethel said no,
they had never been, they did not think
there was any road, or anything to justify
so great an effort when you reached the
village. Martha answered calmly, 

Yes, I have been there, it is a very
curious place."

'' When have you been ? " asked Ethel,
in surprise.

I went several times when I first came
to live here. It must be three years since
I was there last."

*' How did you get there ? "

I walked over the hills."
H 2

*' Did you ever go into the church?"
asked Stephen.

Oh, yes," she replied smiling, and the
smile became a laugh.

'why do you laugh?" he asked suspiciously.


I was laughing at the recollection of
an absurd incident, which happened to me
there."

She could be speaking only of her
marriage, and she called it " an absurd
incident," and laughed as she spoke.
Stephen felt his blood begin to boil.

'' It is seldom, I should think, that
churches are the scenes of absurd incidents,"
he said stiffly ; and Mr. Richardson
said, 

'' Tell us about it."

Nay," she replied, helping herself to
some plums as she spoke, '' you might not
think it absurd, and nothing is more chilling

than to tell a tale at which nobody
laughs."

I should imagine," said Stephen, " that
you are often in the position of finding
amusement in what appears perfectly
serious to other people."

I am so happily constituted," was her
reply.

Mr. Richardson began to laugh, he
openly encouraged her, and Mr. Knox was
too much disgusted to say any more. He
began to find conversation with Miss
Goldengay a little difficult, she turned
everything into a jest ; it was his habit to
take the most palpable jest in perfect
seriousness. He mentally resolved that on
the morrow he would not spare her. But
she went on talking about Haygarth and
asked, 

How did you get home ? "

I came from Brigg. The woman who

showed me the church said there was no
proper road from Hay garth here."

It is bad certainly, but not impassable.
I walked from here."

"And how did you get back ?" unable
to repress all signs of his curiosity.

She laughed again, saying, 

I thought I never should get back, but
I walked the way I went."

'' I thought I never should get back,"
that of course referred to her marriage ; he
wondered at her audacity in talking about
it, and was just going to reply, when he
was interrupted by a question from Marion.
She thought Stephen and Martha had
talked together quite long enough ; besides,
their conversation was interesting to nobody.
She did not see how they themselves
could be interested in such pointless
questions and answers.

All the rest of the evening Stephen felt

irritable and unsettled. The whole family-had
assembled in the drawing-room. Mr.
Richardson had fallen asleep over the
newspaper; Marion and Ethel were busy
with their fancy work, Marjla was at the
piano, playing softly Polish songs and
dances, German '' Volkslieder,*' and old
waltzes which she remembered from the
day when lie had lived in Vienna and
Dresden. Marion presently proposed that
Mr. Knox should read to them, and he got
a volume of essays, and began at once,
glad of something which should replace in
his mind that endless repetition of " Martha
Goldengay, Maurice Whitfield."

CHAPTER YI.

' Are you fast married 1 "

The next morning Stephen felt excited
and nervous. He had a great undertaking
to carry out, and lie wished to do it
worthily. He had spent a great deal of
time, in the night before going to sleep,
and this morning after waking unusually
early, in reviewing the situation and
arranging how to open the attack. He
felt that it was impossible to count upon
Martha, he could not tell how she would
behave. She might take the news that
her secret had been discovered with composure,
or he might find that her light
humour was only a mask to hide violent

passions. Would she stand revealed as a
deceiver, or as deceived ? perhaps she
carried an aching heart under her gay
manner. He did not know what would
happen ; he was decided on only one
point, that the explanation should not be
delayed.

Full of his plan, he turned to Martha,
during breakfast, to ask, 

'' Are you going to spend the day out of
doors, Miss Goldengay ? "

Martha replied that such was her intention.


"In that case," he went on rather
hastily, " may I go with you to wherever
you are going ? "

He knew that he was making an unprecedented
request, and his manner ashe
spoke was cold and constrained, which
was his way of showing embarrassment.

There was a pause as he spoke; everyone

was astonished. Marion drew Herself
up, and her mouth looked all at once as if
it were of iron ; Ethel raised her eyebrows
and drew down the corners of her lips ;
even Mr. Richardson looked up for a
moment, and Marjla's face took an odd,
whimsical look which it wore at times.

' You may come if you wish to," she said
at last, " but I am going a very long way,
and on a very bad road. I know you are
susceptible to bad roads."

Where are you going ? '' asked Mr.
Richardson.

'' To Ravensghyll Force."

'' That is almost too far, it is nine miles
each way."

"I shall do it very well ; but you," turning
to Mr. Knox, "will be half dead when
we get back."

Nevertheless, I shall, with your permission,
venture," he replied; for it will

be easily understood that, in proportion
as she showed unwillingness for his society,
he became more resolute to accompany
her.

Just as you please," she said indifferently,
when he persisted ; " of course, you
can turn back when you feel inclined."

When breakfast was over, Marion and
her sister went into the drawing-room,
and Marion stood looking out of the
window, and saying nothing. Ethel
moved about the room, busy in arranging
some flowers she had gathered before
breakfast, but neither did she say anything.


Before either had spoken, they were
joined by Mr. Knox. He glanced from
one to the other of the two girls, but they
were both silent; only Marion's figure
seemed to grow taller and straighter. To
break a rather awkward silence, he said, 

How the weather keeps up ! It is
a magnificent day for spending on the
hills."

Yes," replied Ethel, who was in every
way quicker and more impulsive than her
sister, " we had thought of going into
those woods I was telling you about
the other day ; but now, of course, we
must stay at home."

'' You are very good to plan so many
pleasures for me, but we can go another
time ; I hope we shall have more such days
as this."

It does not signify," said Marion,
turning her face, from which every vestige
of feeling had vanished, towards them.
*' Ethel was foolish to mention the plan
at all. I hope that while you are here,
you will think only of your own amusement,
and enjoy yourself in the way you
like best."

She spoke coldly and distantly, almost
as if lie had been a stranger to her.

** Do not speak in that tone, I beg
of you," he said, moving nearer to her,
and making an effort to meet her eyes
fully. " You are annoyed that I asked
Miss Goldengay to let me go with her ;
but, I assure you, you are mistaken if you
suppose I prefer  "

Marion interrupted him with a little
chill laugh, saying, 

There would be nothing remarkable in
your preferring Martha's society. I know
that she is more interesting than Ethel or
I ; but I thought"

She paused for a moment. Mr. Knox,
feeling almost equally angry with her and
Martha, took advantage of her silence to
say,

I assure you that you misunderstand
me ; if I did not feel more grateful than I

can say for all the kindness which has been
shown me in this house, I should be the
most thankless of men. I must ask you to
believe that I am not anticipating any
enjoyment from my walk with Miss
Goldengay ; but it is necessary I should
speak to her sometime, and the sooner
the better, I think."

I confess I do not understand," rather
drily.

I know you do not, and I cannot explain
just now,  I must ask you to take my word
for it."

He spoke with a sudden assumption of
candour which would have made Mary la
laugh, but which brought a rather less
iron compression of Marion's lips.

'' 1 do not understand what jou can
have to say to her," she said slowly, but
less distantly than before. " Does she
know what it is ?"

'' As far as I am aware, she has no idea,"
he reeked, longing for something to
happen which would put an end to the
conversation.

Something did happen. Martha came
in ready for walking, and saying, 

*' If you are ready, Mr. Knox, we will
go. The basket is in the hall ; you can
carry it."

Stephen exchanged a few parting words
with Marion, and then followed Martha into
the garden.

She was apparently in one of her most
communicative moods, fresh air and sunshine
acted upon her like a charm, and
she appeared ready to talk to any one out
of pure gladness of heart. They had not
gone far when she stopped an old woman
they met, and accosted her with '* Good-morning,
Mrs. Mason, how are you
to-day ? "

Only middling, Miss Goldengay, T
can't say more."

I am sorry for that. What is the
matter? you seemed very well the last
time I saw you."

Well, you see. Miss, there's Annie come
to stay with us while Jem is in the hospital."


Annie ? that is your daughter-in-law,
is it not ? You do not seem fond of
her."

I can't say I am, Miss. I often wonder
what made our Jem marry her, for she's
that vulgar ! 1 always say we're vulgar
enough, but I'm sure Annie's ten times
worse."

Martha's eyes gleamed with amusement ;
but she bit her lips to hide a smile, and said
gravely, 

That is certainly a great pity. I know
nothing more uncomfortable than to be

obliged to live with people more vulgar
than ourselves."

*' I wouldn't say you were vulgar, Miss'*
replied the woman impartially ; '' I've
always said you were a real lady, and so
have all the Stanedale folk ! "

You are very kind, and I am much
obliged to you," said Martha, and then
she wished Mrs. Mason good-morning, and
walked on with Stephen, who said, 

What an insufferable old woman !
How I do dislike the lower orders."

*' I daresay, if we were to change places,
they would dislike us equally, " said
Martha serenely.

'' I don't understand what pleasure you
can find in talking to them," he went
on almost crossly.

''Oh," she answered, 'they are human,
they have that in common with us. Some
of their ways are strikingly like ours.

VOL. I. I

There is an old man who Ives here, and is
looked up to as a great authority on the
weather. I met him once when I was
on one of my expeditions and asked his
opinion on the weather. Would it rain or
keep fine ? He gazed all around, and
looked fixedly at the clouds ; then he
gave utterance to the oracular sentiment,
Well, Miss, you may have rain, or you may
not.' I do not know how, even in our
position, artful dodging could have been
better illustrated'*

Which had you," asked Stephen, with
some show of interest.

'' I hadn't."

They went on in silence. Stephen did
not feel conversationally inclined He was
beginning to feel some nervousness about
what he wanted to say, and he wondered
how he would introduce the subject. The
road along which they were walking also

absorbed his attention. It was long since
they had left the village or even isolated
bouses behind them. The road, after rising
gradually, had reached a wide elevated
moor, across which it wound. On every
side rose bare and lofty hills with no sign
of life upon them; a few stunted, wind-swept
firs were all the trees which had found
courage to exist in this barren region. The
rushing of a stream, somewhere out of
sight, was the only sound which fell upon
the ears. So far as Mr. Knox could see,
he and his companion were the only living
creatures in this region of silence and desolation.
Since they had parted from Mrs.
Mason they had met no one, and he calculated
that by this time they must have
walked at least six miles.

Mary la, too, had grown silent ; she was
walking at an easy, regular pace, neither
swiftly nor slowly, which must enable her
I 2

to walk an immense distance without
feeling fatigued. She lead never had on
any gloves, and by this time she had taken
off her hat, and swung it from her hand.
The sun hinted on her golden hair, making
a kind of glory round her head, her
black eyes were raised to the hills, and her
lips a little parted as if to drink in the
scented moorland air. There was an
expression on her face, which only came
there when she was out of doors, or,
having just come in, was still under the
influence of the sun and wind.

He watched her for some time with much
curiosity. She walked differently from
English girls ; even her gown, though it
was only cotton, seemed to hang upon her
figure in a way he had never noticed in
the dress of any other woman. She
walked in silence for some time, and then
she began to repeat half to herself, 

Return, content ! for fondly I pursued
Even when a child the streams unheard, unseen,
Through tangled woods, impending rocks between ;
Or, free as air, with flying inquest view'd
The sullen reservoirs, whence their bold brood,
Pure as the morning, fretful, boisterous, keen,
Green as the salt sea-billows, white and green ,
Poured down the hills a choral multitude."

He lead never heard lier quote poetry
before, and he was surprised to find her
familiar with Wordsworth, but he merely
asked, 

'' Where does this road lead to ? "

'' To the end of the world," was her
reply. *' Wait a minute, and you will
see."

They were climbing a steep and stony
bit of road as she spoke. When they had
reached the top of the rise, she pointed
before her, saying, 

"Now look."

They stood on very high ground, and the
hills towered above them on all sides. On

the right, the mountains descended, with a
grand, smooth sweep, sheer into the little
green valley lying at their feet. Straight
in front rose a rampart of mighty mountains,
beyond which only the imagination
could reach. It was indeed the end of
the world. Their path wound down
into this valley, and by the side of the
road rushed and roared a clear, cold
mountain torrent. Martha pointed to it,
repeating, 

"Pure as the mornings fretful, boisterous, keen,
Green as the salt sea-billows, white and green."

She stood in silence for a few minutes,
then she laughed a little, saying, 

'*A year or two ago there was a
scheme for running a railroad through this
valley."

"Are we going down there?" asked
Stephen

Yes, and then up the hill on the other
side to the Force."

By the time they reached the magnificent
waterfall, known as Raven sghyll Force,
Stephen was exhausted and fainting for
something to eat ; but Martha would not
have lunch until she had been down at the
foot of the waterfall, and seen the column
of water fall a hundred feet into the deep,
black pool below. It was rather a difficult
place to get to, an awkward descent
over broken, slippery rocks ; and, as
Stephen watched the girl's progress, he
could not help admiring the light, graceful
way in which she let herself go, almost
letting herself fall from one level to another,
and never making the least false
step. She was perfectly at ease, and
Stephen found himself thinking of Marion's
dignity, and of how out of place it would
have been here.

They had finished lunch, and Martha had
bathed her hands and her fingers, pink-tipped
with handling ripe strawberries, in
the stream below the Force. She now
leaned back upon the soft heather, apparently
quite happy with the sun streaming
down upon her, and the subdued thunder
of the Force in her ears. A dreamy look
had come upon her face; she seemed
scarcely conscious of her companion's
existence. He suddenly reminded her
of it.

'' Do you remember. Miss Groldengay,
why I asked to come here with you ? "

You did not tell me. I took you on
trust."

He had forgotten it was to Marion he
had said be must speak to Martha, and he
was annoyed that she had found him out
in a mistake at the very beginning.

I daresay you have been wondering,"

'' Into, I have not thought of it."

*' It was about my visit to Hajgartli
yesterday."

Oh, very well, suppose you begin."

It was not the first time I had been
there."

She said nothing, but he fancied the
expression of her face changed a little.
He found it rather a difficult subject to
get into, but he must go on now.

*' I was there three years ago."

He had laid a little emphasis on the last
three words, and after having said them,
he made a pause.

'' I daresay you did not find many
changes, though you seem to attach some
importance to the three years."

I found that the clergyman and clerk
were both new men since that time."

Had they been baptized ? " asked
Martha indifferently.

They were dead."

Yell, they were not friends of mine.
I don't even know what they were
called."

If I remember rightly, you said it was
three years since you had last been there."

How you beat about the bush ! I
wish you would come to the point. What
do you mean by these mysterious hints ? "

I think we were there at the same
time."

Did you see me ? "

No, I had never seen you ; but I had
heard you."

Heard me ! What in the name of
fortune do you mean ? This is as bad as
being peeped at from behind window -
curtains when I came in from a walk."

If you will allow me, I will tell you
what happened to me on my first visit to
Hay garth."

Tell, by all means ; I can't conceive
what mystery you have got in Land."

He told Iter the story and Martha
listened in silence, though not without an
occasional twitching of the lips. When
he had finished speaking, she looked at
him serenely and said, 

"Well?"

Well ? how well ? I do not think it
is weel] at all."

'' What happened next ? I suppose you
did not come all this way to tell me that
little tale."

*' I was sure I should recognize that
laughter if I ever heard it again."

And have you ever heard it again ? "

' I heard it the night you laughed at
Mr. Hennn's story about the curate."

Oh ! "with an expression of enlightenment,
" that was what made you look so
queer ; not a pain in your heart or head at

all. What a curious coincidence. May T
ask what conclusion you came to ? "

'' I should think you might guess ! "

Perhaps I might, but I should never
think of doing so. No woman in her
senses would hazard a guess at such a
point in such a story. I prefer that you
should tell me."

I naturally supposed that you had been
married."

'why?"

You must admit that I had solid
grounds to go upon."

'' What kind of grounds ? " she said
flippantly, " coffee grounds ? I don't see
why you should suppose any such thing ;
you had not even seen me."

Well, I did suppose it, and as T could
not rest in uncertainty, I went to Hay garth
again on purpose to find out the truth."

What did you do when you got there ? "

*' I went to the church and consulted the
register. I found out that, as I supposed,
you had been married on the day I first
visited Haygarth.

His voice was cold and hard from suppressed
excitement, and he waited eagerly
for her reply. She did not keep him
waiting.

You went over on purpose to do that ?
Your tale about wanting to sketch at
Brigg was a sham ? "

I did sketch at Brigg," he interposed
; but she went on without heeding
him, 

You looked through the registers
to find my name, to pry out what I had
chosen to keep private ? "

I went to verify my suspicions, and I
did verify them."

'' Sneak ! "

The blood rushed to Stephen's face, and

he sprang to his feet, almost choking with
rage.

"How dare you?" he cried at last,
glaring down at the girl as she sat among
the heather.

Sneak ! " she repeated, looking straight
up at him with eyes before which his
fell. " It is a pity," she went on, " that
you are not a member of the secret
police, if there is such an institution in
England."

"You have no right to speak like that,"
he said at last ; " I had reasons for what I
did."

"Oh, no doubt, reasons can always be
found for anything."

He said nothing, and after sitting in
silence for a few minutes, she began to
laugh purely and unrestrainedly the very
laughter which had twice already upset
Stephen's equanimity.

He looked at her almost with disgust.

I don't know what you see to laugh
at," he said at last.

*' I never thought that my laughter
would play me such a trick as that."

Then you confess it ? "

I don't see what would be the use of
denying it."

'* You were really married in that church
three years ago ? "

'' I really was."

What about your husband ? "

'well, what about him ? "

'' I know his name. I wrote it down in
my socket-book."

'' Was it Maurice Wingfield ? "

She pronounced the first name with a
soft little foreign accent, which made it
sound more musical than the English form.
He thought it would be agreeable to be
called Maurice, and addressed in such a

tone. Then be hardened his heart, and
said sternly, 

Where is he ? How is it that you do
not live with him? "

She smiled sweetly, saying, 

''Oh, that is my secret."

'' Will you not tell me ? "

'' No, indeed," shaking her head, and
the last word half lost in a ripple of
laughter.

'why not?"

If for no other reason, because you
want very much to know."

I can find out without your help," he
said, nettled at the tone in which she
spoke. " I tell you I have got his name."

She went into another fit of laughter,
und then said, 

Oh, find out by all means  if you can.
I see now why you told me that both the
clergyman and clerk are dead ; but it seems

to me that it is more to my advantage than
jours."

Does Mr. Richardson know of this ? "

Nobody knows but you, and I, and my
husband."

He is alive ? "

' I have never heard of his death."

Do you often see him ? "

I have not seen him once since we
parted soon after my marriage."

Why was that ? "

Just so, why was that ? "

I wish you would answer my questions
properly; it is a very serious matter."

I do not acknowledge your right to
ask me any questions at all, and the matter
is just as serious as I choose to make it."

In that case it is nothing more than a
jest."

' Yes, but a very good one ; the best in
the world."

VOL. I. K

'' You are the only girl I ever heard of
who considered her marriage a jest."

Perhaps I am the only girl whose
marriage was a jest."

'' What ! you were never married at
all ? "

Oh, yes, I was ; with book and bell, or
whatever else is necessary, by the clergyman
of the parish, and with the proper
number of witnesses."

If everything was in proper order, why
do you say it was a jest ? "

'' To tease you, you looked so ferocious.
You have no sense of humour."

I confess," he said drily, " that I do
not see the fun of the thing; to me it
appears a very serious matter."

So you said before. Good gracious ! "
she went on with lazy amusement. " What
a tragedy you make out of nothing ; you
are as bad as Marion."

Stephen frowned. He saw no reason
for mentioning Marion's name, and lie only
said coldly, 

'' Of course my duty in this matter is
quite plain ; you must see it as well as I
do."

'* Opinions differ on even the simplest
points. I should prefer you to tell me
what it is."

'' Since Mr. Richardson is still in ignorance,
it is my duty to tell him."

Oh ! " she cried, as though struck with
amazement, " you would surely never be so
foolish."

What do you mean by foolish ? "

You would be throwing away your
very strongest weapon against me."

You speak as if we were deadly
enemies."

I do not think we love one another
just now. You would probably hate me
K 2

more when your scheme of revenge had
failed."

''I don't know what you mean by
schemes of revenge. Perhaps you will
enlighten me."

Certainly. At this present time I am
known to nobody beyond Stanedale. If
people were told I was married, though of
course a due amount of open reprobation
would be displayed, there is not a girl in
the place who would not in her heart envy
me for being the heroine of such an adventure.
As for making ill-feeling between
me and Mr. Richardson, you could not do
such a thing. He would be hurt for a
time that I had kept a secret from him ;
but, after that, we should be better friends
than ever."

She paused, and he was silent, conscious
that there was much truth in what she
said.

You see," she went on, " if sou tell
now you gain nothing, but if you wait a
few years, perhaps even a shorter time, the
whole situation will have changed. I suppose
you do not imagine I am going to
live in Stanedale all my life, or that I shall
always be as unknown as I am now ? Ina
few years, I shall probably have made
a great name, and, as a necessary consequence,
a great many enemies. Then
will be the time to bring out your information
with effect. If you only bide your
time you will have me completely in your
power."

He listened in great surprise, for heat
once saw the importance of what she
said. He remembered Mr. Richardson's
prophecy, and he felt that, if it were ever
fulfilled, he would hold a terrible weapon
against her. But what had possessed
her to offer him such a weapon ? Was it

sheer recklessness and devil-may-care spirit,
or had she some deep plot hidden under her
careless words ? He stole a glance at her
face, but it did not suggest plots, and he
had only to remember the carelessness she
had shown about this very marriage in
question, to convince him that in making
this strange proposition, she was only
acting in accordance with her nature. But
he asked, 

What makes you say that ? If I were
an unscrupulous man I might make
terrible use of your admissions, and wreck
your whole life."

'' We are not now concerned with my
motives. It is quite possible that I have
none, and that I only tell you because I
rather enjoy the thought of having a
secret enemy."

Then it was, as he had supposed, pure
recklessness and want of ballast.

"Well," she said, after a short silence,
are you still determined to tell him ? "

He did not reply at once. When he
thought of her face and tone, when she
had called him sneak, he felt his blood
boil, and an almost irresistible impulse to
go and proclaim her secret to the four
winds of heaven. But when he reflected
upon the power which the possession of
this secret gave him, of the tacit influence
which his knowledge would enable him to
exercise over her, that within certain limits
she would be within his grasp, and under
his control, his head turned ; the temptation
was too strong for him, and he
replied, 

No, on second thoughts I shall not tell
him."

She did not speak, only smiled; a smile
of pleasure and self-satisfaction which he
could not understand.

Soon afterwards they set out on the
homeward way, and walked almost in
silence. Stephen was lost in thought, and
Martha appeared to be absorbed in watching
the afternoon lights and shadows on
the hills,  the shadows deeper, the sunlight
mellower than when they had passed in
the morning. When they reached home
Mr. Knox felt broken with fatigue, while
Martha looked as fresh and cool as when
she had left home. Her face wore its
usual aspect of careless content, and she
had a smile and a jest for Mr. Richardson
when they met in the garden. Stephen
watched her talking to her guardian, heard
her laughter ring out on the air, and
marvelled.

CHAPTER VII.

Love no man in good earnest."

The sun was again setting over Stanedale
Pike, and again Martha was watching it
from the moors on the other side of the lake.
This time she was not alone, Mr. Richardson
was with her; she had spent the whole
day out of doors, and he, knowing in which
direction she had gone, had come out to
meet her. They had been talking of many
things, and just now were silent, watching
the sun sink lower and lower in a stormy
pomp of crimson clouds which boded ill for
the morrow. The light thrown on the water
was almost lurid, the little clouds which
floated in the sky were all tinged with red.

It was earlier in the day than when
Martha had been here on the night of
Stephen Knox's arrival; there was plenty of
time to watch the sun sink behind the cairn
which crowned the Pike, and walk leisurely
home without incurring any reprimand
from Marion.

They were silent till the last scrap of
the crimson ball had disappeared behind
the mountain, and then Martha roused
herself from her reflections, and asked, 

When do you suppose the solemn
column is going to propose to Marion ? "

She spoke of Mr. Knox by a name she
had been moved to bestow upon him by
his unbending dignity, and Mr. Richardson
responded to it at once. He knit
his eyebrows, and ran his fingers through
his hair, as he replied, 

My dear child, I have been asking myself
that question for some little time now."

He has been here a month ; it is quite
time he came to the point, and went his
way."

Have you had enough of him ? "

Quite. I have studied him through
and through. I know him perfectly, and
T wish him gone with all my heart."

'' I am glad you can wish anything
with all your heart ; it argues a state of
wholeness and soundness which is encouraging."


You will not need encouragement on
that point as long as I am here. Stane-dale
does not present many opportunities
of taking that particular disease."

One at a time is enough."

So it is, if it be only strong enough.
So let us rather say the temptations of
Stanedale are wanting in strength, as well
as number."

But, to go back to the solemn column.

do you really think you have mastered Ms
nature ? "

I have felt sure of it since the day he
went with me to Ravensghyll,  do you
remember ? We had been talking, and
I gave him a decision to make. I asked
him a question, to which his answer had
to be yes or no. According to my
observation, he should have said no.
With his character, I felt sure he must
say it."

From your tone, I judge that you
were not disappointed'*

Ko," smiling, '' he came up to my
expectations. If he had known, though,
how much depended on it, I do not think
he would have said it."

What do you think of him? "

I think he would be a dangerous
enemy to have. He is vindictive, and he
cannot endure to be laughed at."

It is fortunate that Marion will never
feel tempted to laugh at him."

' Yes, what a solemn couple they will
make. They would balance a whole
nation of flimsy people like myself."

Mr. Richardson laughed, and took her
hand in his, fondling it gently, and looking
with pleasure at its smooth whiteness.

I have wanted to speak to you about
Knox and Marion," he said, " I am not
altogether easy about him."

You don't mean," turning and looking
straight at him, '' that you think he is
going to cry off ? "

I am afraid it looks very like it."

There was a somewhat lengthy pause,
and then she said in a tone of the profoundest
conviction, 

How unutterably disgusting ! "

Why disgusting ? "

It would upset all our plans. You

know low often we have imagined the time
when either one or both of them would be
married, and you and I should be left
alone to vagabonds as we chose, live
where we liked, and enjoy ourselves on the
Continent. You know we have looked
forward to it, and talked about it as a
thing sure to come in its own good time.
If our hopes are to be dashed to the
ground just when we thought they
were about to be realized, it will be too
provoking."

She spoke in a tone of genuine disappointment,
almost resentment, and Mr.:
Richardson looked rather relieved as he
heard her ; then he said, 

Is it possible that during the last
week or two you have buoyed yourself up
with such hopes ? ' '

*' I have not observed them lately ; I
have taken things for granted."

** It was a mistake, and I almost think
Marion is beginning to see it now."

*' Then you will have to have an explanation
with him. How exasperating !
I am very sorry for you."

"I suppose it is one of the pains
attached to the pleasure of having
daughters."

Yes ; be thankful your ward will never
cause you any such worry."

How am I to feel sure ? " smiling at
her again,

Marion is the kind of girl who would
break her heart, and make a lifelong
trouble of such a thing. You know how
quickly I recover from any physical disorder,
and it would be the same with any
mental disturbance. I should recover my
balance at once."

"Ah," he replied, " that is an idea;
have you thought it out at all ? "

I was thinking of it just before you
joined me. You know there are certain
people of unsound constitution with whom
the slightest ailment becomes something
serious ; if they scratch their finger, the
scratch becomes a festering sore, and if
they have a really serious illness, they
never get over it. In the same way there
are people with naturally unhealthy minds,
to whom every trifle appears in the light
of a calamity. The least pin-prick to their
vanity or pride becomes a sore which long
in healing ; and if they have a disappointment
in love, or ambition, or lose a friend
by death or estrangement, they are never
the same again. Their minds are unhealthy
and the wound never heals. Just
as a healthy body recovers quickly and
surely from any physical disturbance,
so a healthy mind regains its normal state
after any shock, with equal ease. Of course,

I know many people would not admit that.
It is interesting to receive such a mental
blow that your mind is never the same
again, to go through such seas of trouble
that all power of pleasure and enjoyment
is washed out of you, and you spend the
remainder of your life with a clouded
brow and sorrowful eyes. People like
that are considered very much more interesting,
and to have stronger and deeper
feelings, than those who regain their
mental balance after terrible experiences,
and come out of their troubles as sound as
before they went into them. The last-named
people are liable to be considered
as very frivolous and shallow, powerless to
take any deep impression, or to keep it if
taken. In reality it is the reverse. People
who get over their troubles quickly are
stronger than those who can never shake
them off. It is morbid and unhealthy to

VOL. I. L

remain all your life a victim to some loss
or disappointment, and it is only because
the majority of people are more or less
morbid and unhealthy that lives ' blasted
by misfortune ' and such calamities, have
become more interesting than healthy
natures which throw their troubles off."

Mr. Richardson had listened attentively,
though not without smiling from time to
time. When she had finished, he said, 

** Your theory is ingenious, and at least
has the merit of originality. You spoke
so vehemently, I thought you must be
fighting your own battle*'

Perhaps I was. You know that, if
Marion and I were both to suffer a disappointment
in love, we should each bear
the disappointment in the way I have
described, and each be judged in the way I
have described'*

*' Probably you are right. Still, if we

had time, I think I could point out some
flaws in your argument. Remember the
analogy between mind and body is not
perfect."

Yes, you are right, the argument
might lead us a very long way and leave
us in a blind alley at the end, all the more
so because I should be secretly fighting
my own theory. I have a sneaking hope
that mine may be one of the constitutions
you describe."

Mr. Richardson laughed, and raised his
eyebrows, saying, 

What ! you want to undergo the
common lot of womanhood after all ? "

Not for the mere pleasure of the thing,
but professionally. I should be able to
describe it so much better if I had once
felt it. I hate bad work, and I am afraid
that at first, at any rate, I must fail there."

Oh, my dear child, you must not make
L 2

mountains out of molehills. Look at the
average novel, and tell me low much of it
you suppose was drawn from nature and
how much from the imagination, more or
less pure and simple, of the author?"

Yes, yes ; but then mine are not going
to be average novels ; at least, we hope
not. If I find they rise no higher than
that, I shall put a stop to them at once''

She shook her head back as she spoke,
and the peculiar inspired look came into
her face, which Stephen had seen more
than once, without being able to explain
it.

Have no fears on that head," said Mr.
Richardson, in a tone of calm conviction.
*' Your work will not be average work ;
the only danger will be lest it should not
be average enough. At first, at any rate,
it will be wise to consult the popular taste
and to think rather of what will be

acceptable to people, than of what is
wholly true to nature. You don't like
that, I know," laying his hand on hers,
but, if you want to make your way, it
must be. Many an ambitious young
author has come to grief on that rock.
Don't make your characters too high
toned ; if you do, people won't read your
books, and I want your books to be read.
People don't like high-toned characters ;
they have an uneasy feeling that they area
tacit reproach to themselves. People
don't want to be made better, and it is a
great mistake, and one into which a young
author is peculiarly liable to fall, to suppose
that they do. They want to be left in
peace, and that is why the average in
everything is so popular. If a person who
sets up to be a leader of humanity pitches
his standard above the moral stature of
his followers, he will pay for it by having

no followers at all. If he is a preacher,
his church will be empty, he will probably
be persecuted and driven from the place ;
if he is a writer, people won't read his
books. And remember that from that
tribunal of the public there is no appeal.
It is of no use to feel conscious of merit, of
honesty and rectitude of purpose; if the
public is not with you, it is against you.
And of him against whom it is, one might
almost say ' Better for that man if he had
never been born.' The same may be said
of a woman with ten-fold truth. You
remember the words, 

* The brave, impetuous heart yields everywhere
To the subtle, contriving head ;
Great qualities are trodden down,
And littleness united
Is become invincible.'

There is a vast amount of truth in those
lines."

*' And you think there is danger of that
kind in store for me ? "

** Yes, my child, assuredly. You have
something worth saying, and you know
how to say it. The only danger is lest
you choose your time wrongly ; there is so
much in doing or speaking just at the
right time."

*' The time will arrange itself ; the thing
is to have something to say, a message
from another world; to have a living
immortal soul within one, not a dead
stony image of one's lower self'*

Mr. Richardson eyed her keenly.

I like to hear you speak like that," he
said, when she had finished. " If I were
ever moved to prayer, it should be that I
might be alive when your triumph comes."

She caught her breath, and involuntarily
straightened herself against the pang which
shot through her heart.

Of course you will be alive ! *' she said
half jestingly, half vehemently. Then she
went on, 

You are not worse, you have no fresh
symptoms ? "

No, I am only more conscious of
the old ones. But, my love, you must
not look like that, or I shall be sorry that
I told you."

No, no, you must not feel sorry, or
think I am going to be weak. I can be as
strong as you, and shall help and
comfort you to the end. Only it came so
suddenly, and latterly I have thought you
seemed better."

Her voice was low and faltering, unsteady
to brokenness. Her whole face
had changed ; it was sad and wistful, and
she fixed her dark eyes yearningly on
Mr. Richardson's face.

He drew her closer to him, and,

instead of answering her, said half playfully


Will it be a great trouble to you when
I die ? "

Oh, do not speak of it ! the mere
thought terrifies me. What shall I do
without your advice and help ? I shall be
so lonely, I dare not think of it."

There was a world of love in her voice
and words, and when she unfinished speaking,
Mr. Richardson put his hand under her
upturned chin and kissed her, saying, 

'' If any of our Stanedale friends were
to see and hear you now, Martha, they
would stare and rub their eyes, and say,
Sure this is never she ! ' "

She laughed a little, and then said
jealously, 

You have not told the others ? "

''No," he said thoughtfully; "I am
afraid that when I must tell them, they

will reproach me for my reticence. But
I do not feel as if I could confide in Marion,
so I shall leave them both in the dark as
long as possible."

It will be much the best ; if they knew,
they would leave you no peace, you would
be worried to death."

They sat for some time longer, and
then Martha noticed the evening chill, and
thought they had better go. So hand in
hand, they came across the moors and down
into the valley towards home.

Marion and Ethel had spent the afternoon
in the little upstairs sitting-room,
sacred to themselves and their needlework.
It was a very pretty little room into which
no other member of the family ever set foot.
To Martha it was ground as unknown as
was to them their father's study, where
Martha spent most of her time when she

was in the house. In this room the sisters
were perfectly secure from interruption,
and they could look and speak just as they
pleased.

They were very busy, working for a
bazaar which a few enterprising spirits in
Stanedale had set on foot, and in which
they took a keen interest. Marion's face
no longer wore the calmly satisfied look
which had clothed it as she presided at the
tea-table on the evening of Mr. Knox's
arrival. She was both thinner and paler,
and her mouth had a downward droop,
which was yet half effaced by the naturally
haughty curve of the lips, as though
she were undergoing a continual mental
struggle. She plied her needle listlessly ;
it was easy to see that her mind was only
half in her work. Ethel, on the contrary,
drew her needle in and out with almost more
than her usual vigour. She broke a somewhat

lengthy silence by saying in the tone
of one who continues an interrupted
conversation, 

I don't at all see why you should take
such a gloomy view, Marion. I don't
really think that Mr. Knox has done anything
to justify it."

You never knew him as I did," replied
Marion ; '' it is not to be expected that
you should notice his manner so closely."

'* You are imagining all kinds of things
which have no existence outside your own
brain. If you only listened to your reason
you would know at once that you are
inventing your own troubles'*

I wish I could think so," said the
elder girl ; " but I know, I can feel, that
he is no longer the same. But, if he has
changed, I daresay I can change with
equal ease."

"Now," said Ethel, "you are going to

try to persuade yourself that you do not
care for him any more, when you know
quite well that you have not changed a
bit."

Marion bit her lip, and lifted her head
higher.

' I hope I shall never be so weak as to
care for a man who has grown indifferent
to me."

He is not indifferent," persisted Ethel
valiantly, for she firmly believed that she
was speaking the truth. '' I do not think
you have any right to accuse him of want
of faith, because he sometimes pays
Mary la a little attention."

The mention of Mary la's name seemed
to fan the smouldering flame of Marion's
anger into life.

There is not the slightest reason why
he should pay Mary la attention, either
much or little. He goes out of his way

to do it. They were strangers when lie
came here. I do not see why they could
not have remained strangers."

Ethel said nothing, and presently
Marion went on, 

' It is all Martha's fault. He has never
been the same since that day they went to
Ravensghyll together."

'' Martha did not invite him to go with
her, she put difficulties in the way."

'' Difficulties which were easily overcome,
and which made him want to go
more than ever. He has never been the
same since."

You fancy so, because he never told
you what he said to her."

*' Why did he not tell me ? " dropping
her work into her lap. "If there was
anything serious between us, I had a
rio-ht to know ; and if there was not, he
had no business to come here at all."

'* It must have been something connected
with Martha, of course, and perhaps
she did not wish to have it spoken of."

'' Then it was a secret," with growing
anger; *rand I dispute his right to have
secrets with her. How came he to have
any knowledge of her affairs ? he had never
seen her before he came here."

'' It was strange, I have thought so myself,"
admitted Ethel.

I cannot bear to think of it," said her
sister, with some excitement. " I hate to
see him look at her, and he looks at her
very often."

I can understand that," said Ethel
rather deprecatingly. " I like to look at
her too. She is very beautiful you must
confess. But at the same time, I don't
believe any man would prefer her to you.
I don't think men care to have girls like
Martha for their wives'*

'' No ; but they care to have them to look
at, and talk to, and that is the principal
thing."

"Don't be cynical," said Ethel cheerfully,
in reply to the undisguised bitterness
of her sister's voice. " The man would
not be worth thinking about, who, after
growing fond of you, could transfer his
affections to a Martha Goldengay. Why
her very name is against her, it is like
that of a pantomime-girl."

Marion smiled faintly, though immediately
afterwards, she hardened her voice
again, saying,

I do not know that he ever did get
fond of me, as you call it. We never had
any proof."

'' Oh, none at all," with smiling sarcasm.
' He never paid you any attention while
we were away ; he did not ask to come here
very soon after we had come home. Such

behaviour from a man to a woman is generally,
I believe, taken to mean that lie
rather dislikes her."

Marion smiled again. Her woman's
instinct told ber more truly than Ethel's
superficial common sense, but sbe could not
help being swayed by it, it fell in so with
her inclinations.

' Why does he stay here," went on Ethel,
if he does not want you ? "

'Wliy does he not ask me to marry him
if he does want me ? "

'' Oh; I fancy he is rather slow in everything
he does. lie is not a person with
whom one associates the idea of haste.
And if it comes to that, if he wants Mary la,
why does he not ask her ? "

In her kindness of heart she had
blundered terribly. Marion went crimson
and then very white, and she quivered from
head to foot.

VOL. I. M

*' Don't, even in fun, say those tidings,
Ethel," she said nervously. "You have
never felt as I feel now, and I hope you
never may. If I really thought there was
anything between them I would never
speak to Martha again as long as I live."

Ethel was silent, unable to follow her
sister's mood. She was passionately fond
of, but far removed from understanding
her. She had never yet had any love
affair, and she was perfectly unconscious
of the stabs she was giving to Marion's
pride. ' She thought that common sense
was all on her side of the question. And
beyond that she could not see. After a
short silence she went on, 

It used to be you who found fault with
me for saying hard things of Martha, but
I don't think you are fair to her now. I
do ]iot think she cares for Mr. Knox at
all"

'I daresay not. It would not be
necessary for lier to like him ; lie could
do all the mischief she wanted without
that."

' I have often heard her making; fun ol
him with papa."

Marion clenched her hand with anofer.

o

'' Have you ? I could have believed it
of her, it is just the kind of thing she
would delight to do. But I did not think
papa would have joined in that."

'' He thinks everything she does right.
If she were to make fan of us, his own
daughters, I believe he would join in. He
is infatuated about her."

'eyes." said Marion, "people have
infatuations about such girls as Martha ;
for you and me they have only a calm,
unemotional friendship."

'' If what you say about Mr. Knox be
true, and an infatuation means to come
M 2

and stay in people's houses under false
pretences, 1 am glad we do not inspire
infatuations. At the same time," she went
on, returning to her wonted commonsense
mood, " I have observed that people
generally grow tired of infatuations and
are very glad to come back to calm,
unemotional affection. If Martha really
has"

Marion interrupted her with a little
stamp of the foot.

*' Ethel!" she cried excitedly, "how
can you go on like that ? You make me
hate Martha. I have always disliked her
and her manner, but I thought I was
wrong and I did my best to hide it and
overcome it. She has always robbed me.
She robbed me of my father when mama
died ; I did my best to ttike her place, I
wanted to make papa forget his loss. He
would, not let me. While he was at home

he sit himself up in his study, and
then he went away and stayed for
years. When he came home again he
brought Mary la with him, and I saw at
once that she had his heart. When I
offered to do anything for him, it was
always ' No, thank you, my dear, Martha
will do that; she remembers how
I had it in Germany.' They had a
thousand remembrances and associations
in common; he had forgotten all our
tastes and feelings. He cannot complain
if I am cold now ; he refused my
love when I offered it to him. I cannot
change now. Martha stole him from me,
and now she has stolen what was more tome
than even papa's love. I cannot
forgive."

She paused, her chest heaving, her lips
trembling so that she could not speak.
She had never thought that even to Ethel

she could sap all lie had just said. The
double failure humiliated her bitterly, and
she would never forget the cause of her
humiliation. When the conversation had
begun she had had no intention of saying
such things, she had been led on, and
could not now retreat. She could only
repeat, 

'' She has robbed me twice, and if
she can do it a third time she will."

Ethel was silent. She did not know
what to say. Her attempts at comfort
seemed only to irritate her sister, and
in what concerned their father, she agreed
with her. While they sat silent, Ethel
distressed and half-frightened, Marion
proud, angry and sore-hearted, they heard
the garden gate open and shut and Martha's
voice saying, 

The house looks dead ; I wonder
where the column is."

How imprudent you are," replied Mr.
Richardson ; '' every window in the house
is wide open."

He would never apply it to himself.
If he heard me, he would solemnly wonder
of whom I could be speaking."

To please me, be more circumspect."

'' That is another thing altogether ; you
have my promise."

The two girls heard every word of the
little dialogue, and as Martha finished
speaking, Marion turned abruptly and left
the room in silence.

CHAPTER VIII.

Would I had never seen her ! "

Me. Knox was far from happy. He was
ready to curse the day on which he had
come to Stanedale, and yet he could not
tear himself away. The thought of binding
himself to Marion was hateful to him ;
yet he was tortured with the feeling that
if he had changed, she had not. He knew
she loved him, and in his calmer and more
reasonable moments he told himself that,
as' she had given a hundred tacit and
perhaps unconscious indications of her love,
he was bound to respect such confessions,
and to ask her to be his wife. At least,
he owed it to her to let her choose if she

would marry him or not. He thought
these things when he was alone in his bedroom
at night, when the whole house was
still and he leaned out into the half darkness
of a summer night and heard the
beck flowing over the stones. Then he
was alone, neither Marion nor Martha was
present ; the one to reproach him and
make him feel guilty, with her cold, proud
English face, which had lately grown a
little disdainful, the other to torment and
madden him with her strange beauty. At
these times he told himself that all his duty
was to Marion, and be resolved firmly that
on the morrow he would overcome his
infatuation, bring matters to a close, and
ask her to marry him, thus fulfilling the
intention with which he had come to Stane-dale
more than a month before.

But when the morning came, when he
saw the sun glint on Martha's golden hair,

looked into the velvety depths of lier eyes,
heard her voice and laughter, and felt
the light touch of her hand as she bade
him good morning, all his good resolutions
melted like the hoarfrost of early
autumn ; he felt that the struggle was not
ended at all, that it never would be ended,
but must go on as long as his life lasted,
renewing itself every morning, to be
fought through the whole day, leaving him
at night with a sense of exhaustion and
defeat.

He knew now that his love for Martha
was the one passion of his life ; instinct
told him that he would never feel a second
time what he felt now. He was drifting
along a stream, the current of which he
was powerless to resist. His one wish was
to be in Martha's presence, to be near
her, to speak to and look at her, to get her
if possible to look at him. He began to

feel afraid of being in the presence of both
girls at the same time. He knew that his
remaining at Beckbridge was villainy, and
he groaned under a sense of sin which he
was yet powerless to throw off. He was
unconscious of Marion's presence except
from the sense of irritation which sometimes
accompanied it ; he had to exert all his
strength to prevent himself following
Martha wherever she went. He sat often
with his eyes fixed on the ground, or
looking blankly out of the window, because
he knew that if he raised or turned them
aside they would fall on Martha. Sometimes
he felt reckless and told himself that
he would stay, he did not care what the
consequences might be; he would stay
until he was driven away.

His mental discomfort was in no way
lessened by the reflection that even did
Martha return his love, she was not free

to do SO, that an insuperable barrier to
their union lay in the fact that she was
married already. When he thought of that
marriage, he felt like a trapped tiger.
The whole thing was such a mystery, and
yet he could not doubt its truth. He
could not now tell Mr. Richardson about
it,  if he did he would be throwing away
his one weapon without in the least benefitting
himself. Whatever Mr Richardson
decided to do, he would be allowed no share
in the proceedings.

He was thinking aD;)ut all these things
as he walked slowly along alone. He had
come out after the early dinner, because
the house seemed too small for him.
Martha had gone out in the morning, he
knew not where. He had purposely abstained
from asking her, thinking that he
would give up this day to Marion. All
the morning he had kept his resolve ; he

had read aloud to the sisters as they sat
over their bazaar work. He was fond of
reading aloud, and knew that he read well.
He had looked forward to spending the
afternoon in the same way, free from
temptation, if free from pleasure. But at
dinner, Marion had said she and her sister
must go to the Rectory. He had walked
there with them, and then turned aside
to pursue his own thoughts undisturbed.

The road he had chosen was favourable
to such a purpose. It led out of the
high-road, and wound up hill and down
between rich overhanging woods to a
small and very beautiful lake called
High Tarn. The water lay in a hollow,
with rough, heathy hills surrounding it,
and a plantation of Scotch firs growing
almost to the water's edge. A wreath of
water-lilies extended all round the tarn
a few yards from the shore. There was

not a single house all along the road, and
few people ever came near the place. He
had turned along the lane at first, hardly
conscious of where he was going ; but
when after walking a little way he had
lifted his head and looked around him, he
was glad he had come here.

Just before reaching the hollow where
the lake lay, he came to a gate. As he
held it open in his hand he saw a sight
which made him stand still for a minute,
and then the gate slipped from his grasp
and fell to with a loud crash.

Down in the hollow at the edge of the
water sat Martha, her hat, as usual, on
the ground, her hair falling over her
shoulders and, seated as she was, lying
around her on the grass. She appeared
to be in the act of twisting it up into the
heavy coils in which she usually wore it,
for she had one long lock like a golden

rope in Ler hands. At the sound of the
gate falling to, she looked np and saw
Stephen.

He would have been content to stand
and gaze at her, but seeing he was discovered,
he was forced to come forward.
He walked slowly down towards her, so
slowly that by the time he had reached
her side she had twisted up all her hair
and turned her head to him dressed as he
was accustomed to see it.

He did not speak ; no words suggested
themselves to him. She began at once
with her usual ease, 

'' I suppose you are too shocked to
speak ? Have you met many women who
dress their hair out-of-doors and use a
lake for a looking-glass ? "

As she spoke she bent dangerously far
over the water, and looked at her reflection
in the still black depths.

"Take care what you are doing!" lie
said almost below this breath. He dared
not lay this hand upon her to restrain
her.

If you come upon people in unexpected
]places and at unexpected times,
you must expect to find them doing
unexpected things."

'' Has not that rather a Hibernian
savour ? " he asked, catching at anything
which might furnish a remark. " How
could I expect unexpected things ? "

Oh, very easily, if you are prepared
for anything, and I thought that was one
of the signs by which one might tell a
wise man."

Do you call me a wise man ? " he
asked, with rather a melancholy smile.

I said, ' if you are prepared for
everything.' "

He laughed shortly, and said, 

I did not expect to find you livres'*
'' It is rather a favourite place of
mine."

It is very lonely. I remember thinking
so when I came here once with Miss
Richardson and her sister."

His invocation of Marion was a confession
of weakness. Martha asked unconsciously,


Where are they ? How is it you are
not with them now ? "

He frowned as he told her how he had
spent the morning and what had hindered
a like disposal of the afternoon. She
laughed and shrugged her shoulders when
he told her about the bazaar and the
meeting which the girls were attending at
the Rectory. Then she made some biting
speeches about the Stanedale people and
laughed at him when he ventured on a
reproof. At last she collected her things
VOL. I. N

and said lie was going home. He might
accompany lier or stay behind as lie
listed.

'' I will come with you," lie replied.
"I promised to call at the Rectory for
Miss Richardson."

You are too late ; they will have left
before this," and she held out her watch
for him to look at.

He bit his lips genuinely annoyed.
When he met Marion at tea, it would be
impossible in Martha's presence to give
any reason but the right one for his nonappearance.


'' If I go now I may be able to join heron
the way."

"Possibly."

He rose and stood hesitatingly for a
moment, then he looked down at Martha,
and asked, 

Are you not coming ? "

Not as tidings have turned out. You
will have to hurry. I dislike hurry, and
so I shall let you go alone and follow at
my leisure."

He could nob change again, so he set
off alone, and almost ran along the lane
leading to the high-road along which
Marion and her sister must come. When
he got to the road, he saw them coming
slowly along, and he uttered a sigh of
relief.

"TVe thought you were not coming,"
said Ethel when they met.

I went too far and forgot the time.
I have been hurrying back, hoping I should
meet you half-way."

As he spoke he took his usual place
by Marion's side and she began to speak
of something else. The moment was gone
and no mention had been made of Miss
Goldengay. If later she referred to their
N 2

meeting by the lake lie would stand convicted
of want of truth.

She did refer to it. Whether innocently
or with malicious intent Stephen could
not tell. Her face was the picture of
innocence, but Mr. Knox was beginning to
understand that manner.

"Well," she said at tea, 'did you
meet ? "

She addressed no one in particular and
Marion asked with a little astonishment, 

*' Did who meet whom ? "

Did Mr. Knox meet you ? He thought
he might join you on the way from the
Rectory,  I thought he was too late."

Mr. Knox did meet us," replied Marion,
and nothing more was said ; but whether
she knew it or not, Mary la made two bitter
enemies from that moment.

Stephen was bitterly angry with her,
and on the following evening he resolved

to give her a sight of the whip which he
kept concealed. Suddenly, without any
warning, he turned to Marion and
asked, 

Did you ever know anything of a man
called Maurice Wingfield? "

Mr. Richardson was not present, and
Stephen, as he spoke, avoided meeting
Martha's eyes ; but he could not help
glancing at her, and he saw that after
an almost imperceptible change of countenance,
she was herself again. Marion
and Ethel, in answer to his question, replied
that they knew nothing of such a
person.

"He was never in this neighbourhood?"


'' Never," replied Ethel ; '' it is the first
time I have heard such a name."

Martha said nothing, and scarcely
seemed to heed the discussion. But she

presently got up and left the room, without
saying where she was going.

She went into the garden, and then
through the gate, and seated herself upon
the bridge which connected the house with
the road. She leaned over it and looked
down into the swiftly-flowing beck ; her
lips curled into a smile, and she said in a
whisper, 

I suppose that is the column's idea of
fencing."

She sat still for a few minutes and then
left the bridge and walked slowly down to
the lake. When she got to the water's
edge she paused and began to speak half
aloud.

'' He is a fiend ! If he is going to
play me tricks like that, he must be got
rid of. I thought I heard Mr. Richardson's
step outside, and I was horribly frightened ;
fortunately the column had no idea how

frightened. The only thing is to play a
bold game, and rather invite him to tell
than seem to fear it. If Mr. Richardson
knew, I believe it would kill him. How
could we be so inconceivably foolish as to
leave the register like that, and the clergyman
and clerk both to die ! It is too late
to do anything now; fortunately I have
succeeded in putting him on the wrong
track, but still he must be got rid of. It
was a desperate thing to give him that
weapon for the future, but I could do
nothing else. I wish Maurice was not
quite so far away; he might be of
some use now. Mr. Richardson shall
never know, whatever straits I am put to.
He shall not know."

CHAPTER IX.

One scene
Of excellent dissembling."

It had rained all the morning ; but after
dinner it cleared, and Martha set out to goto
Hawks water. Though she did not know
it, she was followed by Stephen Knox.
He had seen her go out at the gate, and,
on the spur of the moment, he had
snatched up his hat and resolved to follow
her as he had done once before. As he
climbed the steep hill behind the station,
threaded the lanes through the high open
fields at the top and breathed the strong
fresh air of early autumn, as he strode
over the moors, he thought almost uninterruptedly

of that; first time he had come
here. Then, he had felt only repugnance
to the girl who was walking in front of
him ; now  his face grew dark when he
thought of what he felt now, and of all
that was involved in that feeling. There
was also the knowledge that, even did she
love him, and he told himself fiercely that
she did, she must, during the last few days,
since he had found her at High Tarn,
she had given what he considered unmistakable
signs that he was more to her
than a mere friend. Even did she love
him as he loved her, she could never be
his ; this absent, unknown husband came
between them and parted them more
effectually than any number of bolts and
bars. They had never renewed their
conversation about the marriage ; he had
often wished to do so, but had never
ventured to introduce the subject in the

total absence of encouragement from
Marjla.

To-daj he was going to be bolder.
When they should be seated together
in that gloomy little hollow, between
the Pike and Black Crag, he would
demand and obtain an explanation of
the whole mysterious affair. He would
make it his business to see if nothing could
be done ; for if there existed any possibility
of making this girl hie wife, his wife she
should be. She should not leave the place
until she had told him all he asked, promised
all he wished.

In this mood, rather a dangerous one
for Martha, he followed the girl into this
most solitary spot. The savage loneliness
of the moors harmonized with his present
frame of mind. He felt his heart
harden against Martha, even though he
was going to tell her that he loved her.

and expected to hear that she loved him
in return.

It-was only when Martha had reached the
tarn, that she turned and saw Mr. Knox
behind her. She frowned and looked
at him for a moment without speaking,
her dark eyes looking straight into his.

You have followed me again," she
said at last. " It becomes annoying
when I cannot go out for a simple walk
without being tracked as if I were a
criminal."

If I prefer to walk behind you instead
of at your side, I suppose I may."

'' I only ask you to let me know when
you are coming. It is the secrecy and
the discovery that I have been followed
without my knowledge to which I object."

I should hardly have expected to hear
you objecting to secrecy."

*' It is not very long since I suggested

the advisability of being prepared for anything."


That is no answer at all, only an
evasion."

I was not aware an answer was
necessary. But may I ask why you
followed me np here ? Scarcely to quarrel,
I suppose."

It depends upon you whether we
quarrel or not."

' Then that question may, I think, be
considered as set at rest," seating herself
as she spoke at the place from which she
got her favourite view across the valley.
So now, perhaps, you will go on to what
you originally intended to say."

She looked up at him as she spoke with
calmly indifferent eyes, her face expressing
no more than a slight degree of curiosity
about what he had come out to say. He
felt that she must know why he had

followed lier, and yet it was impossible to
guess what lie thought or felt.

His eyes were gloomy and angry.
He loved Martha passionately, and yet lie
tormented him sorely, and often made him
feel very angry Avitli her. To-day, however,
he had promised himself that all
should be made clear between them; so
he beat down his rising anger, steadied his
voice and said as calmly as he could, 

*' I came out to ask you a question !"

'* Only one ? Was it worth while
coming all this way to ask only one
question ? "

One thing leads to another, and we
may have to go through quite a long conversation
before we have done."

'' In that case we had better begin at
once or we may have to break off in the
middle."

I had made up my mind that we would

not leave this place until we had
thoroughly exhausted the subject."

'' All the more reason for beginning ;
bat do sit down, it is really displeasing tome
when you persist in standing up. Sit
down here, and we can talk more comfortably."


She laid her hand as she spoke, upon a
stone close to her own seat, and at the
same time she looked up at him with a
smile which set his nerves thrilling.
He seated himself at her bidding, and
remained silent for a few seconds afterwards.


"Now your question?" she said in a
tone of encouragement.

'' I want you to tell me all about your
marriage and your husband."

She laughed softly when he had spoken,
and looked at him with an expression of
critical amusement.

'you call that one question? If I
chose to satisfy your curiosity, we might
sit here talking till midnight, and I am
not sure that we should have thoroughly
exhausted the subject even then."

Why do you talk of my curiosity ? as
if I had no interest in the matter."

'' I do not see what interest you can
have. What does it matter to you whether
I am married or not ? You can only want
to know from curiosity. To put it quite
plainly, what right have you to inquire
into what I choose to keep private ? "

She had brought things to a point now.
The explanation could no longer be
deferred ; whether knowingly or unknowingly
she had pulled the sword on to
her own neck. Mr. Knox listened to her
with his eyes fixed upon her face, and ashe
did not at once speak she went on, 

'' If I had ever wished or thought it

necessary to tell you about my husband,
I should have done so of my own accord.
I think it is both ill-bred and impertinent
of you to force the subject upon meas
you do. Any man with the least
penetration would have understood my
silence."

"What do you mean by speaking like
that ? " he asked at length.

What do you mean by speaking like
that ? " she retorted. " Any one who
heard you would think you had some right
over me."

So I have, the right of the man who
loves you."

Oh," she answered slowly.

And," he added with growing excitement,
" the right of the man whom, unless
for the last few days your whole life has
been a lie, you love too."

She had not taken her eyes off his face

after repeating lier question as to his
right to address lier, and her eyes still met
his as she said, 

Hush ! you have no right to say that,
nor I to hear it."

'* I you allowed me to show you my
love all this time, I have a right to be
heard now."

*' Since when," she asked, " have I
allowed you to make love to me ? "

'' Do you mean to say that you did not
know I loved you ? "

I have lately thought your manner a
little odd; so thatwas the meaning of it."

'' Dare you say you did not know ? "

How was I to think of such a thing?
There was Marion."

His gesture of repugnance was fierce ashe
answered, 

'why do you drag her name in? It
was not she I wanted, but you, and you

VOL. I.

knew it. I might have been content with
her once, if I had never seen yon, but not
now."

It is a pity you cannot have what you
want, but if there were no other obstacle, I
do not love you."

She was very cool. She never took her
eyes off his face. Just as long as she
kept her eyes on his would he acknowledge
her supremacy. Then, too, this was not,
for her, the worst part of the battle. If
she wished to be successful when that came
she must have all her wits about her, and
she was not at all afraid of Stephen, though
he did just now look very like a madman,
and the small deep tarn was dangerously
near.

He was silent for a moment after she
had spoken. He staggered under her
words and drew his breath with a sharp
gasp.

Do not trifle with me," lie said at last ;
I might lose my head if you tried me too
far."

I am not trifling, I am speaking the
truth."

'' Can you speak the truth? Dare you
deny that during the last few days you
have done everything you could to make
me think you preferred me ? "

My manner is what it is. I cannot help
it if you draw wrong inferences from it."

'' The usual excuse. To hear them talk,
you would think women were all sleep-walkers,
and perfectly unconscious of their
own actions."

'that is rather an ingenious idea; you
will allow me to make a note of it."

Answer me," he said almost roughly :
dare you deny that you have lately given
me to suppose that my society was
interesting and agreeable to you



How you harp upon one string ! I do
not deny it ; I never did deny it. I only
said you drew wrong inferences."

'' Then what was your reason ? "

It was so very different from the one you
suppose, that I really hesitate to tell you."

I must know ; you have gone too far
to retract."

'' Understand once for all that there is
no must in the matter. I tell you just as
much as I choose, and because I choose.
I did these things because I was studying
your character to put into my novel."

He stared at her for a moment, and then
said in a voice which showed the immense
restraint he was putting upon himself,  

"Will you repeat that ; T cannot have
heard aright."

She repeated the last few words.
When she had finished, he drew a deep
breath.

'' Good God ! " Le said at last, " do you
mean that you deliberately led me on to
love you when you lead not a particle of
feeling on your side ? "

I deliberately led you on to nothing at
all. You interested me, you had exactly
the character of which I was then in want.
I do not see many people here, I must
work with the materials which fall in my
way."

You did that in cold blood," he said,
almost as in a dream ; " are you a woman
or a fiend ? "

The usual cry," she said, shrugging
her shoulders, " when men find women not
quite so simple as they had expected."

'' It is incredible," he went on without
heeding her, " I cannot believe it. You
are not telling me the truth, you do love
me, and you are trying to put mo off in
that way. You must love me ; you have

as good as told me so over and over

aorain."

Take care what you are saying, I do
not allow people to say those things to me.
I never felt in the least attracted to yon,
and you forget that however much I might
wish to think of you as something nearer
than a friend, I am not at liberty to do
so."

' Forget it ? I have not forgotten it,
it is always in my mind, I can think of
nothing else. That is why I came here today.
Miss Goidengay  Martha  you must
tell me the truth."

"Keep to Miss Goidengay, please. It
may not be my real name, but it is the
one by which I am known here. What do
you mean by the truth ? You do know
it."

Is it a fact that you are not at liberty
to marry me ? "

How can I make it plainer to you than
I have already done ? Three years ago
I was married in Haygarth Church to
Maurice Wingfield. Yon have yourself
seen the register ; what more can I say ? "

'' Where is your husband ? What is he ?
Why does he leave you here, and why did
you part from him ? Ashy did you part ?
That is the question I ask myself night
and day. I want your answer novi. Why
did you part ? "

That is my secret."

Is there any reason why I should not
know ? "

None, except that I do not choose to
tell you."

*' I will find out, I will spend all my life
in the search."

*' You cannot find out."

'' If I found your husband would he tell
me?"

Xot if lie knew I did not wish you to
be told."

Does he love you ? "

She half sighed and the sigh changed
into a smile.

Poor Maurice yes, he loves me very
much."

'did you leave him because of any
crime he had committed ? "

He had committed no crime."

*' Whose suggestion was it that you
should part ? "

There was a slight pause before she
answered, 

It was his suggestion."

Did you leave him, or he you ? "

"He left me."

'' Then the fault was on your side ? "

Yes, what fault there was."

He could not altogether suppress a
smile, but proceeded with his catechism.

'' Do join love him?"

"Did sou love him?"

I never loved him."

Then why did you marry him ? "

He was astonished at the effect of his
question. She did not answer at once,
her eyes fell, the colour rushed hotly
all over her face, shame and confusion
were written in every feature, her words
when they did come were low and
hesitating.

I could not tell you."

He was silent. It was impossible to
piece together what she said so as to make
anything coherent out of it. The only
things which had been established were
that three years ago she had married
secretly a man who loved her, but whose
love she did not return. By his wish
they had parted and had never met again.

The fault, '' what there was of it," was on
her side. He did not know what more to
say, and he sat lost in thought. His
excitement and passion had blazed out, his
sou] was weighed down by a depression
which he could not shake off. He had so
utterly failed in his undertaking. Since
confessing to himself that he loved Martha,
he had been buoyed up by a vague hope
that when he came to investigate the
matter he would find some loophole by
which she might escape from her ill-judged
marriage; he had hoped more strongly
during the last few days, believing that
she would work with him, would be equally
anxious to find she was free. It had come
to an end, his house of cards had fallen
down with almost ridiculous despatch.
There was no loophole by which she
might escape, neither did she wish to

escape. She had never loved him, but
seeing his love for her and secure in her
own position, she had aroused herself with
morally vivisecting him. There was
something unnatural about it, and it
began to dawn upon him that there were
depths in this girl's nature which he had not
fathomed. He found that he knew no more
about her than he had himself found out.
She had answered his questions as directly
as he had asked them, but she had told
him nothing which would be of the slightest
use to him. He tried to reconcile her
almost incredible carelessness in both
speech and action with the cold calculation
and reticence which at other times she
displayed. Then he reminded himself that
she was not Miss Goldengay at all, but
Mrs. Maurice Wingfield, and his heart
once more grew hot with mingled auger

and longing. He turned to her again
to renew the conversation.

This silence, which for him had been
an interval of meditation, had for her
been a time of momentary relaxation and
then of mental bracing. One part of the
battle was over ; the other, and for her
the severest, was yet to come. She had
to summon all her strength and skill to
her aid. She must lead her companion
astray, make him believe that the worst
was past, and that she had little to fear
from what was coming. She sat arranging
her forces and almost unconsciously
fighting her battle. She had taken the
attitude she instinctively took when reflecting
upon anything. Her right hand
hung loosely at her side, the long slender
fingers almost resting on the ground.
She was leaning slightly forward, her left
elbow rested on her knee, and her chin was

supported on her palm. The warm colour
having died out of her face, it was even
paler than usual. Mr. Knox could not
see her eyes, but from her attitude and
the rest of her face, he imagined they
must wear rather a dreary expression ;
the beautiful mouth was a little hard.
What he read in her face caused him to
change his mind ; instead of speaking, he
looked at her in silence, and then turned
away and followed the direction of her
eyes as they looked across the valley.
Dark and lowering clouds alone met his
view, and the lake was blotted out. The
transient brilliance of the early afternoon
had faded like his hopes. The mists had
come down over the Pike, and the old
giant loomed dimly athwart them. The
silence of the moors was unbroken ; close
to them the little lake glimmered like a
dark eye swimming in tears. In all that

wide expanse they were the only human
beings. Without knowing why, he began
to think of this place as it must have
looked at midnight when Martha came
here, and then his thoughts turned to the
following morning dien, surrounded by
sunshine and blue sky, Martha had told
him the story of her life, or  he reminded
himself with some bitterness  as much of
it as she had chosen to tell. Then he was
back in the present as they sat in the
mists and gloom, with strife and enmity
as well as love in their hearts. When
he looked again at the girl at his side,
he felt more compassion than anger.
She must be unhappy; it could not be
otherwise, and his love swallowed up
all other feelings, and he felt his heart
stir with infinite pity and tenderness
for her.

Suddenly she turned to him and spoke.

The gloomy look lead vanished from her
face, and her voice sounded quite cheerful.


'now," she said, 'there remains only
one thing for you to do. You must go
and tell Mr. Richardson everything."

What do you mean by ' everything ' ? "

What we have just been talking
about."

Her change of manner had jarred upon
him. The proposal she now made irritated
him still more, and he replied, 

Your * everything ' is not very comprehensive.
It does not, I presume,
include all we have said about your
marriage, and an evilly-disposed person
might have taken your words literally."

How do you know I did not intend
you to take them literally ? "

What do you mean ? Do you want
me to tell him about your marriage ? "

*' Are you going to tell liii ? " lie asked
almost eagerly.

I don't understand. Do you want me
totellliim?"

"If you would."

Not long ago you gave me a number
of reasons why you did not wish him to
know."

That is ever so long ago now."

Do not the same reasons still exist ? "

Everything has changed. To begin
with, I have been clever enough to make
you into an enemy, and I confess I do not
like to think of an enemy having in his
possession such a weapon as I gave you
when we first spoke of this. I think I
must have been a little mad at the time. I
do not any longer feel disposed to go
through life with a halter round my neck,
and feeling myself in the power of somebody
else. I daresay you would never have

thought of such a thing if I had not suggested
it to you, and I must have lost my
head a little before I was so foolish as tolet
you into such a secret. To be quite
candid, I have given you a little encouragement.
I thought you were a fit subject
for an experiment I wanted to make, and
I could not resist making it. All the time
you were speaking this afternoon, I would
have given anything to recall the idea I
had suggested to you. You have relieved
me immensely by saying you may tell
now."

But I understood that you had your
own personal reasons for wishing him not
to know."

She shrugged her shoulders.

'' I am tired of my secret; it is rather
dull having a secret quite to oneself, and
when you are gone, no one will know of
this but myself. Then the secret itself

VOL. I. p

oppresses me ; it is the only one 1 laye
ever lead, and secrecy is foreign to my
nature. I do not think it aoTees with me.
Mr. Richardson would be hurt at first, but
when I had explained matters to him he
would forgive me and eve should be better
friends than ever. He would take the
affair in hand, and take steps to bring my
husband and me together  after all it was
a very little thing that parted us. Matters
would be patched up between Maurice and
myself, and though I should have to subside
into ordinary married life with a man
whom I do not love, and give up the idea
of being a celebrated novelist, at least I
should feel safe, I should have done witli
secrets, and not feel as if I where living on
the edge of a volcano. I have not courage
to tell Mr. Richardson myself, but if you
did it forme, I should simply have to fall
into the arrangement."

She paused, looking up at him with
eyes which were like two dark deep
wells of feeling, and lips parted in a
smile hair protesting, half imploring. If
her mother could have seen her now,
she would have felt very proud of her.
Mr. Knox, as he looked down upon her,
felt his head swim, the soft lire of her
glance stole into his veins and thrilled him
through. One by one he had followed the
images she had called up, and as she
mentioned her husband, spoke of him byname,
he clenched his hands with rage.
While there is life, there is hope, so long as
she was not actually openly the wife of
another man, he could believe in some
wild chance which might make her his
wife. At the sight of her upturned velvet
eyes and parted lips, the blood rushed to
his face, his heart beat violently, and
red spots danced before his eyes.
p 2

"If you want your guardian to know,"
lie said hoarsely, '' you must take
your courage in both hands, and tell
him yourself. I will have no hand in
it."

Even as he spoke, her face changed, the
smile faded, her eyes fell. She said
nothing for a moment; then she raised
her eyebrows slightly, saying, 

'* Then I suppose I must continue to
live on the edge of the volcano ? "

*' Or get some one else to save you from
it."

There was a silence of some length, and
then she said, 

Mr. Richardson must know of this ;
at least, you will not leave that to me."

'' Why must he know ? "

' I will never have another secret from
him, and there is another reason. Go
now, and tell him all."

'' You will walk back to the village

with me



'' I will go home when I think yon are
gone."

'' Am I not to see you again ? "

''No!"

'' Do not speak so inflexibly. It is
quite possible we may never meet again
here, but I am certain we shall at some
future time. The mere fact of the
secret between us will draw us together,
and when you are free I shall be near
you."

In that case we will say ' au revoir "

"You make a jest of everything now;
perhaps you will be in a different mood
when we meet again."

'' Alt revoir'' she repeated, and he
turned and left her.

She looked after him until his figure
was lost in the mist, then she returned

to lier seat and leaned back, closing her
eyes. She was trembling a little, and she
drew two or three long sighs.

Presently she rose to her feet and
stood on the brink of the tarn, looking
into its black depth.

That is over," she said half aloud,
'' and I am glad of it, for I knew it must
come. I knew I could make him keep
silence if I appealed to the worst part of
his nature. It was rather a desperate
thing to do. If I had overacted one word
or look, he would have seen what my real
fear was, and he would have told. If he
had told, the shock would have killed Mr.
Richardson, and I, I, of all people, should
have had his death to answer for. He
shall never know of that marriage,  if I
choke with falsehoods, he shall never
know. If he knew it had led to that, he
would never forgive himself, though he

would forgive me. That is it ; he YOulcl
forgive me, and never forgive himself."

She made a long pause. Her face was
very pale, there was a dreary look in her
eyes, and her mouth drooped mournfully.
Then she began to speak again.

And I had to plead fear to the solemn
column ! So I am afraid, horribly afraid,
but for Mr. Richardson, not for myself.
When I beo'in to tremble for mv own
safety, it will be time to give up the battle.
But suppose he tells after all ! Why did
I send him to Mr. Richardson ? I wish T
knew what he would say. I must go
home. No, I cannot meet him again. ]
must wait till he has gone. When are
the trains, oh, when are the trains ? "

The house-door was shut when she
reached home, and she leaned against the
verandah as she waited for the maid to let

her in. The girl looked at her a little
curiously and said, 

Master told me to ask you to go to
him in the study, Miss."

She stepped into the house in silence.
She could not speak, her tongue clave to
the roof of her mouth and her throat was
dry. She took off her hat and laid it on
the hall table ; then she went to the study,
and, contrary to her custom, knocked at
the door before going in.

Mr. Richardson was writing in his
usual place. She moved across the room
almost noiselessly, and stood before him,
saying,

'* Ellen told me you wanted me ! "

He looked at her as she spoke. Despite
her wonderful self-command, she could
not speak in her usual voice, neither did
her eyes meet his.

'' Yes, my dear," he replied. '* But sit

down. How pale you are ! Of course
this is very annoying, but you must not
suppose for an instant that I hold you at
all to blame."

He did not know ! The relief was
almost too great. A mist came before her
eyes and she put her hand upon the
writing-table, she dare not move. Mr.
Richardson, seeing her emotion, got a
chair and made her seat herself.

*' You are quite upset," he said, smiling.
' I am afraid he alarmed you, and of
course you Averse not prepared for such a
declaration."

She had recovered her self-possession
and answered with a smile, 

It was rather formidable. We were
quite alone, and once or twice he looked
so fierce, I almost thought he was going to
throw me into the water."

* You are better now, that is right ;

just wanted to speak to you about it
because it is rather an awkward affair.
Marion"

"Well," as lie paused, '' what does
Marion say ? ' '

She seems to take it very much to
heart, though from what she said, I
gathered that for some time she lias suspected
him of want of faith . But the extraordinary
part is that she persists in
asserting that you have all the time been
aware of his preference for you, and have
done your utmost to encourage him. Of
course I did ray utmost to get the idea
out of her mind, but she is very
determined, and I wanted to prepare you
a little."

She rose impulsively from her chair*
and raised his hand to her cheek.

What a delightful man you are, and
how different from our worthy friend the

column. You always thought better of
me than I deserve, and now the
disproportion between your esteem and
my deserts is embarrassing."

"What on earth do you mean ? "

*' Marion is right. I did. see that the
column was transferring 2: his valuable
affections from her to me, and I did
deliberately lead him on."

"Is that really so?" he asked in a
voice of some distress.

Yes. I would not have troubled you
with such a confession, but I thought you
ouoht to know."

I am very sorry to hear it."

She did not speak, but looked down at
the carpet.

'' What made you do it ? " he asked at

1/

last.

I had two reasons : one was that I
had been studying his character, and I

wanted to make experiments upon Mm.
You cannot imagine what an interesting
occupation that is. It is like planning
a game of chess in your head and seeing
all your theories come out right."

He smiled a little dubiously, both at her
words and the tone of enthusiasm in which
they were spoken.

We will talk about that later. Let
me hear your second reason."

The second reason is that, having
learned all I could from him, I grew tired
to death of him and his solemnity. He
bored me beyond description, and my
one object was to get rid of him as soon as
possible."

He bit his lips to hide a smile as he
asked, 

'well?"

'' So I brought matters to a crisis as
soon as I could. I knew that when they

had reached the point they have done, he
would have to go."

'' And now you have attained your
object ? "

I hope so. He has gone, I suppose."


"Yes, he has gone. Your plan was
excellent, and thoroughly womanly. In
some ways, Martha, you are wonderfully
like your mother."

She said nothing, and he went on, 

Could you not have compassed your
object without wrecking Marion's hopes."

*' I did not wreck them. I gave him no
encouragement until I saw that, as far as
Marion was concerned, it would be all the
same whether I gave him encouragement
or not. You must have seen that he had
given up all idea of asking her to marry
him."

*' Yes, I must confess you are right."

There was a pause and then she laughed
and said, 

"Poor Marion ! I am sorry for her
disappointment. She did so want to get
married."

Mr. Richardson was silent, and she went
on,  

"And I am sorry for our disappointment;
we did so want her to get married."

You are speaking of my daughter,
Martha."

"Ah, yes, I had forgotten; blood is,
after all, thicker than water."

She turned away to the window as she
spoke, and her words were followed by a
silence. Mr. Richardson looked after her
for a time, then he rose, and, standing*
behind her, put his two hands upon her
shoulders. He did not say anything,
neither did she, but when they had stood
for a minute in this way, she put up one

of her hands, and without looking round
drew one of his to her lips, which she
pressed lightly against it. After this, they
turned away from the window and seated
themselves on the chairs they had occupied
before.

AYliat did he tell join ? " asked Martha.

' I believe he told me the truth, and he

expressed regret on Marion's account. I

do not think there was anything more to

say."

Did she see him before he went ? "
'' No, I thought it better not."
You were right, I think. It would
have been a harrowing scene and have done
no earthly good. I suppose you sent for
her and told her about it."

He nodded and she went on, 
She will never forgive me of course,
that we must not expect,' but I do hope,
for your sake, she will not be very

unbending. How did she take it ? was
she angry, or grieved, or majestic, or
what?"

There was a touch of sadness in his
voice as he replied, 

'' I do not seem to have her confidence.
I fear it is partly my own fault. I have
not encouraged her to open her heart tome.
She would tell me nothing, her face
was like a mask, only she spoke very
hardly of you. It was from Ethel I learned
that she feels it very much."

She rose to go, but he stopped her,
saying,

Just one word first, my love. You
seem inclined to let your zeal run away
with you ; try to guard against that. It
might another time expose you to much
greater danger and serious misapprehension."



' I daresay, but when I am really interested,

I forget to take precautionary
measures."

Give me warninoand I will take them
for you," drawing his finger down her
cheek as he spoke.

VOL. I. 

CHAPTER X.

The love and duty that I bear you."

Mahyla's fears were realized ; Marion was
unbending. Stir had gone to her room
after hearing what her father had to tell
her, and under the plea of a headache had
not left it again that day. On the following
morning she had resumed her usual
place in the house, looking only a little
paler than was her wont. She never made
any allusion to the departed guest. She
spoke to her father and sister in her accustomed
tone and manner, but she ceased to
have any intercourse with Martha. Nothing
Aould have induced her to address a single

word to the girl who, she believed, had of set
purpose, out of pure malice and wickedness,
destroyed her happiness. She had vowed
to herself that her hand should never touch
Martha's ; she would not even look at her,
if she met her on the stairs or in the
passages, she stood aside lest even their
clothing should come in contact. Martha
was scarcely either surprised or distressed.
She would have let bygones be bygones
and have behaved as though nothing had
happened. When she saw the attitude
Marion took, she shrugged her shoulders
and let her have her way. But she was
not long in finding out that this estrangement
was exceedingly distressing to Mr.
Richardson ; it caused him both pain and
anxiety ; he worried over it and his health
grew worse. He could not insist upon
Marion keeping up an appearance of harmony
because he could not now assert that

a 2

Martha was altogether innocent in the
matter. He lead a slight attack, and
Martha, alarmed, put aside her own feelings
and asked Marion to appear, at least
in the presence of her father, as if she
had forgotten. Marion stared in rather
haughty silence. Then Martha parted
with her cherished secret, and said that
Mr. Richardson was far from strong and
that this unfortunate affair with its results
had not been calculated to give him mental
repose. Ethel was present, and Marion
turned to her saying, 

*' I should think we ought to know the
state of papa's health best, should not
you, Ethel ? He never complains and he
looks well. I do not think we need feel
alarmed."

Upon this, Martha had, contrary to her
custom, grown angry, and said, 

*' You must do as you please about it,

on]j when the time comes, do not say I
did not give yon warning."

That attempt having failed, she made

np her mind to speak to Mr. Richardson

about a plan which had lately suggested

itself to her. Since the day of Mr. Knox's

departure, he had never been mentioned

by either her or her guardian ; he was too

much pained by the whole occurrence, and

perhaps he felt it a little hard that in

these difficult and painful circumstances it

was his ward and not his daughter who

had shown the truer love for him. Martha

scarcely troubled the sisters ; when in the

house, she sat habitually in his study, and

at table, while speaking less than usual,

what she said was addressed wholly to

him ; but even when they were alone, they

never spoke of the column, and so Martha

had to employ all her resolution to speak

of the tacitly forbidden subject and of the

plan wliicli she had formed as she thought
of it in her walks over the hills and her
silent watching of the dying year.

One morning she went into the study,
and going up to where Mr. Richardson
was bending over the writing-table, she
gave a little caressing pull to his hair and
said, 

'' I want you to come out with me."

It does not seem to have occurred to
you that I may not be able to come."

You are coming. I want to talk to
you, and you know I can never say what
I mean so well in the house as out of
doors."

You mean you cannot be so persuasive.
That may be true, there is something
about you which seems in harmony
with nature. If you ever have to refuse
a lover, take my advice and do it in the
house, out of doors he would never consent

to give up hope ; you always look your
very best in the open air."

'You have forgotten the column."

The column ! I had decided we would
never mention that man's name again."

So had I, but I think we shall have to
break our vow. It is not exactly about
him, but in connection with him, that I
want to talk to you now."

'* Oh, well, in that case, we had better
go out of doors."

She got him into the hall, gave him his
hat, helped him on with his coat, searched
for his stick in the umbrella-stand, and at
last led him away captive, as he said, into
the garden.

** Where are we going to?" he asked.

I thought of the moors on the other
side of the lake, if that will not be too
far for you."

I can manage it very well to-day, this

wonderful air puts new life into me, and I
feel capable of much."

'' You begin to understand the feeling of
immortality which I have in fine bright
weather or when things have gone very-well
with me. At such times I feel like
a bird, as if I weighed about a quarter
of a pound and could fly if any one
lifted me from the ground. Of course
trouble and worry seem no longer to
exist."

'' You are a marvellous creature," he
replied, pressing the hand which she had
slipped under his arm.

They did not speak of Mr. Knox until
they were seated in a warm sunny place
on the heather, with the calm lake below
them, the Pike rising grandly on the
opposite side, and all around the woods in
the pomp and glory of autumn. The
scene was one of surpassing peace and

beauty, the stillness so intense it seemed a
sacrilege to break it.

Martha felt as if she could not speak,
her motive in making this proposition
might so easily be misunderstood. It was
only the conviction that she and her
guardian understood one another perfectly
which made it possible for her to
speak at all. She scarcely knew whether
she wanted Mr. Richardson to grant her
request or not, but in the trust that he
would rightly understand her motive in
speaking, she was going to make it. The
first words were difficult to say, and Mr.
Richardson, suddenly rousing himself as
though from a dream, asked  

What did you want to talk to me
about ? "

"About the way in which Marion
behaves ; it distresses you, does it
not?"

He looked at her with rather an
enigmatical smile as he answered, 

My dear, you surprise me ; I know that
your acquaintance with the Bible is only
limited, but you may have heard a saying,
which runs thus, ' Can the Ethiopian
change his skin, or the leopard his
spots ? "'

"Well'*

Well, under given circumstances, it is
Marion's nature to behave in a certain
way, and my nature to be distressed at her
behaviour. Unless you change the conditions
you cannot change the results."

*' You speak as if the conditions were
unchangeable."

And you, as if you proposed to change
them."

How do you know that ? "

"You must know what a sore Marion's
conduct makes in my heart. I do not

think you would have deliberately touched
that sore unless you had a remedy to
propose'*

' Sir,' " she quoted, " ' it is proper to
inform you that our measures must he
healing I am going to propose a healing
measure. I have caused Marion the
greatest disappointment she has ever had.
As long as we are together she will never
forget it, and as long as she does not
forget it, she will behave as she is doing
now. This is very bad for you; it is
destroying your peace and health. The
only cure is for one of us to go away.
Marion has a right to stay, so I propose
that I go."

She had purposely spoken briefly and
plainly. She would not by word, or look,
or tone betray her own inclinations, or
influence her companion. Sure though
she felt of the result, passionately fond

though she was of Mr. Richardson, she
could not resist experimenting on her
knowledge of his character, and having
spoken, she waited in suspense for his
answer.

''To go away from here is rather
vague ; explain a little what you mean."

I cannot stay here always, as you
know. Some time I shall have to go and
try my fortune in the world. You know
what our plan was, that I should live in
some town and write my novels. We had
counted upon my taking the first steps
from the safety and obscurity of Stane-dale.
My plan is that, instead of waiting
until I must go, I take the occasion by the
hair and go now."

It was impossible to keep her voice
quite steady. At the last words it shook
perceptibly. The unsteadiness might be
attributed either to painful emotion at the

thought of leaving her home and the one
person to whom she was attached, or to
the irresistible excitement of anticipating
her new life. Her eyes, as she spoke, did
not meet those of her companion.

She knew she had said a bold thing.
The greatest stranger might give her
credit for filial feeling and attachment,
and a sincere wish to promote the peace
of the household at the expense of her
own happiness. Her warmest friend and
well-wisher, knowing her nature, might be
excused for divining in her proposal the
expression of a hidden wish which gratitude
and affection had hitherto caused her
to keep to herself, and which she took
this first and favourable opportunity of
openly manifesting.

There was silence when she had finished
speaking. She was seated so that her
companion could see her face plainly, and

read every expression which appeared
upon it. Bat he could not see one hand
which she had buried in the heather, and
her fingers were grasping the tough,
springy stalks ready to tear the root from
the ground.

So that is your plan ? "

"Yes; this cannot go on for ever; it
would wear you out. One of us must go,
and for every reason I am the one."

He bent his head, and looked into her
face.

"Do you for one moment believe that
I shall let you go ? *'

She did not raise her eyes, but her
mouth trembled almost imperceptibly at
the corner. For half a second it seemed
as if she were going to smile, but she
repressed it, and said,  

Some time, you know, it will have to
happen''

** Then, some time, it may, but daring
my life you shall never go ! Do you for
one instant imagine that because Marion
behaves like a child for the loss of a man
from whom she ought to be glad to be
delivered, that therefore you are to go
away, to be turned out of my house and
sent into the world as if you had committed
some crime ? My child," his tone
softening as he took her hand, " you shall
never have that act of injustice to reproach
me with."

"I knew you would say that; but,
remember, I proposed this for your sake.
If Marion does not change something
must be done. You cannot go on longer
like this."

** If, after I have spoken to Marion this
evening, she does not change, it is she who
will have to go. I will not have you
driven away."

'' You would do better not to speak; it
will only make matters worse.' She will
think I have been complaining, and will
hate me more. Besides, you would have
to keep your word, and if your daughter
were sent away that I might be made
more comfortable, what would people say ?
Then, remember, I do not care for myself
whether she smiles or frowns upon me."

You shall not go ! What, in the name
of fortune, should I do without you ? "

Come with me. Leave Marion and
Ethel here. They will be perfectly safe,
and we can go and live a vagabond life
and be as happy as beggars."

A brilliant suggestion upon my word.
Since you have developed a regard for
public opinion, tell me what 'people
would say ' if I were to leave my two
daughters to live unprotected, while I
went to watch over my ward in town ?"

They would saj that, considering the
respective characters of the daughters and
the ward, you had shown a remarkable
degree of common sense."

"0, they would not. That is just
what they ought to say, so they would
take very good care not to say it."

At any rate you would have the
soothing consciousness that you had done
right."

Ah, now ! there is some sense in that.
Since we are speaking about these things,
I may as well tell you that I hate the
thought of your living alone ; you are not
in the least fit for it."

"Why not?"

*' There is that peculiarity you have
which prompts you to prostrate yourself,
figuratively speaking, before any one who
has been kind to you. It is a very attractive
feature in your character, the more so

VOL. I. * R

because sou aise often unreasonably hard
to people who have the misfortune not to
please you ; but it will be of little practical
use, nay, rather in your way, in the course of
your battle with the world. You ought to
have someone with you to guard you
against yourself."

How wise you are ! about how many
people do you suppose I shall meet, who
will be kind to me ? "

One will be enough to do all the
necessary damage."

Then I am not to go away before I
must."

*' Only by your own wish."

He spoke gravely, but there was no tone
of inference in his voice. It evidently did
not occur to him to suspect any hidden
purpose in what she had said.

There are one or two other matters
upon which I should like to speak to you,"

said Mr. Ricliardson presently, " we may
not have so good an opportunity again."

Your tone tells me there are business
matters, so let us get them over by all
means ; you know business is not my
forte."

'* Facts and figures are naturally distasteful
to you, certainly, though your
head is so clear. One thing is about my
will. We were speaking a little time ago
of your share of my money. Are you
still of that opinion ? "

Yes, and you too, I suppose."

You are right, I want you to have a
third."

I will not have a third. Do you not
see that, if you leave me equal with your
daughters, it will embitter them against
you, and make you a subject of strife, and
I will not have you made a subject of strife.
If you will leave me a hundred a year,
B 2

I shall be very grateful to you, and I shall
be independent. With that certain, I shall,
have no need to write pot-boilers, and it
will be a pleasure to owe that to you.
But, if you love me, let it be no more."

A hundred a year is such a pittance."

'' It is independence. Besides, you
forget that I am going to make a vast
fortune with my novels. Before long,
your hundred a year will have sunk to the
proportions of a mere seed to keep my
memory green for you. Four times a year,
at any rate, I shall think of you. You
will scarcely ask more than that."

I am greedy, I exact a thought for
every day."

'you unreasonable old man ! and like
most unreasonable people, 1 have no
doubt you will get what you want."

Good girl."

*' And now the other things ? "

The other thing is less simple, but
you have lately shown me that it is
necessary."

*' How solemnly you speak ! I feel
quite nervous."

"It is I who feel nervous for you. I
want to warn you against the zeal with
which you pursue your art. Try not to
be so reckless in jour studies ; you are so
unutterably, fearfully careless. Some day,
if you are not more prudent, you will bring
some great disaster upon yourself or somebody
else."

I hope sincerely it may be somebody
else."

So do I, but be serious for one
moment. You laugh now, you are young
and strong, with every confidence in your
own skill and firmness. But you have
had a little lesson which ought to teach
you that you cannot probe a man's inner

ENTHUSIAST.

most nature, and lead him through every
phase of emotion, with impunity. Such
a practice is  for a woman  Literally playing
with fire ; sometime you will be
scorched in your turn."

'' I do not know whether I am scorch-able."


'' Don't you, don't you ; are you sure ?
I do. I can imagine you passionately in
love, and I hope I may be alive when the
time comes. Only take care it is with the
right man. For heaven's sake don't
marry out of iique or gratitude, and then
find you have made some wretched mistake
which you will never be able to set right.
It would be the greatest folly of which you
CO aid be guilty."

She coloured deeply, and then went
very pale. After a moment's silence, she
laughed gaily, saying, 

I should be very sorry for the unfortunate

man who was the victim of my folly ;
should not you?"

*' Extremely, I am speaking as much for
Lis sake as for yours."

' I thank you in his name. Seriously
though, I must work in my own was
Ashen I see a man falling in love with me
I cannot resist trying him, and leading
him as far as he will go, I mean, in the
interests of my art."

''I don't like it; if you are speaking
seriously, you ought not to live
alone."

'* T am speaking seriously, but you may
trust me. Nothing more than I choose
will ever happen to me."

For heaven's sake take care what you
are doing," he said nervously.

She burst out laughing as she replied,


** Heaven and I are strangers, but if

you really cate about it, I will try to be

careful."

* * *

This was almost the last conversation
about such things which they had. Early
in the winter Mr. Richardson's health
began to fail. In spite of every care he
grew weaker, and in the spring he died.
As soon as he was dead, Martha left the
room and never entered it again in the
daytime. But Marion and Ethel knew
that, as soon as everyone had gone to bed,
she returned to the room where the deadman
lay, and stayed there till morning.
On the day of the funeral she went out
early, and did not come home till late
in the evening when it was already dark.

CHAPTER I.

New love, new life."

Milford is one of those places of which it
is necessary that the inhabitants should be
either natives or attached to it by strong
social or business ties if they are to find
life within its streets enjoyable. It is
large and ugly, even amid large and ugly
provincial towns; it contains spacious
squares and handsome public buildings, it
has interesting historical memories, and
many clever and cultivated people live
there, nevertheless it remains a place from
which to flee Large and populous though
it is, probably all the people who crowd its
streets make a virtue of necessity. The
B 2

climate is abominable ; the east wind
begins its ravages earlier, and continues
them later in the neighbourhood of Rilford
than anywhere else in the world. Summer*
comes late, and slinks away betimes as
though ashamed of a place which does it
so little credit. Bat, perhaps, autumn is
of all the seasons the one which is most
unpleasant. Even in these murky streets
there is a freshness and crispness in the air
which suggests country lanes with golden
brown hedges and ripening berries, and early
morning mists, and mild hazy sunshine
alternating with wild storms, when heaven
and earth seem met together to try their
respective strengths ; all of which only
bring more forcibly home to the dweller of
Rilford the unspeakable dreariness and
dinginess of his place of abode. Some
people feel this more than others ; others
again do not seem to feel it at all, and are

much amazed at those who at this season
feel incapacitated for their ordinary work.

Cuthbert Fleming was among those who
felt it most. This was the first autumn he
had spent at Rilford, and he was tempted
to vow that it should be the last. But for
the little mystery which he had chosen to
weave for himself, and was now determined
to unravel, he would have been inclined
to throw up his post as dramatic and
musical critic of the Rilford Herald, and
seek a similar one elsewhere.

He had lived at Rilford not quite a year.
He was the younger son of an old north-country
family, and from the earliest time
when he could form plans for his future,
he had made up his mind that he would
lead a literary life. He had written his
first essays when he was quite a boy, but
had not succeeded in publishing them.
One of the publishers with whom he had

corresponded had given him some good
advice upon which he had acted, and after
a few years spent in study, reading, and
practising various kinds of writing, he had
brought out a volume which at once became
the leading topic of conversation in the
literary world. From that time his success
had been assured, and by the day on which
he was sitting rather discontentedly smoking
a cigar in his lodgings, and looking out
upon the rain, he had acquired a great
reputation as an essayist, and so much an
authority upon certain other matters as to
know that, if he decided to give up his post
on the Belford Herald, he could easily find
one equally good somewhere else.

It was rather a whimsical reason which
kept him in the city of smoke and dirt,
and caused him to visit assiduously at all
the houses where he was known ; and there
is very pleasant society in Rilford for

those who are privileged to enjoy it.
Fleming, for various reasons, had been
well received in the town, where music
and the drama met with an appreciation
which sometimes filled him with
amazement. During the winter he had
spent in the town, he had scarcely had an
evening to himself. Sight after night he
had gone to concerts, and concerts
generally of a strictly classical nature.
They were always well attended ; most
frequently every seat was filled, and every
inch of standing room occupied in the
great hall, where the principal concerts
were held, and which was only one out of
several concert-halls in the town. The
drama, it is true, was in a state which
moved him alternately to laughter and
fury, though he listened with all gravity
when he was assured that many actors
and actresses of world-wide repute had

made their first appearance on the Rilforcl
stage. Rilford prided itself on its
discrimination in these matters, and was
fond of repeating that performers who
had delighted all London had failed to
satisfy the more exacting provincial public.
Fleming, as before said, had met with an
unusual amount of kindness and hospitality
since he had come to the town, and he
had made the acquaintance of many
people whom he had found interesting and
intelligent above the average ; yet, with
the proverbial ingratitude of his race, he
would have thrown all these to the winds,
and have shaken the dust of Rilford off his
feet without a pang, had it not been for
the mystery which he was determined to
solve.

It was a most simple thing, and had he
asked any one of his friends or acquaintances,
he would probably have learnt at

once what he wanted to know. But he did
not choose to ask ; he had taken it into his
head that he would find out for himself,
and, when he had taken anything into his
head, it was not a trifle which would put it
out again.

This is what had happened. In the
early spring of this same year, when the
concert season was nearly over, he had
gone as usual to the Concert Hall, and
was occupying his accustomed seat. It
was the moment before the concert began,
and he had been talking to a friend, and
from time to time casting a glance at the
chair next his own (he always sat at the
end of a row), and wondering if, contrary
to custom, there was going to be one seat
left empty in the hall. He was sure it was
going to be so, when, after a momentary
burst of applause, the conductor imposed
silence with a wave of his baton, and the

man to whom lie himself was talking
returned on tiptoe to his seat. It was the
very last moment, and he was just seating
himself, when he became aware that a late
comer was advancing up the hall. It was
a woman, yoimg and alone ; yet she came
along the hall with as much ease and
unconsciousness, as if she had been moving
in her own drawing-room. Yet she might
well have shown self-consciousness, for,
partly by reason of her position and partly
of her appearance, almost every eye was
turned upon her. She was very tall, with
the grace and freedom of motion of an
animal of the forest, and a face of very
great beauty. Hair of brilliant, glittering
gold, contrasted strangely with eyes, eyebrows,
and eyelashes of jet-black. She
wore a long, simply-made dress of yellow
silk.

Fleming, as he saw her come along,

was dimly conscious that lie was staring.
He lead never seen lier or any one like her
before. She came nearer, and he sat with
his eyes fixed upon her until it flashed
across him that she was coming to him,
and was going to occupy the chair at his
side. Even as the idea came into his mind,
it was fulfilled ; she paused at his side with
a murmured request that he would allow
her to pass.

They did not exchange a word during
the concert ; no occasion for speech arose,
and neither tried to make an occasion.
Nevertheless, Fleming was intensely conscious
of her presence. He knew every
movement that she made, spied every
change of expression on her face. No one
seemed to know her personally, for during
the interval she remained in her seat, and
no one came to speak to her. The second
part of the concert was completely thrown

away upon Fleming ; he gave no ear to it ;
lie was wholly occupied with speculating
on the name and personality of the woman
at his side. He resolved to keep her insight
when she left the hall, after the
concert, and to find out, if possible, who
she was and where she went to. But, in a
momentary pause between the movements
of a concerto, the great bell of the town hall
began to toll ten, and she rose up, and with
a murmured word of apology for disturbing
him, passed down the hall with the same
unconscious grace with which she had
entered it. He did not stay much longer.
Before the concert was over, he also left
the hall, and not meeting any of his friends
on the way, he was unable to ask the name
of the lady.

The next night was at the theatre.
Almost all Rilford was there, for it was
considered to be rather an important

occasion. An actor who, years before,
had made his deut at Rilford, and then
gone to London and won great triumphs
there, had revisited his native town in all
the pomp of his great fame. It was
considered almost a point of honour to be
present on Mr. Stephenson's first night.
Fleming in his critical capacity was there
too ; he had often seen Stephenson in
London, and in this same piece ; he therefore
paid more attention to the audience
than the stage. He was sitting in the
dress circle, and as he turned his eyes and
his glass from one side of the house to the
other, he became aware that, at no great
distance from him, and in a position which
enabled him to see her face very distinctly,
was the same lady who had been his
neighbour in the Concert Hall the night
before. He was both surprised and
amused at the chance which had brought

them together again so soon, and he was
rejoiced to find that, without in the least
appearing to devote especial attention to
her, he could sit and study her beautiful
face, instead of the piece. He promised
himself that this time he would see where
she went, and by a little management he
might be standing near her when her
carriage was announced. In that way he
would hear her name. Lie did not notice
him, she was absorbed in the play, and
seldom took her eyes off the stage ; she
followed every word, gesture, and action of
the actors and actresses with the closest
attention. Sometimes he saw her smile
and nod to herself, or she frowned and
shook her head almost imperceptibly, and
her disapprobation as well as her applause
was for herself alone. She was evidently,
for some purpose of her own, watching
closely every detail of the performance.

It was plain that lie was alone, and an
exclamation of annoyance and impatience
almost escaped him when, shortly before
the end of the piece, she drew a tiny watch
from a hidden pocket, and, after consulting
it, rose and left the theatre. Alone as
she was he would on no account have
followed on her heels, and he was obliged
to let her escape him again.

He counted confidently on a third meeting,
and when on the following evening he
was present at a Shakesperian recital, he
looked round the hall with some excitement
and a feeling of expectation. But
the beautiful woman was nowhere to be
seen. At first he could not believe it; but
it was gradually forced upon him that the
object of his interest and curiosity was not
present. He comforted himself with the
thought that she was late, she would come
in presently, it was impossible to suppose

she would not be there, and lie grew quite
angry as every new-comer dropped in, and
one after another the empty seats were
filled. He became nervous and irritable.
When she did come there would be no
place left for her, and he caused his
neighbours a considerable amount of annoyance
by the persistency with which he
turned and twisted in his seat at every
fresh entrance ; and each time he was
disappointed. She did not come, and by
the time of the interval, at the end of the
second act, he had resigned himself to the
inevitable, and made up his mind that he
was not to see her. All the more persistently
did she occupy his thoughts. He
had no ears for the humour of Falstaff, he
was conjuring up and nursing jealously the
image of a tall woman with pale face and
glittering hair. In his mind ran a line of
an old love sonnet, which he had often

thought exaggerated and far-fetched in
sentiment, but which now seemed to have
been written to describe this wondrous
work of nature.

Gold more pure than gold doth gild thy hair.'

He repeated the hue over and over again.
It seemed to shut out every other sound,
and to have a special meaning, born of the
new use to which he had put it.

He thought of her all the evening and
wondered who she was, and when and how
he should meet her again. When the recital
was over and he walked home, her
image did not leave him ; and more than
once, as he sat up writing, he caught himself
murmuring, 

"Gold more pure than gold doth "gild thy hair."

After this, he went of set purpose to one
place after another where he thought he
might find her, but he never met her again

VOL. u.

and tliongli lie began to walk the streets
with watchful eyes, hoping to see her
coming towards him with that unconscious,
inbred grace of movement, he never did
see her. Rilford is a large town, and two
people may walk about its streets everyday
at the same hour for many weeks, or
even months, without meeting.

It was soon after he began his search,
that he formed the resolve to find out for
himself who she was. It touched a certain
vein in his humour, to feel himself thus in
captivity to an unknown charm ; he could
not now have deliberately described her to
any of his friends, either man or woman, and
at the end of the description have asked, 

Now, who is she, can you tell me ? "
Neither could he have borne to get in
answer to his question, 

'' Oh, she is Miss Brown, Jones, or
Robinson. She is handsome, is she not ?

and rather eccentric to go about alone in
the way lie does."

That was the little mystery which kept
him in Rilford. He had made up his
mind not to go away until, in some chance
way resembling the manner in which they
had met, he had found out her name and
circumstances.

It had been in the early spring, almost
at the end of the winter concert and
recital season, that he had seen her; it
was now autumn and he felt more hopeful.
In a short time the winter season
would begin again, and with six months
of constant search, it was impossible that
they should not meet; but this third time
the meeting should have some result.

He was thinking of her as he sat smoking
his cigar, and watching the autumn
rain come down in a persistent, tireless
way, which he had grown to regard as
c 2

peculiar to Milford. As he watched it, he
began to thmk that before long winter
would be upon him, that the previous
winter he had suffered a great deal from
the Rilford climate, and that, if he wished
to avoid similar suffering this year, it
would be expedient to go away for a time,
and brace himself up to meet the coming
foQ:s and frost.

He was not at all strong, and sometimes
he thought he had been really foolish to
settle in such a place as this. There was
consumption in the family, and he did not
think it would require any extraordinary
degree of imprudence or neglect, to
develop the seeds of the family complaint
in himself. He thought he looked consumptive,
he was thin, without the airiness
which should always accompany lack
of flesh. He did not throw off little ailments
as he should have done, and his

complexion was too brilliant and delicate
for perfect health. Otherwise, he used to
say impartially, there was no fault to be
found with his appearance. He was tall
and well made, with good features and
steady, trustworthy brown eyes.

The longer he thought about going
away for a time before the winter had
fairly set in, the more he became convinced
that it was not only a desirable,
but a necessary step to take ; and he
began to run over in his mind all the
places of which he knew, which presented
some attractions besides good air and a
dry atmosphere.

One after another he mentally rejected
them. One was too far away, another
would be dull, a third he knew already
by heart. Suddenly an idea struck
him.

Wells ! " he said aloud, " there is

Wells. The very place I want. Splendid
climate, not too far away, and I have
never been there before. I will go to
Middleton House, there will be as many
people there as I care for, and I can come
back here whenever I am tired. I will go
tomorrow. How about trains ? "

He got the railway guide, looked up
the trains, satisfied himself as to their
convenience, and turned to his writing
with a heart free from care, in spite of a
tendency to consumption, and the fact
that he had not yet discovered the
identity of the beautiful and unknown
woman.

CHAPTER 11.

Ever till now
When men were fond, I smiled and wondered how."

Fleming could not leave Rilford as early
in the day as lie wished, and it was nearly
seven when lie readied Wells. He was
cold and hungry, and under a mistaken
idea that his arrival at Middleton House,
the principal hydropathic establishment
in the place, would be hastened thereby,
he took a cab at the station, and told the
cabman to drive as fast as he could.
The man said nothing, but mounted his
box, and they set off; but soon, to
Fleming's disgust, began to go at footpace.
The driver even got down from
his seat and went to the horse's head,

and the poor beast toiled slowly and
painfully up the steep hill leading to the
moors, on the edge of which stood
Middleton House. Fleming felt annoyed ;
the road was so steep that continual
windings and detours had to be made to
break the hill. He could have done it on
foot in half the time. Every now and
then he put his head out of the window to
look out on the country. It was dark,
and he saw nothing more than vague outlines
of moors and giant masses of rock.
On his right was a house with trees about
it and a great many lighted windows.
The horse seemed, in an irresolute, uncertain
manner, to be steering in the direction
of it, so he made up his mind that it was
Middleton House.

He learned on reaching it, that the
evening meal took the form of high tea
at seven o'clock, so he went to his room

determined to go downstairs and join the
high tea-table as soon as possible. He
had asked the waiter if there were many
people still in the house, and had been
told it had been a very full season, but
that now there were not more than twenty
people left.

He could not explain to himself why he
felt so light of heart and joyous, or what
was the cause of the glow of excitement
which made his heart beat faster than
usual, so he put it down to what he called
his '' shattered condition," in which the
slightest occurrence deprived him of his
ordinary calm, and he concluded that he
had put off his change long enough.

He went downstairs, and opened the
dining-room door. As he reached it, a
burst of laughter came from inside ; men's
and women's voices mingled, and he raised
his eyebrows, saying to himself, 

Apparently a very united family
party." Then lie went in.

As the waiter had said, about twenty
people were seated at the long table, and he
looked towards the end to see who occupied
the head of the board ; as he looked,
he stood still in astonishment.

For there she was at last, seated within a
few yards of him, and just then laughing ashe
had never heard any one laugh before,
pure, ringing laughter, expressive of the
utmost amusement and enjoyment. Ashe
stood looking at her, he caught himself
thinking.

Her heart must be as light as a
feather for her to be able to laugh like
that."

But she had heard the sound of the
opening door, and checking her laughter,
she turned towards him, and bent her head
as though in welcome. It was a very graceful,

gracious gesture, the sroile was yet
curling her hips, and yet the beautiful head
bent proudly. She seemed to think that
recognition of the new guest on her part
was necessary.

Fleming moved forward almost as if in a
dream, and as if in a dream, he seated
himself at the table, and answered the
waiter's request for a choice among various
dishes. The excitement he had felt was
quite explained now. He could hardly believe
that she was really there, and looking
more beautiful than ever.

He leaned back in his chair, and looked
at the other guests. At her left sat a
young man, with a pale, delicate face,
and dark hair and eyes. Next to him sat
a clergyman, elderly and severe-looking,
with a bandage over his eyes. At his
side sat his daughter, a plain, hard-featured
young lady with rather an unamiable face,

wliicli fault she tried to correct hj smiling
continually. He hardly noticed the other
people ; there was nothing remarkable
about them, and the interrupted conversation
having been renewed, he turned his
attention to it.

At first he could not, in the buzz of
voices around him, distinguish anything
that was said, but he saw that the lady at
the head of the table and the her neighbour
talked incessantly to one another
and laughed very often. He was interested
in watching how the plain young lady
listened to every word that was said,
smiled constrainedly at every peal of
laughter which came from the end of the
table, and at last, unable any longer to
remain shut out from the prevaiHug merriment,
she took advantage of a short
silence to bend forward, and leaning in
front of her father, to sav, 

I hope you enjoyed your walk tins
afternoon, Mr. Grant."

*' Thank you, Miss Sharpe," replied the
young man, and Fleming noticed that his
voice was of almost feminine softness ; " I
enjoyed the first part very much, but
I went too far and could scarcely walk
home again."

*' I'm afraid," said Miss Sharpe, with a
smile, " that you let your walking powers
run away with you."

"It is only in Ireland that people's walking
powers run away with them," observed
the president of the table, and there was
an outbreak of laughter among those
sitting near her. She was leaning forward
in her armchair with her arms folded on
the table, and she looked at Miss Sharpe
with a bantering expression in her black
eyes which seemed to annoy that lady, for
she coloured and drew back, saying, 

'' You are really too quick President."

'' I should advise you not to engage
upon a war of words with Miss Golden
said Mr. Grant in a tone of friendly
warning.

Fleming looked up as he heard the
other speak. So the name of the
golden-haired lady was Groldengay; he
was conscious of a feeling of satisfaction.


The conversation continued chiefly
between Miss Groldengay and Mr. Grant,
Fleming only caught a word here and there,
but he heard the frequent laughter either
from her or those sitting near her. Now
and then he caught whole sentences, and it
was easy to see that Miss Goldengay was
herself the life and soul of the party.
Miss Sharpe smiled constrainedly, and
her father was heard to murmur that
laughter and mirth were no doubt

very well in their vay, but in his opinion
people ought to look higher. In
the midst of the laughter, the president
glanced round, and seeing that every one
had finished, rose from her chair and left
the room, followed by the whole company.

The people dispersed in different
directions ; but the majority went to the
drawing-room, and Fleming went with the
majority.

Every one settled down to his or her
favourite evening occupation. A whist
party formed with the speed of old custom,
most of the ladies took out some kind of
needlework, and one young lady seated
herself at the piano and began to
discourse classical music.

Fleming leaned against the mantel-piece
and looked round the room. It needed
no more than a glance to assure him
that Miss Goldengay was not present ;

but Miss Sliarpe was. She was seated on

a couch, near the fire, busy with some

knitting, and taking no part in any of the

conversation. An instinct told Fleming

that she would be pleased if he went and

talked to her, so he drew a chair to her

side, and began to talk about little things

of common interest. Then he asked if

she sang, and she replied in the

affirmative. The young lady who had

been playing at that moment left the

piano, and he besought Miss Sharpe to

take her place. She consented after some

slight demur, and they went to the piano

together. At Fleming's request, she sang

two songs, and he stood at her side and
turned over the leaves. He could not

repress a sigh of relief when it was over,

and she, apparently misunderstanding

its nature, smiled and hastened to say

that she had had very little time for

singing lately and was mncli out of practice.


He escorted lier back to lier seat, and
when tliej lead resumed their former positions,
lie asked, 

'' Do you know the young lady who sat
at the head of the table at tea ? "

*' And who laughed so violently ? '*

She laughed frequently, it is true. No
doubt you prefer gravity ? "

' Xot altogether, but she carries everything:
she does to such extremes. When
she laughs, you hear her all over the
house."

Really ! Perhaps that is a little
teasing for people who do not know the
joke. What did you say her name
was ? "

Miss Sharpe knew quite well that
she had mentioned no name, but she
answered, 

VOL. TT. D

Her name is Miss Goldengay."

I think I have heard it before," lie
said, repeating the name for the mere
pleasure of saying it.

You may have seen it in print. She
writes novels, I believe."

Is she that Miss Goldengay ? " he
asked in surprise. 'why, of course, she
winter novels. I have read them."

''I do not think she has written
many."

'she has written two, and I have
read them both. Wonderfully clever they
are. What a treat to meet the writer
of them. Have you read them ? "

No ; I very seldom read novels."

You should read hers. You lose a
great deal by not reading novels. There
is an immense amount to be learned
from a good one, in addition to the
pleasure inseparable from it."

*' You will scarcely class Miss Golconda's
among the instructive ones ? "

Oil, yes I do. You should read
them. Let me recommend them ; as
studies of character they are of absorbing
interest."

'' She told us she came here to study
character."

Ah ! She has shown a good deal of
judgment in her choice of a field. Has
she been here long ? "

*' She has been here for several weeks.
She came the same day that we did, dear
father and I."
" Has she been alone all that time ? "

Yes. It is surprising, is it not, what
self-possession some people have ? I am
considerably older than Miss Goldengay,
but I do not think I should have courage
to come to a place like this in the height
of the season and stay quite alone."
D 2

People are differently constituted.
Perhaps Miss Goldengaj's pet weakness
lies in another direction."

There was a pause before she
asked, 

Are you an author, too, Mr. ? "

'' Fleming. Yes ; I am what in the
profession we call an inkslinger."

"Do sou write novels too ? "

*' No ; I write essays."

'' How interesting ! May I ask for
your autograph ? I am making a collection,
and have already got some good
ones, though of course they are rather
mixed. I believe Miss Golden gay's is the
last in my book."

'' Then mine shall be the next," thought
Fleming. Aloud he said, 

I shall be very happy to write in your
book. Though Miss Goldengay has been
alone, I have no doubt she quickly made

friends. She seemed very intimate with
that young doctor."

Mr. Grant ? Oh, yes, they are great
friends. They spend all their time together
: whenever you see one you may be
sure the other is not far off."

Indeed, that is very curious. They
must have something in common."

' Yes ; things which at first sight you
would never imagine could interest one
of them. They talk a great deal, and half
the time they spend in theological arguments."


"What in the name of fortune do they
find to say on such a subject ? "

'' You may well ask. I questioned Miss
Golden gay once, and she admitted that
she invents half of what she says. I
thought that very wrong, and dear father
spoke seriously to her about it, but he
made no impression at aU."

I am afraid she is hardened."

She must be. But if you ever happen
to be present at one of their conversations,
you will find I am right."

'* I should never presume to doubt it ;
but I rudely interrupted you, you were
going to say something else."

'' It is of no consequence. I was going
to say that the rest of her time she spends
in a most useless v/ay, playing battledore
and shuttlecock, and any other childish
amusement she can think of."

He was silent with surprise. When
he remembered the dignity with which
Miss Goldengay had borne herself
at the concert and the theatre, it
seemed as though Miss Sharpe must
be censuring some totally different person
; then when he thought of her
laughter this very evening, he began to
think that, after all. Miss Goldengay

might be capable of joining in childish
amusements.

You would have been surprised,"
went on Miss Sliarpe, " if you bad seen
her a week or two ago. Yoa have
observed that she occupies a seat at the
head of the table. One day we were informed
that there had been a meeting of
the directors of this establishment, and that
they would dine with us. Dear father
and I were of opinion that on such an
occasion, Miss Goldengay would yield her
place to Mr. Grant, to whom it rightly
belongs, but to our great surprise she
retained her customary seat. For some
reason she was in the wildest spirits;
it was almost painful to witness such
freedom."

Fleming wished he had been there ; he
was beginning to feel powerfully drawn
towards Miss Goldengay.

Why does she like that place ? " he
asked.

She says because she has an armchair
and on Sundays they fold her dinner-napkin
in the shape of a finn, and put it in
her wine-glass."

Fleming laughed aloud with pleasure,
and Miss Sliarpe went on to describe a
festivity wliicli had taken place the previous
night, and consisted of a bonfire and fireworks,
and which had been got up by Mr.
Grant to please his friend who had never
seen a display of fireworks and had been
much delighted with the exhibition. The
conversation was brought to a close by
the appearance in the doorway of a waiter
who respectfully announced that he had
come to turn out the lights.

Fleming lay long awake thinking of Miss
Goldengay, as he had seen her that evening,
and as she had appeared in the Concert

Hall and theatre at Rilford. Then he
thought of certain passages in her novels
which had fixed themselves in his memory,
and tried to fit the whole together. During
the process, he fell asleep.

CHAPTER III.

Let's talk."

After breakfast, the next morning, Miss
Sharpe gave her autograph-book to Mr.
Fleming, and asked for the pleasure of
having his name added to the list of
celebrities she had already collected. He
stood for a few minutes at the open hall-door,
and then went into the readings.
room to write letters and look at the
papers. It was a wet, stormy morning;
but, from its very sternness, not without
a hope of clearing soon, and he turned
over the papers in cheerful solitude, for
he had the large, pleasant room to himself.
There was nothing of particular interest

in the news of the day, and he had just
2:one to the writings-table when the door
opened, and Miss Goldengay and Mr.
Grant came in. They were talking with
animation, but in so low a tone that
Fleming could not distinguish anything
which was said. They took no notice of
him, but seated themselves in front of the
fire and continued their conversation. He
tried to keep his attention fixed upon his
letters, but could not. He could not help
hearing what the two seated by the fire
were saying, as they raised their voices
from time to time. Miss Goldengay spoke
at some length, and Mr. Grant listened
attentively, balancing the poker between
his fingers. When she had finished,
he said despondingly in his soft
voice, 

Dear me ! I had no idea it was so bad
as that."

He could not catch Miss Goldengay's
reply, but it was accompanied by a low
laugh which made him feel very curious.
He turned resolutely away, and after
finishing the letter he had begun, took uj)
Miss Sharpe's autograph-book and began
to turn over the pages. There was a large
collection of names, most of which were
either preceded or followed by a few
words, a proverb, a line of poetry, or a
motto of some kind. They were all rather
commonplace, and Fleming turned to the
page which his own name was to adorn.
There was only one name and one motto
on it ; the motto ran as follows, 

*' Light heart, light foot, light food and slumbers light,
These lights shall light us to old age's gate."

and the signature underneath was " Mary la
Goldengay."

The lines lodged themselves in his

memory at once. They seemed singularly
appropriate to the woman who had written
them ; she was surely the very incarnation
of light. He forgot his letters over this
page with the one name upon it ; then
he took up his pen and wrote, 

To me, fair friend, you never can be old."

'' Cuthbert Fleming."

He dated it carefully, and then shut the
book with a smile.

'miss Sharpe will think it is addressed
to her, and she will wonder if all ' ink-slingers
' speak of ladies whom they have
known only one evening, as ' fair friends ; '
but it does not matter."

The disputants at the fire had raised
their voices again, and he heard Mr. Grant
say in a tone of triumph, 

Well, explain if you can, how it is that
a horse, a donkey, and a cow, all eat the

same kind of food, it yet assimilates itself
with the flesh of each? How is it that in one
case it turns to cow, in another to donkey,
and in the third to horse-flesh? I don't
believe you can explain that, and you must
admit it is very wonderful."

'' Ingot more wonderful than the fact that
the wise man and the fool may eat the same
food, and yet each preserve his wisdom
and folly. For several weeks dear father
and I have been fed in precisely the same
way. In his case, his food has gone to
increase his stupendous solidity of mind,
whereas mine has only fostered that natural
levity, which is such a stumbling-block to
him."

As she finished speaking, the large
clock outside struck eleven, and Mr. Grant
rose, laughing, as he said, 

'' Will you let me know. Miss Goldengay,
if you are ever at a loss for an answer ?

That is eleven o'clock striking, so it is
time for our game if you will indulge me
again."

*' I will be with you in a minute," she
said, rising also ; '* I must write a note or
two, after that I will come into the conservatory
; I shall be there by the time you
have oot the things."

He went away, and she seated herself
by Fleming's side, dashed off a post-card
and two notes, and then left the room, he
supposed, to join mr. Grant in the conservatory.


Left alone, Cuthbert resolutely devoted
himself to his letters, and presently
finished those which called for instant
attention. He then gathered his writing
materials together, and went along the
corridor to the conservatory.

It was on a level with the garden and,
therefore, slightly below the house ; a

flight of four or five steps led down into
it. It was an immense asphalted space
with walls and roof of glass, and commanding
most beautiful views, on one
side, of the lofty ridge of moor which rose
immediately in front of the house, and
on the other, looking down into the
wooded valley at the bottom of which
wound the river, to the bare hills on the
opposite bank.

Cuthbert, as he halted for a moment on
the top of the steps, had all this beauty
upon which to look ; but he was too much
attracted by the human spectacle just
below to have eyes for anything else.
The conservatory was occupied only by
Miss Goldengay and Mr. Grant, and they
stood at the opposite end to that where the
steps were. Each held a tennis racquet,
and a light and twirling shuttlecock
was flying from one to the other; Mr.

Grant stood erect and motionless, but for
the regular and almost automatic movement
of his arm. Miss Goldengay, on the
contrary, was continually in motion ; now
she made a spring forward, then she bent
back, and with a sudden raising of her
racquet threw the shuttlecock back to her
companion. She was so lost in the game
that she did not see Cuthbert, and he
stood watching her filled with admiration,
for the game was one which called into
exercise all the natural grace and lightness
of her figure. She was counting all the
time, they had got into the hundreds,
and Cuthbert began to feel excited ; he
followed her count exactly, and felt almost
as disappointed as herself when within two
or three of four hundred the shuttlecock
fell to the ground, owing to both players
having rushed towards it at once with the
result that their racquets met with a loud
VOL. ir. E

crash and the shuttlecock fell between
them.

That was a good game," said Miss
Goldengay, with a little breathless laugh,
-as she let her arm fall to her side and
sank into a chair.

I must go now," said Mr. Grant,
looking at his watch. '' Thank you for the

game.

She nodded, and he went away leaving
her alone with Mr. Fleming. She did not
speak, but began to toss the shuttlecock
up as she sat in her chair. She kejt it up
for about a dozen strokes, and then it fell
out of her reach; Cuthbert stooped topick
it up, but she cried, 

'' Thank you, do not trouble ; I do not
want it any more."

"You have acquired great skill in the
game," he said, coming towards her with
the shuttlecock in his hand.

'rit is part of Mr. Grant's treatment."

'' To play battledore and shuttlecock?"


Into ; to get into a glow before going
downstairs to the bath-rooms, and we
found this form of exercise produced the
most thorough and lasting glow."

'' Is that quite fair," he asked, half
smiling.

What, to help Mr. Grant to get into
the best kind of glow ? "

"No, to mimic Miss Sharpe."

'' If you had said imitate instead of
mimic, the words would have had quite
another meaning. Miss Sharpe's style is
Yer} correct and Johnsonian, what could
I do better than imitate it ? "

He smiled as she spoke, and she
asked, 

Why do you smile ? "

'with your permission, I will not tell

 2 JBWAR1



you until our acquaintance is a little

older," was this reply.

She raised her eyebrows, but made no

objection to his secrecy ; and presently

she rose and pulled open one of the large

doors by which she had been sitting.

'rit is fine," she said, putting out her

head, and lifting her face to inhale the

air from the moors. '' I shall go for a

walk."

May I come with you ? " asked

Fleming, speaking on the impulse of the

moment.

She consented, and event to get ready.
As Fleming waited for her in the vestibule,
his eyes fell upon the visitors' book, and he
turned over the pages until he came to
one upon which was written, in the same
handwriting which preceded his own in
Miss Sharpe's book, the words, 'miss
Goldengay, Rilford."

'' Good," he said, closing the vokime,
*' she lives there."

At that moment Miss Goldengay rejoined
him, and they left the house together.
They took the high moorland
road which went past the house, and
Cuthbert said, 

I have seen you before, Miss Golden-where?"

she asked. ''I do not
remember you."

'* Perhaps you remember the Classical
Concert at Rilford, where they played the
choral symphony."

"Ah, yes; your seat was next to mine.
I remember that concert, because there was
such a delightful mistake in the HeraWs
notice of it the next day. I think Mr.
Fleming must have been dreaming."

*'I am Mr. Fleming," he replied, 'rand
I was dreaming."

What an odd coincidence ! Then you
are Mr. Fleming, the essayist ? "

Yes. I have just been told that you
are Miss Goldengay, the novelist."

'' You have not been at Rilford long, I
think ? "

Not twelve months yet, and you ? "

I have lived there four years."

You have more endurance than I. I
have already thought of deserting my post."

She shrugged her shoulders, as she
replied, 

In some respects it is atrocious
enough ; in others it suits me perfectly."

'' It depends so much upon circumstances,"
he said. '' I live quite alone."

So do I."

In what part of the town, if I may ask ?
My quarters are in Fen ton Street."

And mine in Devonshire Street. I am
surprised we have never met before."

*' You would be more surprised," thought
Fleming, " if you knew low I had sought
you."

'' Oh," he said aloud. ' I am very little
at my place. I have chambers in town,
and spend most of my time there."
She said nothing, and he went on, 
'' May I ask if you live alone from
choice?"

'' No, from necessity. I have no parents,

and know nothing of my few relations.

Those who live in England are, probably,

not aware of my existence, and my Polish

ones will certainly never come here to me."

'' You have foreign relations ? "

My mother was a Polish woman."

The sweet un-english name, which had

so attracted him in Miss Sharpe's book was

explained. He felt very much interested,

and after a few' questions succeeded in

drawing from her a great many particulars

AN ENTHUSIAST.

about her life, both on the Continent and in
England. She told him much about Mr.
Richardson, and he Alas both amused and
interested by her description of the friendship
which had existed between them.
She mentioned his daughters, and told
very simply how they had quarrelled with
her after their father's death, because
he had left her an equal share of his
property.

Have you never met again ? " asked
Cuthbert.

No ; but a short time ago I made a
very amusing discovery. The eldest is
married to Mr. Grant, that doctor
with whom I was playing in the conservatory."


Cuthbert failed to see in what way the
discovery could have been amusing, but
she entered into no particulars, and he
asked no questions, though he did not

understand the queer look wbicli came into
her face as she spoke.

And, I suppose, you went from Stane-dale
to Milford, and straightway began
your career as a novelist ? "

My first was written before I left
Stanedale, though I had taken no steps
towards brino-inof it out'

'' I remember it. I read it with a great
deal of interest, and later bought a copy,
which I keep in the front row on my bookshelves."


'' I am glad you liked it ; I believe few
people did."

He did not speak at once, then he said, 

I should very much like to ask you a
few questions about your writing. Miss
Goldengay, if I may."

Certainly, do not hesitate."

'was. your first book accepted at
once ? "

'' Not quite at once. I think the third
publisher to whom I appeal, thought well
enough of the manuscript to risk some-think
upon it."

He probably saw that the risk would
not be very great."

I cannot think that it was so.
Although every individual opinion I heard
of the book was even more favourable than I
had expected, it was not well received, and
did not sell well."

He was rather surprised at the calmness
with which she spoke; the book might
have been written by a perfect stranger to
her.

''Do not let that trouble you," lie
answered. '' The book had an immense
amount of promise in it, and I cannot but
believe that the promise will be fulfilled.
I look forward with very great interest to
your second."

You speak very kindly," she said, a
little absently, and then was silent.

He waited sometime for her to go on ;
but, as lie said nothing more, he asked, 

'' When will your third be out. Miss
Goldengay ? "

I cannot tell you. I have sent it to
various publishers, but without success."

Impossible ! " he cried.

'* iS'ot at all ; but I am annoyed about
it, because it is so very much better than
the others, and I am foolish enough to have
contracted a deep affection for it. I had
looked forward to its appearance. I now
fear it will never appear at all."

'what is it like?"

*' Did it not strike you in reading the
other, that there was a want of incident in
it?"

I did not notice it. I do not much
care for novels of incident, and I was

deeply interested in following the development
of character. But, looking at it from
the reviewer's joint of view, it is possible
that that fault might be found with it."

'rit is a fault all the reviewers found.
In this book there is almost less incident."


'' To how many publishers have you
sent it?"

It was declined by the third a few days
ago. I shall find it at home when I go
back to Rilford."

'' How long' ao;o was that ? "

She told him after a little calculation.
It had been on the same day, when,
according to Miss Sharpe, the directors
had dined with them, and Miss Groldengay
had been in such high spirits.

I am going to make a bold request,"
he said, '* considering the shortness of our
acquaintance."

*' Do sou measure acquaintance by
time, " lie answered ; " I do not. There
are people with whom I am friends
in an hour, and others with whom I
should not be intimate if I knew them all
my life. Ask what you choose."

It was a reckless thing to say, but
characteristic of Martha, and Fleming
made a mental note of it.

I am going to ask, if you will trust
your manuscript to me ? I should read it
with great interest, and I might be able
to make some suggestion which could be
useful to you."

Thank you," she replied. *'I should
never have offered to burden you with it ;
but, since you ask, I shall take advantage
of your uneasiness."

' When I have read it, I shall further
ask you to let me tell you exactly what I
think."

You will find that I can support the
truth even if I do not like it."

They exchanged addresses, and then
began to talk of other things  the people
staying in Middleton House were discussed,
and Mary la told her companion
about Mr. Grant, and the interest she had
found in studying his character. Something
she said, made him say, 

"You speak as if you Avould meet him
attain."

'' I shall meet him again. Some day
you will encounter him in the streets of
Milford."

'' Shall we ever meet again ? " he asked,
irresistibly impelled to ask the question.

He looked straight at her as he spoke,
and she returned his gaze full and direct,
she seemed to read his very soul. Then
she turned away with a smile, saying, 

'eyes, we shall meet again."

Why do you smile ? " he asked breathlessly.


'' Ah, you ask too much. You are very
fond of questions, Mr. Fleming."

She spoke rather drily, and had hardly
finished speaking, Ashen he said, 

I beg your pardon."

*' Please," she said, with a little gesture
of dismissal, and translating, as even
yet she sometimes did, direct into
English from another language, which
at one time had been more familiar to
her.

They were now standing still, having
come to a wall against which they leaned
and looked back in the direction in which
they had come. They were on the too
ridge of moor, and could see down into
the valley on the other side, where a little
town was visible, and some tall chimneys
spoiled the view. The wind had dropped

a little, but the air still ble\v fresh and
keen upon them ; tliej would have it in
their faces going back. Looking towards
Wells, they saw the whole valley, with
the winding river looking fallen after the
heavy rain, and trees which the rough and
ruthless hand of the wind had almost
stripped of their autumn glory. The sky
was blue, with great masses of white
clouds floating in it ; clouds which kept
turning very black, though the rain did
not fall again. Every now and then the
sun burst out, and lit up the whole
country-side, throwing huge, shapeless
shadows on the hill-sides, and letting them
see Middleton House, with its rows of flat
windows and square tower at each corner.
When the sun was not out, the house was
too nearly the colour of the moors, on the
edge of which it stood, to be distinguishable.
It was such a long, steep climb from

the village to the house, and now from
where they stood it seemed to lie quite low
down in a hollow.

They looked down into the valley in
silence for a few minutes, and then Martha
asked, 

Were you ever at Stanedale ? "

That is where you used to live ? Iso,
I have never been there, but I have heard
of it as being very beautiful."

'' It is the most beautiful country I have
ever seen. This is beautiful, very beautiful,
but Stanedale was different."

'' Do you ever go there now ? "

*' I go every year in remembrance of
Mr. Richardson."

When they got back to the garden they
saw Mr. Grant taking a constitutional
round the tennis-ground, and Martha
called a greeting to him as she passed.
He replied, and she laughed at his answer ;

VOL. II, p

and was still laughing when she went into
the house. Mr. Sharpe stood in the
vestibule, and as she passed him, he put
his hand affectionately on her arm and
said, 

'' Always laughing and in high spirits,
Miss Goldengay. It is charming to hear
your voice, but do you not think the true
Christian sometimes prefers a cheerful
gravity?"

She made no reply, but passed on and
went upstairs to her room.

It was not until evevj one was in the
drawing-room, after tea, that Cuthbert
returned Miss Sharpe's autograph-book.
She was busy counting stitches, and
merely put it by her side upon the couch
without opening it. Presently Martha
came in, and, after saying a few words
to Miss Sharpe, lifted the book from, the
couch and sat down. She kept the book

in her hands, and, as she talked, tinned
over the pages and read the names
written on them. Cuthbert, watching
her from another part of the room, was
keenly alive to everything she did. He
saw that at last she came to the page
bearing her own name and his. She
looked at it for a moment, with an odd
smile growing on her lips, then she drew
Miss Sharpe's attention to it, saying something,
he could not hear what, but the
smile deepened, and he could well imagine
the expression on the beautiful face, for
Miss Sharpe, after reading what he had
written, and lifting her eyes for a moment
to Martha's, became nervous and confused,
her colour rose, and she appeared half
offended, half pleased. Miss Goldengay
looked at her all the time, and then closed
the book and left the room.

F 2

CHAPTER IV.

'* I am always bound to you."

These things happened on Saturday ; on
the following Monday, Martha went home,
and a few days later, Fleming returned to
his work. He felt quite a different man
from when he had come to Wells, and
with the discovery of Miss Goldengay's
identity, all wish to leave Rilford had left
him. He felt quite a glow of affection ashe
drove through the dingy streets on his
way home. His landlady, with whom he
was on the best possible terms, expressed
her pleasure at the change in his appearance,
and suggested that he should more

frequently allow himself a week in the
country. He laughed as lie replied, 

Yes, there is an immense amount of
good in country air, Mrs. Johnson, and
sometimes we find the oood comes back to
town with us."

A few days later, he found when he got
home in the evening a large brown-paper
parcel which had come during his absence.
He smiled and rubbed his hands when,
having opened it, he found it contained
Miss Groldengay's manuscript. There was
no accompanying note, nothing but her
card, '' With Miss Martha Goldengay's kind
regards."

He was anxious to read the manuscript
at once, but his time was just then fully
occupied, and a fortnight passed before he
wrote the foUowinof note : 

"Dear Miss Goldengat,  I have read
your new novel with very great interest

and slioulcl very much enjoy talking it over
with you. May I call upon you at anytime
convenient to yourself ? With kind
regards,

Believe me,

'' Yours faithfully,

CuTHBERT Fleming."
He felt a little excited when he had
posted his note, and wondered when he
would get a reply. It came by return of
post. Later, when he knew Martha very
intimately indeed, he often wondered how it
was that while she possessed many habits of
almost criminal unbusinesslikeness, she yet
instinctively answered all her letters by
return of posh, and never failed to date
them with the strictest accuracy. By this
time her peculiar, though perfectly legible
handwriting was quite familiar to him, and
he opened and read the note with pleasure-able
anticipations. It ran as follows : 

"Dear Mr. Fleming,  I shall be glad
to see you any evening this week after
half-past seven. With kind regards,
'' I remain,

'' Yours very truly,

Martha Golden gay."
A mere scrap of a note, shorter even
than his own, but he held it open in his
hand for a long time, and when at last he
sat down to write, he propped the envelope
up in front of him that he might keep it
in sight.

Various engagements made it impossible
for him to appoint an evening for going to
Devonshire Street, but one day he found
himself unexpectedly at liberty, and he at
once determined to go.

It was about a quarter of an hour's
walk from Fenton Street to Devonshire
Street, though to Cuthbert it appeared very
much longer. Perhaps he never felt more

disappointed than when in answer to his
question if Miss Goldengay were at home,
he was civilly told she was not. He could
not restrain an exclamation of dismay,
and the woman at the door took pity upon
him.

'' Miss Goldengay is only gone to the
post," she said, almost soothingly. '' She
will be back in a moment ; will you come
in and wait ? "

He went in and was taken into Miss
Goldengay' s sitting-room. When he was
alone he looked round with curiosity, he
was so interested to know how she lived.
It was a large room with two windows ;
the grate was old-fashioned, with hobs, between
which burned a large and cheerful
fire. Low easy-chairs and little tables
which stood about, he felt, must belong to
Miss Goldengay, as well as the photographs
which were fastened against the



walls, and the pretty pots filled with ferns
and chrysanthemums, and at which he
looked in some surprise. Only very rich,
or very extravagant people bought chrysanthemums
in the Rilford shops, "or,"
he thought with a sudden flash of jealousy
which surprised even himself, " perhaps
some one has given them to her."

There were a great many books lying
about, and the large table in the middle
of the room was strewn with writing
materials, and he considered it as significant
that the couch was covered with various
things, which gave him the impression of
having been there for a very long time.

While he was still looking round and
making a note of all these things, he heard
the house-door open and a woman's step
in the passage. The new-comer was
stopped by the landlady and a few whispered
words were exchanged. Then the

room-door opened and Miss Groldengay
stood before him.

She came forward, and her extended
hand and frank smile of pleasure bade him
welcome as plainly as her words. She
had on a long fur-lined, fur-trimmed
mantle, which had a foreign look. Her
guest being seated, she threw back the
hood, unfastened the curious clasp at her
throat, and let the heavy garment slip off
her, when she flung it over the back of a
chair. She now stood revealed in a simple
gown of some thin material suitable for
evening, upon which Cuthbert looked with
pleasure. He was exceedingly sensitive to
such little details of life as appropriate
dress and the arrangement of a house and
furniture ; from his youth up he had been
accustomed to see the women of his family
come to the dinner-table in evening dress,
and he was weak enough always to feel a

shock when, being invited to spend an
evening en famille among his friends in
Rilford, he often found the women of the
household in dark morning-dresses. The
gown which Mary la wore was a very
simple affair, but it had the effect to which
Fleming's eye was accustomed ; and the
pleasure he felt on finding that Miss
Goldengay went through the ceremony of
dressing for her own private satisfaction,
was, perhaps, out of proportion to the
occasion.

He had seated himself on one of the
chairs of the house, and Martha dropped
into a low-cushioned rocking-chair near
him, and said, 

'' I am so glad Mrs. Jones told you I had
only gone to the post, or you might have
gone away."

I hope I am not interrupting you in
any work. It was impossible to let you

know on which evening I should come.
To-night I found myself unexpectedly at
liberty."

I am very glad to see you. You would
almost always find me at home,  I go out
very little."

"How is that?"

'' I know very few people here, and those
few do not entertain their friends in the
evening."

That is a pity ; after spending
all those years on the Continent you
would find Rilford society worth a little
study."

Yes, I know I miss a great deal. To
make up for it, I have to spend my holidays
at places like Wells."

He felt selfishly glad that she knew so
few people, it was so much on his side, and
he enjoyed the thought in silence. She
spoke first, saying, 

Tell me what you wanted to say to me ;
it was so good of you to come."

It was good of you to let me come,
but I did not see any other way in wliicli
what I wanted to say could be said so
easily."

No ; letters are not satisfactory, and
since I got the parcel back I have been
anxious to see yon."

There was a note of eagerness in her
voice which amused Fleming and made
him smile. She smiled too, sayings 

"You laugh at me. If you only knew
the absurdly deep affection I have contracted
for that book."

I can quite understand the affection,"
he replied, and her face changed at
once.

Ah ! " she said, '' you like it too ? "

*' It astonished me. There is so much
power in it. You have drawn the two

principal characters raasterfally. T do
not mean that thi others are not done
with equal care  they are. You have
mastered that secret of good writing, good
acting, good governing, good everything,
that as much attention must be given to
details as to chief events. But those two
characters of necessity occupy the reader's
attention most, and excite the deepest
interest. You have brought the book
to a very artistic and natural conclusion."


She had listened in silence. When he
had finished, she looked up at him with a
smile, saying, 

*' Let me hear the faults at once, while
your praise is still in my ears."

'* I have no fault to find. I only want
you to alter one or two things, not really
of any importance. I mean they will not
affect the main thread of the story."

They got out the manuscript and
discussed the passages to which Fleming
had alluded. When the various alterations
were arranged, Marjda said, 

' And after?"

Then publish the book at your own
risk."

Really, is that what you advise ? "

It is what I very seriously and strongly
advise. I believe you said that you
dished the idea of publishing in that
way ; but you must distinguish. There is
a wide difference between bringing out at
your own risk a novel which has been
written for the sake of writing, which you
wish to have published for the pleasure
of seeing your name in print, and which
does not contain enough present worth or
future promise to induce a publisher to
risk even the price of printing and paper
upon it, and taking upon yourself the

responsibility of a work which you are
certain will be a success."
She had been listening with her head
rather bent and her eyes fixed upon the
fire. At the pause which followed his
last words she raised her head quickly and
looked at him with the full, direct gaze
which was one of her characteristics.

Are you certain of that ? "

Absolutely. Only let the public have
a chance of judging, and we shall see if
it rejects the book without a word."

You tempt me strongly."

If you take my advice, I am sure you
will succeed. If you do not, you will
repent."

She appeared to be considering what he
had said. At last she spoke, 

'' I would rather the book never appeared
at all than let it fall flat upon the
world."

It will not fall flat upon the world ;
it is far more likely to make your reputation."


Again lie was silent, and lie went on
speaking of the many advantages of
publishing the book in the way he proposed.
He touched on the pecuniary side
of the question, and was almost aghast at
her revelations concerning the way in
which she had conducted the negotiations
about her first book.

I am going to ask you to trust me still
further," he said. 'will you let me take
all the business arrangements out of your
hands ? I think I could manage vie
matter better than you."

'' You are very good, but I do not like to
burden you with such an affair ; you have
already enough to do."

Don't you know that when you want
an extra bit of work to be done, it is a busy

VOL. II. G

man whom you must ask to do it ? If you
will make the alterations we agreed upon,
and then send the manuscript back to me,
I will negotiate with Brown and Turner
about it."

You are very good," she said again,
and he was surprised at the hesitation in
her voice. He did not know that while he
had been speaking, she had been listening
to a faint, far-away voice, which came from
the past, and said, 

One thing more, Martha  do not be too
sceptical. You are the kind of woman to
whom men will be kind, and beware how
you let a man do you a kindness, for the
reward which you give him will be out of
all proportion to the service."

She heard and listened, she almost believed.
If the voice had been living and
present, she might have believed ; but it
was faint and far away, and was overpowered

by one within herself which
said, 

Here is a man willing and eager to
take from me the toil of bargain-making
and money seeking. If I accept his offer
I shall never have to think about such
things again, and the mere thought of themis
hateful to me,  I would give much to be
free from them."

You will have to give much," said
the faint voice. ** In ridding yourself
of one obligation you contract another.
The motto of this world is, ' Nothing
for nothing,' and this man who is so
anxious to serve you will exact his
wages."

He shall have them. The labourer is
worthy of his hire. It has never been my
custom to accept service without giving a
full equivalent in return. He shall have his
reward."

What will lie ask ? Perhaps more than
you can give."

Not justly, for his service is not
more than I can take."

You must not look for justice among
men. They are all usurers and exact
heavy interest."

It had not taken more than a minute or
two for this dialogue to take place in
Martha's mind, and it had been so real to
her that it was with an actual gesture of
reckless indifference that she turned to
Cuthbert, saying, 

'' You are very good, and I accept your
offer with gratitude. I have a natural
horror of money-matters."

They then began to speak of other
things, amongst others of Mr. Grant, and
Martha repeated her conviction that he
would visit Rilford.

I shall be glad if he comes," she said.

I was studying him ; he was an
interesting subject, and I should be sorry
not to complete my observations."

"You pursue your art with great zeal,
Miss Goldengay," said Cuthbert after a
pause.

I have been told that before. Is it
not usual to pursue one's calling with
zeal ? "

'' That I can't say ; but yours is a calling
in which it is prudent to temper zeal with
discretion !"

'' That caution has been given me before,
but I am not prudent. When I take
an interest in anything, I lose myself in it
completely for the time being''

'rand the finding of yourself again ? "

'' How do you mean ? "

'' When you have exhausted the subject,
whatever it may be, and you come back to
yourself, are you quite the same ? "

She began to smile, and the evil spirit
was looking out of her eyes, as she said, 

I believe I once before had occasion
to remark that you are very fond of questions,
Mr. Fleming."

Soon after this she rang the bell,
and the landlady appeared with a tray on
which were coffee-cups, and a coffee-pot,
and all appliances for making coffee. She
put it on the table, and then brought in a
bright little copper kettle which she put
on the fire. When she had left the room,
Martha got up, saying, 

I am going to ask you to smoke the
pipe of peace with me, in the shape of
drinking a cup of coffee. I always make
it myself," she went on. ** Taking into
consideration the nationality and social
position of my landlady, you will understand
that she does not excel in making
coffee."

Lie was by this time busy with the
kettle and coffee-pot, and Fleming sat
watching her with the deepest interest.
She evidently knew what she was doing,
her hands moved in a very clever way
among her utensils, and she talked all the
time.

Coffee-making is the extent of my
housewifely knowledge. If my landlady
were not the kindest creature in the world,
who takes care of me, I should have come
to grief long ago."

They sat and sipped their coffee, and
talked almost without intermission. How
many things she told him, how many
things he told her ! He found himself saying
things which he had never felt tempted
to confide to any one else. He told her
details respecting himself and his family,
which as a rule he left people to find out
for themselves, if they happened to feel so

much interest in him. She heard that he
had no expectation of ever succeeding to
the family property, as it was in the
possession of an elder brother, who had
never had a day's illness in his life, and
was married and in the possession of a
very handsome little boy. She heard that
his two sisters were married, one to a
country squire of vast wealth, and the
other to a well-known Church dignitary,
and that Cuthbert felt vevj little sympathy
with any of his relations. He told her,
too, of his delicate health and its origin,
and at that she looked grave and said
kind things which did him good.

At last he rose to go. He had literally
not been able to tear himself away earlier,
and dawdling over those cups of coffee had
seemed a reason for staying later than he
had originally intended. She went with
him to the door, and recommended him not

to take cold, then the door shut, and he
was left standing alone in the dark.

He went out into the street, took a few
steps and then stood still, drawing a deep
breath. It would have been absurd to
attempt to hide from himself that he was
in love with Miss Goldengay,  blindly,
hopelessly in love. The two or three
hours he had just spent with her had been
so much time spent in Paradise. With
the closing of the heavy house-door he
felt as if the door of heaven had closed
upon him, shutting him out into the cold,
dark world again. He had never been
very sensible of the fascinations of women
certainly he had never met one whom he
had had the least desire to call his wife,
and now, all in a minute, the desire had
come, and he could no more have resisted
it than he could have withstood the
rising of the sun.

He walked quickly home. Though
when he reached his dwelling the fire was
burning brightly and the room wore its
accustomed air of cheerful comfort, he was
conscious of a want. It suddenly occurred
to him that it looked bare. There were
no photographs on the walls, no flowers,
none of the pungent odour of chrysanthemums.
He stood looking discontentedly
around him, and then threw himself into
his armchair by the fire, and clasped his
hands behind his head.

I want her," he said half aloud, '* I
want her for my wife, and I shall be a
wretched failure if I do not get her."

Martha, when she was alone again, rang
the bell for the cups to be taken away, and
then, her eyes falling upon the pile of
manuscript lying on the table, she stood
looking at it for a moment before reseating
herself in her rocking-chair in front of the
fire.

What have I done ? " she thought,
'' and what will be the consequence of
letting that man do half my work for me ?
Why did he offer to do it ? Oh," with a
gesture of the hand, " I know very welland
I must have been mad when I said he
might. What would Mr. Richardson say
if he knew ? and I promised him I would
be careful. How can I be careful ? it is
not in my nature. After all, I do not see
why harm should come of this ; though if
it should come, I must admit that it will
be entirely mj own fault."

CHAPTER V.

"That sweet thing, a weak-minded female."

On the evening when Cuthbert had first
called in Devonshire Street, he had
entertained Martha with a description of his
friend Mrs. Torkington; and before leaving
he had begged her permission to send Mrs.
Torkington to call upon her. About a
week later she came,  on a dull, cold day
when Martha felt as if she would have been
pleased to see any one, even her bitterest
enemy.

She was a striking-looking woman, tall
and handsome, with very fine eyes and
a winning smile. She had not married
until considerably past her first youth,
and perhaps on that account was deeply

convinced of the felicity of a state which
she had not reached without difficulty.
She had lived all her life at Rilford, and
knew almost everybody in the town ; for
that reason, if for no other, Cuthbert had
deemed it expedient that Miss Goldengay
should make her acquaintance. Martha
had not listened to Mrs. Torkington for
long, before she was entirely of Cuthbert' s
opinion. She did not remember having
ever derived so much amusement from one
single person. Not only did she know
everybody in Rilford, but she knew everything
about everybody. She mentioned
nobody's name without attaching to it
some little history, more or less scandalous,
which fell from her soft lips as smoothly
as though she had been saying her prayers.
In the course of the conversation some
people called Fletcher were named, and she
began at once, 

You mean the Fletchers of Higher
Needham. Mrs. Fletcher has been twice
married, you know. She married her first
husband  he was one of the Brookes 
against the will of her parents, and he
turned out such a wretch, she had to
leave him at the end of two years ; fortunately
there were no children. They lived
apart for five years and then he died, or
was killed, I forget which, and she married
Captain Fletcher, whose acquaintance
she had made in the meantime."

'' I do not know anything about that'*
said Mary la.

'' No, of course not, it is not talked
about,  they want to have the whole affair
forgotten. I used to know her at one
time, we were girls together, but after
she left Mr. Brooke" Mrs. Torkinton
drew herself up without finishing her
sentence.

** I thought her very pleasant. '*

Yes, you would like her ; she is intellectual,
fond of plays, and blank verse, and
all that kind of thing; but I am afraid
her intellect has not brought her much
happiness."

She sighed as she spoke, and shook her
head, gazing blankly into the fire.

Was her marriage with Captain
Fletcher a failure too ? "

*' Oh, indeed it vas. He was head over
ears in debt when he married her, and he
ran through her fortune, and then they
had bailiffs in the house and all the furniture
was sold. Everybody went to that
sale ; I was there, and I made such a painful
discovery. In one of the rooms was a
davenport, and I opened the lid to see if it
was the kind my husband wanted for his
smoking-room, and right at the bottom,
under all the papers, was a long lock of

fair hair, and Ada Fie teller is dark, as
dark as I am."

Before Martha could speak she was talking
about something else.

''I do so wish you knew Emmeline
Playfair ; she is such a dear girl, such a
comfort to me, and so pretty, oh ! so
pretty;" shaking her head again, with her
favourite little smile parting her lips, and
showing her white teeth. '' So pretty ! '*
she repeated, " and of the type which I
admire so much; the broad-shouldered,
rather large-waisted type, with gold-brown
hair and blue eyes, purely English. I am
afraid she is going off, though. The last
time I saw her I thought her complexion
was just a little muddled."

I do not know her," said Martha.

No. What a charming man Mr. Fleming
is ! I am very fond of literary people,
very fond of them indeed, but I always

tbiuk they are a little peculiar ; uncertain
in temper, and not altogether to be relied
on ; but Mr. Fleming is quite an exception,
don't you think so ? "

I know Mr. Fleming very slightly," replied
Martha, with an extraordinary access
of prudence.

"' I was so delighted when he asked me
to call upon you. I had read your book,
and longed to know the author. I suppose
Messrs. Brown and Turner wrote to accept
it by return of post."

That would have been nothing !
Imagine telegraphing that if I would only
let them have the story, I might dictate my
own terms."

'' Really, how very flattering ! and a first
work, too. It seems almost incredible
when one thinks of the numbers of people
who have to wait years and years, and often
never get an opening at all. I am on

VOL. IT. H

thorns to see your next  Mr. Fleming says
you have one in hand. But I hope the
heroine will not be as heroic as in the
other. Make her a nice, comfortable,
commonplace girl; commonplace people
are always the nicest."

Ah, Mrs. Torkington, if I had only
had the pleasure of knowing you
sooner."

Mrs. Torkington bridled and beamed.
She dearly loved a compliment, and was
not quick to see below the surface of
things. So now she smiled and looked
at Martha with her head on one side,
saying,

Oh, you flatterer ! What use could
you have found for an old fogey like
me?"

She rose up to go as she spoke, and her
last words, as she stood on the door-step,
were, 

'' Now you loll come and see me, Miss
Goldengay ; promise."

After Cuthbert's first visit, he saw
Marjla frequently. There was much to
be done and said about the book, and he
could not resist the fascination which drew
him to her rooms. When he came home
in the evening tired and lazy, yet longing
for society, the recollection that within
a quarter of an hour's walk there was all
he could and did desire, was irresistible to
him. He knew that if he went about eight
o'clock he would be just in time to see lier
make the coffee which had become his
favourite beverage. He knew just how she
would greet him, and then he would take
the chair which had come to be looked upon
as peculiarly his own, and for a couple
of hours he would be in Paradise. They
would talk of everything, of her books, his
books, and of the books of other people.
H 2

One night they were talking about what
she called her '' first youth," the time
before she had come to England with
Mr. Richardson, and Cuthbert suddenly
said, 

You speak very often of Maurice
Wingfield ; who was he ? Tell me about
him."

He was a young Irishman, who was in
Dresden at the same time that we were.
He was heir to a large estate, that is, his
uncle to whom the property belonged was
a bachelor, and Maurice was his only
nephew. In the meantime, he had no
more than an allowance from his uncle,
and he used to grumble very much at this
waiting for dead men's shoes. He had not
been educated for any profession or, I
believe, he would have thrown up his
chances and struck out a line for himself.
He was one of those people who need to be

thrown on their own resources to bring out
all their strength and character."

What was he doing in Dresden ? "

Staying there merely. He had left
home with the intention of travelling, but
he never got any further."

"How was that? " asked Fleming, with
a pang of jealousy.

He stayed to please mamma."

'' Your mother ? "

Yes, he almost lived at our stage. He
went everywhere with us. I don't know
what we should have done without
him."

A tame cat, in fact."

Mamma looked upon him quite as her
son," went on Maria in a tone of
innocence, which reminded Cuthbert perforce
of the time when he had heard her
putting Miss Sharpe into a state of painful
embarrassment and agitation one evening

at Wells. He knew that to slow any
anger would delight her immensely, so he
only said, 

'' Was she so fond o him as that ? "

She could scarcely bear him out of her
sight. I remember that once, when he
was sent for to Ireland to see his uncle,
who was very ill, she cried bitterly."

'* Did you cry ?''

She laughed, saying, " Would you
confess your little weaknesses with the
simple candour with which you expect
other people to confess theirs ? "

This was no answer at all, but he knew
it was all he would get, and that if he
persisted, she would only torment him
further, so he asked, 

'' Did he come back ? '*

"Yes, he came back in a great rage
with his uncle, who had not been ill at all,
only wishful to see him*

I suppose you never saw him after
sou came to EuglancL"

Ob, yes, several times. He stayed at
a place not far from Stanedale."

He said nothing, and she thought, 

' What an admission to make ! Fortunately
he is made of different stuff from
the column, and it will never enter his head
to go to Stanedale and make inquiries."

"And," said Cuthbert at last, 'has
Mr. Wingfield succeeded to his uncle's
property ?"

How do you know that his uncle is
dead ? It is not a thousand years since it
happened."

Then he is still waiting for dead men's
shoes. I should think it is an occupation
of which one tires in time."

'' No, the dead man's shoes came to
someone else. Poor Maurice ! he has been
very unfortunate."

There was a touch of sadness and regret
in her voice which roused Cuthbert's
curiosity, but he resisted the temptation
to pursue the subject any further, and
soon afterwards went home, leaving the
last word with her.

CHAPTER VI.

How could it end in any other way?"

Early in the spring. Miss Goldengay's
new book came out, and fulfilled all
Cuthbert's hopes and expectations. It
was a great success, and the public very
quickly became aware that a genius had
arisen amongst them. While the book
was going through the press Martha had
a very generous offer for it from Disown
and Turner. Cuthbert came in that
evening, and she gave him the letter,
saying,

I should have sent it to you if you
had not come. Tell me what you think
about it."

What is your own opinion ? " lie asked,
when lie had read it.

'' I am inclined to accept."

How could you think of doing such a
foolish thing ? Why on earth should you
accept ? "

How small you make me feel ! I
thought it would save trouble. I should
get a sum of money, about which I care,
only because I know you will give me no
peace until I can show you a big cheque,
and the whole thing would he settled. I
should have no trouble."

'' There is no necessity for you to have
any trouble. You are not going to have
any. I am going to do everything for
you ; you promised I should, and it would
be absurd to accept such an offer. Keep
to your original plan, and you will make
far more than they offer you here."

'' My original plan, indeed ! What am

I to clo with all this money when I get
it?"

' I shall invest it for you, and lay the
foundation of a large fortune."

That is a brilliant idea. I shall never
make a fortune."

Not if you are left to your own
devices, truly, but I have taken your
affairs in hand, and I intend that they
shall do me credit."

I feel quite unhappy sometimes when
I think of all the work you have done forme,
and of the burden you have taken oft' my
shoulders. Don't you think that by this
time I ought to manage my own affairs ? '*

' I cannot say that I think what you
have just shown me of the way in which you
would do business gives me any encouragement
to hand over your affairs to your
own management."

She leaned back in her chair, saying, 

I have no earthly right to let you do
such things for me, and yet I am so
abominably idle that when you oflPer to do
them, I cannot say no."

'' I wish you would not talk like that.
You must know that you could not give
me a greater pleasure than in letting me
do everything for you. The few trifles in
which I have saved you trouble are not
worth mentioning."

I do know it," was her reply, and she
continued mentally, " for that very reason
I ought not to let you do them."

So the offer of Messrs. Brown and
Turner was declined, and when the book
came out, and Martha saw the success it
had, she was obliged to confess that from
a business point of view Cuthberthad been
exceedingly wise in telling her to refuse
it. Convinced though she was that her
book was good, she was surprised at the

storm of applause it called forth, and
the rapidity with which the first edition
was sold, and another called for. Bespoke
of it to Cuthbert, and he asked, 

How many copies of your first book
were sold ?"

"I have no idea; five hundred copies
were printed, but I suppose they were not
sold, because, if they had been, I should
have had some more money, and none ever
came."

It was of course impossible to write
and ask how you stood ? "

I did not feel any curiosity about it,"
was her reply.

Decidedly you need someone to look
after you."

You think I am a fool ? " she asked
softly.

I think you are almost culpably care-yes,

yes, I know ; if you knew how
often Mr. Richardson used to lecture me
about it, if you knew what an unspeakably
awkward thing once happened to me out
of jure carelessness, you would think I
had had lessons enough to cure a whole
nation of the fault. It is useless to fight
against it, it is in my nature."

Rilford was very proud of the fact that
Miss Goldengay, the successful novelist,
had her dwelling in one of its streets.
Mrs. Torkington went about looking
radiant, and spoke of " my friend. Miss
Goldengay" at every moment. People
who knew the authoress redoubled their
attentions, and those who did not, asked
those w4io did, for an introduction. " To
wake and find oneself famous," is a
hackneyed saying, and one with seldom
more than a grain of truth in it. In
Martha's case, it was almost literally

fulfilled. It is true that her first book
had been noticed as full of promise, and
been read by many people ; but this was so
immeasurably superior, and showed such
power, so wonderful a range of observation,
so keen a sense of humour and
brilliance of diction, that people forgot the
forerunner in the dazzling appearance of
the prophet in person.

Upon Martha herself, her success acted
like a charm. To Cuthbert's watchful
eyes, there seemed a new development
even of her physical beauty. He identified
himself with her triumph, and at one time
felt almost terrified at the new being
whom he had called into life ; he never
forgot their first meeting after it became
apparent that her triumph was assured,
when every one was speaking of her book,
and she was daily receiving letters of
congratulation from people personally

unknown to lier, and whose appreciation
must be considered of high value. He
remembered the note lie got from her
asking him to go and see her, he remembered
going into her pretty, sunny sitting-room,
where the smell of wallflowers
mingled with the sunshine, and he remembered
the impulsive way in which she had
taken both his hands, and said in her soft,
clear voice, 

'' I owe all this to you, and I can never
thank you."

He had watched her very closely, fearing
lest she might change, lest the weight
of her fame might reverse her nature ; but
jealously though he watched, he could
detect no change ; she was strong enough
to bear, without even staggering under ita
weight of public praise and fame which
would have crushed a weaker nature. He
had heaved a great sigh of relief on seeing

that she was the same, when he saw her meet
the people she had known in her class of
obscurity with the same smile and sincere
pleasure she had formerly shown ; when he
went time after time to Devonshire Street,
and heard no mention of her exchanging
that somewhat dim and unfashionable
quarter, for one of greater repute and
further out of toAvn. He was by this
time deeply attached to the faded street,
and if Martha had told him she was gong
to remove, he would have felt sorry and
pained to a degree which she would have
been unable to understand ; but she gave
no sign of wishing to go, and when he
hinted it, in order to see if the idea had
ever occurred to her, he had the satisfaction
of hearing her express great astonishment,
and seeing her settle herself in her
chair, as if she wished to take firmer hold
of her position.

VOL. II. I

This was a great relief to him, and gave
him courage and encouragement. Just at
this time he was thinking of her very
much  night and day she was in his
thoughts, as he tried to discover in her
manner, words, and actions, some sign
that she returned in ever so small a
measure the love he had for her.

He sat alone one evening in his
favourite position, a cigarette between his
lips, and his hands clasped behind his
head, thinking of Marjla, and of all he
knew about her. Had he been able to
follow his inclinations he would have been
with her instead of merely thinking about
her, but she was dining out that evening.
Everything he knew about her passed
through his mind ; he thought of all the
times he had seen her, from the night
when she had sat beside him at the
concert 1o a day or two before the present

time, when she had told him that, m case
he had thought of coming' in on Friday
evening, he might remember that she
would not be at home. This mental
review of their meeting, acquaintance, and
friendship, was an occupation with which
he was fond of filling his leisure hours.
He liked to think about the strange
characteristics she displayed, he always
smiled over them. Over and over again,
he had noticed the way in which she
accepted any offer to do her the most
trifling service ; he contrasted the almost
stiff-necked way in which she had sent
her rejected manuscripts from one publisher
to another, and her determination
to stand upon her own merits. She
had told him once, with a greater display
of annoyance than he had ever seen her
show before, of her chance meeting with
some literary celebrity who had offered to
I 2

give lier a letter of introduction to this own
publisher, wliicli would have ensured the
acceptance of her manuscript ; he contrasted
this with the way in which she had
at once accepted his offer of help, and
abandoned the whole negotiations into his
hands, after having known him for about
a fortnight. Then there was her almost
incomprehensible irksomeness of nature
which contrasted so oddly with certain
passages in her writings. She was unmerciful
in her ridicule of anything like
sentiment in the ordinary affairs of life,
lovers excited her gayest laughter, and yet
she could describe love, its growth, and
power, and effect upon a human character,
with a depth of insight and a keenness of
sympathy, which forced upon her readers
the conviction that she must be very intimately
acquainted with the passion.
He wished he knew more about her

former life. She had never told him her
story in the way in which the column had
heard it, but she had told him things atone
time and another, until he knew more
than the column had ever done ; of all the
people of whom she had spoken, Maurice
Wingfield was the one who excited Cuthbert's
interest most. He often thought of
him, and wondered if there had been any
boy and girl attachment, which might
reappear at a future date and cause difficulty
in the carrying out of his own plans.
He did not think it was likely, Martha had
not the kind of nature which forms early
attachments and remains faithful to them
through life. He was more inclined to
think she would not love until her nature
was fully developed. How he wished that
love would fall upon himself, and he began
to argue and reason upon the chances in
his favour in a way which would have

excited the ridicule of any one more versed
in women's ways, andwliicli always roused
in himself a lurking feeling of unreality on
the surface, everything was too smooth,
too reasonable.

It seemed to him as though every phase
through which their acquaintance had
passed, must of necessity lead to love as
its crowning point. If they were not to
love and be married, what object could
there be in their becoming acquainted at
all ? Moreover, it seemed to him as though
they were made for one another. In spite
of her independence, she had given ample
proof that it was not in her nature to
stand alone, and upon whom was it more
in the nature of things that she should
lean, than himself, her chosen friend and
adviser, the man whom she had honoured
with her confidence upon her most private
affairs ? Their occupations were the same,

and she took almost more interest in
his writing than he did himself. They
helped and supported one another ; it
would be unnatural if such a friendship
did not culminate in marriage. He sat
and dreamed of a life which they would
pass side by side, one of those perfect
marriages of which there are so few. He
thought of it until he distinctly saw Martha
sitting opposite to him, and felt that they
were united for life. It was only when,
completely under the spell, he opened his
lips and spoke to her aloud, that he woke
to reality, and found himself as far from
feeling sure of Miss Goldengay's love as
before.

He felt something like a contraction of
his heart, as he realized how very uncertain
he was. Was not this close
friendship rather against him than in his
favour ? Would any woman, living alone

as she did, receive the visits of the man
she loved, as frequently and in the same
way that she received his ? Had she ever
shown any of the signs supposed to
indicate the presence of a feeling warmer
than mere friendship ? He was obliged to
shake his head, and admit that he had no
encouragement, absolutely none ; on the
contrary, he felt almost with terror that
he had what amounted to a very plain
proof of her indifference.

About a fortnight before the present
night, Mary la had asked him to go and
see her on some slight business question,
an important engagement had forced him
to refuse her, and he had departed on his
mission in a very unphilosophical frame of
mind. He had found himself at liberty,
however, much earlier than he had expected,
and it flashed across him that he would
go and see Miss Goldengay, if only for a

few minutes. With a lover's folly, he was
particularly pleased with the thought of
taking her by surprise. He was by this
time so well known at the house that,
when Mrs. Jones admitted him, she only
bade him good-evening, and left him to
find bis own way upstairs. His footfall
made scarcely any sound upon the carpet,
and in a minute he was knocking at the
door of Martha's sitting-room. There was
no answer, and he knocked again. Still
no answer ; so, supposing she had left the
room for a moment, he went inside. He
closed the door, and took a few steps
forward; then stopped short, arrested by
what he saw.

It had been a chill, damp day, and so
Martha, who as might have been supposed
loved warmth, had had a little fire lit.
The couch, which as a rule was covered
with books and papers, was drawn up to

the hearth, and upon it lay Mary la, fast
asleep. Fleramg, after taking in the simple
fact, went up to the couch, and stood
looking down upon her. He thought he
had never seen a more beautiful picture.
She lav a little on one side, in an attitude
of the most perfect repose, her lips scarcely
parted, her chest scarcely stirred by her
light breathing. She had on a black
dress, which lay rather closely round her
figure, and fell in a soft, full sweep on to
the ground.

Cuthbert stood by her side and looked
down upon her. At first he had held his
breath, fearing to wake her ; but, when he
found she slept on unconscious of his presence,
he grew bolder, came nearer, and
bent his head closer. How beautiful, how
perfectly beautiful she was, and how he
loved her. As he looked all his love
came surging into his heart at once, and

obeying an impulse, momentary it is true,
but to vliicli he must have yielded if he
had argued about it for an hour, he bent
his head still lower, and lightly pressed his
lips to hers. He trembled all over as he
did this, and for one instant he thought
he was in heaven. Then he raised his
head again and looked at ber, and, as he
looked, he came down to earth. While
his heart had been beating till he thought
the loud quick throbs must reach her in
her sleep, her chest rose and fell no
more visibly than before. He was shaking
with excitement, she lay as still as a
statue ; his cheeks were burning, hers
retained their natural pallor. And as he
looked and noted all these things, his
heart grew cold with fear, and a horrible
certainty filled it. She did not love him,
or she could not have received his kiss
like that. If her heart held one spark of

love for him, she must have felt his
presence, his kiss must have wakened her.
She did not love him, and he stood looking
down upon her with an expression of
agony on his face, which grew and grew
until he knew his features were working
under it.

In a few minutes he felt calmer, and ashe
drew a long breath of partial relief,
Martha, without any previous movement,
opened her eyes and fixed them upon
him.

I thought you said you could not
come," she said, after looking composedly
at him for a minute.

He explained how it was that he
had been able to come, and finished by
saying,

I am sorry now that I yielded to the
temptation. I fear I have disturbed you."

Oh, no," she answered, rising as she

spoke. " I woke naturally at the end of
my sleep ; your coming did not hasten it
at all If you will ring the bell, we will
have some coffee. I am glad to see you.
I don't think I have said it yet."

She smiled as she spoke, and gave him
her hand, which he took with a feeling of
guilt. Now that the intoxication of the
moment had passed away, he felt as if he
had committed a sin in thus taking advantage
of the defenceless condition of the
lady he loved ; and, while answering her
greeting, his eyes did not meet hers.

How perfectly wretched you look,"
she said, now busy with the coffee.
' Have you had bad news ? "

No," he replied, '* it is nothing. I
have had a busy day, that is all."

He stayed some time, and when he rose
to go and looked into Martha's clear unconscious
eyes., he felt that he had behaved

shamefully, and that, if ever the chance
were repeated, he should behave shamefully
again.

This vas the little episode about which
he was thinking as he sat alone, deep
in meditation upon Martha, and as he
thought, he groaned in hopelessness.

Yet he would not give up hope. The
bare imagining of her as belonging to
someone else sent the hot blood flying to
his cheeks, and made him clench his hands
for battle, even though he was alone, and
was not aware of any plot to rob him of
Martha. He determined doggedly that he
would win her love. He would make himself
indispensable to her, he would indulge
her natural inclination to accept help and
to let people manage her affairs for her,
until she should have lost all power to act
for herself, until it should have become
her second nature to apply to him and him

onh\ When he had clone that, he felt
convinced that she would love him. It
was impossible that a woman should not
love the support that kept her up. He
was quite prepared to do all this, to take
upon his shoulders, in addition to his own
work, the increasing burden of hers, and
to weaken her sense of personal responsibility
until his influence and power over
her should be complete.

CHAPTER VII.

With eager heart, and fair face flushed for praise."

If many of the qualities which Mr.
Fleming was fond of telling himself that
he and Miss Goldengay possessed in
common, existed only in his imagination,
there was one of which he was not
ignorant. They were both fond of looking
back, tracing events from the beginning,
and contemplating, with philosophic calm,
causes and results which had agitated
them considerably at the time of occurrence.


It was early in the summer and
Martha was still in town. She was on
this particular afternoon walking slowly

through some dim, smoke-polluted fields,
through which meandered an evil-looking
and still more evil-smelling stream of
water. She was still fond of walking and
outdoor reflections, and this grim parody
on a country stroll was conveniently near
her rooms.

As she paced slowly along, her eyes
generally fixed upon the ground, but from
time to time raised to take in the excessive
ugliness of her surroundings, her
thoughts flew to Stanedale, and her heart
swelled with yearning for that beautiful
place. She turned from the bare flatness
of the country round her, and thought
of the Pike and the other giant hills, which
shut in that valley from the world, and, as
she thought, she found herself quoting
aloud, 

But in the mountains did ha feel his faith."

One after another her favourite walks
VOL. II. K

came into her mind, and when she
thought of Ravensghyll Force, she smiled
involuntarily, for the remembrance of Mr.
Knox was inextricably mixed up with the
place. She had only once heard anything
of him since he had left her sitting in the
mist by the side of Hawks water. During
her stay at Wells, in the previous year,
she had met some people who knew him,
and from whom she had learned that he
had accepted a secretaryship in India,
which would keep him absent from England
five years longer. She had been glad
to hear it. He could not do her any harm
yet, but she liked to think that for five
years she ran no risk of meeting him, and
seeing him adopt that manner which she
knew he would take when he remembered
that there was a secret between them.
'' Besides," she thought composedly, 'five
years in India may ruin his health ; he

may even die, and his stupid secret with
him."

From him her thoughts turned to
Cuthbert, her true friend, who had done
so much for her, in whose debt she already
stood so deeply. As she pondered over
that, she shrugged her shoulders and
beheaded a melancholy-looking thistle
with her parasol.

She looked round her again ; how ugly
everything was, and yet how her heart
warmed to the dingy place. She had
many friends there now, and, above all, it
was the scene of her present triumph.
Ah, that triumph ! At the mere thought
of it she raised her head, her step grew
even lighter and more elastic; she felt
a hot current run through her veins,
making her heart throb mightily. No one
but herself knew what that triumph had
been to her; even Fleming had but an
K 2

incomplete idea. No one guessed or would
have understood what her work was to
her; how she lived in it, to what an
extent it coloured her thoughts and
influenced her actions. Her friends made
jesting remarks about their fears lest they
should find themselves reproduced in Miss
Goldengay's next novel, but not one had
any idea of the way in which she read and
sifted the characters of those around her.
She had the reputation of being eccentric,
but no one traced to the right source the
words and actions which on the surface
appeared so arbitrary.

She was thinking of her life from the
time she had come to Rilford, wondering
whether her first book would be accepted
or rejected by the publisher to whom she
had sent it, up to the present when her
name was known through the length and
breadth of the land, to every member of a

countless reading public, always hungry
for something to satisfy its craving for
amusement and interest. For a few
moments she let her thoughts dwell upon
this cruel, mighty power of a million
brains and a million tongues, before whom
she had chosen to present herself" a
woman and thus weak," and when she
thought that for once these million brains
and million tongues had elected to judge
and pronounce judgment in favour of one
creation, and that creation hers, when this
thought came to her, she stood still and
drew a long, deep breath of joy and
pride.

Only one thought dimmed her joy, and
made her brows contract, and the proud
colour die out of her cheeks. Where was
the man who had inspired that book,
under the influence of whose memory it
had been written, whose initials stood upon

a blank page ? If lie had been here, how
proud he would have been now, even his
ambition would have been satisfied. She
missed him every day. Had he lived,
her acquaintance with Cuthbert would
probably never have advanced beyond the
first stage; everything he did for her
would have been done by Mr. Richardson.
His death had left a gap in her heart
which no time could fill up.

Then the gloom passed from her face
and she laughed aloud, yet softly, at a new
thought which had taken possession of
her. A few weeks before this she had
received one day a crested and mono-framed
envelope, which on opening she
had found to contain a letter from Sir
Edward Goldengay, of whom she spoke as
*nie head of the family." In this letter,
he addressed her as his dear niece, and
congratulated her upon her sudden fame.

He had further requested that he might
have the pleasure of making her acquaintance,
for which purpose he proposed
coming over to Rilford on a day which he
left her to fix. He had come, and she
had entertained Cuthbert vastly with an
account of his visit. A few days after his
return to Court field, she had received a
letter from her aunt, who was almost
wholly confined to her couch, giving hera
cordial invitation to visit them.
She had accepted the invitation to
Cuthbert' s disappointment, for he had
wished her to receive Sir Edward's
advances with dignity and in a spirit of
wounded pride, and to decline all intercourse
with him and his family. She had
laughed at the idea, saying that a visit to
Courtfield would be amusing, that amusement
was the breath of life to her, and that
Rilford was just then as dull as a Scotch

Sabbath. But she was not going until
August, which was the time when all
Milford fled into the country, and as it was
at present only June, she was forced for
exercise into the dingy fields which have
already been described.

CHAPTER VIII.

Give me your hand, and say you will be mine."

In a few days Martha would be leaving
home for Courtfield ; perhaps it was the
prospect of two long months in the depths
of the country, which enabled her to endure
the dust and heat of Rilford with such
equanimity. She looked wonderfully cool
and happy, as she sat slowly fanning herself
in her favourite easy-chair, waiting for
the Burst breath of evening air, which should
wander in at the three windows which
were flung wide open; and looking up at
Cuthbert, who stood leaning against the
mantelpiece, and looking neither cool nor
happy.

He Toad come in after dinner, and found
her gay and happy, even beyond her wont.
He had not made any remark upon it,
sure that if it were due to any special
cause, she would let him into the secret
before long. Nor was he mistaken. She
broke a short silence, which presently fell
upon them, by saying, 

'' You remember Mr. Grant ? "

''No, 1 don't. Who is he?"

'* That doctor at Wells ; you must
remember him."

"Yes, yes, T know now. What of
him ? "

'' He is coming here."

'' How here ? What do you mean ? "

To live at Rilford for a time. I had a
letter from him this morning, and he says
he is giving up his practice and taking
some hospital work here."

Her words were followed by a short

pause, which Cuthbert broke by saying.


I did not know you had been in correspondence
with him."

'' It was too one-sided an affair to calla
correspondence. He wrote very often,
and I when I felt inclined."

I suppose that means that you did not
write often ? "

No ; how could I ? You know how I
dislike writing letters, and it was not the
kind of correspondence I could ask you to
take charge of for me."

'why not?"

I don't think," she said, leaning her
head against the back of her chair, " that
you are versed in psychological arguments."

You don't mean to say that you wrote
him psychological arguments."

Have I not just said that I could not
write them, but he did."

You must have been very much
bored ; but perhaps you did not read
them."

He writes very illegibly," she replied,
closing her eyes as she spoke.

He laughed, and then said, "But tell
me all about it. Why is he coming
here ? "

He says in his letter  where is it?"
opening her eyes, and looking rather
vaguely at the rack where she kept her
letters ; " perhaps you can read it better
than I."

I don't think that is at all likely."

"It is something about a history of
Medicine he is writing. He wants to
be near good public libraries, and the wife
of his friend is delicate and has been
ordered into the country for some months."

How conveniently it all fits in. Does
he give no other rearn ? "

I think the one he lias chosen is a very
good one."

'' Certainly, but I can't help thinking lie
has another; still he may not have mentioned
it to you."

I did not get quite through his letter,
it may be somewhere at the end. But as
you seem to know what it is, you might
tell me, and save me the trouble of reading
any further."

The trouble of reading so far appears
to have completely exhausted you."

Don't make fun of him, he is an
interesting man, and I am very glad he is
coming."

You can hardly suppose that he will
be less glad, and I think we may give, as
his true reason for coming, his wish to see
you again."

I have no doubt it is so."

'ris he coming alone ? "

How could he come alone when he is
giving up his practice ? I expect his wife
and child will come with him."

I am sure you will have great pleasure
in making Mrs. Grant's acquaintance."

*' Have you forgotten that I once told
you she and I are old friends ? I shall
like to see her again. Mr. Grant showed
good taste when he chose his wife ; she is
very handsome."

''I have observed," said Cuthbert,
that when a woman wants to make a
show of great generosity she concedes
to another, that in which she herself
excels."

Thank you," she replied, " I will make
a note of that."

She stretched out her hand for the little
note-book and pencil which lay close at
hand, but Cuthbert took possession of
them, saying, 

'* Let me write it for you."

She watched him write down what he
had just said, and then, folding her
fan, she touched his arm with it, saying.


Now say what has put you out of
temper? "

"May I be quite frank?"

'' Do not trouble to answer at all, if
you are not."

"It is you who have put me out of
temper."

What have I done ? "

I will tell you in a minute. First, I
believe you attach some value to my
opinion."

Never in advance ; I always wait to
hear what it is first."

I do not want you to judge before
you hear it. But I think we are agreed
in putting Mr. Grant's wish to come to

Rilford, clown to this desire to continue
your acquaintance."

'' Have you no faith in his history of
Medicine?"

How far has he got in it ? "

He is at present collecting materials."

I know no occupation over which a
greater amount of time may be wasted
than in collecting materials for a book of
any kind."

He spoke with solemnity, and Martha's
tone was equally solemn as she fixed her
eyes almost sadly upon his face, and
said, 

Really, is that so?"

'you know, you must know, that
all this man wants is to spend his time
with you."

'' I do not suppose I shall have very
much time to give him."

You will give him all you can, because

you are interested in him, and lie is infatuated
about you, and you like to study
people's infatuations."

He paused, half afraid he had said too
much; but she appeared interested, and
merely observed, 

"Go on."

At present, I believe, his infatuation
is within your influence, and I think that,
if you chose, you could prevent his
coming."

What an idea ! And why should I
prevent his coming ? "

Listen to me, I beg of you to listen tome
; I swear I am speaking for your good.
I can see your position more truly than
you can see it yourself, and you must not
let that man come here."

"Why not?"

Because it would place you in a false
position . Before he had been here a month

VOL. 11. L

every one would know wliy lie lead come.
Do you suppose lie is a man to hide such a
light as his friendship with you under a
bushel ? You are a greater person now
than you were when he knew you at Wells.
You do not always remember that; you
are extraordinarily self-forgetful at times.
You are so absorbed in your art, and.
thoughts, and studies, that sometimes I
think you forget that you are a human
being or that other people are human
beings.

What a queer thing to say ; what do
you mean by it ? "

I will tell you by-and-by. At present
your one idea about this man is to
complete your study of him, and your
motives are as pure and free from any
hidden purpose as it is possible for motives
to be ; but do you suppose for an instant
that he will look at your intimacy in such

a light, that his wife or any one else will
look at it in such a light ? "

Why do you say those things ? " she
asked. " You are suggesting things to me
that never entered my dreams."

I know I am, but if you are bent
upon doing certain things, you ought to
know what the consequences will be."

She said nothing, and after a pause he
went on, 

Now, are you prepared to run the
risk I have pointed out ? ' '

'' I do not yet believe in its existence."


He had been moving restlessly about,
now he stood still in front of her and
said, 

It does exist ; take my word for it."

Again she said nothing, and he went on, 

Granted that it exists, are you prepared
to run it ? "

L 2

Yes."

"You shall not," he cried, "by heaven,
you shall not be so mad."

Sit down again and calm yourself,
and then we can talk it over quietly."

There is nothing to talk over ; you
cannot do it, simply, that is all about
it."

I must do it ; I must know him better
than I do now."

You carry it too far, you cannot probe
men's natures to their greatest depths.
As you are a woman, that is forbidden to
you. Limits are set which you may not
pass."

If I were a painter, should you say
there were limits I might not pass ? "

Yes. Besides your art is not recognized
as a painter's is. Your motives
would be misrepresented and misunderstood."


' That is not mj fault. I only ask to
treat the soul as a painter treats the body.
No one finds fault with the painter ; why
should I be found fault with ? '*

'' Yes, but you would be. What does it
matter about the why and the wherefore ?
the fact remains."

The painter is supposed to be lifted
above all material considerations ; I claim
the same right."

But no one will give it you."

'' Then I will take it."

He was silent for some time ; then he
said, " Granted that you have a right
to do this from an artist's point of view,
just look for an instant at the moral side
of the question. If this man were not
married it would be another matter, you
might both be playing with fire ; but, if no
one were hurt except yourselves, you might
plead that as a justification. There is his

wife. You know, as well as I do, that the
man is half in love with you now, and will
be head-overseers in love before lie has
seen sou half-a-dozen times. For his
wife's sake you ought to stop his coming."

Her face took its whimsical expression
at this mention of Mrs. Grant ; but he took
no notice of it, only asked, 

Have I said too much ? "

No, go on, I like to hear you. I did
not know you could speak so well, you
speak like a man, it is interesting."

He turned away with a half-bitter, half-impatient
laugh.

*rit is an interesting study, is it not?
You are taking it all into your brain,
and by-and-by it will come out again,
having passed through the crucible, and
people will wag their heads and say,
How marvellously she depicts human
passions ! ' "

He had seated himself again, and he
leaned forward in his chair and pressed
his hands together while he beat his foot
upon the floor. Then, as she said nothing,
he went on, 

'' Oh, Martha, I would give all the
world to know when you are yourself and
when you are an artist."

Still she was silent, and at last he
asked, 

Have you nothing to say in reply ?
That is not like you."

'' You are quite mistaken about Mr.
Grant. He is not even half in love with
me, if he were he would not come here.
And, when he does come, should he find
himself in any danger, he will run away at
once. His wife, I may mention, is very
well able to take care of herself. For the
rest, you are making much ado about
nothing. When I see people who interest

me, I must talk to them and see what they
are like. Try to write a novel without
doing so, and see how far you will get.
When people cease to interest me, I cease
to study them, and go to others in search
of new interest. Few people can be
always fresh, so those I have known latest
or seen least frequently interest me most.
There is the simple truth, which agitates
you so much."

"Ah'' he said, *rit is the old story:
those who have borne the burden and heat
of the day get at last no more than those
who come in at the end."

I have heard that those who work
for the sake of a reward are always dissatisfied
with the reward when they
get it."

I have worked with the hope of a reward,
but I swear I will do so no longer,
I will give up viYj hope."

'what hope? What are you talking
about?"

The hope of sometime winning you
for my wife. But, by heaven, I will get
the better of it. I am ashamed of being
the slave of a hope which appears to have
no foundation out of my brain. I was
working for wages, I confess it, the
labourer is worthy of his hire ; but I want
my hire to myself, I will share it with no
one, and, if that is part of the bargain, you
may have my service for nothing."

He did not know what he was saying,
but he was brought to himself by the look
on her face, as she said, 

Are you mad?"

'' I suppose so, yes. People are generally
mad when they are in love."

She had turned very pale, but her voice
was steady, and her eyes met his without
flinching, as she answered, 

'' I do not think that madness is infectious."


Mine is, it mast be. It would not be
in nature, that when I love you so, you
should not love me; that when I want
you for my wife, you should not be willing
to marry me."

"You do not know what you are saying,"
she answered deliberately.

Ah, do not speak so. Promise that
you will marry me, Martha, say yes, say
yes."

'' I cannot."

*' You mean you will not. There can
be no obstacles except those you choose to
make."

It is impossible."

Think what you are saying. How
can it be impossible ? You have made me
love you until I want nothing on earth but
you for my wife. You cannot refuse."

You must not say that. There are a
thousand reasons why I should not marry
you."

"Tell me some of them; perhaps you
are making mountains out of molehills."


I have always had an unfortunate
tendency to do the reverse. My reasons
are good to me. I dare say you will think
them all together not worth a rush."

'' Begin, I long to hear them."

If 1 got married, it would interfere
with my work."

I give you my word that your work
should be in no way interfered with."

When people get married, I have
observed that they surround themselves
with their own servants and furniture,
and other impediments to happiness. I
do not want to be troubled with any such
things."

'' You should not be. We would live
in a hotel or where you pleased."

*' We should still want a servant of
some kind. I do not know how to patch
and darn socks and things, and I don't
think I should like servant-hunting."

'' You need not go servant-hunting. I
would find a servant."

He had half expected her to laugh at
such a proposal, but instead, she looked
distressed, and said, 

"Don't press me any more, please.
Every word you say shows how much
too good for me you are, and those are
only sham reasons which I have been
inventing as I went along. I should not
mind doing those things, even learning
to patch and darn, for a man I
loved."

Ah ! " he said with a sudden contraction
of his forehead, as though he felt a

sharp pain at his heart; then, after a
moment's silence, he went on, 

How do you know that you could not
love me ? "

How do I know? What an extraordinary
question ? How could I not
know?"

You cannot tell. Love comes and
goes we cannot tell how."

'* Yes, it is such a strange thing. Love,
love  no, I could never love you, you are
not the kind of man."

*' But we are such friends, we think so
much alike, we can help one another so
much, it would be a perfect marriage."

No, no ;" she said slowly, and shaking
her head as she spoke, *you are mistaken,
it is not so ; we are friends, yes, I hope
we shall always remain so ; all that you
say is very true, but that does not mean
love  love is something different."

'' What is the difference ? half the people
who get married are not so truly united as
you and I. What is the difference ? "

As he finished speaking, a little smile
came to the corner of her mouth, she
dropped her eyes, and said, 

I have told you before, that you are
too fond of asking questions."

Her words and manner set his heart
aflame with jealousy.

You love another man ! " he cried
passionately.

'you are wrong again," was all her
answer, but this time she spoke with a
little disdain.

 Forgive me ; but since your choice has
not fallen upon me, tell me in token of
forgiveness the kind of man whom you
could love."

Such a look came upon her face that
he was almost tempted to doubt her

word, and after a little pause, lie said
slowly, 

'' I think, perhaps, I might love a man
who would give me up."

*' Give you up ! " he echoed, "how do
you mean ? "

I mean a man who, for my sake, to
save me perhaps from some danger,
would renounce his claim upon me, even
though he loved me all the time."

Then how could he have a claim upon
you?" he asked, rather puzzled, and as
she said nothing, he continued, 

I feel safe ; I began to fear a rival,
but you will never meet such a man."

"I dare say not."

You are not the kind of woman whom
men are willing to resign."

Are they willing to resign anything
which they choose to want ? "

After this they were silent. It was growing

late and the light was fading, Martha
was merely a dim white object in her
chair, Cuthbert's expression of despondency
was hidden as he leaned against the
chimney-piece. He felt depressed and
wretched, constitutional weakness prevented
his urging his suit with the boldness
which a stronger man would have
employed, but he was determined to
make one more effort, so, rousing himself
from his spiritless attitude, he said, 

Are you sure of yourself? You
answered so hastily, you took no time to
consider, and what I said must have been
unexpected."

No, my friend," she replied in her full,
harmonious voice, '' it was not unexpected
and I did not answer in haste ; I have felt
sure for some time that you were going to
ask me this, and I hoped it would be long
before you did."

And cannot you,  cannot you give meany
hope ? "

She came up to where he stood, and
taking his hand, held it in her own.

I am sorry for you, Cuthbert," she
said, in the voice which had moved his heart
the first time lie had heard it. "I am
very sorry for you," she repeated. " You
think you have disposed of all my objections,
and the greatest of all, the only real
one, I have never told you."

'tell it me. Perhaps it is not so great
as you imagine."

"It is far greater than you imagine."

'' Tell it me. Is it insuperable ? "

I cannot tell it you, and if it were
ever removed, I would not for all the
world thati>you knew what it had been."

'' What a mystery you are," drawing
her to him by her hand. '' What can it
be. Not that you love someone else ? "

VOL. II. M

Ah, you will not be happy until
you have made me angry ; no, it is not
that."

'you are not"

'* No," she interrupted, " you must not
guess any more. But our marriage is
impossible."

And this man who is going to give
you up ; I feel curious about him ; by
Avhat sign shall I know him ? "

Perhaps he will never come, but when
he does, I do not think I shall want
to study him. I shall take him on
trust."

'then you studied me."

Yes, my poor Cuthbert, I know you
very well''

I like to hear you say Cuthbert.
Shall we not call one another by our
Christian names ? "

"Yes J certainly."

I ma J call sou. Martha. Tell me,
Martha, may I still come to see you ? "

'' I shall feel lost and desolate if you do
not. We must go on quite in the old way.
I am so sorry for this, try to let it make
no difference to us."

It must make a difference to me ; it is a
hope gone out of my life. You do not yet
know what that is, do you ? "

*eyes, I know well."

What was it ? "

'*I cannot tell you now," smiling up at
him. ** I think you must go, it is getting
late."

Oh, my sweet ; how can I leave you ?
I love you a thousand times more even
than I thought I did. You are dearer tome
than life itself."

Do not say that, life is very good,
better than I am. Go now, and come
again soon. I want to see you often."
M 2

*' Would you kiss me?" he asked
suddenly, as tliougli a new thought lead
struck him.

She coloured rather deeply, but raised
her face, and when he had kissed her, he
was moved to make confession, and said, 

'' It is not the first time, Martha."

What do you mean ? "

He told her, and she heard without
raising her eyes ; but when he had finished,
she did not chide him.

CHAPTER IX.

Whose disposition all the world well knows
Will not be rubbed, nor stopped."

Martha's visit to Court field was a great
success. She conquered at once and forever
the hearts of her uncle, her aunt, and
her cousins. Sir Edward, in particular,
was delighted with her, and wanted to
arrange a marriage between her and his
eldest son, a man some years her senior,
who brought vividly back to her memory
the life she had led on the Continent. She
grew very fond of her uncle; he was a
new type to her, and afforded her infinite
interest and amusement. He, on his side,
was both fond and proud of her, and only

his wife could tell how often he regretted
that he had allowed so long a time to
elapse before making the acquaintance of
his charming niece. He found her irresistible
and did not scruple to tell her so,
and to pay her gallant compliments belonging
to a bygone age, to which she replied
in a manner which rejoiced his heart.
When he asked her where she got her eyes,
her voice, her laughter from, she answered
that she had always been considered the
image of her mother. After that, he
always began to talk of something else,
though it had never been breathed by
either of them that Sir Edward had been
the chief opponent of his brother's marriage,
and that he had always cut short
any approach to reconciliation on his
father's part by a curt warning, that to
hold out firmly was the only way to bring
the young man to his senses.

He was proud of Martha's fame, though
it ran counter to all his prejudices that a
woman of good birth should ever appear
before the public ; and he was very wishful
that, having accomplished what she had
done, she should retire from her present
position, and by marrying her cousin or
some other magnate, since she would not
hear of him, fulfil her duty as a lady of
fashion.

She listened to his plans with attention
and interest, watching the rapid growth
of the rainbow-coloured bubble he was
blowing for her benefit, and then just
when he could do no more, and the whole
family was lost in admiration of his skill
and policy, she let fly some shaft of malice
or wickedness, which at once reduced the
bubble to a state of the most ridiculous
flatness. Perhaps, if Sir Edward could
have read the letters she so often wrote

to Cutlibert, lie would have given up blowing
bubbles sooner than he did.

At the end of September, in spite of
threats, persuasions, and entreaties, she
left Courtfield and returned to Rilford,
intending to work hard all the winter.

She found Mr. Grant there with his
wife and child, and she called upon Mrs.
Grant ; but she was not at home, and
neglected to return the call, so that no
intercourse sprang up between the houses.
Mr. Grant was in a discontented frame of
mind. He had never even visited a place
like Rilford before, and he was disappointed.
With regard to his work he
learned soon after his arrival that his
predecessor, while alleging the need of
country air for his wife as Ins reason for
leaving, had in reality been fleeing from
a stiff-necked and indocile staff of nurses ;
while, as regards his fellow-labourers,

he discovered that the doctors of Rilford
were one of the least attractive features of
the town.

His wife, too, puzzled him ; she behaved
strangely and declined to give any reason
for her conduct. She had received
innumerable callers when she came to
the town, and she had returned the calls,
but had borne herself in such a way that
very few had ventured to disturb her
privacy a second time. She accepted no one
of the many invitations she got, and never
asked any one to her own house. When
her husband remonstrated with and questioned
her, she merely tightened her handsome
mouth a little, and replied that she
did not wish to know the Rilford people ;
it was unnecessary to make so many
new acquaintances in a place where they
intended to remain only a few months.
So he was left to visit alone as much as he

chose, and to make sucTi excuses for Lis
wife as occurred to him, and they generally
took the form of an assertion that she was
so wrapped up in the little boy," that
she did not care for visiting.

Martha's name was never mentioned.
Whatever Marion might have felt when
her husband first wrote to her from Wells
about Miss Goldengay, she had said nothing,
and had not even told him that she already
knew her. He had heard it from Martha
herself, and had straightway expressed
to his wife his surprise at her reticence.
She had only said that her recollections of
the time when she and Miss Goldengay
had lived under the same roof were not
agreeable, and she did not desire to renew
the acquaintance. She had in no way
opposed his coming to Rilford ; the matter
appeared to have no interest for her. She
simply held herself aloof, and preferred a

life of solitude to running any risk of again
meeting Miss Goldengay. Her husband's
thoughts were too much occupied with
other things, and in the beginning there
had been nothing to call his attention to
the fact, or he might have observed that
from the time of his first casual mention
of Miss Goldengay's name, his wife's
manner had been changing, her reserve

deepening, and her affection cooling.

* * *

On an autumn afternoon, Mrs. Warrington
gave an afternoon tea-party. She
had many friends, and was accustomed to
entertain what she called " a great deal
of expensive company" Her tea-parties
were rather popular ; people went because
they knew they would hear all the latest
gossip, and would meet any new-comers
to the town who were worthy to be met.

The afternoon was already advanced,

and everybody had come except Miss
Goldengay and Mr. Grant. One young
lady having expressed her wonder as to
where Miss Goldengay could be, Mrs.
Torkington had undertaken to solve the
mystery.

My dear," she was saying to her
young friend, Miss Playfair, " I am not at
all surprised that Miss Goldengay has not
yet arrived. Mr. Grant told me it would be
impossible for him to be here before five."

I do not see the connection, Mrs.
Torkington."

'' Oh, my dear, don't be so simple.
You know, as well as I do, that ever since
Mr. Grant came here, he and Miss Golden-gay
have been inseparable. They go everywhere
together, and, mark my words, about
five o'clock Miss Goldengay will arrive."

'' They knew one another before ever
Mr. Grant thought of coming here."

'' Oh, yes, I know the whole story.
They met last year in a boarding-house,
and at once struck up a violent
friendship. When they separated, they
began a close correspondence, and it
was at Miss Goldengay's own request
that Mr. Grant came here. She smoothed
the way for him considerably; it
was in connection with this business
that her uncle came to see her in the
summer, and the negotiations were completed
when she went to visit him last
August."

One or two ladies turned away to hide a
smile, others laughed openly ; but Miss
Playfair looked very much distressed and
asked, 

Have you any proof of that, Mrs.
Torkington?"

I do not want proof; I know it to be
true."

Miss Play fair was silent, and Mrs. Warrington
went on indulgently, 

English ladies will excuse inucli in Miss
Goldengay, when they remember that her
mother was a Frenchwoman'*

A Pole ! " said Miss Playfair firmly.

*' It is just the same, my dear, and we all
know what the French are,  so terribly
addicted to drinking."

That is really a mistake, I assure

you."

*' No mistake at all, my dear. It is something
awful. Summer is not the time to
see Paris, I grant you ; but during the five
days Lionel and I spent there this summer,
we saw far more drunkenness in the streets
than I have done in five months in Milford."


Miss Playfair was silenced, and Mrs.
Torkington went on almost severely, 

Oh, you may believe me when I say

there is a great deal of nonsense talked
about the French, It is only those who
have been into Franco, and studied the
people in their own country, who are competent
to judge them truly."

*' I lived in France for three years,"
murmured Miss Playfair.

Yes, my love, but in the provinces ;
and every one will tell you that Paris is
France, and not the provinces at all. If you
want to see the French as they are, you
must go to Paris."

But what has all this to do with Miss
Goldengay ?" asked another young lady.

*' My dear, you have not been listening.
Miss Goldengay 's mother was half French,
and we were discussing the national characteristics."


As she finished speaking, there was a
little stir near the door, and Mrs. Torkine-
ton, looking in that direction, saw Martha

coming along the room, closely followed
by Mr. Grant.

Whose national characteristics were
you discussing ? " asked the lady, who
looked in radiant health and spirits.

'' Those of the French."

'' Oh," with the perfect ease of a clear
conscience, " what suggested such a subject
to you? But," changing the subject to
Mrs. Torkington's immense relief, '' how
can I apologize for being so late ? My
excuse must be that Mr. Grant promised
to being me, and was not at liberty
earlier."

*' You are here now. We have all been
languishing for want of you. Come and
talk to me here," patting a low chair
which stood near her own. '' I have not
seen you for an age ; I thought you dead."

You would have had a card. I
thought I met you yesterday in town."

Perhaps so ; but tell me first, did
Frederic open the door to you nicely ? "

Frederic was Mrs. Torkington's page, a
new acquisition of which she was very
proud. Martha had heard of him, and
answered accordingly, 

I did not notice, I am so careless ;
perhaps Mr. Grrant was more observant.
I will ask him," and before her hostess
could protest, she had turned to the doctor,
and was asking, 

'' Did you notice if Frederic opened
the door to us nicely, Mr. Grant? "

I think he did. I really think he did,"
answered Mr. Grant in his soft voice, and
with the slightly hesitating manner peculiar
to him.

He did, Mrs. Torkington," said
Martha, turning to the lady again, and
speaking in a tone of sympathy. '' I am
so glad."

VOL. II. N

Mrs. Torkington bit her lip. She could
not resist talking about her page, and jet
she was vaguely conscious that by doing
so she afforded amusement to her friends.
She felt a little annoyed with Martha for
calling attention to their conversation, but
lie was not proof against the temptation
of answering when Martha, lowering her
voice, asked, 

*' Does he give satisfaction ? "

*' Perfect," setting her mouth a little.
He has been very well educated, and I
think he is very happy. He has sixpence
a week for pocket-money, and we find him
his livery, and a suit for working in the
morning. He has had a birthday since he
came, and Lionel gave him a new shilling ;
he teas proud."

*' Fortunate boy ! I hope he realizes
how well off he is."

I think he does," with a sigh of satisfaction,

which was followed by a pause,
wliicli lie broke to say, 

"How is Mrs. Grant? I am so sorry
not to see her here."

She could not possibly come. Yesterday
she had a tooth out, and she is
still a little upset from the effect of the
gas."

'' Gas ! " opening her eyes and her lips.
'' You don't mean that you let your wife
laye gas ! Oh," not allowing him to
speak, " I know all you would say in
its favour, but I have the greatest objection
to it, and so has my husband. He
would never allow me to have it, never,"
quivering her head as she spoke the last
words.

'' Do you think it is dangerous ? "

'' It is dangerous, I am convinced ; but
it is not the danger of which I am most
afraid. I have a nervous dread of it,
N 2

because one of its effects is to bring to
light all the hidden tendencies of our
nature."

"I do not quite understand," said Mr.
Grant, refraining from stealing a glance at
Martha.

' I can explain myself best by an
example. I know a girl, I will not tell
you her name, because she lives in Rilford,
and you might meet her in the street any
day. I dare say many of you know lier
personally. Well, that girl went to the
dentist to have her tooth out. I will not
tell you the dentist's name either. She
insisted upon having gas, though he did
not wish it ; indeed, begged her not to have
it. As soon as the tooth was out, and
she began to recover a little, she first
picked his pocket of his watch and chain,
and then flung her arms round his neck
and kissed lira."

An impressive silence reigned when she
had finished speaking ; it seemed almost
as if no one dared to speak. And then
Martha began to laugh uncontrollably and
irresistibly.

Mrs. Torkington drew herself up a
little.

You may laugh if you choose, of course,
Miss Goldengay, it is not for me to limit
your amusement ; but I assure you it is
perfectly true."

I do not for an instant doubt it; but
it is so very funny. May I ask if you
heard this from the dentist or the young
lady herself ? ''

From neither. I was told by a friend
whom she had asked to accompany her."

That shows us, does it not, how careful
we ought to be in our choice of an
accomplice on a visit to the dentist ? "

Mrs. Torkington said nothing ; she was

exceedingly angry. She was afraid of
Mary la, she feared her tongue. Twice
this afternoon Miss Goldengay had placed
her in an unfavourable light, once by
betraying that she was talking about
Frederic, and now she had a dim feeling
that the idea produced by Mary la's words,
was that both she and the unknown lady
had been indiscreet. When she had first
made Martha's acquaintance, and reflected
that she was a young unmarried woman
living alone, and just coming into public
notice, she had expected that she would
at once step into the position of Miss
Goldengay 's guide, philosopher, and friend.
She had been disappointed ; Martha
returned her calls with the strictest
regularity, accepted her hospitality, returned
it with afternoon tea, and  went her
own way. Mrs. Torkington could not
pardon that ; but she knew what a weapon

Marjla held ; sometimes, as on this afternoon,
she just showed the tip of it, a blank,
gleaming point, and Mrs. Torkington never
wanted to see any more. But in her secret
soul she was furious, and resolved that she
would not forget.

Martha's last words were followed by a
general laugh, in the midst of which she
rose to go, saying, 

Are you ready, Mr. Grant ? "

Mr. Grrant was more than ready, he was
anxious to be gone, and he followed Miss
Goldengay into the hall, where Frederic
stood ready to open the door for them.

The house-door had barely closed behind
them, before Mrs. Torkington looked round
at her remaining guests, and said, with her
prettiest smile and her head a little on one
side, 

Did I not say she would come about
five o'clock?"

No one attempted any palliation of Miss
Goldengay's crime, and Mrs. Torkington
went on, 

'* It is fortunate for Mr. Grant that she
is one of those women who always love
themselves better than any one else. She
is hard, and I do not like a hard woman,"
setting her lips.

Miss Playfair looked as if she would say
something, but before she could speak,
Mrs. Torkington had continued, 

'' No," shaking her head reflectively.
'' I do not like Miss Goldengay's manner
with men ; it is not maidenly."

Miss Playfair coloured deeply.

She is a friend of mine," she said in
rather an unsteady voice, " and it gives me
pain to hear her spoken of in this way, so
I will say good afternoon." '

She rose as she spoke, and held out her
hand to Mrs. Torkington,

'' You are not going ! " said that lady.

'' Yes. Miss Goldengay is my friend ;
I cannot hear her spo-ken of in that way."

What way, my dear, you really frighten
me?"

'' She could not do anything un-maidenly."


'' How scrupulous you are ! I declare
I shall be frightened to say anything in
your presence. But sit down again, and
don't be silly."

"No, I must go. Good afternoon."

Well, my dear, just as you like ; only,
depend upon it. Miss Goldengay is making
game of us all at this very moment."

Miss Playfair went, and felt truly glad
when she stood outside the house. She
was deeply hurt and distressed by what she
had heard that afternoon, for her admiration
for Miss Goldengay was great and
unfeigned ; it was an admiration which

showed the sweetness and truth of her
nature, and had arisen in the following
way.

She was dependent on her own exertions,
and had for some time held a fairly good
post in the principal girls' school at
Milford. She kept steadily to her work,
but it was not congenial, and in seeking
for a new line it was not unnatural that
she should think of literature as a way out
of the difficulty. She wrote a story, but
could not venture to submit it to a publisher
until she had had some competent
opinion upon it. She was tolerably intimate
with Cuthbert Fleming, but a vague feeling,
which she shrank from examining too
closely, prevented her taking him into her
confidence. So the story remained a
secret for some time, until she met Miss
Groldengay at Mrs. Torkington's. The successful
authoress often talked to her and



seemed to eujoj talking to her, and she,
while fascinated by Mary la's beauty and
manner, fancied that a large and merciful
heart beat under her fashionable dress.
After many inward struggles she wrote to
Miss Goldengay, stating her case simply
and straightforwardly. The answer she
got was kinder than she had ventured to
hope for, and she sent her manuscript to
Devonshire Street in misled fear and
hope. In a week she received another
note, asking her to call. She never forgot
that call, or the pretty, rather untidy room,
the hundred signs of the occupant's calling,
and the beauty and kindness of the occupant
herself. Very kindly, and at the same
time very clearly, did Miss Goldengay
explain that there was not the slightest
chance of success for her in literature.
Each word was like a sharp knife pointed,
at her heart, from the touch of which she

shrank in anticipation, and yet, when the
stab came she did not feel it, it was
accompanied by a smile, a voice, an expression
which almost turned the pain into a
pleasure. And when at parting. Miss
Goldengay asked her to go and see her as
often as she liked, the conquest was
complete ; and only when she saw Martha
and Cuthbert together, was there any

shadow in her pleasure.

* * *

Mrs. Torkington was mistaken, Miss
Goldengay and Mr. Grant did not amuse
themselves at the expense of their hostess
after leaving her house. It was a
beautiful October afternoon, like late
summer, and they walked slowly along the
sunny street, the frou-frou oi Martha' s silk
skirts making a soothing sound in Mr.
Grant's ear; while every now and then a
wandering breeze caught the long ends of

ribbon which hung from her waist, and
caused them to flutter up almost into her
companion's face. He thought of Marion.
No doubt she was occupied with her boy,
or employed upon some parish work,
grave and dignified, fully conscious
of her position as the doctor's wife.
"When he returned she would be silent
until he spoke, and then return his
greeting with scarcely lifted eyes, and no
smile lighting up her handsome face, which
seemed to be growing almost apathetic in
its coldness. For a moment he mentally
contrasted her with the woman at his side,
her dignity with Mary la's grace, her grave
directness of speech with Martha's light
and nimble tongue, her individuality with
Martha's individuality. Then he looked
up, and sighed to see how near they were
to Devonshire Street. Yet his heart belonged
wholly to his wife, he would have

shrunk with horror and indignation from
the suggestion that even in thought he
could forget Marion for Martha even for
one moment, and under any inducement be
faithless to his wife.

CHAPTER X.

You think of him too much."

Cuthbert's parting words on the evening
when he asked Martha to marry him were
not the last she heard upon the matter.
He returned to it again and again, always
striving to overcome her objections by arguments,
persuasions, and entreaties. She
was wonderfully patient with him, she
laughed at him a little now and then,
but in such a way that he could not feel
hurt ; sometimes she began a counter
argument, more than once she tried to
direct his attention to someone else by
saying,

I know a girl who would love you very

truly if you only asked her to, and who
would make you a charming wife."

She must be a stranger to me."

No, you know her as well as I do."

What is her name ? "

She looked at him with raised eyebrows,
and an incredulous little smile, asking, 

"Do you really think I would tell
you ? "

'' It was not a fair question, and, after
all, I don't want to know. I never loved
any woman but you, and I don't care to
hear about any other."

No, you are completely blinded to your
own good ; she would make you a much
better wife than I should."

'' 1 don't want a ' good wife ' like a
farmer or a stonemason. I want the
woman I love for my wife."

Poor fellow ! I wish you could have
her."

I wish I could. Oh, Martha, are sou
sure I have no chance ? "

What a short memory you have ; I
told you there was an insuperable
obstacle."

I shan't believe in that obstacle until
you tell mo what it is."

"It is a good exercise for your faith.
Put this into your coat."

She was arranging some flowers he had
brought her, and she separated a beautiful
rose from the rest, and put it into his
hand as she spoke.

I suppose," he said, after a pause
spent in drinking in the fragrance of his
rose, " I am not the first man you have
refused?"

"No."

Did you like him as much as you like

me."

I hated him."

VOL. II.

I almost wish you hated me'

I can try if you like."

No, after all, I am glad you don't,
because I am going to ask you to do
something to please me."

Ah, now, I wonder what it is ! "

*' I dare say you can guess when I tell
you it has to do with Grant."

I suppose you want me to abandon
him, or something."

Shall you be angry if I ask you not to
see him so much ? "

'' No ; it is amusing to hear you talk on
that subject."

She had arranged her flowers and seated
herself nearly opposite to Cuthbert. As
she spoke, she looked into his face with
the smile which to him was like a ray of
sunlight suddenly piercing into a dark
room. As he said nothing, she went on, 

*' When you speak of Mr. Grant, you

always get so excited and take such an
extravagant view of tidings. I believe yon
think of nothing else and that he pursues
youin'our sleep. Don't you have dreams
and nightmares about him ? "

'' You may laugh as much as you please,
but that won't alter the fact that you are
horribly imprudent."

Oh, how often you have told me that,
and I knew it perfectly well before ever
you mentioned it. I know I am imprudent ;
no one knows it half so well as I do, and I
assure you, I do not care to hear about it."

"Then we will talk of something else."

iso ! " she said impulsively, laying her
hand for a moment on his arm, " we will
go on talking about that ; you shall tell me
all you think, and I will listen and try to
follow some of your good advice."

He was silent ; he had covered her hand
with his own before she had been able to


withdraw it, and for the moment he was
unable to speak.

Begin," she said, freeing her hand,
and leaning back in her chair.

"Where shall I begin? There is so
much I want to say."

Have I been transgressing so deeply ?
Let me know the worst at once, or will
you bring it on gradually and pile the
agony bit by bit ? I expect you will go to
the root of the matter at once, it is a way
you have."

I dare say you have remarked that
when reports are circulated about any one,
the person whom they concern is always
the last to hear them."

I suppose, that in this case, I am the
person concerned ? "

Exceedingly ill-natured remarks have
been made about you."

What may they be ? "

Unless you insist, I should prefer not
to tell you."

*' I do not insist ; I only thought they
might serve as models. I dare say Mrs.
Torkinofton has invented them."

I believe she has. I am disappointed
in Mrs. Torkington."

Martha laughed unrestrainedly.

'' Do you really mean that you did not
know Mrs. Torkington better? "

I hoped you would remain friends."

AYe might have done ; it is my fault. If
I would have placed myself unreservedly
in her hands, we should have been friends
now."

She would be rather a dangerous
woman to have for an enemy."

I know if she ever can do me any harm,
she will."

I don't see why it should ever be in
her power to do so."

Neither do I ; but low do people
know that Mr. Grant comes here so
much?"

'' He tells them, of course. I wonder if
I shall ever persuade you that the one
thing of which he is really proud, is his
intimacy with you, and that he can no
more help talking about it to every one he
meets, than  "

Than Mrs. Torkington can help talking
about Frederic," seeing him hesitate
for a simile.

Exactly, but that being so, don't you
think it would be wise to give up receiving
him ? "

It might be wise, but there are some
things I prefer to wisdom."

I don't understand the interest you
take in the man, I fail to see any."

He does not show the interesting side
of his nature to every one. When I met

Mm at Wells, tie bad been in the house
sore weeks, and no one had made anyway
with him. I was told that he changed
completely after I got there."

He is fortunate in being able to keep
your interest alive for so long."

'* His religion is the strangest I ever
heard of."

'' Is it the highest you ever heard of ? "

No ; if I allowed it to influence me at
all, it would appeal to my lower, almost
my lowest nature. My own religion, such
as it is, is infinitely higher than his."

Do you suppose it is good for you to
be much with such a man ? "

'' As for good, it can do me no harm,
and it is exceedingly interesting to watch
how his belief influences his conduct, and
how his natural common sense wars
against the artificial restraints which his
superstitions impose upon it."

'' His natural common sense protesting
against his coming here, and the artificial
restraint which he imposes upon it, reasoning
that it is all right, and that there is no
harm in his spending all his spare time
with you, and none with his wife, I
suppose."

"Do not say those things," she said
after a momentary pause, *' they do not
suit you."

*' Of course not, and I am an impertinent
fool to dare to speak to you in such a
tone at all."

"You do let your hatred of Mr. Grant
distort your judgment."

''1 don't hate him."

I thought you did."

I should be sorry to occupy myself
so much with him."

"I fancied we had been talking about
him all the evening, but let us talk of

something else. I can't give him up, I
am working him into my new novel, and I
must go on to the end."

'' Yes, if one could only tell what the
end will be ; but I cannot get rid of a
feeling that you are laying up trouble for
yourself'*

I have half a mind to tell you a secret,"
she said.

What kind of a secret ? "

It is possible that harm might come
of my intimacy with him, but if it did it
would not be through him. I cannot tell
you too often, that he will always love his
wife and his wife alone. If any harm comes,
his wife will bring it."

"How?"

That is the secret I am going to tell
you," and she forthwith gave him a slight
sketch of the time the column had spent
in Stanedale, concluding with the words, 

The real reason of Mrs. Grrant's excessive
love of home, is that she will not run
the risk of meeting me again."

Cuthbert looked very thoughtful.

''I wish you had not told me that," he
said at last.

What ! is the remedy worse than the
disease ? I should not have told you if you
had not in a measure forced me to."

He was silent for a minute, and then he
burst out passionately, 

*' If I had the right to command it, you
should never speak another word to that
man."

She said nothing, and he went on.

"I know you think me jealous, and so I
am, jealous of every man who speaks to
you, or touches your hand. If you had
a very intimate woman friend, I should be
jealous of her too."

'rit is a very ugly fault to have*' she

said in the gentle tone lie often used when
speaking to him.

"I suffer from it more than anyone else
can doa

Perhaps ; but you may cause others to
suffer horribly too."

"What ! " he cried, seizing her hand,
'' do you suffer from it ? "

'* Sometime I may suffer very much ? "

'rob, my love, and you know I would
give my life to shield you from an instant's
pain."

' Yes, I know ; but I do not suppose I
shall ever want your life ; whereas a time
might come when I should be very glad of
your indulgence and generosity."

I have been a brute, you shall not
have to complain again, I promise you."

"Thank you," she replied; "it hurts
me very much when you say those
things."

He went away soon after, and lie
looked into the fire, saying to herself, 

Poor Cuthbert ! If we were married
how happy yon would be for a year or two,
and then  "

CHAPTER XI.

'Tis but his humour."

The long, lot summer of that year was
followed by a very damp, unhealthy
autumn. Almost every one felt ill and out
of sorts, and Cuthbert more than anybody ;
he had a bad cough, and looked wretchedly
ill, going about his work in a spiritless,
indifferent way, utterly unlike himself.
Martha began to feel uneasy and then
alarmed, when she saw that he made no
effort to rouse himself, and only answered
her expostulations by saying that he had
no object in getting stronger, he had
nothing left to live for ; he was a useless
burden upon the earth, and the sooner he

died, and was forgotten, the better. She
reasoned with him and laughed at him, but
to no avail, and at last she spoke sharply
to him.

It was one evening when he had come
to see her, a damp, depressing evening,
when it was suicidal for him to be out at
all.

You will go on like this until it is too
late," she said, "and then something will
happen to make you wish to live a little
longer, and you will be sorry for your imprudence
now."

I don't see why anything should
happen, and I am not yet on the brink of
the tomb."

You are doing yourself incalculable
harm in coming out on such a night as
this, in a regular Rilford fog, and you
know that it is madness for you to stop in
Milford at this time of year."

I am not going away."

You always go away in the autumn,
and you told me the other day you could
quite well be spared. Do go to Wells.
You said it did you so much good last
year."

A sorrow's crown of sorrow is remembering
happier things," he quoted almost
to himself, and then went on aloud, 

'' Last year was last year ; the circumstances
are now quite different."

Do not be* so dependent upon
circumstances, I believe that is the secret
of half your illness."

'rit is easy for you to talk when you
are in good health and spirits ; if you were
in my place, you might see things with
different eyes."

'' But you won't try to get back to good
health and spirits," she said apjDeahngly,
and as he made no reply, she went on, 

Do go to Wells, Cutliberfc, to please

me."

"Ko," he answered sharply, " I will not
go to Wells."

He had never spoken to her in such
a tone before, and she felt very much as
if she had received a slap in the face ;
her cheeks tingled and she could not
speak.

'* I beg your pardon," he said when the
silence had lasted a moment. " I forgot
what I was saying; you can't tell how
irritable I am at times when I do not feel
well."

*' You tiresome, unreasonable man !
You ask for sympathy when it would bethe
easiest thing in the world to put yourself
outside the need for it. Do go to
Wells," she persisted coaxingly ; " you owe
me that concession now."

He looked at her for a moment in silence,

and then with the changing mood of a sick
man, said, 

Very well, I will go on condition that
you come too."

That is truly a brilliant ideas I feel
almost jealous that you should have been
favoured with it. Such unique conceptions
do not enter the brains of ordinary
people."

Do not laughj'but tell mysteriously if
you will come."

I cannot look at such an idea with my
natural solemnity ; go alone and do not
talk folly."

I am not talking folly. If you will
not go, I will not."

"You must go; I do not believe you
will live through the winter if you stay
here."

I have no particular wish to live
through the winter. How much better off

VOL. II. p

shall I be at the end of it, than I am
now ? "

"You are so unreasonable," she said
almost impatiently. "It is cowardly,
Cuthbert, to be willing to throw away your
whole life because you have been disappointed
in one single thing."

He only shrugged his shoulders,
saying,

I fancy most people who suffer from
organic disease as I do are cowards."

She said nothing, but sat still, looking
into the fire and feeling miserable yet
impatient. As she sat thus, Cuthbert
coughed a nasty hard cough, which filled
her with apprehension. She sat thinking
for some time considering Cuthbert's proposal,
then she said, 

Suppose for a moment that I agreed
to go with you ; how did you propose to
arrange it ? "

I had not got any plan, but if you
would only consent to go, we could soon
make one."

"I don't feel at all inspired; if you
have anything to suggest, let me hear
it."

He began planning, or plotting, as
Martha called it, and she listened in
silence, with now and then a half-smile
lifting the corner of her mouth. When
he had finished speaking, she sighed and
said with the strange spirit of yielding
which sometimes possessed her, 

Well, well, I suppose I must save you

at my own risk and peril."

* * *

Some days later Martha walked into the
dining-room at Middleton House when high
tea was about half over ; there were few
people present, and with the exception of
Mr. Fleming, all were strangers to her.
p 2

Her old place at the head of the table was
occupied by a stout middle-aged German,
and all the conversation was carried on in
whispers, nor was she invited to take any
part in it. Cuthbert sat at the same side
of the table, but they were separated by
three people, so that they had no conversation.
 As she was not hungry, she sipped
her tea, leaned back in her chair, and
let her eyes wander round the room, and
her thoughts go back to the previous
autumn. She sat opposite to the three
large windows which lit the room, but it
was quite dark, the gas was lit, and the
shutters shut ; she therefore saw nothing
of the view of which she had been so fond
twelve months before. But she knew it
by heart,  the steep slope down to the
valley, the river flowing dark and full at
the bottom, and the ground rising on the
other side, clothed with trees, now gaunt

and leafless, till the fields widened out into
moors, and no more trees grew.

Lie was so absorbed in the thought of
it all, that she forgot where she was, and
sat lost in recollection until a pushing
back of chairs roused her to the fact that
Cuthbert was at her side before she had
reached the dining-room door.

'* What a pleasure to see you here.
Miss Goldengay," he said, holding out his
hand. " I suppose you, like myself, have
fled the fogs of Rilford ? "

She put Ler hand in his and answered
in the same tone. They walked along the
corridor together, and be said, 

'' I thought you would not come."

Why ? I had promised."

It was so late. I gave you up when
the gong went for tea."

My train was a little late, but is that
so extraordinary a thing that you could not

take the possibility of it into consideration.
I came by the train we originally decided."

Come in and let us talk," moving
towards the drawing-room door. " What
have you been doing since I left."

' The same as before you left. And
you, how have you been ? I suppose it is
too early to look for any improvement ? "

Oh, I have not been out much, the
weather has been bad. Then I did not
care to go alone, and yet did not feel
in the humour for any of these people."

They are all strangers, I think."

Yes, and most uninteresting strangers.
There is nothing to be got out of any of
them. It would be a punishment to have
had the companionship of any one in a
walk."

Now that I am here we can walk
together. But tell me something about
some of these people ! "

There is that German who sits at the
head of the table  your seat, you know.
His name is Hertz, and he lives here.
Last year, at this time, he was obliged to
pay a visit to his Fatherland, for which
reason we were not then privileged to
make his acquaintance. He knows nearly
every one who has been here, and he calls
them all ' sweet creatures.' He only
makes an exception in favour of one, a
certain Russian, of whom he speaks as
that fussy little man.' '*

Martha laughed. Cuthbert was already
more like himself, and she wanted to
encourage him.

He is like a cabman," she said. *' Goon
! who is that clergyman ? "

He is going to spend the winter in the
Engadine for his health. He imagines it
is a very uncommon thing to do, and
he carries a Bedecked wherever he goes,

and consults it at table in the interregnum
between the courses. I have a natural
unwillingness to speak of my own great
deeds, but I felt compelled to tell him that
I once spent a winter in the Engadine. He
has hated me ever since. He complains
bitterly of the management of this house,
because the authorities refused to supply
him with a cup of cocoa every evening at
nine o'clock, to which he says he has accustomed
himself. He makes it in his own
room with a spirit lamp, but he says it is nota
success ; he can't overcome the lumps."
Martha laughed delightedly, and Cuthbert
ran through the little party, investing
each member of it with some ridiculous
characteristic; Martha herself could not
have been more unsparing. He amused
himself as well as his companion, and
when the waiter came to put out the
lights, he said, 

'' This is the first evening on which I

have not half dislocated my jaws with

yawning before ten o'clock."

* * *

Things went smoothly for a week or
ten days. Cuthbert's health improved
very much, and with the improvement,
his old humour came back. Martha was
thankful he had been persuaded to leave
home, and seeing how much her presence
contributed to the improvement, she was
glad that she had come too. She neglected
to ask herself if this yielding to
Cuthbert's weakness were a good thing
for him, or whether he would find it more
easy to live without her during the
remainder of the winter, for this indulgence
at the beginning. They had no
news from Rilford, and they wanted none.
They believed their Rilford friends to be
in ignorance of where they were, having

left strict injunctions with their respective
landladies to give their address to no one.
But there was a flaw in their plot. Marjla,
with her usual carelessness, had told Mr.
Grant where she was going, without
mentioning Cuthbert's name, and Cuthbert
had found it necessary for business
purposes to leave his address with one of
his colleagues. These two people happened
to be present at one of Mrs.
Torkington's "At Homes " and some one
remarked on the sudden disappearance of
Miss Goldengay from Rilford society. In
the general ignorance which prevailed,
Mr. Grant could not resist betraying his
superior knowledge by saying that she
had gone to Wells. Almost at the same
moment, Cuthbert's friend, who suffered
from absence of mind, and could not safely
be trusted with a secret, was heard
saying,

Fleming ? Oh, don't you know he has
gone to Wells ?  he always goes away in
the autumn, and it quite set him up last
year."

Every one smiled, and Mrs. Torkington
drew herself up and repeated a certain
profound remark in which she had indulged
once before, 

" English ladies will forgive much in
Miss Goldengay when they remember
that her mother was a Frenchwoman."

Miss Playfair was not present to utter
her protest, and the only remonstrant
voice came from Mr. Grant, who raised
his eyebrows, wrung his hands, and said
rather hesitatingly', 

'' Oh, Mrs. Torkington really "

'' I saw Fleming the day before he went,"
struck in the colleague ; ''he certainly
was not fit to go anywhere alone. I
think it was very kind of Miss Goldengay

to arrange lier visit at the same
time."

 Very kind," echoed Mrs. Torkington,
and there the subject dropped.

Mary la and Cuthbert lived in happy
ignorance of the fact, that for a few days
their names were a byword among the
heathen. The ;weather was fine, and they
were out of doors a great deal, walking
and driving. They spent one day at the
beautiful ruin of Saxby Abbey, leaving
home soon after breakfast, and only
returning in time for tea. They took a
primitive lunch in a basket, and ate it
in the woods, within sight and sound
of the *' winding: river." It was a beautiful
day, with pale-blue sky and chequered
sunlight 2:leamino' across the clouds and
mist. Cuthbert felt well enough to realize
both pain and pleasure, and when
the day was over, he scarcely knew

of wliicli it Lad contained most.
Marjla had been so gay and happy and
withal so tender and kind, so thoughtful
for him, and yet veiling her thoughtful -
ness with so fine a tact, lest he should
feel his weakness too keenly, that his heart
ached even while it went out to her in
love. He did not know that it cost Martha
no small effort to make that one day perfectly
happy for him. She was all this
time possessed by a feeling of restlessness,
for which she could not altogether
account, though she had no doubt it was
caused partly, at any rate, by the mere
fact that she was at Wells again. She
could not help contrasting her present
position with that she had occupied
then ; and when she saw how much
of the change was due to Cuthbert, the
thought bred in her a dangerous intensity
of feeling for him, which she had

not always the prudence to hide altogether.


She had brought the manuscript of her
new novel with her, knowing that she
would feel lost and helpless without it.
Cuthbert was deeply interested in it ; he
thought it would add considerably to her
fame, and he was almost ready to forgive
her intimacy with Mr. Grant, when he
saw what a masterly study of his character
she had made. But he felt apprehensive,
when he suddenly found himself face to
face with Mrs. Torkington, and he told
Martha frankly that he thought she ought
to make some changes in that part of the
book.

It is too life-like," he concluded ; " it
is impossible that you will not be found
out."

I do not give her credit for so much
self-knowledge," she replied. *' Her

friends will find her out of course, but
they will not tell her, and I am sure she
will see nothing'*

I think you are mistaken ; and if you
are, she will never forgive you."

She will honour me with her bitterest
hatred, and watch eagerly for an occasion
to cast a stone at me."

*' Well, you know that is not wise. I
do wish you would learn to weigh the
consequences of your actions before you
do them."

"Nay," she replied, "I really can't
carry a pair of mental scales about with
me to weigh every word and deed."

She confessed that she had now done
with Mr. Grant, and did not care how soon
he left Milford,

How you contradict yourself," he said;
'' when we were talking about him a few
days before coming here, you spoke as if

you were going to be occupied with him
for an eternity."

'* Oh, that was partly to tease you, you
were so excited, and partly to keep up the
conversation. T think I shall write to him
from here, and gently insinuate that I do
not want him any more, and he need not
come to see me quite so often."

'' Do you suppose you will get rid of him
in that simple fashion ? To follow out a
parallel you once suggested yourself, he has
been a kind of psychological model to you,
and he will not go without his wages."

What can he want more than he has
had?"

"I do not profess to understand his
particular tastes ; but if you write him
such a letter, I should be curious to seethe
answer."

'' Well, I shall think about it," was her
reply.

'' I suppose you treated that man you
once told me about, and whom you called
Hie column,' very much as you have
treated G-rant?"

'' Really I don't remember, it happened
such ages ago, and I have a kind of regard
for Mr. Grant, whereas I had an honest and
straightforward hatred for the column."

I wish I knew more about your past
life, Martha," he said after a momentary
pause.

Are you afraid of finding some queer
secret in it ? "

I was not thinking of ' queer secrets,'
as you call them, but you do sometimes
take a tone of mystery which puzzles me."

Mystery ! I am the most candid
creature that ever breathed. There is nota
thing about my acquaintance with the
column which you may not know."

Why do you hate him ? "

VOL. II. Q

He gloried in doing that wliicli I
fancy you would rather die than be guilty
of. He spied upon me and tried to find
out things which did not concern him in
the very least."

Then the mysteries began before his
day. I suppose it was to punish him for
that that you lured him on to destruction,
as you called it the other day*'

Exactly."

He said nothing for a little time and
then burst out vehemently, 

I don't like it. I hate to think of it.
I have no doubt you were quite right, but
still I can't endure the thought of it. Let
us talk of something else,"

A day or two later the weather broke
hopelessly j Cuthbert was altogether confined
to the house and Martha felt more restless
than before. There came a day at
last when it rained in torrents all morning.

aud yielding to Cuthbert's importunities lie
stayed in-doors. After four o'clock tea
she felt an imperative desire to go out.
In addition to her natural wish to breathe
the strong, fresh air of the moors, she
wanted to arrange a chapter in her novel,
which failed to give her satisfaction as it
stood. She had been standing at one of
the windows of the drawing-room looking
out on the deserted tennis-ground, where
a melancholy-looking garden-chair still
remained under the now leafless oak-tree
standing od the lawn, and as a sudden
gust of wind made its boughs swing
roughly to and fro, she realized how
delicious it would be out on the open
moors with such a wind blowing in her
face, and she turned away and vvent upstairs
to put on her walking things, after
which she went in search of Cuthbert to
tell him what she was going to do.
Q 2

Sbe found him in the reading-robin,
busy with the newspapers. He looked up
in surprise when he saw her dressed for
eying out, and asked what her intentions
were.

She told him, adding, 

I must go if only to get that chapter
right. I shall never do it until I am out on
the hills by myself."

Well, but do not be late. It is so wet,

and the mist will come down en,rlj. If you

are late, I shall be anxious about you, and

imagine you have lost your way and got

swallowed up in a swamp or something."

It was with an exquisite sense of freedom
that she let the garden gate fall to
behind her and lifted her face to the
damp, earth-smelling west wind. At
first her thoughts wandered, but ere long
they returned to the engrossing subject
which had driven her forth, and she found

ideas teeming in her brain which had
seemed to stagnate in the close, fire-heated
atmosphere of the house.

The matter which was in her thoughts
arranged to her satisfaction, lie forgot
her promise to Cuthbert and did not turn
back. The keen pure air was like wine to
her ; with light and buoyant step she
walked on and on until she had reached
the gate on the highest ridge of moor
from where she saw down into both
valleys. Here she stopped, and leaning
her arms upon the gate, she put down her
umbrella, and heedless of the rain, stood
lost in thought.

She stood, forgetful of time, until a
sense that she was getting wet through
roused her, and then she remembered
Cuthbert, and felt guilty for having stayed
out so long. So she put up her umbrella
again and turned homewards.

She was surprised to find how the mist
had core down and spread all over the
moors, so that she could not see her hand
held up close before her face. Had she
been addicted to losing her presence of
mind, it would have been a fine opportunity
for wandering from the road and
spending the night in straying about the
moors in a direction just opposite to that
which she wished to take.

She paused for a moment to make sure
she was on the right track and then
walked straight home, not hastening,
because this damp, misty autumn evening
had an attraction for her, stronger
even than the knowledge that Cuthbert
would be feeling very anxious about
her.

It was quite dark when she reached
Middleton House, and as she paused in the
vestibule to take off her wet ulster, one of

the other visitors passed along the corridor
and stopped to say, 

I am glad to see you back, Miss
Goldengay ; did you meet Mr. Fleming ? "

''Mr. Fleming! I have been out."

'' Yes, I know ; but you were so late,
and the mist got so thick, Mr. Fleming
became very anxious and went out in
search of you."

Oh, no, you must be mistaken, he
could not be so foolish, it might be
fatal."

No, I am not mistaken, I saw him go ;
he was afraid you had got lost in the
fog."

Did no one try to stop him ? "

The lady, who, as Martha had once
pointed out to Cuthbert, bore a ludicrous
resemblance not to Miss Sharpe, but to
dear father himself, smiled as she
replied, 

'' I think we all pointed out that it
would be a very rash step to take,
especially as he did not know in which
direction you had gone ; but he insisted,
and of course we could not forcibly prevent
him."

Oh, he might have been prevented ;
he ought to have been prevented ! " cried
Martha, sinking into a chair. " Surely
some one might have shown him how
dangerous it would be ! "

The lady did not speak, and Martha
went on, 

Did he say in which direction he
was going ? I could go and try to meet
him."

'' There would be no use in that,"
said a gentleman who joined them at that
moment. " You would only miss one
another. The best thing to do is to wait
here ; when Fleming finds how thick the

fog is, he will see at once that it is useless
trying to find any one, and "will come home
at once."

If he had done that he would have
been back now," rising restlessly as she
spoke. I am afraid that he has got
lost."

*' Oh, no, that would be absurd," said
the gentleman in a consolatory tone.

Oh, yes ! " turning towards him with
a swift, graceful movement. ** The whole
thing is absurd ; and the most absurd
part of it is that My. Fleming has risked
his life for me."

Before any one could speak, the door
opened to admit Cuthbert, who came in
wet through and staggering with fatigue.
In the brilliant light he did not at first see
Martha, and he threw himself into a chair,
saying,

Oh, God, I cannot find her ! "

' Cuthbert," she said, going up to him
and calling him by his Christian name for
the first time before witnesses, ' I am
here. Why did you not wait for me, I
was in no danger ? "

He seized her hand with a cry of joy,
and then burst into tears.

CHAPTER XII.

Death is near thee : is then death so ill
With me beside thee 1 "

The result of Cuthbert's expedition in
search of Mary la was a terrible attack of
inflammation of the lungs, which at one
time threatened to end fatally. Martha
nursed him through it all with a patience
and gentleness which few people would
have supposed she possessed. She was
penetrated with a deep sense of gratitude
and admiration for what Cuthbert had
done ; admiration which was in no wise
diminished by the utter foolhardiness
of the deed. She nursed him alone
with the help of a nurse; the doctor
had more than once expressed a wish

that Mr. Fleming's relations should be
sent for, but Cuthbert refused to sanction
the scheme, and Martha herself felt
that this was neither the time nor the
place for her to make the acquaintance of
her friend's family. She replied serenely
to the doctor's remonstrances when the
patient lay in a very critical condition,
that she fancied dying people were] like
those in a faint, they needed air and
space, not crowding of sorrowing relatives
round their beds. At any rate, she and
Cuthbert had their way.

It was no longer possible to keep their
retreat a secret from their Rilford friends.
Business letters came which needed instant
attention ; tidings of Cuthbert' s illness
had to be sent to his chiefs, and there was
only Martha to answer the letters and send
the news. She did it all very naturally
and simply, without a thought of the

gossip to which her present occupation
would give rise in Rilford, and ignoring
the fact that by the few remaining guests
in Middleton House she was looked upon
as exceedingly eccentric and fond of carrying
things to extremes.

The time came when Cuthbert was sofar
recovered that judgment could be pronounced
upon him, and the evil which his
illness must leave behind might be
measured. Mary la felt both anxious and
nervous as she sat in the doctor's
consulting-room, waiting for him to speak.

He was a man of many words, but he
had this in his favour : when he saw that
any one under his care was resolved to
hear the truth about his case, he always
told it, let it be as saddening and serious
as it would ; and Martha had come this
morning to hear the truth about Cuthbert.


She had to listen to a great deal which

did not appear to have much reference to

the subject, before she got to the gist of

the matter ; but at last it came. Doctor

Parkinson had been in consultation with

more than one physician of credit and

renown, greater than his own, and each

had endorsed the opinion of the other.

The opinion to which they had come was

that Mr. Fleming had let things go on too

long ; his constitution, such as it was, had

been ruined before this attack, and now

there was no hope. It was too late to

arrest the disease, or even to retard its

natural termination. It must run its

course, and in two years, or less, if Mr.

Fleming were not exceedingly careful, its

course would be run.

Martha listened in silence, though she
went very pale. She did not hear the
warm praise which the doctor bestowed

upon ter for her care of the sick man, and
she was only roused by hearing him

Of course he must be told, and I
should like your opinion as to the most
fitting person to tell him."

*' I will tell him,"

I was hoping you would say that,
though I should never have asked you ;
believe me, I should never have asked you.
If you do not feel strong enough, and after
all you have gone through your strength
might well fail you, I will do it. But a
woman, Miss Goldengay, we all bow before
a woman's wisdom in such cases."

*' I am quite strong enough," she
answered, repressing a smile. " I wish to
tell him because I think he will bear it
best from me."

I have no doubt of it. When will you
tell him, do you think ? "

I cannot tell you ; not just now. I
must think about it first. I will go upstairs
again, and sit with Mr. Fleming till
lie goes to sleep, then I will go out and
think it over."

She rose as she spoke, as though to put
an end to the interview. Her face was
absolutely colourless and her eyes had
rather a peculiar look in them.

When the doctor had gone, she went
upstairs, and found Cuthbert very wide-awake
and not at all inclined for slumber.
She could not talk just then, so she took
up the book she had been reading aloud,
hoping the sound of her voice would send
him to sleep.

But it did not, and after awhile it was
dinner-time, and then she had some letters
to write ; it was late in the afternoon
before Cuthbert had his nap, and she was
free.

She put on her thugs and went out.
It had been a beautiful day, bright and
frosty, and the evening was equally
beautiful. The sky was perfectly clear,
with a star showing here and there, and
a hazy red glow marking where the sun
had set.

She walked on until she had reached
some rocks which lay in the clearing of a
wood, and from which there was an
exquisite and extensive view of the valley.
She could see very little of it now, but she
knew that she could look away in front of
her and know that there was in reality
nothing to intercept her view until the
hills rose dimly in the distance. She
wore the same fur-lined garment in
which Cufcbbert had seen her when he
went to Devonshire Street for the first
time, and so protected from the cold, she
sat down upon a lodge of rock, and
VOL. II. B,

thought oE what ths doctor had told her
in the morning, and of a proceeding
wln'ch had since suggested itself to her.

'* Two years ! " she said half alone,
*' two years ! I must do it, I must give
him those two sears. I am not generous,
even after this, I could not have given
him my whole life, but I cannot deny
him these two years, He would be so
happy, and he has done so much for me,
he is entitled to some reward beyond mere
friendship. He has laid down his life forme.
Surely I can spare him two years
out of mine. It is such a little time, we
can be happy for so long. Yes, for two
years I will be his wife, I will tell him so ;
it ought to be, he has a right to it. When
he knows about himself, he will not ask
me again, but if he did, I could not deny
him, so it is more fitting that I offer him
what he would not ask for. For the rest

of Its life be shall be happy, and I will be
happy too."

There was a long pause, and then she
wi;nt on, 

And yet, I am doing you a grievous
wrong, Maurice. I did not love you, I
do not love you now ; but I meant to be
true to you, and when you came back, to
give you a fair chance of winning my love.
Now T am going to betray you horribly."

She paused again ; her face was exquisitely
beautiful as she looked out
into the gathering dusk, her soul full of
tenderness for these two men, who were
utterly unknown to one another, and
both of whom she was going to wrong.

I am sorry, Maurice, sorry from my
heart," she went on, "but I cannot help
it, I cannot act otherwise. I owe him
this, he has a better right than you. Only
do not come home before it is over, do not

return before your time hoping to take me
bj surprise; surprises never succeed.
Avait till he is dead  Cuthbert dead."

She was silent again ; she was not
weeping, there were no unshed tears in her
eyes, but her face was very pale, and the
expression it wore showed that she was not
forming her resolution without an immense
struggle.

Forgive me, Maurice, forgive me,"
she began again. " I am not giving up
less than I am taking from you. When
I have done this, my ideal too will be gone.
But I am hard pressed, and you are not
here. You never have been here ; you went
away and left me alone in a very great
difficulty. He has done more for me than
you ever did, he has the first right. He has
given his life for me ; you must do more
than that before your claim can equal his.'
After this she sat silent for some time ;

then with a long sigh, she rose, wrapped
her cloak more closely round her, and went
home.

Cuthbert was awake when she went into
his room, and she decided to tell him
at once; so she took her usual seat by the
bedside and said, 

I want to tell you something, Cuthbert ;
or rather two things."

'news?"

Yes, both news."

Well, let me hear them. Are they
bad or good ?"

One is bad, and one is good, I
think."

Then they will balance one another,
and leave me pretty much as they found

me."

I don't believe they will do that's

'' Well, tell me them."

Which will you have first ? "

"The bad."

I am very glad you have crimson it,
because it is the one I should hive toil
first. But it is something very bad, you
must prepare yourself for a terrible shock.
It may help you to hear that it comes from
Dr. Parkinson."

What, does he say I shall not get
better ? "

You \ill get better, but for a time
only. Things had gone too far before you
Jiad this illness; now it is too late todo
anything, and in two years it will be
finished."

He lay silent, looking at her and trying
to take it in.

Two years ! " he said at last. '* You
must be mistaken, Martha, he could not
have said two years ; he meant ten."

'' No, Cuthbert, it was two," laying her
hand on his.

''T\TO years! " he repeated to himself.
'' I had no idea I was so near the end ; I
can't believe it.

Two years, two little years, two drops
of time. Two years  twenty-four months,
and after that  nothing. It is sncli a
strange idea, I can't take it in. hy, two
Tears ao-o I came to Rilford, and it seems
like yesterday. It will be gone before I
have got used to the idea. How long is it
since you told me ? We must count every
minute now. I'll have an hour-glass, and
watch the sands run out in good earnest,
and you must stay with me to turn it, and
keep count. You won't leave me, promise."


Before she could answer, he \as speaking
aofain.

*' If you will promise that, I shan't
mind. If I thought you would nurse me 
I suppose I shall want nursing  it would

make up for it. I would ratio live two
years, and have you always with me, thana
thousand and only see you now and
then."

Would you ? Would it really make all
that difference to you ? "

Ah, my dear, it is only because of leaving
you, that I care at all'*

She took both his hands in hers, and
looked at him steadily as she said, 

Would it make it more easy for you,
if during those two years I was your
wife ? "

' My wife, did you say my wife,
Martha? Am I dreaming, or did you say
you would be my wife ? *'

He had seized her hands in his turn, and
was holding them with a strength which
she had not thought he possessed, and his
very life seemed suspended as he waited
for her answer.

'' If it will give you any pleasure," she
said, " I will be your wife."

You have given me nothing but pleasure
; I feel no pain, now, no sorrow ;
nothing but joy, for you will be my wife.
The greatest happiness I ever dreamed of
Till be mine."

He sank back exhausted, but when
Martha tried to withdraw her hands, he
held them tight.

No, no, if you leave me I shall think
it was a dream. Stay with me."

I will stay, I do not wish to go, but
you must free my hand, you will make
yourself ill again, and you must take care
now, for my sake."

But," he said when he was calmer,
you used to make much of an insuperable
obstacle. What has become of it ? Where
has it gone ? "

*' It has been overcome."

I always said yoa made too much of
it. Tell me now what it was."

"Nay," she replied, "yoa must not
ask that. It is a little secret I shall
always want to keep."

"You may have that one; I d3n'c
mind yielding when I have some real
authority."

I want you to promise me one or two
things," she said after a pause.

Anything, except to give you up."

He spoke in the fulness of his love, forgetful
of words she had once said ; but
she remembered them and looked at him
with a half smile, thinking, 

You have one chance left, Maurice."

Then they began to talk, and talked till
the gong summoned Martha down to tea.

As soon as Cuthbert Vias fit to travel,
he was moved to Rilford, where the
wedding was to take place at once. It had

been arranged that tliej should straightway
go abroad and not return until they felt
inclined. All Cuthbert's relations came
over for the wedding, and though they
admired Miss Goldengay very much, they
looked at her somewhat askance. It was
true they had every reason to feel grateful
to her, but if all they heard was true, her
conduct had partaken of unconventionality.
Cuthbert delighted in seeing them together
and drawing well-worn comparisons, in
which Miss Goldengay was likened to a
sun among lesser planets, a moon among
the stars, a rose amidst the other flowers,
and many other fanciful things which
had occurred in similar circumstances to
many other people before himself.

The original plan had been that the
wedding should be quiet; but Martha
soon discovered that Cuthbert was very
sensitive about it, and anxious that the

marriage should be solemnized with as
much pomp as if they might reasonably
expect to celebrate their golden wedding.
She went straightway to her dressmaker
and chose a wedding garment o surpassing
splendour, and had her reward in the joy
which Cuthbert manifested when he saw
her in it.

Three weeks after their return from
Wells, they were married in a church
crowded with people, most of whom
were personal friends and filled with

amazement at the rumours they had heard

/

respecting the origin of this sudden and
unexpected marriage. Others came as
they would have come to see any other
show, and they had their reward. Miss
Golden gay looked regal as she walked up
the aisle in her robe of white brocade and
leaning on the arm of her uncle. She
wore no veil, and those near her saw her

glance more than once at the church, the
people, and her own dress, with an expression
of countenance suggestive of inward
amusement. Time service was much
shortened, so that it was over very soon.
There was no breakfast but an " At Home "
in the afternoon, where Mrs. Torkington in
maize satin and white lace was conspicuous.
The bride and bridegroom left Rilford by
the night express to London.

CHAPTER I.

Read thou this challenge."

It was May of the following year when
the Flemings began to think of going
back to England, and at the end they
made up their minds rather suddenly.
Cuthbert had wanted to go some time
before, but Martha had been unwilling to
face a possibility of east winds for her
husband. All they had gained by wintering
abroad, had been more sunshine and
open-air exercise for Cuthbert ; he was no
stronger than when they left home. With
2

out telling any of their friends, they lead
consulted more than one doctor famed for
his skill in Cuthbert's particular complaint,
and they had visited many places where
the air is supposed to work miracles even
in cases which have been given up as
hopeless; but they brought away no
comfort. The doctors had examined
Cuthbert and then shaken their heads and
said it was too late  to do anything ; the
disease must have its way. It would be
better to go home and there await the
end. The places which were crowded
with consumptive people going through
cures," worked no miracle in Cuthbert's
favour, and the sight of all these men and
women gathered together to wage war
with death affected him so painfully that
Martha was glad to get him away.

'Early in the spring, while they were
still Abroad, Martha's new novel and

Cuthbert's new volume of essays appeared.
The success of both-was very great. As
Cuthbert had foreseen, the novel added
much to its author's fame ; it became the
rage. The first edition was sold at once,
and a second called for before Martha,
just then in a remote French village
where the postal arrangements were
strangely primitive, had heard of her fresh
success. Cuthbert was wild with excitement
and joy ; he ignored his own book,
which he said was nothing, a mere swan's
song, was prouder of his wife than ever,
and wanted to start for England that very
day that he might see anther for himself.
Martha opposed the plan, saying she
very much preferred the peace and quiet of
the village, to which they were the only
foreigners who had ever penetrated, to
the society of gaping crowds, who would
be astonished to find 'that a celebrated

authoress walked like the rest of the
world by putting one foot before the other.
So she argued, and Cuthbert gave way.

She was rather surprised to find how
happy she was all this time, and how little
she missed the busy town life to which
she had grown accustomed. Though she
very often thought of Rilford and her
friends there, it was with philosophic calm,
and she never felt any uncomfortably
strong desire for their society. She had
laughed and shrugged her shoulders on
hearing that Mr. Grant and his predecessor
at the Infirmary had effected a permanent
exchange of practice ; moreover she made
a malicious and clever remark about it
which delighted Cuthbert. She found life
with her husband alone very pleasant and
satisfying, and she lived in the present and
thought the future might very well take
care of itself.

It was the principle upon which her
whole life had been ordered, and she had
not yet met with any checks serious enough
to cause her to doubt the soundness of her
philosophy Now and then, it occurred to
her that there were two men lidng, now
far enough away, and perfectly harmless,
but who might, if chance or fate brought
them back to England before their
appointed time, make her position exceedingly
awkward and cause her a great deal
of trouble. One of these men she knew
well, he had a jealous and vindictive disposition.
When he found she lead married,
his rage would know no bounds, and she
might count with certainty upon his
untiring enmity. She would need all her
coolness, all her courage, besides all her
woman's wit to contend successfully with
him. She thought sometimes of her long-past
conversations with this man, of the

weapons which, to ensure her safety for the
moment, she had put freely into his hands ;
weapons which, instead of rusting with
disuse, had only gained a sharper edge and
a greater sureness. Now had come the
time to employ them with success. She
had attained a greater height of fame than
she had ever hoped for in the days when
she had been only looking forward to it.
She was the first novelist of the day, and an
idolized wife ; should this man come home
before his time, he could with a turn of
his hand, upset her proud position, strip
her wedding-ring from her finger, and
cause people to wag their heads and say it
was only by wandering in crooked paths
that a woman gained such knowledge as
she had shown.

But why should he come back ? he had
gone for a term of years, not half his time
had yet passed by ; what was to bring him

home sooner than he was expected? why
should she disturb her peace of mind by
conjuring up such dismal ghosts ? and if
he did come, she had managed him before,
she could manage him again ; they would
fight to see which was the stronger, and to
the strong should be the battle. So she
dismissed him with a snap of her fingers.

From what she knew of the other man,
he might bo almost as dangerous, from the
very difference of his nature. She remembered
him an ardent, enthusiastic and hotheaded
youth, unused to admitting the
right of any person or thing to come
between himself and his wishes. Time
and change, difference of life and surroundings
moonlit have modified, but would
scarcely have altered his character. If
fire and flint were to meet, the result would
be rather curious than comfortable. Reviewing
the situation with strict impartiality,

she came to the conclusion that she
would rather contend with Stephen Knox,
whom she knew, than with Maurice Wing-field
whom she did not know.

At the same time there was no reason
to suppose that she would have to contend
with either of them. Her married life was
to last only two years, there were no signs
that it would be miraculously prolonged,
and neither of these men was expected home
within that time. She had every cause
to feel happy and at ease, and she
felt happy and at ease accordingly; and
her happiness Alas like sunshine on a
winter day. She laughed easily, and said
she felt immortal. When she rose day
after day with this feeling of immortality
upon her, was it any wonder that Cuthbert
loved her, worshipped and cherished her,
as if she had been an angel from heaven ?
His heart swelled every time he looked at

lier, heard her voice, or saw her smile.
He was happy too, he put from him the
thought of yhat he sometimes chose to call
his approaching dissolution," and lived
only in the present.

They wandered from place to place,
enjoying everything and denyingthemselves
nothing. Seeing how short a time her
husband lead to live, Martha was resolved
that every whim and fancy he expressed
shoukl be gratified ; she lived only for hi in,
and her intimate knowledge of his character
enabled her to procure him pleasure
in a hundred ways which would have been
missed by any one else. It required a very
fine tact, and no little self-denial to find
out that delicate and easily-tired though he
was, she added to his happiness in letting
him still undertake all her business correspondence,
and that though he made no pretence
to a Spartan endurance of pain and

weakness, he would have been deeply hurt if
she had not let him wait upon her and save
her trouble as he had been used to do.

After all their wanderings they finally
halted at the remote village in southern
France, of the beauty of which they had
heard by accident, and which they had some
difficulty in reaching. There was rather
a primitive inn, which had never before
been requested to extend its hospitality to
foreigners, but which adapted itself to
circumstances with a speed and cheerfulness
characteristic of the national mind,
and which Martha beheld with a sigh of
pleasure and relief. Cuthbert had in
advance taken a great fancy to the
place, and she did not wish him either to
be disappointed in it, or to be forced
through lack of accommodation to go
elsewhere.

They had reached St. Pierre late in the

winter, and were still there in May
when that occurred which gave Martha
courage to face the end of an English
spring.

Letters were brought to St. Pierre
when there were ans, which had happened
rather frequently during the past five
months, and the villagers had grown
quite accustomed to the sight of the old
man, who was wont to hobble straight to
the little inn, deposit there all he held in
his hands, and depart again.

One day Mary la, amongst other things,
got a letter from her publishers. On
opening it, lie found it contained an
enclosure, addressed in an unknown or
unremembered hand, to '' Miss Martha
Goldengay," in the care of the said
publishers. She opened it, and looked at
the date. It was written at a hotel in
Calcutta. She turned to the signature,

and half smiled when she saw that the
name at the end was Stephen Knox.

She looked at it for a moment in silence.
It was in the morning, and she was sitting
out of doors with her husband drinking
coffee. She was dressed in white, as he
liked to see her, and wore at her throat
and waist some red roses he had just
gathered for her from the tree which
climbed up the house to the very roof.
Cuthbert had letters too, with which he
was busy ; so that he did not see that
after the smile she dropped the letter into
her lap, and looked at it for a few seconds
as if it had been an ugly insect which had
dropped into her dress from the tree
under which she was sitting.

Presently she took it up and read it,
and this is what she read : 

Dear Miss Goldejgay,  It is so long
since I had the pleasure of seeing you,

that viii niiglit almost be justified in
thinking we were never going to meet
ao\iin. I trust it will not be so. Old
friends are proverbially tenacious, and
though we have been very widely separated
I have never lost sight of you.
You have more than fulfilled the promise
of attaining great fame which you once
made me, and on that subject I owe
you an apology ; after leaving you, I
sometimes doubted your foresight. Did
you know I had come to India ? I came,
intending to stay some years, but the
climate does not suit my health, and as
I have found a substitute in my office, I
am at liberty to return to England. I
sail very soon, and once landed, I shall
lose no time in taking steps to find out
where you live, that I may offer my
congratulations in person. I have no
doubt you will be in London. Your last

novel has been -eiy extensively read out
here, and Has been undoubtedly the book
of the season. I will not trouble you
with nay opinion in a letter, but will
reserve it until I have the pleasure of
seeing you again. With kind regards,
Believe me,

Yours faithfully,

Stephen Knox."

When she had read to the end, Mary la
turned once more to the beginning and
looked at the date. Mr. Knox said he
was sailing very soon. She had no doubt
that he would be in End and in a fortnight
or three weeks at the latest. As she sat
musing over this unexpected intelligence,
Cuthbert folded up his last letter, and
turned to his wife, saying, 

You look rather disgusted, I hope there
is nothing disagreeable in your news."

Read it," she said,, giving him the
sheet of paper, *' it is from the column."

"He is confoundedly impertinent," he
said, his colour rising as he read. " Do
you suppose he will come to Rilford ? '

Oh yes, nothing Avill be more easy
than to find out where I live ; he is sure to
come."

Cuthbert said nothing, and she went on

with a smile, 

He will hardly be prepared to find
Marion there too."

'' Who is Marion ? "

"Mrs. Grant."

"Oh yes, I remember; it is rather a
complicated scheme, is it not ? "

It might become delightfully complicated,
but I don't suppose it will."

He did not of course know to what
she referred, but he thought he did, and
said, 

VOL. III.

I hope it won't, tliougli it would
almost serve Grant right for thrusting
himself into a place where he was not
wanted."

The subject dropped, but Mr. Knox
never knew how strong a weapon he had
put into Marjla's hands by writing hera
letter which she was able to show her
husband.

Cuthbert was not suspicious, and he
did not begin to distrust his wife, when,
a few days after the receipt of the
column's letter, she expressed a wish to go
back to England. He fell in with her
plan, and ten days after they had been
drinking coffee under the trees in their
French village, they had reached Rilford.

Martha, after giving some consideration
to Stephen's letter, concluded that the
chief, indeed the only thing for her to do,
was to be first in the field. If he got to

Milford first and heard that she was
married, there would be no chance of
keeping her secret, and she was resolved
that, at all risks, it should be kept from
Cuthbert.

c 2

CHAPTER II.

A most triumphant lady."

Mr. Knox readied England very soon
after Martha had had his letter. Having
learnt that she lived in Rilford, he wished
to go there at once, but business kept him
in London so long that Martha had had
time to return to Milford and establish
Cuthbert and herself in their new home,
before her adversary was able to leave
London.

Even poor Cuthbert, though he strove
hard to behave in all things as though he
had as long to live as other men, could
not persuade himself that there would be
any reason in furnishing a house for about

eighteen months. There was Martha to
consider too ; he could not leave her
burdened with a house and furniture to
get rid of as well as she could. She had
therefore entered into negotiations with a
house agent, and had rented a furnished
house, with a large garden and within
reasonable distance of town, though considerably
further away than either Devonshire
Street or Fenton Street.

It was a pleasant house, prettily furnished,
and she settled down with considerable
cheerfulness to await the coming of
her enemy.

Mr. Knox went cautiously to work.
He provided himself with letters of introduction
to two or three people in Milford,
and prepared his campaign carefully. He
knew nothing about Martha' s marriage ;
he avoided mentioning her, although by
indirect questions, he found her fame was

even greater than he lead supposed. He
heard for the first time of lier neve book,
which had come out a short time before, and
during his enforced stay in London, he
read it, and was forcibly struck by the
power it displayed. He no longer wondered
at the prophetic tone she had once
adopted in speaking of her own future,
and when he considered the height to
which she had risen, and then remembered
the invisible hold he had upon her, which
he could make her feel whenever he chose,
and he would choose his time well, his
heart beat fast with joy and triumph. He
had never forgotten or forgiven, neither
would he ever forget or forgive, the treatment
to which she had subjected him.
His vanity had been sorely wounded and
also, as a secondary consideration, his
heart. He had one of those natures in
which love towards the opposite sex showed

itself in a consuming passion for the person
upon whom he bad set his affections, and
a raging jealousy of any other being
towards whom that person showed any
favour. If he met with disappointment,
or opposition, his love would turn to bate,
as surely as, under certain circumstances,
certain kinds of wine turn to vinegar. He
had already met with disappointment and
opposition, and his love for Martha was no
longer the purely benevolent feeling it
once had been ; he could already contemplate
with composure, the possibility of
doing her a mischief. Some time she
must be made to repent the suffering she
had inflicted upon him, for he had suffered
very acutely at the time when she had
driven him from Stanedale, with careless
ridicule of him and his obtrusive love.
But he longed to see her again, and
satisfy himself that she was as beautiful as

ever, that in the midst of her triumph she
was happy, that she was surrounded by
many whom she called friends and some
wbo were genuine enemies ; that, in fact
she was in a position when his sudden reappearance
with her secret in his possession
would affect her very disagreeably
indeed.

He wondered if she was in love, married,
of course, she could not be, unless her husband
had died, and for an instant the
thought that it might be so, that by his
absence he might have forfeited his chance
of winning her, sent a cold chill over him,
and then he grew hot. The air of the
room in which he sat suddenly became
stifling, and he threw up the window and
leaned out into the cool night air. Then
it suddenly occurred to him that her husband
might have returned from wherever
he had been, and on reaching Rilford he

raiglifc find Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Wingfield
living together in most prosaic harmony
and prosperity. What Twould become of this
secret then, and of what use would it be to
him ? That, indeed, was the most likely
thing for him to find. It was probable
that she had known all the time the very
day of her husband's return, and had
been anxious only to have her secret kept
until then. That thought made him almost
hate her.

The day came when he could turn his
back upon London and travel north to
Rilford. It was late in the afternoon
dien he reached the town, and as he drove
to his hotel, he wondered what had
possessed Martha to settle in such a
place.

Sometimes Marda wondered too.

He had three letters of introduction,
and he decided to make use of one of them.

He often wondered, later, wliy out of
the three, lie close the one directed to
'lionel Torkington, Esq." He knew
nothings about Mr. Torkinoton, not even if
he were married or single, or in what
manner of business he was. Neither did
he know anything of the others. When
he used to think it over afterwards, he
came to the conclusion that his choice had
been directed by Providence.

On the following day he received a call
from Mr. Torkington, who came straight
from his office, to which Mr. Knox had
sent the letter. Mr. Torkington greeted
him with the cordiality which he showed to
friend and foe alike, and at once asked him
to go home with him and dine with him
and Mrs. Torkington, who, he knew, would
be delighted to make the ,acquaintance of
any one who was a friend of their friend,
&c.

Mr. Knox accepted, and in about half
an hour, Mr. Torkington took him out of
town to the quiet, pleasant street in which
his house stood.

On the way home it suddenly flashed
into Mr. Torkington's mind, that he had
acted rather hastily. He remembered,
that he was leaving town half an hour
earlier than usual, because his wife had
said they must dine early, or else they
would be so late for the conversazione. It
was too late now to undo his mistake, but
he at once explained the whole case to his
companion.

They have got some professor from
London who has been laying the foundation
stone of a new college here, and there
is a conversazione this evening. AYe don't
generally have such things so late in the
season here, but every one is going, so my
wife said we must go too, or else I don't

care about it myself. It was stupid of me
to forget, but if you will dine and then
go with us, my wife will be delighted, I
know."

Mr. Knox might have declined, but for
the words ' every one is going." It seemed
quite possible that he might see Martha,
so he accepted that invitation too, and ina
short time found himself seated at the
dinner-table with Mr. and Mrs. Warrington.


Mrs. Torkington was dressed for the
evening in purple satin and black lace, and
looked even more majestic than usual.
She was in very good spirits, and gave Mr.
Knox a great deal of information about
the people be was going to meet.

If you intend remaining in Rilford any
length of time, you may as well know all
about the people at once. There is very
good society here, as you will find when

you have been in the town a little longer.
To-night you will meet some of our very
nicest people ; professors, artists, and
musicians. I think you will admit that
although Rilford is not London, we have
no lack of talent."

I have heard of Rilford as a town
where there is not only a great deal of
talent, but a great deal of beauty."

You will say so after to-night, for you
will meet a lady whom I have heard
spoken of as being perfectly beautiful.
For my own part I think her face is a
little hard ; but she combines genius with
beauty, and carries all before her. Oh,
1 can tell you, you are very fortunate."

She must be speaking of Martha, and
Stephen's heart began to beat fast, but he
said, 

'you rouse my curiosity; may I ask
the name of the lady ? "

You have heard of Miss Martha
Goldengay, even in India, I have no
doubt?"

*' Certainly ; does Miss Goldengay live
here?"

' We are privileged to count her as a
member of our society, but we live in fear
and trembling."

She spoke the last words almost
solemnly, and at the same time broke offa
piece of bread and raised it to her
mouth with distended fingers and a
graceful turn of the wrist peculiar to
her.

'ein what way?" asked Stephen,
raising his eyebrows slightly.

Mrs. Torkington smiled bitterly.

"You must beware how you approach
her, and be exceedingly careful in her
presence. Her books are highly praised
for containing such life-like studies of

character, and so they should, for lie
acknowledges no restraint in her choice of
subjects. She has, when she chooses, a
very charming and sympathetic manner,
but it is all put on to entice you to confide
in her. She can read people at a glance,
and the result of her reading is to be found
in her books."

Perhaps the statement was slightly
involved, but Stephen guessed at once
what it meant. In a flash it was revealed
to him that Martha had made an enemy
of Mrs. Torkington, and that it would be
politic of him to make her into a friend.
So he smiled and said, 

*' I remember that characteristic of
hers long ago, when I knew her before she
had begun to write. I shall have great
pleasure in renewing her acquaintance."

Did you really know her ? how
interesting. I have often felt curious

about her past, it seemed so wrapped in
mystery. "Was she always as hard as she
is now, I wonder ? "

'' Is she hard now r "

'' None but those who can see below the
surface would find it out, but I have very
quick sight. Of course, strangers who
meet her just now, and hear the story of
her marriage, may be deceived, but I
know her well. I can read character
too."

A mist rose before Stephen's eyes, and
there was a singing in his ears. His hand
trembled perceptibly, so that he dared not
raise his wine-glass to his lips. After a
short silence, he said, 

*' I had not heard of her marriage ;
people seem all to speak of her as Miss
Goldengay."

"Yes, she retains her maiden name in
her books."

**AYhois her husband ? "

Mrs. Torkington proceeded to explain
who and what he was, how Miss Goldengay
had made his acquaintance, and as much
more as she could invent on so short a
notice, about their friendship and reasons
for manning. It was an entirely new
edition of the stores, with copious notes
and explanations, and edified both herself
and Mr. Knox highly. But her husband
at last interrupted rather impatiently, 

Oh, come, Flo, you have no proof of
all that ! it's nothing but gossip, you
know."

I assure you, Lionel, I have it on the
very best authority ; and if Mr. Knox was
once a friend of Mrs. Fleming's, he will
be interested in hearing everything about
her. Am I not risrht?" turnips to her

guest.

'' Perfectly," he answered, biting his

VOL. III. D

lip at hearing Marjla spoken of by her
new name, and Mrs. Torkmgton went

OUj 

'' Mrs. Grant, at any rate, would be
glad to hear of Miss Goldengay's marriage."


"Who is Mrs. Grant?"

She gave a somewhat lengthy explanation,
which left Mr. Knox with the impression
that Mrs. Grant was a young and
timid girl, who had not the courage to make
Martha's acquaintance ; though, as her
husband had recently made arrangements
to live permanently at Rilford, it was
possible she might emerge from her seclusion
and be present at the conversazione.
He felt a slight interest in her as another
of Martha's victims. Mrs. Torkington,
having given her explanation, returned to
the subject of the marriage, concluding
with the words, 

Oh, it is a perfect romance, I assure
yon. Some people say it was a very
foolish, reckless thing to do, others are in
raptures over her noble devotedness. For
my oT-n part, I have my private opinion,
but it is not a popular one ; I shall not say
anything about it just yet."

The time seemed very long to Stephen
before it was time to go to the Town Hall.
He was very silent, thinking of five people,
himself, :\Iaryla, her husband, and Mr.
and Mrs. Grant, who all seemed connected,
and he wondered how things would
fall out.

When he reached the Town Hall with
the Torkingtons, there were already a
great many people assembled ; but as they
walked through the different rooms, he
saw at a glance that Martha was in none
of them. Mrs. Torkington walked about,
greeting her friends until she was tired,
D 2

and then lie sat down and began to tell
Mr. Knox the private history of each
person to whom she had introduced him.
She felt a little disconcerted when he
interrupted her in the middle of one of her
favourite stories, to ask abruptly, 

'MYho is that lady?"

How you startled me ! which lady ? "

That handsome woman just coming in
with a gentleman."

*' That is Mrs. Grant. You see I was
right and she has come. I must go and
speak to her; won't you come with me
and be introduced ? "

If you will allow me, I think I will
defer the pleasure."

Naughty man ! We shall meet again ;
ait revoir

Left alone, Mr. Knox drew a deep
breath. He felt as if he had got into an
enchanted country. What was Marion

doing here ? If all that Mrs. Torkington
had told him vas true, she might become
a powerful auxiliary against Marjla. The
sight of his old love moved Lin not at all.
He saw that she was very little chant-ed ;
she was as handsome as of old, rather
colder and more unbending, perhaps ;
otherwise the same Marion whom he had
known years before at Stanedale. Evidently
nothing was known here of her
former acquaintance with Marli, or he
would have heard something of it from
Mrs. Torkington. He decided to cultivate
Mrs. Torkington ; the time might come
when she could give him valuable assistance
in the carrying out of his plans.
Then he fell into a train of thought about

o

Marion. It was so strange she should be
in this town, and so like her, that being
here, she should refuse to meet Martha.
He wondered why she had come out this

evening, when, if Mrs. Torkington was to
be believed, she had remained in the most
perfect seclusion since coming to Rilford.
Then his thoughts wandered off again to
Mary la. He was impatient for her to
come. How late she was ! Suppose she
did not come at all !

Even as the fear took possession of him,
there was a movement in the crowd, and a
man standing behind him, suddenly broke
off his conversation to say, 

'' Here she comes ! By Jove, how
beautiful she is ! "

And his companion  a woman  chimed
in,

Good gracious ! she is positively
gorgeous ; she has got on her wedding
dress."

Mr. Knox looked in the direction
towards which all eyes were turned, and
saw a sight which almost took away his

breath. Straight up the vast hall a
woman was advancing, more beautiful
than be had imagined it possible for a
woman to be ; she was dressed in a
sweeping robe of dead wlnte brocade, and
a large fan of white feathers hinig from
her waist. Her only jewel was her
wedding-ring. She was accompanied by
several people, to whom she was talking
with much animation, and she smiled
continually, as though she was too happy
to be grave. The happiness in her face
seemed somehow to communicate itself to
her movements, she walked with a light,
free step, suggestive of perfect harmony
between body and mind. There was
triumph in her face as well as happiness;
the proud, beautiful features were alive
with gladness and triumph. 'No one
would have imagined that she had a care,
or the shadow of a care, in the world.

Stephen drew a deep breath, and his
thoughts flew back to Stanedale, and a
girl whom he had known there. That girl
and this woman were one and the same
being; ho could scarcely believe it. What
a change ! jet, no, how much the same.
At that moment, she was standing not far
from him, listening to a man who was
talking to her. She smiled, and the smile
became a laugh, which called a responsive
smile upon the face of every one who
heard it, and took Stephen back to
Hay garth Church.

He remained in the background. He
wanted to watch her and await a good
opportunity of making himself known to
her. He was curious to witness the
meeting between her and Marion. At hist
it came.

Marion was present that evening, partly
on compulsion, partly from inclination.

Her liusbaacl had used this utmost powers
of persuasion to induce her to come, and
she had a high standard of wifely duty.
She was also tired of staying at home, and
as it seemed ordained that from this time
Milford was to be her home, it became
necessary to emerge from her seclusion.
She had also a teasing curiosity to see
Martha. Her marriage had been a true
relief to Mrs. Grant, and Marion argued in
her ignorance there would be no need to
speak to or take any notice of Mrs. Fleming.
So she dressed herself very becomingly
in black, received her husband's
compliments upon her appearance with a
somewhat frigid pleasure, and drove away
with him to the Town Hall. She experienced
a shock when she saw Martha, and
compared her present position with that
she had occupied as Mr. Richardson's
ward, and she presently realized that it

would be difficult if not impossible to avoid
speaking to her. She suddenly saY her
husband, who had left her for a few
moments, coming towards her with Mrs.
Fleming on his arm, and before she knew
what was happening, she found Martha
standing before her, and saying, 

How do you do, Mrs. Grant? "

She looked at her rather fixedly as she
spoke and held out her hand. Marion felt
as if every one in the hall were looking at
them ; there was an instant's hesitation,
during which she said to herself, 

'' I will not shake hands with her," and
then the weaker will yielded to the
stronger, and she found her fingers clasping
Martha's, and her tongue murmuring
polite nothings of some sort.

In a second they stood apart again,
Marion face very cold, and her heart
beating fast with anger and bitterness and

humiliation. Martha was already talking
to some one else, and thinking, 

*' How lie hates me ! If she and the
omniscient coleman were to take it into their
heads to conspire together against me, they
might vv'ork wonders."

Stephen, watching them from a distance,
felt his heart sink a little, as he recognized
the strength of her will.

Just then Mrs. Torkington joined him,
asking in some excitement, 

'' Well, is she at all like what you remember
?"

"Very," he replied briefly. 'which
of all those men talking to her is her
husband ? "

None ; he is standing close to you,
talking to that pretty girl. Good gracious !
there is her cousin, dressed like a girl of
eighteen, and she is fifty if she is a day."

Stephen bestowed but a passing glance

at the young lady, but lie looked long and
attentively at Cutlibert Cutlibert Fleming,
Martha Goldengay's husband. He saw
a tall, delicate-looking man, with a consumptive
complexion, and very bright eyes.
He bore upon his face unmistakable signs
of his short span of life, and Stephen
looked at him, thinking, 

She is right ; he can't have much
more than a year to live. Bat what a recklessly
daring thing to do. I wonder what
Twas her real reason for doing it."

The moment came when he resolved to
present himself before her. He had
watched her carefully ever since she had
come in, and he felt sure she had not seen
him. She was seated on a low couch
against a deep crimson curtain, and was surrounded
by men talking to her. Stephen
came round from behind, and appearing
suddenly before her, said abruptly, 

I believe I have liacl the pleasure of
meeting you before."

All ! " she said, looking up with a smile,
I had begun to wonder when you would
come and pay your respects to me."

'' Did you see me ?" he asked in surprise,
and rather astonished at her calmness. '' I
never saw you looking."

'' In a novel I once read," she replied,
I believe it was a French one, the heroine
is made to say, ' What is the use of being
a woman, if you can't see without looking ? '
We very often do it. The peculiarity of
men, on the other hand, is that they so
often look without seeing."

The people round her laughed, and
Stephen stood silent, not knowing what to
say.

It is so long since I got your letter,"
she went on, '' that I began to fear you had
perished in the Red Sea."

I should have been here sooner, Miss
Goldengaj," he replied, nettled at her
manner, and unconsciously using the old
name ; " but I was kept in London on
business."

' Have you not heard of my marriage ?
but now I remember, you have been swallowed
up so long in the wilderness, you do
not know even old news. You must make
my husband's acquaintance. Mr. Murray,
go and find my husband; say I want
him."

She watched with her whimsical smile
the way in which the taro men exchanged a
few words and then separated. Soon
afterwards she and Cuthbert left. She
gave her hand to Mr. Knox and bade him
call when he had a spare moment.

CHAPTER in.

"At blow and thrust."

Martha expected to see Stephen the day
after the soiree, nor was she disappointed.
As she sat in her husband's study, busy
with some writing she had undertaken for
him, the housemaid brought her a card
inscribed with the name of Mr. Knox.

When the girl had left the room, she
laid down her pen and leaned back in her
chair smiling to herself. She had expected
this, and had taken measures for being
alone when her visitor came, and undisturbed
while he stayed. After a few
moments spent in mentally arranging her
forces, she rose and went to meet her foe.

It was only natural that Stephen should
be less at his ease than Marjla. He was
very much excited ; he did not know what
he was going to hear, and he loved Martha
passionately. His feelings during the
preceding evening and later, when he
had got back to his hotel and spent half
the night in walking up and down his
bedroom, had convinced him that he still
loved her, and loved her more deeply than
he had imagined. On seeing her again in
all her magnificent beauty, with every
charm and attraction which had bewitched
him at Stanedale increased a hundredfold,
he felt his old passion flame up as
hotly as ever, and he had an uneasy feeling
that he would find it very difficult to
resist her. He had repeated to himself a
hundred times her invitation to call, and
had made up his mind that he would do
nothing in a hurry. He thought it

probable that she wished to get the
interview over, for it was impossible she
could look forward to it with anything
but dread ; and he felt inclined to keep
her in suspense. So he argued during
the night, for he slept but little, and had
ample time for reflection. But when
daylight came, and he knew that he
could see her whenever he chose, the
old fascination began to work ; and after
spending the morning in wandering about
and feeling horribly unsettled, telling himself
that he would not go and feeling all
the time that he must, he took a cab and
drove to the address Mary la had given
him.

lie was shown into a very pretty room
with a great many books, both old and
new, lying about, and the minutes seemed
very long until she came.

At last the door opened and he saw her.

VOL. III. E

She looked very fresh and fair, and she
came forward with a smile, saying, 

'' So soon ! Really this is very good of
you."

She dropped into a chair as she spoke
and motioned him to another. She did
not offer to shake hands, and he had
looked forward to holding her long white
fingers for an instant in his. Bnt he
swallowed his disappointment and seated
himself as nearly as possible opposite to
her. He noticed that she sat with the
light full u23on her face ; every expression
upon it would be perfectly visible.

Tor a short time they sat in silence, each
seemed waiting; for the other to besoin.
Martha spoke first.

Have you forgotten it ? "

'' Forgotten what ? "

What you came to say. I suppose
you did intend to say something."

*' I did. Do yon know what it was ? "

'' I should imagine it was to offer me
jour good wishes ; yon neglected to do so
last nisht."

'' You mean for you" married life, I
presume. Before I do that I inst make
sure that yon are married."

She could not help smiling. She had
not expected him to say that, and it placed
her in rather an awkward position. It
seemed as if she must deny one of her
marriages. She could not well deny her
marriage with Cuthbert, because it had
taken place only a few months before, in
the presence of hundreds of witnesses, in
this same town of Rilford. If she denied
the first, it was extremely improbable that
she would be believed. She had expected
him to be angry and rave, but this was
a clever thing to say, and, while it placed
her in a difficulty, she could not withhold
E 2



l"MiVFR5JrTV np iiiiNnf

from it the tribute of an appreciate
smile.

'soil," she said "the first does not count."

Then it is your intention to altogether
ignore it, and to behave as if it had never
taken place ? "

That is my intention," was her reply ;
and as she spoke her breast rose and fell
imperceptibly with a feeling of relief.
Stephen had spoken with some heat ; so
long as he remained cool, she would find
it difficult to manage him ; if he lost this
temper the victory would be hers. Her
last words irritated him yere much, and he
said with real anger, 

'' That plan might be very successful if
no one knew of sour first marriage ; but,
putting aside your husband, I know of it,
and I am by no means resolved to keep my
knowledge to myself."

He was very angry, and as he spoke

Martha leaned back comfortably in her
chair, for the game was in her hands.

What do you intend to do with it ?"
she asked.

*' I have not yet decided. But what
should you do, if I made up my mind to
tell Mr. Fleming?"

'' You don't call him my husband.
There are many things I might do. I
might forestall you and explain everything
to Mr. Fleming."

Explain ! May I ask how you could
possibly explain such a complication ? "

You must admit that I have not yet
explained anything to you, so that you
are scarcely in a position to judge. You
know neither why I got married, nor why
I unmarried myself, and your imagination
does not help you a bit."

She laughed as she spoke, and he bit his
lip with anger.

You might do that certainly ; what
other plan have you in reserve ? "

*' Or I might deny the whole thing.
I suppose you would not believe me if I
did that''

'scarcely; with the church register to
confront your denial."

Now tell me candidly what would be
your feelings if I were to prove to you,
explain you know, that the marriage had
not taken place within the legal time, that
owing to a mistake, which was not
discovered until after the service had been
read and the register signed, it had struck
twelve before ever we entered the church,
if you remember there was no clock in the
building. In that case, you must be aware
that the marriage would be invalid, and
you know how careless I am, I neglected
to have the register destroyed. Or
suppose," she went on, as he did not speak,

*' I were to reveal that as soon as the
wedding was over, both bride and bridegroom
repented and wished they had not
done it. If they separated immediately
after leaving the church, I believe they
would be at liberty to marry again. Is
not that English law ? You know either
of those might be true, I have explained
nothing yet."

'' 10 one would believe you, however
many such ipvettj fables you were to
invent."

It is easy to talk about fables. What if I
brought forward documentary evidence ? "

*' People would say you had forged it,"
he replied with a disagreeable sneer.

Her only answer was a provoking little
laugh, and he sat boiling over with rage.
It was impossible to tell how far she was
in earnest and how far in fun, or whether
she was wholly in earnest or whollvin fun.

While he was deliberating within himself,
she began to laugh again, saying, 

Tell me, I beseech you, what should
you do if I were to say that ? "

*' I should say you were taking up a perfectly
untenable position."

And you would not believe me ? "

Certainly not. May I ask if you have
anything better to propose ? "

Oh yes, I might write to Maurice, tell
him all, and ask him to come here to me."

*' Capital ! Do you think he would
come ? "

*' I know he would, if I made the least
sign that I wanted him."

I cannot see what you would gain by
doing that."

'* You are not imaginative. If you were
to tell your tale to Mr. Fleming, it would
kill him as certainly as if you stabbed him
through the 'heart. With Mr. Fleming:

dead, and Maurice to stand by me, do you
suppose I should care for anything you
could do ?

'rit is rather for you to ask," she went
on after a short silence, '' what you would
gain by telling your splendid secret."

What indeed ? It seemed that whether
he spoke or was silent, the advantage was
on her side.

Again her voice came to him low and
soft, and with a tone of delicate raillery
in it.

"Do you suppose that I should allow
you to tell such a story about me, unless I
had Maurice here to uphold the truth ? "

Would he stand by you ? You seem
to take it for granted; but it seems tome
very doubtful that a man would stand
by a wife who had acted as you have
done."

He would stand by me."

I do not believe it," lie cried passionately,
springing from this clair as he
spoke. " I do not believe a word of it ;
you are trying desperate means to get out
of what you have done. You knew I was
the only person who knew of your first
marriage, and you married Fleming trusting
to my not coming back to England
until after his death. But I have come,
and I wonder your heart did not sink with
fear when you saw me last night."

My heart is not in the habit of sinking
with fear."

There was a long pause, and then he
said, " I wish you would tell me your
reason for manning Mr. Fleming."

Martha's heart leapt with joy. She had
been looking for this question, because she
hoped by her answer to it to achieve great
things, but she merely arched her eyebrows,
saying,

'' Pray is he such a monster that I could
not have naarriecl him for love ? "

I know you did not marry him for
love. But I wish you would tell me why
you did marry him."

'' How persuasive you are, you quite
charm the truth from me. I married him
out of gratitude."

"Gratitude!"

'' Yes. I have rather a weakness for
gratitude. When people do things for me
really for me, not for themselves under
cover to me, you understand  I can deny
them nothing'. Mr. Flemings did such a
thing, he risked his life for me ; Int forme
his life would not be limited to a few
months, and, in gratitude, I married
him."

Indeed, I had no idea you had such a
gift. Perhaps you married Mr. Wingfield
for the same reason."

'' Yes," was the unexpected reply, " I
did."

Did he risk his life for you, too ? "

No. In fact my youthful enthusiasm
caused me to very much over-estimate the
service he did me ; in reality it was nothing
at all."

You admit that the marriage did take
place then ? "

"I am merely answering you in
the spirit in which you are questioning
me."

He said nothing, but sat drumming
with his foot on the floor. Martha looked
up suddenly and said, 

How odd that you should fall into
Mrs. Torkington's clutches ; how was
it?"

He told her about his letters of introduction,
and she answered, 

'' It was strange that you should choose

Mr. Torkington ; I do not know those
other men at all, nor do they know
me."

You would be surprised to see Marion
here; you did not know of it, I suppose


''jN'o; Mrs. Torkington had been telling
me about a Mrs. Grant, but I had no
suspicion who she was."

What did she tell you about her ? "

He repeated Mrs. Torkington's words,
and Martha smiled a little compassionately,
saying,

Poor Mrs. Torkington ! she commits
most frightful blunders at times."

'' But yourself ? You have told me
nothing about yourself yet."

'' Do you care to hear ? There is
nothing very exciting to tell you. Mrs.
Torkington could make a very much better
story of it than I can."

I don't want a good story. I want
facts."

You must wait till another day, then.
I am not in the humour for telling you
now, neither have I time."

'' May I come to see you again ? "

On one condition."

What is that ? "

Give me your word that you will not,
without letting me know it, mention to
Mr. Fleming what we have been talking
about this afternoon."

'' Suppose I will not promise ? "

'' Then we must be enemies, and I thought
I had shown you how little you would gain
by making an enemy of me. Remember,
I know more about this than you do, and
I tell you my position is quite secure."

There was a moment's hesitation, a
moment's struggle, and then he held out
his hand, saying, 

I promise."

She put hers into it, as she replied,


"I am always at home on Tuesday
afternoon."

Just as he was leaving, she said carelessly,


'' Of course, in thinking over this
matter, you will not have neglected to
take into consideration the possibility of

Mr. Wingfield being dead."

* * *

After her conversation with Stephen,
Martha's spirits rose high ; she was
gracious and happy even beyond her wont,
and Cuthbert felt as if his life were bathed
in sunshine. She was pleased with her
success ; she had sent Mr. Knox away not
knowing what to believe, and she had
won a promise from him which practically
ensured her safety. She, on her side, had

promised nothing ; she had only talked
vaguely about gratitude, but she knew
perfectly well what her words meant to
Mr. Knox ; and the additional weight they
would gather from time and being
brooded over, and from the constant
presence of Stephen in her house, and she
felt happy.

Stephen was not quite so well pleased
with the result of the interview. He had
entered Martha's home with a comfortable
feeling that he held, if not the life, at least
the honour and happiness of its inmate in
his hand. He had come out again with a
crushing sense of defeat. Of all the
weapons which he held, there was not one
which he could employ without its recoiling
upon himself. His sword's hilt was
sharper than its point, and, unlike Mary la,
he had always had a wholesome fear of
playing with edged tools. How much of

what she had said was true and how much
false, whether her '' suppositions " contained
the real facts of the case, he could
not tell ; he turned the matter over andover
again, thought of it night and day,
weighed chances and probabilities, and at
the end could make nothing of it. He
clung eagerly to her permission to call; with
the sight of her, the sound of her voice
and the touch of her hand, had come back
the old fascination, the desire to be near
her, and the powerlessness to resist her.
She had married Fleming out of gratitude,
and it was possible that Maurice Wingfield
was dead. In a few months Fleming
would be dead, and she would be free.
She evidently wished to keep her secret
from her husband, and he, Stephen Knox,
was the only person who could betray her.
Suppose he kept silence for her sake, what
would be his reward ? at present a free pass

VOL. III. F

to lier house, and in the future, a dim
possibility which lie scarcely dared to contemplate,
but from which he could not
altogether turn away. Ever in his ears
her voice was sounding, '' I married
Mr. Fleming from gratitude, there is
nothing I would not do for people who
have done me a kindness. If any one
has served me faithfully, I can deny
him nothing."

Vague, intangible words, no doubt, and
yet they set his heart on fire, and filled

him with boundless hopes.

* * *

In July the Flemings left Milford for
Stanedale, and did not return until
October. They were going to spend the
winter at home; Cuthbert preferred it.
He said he was tired of wandering about
foreign lands, and he got no good from it.
He would spend his last winter among his

friends, and Martha liumoiired him, as she
humoured him in everything. So they
settled down at home to wait the end, and
anything else that might happen.

F 2

CHAPTER IV.

"And well she can persuade."

Some of the readers who have followed
this story to its present point, may remember
that friend of Cuthbert's to whom he
had confided his flight to Middleton House,
and who had so clumsily blurted out his
knowledge in Mrs. Torkmgton's drawing-room.
It was his nature to be outspoken,
he could not help blurting thugs out and
taking people into his confidence on matters
which in no way concerned them. He was
a man who, in telling a story, could not
merely relate the incident which had led
up to it, but always told every circumstance
and detail, thereby often wearying

his hearers and exciting himself without
doing any good to any one. But, in spite
of this httlc failing, he was a very good
fellow, and a close friend of Fleming's.

He sat in his rooms one evening talking
to a man whose acquaintance he had
only made that day, a man who had just
returned from Xew Zealand, and had come
to E-ilford in very inch the same way as
Mr. Knox had done, knowing no one in
the town, but provided with a letter of
introduction. The man's name was Oliver
Dornford, and his host was under the impression
that he had come straight from
Liverpool to Rilford. Mr. Dornford did
not consider it necessary to undeceive him ;
he said he had come to Rilford because it
was a large and flourishing English town.
He had been in New Zealand nearly ten
years, and was curious to see a large English
manufacturing town.

'well," said Mr. Colman, 'ewe don't
talk much about beauty in connection with
Milford, though we have some very fine
public buildings. I shall be very glad to
show you what there is to be seen, and as
you come from ew Zealand, 1 dare say
our mills and warehouses will interest you
as much as anything."

Yes," said Mr. Dornford gravely, " 1
am very much interested in mills and
warehouses."

Then we have some fine pictures
belonging to the town. Are you fond of
good pictures ? "

Very," replied his guest, without the
least sign of enthusiasm.

And we have  ah, is not this Friday
evening ? "

I believe it is."

Then I can take you at once and show
you the most beautiful sight in Rilford ; a

sight wliicli, wherever it maj be seen,
always remains the most beautiful
present."

What is that ? a beautiful horse ? "

Xo, a beautiful woman."

'' You are right, that will be a treat ; it
is long since I saw a really beautiful
woman. In the colonies, we have crowds
of pretty girls, but scarcely any beautiful
women."

"Mrs. Cuthbert Fleming is a beautiful
woman, with a beauty which it makes a
man feel younger to see. Idle people goto
see her on Tuesday afternoons, but for
the benefit of toilers, like myself, she
consents to be visible on Friday evenings
too. This is Friday evening, and we will
go and swell the ranks of her admirers."

' Our duty is to admire
And to be admired is her duty,' "

quoted Dornford calmly.

'' You will admire as much as any one
before the evening is over."

"I have no doubt of it. When shall
we go ? "

 Any time during the evening will do,
but we will go early, because I should like
you to know Fleming himself. He is a
great friend of mine, and very clever, poor
fellow."

'why ' poor fellow '? "

I will tell you when you have seen him.
We'll have a cup of coffee and then go."

They had a cup of coffee and then they
went. The room was full of people, and
they saw Martha some time before she saw
them. She wore a dress of yellow silk, it
was a colour in which Cuthbert liked to
see her. Mr. Colman at once pointed her
out to his companion.

' See, there she is, in yellow silk, talking
to that tall, dark woman."

That is Mrs. Cuthbert Fleming? "

It is she, herself; now tell me if she
is not worth coming any distance to
see .

'there cannot be a don't of it; she
is the most beautiful woman I have ever
seen'

'' Did I not say so ? Come and be introduced
to her."

Xot just now. I should like to look
at her a little first, and let my eyes get
accustomed to her brilliance. In that
yellow dress she is a little dazzling."

*' You will find her rather dazzling
altogether when you know her*'

Well, suppose you give me a little
time to collect ray scattered senses. Let
us get into a quiet corner, and you can tell
me about her husband ; you said you
would explain why you called him ' poor
fellow.' AYhat is the matter? Aren't

they happy P Doesn't she love him, or
something ?"

Come here, then," said Colman, leading
Dornford into a retired nook and
preparing to tell his tale. " See," he went
on, '' there is Fleming, that tall, delicate
man who keeps coughing."

Dornford bestowed upon him the same
long, searching look with which he had
already contemplated Martha.

He looks in the last stage of consumption,"
he said at last.

He is in the last stage of consumption.
Just sit down, and I will tell you all about
it ; you may as well know."

Dornford sat down, and Colman at
once began his story, which he told withall
the detail in which he was wont to
indulge. But, as he was Cuthbert's friend,
and thought Martha a most charming
woman, the story sounded quite different

from that which Stephen Knox liacl heard
from Mrs. Torkington.

Dornforcl listened very attentively. Now
and then when Colman mentioned some
trait of Martha's character, he smiled as if
amused, and as he heard the story of how
and why she had married Cuthbert, his
face lit up with enthusiasm, and when
Colman had finished, he said in a tone of
deep conviction, 

That was a very generous and womanly
thing to do."

'' You think so ? I am glad you take
that view of it, I always did. You see, he
could not possibly ask her again after his
illness."

So she offered him just the one thing
which she knew would make him perfectly
happy for the short time he had to live.
It was a noble thing to do."

He spoke as if it gave him pleasure to

Proclaim aloud Marjla's noble deeds, and
went on, 

' It was all the more noble because she
did not love him. I think you said she
did not love liirn ? "

She had refused him in the summer for
that reason."

Dornford said nothing for a time ; a
wonderfully gentle look had come into his
face while Mr. Colman had been telling-his
tale, and he now sat looking at Martha
with a smile on his lips and a look in his
eyes, as though he saw her alone in all
that crowd of people. Suddenly he rose,
saying,

'' Now introduce me; it will do me good
to know her ; and I want to know her
husband too ; you say he loves her ? "

He worships the ground she treads
on, and I do not wonder, for she is an
angel of goodness to him. Tou are more

interested in it all, even than I had
expected."

'sit strikes me as being rather an interesting
story."

They crossed the room to where
Martha stood talking to Stephen Knox.
Cuthbert was near, not talking to any one.

Colman greeted them all and introduced
his companion ; Martha turned her head a
little quickly and looked at him. She saw
a tall man, large of limb, and well built ;
with a handsome bronzed face, eyes which
looked as if they could be both keen and
gentle, and a humorous mouth. She
took rather a long look before she said, 

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Dartford."


Mr. Knox had been watching her attentively;
not because he suspected her, but
because he always watched her when he
could. She exchanged only a few words

witliDoriiford, and then turned to Colman,
leaving the new-comer talking to Cuthbert.

But few words were needed to carry on
a conversation with Mr. Colin an, and
while Martha dropped her "yes" and '' no,"
indeed " and " very true," into the
swiftly flowing stream of his words, she
was carefully observing Mr. Dornford and
his face and manner as he talked to her
husband. What she saw appeared to
prepossess her favourably, for as she
watched them a smile grew about her
mouth, and after a rapid, but careful
survey of Dornford's outer man she made
up her mind to a bold cast, and to risk all
upon the chance of this man's honour and
faith.

She took advantage of a pause in
Colman' s monologue to ask, 

Did you say that Mr. Dornford had
just come back from New Zealand ? "

He got to Rilford last night, and came
to me with a letter of introduction from
my brother. You know I have a brother
at Christchurch."

'' "Will you ask him to come to me, I
want to talk to him."

Mr. Knox had withdrawn a little ; he
now came a few steps forward, on fire with
curiosity.

You have just come home from Xew
Zealand, I believe, Mr. Dornford ? "

' I have just come back. I am unfortunate
enough not to possess a home,
as I can't consider a hotel one."

"Until I married I considered ray
rooms a very comfortable home. I want
to ask you something which you will
probably think a yere' wild question, but
you may possibly be able to tell me.
I knew a man who went out to Xew
Zealand nearly ten years ago ; his name

was Maurice Wingfielcl. Did you ever
meet him ? "

Stephen heard her and Cuthbert heard
her. Cuthbert smiled at the name,
Stephen opened his eyes and held his
breath. Her husband was not dead, butin
New Zealand, and she was going to
question this man about him. He could
not help feeling a thrill of admiration for
her courage.

There was a short pause, and Dartford
looked rather surprised, before he
answered, 

What an odd coincidence ! I went
out in the same boat with him, and we
have been friends from the time we met ;
we were inseparable."

You must know him very well."

'' As well as I know myself."

I wonder if he is changed from the
time when I knew him ? "

"He is very miicli changed."

For the better, I hope ? " smiling.

He smiled too and raised this eyebrows.


He Las toned down a good deal and
overcome his youthful impetuosity, which,
from what he told me, must have been
rather in his way."

She laughed and looked whimsically at
him, saying, 

''He was very impetuous; poor
Maurice ! "

His eye met hers, and he laughed too ashe
replied, 

''I think he has seen his folly,
and been working hard to get a little
wisdom ; he has overcome many of his
faults."

Are you going to stay long in
England ? "

I cannot tell. I came over on

VOL. III. G

business, but I do not know when it will
be settled."

Some more people came into the room
at that moment, and she gave Dartford
her hand, saying, 

'*I hope you will let us see more of
you. Milford is a wretched place for a
man without friends."

She smiled very kindly as she moved
away, and Dornford looked after her fora
moment in silence, then turned and continued
his interrupted conversation with
Cuthbert.

Stephen watched her too, and his heart
grew hot and bitter within him. The
spell was at work, Martha had scored a
very strong point in making admission to
her house the reward of his keeping silence.
He could not have lived without this
frequent sight of his idol. Friday evening,
and the words  few or many according to

her humour  which he exchanged with
her, had become as meat and drink to him,
and unless some unforeseen occurrence
fanned into a flame his ever-smouldering
jealousy, he would remain silent for ever
rather than forfeit his intercourse with her.
He felt that he was at a great disadvantage.
He and Cuthbert were perfectly
antagonistic one to another, the
new-comer, on the other hand, seemed to
please Fleming, and would therefore bea
more welcome guest at the house than
himself.

His chances seemed small; he felt that
he had every reason to feel injured and
bitter, and he left early as a consequence, j

He would have been still more angry if
he had known that Dornford and Colman
stayed after every one else had gone, and
that when at last they left, Martha's
parting words to Dornford were, 
G 2

'' Come and see us often, and if you can
look in tomorrow, about four o'clock, I
shall be alone, and should like to hear news
of Maurice."

CHAPTER y.

If I do vow a friendship, I'll person it
To the last article."

Dornford's coming proved a godsend to
both Cuthbert and Martha. With the
tenacity of an invalid, Cuthbert clung to
his new friend, and was restless and unhappy
if a day passed without his coming
to the house. He dined there nearly everyday,
and generally stayed till late in the
evening. He humoured all Cuthbert's
caprices, and bore his varying moods with
almost a woman's patience. He felt very
pitiful towards poor Cuthbert, the sands
of whose life had so nearly run out. The
pity was never visible, only he was gentle
and patient, as it is in the nature of few

men to be. As the end drew nearer, and
Cuthbert needed more nursing, he became
invaluable. Martha, with her strangely
dependent nature, grew to lean upon and
trust in him almost entirely. He helped
lier so much, he was so strong and gentle
in the sick-room, so cheerful and full of
comfort and suggestions when they were
alone together. Then they talked chiefly
of New Zealand ; to an outsider it would
have seemed strange that Dornford's own
name was mentioned so seldom and Wing-field's
so often ; also that Martha took so
much more interest in the affairs of her
absent friend than iu those of the man
who was present with her and doing her
such service. A change was coming over
Martha. It was now the early spring, and
no one could hope that Cuthbert would
live beyond the autumn. It was only
natural, then, that she should be graver

than formerly ; but there were other
features of the change which were not
so easily explained. Cuthbert alone understood
its meaning. The enlightenment
had come one evenings when Dornford was
not present, and Colman and some other
men had been speaking of him and maintaining
that he would make a very fine
subject for that particular kind of novel
which Mrs. Fleming wrote. Mary la had
agreed to the idea, but had said that, to
her, Dornford's character seemed too fine
to be analyzed and dissected as she was
accustomed to analyze and dissect characters,
she was willing to take him on
trust.

Cuthbert heard the words, and went
back in memory to a long-past day.
Then he bowed his head, and after a day
or two of intense bitterness of spirit,
during which he could not bear even to

see Dornford, lie acknowledged that it was
very good.

He was very fond of talking to Oliver
about Martha, and the subject did not
appear to weary his friend. He spoke
of her always with the greatest enthusiasm;
marriage had only increased his
love.

'' I am not exagfoeratinof," he said one
day, '' when I say that she has made these
last two years a paradise. If I were to
talk all the rest of my life, I could not tell
you how good she has been to me, or
describe her science, her sweetness, her
unwavering tenderness and affection. For
these last two years she has given herself
wholly up to me. She has put aside her
work, left the life she loved best, and
devoted herself to fulfilling my wishes.
She has been at my beck and call, whatever
I wanted I had. If an anofel from

heaven bad come down to nurse me, its
presence could not have been more divine
than hers."

He paused to steady his voice, and
Over looked into the fire without speaking.


"When I am dead," went on Cuthbert,
*' I do not know what she will do. I often
feel very anxious about her. She is so
careless ; she is scarcely fit to live alone.
I have wondered sometimes if you would
look after her a little."

As far as lies in my power, I will take
every care of Mrs. Fleming "

You have been here some time ; I fear
your business may take you back to New
Zealand before then."

My business is not pressing, I shall
stay here as long as you want me."

'rand when I want you no longer,
Martha will want you. I have a feeling

that some time she will want you more than
I have ever done."

I trust you do not fear any danger
for her."

I cannot tell. To be quite candid, I
know very little of Mary la's past life. I
have told you all about our friendship and
how we got married. From the very first,
you see what a noble creature she is. But
when I first asked her to marry me, she
talked about an insuperable obstacle, which
would have barred the way had all else
been clear. She never told me what it
was, and when, after my illness, she came
and made her generous offer, I asked what
had become of the insuperable obstacle.
She said it had been overcome, but still did
not tell me what it had been. Since then
and especially during the last few months,
I have often thought about it, and felt
afraid lest, in her careless, impulsive way,

she slioulcl have exaggerated her freedom.
There is that fellow Knox, I never liked
him. She used to know him long ago, and
he once wrote her a very impertinent letter,
of which I rather foolishly promised to take
no notice. I have sometimes fancied he
behaved as if he had a hold upon her, and I
have felt very uneasy at the thought of what
he might attempt to do after my death, and
I beo that you will watch over her, and
see that she comes to no harm. You know
her and will understand my fear."

Live as though the man did not
exist, I will see that she comes to no
harm."

*her goodness makes it harder for me
to die," went on Cuthbert; 'but even at
that price I would not have been without
it."

Dornford stayed late that evening.
Mar via was out ; Cuthbert liked her to

accept a great many invitations. It gave
him pleasure to see lier dressed before
leaving home, and her return with stories
of the people she had met, was a source of
the purest enjoyment to him. About
eleven o'clock they heard the house-door
open to admit her, and the frou-frou of
her gown as she came upstairs and along
the landing.

She was as usual richly dressed, with a
costly fur Avrap over her shoulders, which
she threw off as she entered the room.
She smiled as she met Cuthbert's eyes fixed
eagerly upon her face ; and coming to the
bedside, she took his outstretched hand,
and stooped down to kiss him. Then she
gave her hand to Dornforcl, and said, 

I shall have to reprimand you, if you
let Cuthbert stay awake so late."

'' It is not his fault. He wanted to go,
but I made him stay. I wanted him to

see you in that gown. Look, Dornford,
does it not become her ? I designed it."

**Mr. Dornford can't see unless I
parade myself before him," she said coming
into the middle of the room, and turning
slowly round and round that he might see
her from every point of view.

*' Am I not fine ? " she asked.

*' The dress and you were made for one
another," pronounced Oliver.

'' jow, are you satisfied ? " turning to
her husband, '' and may I sit down ; I am
tired."

Sit here," patting the bedclothes, and
she seated herself at the place he pointed
out.

'' What was it like ? Tell us all about
it," he said, when he had drawn off her
gloves and possessed himself of her
hand.

She began to tell, and the servant

came in with the coffee which Mrs.
Fleming always took when she came home
in the evening. Dornford poured it out,
and Martha remained seated on the bed,
leaning against the foot of it, and so facing
Cuthbert.

' Let me give you some more?" said
Dornford, when he took her empty cup.

'' No, thank you ; but help yourself."

"To be quite truthful," he said, ''I
have, with my usual recklessness, used all
the cream, and I was fearing lest you
should say ' Yes ' and discover my extravagance.
I know what a careful housewife
you are."

' My carefulness shows itself in always
having abundant supplies of everything.
Ring the bell ; don't be seared, there's
more in the skill."

What does that mean ? " asked
Cuthbert.

' It is Irish. Maurice Wingfield used
to sap it, when he treated me to coffee at
any of the gardens round Dresden."

Was Maurice Wingfield Irish ? "

'' Certainly ; to the whites of his eyes,
the tips of his fingers ; what you like."

You can't say to the tip of his
tongue," interposed Oliver. '' I don't
believe lie had any brogue."

'' Oh ! Didn't lie say, ' Will I do this ? '
I wdsli you saw Killarney,' and many
other little tidings. Saying, ' I wish you.
saw ' any place is a trick of speech which
I have noticed you have in common with
him."

"You will accuse me of behoof Irish
next."

"You may be sure," she replied smiling,
that I shall never accuse you of anything
wrongfully."

He rose to go, and having said goodnight

to Cuthbert, left the room with
Marjla. She saw him off from the house
door with the words, 

Do not forget to corne tomorrow."
Over walked slowly home, and as he
walked he mused, 

Which is the greater simpleton, I
wonder? Maurice Wingfield or Oliver
Dornford ? And yet when that poor
fellow talks in that way about leaving
her in my care, I feel the greatest
hypocrite in the world. I can't look him
in the face. It is too late now, but I wish
she had trusted him. She is too fond of
amusing herself with people ; when he
asked questions about her life, I suppose
she could not resist the temptation to
play with him, to rouse his curiosity and
not satisfy it. It is a dangerous habit, a
very dangerous habit, but I suppose she
can't help it; it is her nature. She is full

of faults and all the sweeter for them.
How beautiful she is ! How beautiful
she looked to-night ! She is never more
lovely than when she is ministering to him,
humouring him, and giving him pleasure.
He worships her, and I don't wonder at
it. So do I worship her, and with not
half the reason he has. At the door tonight,
I could have  no, I could not ! I
swear I will do nothing she could not tell
him before he goes. After that it will bea
fair fight between Maurice Wingfield
and Oliver Dornford, and I shall be
curious to see which will win. Will she
fall a victim to ' auld lang syne,' or the
new friendship ? She shall tell me ! I
will make her tell me. As for that fellow
Knox  the column, as she calls him  I
will make it in mj way to find out more
about him. I have never liked him. I
don't know who he is, nor what he is doing
VOL. III. H

here. He is desperately in love, that is
the only straightforward thing about him,
and she is amusing herself at his expense,
that is equally plain ; but I do not know
if he is a safe plaything. I wonder if I
could persuade her to tell me about him.
I don't feel sure that I know what her real
opinion of him is. I am lost in wonder,
Wingfield," he went on, after he had
walked a few hundred yards in silence, 
*' I am lost in wonder when I remember
that you left her, left that creature, and
went money-grubbing to 'New Zealand, and
all your dreams of her, all your imaginings
of her beauty, were no more than the
faintest shadow, the merest suggestion of
the reality. She was a girl then, she is
a woman now, and you were a boy then,
in spite of your one and twenty years, and
you had Exaggerated notions upon every
subject. So off you went and left her,

and you've stayed so long, jon have lost
all claim to lier, and when the time comes,
you will have to win her all over ao-ain
If she does not recognize that the boy
has grown into a man, your chance is
small, and if she persists in seeing only
the boy she knew and married long ao-o,
your chance is none."

H 2

CHAPTER YI.

Yet, oft indeed,
Shall thou go nigh to think thyself divine,
For love of what thou deepest to be thine,
For love of what thou greatest cannot die."

The Flemings did not leave Rilford this
last summer of Cutlibert's life; he was
not fit to take a journey. Day by day, his
strength grew less, and the end perceptibly
nearer. On this particular day he felt
better, and had sent his wife and Dartford
out for change of air. He had asked
for the railway-guide and, after hunting
through its pages, had found a country
place, distant from Milford about half an
hour's journey by rail, and to which
he had peremptorily ordered them to

repair by the earliest train they could
catch.

He might have ordered in vain, but for
the fact that they were not at present his
only companions ; one of his sisters had
arrived a few days before, and announced
that it was her intention to pay them a
visit of some length. Taking advantage
of her presence, Cuthbert had insisted
upon Mary la and Dornford enjoying a
short holiday, though he did not for a
moment attempt to deny that he very
much preferred their society to that of his
sister, Mrs. Venison.

Mrs. Denison was Cuthbert's eldest
sister, and about ten years older than himself.
She was the wife of a church dignitary,
and very positive and dogmatic in
her assertions as was, indeed, only natural;
for she was the great lady of the neighbourhood
in which she lived, and accustomed

to be looked up to as an authority
on all subjects, and to have her utterances
treated with a proper amount of respect.
She knew everything, lie was always right,
she did all things in the best and most
thorough way. She had for a long time
distrusted Martha's method of nursing her
husband, and had now come to personally
superintend his end ; and to see that, to
use her own expression,' ' he died like a
Christian."

She sat now by the bedside, with a large
piece of ecclesiastical fancy work in her
hands, and talked incessantly.

''I was rather surprised that Martha
cared to go away for the whole afternoon
with a stranger."

Dornford is not a stranger ; he is my
greatest friend."

'' Still, in her position, she cannot be too
careful. If any of her friends were to see

lier this afternoon alone with him, the
might spread very unpleasant reports."

From one's friends one could not, of
course, expect any reports but unpleasant
ones ; so we will hope she may meet no
one worse than an enemy. I dare say an
enemy would guess at once, that it was
with my consent and approval they were
spending the afternoon together."

*' You are very uncomfortable to talk
to, Cuthbert, and, in reality, you know as
well as I do, that she ought to be very
careful."

Poor Martha ! She has many faults,
and one or two odd, uncommon virtues,
but I fear she counts carefulness among
neither."

See, Cuthbert," said the lady, laying
down her work, '' since we are alone, I
should like for once to speak my mind
openly to you. Have I your consent ? "

Certainly," replied lier brother, making
a virtue of necessity.

'' Well, then, I will tell you first that
I do not at all approve of the way in*
which Mary la is treating you."

'' What on earth do you mean ? You
speak as if she were some monster. How,
in the name of fortune, would you have
her treat me ? AYhat is there that she
could do for me, which she does not do ? "

Don't get so excited, Cuthbert. I am
always afraid of saying anything, because
you get into such a heated, unreasonable
state."

I should like to know what man would
not get excited when he heard his wife
abused in such a way."

I never dreamed of abusing any one.
I only wish to tell you what I think."

You appear to think some very extraordinary
things ; however, pray go on."

You interrupt me at every word, I
have no chance of speaking."

I won't interrupt any more, if you will
say no more against Martha."

'' It is about her I wish to speak, and it
appears I must either offend you or be
silent."

'' Say what you like, I will not be
offended," he replied, composing himself
to listen with a grimace.

I do not like the light way she has of
treating your illness, and trying to take
your thoughts away from what we all
know the end must be, dear Cuthbert.
It has been a great trouble to me ever
since I came here to see how little both
you and she seem to care about the awful
future."

' What is the use of caring about something
of which you are and must remain
in the most profound ignorance."

Ohj liusli ! you pain me terribly \lleIl
you talk like that. The clear Canon is
perfectly right when he speaks of the
fearful increase of Atheism at the present
day. I do pray that he may have strength
given him to finish his ' History of Infidelity.'
"

'' Perhaps I could assist him with a
suggestion or two."

'rit is a most admirable work, and I
wish you might live to read it. Oh, my
dear Cuthbert, do be guided by me, and
send for a priest as soon as possible !
Every moment is of importance."

I am really sorry to see you in such a
frame of mind, Gertrude. I do not think
this is the time to forget how we have
differed on these points all our lives.
What could a priest do for me, except
depress me horribly and shorten my
wretched little term of life by worrying

about tidings that he understands no better
than I do myself ? Martha never lets me
think about anything of the kind ; she
does me far more good than all the priests
in the world."

'' Believe me, you will be happier if you
follow my advice."

'' You are quite mistaken. I want no
one but Martha, and the more I have of her
the better I like it."

She is not a fit person to be with you
at this crisis. Her influence is not for
good."

Take care what you are saying. I am
not strong enough to control myself, and
I ask you not to go too far. Understand,
once for all, that Martha is my
wife, and whoever slanders her, slanders
me. She can do no wronsr to me. She

o

has given up everything for my sake,
and I forbid you to speak her name

again, if you cannot do it with proper
respect'*

Mrs. Denison said nothing, and Cutlibert
went on, 

*' The only evil of Mary la's goodness is,
that it makes it so desperately hard to
leave her. My only consolation is that
she will be in good hands when I am
gone."

In whose hands are you going to leave
her ? " asked the lady, in rather a small voice.

In Dornford's. I hope that, after my
death, they will get married."

'' Good gracious ! what a thing to say.
Besides, you forget that Martha has
married into our family, and she must not
marry again without consulting us and
gaining our consent."

She will have my consent, that is
enough."

But Mr. Dornford himself  what do

YOU know about him ? He seems pleasant
and a good friend to you ; but, after all,
he is a stranger. Who are his people ?
Where does he come from ? What means
has he ? "

None at all, I dare say. In fact, I
expect he is an impostor ; perhaps, after
all, he has a wife already, who is waiting
for him to go back to New Zealand."

*' How can you talk so lightly of such
a serious matter ? You ouo-ht to make
every inquiry, perhaps even employ a
detective. One hears of such terrible
impostures. Now what do you know about
him ? "

'nothing at all."

And you can calmly contemplate leaving
your own wife in the care of a man of
whom, by your own confession, you know
nothing ? "

No, I can't contemplate it calmly, but

I can contemplate it after my own fashion,
and that is enouoli."

I thought Mary la was too dear for you
to consent to her ever marrvinof assail."

"Did you?"

'' I don't really know what the Canon
will say to such a step. I scarcely like to
mention it to him."

"It will keep until I am dead."

There was a moment's silence, and then
Mrs. Denison said, 

I have a little pamphlet here, which I
think would interest you. The Canon
wrote it, and I should like to read it to
you."

You are very good, but just now I feel

as if I could sleep, so I think we will leave

it till another day."

* * *

Martha and Dornford spent the afternoon
chiefly in talk. Martha loved the

country, and hailed with almost a child's
pleasure this stray afternoon spent
amongst the trees and flowers. To Dartford
these hours were very precious, and
he found himself thinking of Wingfield,
and saying within himself, 

'' If you had not been a fool, she might
now have belonged to you, instead of to
that poor fellow out yonder, and Oliver
Dornford would never have been heard of."

When they reached their destination,
they left the station and wandered down
the steep, shady hill, which led into the
village. Here they paused, and Martha
asked, 

Where shall we go ? "

Nay," replied Dornford, " I cannot tell.
I will follow wherever you choose to lead."

*' That is like you to throw the responsibility
upon me. Cuthbert never did, he
always took things into his own hands ! "

'' You preferred that, I suppose ? "

It saved trouble."

Suppose I took you into my own
hands. Would that save any trouble, do
you think ?"

She smiled, saying, 

Ah, but you have not done so''

Do you mean to say  ? "

' I mean to say that, if we stand here
any longer, "we shall have the whole
population assembled to gaze at us. If
you won't choose a walk, I suggest that
we go by the side of this river ; it looks
pleasant under the trees."

They walked for some little distance in
silence, and then Dornford began to sing,
half under his breath, 

Know ye not that lovely river ?
Know ye not that smiling river ?
Whose gentle flood
Ey cliff and wood
With wilderin sound goes winding ever."

"That is an Irish song," said Martha;
*' Maurice used to sing it."

'' You remember more about Maurice
than I expected you would," said Dartford,
with a smile at the corners of his
mouth.

I was at a susceptible age when I
knew him."

'' Is that the only reason ? "

I cannot think of an other," she
replied, after a moment spent apparently
in grave deliberation over his words.

'' Did you feel no pain at parting with
an old friend?"

'' It was not an ordinary parting, and he
was not an ordinary old friend; circumstances
had arranged themselves in such a
way that I was glad when he went. You
know," she went on, as he said nothing,
*' that I never loved him."

"Never?"

VOL. HI. I

'' Not for a single moment. Even when
I expected lie was going to take me
from a house wliicli I was convinced had
ceased to be a home, I did not love him ;
and I was immensely relieved to find
that the marriage service was to be the
beginning and end of it all."

'sthat really true?"

'' Perfectly true. I told him so before
our marriage, but he gave me no chance
of telling him again after. I dare say
he would not believe me if I told him
now."

'' It would be a great grief to him. He
has been faithful all through these years,
his heart has not changed. He loved you
then, and he loves you now."

'' I have been equally faithful, my heart
has not changed either. I did not love
him then, and I do not love him now."

'' Whom do you not love ? "

Maurice," she replied, after a moment's
hesitation.

Their eyes met, and they smiled ; then
both began to laugh as they still looked
into one another's eyes. Mary la was the
first to turn her head away.

Let us speak about Fleming for a
moment," Dornford said. " Do you know
that he has asked me to take charge of
you after his death ? "

Indeed. Do you not feel a hypocrite
when he says those things to you ? "

*' I feel a perfect Judas. I wonder if
you know how he loves you. I wonder,
sometimes, how it is possible that his love
has not compelled yours in return."

How do you know that it has not ? "

'' I always understood you did not love
him, that you had refused him once for
that reason."

'' Really, did you believe that tale ? Is
I 2

it possible that you did not look below the
surface ? "

*' What do you mean ? "

Did it never occur to you that, after
refusing him in the summer, I wished I
had not done so, and was glad of the
opportunity of retrieving my mistake
later?"

*' Is that so indeed?"

'Why should it not be so? Do you
think Cuthbert is not a man whom any
woman might be proud to love, and whose
love she might be proud to possess ? "

"Good God," he said, "is it so ? I
never thought of that."

They walked on in silence for some
distance, until they reached a field in
which a large log of wood lying under a
tree made an irresistible temptation to sit
down. Dornford halted in front of it,
saying,

Let us sit down, it is pleasant than
walking, and I want to talk to you."

Don't scold me," she said ; '' I could
not help it."

He appeared to know to what she
referred, for he half smiled as he
replied, 

All the scolding in the world would
not undo it, even if I felt tempted to apply
them."

They sat down in the shade, and she
waited for him to begin. At last he
said, 

It is about Knox I want to speak. I
have been thinking about him a good deal
lately, and watching both you and him. I
wish you would tell me more about the
man and what your real feelings about him
are."

'' I don't think there is much more to
tell you than you already know."

Yes, there is. You have told me how
you came to know him in the first place,
and how he considers you in his power; but
you said nothing about your own feelings
for him, or why you allow him to come so
much to your house."

She was silent, not looking at him, her
face turned slightly aside.

Won't you tell me ? "

Why do you ask ? Is it not better tolet
sleeping dogs lie ? '*

I might help you more if I knew. But
I had better explain. I am very anxious
indeed that you should tell me, but if
you would really rather not, I will not
press it."

I should like to tell you," she began
with some hesitation, " and yet I shrink
from it. I feel very strongly about him,
and I had made up my mind to bear what
I have to bear alone. You could help me

very mncli, but I don't know if I ought
to let you."

*' You must not feel like that. Remember
I have a right to help you, and you
have a right to claim my help'*

'' No, we have forfeited it, and what I
suffer from that man is mj own fault."

*' I dare say, but I want to help you
to bear your own fault, so to speak."

Do not tempt me. I am so fond of
being helped. I ought to bear this
alone."

*you shall not bear it alone. Sow,
tell me what you feel about him."

I hate him," she answered in a low
voice.

*why?"

'' He is the constant, living reminder of
my own weakness and folly. He has
forced me to do wrong. I suppose, strictly
speaking, one human being cannot force

another to do wrong, and that might be
true, if two human beings stood quite
alone whose actions had no reference to
any one but themselves, of course two such
people never existed; and never could exist.
After that marriage, I determined that
Mr. Richardson should never know of it ;
at first it was merely my own feeling which
swayed me, but I presently saw that he
ought never to know, because his health
was in such a state that such knowledge
coming to him suddenly would have
killed him. The only person who could
have told him was Mr. Knox, and to
prevent it, I did deliberately behave to
him in such a way that he asked me to
marry him, with the full expectation that
1 should consent. It was my only way of
getting him out of the place, but it was a
hateful and a degrading way. When I had
done it, I was lowered in his eyes, lowered

in my own, and in Mr. Pticharclson's. I
told him what I lead done, I could not hide
that from him, and I know that he was
grieved and disappointed. The feeling
between us was never quite the same
afterwards, and that was the price I had
to pay to keep from him a lesser fault, but
one which I could not confess after having
kept silence all those years. It has been
the same again. I do not know what made
me hide it from Cuthbert ; I might have
told him, but I did not, and now I cannot.
If I cannot tell him, no one else shall,
and to ensure that man's keeping silence,
I have to make him welcome at my house.
I see him almost every day, and every time
I see him I remember, and every time
I hate him more. He is like the embodiment
of my folly, sin, whatever you choose
to call it. Now you knows the feeling I
have for him."

Dornford did not speak at once, then ho
said, 

"And his feelings ? "

'' He is so incomprehensibly blind that,
though he knows all this, he imagines that
every day strengthens the chain which
binds ns together, and that when Cuthbert
is dead  "

She stopped suddenly, and after a
moment went on, 

I hate him so, that sometimes I am
afraid I shall tell him."

Oh, no, you must not do that," cried
Dornford vehemently.

I know I must not, but I cannot
always feel sure that I shall not. Everyday
the irritation grows, and the temptation
is stronger ; sometimes I feel that I
cannot resist it any longer, and I have to
leave the room suddenly to save myself.
That is weakness, and I hate myself for it.

If I only stood alone, if this blow would
only fall on me alone, I should be happy."

'' Have sou no comfort ? "

Yes, it is rather dreary, and would
probably be comfort to no one but myself;
but there is this comfort, that he is under
the impression that by keeping silence he
is winning my favour, and that I would
rather die than let Cuthbert hear his tale.
So I would. Cuthbert shall never hear it
from him, but if I only might tell it him
myseK!''

What do you mean ? "

"I onofht to have told him before our
marriage, and I did not. I was wrong,
and I would give the world to repair my
wrong. It is torture to me to keep this
secret from him ; if he knew it, a greater
weight would be lifted from my heart than
I once thought any human heart could
bear. It would be heaven to me to know

before lie died that we lead no secrets, that
all was clear between us ; but I shall never
know that joy. It is too late now, I
cannot tell him ; like Mr. Richardson, the
shock would kill him. You agree with me,
I think ? "

Yes, you cannot tell him. My poor
child, your burden is very great."

I must bear it alone, too ; no one can
help me in this. I am thrown back upon
myself at last. It is good for me, I daresay.
I shall be stronger in the end, but
just now it is difficult to see nothing but
the end."

It would be a relief to you to tell him
even now."

Do not tempt me. You know my
weakness is to cast half my load upon
any one's shoulders. If I myself might
tell Cuthbert the truth, it would lighten
my load immensely. I wonder how much

it would add to his ? It is far more
humiliating and a far greater trouble to
be treated as better, than as worse, than
you really are. You will see that I may
not have this relief."

*' Yes, you are right. Keep strong. It
is an awful weight you have to bear, but
it is right that you should bear it. My
heart aches for you, but I feel proud of
you for not wishing to shirk your share of
the world's trouble. Most of us bring
our troubles upon ourselves, but they cannot
harm us if we bear them bravely, and
do not try to shirk the consequences. I
have seen that you had some trouble, and
I wanted to know what it was. It is
telling on your health and strength.
Your face is thinner and paler than it
was ; but, believe me, you will be stronger
and better when it is over. That is all
the comfort I have."

'' I ought not to have told yoii, I think,
but you made me."

That is as it should be. I like to
think you tell me everything."

She did not speak for some little time.
She sat with her face turned from Dartford.
Perhaps she did not wish him to
see the look it wore, of deep sorrow
mingled with repulsion and scorn. At
last she rose abruptly, saying, 

'' It is your fault that I have told you
all this. I had intended to keep it to myself,
for I am not fond of talking about
my mental experiences. What you Irnve
heard cannot have raised me in your estimation,
but you have only yourself to thank
for your disillusionment."

She spoke almost harshly. Only deep
suffering could have effected such a change
in her voice and manner. Dornford knew
her too well to attempt any contradiction

of what she said. He rose too, and stood,
looking at her as he quoted, 

Through suffering and sorrow thou hast pass'cl,
To show us what a woman true may be ;
They have not taken sympathy from thee,
Xor made thee any other than thou wast."

She must have heard, for she turned to
him again, saying, 

'' Let us go back to the station ; I am
tired."

She glanced at him as she spoke, and

he saw that her eyes were swimming

in tears. He said nothing ; but placed

her hand on his arm as they moved away

together.

#   

Meanwhile Stephen was arranging a
plan which was to have for its result the
utter confusion of what he supposed to be
Martha's schemes for the future. He

wished to bring Maurice Wingfield back
to England ; not while Fleming was alive,
let the poor fellow die in peace ; but as
soon after his death as was possible. The
difficulty lay in communicating with Wing-field,
about whom he knew no more than
that he was in New Zealand. He must
make ifc his business to procure his
address; if he were cautious and diplomatic
he might get it from Dornford
himself. He would watch for an opportunity
.

It was not long before an opportunity
presented itself. He found himself one
day alone with Dornford in the reading-room
of the Reference Library. He had
come to study geography, and Dornford
to verify a quotation for Martha.

He greeted Dornford, and got into conversation
with him, first on matters in
general, and then, by gradually narrowing

this questions, to geography, and even to
the geography of New Zealand. He was
rejoiced to find that his adversary walked
straight into the trap set for him. He
appeared to have no suspicions at all, but
answered all Stephen's questions with
perfect freedom. Mr. Knox entered into
details, and spoke of an unsatisfactory
young cousin whom he wished to send to
the colonies, but he was not sure whether
Australia or New Zealand would be the
fittest for his purpose. Dornford gave
him an immense amount of useful information
about both countries, and on Mr.
Knox's suggestion that perhaps his friend
"Wingfield, being still in the country, might
be possessed of even more reliable information,
Dornford thought it very probable,
and at last furnished him, not only with
Wingfield' s address, but with a short note
of introduction from himself. Then he
Viii. III. K

went away, leaving Stephen in a secret
ecstacy of delight and triumph. He read
the note and address at least a dozen
times, gazed at them joyfully, and at last
put the paper away in his pocket-book
with a feeling that it contained what was
more precious to him than thousands of
gold and silver.

Dornford walked home, thinking as he
went, " What is he up to now, I wonder ?
I suppose he is going to write to New
Zealand. I hope he may be repaid for
his trouble. Martha is right in seeing a
humorous side ; there certainly is one,
though I am afraid the gravity of the case
is equally great."

CHAPTER Iii.

I am dying . . . dying ; only
I here importune death aAvliile, until
Of many thousand kisses the poor last
I lay upon thy lips."

CuTHBERT kept up bravely ; as long as it
had been possible, he rose every clay and
left his room : even when that could no
longer be allowed, he refused to yield altogether.
To the last he insisted upon Martha
leaving him in the evening ; he said it was
a change and interest for him. He liked to
see her go out. While she was away he
amused himself with imagining what she
was doing, and as the time drew near
when she might be expected home again,
the anticipation of her coming and well
2

coming her when she did come, made up
for the time she had spent away from him.
He liked to see her dressed for the evening.
She had a natural love of fine clothes, in
which both Cuthbert and Dornford encouraged
her, by criticising and admiring
her things, always asking to see her new
dresses, and taking a serious share in her
consideration of them. Up to the last
they had animated discussions about what
she wore, and a stranger coming into the
dying man's room would have been
amazed to find it strewn with his wife's
dresses and mantles and bonnets.

But the time did come when Cuthbert
gave in. Martha read out to him one
morning a certain invitation she had got,
and, as usual, he said, 

'' You will go, of course you will go.
What shall you wear ? "

Her quick ear caught a difference in

his tone, and she knew that lie was
speaking with an effort.

'' Xo," she replied, "I shall not go. I
do not care about these things ; they are
not amusing, there would he nothing to
tell afterwards."

The thing does not exist about which
you would find nothing amusing to tell.
You must go, I wish it. I shall not be
happy if you stay at home."

Against her will she promised to go,
and at the appointed time dressed in the
gown they had chosen, and went to show
herself to Cuthbert. The dress Alas white,
and she looked radiantly beautiful.
Oliver was present, and he joined in admiration
of her until her cab was announced ;
and then, when she bent down to kiss
Cuthbert, he seized her hands, saying, 

*' No, you must not go ; I cannot do
without you."

Lie pressed his hand, and asked Oliver
to ring the bell. When the maid came
she said, 

Send the cab away, I shall not go out
to-night."

Then she sat down on the bed where
Cuthbert liked best to see her, and taking
off her gloves, said, 

'' Shall I change my dress ?"

'' No ; for once Dornford and I will
have the pleasure of seeing your fine
clothes. I think that, whenever you stay
at home now, I should like you to put on all
your grandest gowns, one after the other.
We wall admire you as much as your
outside adorers."

' I don't think all my outside adorers,
as you call them, put together, would ever
admire me as much as you do," she
answered, bending up his fingers.

He was in a very softened mood that

evening. He stretched his arms out of
bed, put them round her waist and drew
her down beside him.

I don't know Avhat T shall do when
it comes to leaving you," he said.

'' We will not think of it till it comes ;
let it come like a thief in the night." 

'' I think I shall try to take you with
me ; would you come ? "

She had changed her position a little,
and as she now leaned, could see Dartford's
face plainly. She looked at him
and not at Cuthbert, as she answered, 

eyes."

He drew her closer to him, saying, 

"I felt sure of it."

There was a short silence, during which
she resumed her former position; but
Cuthbert still kept her hand, which he
stroked softly, w-hile he quoted from an
old German song, 

Ir Hand' siiid lind wie Ilermelein
Und weiss wie Elfenbein,
Daring die Adorn beau ;
Got griiss rich, Jungfrau."

After that she began to talk so as to
amuse lira. He had begged her once not
to put on a melancholy countenance,
however ill he might be; and she had
promised, and was keeping her promise
bravely. However ill and weak he was,
however grave she might look outside the
sick-room, in his presence she was always
bright, always ready to amuse him, and
to keep his thoughts from himself. Sometimes
it cost her a very great effort ; on
this same night she found it almost impossible
to be like herself. Cuthbert looked
so wretchedly ill, and she knew he must feel
weak, or he would not have yielded to his
wish to keep her at home ; her heart ached
as she looked at him, but she kept up wonderfully

and Dornford helped her as much
as he could. Cuthbert improved visibly,
and at last began to jest about his death
as he sometimes did.

It will seem very extraordinary in
heaven without you ; not the kind of place
I had imagined at all."

How do you know that you will go to
heaven ? You would not be happy there ;
you are not fit for such a place, you area
wicked man who has to have his chest
covered up every minute, as if he were a
baby, and who will put his arms out of bed
and let his sleeves get unbuttoned, so that
all the winds in the world may blow upon
his poor thin arms. If you did one of
those things, you would not be eligible for
heaven, and you do them all."

'' Then I have no chance of meeting you
again ? "

None at all. When we part here, we

shall jDarfc for ever, like a man and his wife
who go into the workhouse."

'' What do you know about workhouses,
I wonder."

*' More than you think, perhaps ; and
what I don't know, I can invent, like Mrs.
Torkington."

'' Ah, Mrs. Torkington. It is a longtime
since she has been here."

'' She was here yesterday, but I would
not let her see you. She would have
talked you to death."

'* Let her in the next time she comes, I
should like to see her; she would amusement."

Very well. She told me, with every
appearance of pure and sincere pleasure,
that she thinks I am beginning to look old."

"She is insolent!" cried Cuthbert
angrily " There would be some sense in
her beginning to look old ; she was past her
prime ages ago. Atkinson told me the

other day that he can remember Mrs.
Torkington as a grown-up young lady
before his daughter was born, and she is
eight-and-twenty."

'' Oh, hush," said Martha in a fit of
laughter, 'that is a libel; I should think
Mrs. Torkington has been a grown-up young
lady all her life and will be till she dies."

The idea pleased Cuthbert so much that
he laughed till he was tired, and Martha
said he must go to sleep. She left the
room with Oliver ; her last words were a
jest, which she ;turned back at the door to
deliver, and Cuthbert heard her laugh outside.
But, as soon as she was out of
earshot, her face changed aud. she stood
still, shaking all over and leaning for
support against the banisters.

'' You are tired," said Oliver ; '' take my
arm."

Oh," she said without heeding his

request, " he does not know how cruel
he is."

"It is an awful strain upon you. Come
downstairs and have a glass of wine or
you will be ill."

'No, I will not be ill," she said, taking
a few steps forward. But lie could not
walk; she paused again, saying with a
laugh and a face as white as her
dress, 

'* It is absurd, but I dare not walk
downstairs."

"Let nie help you," he said, and he
slipped his arm round her waist, and told
her to give him her hand.

She obeyed, and they went down
together ; he upholding her and she leaning
against the strong, trustworthy support
of his arm. When they reached the diningroom,
Dornford made her lie down upon
the couch, and then, the fire being low.

he went on this knees to try to coax it into
a flame again. Marj'la lay still for a few
minutes, and then began to laugh gently,
saying,

If you only knew how absurd you look
doing that! "

'' You have no reverence for a great
mind which, under stress of circumstances,
descends to little things. And, see, I have
succeeded ; there is a blaze at last. Now
I am going to get your wine."

He came back from the sideboard
with a glass of wine and some biscuits.

Now take these, or I shall be angry
with you."

'* That would be such a new experience,
you tempt me to try it."

Do you suppose that I never have been
angry with you? "

'' Have you ? When was that ? "

"The last time was to-nio-ht."

-' What did I do?"

How could you tell Fleming you were
willing to die with him ? You know it was
not true."

It was true then. When he looks and
speaks like that, I feel as if I would do
anything for him."

I believe you do love him after
all."

'why should I not? My poor Cuthbert."


She spoke the last words as if to herself.


Her face was very tender and beautiful,
and her deep soft eyes gazed dreamily
before her. Dornford looked at her
fixedly with an expression at once pitying
and puzzled.

Before he spoke, she roused herself to
say,

'' If only I can keep up till the end.

Sometimes I feel so afraid I shall breakdown."


'you will keep) up," he said confidently,
'' you are very brave, and I will help you."

You are very good. How glad I am
you came. I can't tell what I should
have done without you, and I am very
grateful."

Is there no one to whom you can give
more than gratitude ? "

You forget Cuthbert," she answered
gravely.

Just then a servant came in. A mistake
had been made in some medicine which
had been sent, and it was already late.
Oliver waited some time, but the discussion
seemed endless, and at last he
reluctantly took his departure, with
Martha's last words ringing in his ears,
for him to inter j)ret as he chose.

As soon as he had gone, Mrs. Fleming

brought the discussion about the medicine
to an abrupt close, and dismissed the
servant with an injunction to go to bed.
Left alone, she sat in her white silk gown,
thinking, with a shadow on her beautiful
face. Mrs. Torkington was right, it was
thinner, and perhaps older, but at the
same time even more spiritual and beautiful
than before. Between these two men,
her heart was strangely torn. Cuthbert
with his weakness and suffering, his
tender clinging affection, roused all the
best part of her woman's nature. But
when she thought of Oliver her whole
heart went out to him with a bound, and
yet she rose suddenly as though in answer
to some inward spur, and went upstairs.
She went first into her own room, and
after standing for a time, sunk in thought,
she took ose her dress, and put on a soft
wrapper in which she could move noiselessly

about. Then lie opened the floor
of communication between her room and
Cuthbert's and went in, stepping softly,
and quickly, till she stood by the bed-side.
He was asleep, and she stood for sometime
looking down upon him with a wistful
expression on her face. Long she
stood there, and through her mind passed
all the incidents of their meeting and
friendship. Sadder, and still more sad her
face grew, her breast rose and fell with a
long sigh, and sinking on to her knees, she
bent her head upon the bed and wept
bitterly.

Cuthbert slept on. Perhaps, had he
been awake, his wife's tears, shed for his
sake, would have been the sweetest balm
to his soul. But he never knew of them.
He had a secret fear, that in reality his
death would not affect Martha very deeply,
and his entreaties that she would always

VOL. III. L

be gay, were so many safeguards against
his own feelings. When she talked and
laughed, he told himself it was to please
him, because he had bid her do so, and if
he had seen her tears flowing for him in
the privacy of the night, if he had felt her
lips resting on his, and seen the look on
her face as she stood at the door on her
way back to her own room, he might have
been satisfied.

CHAPTER YIIL

I will be even with thee, doubt it not."

Stephen sent this letter to Maurice Wing-field,
and then waited impatiently for the
answer. Though he knew that at least
three months must pass before it could
come, he waited for it in an eager,
unsettled frame of mind. All the time he
went more frequently than ever to Martha's
house ; he felt that the term of his intercourse
with her was drawing to a close,
and he determined to enjoy it to the very
end.

He wanted, too, to watch his prey.

He spied every movement of the woman

whom he loved and hated together, and

who went her way in tranquil unconscious

2

ness of what was preparing for her. He
was sure lie lead no suspicion. Her
manner to him had never changed ia the
slightest, and he considered that the very
fact of his having applied openly to Dartford
for Wingfield's address would have
thrown them completely off their guard.
He congratulated himself upon his cleverness,
and in secret rubbed his hands in
triumph. He felt a certain contempt for both
Cuthbert and Maurice in that they should
allow themselves to be so easily duped.
Sometimes he felt a pang of uneasiness.
From all appearances Wingfield must be an
unsuspicious and indifferent man, otherwise
he would never have left Martha for
so long, and trusted so implicitly in his
friend. Suppose he did not come, but
treated Stephen's letter for what it was
worth, and persisted in pinning his faith
to a faithless friend, and a worse than

faithless wife ? He turned hot and cold at
the thought, and felt almost mad with fear
and suspense and anxiety. He had not
been idle. He had been again to Hay-garth,
approaching it from another direction
than Stanedale, and made sear chin or
inquiries about Maurice Wingfield. He
had learnt nothing, or next to nothing.
The inn at which he had stayed had
changed hands, few people remembered
the young man at all, and when at last he
met with some one who cherished a distinct
recollection both of Mr. Mansfield and his
wedding, he was grievously disappointed.
For the worthy farmer attached no
importance to it at all, and even when
Stephen tried to rouse his moral sense by
telling him that Mrs. Wingfield had taken
advantage of her husband's prolonged
absence in a far country to marry again,
the man merely observed stolidly, 

Ay ; well it serves him rest, he
shouldn't a' gone and left her''

One thing he effected, and only one, by
means of bribes, threats, and persuasions,
of which he was surprised so many were
needed in a country where morality and
honesty seemed at so low an ebb ; he
prevailed upon the clerk to abstract and
give up to him the original marriage lines
of Martha and Maurice. With these in
his possession he returned to Rilford
strengthened, if not consoled, and with
the philosophic reflection that this little
expedition had helped to ' put on " the
time.

But the time went on, and he did not
hear. The return mail from New Zealand
came in, and brought no letter with it.
He was horribly puzzled and disconcerted.
Had Wingfield sailed at once, he would
have come in this vessel ; had he been

unable to come, he would surely have
written. Perhaps he had written directly
to either Martha or Dornford ; he decided
that he would go and try to find out. It
happened to be the afternoon when
Martha was at home  her evening she
had given up some time before  and he
could scarcely wait for an hour when he
might with propriety present himself at
her door.

He found her alone. She was not in
exactly high spirits, but she smiled frequently,
and in her eyes danced the evil
spirit which he knew, and in his heart
slightly feared.

He stayed some time, but could discover
nothing in her manner which gave any
support to the theory that she had
heard from Springfield; and as that was
the subject which exclusively occupied his
thoughts, he left soon after the arrival of

some other people. Martha, as lie shook
hands with him, said, 

'' You look miserable. One would say
you had had some crushing disappointment."

He went away with her words in his
mind, and wondering if she had any idea
of what had happened to him. He
could remember nothing which gave
any countenance to such an idea,
unless the trifling fact that he had heard
her say to one of her friends, 

'' By the way, the mail is in from Xew
Zealand. Have you good news from your
Sister r

He went home to deliberate upon what
he should do. He was not a man to act
upon impulse unless under some great
excitement ; he usually weighed his plans
well before committing himself to action,
and he decided at last to wait for the next
mail before doiucr anvthino further.

The next mail came, but brought him
nothing. Maurice Wingfielcl made not
the slightest sign in answer to Stephen's
letter. Then he formed his resolve. He
would see Marjla, and according as things
turned out, give her a last warning or a
parting threat.

He went at the risk of not finding herat
home. It was not her afternoon, and
he had sent her no warning of his comines
was in, but he had to wait some time
before she came. At last she entered the
room and came forward slowly and
rather languidly, with pale face and
dimmed eyes. He saw directly that at
last the advantage was on his side. In
truth, Martha was far from well. For a
week Cuthbert had been o-iving;- her terrible
anxiety, and the previous night was the
third which she had spent watching by
his bedside. She had Dornford, but he

could not do everything, and all through
this past week Cuthbert had been beset
with a nervous dread of losing her out of
his sight, so that she could not take proper
rest during the day. By the time
Stephen called she was thoroughly exhausted;
fortunately he did not know
how completely at his mercy she lay.
She came slowly along the room, and
sank into a chair, saying, 

I did not expect you to-day."

'' I wanted to see you alone, so purposely
did not come on your afternoon."

Do not keep me longer than you
need. I wisli to go back to my husband."

I hear he is very ill."

'* He is exceedingly ill."

'' He will scarcely live much longer ? "

No, the end is near."

She was not in her usual mood. Perhaps
she was too tired to bandy words.

She spoke very concisely ; no doubt lie
wished to shorten the interview.

' You must feel glad," he said.

She did not seem to seize the exact
meanings of his words, for she answered
rather absently, 

For him I shall feel glad. He has
suffered terribly ; I cannot help feeling it
will be a release."

But for yourself, do you not feel glad ? "

She had a dim idea that he was trying
to win some admission from her, but she
was too tired to do battle with him, and
merely said, 

Please say all you mean at once. I
told you before that I wish to go back to
my husband."

''Oh!" he replied rather hotly, ''do
not suppose I am blind ; I have seen your
intention all alone."

'* You were clearer-sighted than I. I

have been very undecided, and have not yet
made up my mind what to do in the future'*

If you have any thoughts of marrying
Dornford, I will tell you at once that I
shall not allow it."

I think you forget yourself in mentioning
Mr. Dornford's name at all. At the
same time, may I ask what voice you
have in the matter ? "

Her words infuriated him. She knew
that she was playing with edged tools, that
she was irritating Stephen beyond endurance,
and that she herself was not as
cool and collected as she ouo-ht to have
been on such an occasion. But she felt
too weary to make the necessary effort to
be prudent and circumspect."

I have this voice," he replied; "that
I can 23ut a stop to the whole affair whenever
I like. I suppose you would not
marry Dornford in the face of abundant

proof of your marriage with Maurice
Wingfield? You seem to forget that I
have such proof."

True," she said, with a sudden
unmistakable smile, ' so you have ; I had
forgotten it."

He was silent for a moment, and then
said, 

'' Do you remember a conversation
we had when I came back to England ?
I promised to keep the secret of your first
marriage on certain conditions. I have
kept the secret as long as it suits my
convenience to comply with those conditions.
What has been my reward ? "

What reward did you want or expect
beyond the liberty of coming to my house
whenever you chose ? "

Permission to visit you was all you
intended to give me ? "

Exactly. Was it not enough ?"

'' No, ifc is not enough ; by heaven it is
not enough, and I insist on having
more."

"You have been in and out of my
house as if it had been your own for
eighteen months. If you want more you
set a high price on the trifling service
you have done me."

You call it a trifling service ! I do
not well see how I could have done
more. I held your reputation in my hand."

Do you really believe that ? "

I know it. I could have overthrown
your position with a word, and I could doit
yet. Do you know that I have been to
Haygarth again and brought away this
time, not a mere copy of your marriage
lines, but the document itself. Take care
that I ai not tempted to make use of
it."

'' What use could you make of it ? "

That is a strange question. If I were
to answer it by deeds instead of words, you
might repent of having asked it."

' How would you answer it by deeds?"

' I might do many things, as you once
said to me. I might tell people. Do not
suppose they would not believe me; you
are not without enemies here, and remember
I have proof  proof of what I say."

'* Yes, you might do that, and you are
quite right in believing that a great many
people would be glad of such a revelation.
If you think seriously of taking that step,
I should advise you to tell Mrs.
Torkington ; she would take all further
trouble off your hands."

'' Or I might do what you once suggested
for yourself. I might communicate with
Wingfield, and bring him over here."

A vivid flash of amusement passed over
her face as she said, 

That is a good plan, too, but low
would you do it ? "

You forget, or perlaaDS you do not
know, that some time ago Dornford himself
furnished me with Wingfield's address'*

How very, very imprudent of him," she
said solemnly, and then she began to
laugh; partly because she was overcome
with the absurdity of the thing, and partly
because she could not help herself. Her
laughter was half-hysterical.

"Why do you laugh?" he asked with
hot suspicion. "Do you mean that it was
not his real address ? "

There was a very droll look in her eyes
as she answered, 

One would say you had already written
and you feared that your letter had not
found him."

'that is the truth," he cried, carried
away by his passion. " I have written and

told him all about you and his false
friend. He knew the whole story long ago,
and his return is only a question of time.
The best thing you can do is to pray
that Fleming may die before Wingfield
comes."

I knew you had written ; I have seen
the letter. That day you called, the day
the mail came in from New Zealand; I saw
it then."

You saw it ! How did it get into your
hands?"

Mr. Dornford showed it me ; it came
back to him."

''Dornford showed it you! How did
he get it? How could it come back to
him? It was sent to Wingfield."

He stopped abruptly. She lay back in
her chair laughing in a way which carried
him back to long-past days at Stane-dale.


VOL. III. M

'' Did it never occur to you," lie said
when she could speak, '' that Oliver Dartford
and Maurice Wingfield were one and
the same man ?

' Oh, that letter ! " she went on before
he could speak, '' I shall never forget it.
Mr. Dornford told me you. had written,
and then your latter came back and we
read it together. He went into such fits
of laughter over it ; my only regret was
that Cuthbert could not enjoy it with
us."

By this time Stephen had found words.
His voice and manner were ominously
quiet.

Then all this time you have simply
been making a fool of me ! "

She was grave again now, and answered
serenely, 

' Fools and poets have this in common,
that they are born, not made."

It might be something in her words, or
something in the manner in which they
were said, but all at once his wrath blazed
up again.

"You shall repent this'* he said, ''I
swear you shall repent it. I suppose I
have furnished you both with unlimited
amusement ; we will see if it is not possible
to turn the tables. lie laughs best who
laughs last."

His face was working with passion, and
he strode up and dorn the room as if he
were in a cao-e. Then he sat down and
bent his head between his hands ; he could
not think, he felt as if he were going mad ;
words struggled for utterance and he
could not say them. His brain seemed
to rock, and everything swam before his
eyes. At last he rose abruptly, saying,
with a calmness which it cost him a
terrible effort to maintain, 
M 2

Do not suppose this will end here. I
grant that, so far, the advantage has been
on your side ; but the future is mine in a
sense of which you had not thought, and I
shall know how to make good use of it."

CHAPTER IX.

Meantime, laugh at his challenge."

Maeyla went back to Cutlibert's room ; it
was some distance from the room where
she had been sitting with Stephen, and so,
though on the same floor, no sound of her
laughter had reached her husband's ears.
He was asleep, and she at once told Dartford
of what had happened. He considered
it a much more serious matter than she
did.

Take care, for heaven's sake, take
care," he said when she had finished. " It
is impossible to tell what he may not do ;
lie has a great deal in his power, and he is
quite right in saying that, as long as

Fleming lives, lie has a hold upon you.
After his death, he can of course do
nothing."

'' No, but he thinks he can ; he is under
the impression that his power will last forever,
and in that lies our safety. He will
wait until he thinks he can strike some
great blow, and in the meantime his arm
will lose its strength."

There is something in that ; but he
may not choose to wait so long. He may
go abroad spreading slanders about you,
then I should have to come forward, and
you may be sure Fleming would hear the
whole affair. For your sake as well as his,
that must be prevented."

I do not think he will do that."
Or he may tell Fleming himself."
He never sees Cuthbert now ; and
after this, do you suppose I shall ever let
him enter the house aiain ? "

Well, I hope join are right, but I confess
I thoroughly distrust the man."

'' So do I, of course, but so far, my
influence has been enough to keep him out
of mischief."

So far, I grant you ; but you have
just thrown away your influence. You
have let him into the secret, and he knows
you have been laughing at him all this
time. Ko man likes to feel he has been
laughed at, least of all a vain man like
Knox."

*' Now you are angry," she said, looking
straight at him.

No, not angry, but I think you have
been even more imprudent than usual."

The temptation was irresistible. If
you had seen his solemnity, and heard the
magnificent results which he expected from
that letter, which sent us into such fits of
laughter, you too would have felt that you

must put the crowning point to the farce
by letting liii into the secret."

It is quite possible," he replied, unable
to restrain a smile at the thoughts
which her words suggested to him.

We must take precautions," she said.
*' I don't see why two people as clever as
we are, should not be able to circumvent
to the end a blundering bat like the
column."

Could you not give him a hint of vfhat
the future has in store for you ? I believe
if he knew, he would swallow his rage.
He has a great respect for wealth."

I hope never to see him again, but you
may give him a hint if you ever meet
him."

The future to which they alluded was
a change which had lately come over
Martha's fortunes. Cuthbert, though a
younger son, had never been poor, his

father had been exceedingly wealthy, so
that the younger son's portion had been
no mean one. His mother, too, had had a
large fortune, of which he had received
his share at her death. He was a man of
simple tastes, and had never spent all his
income before Martha had come to gratify
him with wearing rich and splendid dresses.
A few months before the point at which this
story has arrived, a tragedy had happened
in the family. His elder brother, with his
only son, had been drowned while yachting
off the Scotch coast, and the estate,
though not enticed, had of necessity come
to Cuthbert. He refused to move to the
old house, but had several long conversations
with Martha, the practical result of
which was that he signed a will, bequeathing;
to his wife all his own fortune without
reserve, and the family property until she
died or married ao-ain.

Martha had begged him not to do even
this. It was, she said, her dearest wish to
go through life free from the cares and responsibilities
attendant upon the accumulation
of earthly possessions; and she stood
aghast at the idea of being the owner
of an enormous house and such an estate
as should bring her in 20,000 a year.
Cuthbert would not listen to her objections,
and when once he wavered in his
resolve not to be moved to Tarn House, it
was when he thought of the fine sioht it
would be to see Martha sweeping about
the grand old corridors and waking the
echoes in the oak-panelled rooms with
her laughter. He liked to think that the
place should be hers, for however short a
time, for he believed firmly that she would
marry Dornford very soon after his death.
In Rilford this change had influenced
people in their manner to Mrs. Fleming.

It was known that Oswald Fleming was
dead, and that the property had come to
Cuthbert, but nothing was known about
who would have it after his death. But
there was always the chance that it would
belong to Martha, and in that case she
would be an exceedingly rich woman. So
she was more courted even than before.

Dornford often talked to her about this,
and asked what she would do with so
much money. She answered truthfully
that she did not know. She did not want
it, and it would simply encourage her to
surround herself with things she did not
need.

"I do not suppose," he said, 'that you
will ever live there."

"I intend to spend years there," she
replied emphatically. Upon which he
laughed and the subject dropped.

The day after Stephen had called, the

doctor gave a more encouraging opinion
of Cuthbert. He was better, and having
got over this attack, he might, with great
care, live two or three months longer, but
any sudden shock would kill him as surely
as if he had been shot through the heart.

"ewe will keep him," said Martha
valiantly ; '' he shall not have any shocks."

She felt quite gay again, and after the
doctor had gone, she spent an hour talking
and jesting with Cuthbert.

It was Wednesday, the day of the
classical concert, and Cuthbert insisted
upon her going. In consideration of what
had happened the day before, she had
decided to stay at home, and only yielded
on condition that Dornford should be
with her husband all the time she was
away.

When Dornford came, he said he could
not give the whole evening to Cuthbert;

he had a tiresome piece of business which
would necessitate his leaving town in the
afternoon, and he could not o-et back
before nine o'clock at the earliest. Martha
at once said she should stay at home ; but
Cuthbert would not hear of it ; he said
she wanted change and exercise, and that
he could quite well be left. He was first
imperative and then irritable, aud determined
she should go. Finding that a
repeated refusal only agitated and excited
him in a way that was very bad, she
yielded again, and when she went downstairs
with Dornford, said, 

What must I do ? You see in what a
state it puts him when I continue to
refuse."

You must go ; I see nothing else for it,
and I will come straight here from the
station."

AYould it not be justifiable in such a

case to pretend to go? I would dress
and sit downstairs; lie would never
know."

That would not do," lie said smiling ;
he would question you, and you would
inevitably be found out."

'' Yes, I expect so. But T might leave
at the end of the first part. I could
easily say it was dull and I had not cared
to stay."

Unfortunately you were extolling the
programme yesterday. You must go, and
make the best of it."

''It is so long since he was left fora
whole evening. I do not like to doit."


*' You must not let yourself get uneasy,
he is certainly better for the time."

'' Suppose that wretch comes ? "

'' You must leave word that he is not to
be admitted on any pretext whatever."

She was silent for a moment, then she
said, 

I suppose it must be, but I do not like
it."

In the evening she dressed, showed herself
to Cuthbert, received his compliments,
and drove away to the concert.

With Marion, things had been going from
bad to worse. It would be impossible to
describe the process by which she had
come to almost hate her husband, and to
cherish a feeling against Mary la, the
intensity of which she did not herself know
until an accident gave her an opportunity
of measuring it.

She had hoped much from Martha's
marriage. But since that time one things
after another had happened, until her
hopes were dead, her comfort gone, and
her heart sore and embittered beyond
endurance. A great deal of her suffering

arose from the fact that she took
no one into her confidence, but brooded
over her sorrows alone, and obstinately
refused to go with her husband to any
23lace where she would have been likely
to meet Mrs. Fleming. She heard no
more than vague reports, which she filled
up with the help of her imagination, and
her husband would have been amazed if
he had known how often she supposed
him to be enjoying Martha's society, when
he was engaged in a very different
manner.

On this afternoon following Stephen's
call upon Martha, a similar thing had
happened.

She had asked her husband to take her
out with him, and he had replied with some
awkwardness that he had a business
engagement to keep which prevented his
doing as she wished. The business was

really to take part in a meeting upon a
question on wliicli he and this wife were
completely at variance ; and as the reserve
between them had been steadily deepening,
he had never told her about this meeting-she
rushed at once to the conclusion that
he was going to see Mrs. Fleming, and
became cold and distant, as she always
did when she thought herself neglected.
She was left alone feeling angry and bitter,,
and when, about an hour or two later, she
received a note from her husband, saying
he found he could not return to dinner,
and she need not expect him before late in
the evening, all her long-restrained anger
broke loose. With trembling hands, she
tore up the note and flung it into the fire ;.
her cheeks burned, and her heart throbbed
till she felt as if she must suffocate.
Bitter, stinging words rose to her lips, and
were uttered half aloud. She walked up

VOL. III. N

and down the room, and then flung herself
on to a couch. She could not shut out
from her eyes the vision of her husband
and Mrs. Fleming seated together talking,
laughing, and utterly oblivious of her. She
knew better than any one how all cheerfulness
was absent from her home, how
depressed and irritable her husband got
when he spent a long winter evening with
her, almost in silence, rebuffed in all his
attempts at conversation, and met continually
by regrets that he should waste
so much time upon his wife. She was
keenly conscious of the constraint and
discomfort of meals eaten in a dreary
silence, broken only by such attempts at
conversation as were necessary in the
presence of the waiting-maid. Could she
wonder if he preferred to dine away from
home ? AAHiose fault was it, if he enjoyed
the society of other women better than

that of this wife ? The knowledge that
lie herself was greatly to blame for the
misunderstanding between herself and her
husband, in no way lessened her resentment
against both him and Marjla, rather it increased
it, until as she sat brooding over her
past life, her anger and bitterness grew,
until the burden became almost physical
discomfort, and she roused herself to do
something whicli should distract her
thoughts.

She pressed her hands to her head, and
thought she could not stay where she was,
she should go mad. She must go out,
but where ? To walk alone in the streets
would bring her neither ease nor rest.
She would go and return one of the many
calls she owed, and she would call on Mrs.
Atkinson, it was her afternoon. She
would see new faces, hear of something
else than what was in her thoughts, night
N 2

and flay. If lie liacl not some distraction,
she would go out of her mince, she was
beginning' to feel almost alarmed at this
thirst for vengeance which had suddenly
possessed her soul. She felt as though
she must do Martha a mischief, must make
her feel some of the pain she was so ready
to inflict upon other people. It was a wish
which was almost stronger than herself.

She went upstairs, dressed and went
out. It was not far to Mrs. Atkinson's
house, and she wondered why, when lie
stood upon the doorstep and had her hand
upon the bell, she should suddenly feel so
impelled to turn back and go home again.
She conquered the impulse, rang and was
admitted, to find a roomful of people all
talking about Martha. She felt after a
few minutes that she could bear it no
longer, and was on the point of rising to
go, when Mrs. Torkington was announced,
and she remained seated.

CHAPTER X.

"The long war closing in defeat."

It was only when Stephen sat alone and
undisturbed, in his own room, that he
fully realized all that had happened.
Even then he could scarcely believe it.
The whole story seemed 'so wildly improbable,
the idea that he had been laughed
at was so humiliating; and enraofino*. The
longer he reflected over it, however, the
more clearly he saw that the facts of the
case could only be as Martha had represented
them. He was oblige-ed to face the

o

truth that from the beginning, from the
dav on which he had told her that he
knew of her marriage with Maurice Wing-field,

lie liacl played with him ; used him
as interest, profit, or love of amusement
dictated. As he faced the truth, and the
thought of the letter he had been deluded
into writing to Wingfield, made his face
burn and his teeth clench with rage, he
felt his heart harden and his love for
Martha die. He hated her ; every time he
thought of her, remembered her laughter
on this same afternoon, and thought
how he had been fooled, his blood boiled
up anew, and his desire for and determination
to have revenge grew stronger.
He would make her suffer, with tears she
should repent the day when she had
practised her art upon Stephen Knox.
As soon as he was cool enough, he began
to lay his plans. He was resolved that
two things should happen. Cuthbert
should know, and society in Rilford should
know the truth about the woman who had

for SO long occupied such a prominent
position. She had never made any
secret of the fact that she did not
wish Cuthbert to hear this story; he
should hear it, and from Stephen's own
lips. There was no time to be lost. He
was somewhat puzzled as to the means
he should employ for spreading the news
amongst Mrs. Fleming's numerous acquaintances
; posters would have been the best,
but there were hindrances to such a plan.
Suddenly he smiled, as Martha's own
suo-question came into his mind. He
would tell Mrs. Torkington ; that done,
he mioht rest content.

It was late when his plans were complete
and he was able to compose himself to
sleep, but when sleep came it was as calm
and peaceful as that enjoyed by ]\Iaryla
herself.

Early on the following afternoon, he

went to Mrs. Torkington's house. By the
relief lie felt on hearing that she was at
home, he suddenly realized what suspense
he had been enduring.

He stayed with her for a long time.
Soon after his arrival, she rang the bell,
and desired the maid to report her as '' not
at home " to any other callers who came.
She did not say much while Stephen was
telling his tale, but from time to time her
eyes dilated and her head quivered.
"When he was going away, she said, 

'' I will do my duty, Mr. Knox; depend
upon it, I will do my duty, and at once."

And you are sure she will be at the
concert to-night ? "

I have it on the very best authority.
It is awful to see how she neglects the
poor fellow, and seizes the slightest pretext
for rushing into the wildest dissipation."


'' I will lose no time in telling him the
truth."

'' You are quite right, she must be
unmasked as soon as possible. To think
that for two years we have been living
with this thing in our midst, and treating
her just as one of ourselves. It is awful,
my brain reels," she finished, quivering as
she spoke.

As soon as Stephen had left her, she
rang the bell, and ordered the carriage at
once. In a quarter of an hour she was on
her way to Mrs. Atkinson's.

When she entered the room, the general
subject of conversation was a short story
ofMaryla's which she had just published
at Cuthbert's request. It was a fanciful
original conception and vas making a
considerable sensation. Mrs. Torkington
was at once asked if she had read it.

"I have not read it," she replied with

some majesty, '' nor is it my intention to
read it."

Not read a story of Martha Golden-gay's
! " exclaimed one lady, speaking of
Martha by lier maiden name, under which
she still wrote.

I shall never read anything of Martha
Goldengay's again."

'' I thought you admired her books so
much."

I do not consider them fit reading for
pure-minded women Martha Goldengay
has smirched herself."

As she spoke her head quivered until
the leaves in her bonnet rustled, and she
helped herself to two pieces of bread and
butter and folded them one upon the other.

There was a momentary pause, and then
Mrs. Atkinson asked, 

What do you mean, Mrs. Torkington ?
Pray explain yourself."

She has smashed herself ; she is a
bigamist."

*' No, really," said another lady, '' this
is too bad. You make the most awful
announcements, which raise our curiosity
as high as it will go, and then you tellus
nothing."

"You know," began Mrs. Torkington,
that we have all been in the habit of
considering Martha Goldengay, I can give
her no other name, as the wife of Cuthbert
-joor Cuthbert Fleming."

Of course ; we were nearly all at her
wedding."

*' She had been married before, and her
husband is still alive."

Impossible ! There must be some
mistake ; you have been duped."

'' I am not easily duped. I Lave my
information from an eye witness of the
weddings. She was married in a remote

country church, and was not aware that it
was known to any one, but an accidental
visitor to the church was present at the time,
and now comes forward with the truth."

Who was he, if we may ask ? "

"You know him well, and as far as I
know, he has neither desire nor need to hide
his name. It was Mr. Knox."

Mr. Knox ! "

There was a tone of dislike in the
exclamation. Mr. Knox had not been
popular in Rilford society, and one bold
spirit added, 

'' He always looked spiteful, I dare say
he has made it up."

Mrs. Torkington shook her head with a
bitter smile.

' I wish I could think so, but there is
no disputing facts, and he showed me the
marriage register itself."

''I call it rather sneaking to spy on

people like that," said the same young
lady who had spoken last. " Pray, Avliat
had Mrs. Fleming ever done to him?"

But her voice was drowned in the chorus
which demanded, 

"Oh, then you know his name. Do tellus,
dear Mrs. Torkington."

His name axis Maurice Wingfield."

'' Xo one we know anything about.
Perhaps, after all, he is dead."

*' You know him quite well under the
name of Oliver Dornford."

What I " cried the chorus, and then
was silent, overpowered by emotion, and
the daring young lady said, 

Poor Mrs. Fleming ; I am afraid it is
all over with her. Her glory is departed,
and I suppose none of us will be allowed
to speak to her again."

iso pure-minded woman will eveYtvant
to speak to her again," said Mrs.

Torkington in such a tone that the young
lady quailed beneath her glance, and
murmured, 

'' No, I suppose not."

'what about Mr. Fleming?" asked
another of the party ; '' does he know anything
about it ? "

Mr. Knox will take an early opportunity
of telling him."

Poor Mr. Fleming ! and he is so fond
of her ; it seems a pity that he cannot be
left to die in peace," came from the same
girl who had already spoken on Martha's
behalf.

'* He is not going to die just yet," explained
Mrs. Torkington, "and it is
imperative he should know the truth. We
should be committing a grievous sin, if we
allowed him to go on thinking that creature
the angel of goodness he has believed
her to be. I always said she looked bold."

'' Bat," persisted the girl, hovering lier
voice a little, " suppose the shock of hearing
this, kills Mr. Fleming."

'' It will not kill him. It will be a bitter,
bitter blow, of course, but it will not kill
him. Dr. Miller says he will live sometime
yet, and it is necessaria he should know
the truth. Why, a little bird told me that
he has left all his property to Martha, and
he ought to have an opportunity of altering
his will. I have no doubt that was at the
bottom of all her schemes, both hers and
Mr. Dornford's  a penniless adventurer
from New Zealand  oh, I know them well."

She spoke in some agitation, but she
evidently meant that the hope of being
left mistress of Tarn House had been the
reason of Martha' s marriage with Cuthbert.
So majestic was her manner as she spoke,
that only one or two ventured to point out,
that at the time of Cuthbert's marriage.

his death was a far greater probability than
that of his brother. But Mrs. Torkington
silenced them at once by saying rather
excitedly, 

My dear, I know it for a fact ; I assure
you that she and Mr. Wingfield-Dornford
were in active correspondence all along,
and as soon as she saw that poor Cuthbert's
days were numbered, she sent for this man,
who returned under an assumed name, and
has been living, preying I should rather
say, upon Cuthbert ever since. Oh,
Shakespeare was truly great when he said,
'' Where the carcase is, there shall the
eagles be gathered together."

She rose to go as she spoke, and her
parting words were, 

*' I suppose all of us who are at the
concert this evening will see this woman.
I do not know what you intend to do ; I,
for my part, shall ignore her."

The ladies whom Mrs. Torkington left;
behind, talked in great excitement of the
subject she had introduced, but in spite of
the authority with which she had spoken,
there was a general feeling that there was
nothing in her story. Her love of and talent
for romancing Averse well known ; she had
more than once before startled a whole
roomful of people with some strange and
marvellous tale, which upon investigation
was found to have been built upon a very
flimsy foundation of fact. Then there
was her statement that Martha would inherit
Cuthbert's property; if that were
true, Martha was by no means a person to
be ignored. It was unanimously agreed
that if she appeared at the concert that
evening she should be met as usual.

At the last moment, Mrs. Torkington
was prevented from going to the concert ;
had she been there, none of what follows

VOL. III.

might have taken place. Had Mary] a,

when she reached the concert hall, seen

Mrs. Torkington and been ignored by her,

she would have guessed what Stephen had

done, and would have returned home at

once.

*  *

During Mrs. Torkington' s story, for she
had entered into many details that are not
given here, Marion had not spoken a word.
She had sat leaning back in her chair,
drinking in every word which was said,
and at each moment dreading to hear her
own name.

She did not hear it. Stephen had mentioned
no names ; he had only given a
general outline of his stay at Stanedale
and first acquaintance with Martha. As
she heard the story, she felt instinctively
that it was true, and every word was
stamped upon her brain. It explained

SO many tidings which she had often
puzzled over, and had never been able
to understand. As soon as Mrs. Torkington
had left, she, too, rose to go, and
no one noticed anything strange in her
manner, though she was very pale and
even more monosyllabic than usual.

She drew a long breath when she got
out of the house and stood still for an
instant, as iP in doubt which way she
should go. At last she turned and
walked quickly home. The house was
still and dark when she entered it. Her
boy had gone to spend the afternoon with
some little friends, and her husband was
still out. She felt as if she had stepped
into a vault, and rang the bell for lights.
Without removing her walking things,
she sat down, drew writing materials to
her, and wrote upon a sheet of paper, 

'' Come to me at once,  Marion Grant."

This lie put into an envelope, and
addressed it to, 

' Stephen Knox, Esq.,

'' Grand Hotel,

'' Rilford."

She gave it to one of the servants, and
told her to take it to the hotel, and give
it to Mr. Knox himself ; should he not beat
home, she must wait until he came.

When the girl had left the house, she
went upstairs and mechanically took off
her walking things and changed her dress
for the one she generally wore in the
evening. Then she went downstairs
again, and waited for her messenger to
return. She could settle to no employment,
she tried to read, and she tried to
work, she even went to her piano and
tried some new music which lay upon it.
But she could not command her attention,
she found herself dropping her book or

work into lier lap, and lifting her hands
from the keys, that she might more freely
pursue the strange thoughts which passed
through her mind. She had never been
in such a strange state of excitement
before, and she presently began to feel
frightened at herself. The house was so
still, the silence of the quiet street was
broken only rarely by the roll of cabs or
carts. At last she took refuge in the last
resource of distracted people, she rose and
began to walk up and down the long room,
narrowed by the bookshelves containing
her husband's books which seemed to hem
her in and render breathing difficult. It
was an hour and a half before the servant
returned, and it had seemed a lifetime to
Marion, for in that time she had reviewed
her whole life.

The girl came in to say that she had not
found Mr. Knox at home, and so had waited

till he came ; lie had given him the note
and he had bidden her say he would come
at once. Her mistress heard her in silence
and dismissed her briefly.

A few minutes after, the clock struck
seven, and as she mechanically counted
the strokes, the bell of the house-door
rang, and then as the door opened, she
paused in her walk, turned and faced
Stephen.

They stood for a minute without speaking.
It was the first time they had met
since the long-past days in Stanedale, when
they had stood in so different a relation to
one another. Yet neither was thinking of
the other, but of a third who had done
them grievous wrong, both in the past and
present. They were too much absorbed
in the present moment to feel any
awkwardness or embarrassment at this
meeting, or to note any differences which

had arisen with time. Their hearts were
cold to each other, and burning against
their common enemy. Marion spoke first.

'' I have heard Mrs. Torkington's story ;
is it true ? "

'' Perfectly true."

'' I felt that it was. What are you
sroing to do ? Have you anv plan ? "

*' I am soing to tell him."

"When?"

'sto-night."

' How do you propose to get to him ? "

I shall go while she is at the concert.
I ought to be there now; but for your
urgent message, T should be on my way.
What do you want with me ? What
can I do for you ? "

' You must let me tell him."

You ? "

''Do you suppose that if you go, you
will be admitted ? She is careless, I grant

you but not so careless as to leave lier
house unprotected against you. If she is
not there she will have left some one in
charge."

She would only leave Dornford, and
he is away on business."

' Then she will have left directions
with her servants ; if you present yourself
at her door you will defeat your own ends,
you will not be admitted, and you will
have betrayed yourself so that you will
have no chance in the future."

He moved restlessly about the room fora
minute or two before he said, 

You may be right. What is your
own plan?"

That you give me the papers and let
me go."

"Will you go?"

With pleasure."

'' You will not turn weak at the end?"

'certainly not."

"Your plan is not a plot to deprive me
of mj weapon?"

Your weapon will be sharper in mj
hands than in your own. A cause like
yours loses nothing by being put into the
hands of a woman who has been injured."

How have you been injured ? What
grudge have you against her ? "

I ? " with a bitter little laugh. " It is
rather for me to ask what grudge have you
against her ? What has she done to you in
comparison with what she has done to me ?
Has she robbed you, shamed you, made
you an object of public ridicule ; has she
turned the hearts of your own relations
against you, has she embittered your life,
until you hate to think of her and yet
cannot rid your thoughts of her? Has
she filled your days with a constant fear of
what is coming:, of what more she can do

than lie lias done ? Have yon watched
some face yon loved, spying the gradual
change in it, have yon heard some voice
learn to say Martha in the tone in which
it once said Marion ? Has she given you
one of those tortures to bear? "

When did she do those things toyon?"
he asked, scarcely knowing what he
said, overwhelmed with the passion which
had at last broken loose, and now swept
all thoughts of time, place, and fitness like
straws before it.

'' When ? When has she not done it ?
I do not easily love, and it cost me an effort
to give my heart even to my father. He
did not thank me for it, but kept the gift
in a half-hearted way until she came, when
he returned my love to me, saying he had
no room for it in his heart. That was
hard to bear ; but I met you, and in time
grew to believe in your love and to trust

sou with mine. Again lie robbed me,
openly, shamelessly, without even a
pretence of wanting what she stole from
me. After that our paths clavicle, and we
parted  I hoped never to meet again.
Slowly I recovered from the blow she had
dealt me and learned to stand upright once
more. I forgot you and almost forgot her.
When I thought of her it was to utter a
wish which was a prayer that I might
never meet her ao'ain. T did not meet her
my husband did. A third time she has
robbed me, and again she does not want
what she steals. She has taken from me
my father, my lover and my husband ; if
she could she would take my child also.
He has never seen her, he shall never see
her. She has poisoned my life, but for
her I might have been a good woman ; she
has made me as wicked as herself. God
forgive me, but I desire her death."

She paused, whether because she had
said all or to gather strength for a new
outburst Stephen did not know. He had
listened to every word she had said,
marked every change of expression, every
inflection of her voice. When she was
silent, he said, 

I ask your pardon ; you have been
more deeply wronged and have suffered
more terribly than I have."

''Do not ask again if I shall falter in
my task. You asked if I would go and
tell her husband, and I said, ' With
pleasure.' It was true ; it will give me
pleasure to hurt her."

You shall go."

"But I would not hurt her husband, he
has done me no wrongs. I only want him
to see her as she is. Tell me, for I do not
know how ill he is, the hearing of this will
not kill him ? "

"It will not kill him. He is better,
and will survive this, certainly."

'' Ought I not to go now ? "

You will let me go with you ? "

*' If you will. Ring the bell and I will
send for a cab."

While waiting for the cab, she said, 

Show me the certificate."

He gave it her, and she held it for sometime,
reading again and again the two
names, Maurice Wingfield  Martha Gold
At last she gave it back to him,
saying slowly, 

'' She is a bad woman, and I am glad of

it."

* * *

When the servant opened the door,

Marion asked, 

*' Is Mrs. Fleming at home ? "

''i*o, ma'am; she has gone to the

concert."

Marion stood for a moment as though
considering"; then she said, 

Can I see Mr. Fleming ? I should
like to leave a message with him."

Yes, ma'am," replied the woman with
some hesitation.

I am Mrs. Grant; mj husband comes
here often."

"Yes, ma'am," said the woman, and
Marion failed to notice that the words
were not a reply, but merely said in
politeness.

She went on, 

He was here to-day."

Yes, ma'am," repeated the woman,
and indeed, for anything she knew, Mr.
Grant might have called in the afternoon,
when she had been out, and one of her
fellow-servants had opened the door.
Marion at once stepped inside the house,
saying,

Show me your master's room ; you
need not announce me."

In a short time she came clown ao-ain.
The maid was waiting in the hall to let
her out, and looked at her as she passed.
She had thought her at first sight taller
than she now appeared to be ; she noticed
too that her veil was closely drawn, and
that she walked very quickly, as though
in haste to leave the house. It was
a bitterly cold night, so the maid did not
wait to see Mrs. Grant get into her cab,
or she would have heard that in answer
to the cabman's question of where to ? she
said, "Anywhere  ifc does not hatter;"
and would have seen a man put his head
out of the window and say, 

To Wellington Road, where you came
from."

An hour later Dornford came, and as
soon as he was in the house, asked, 

Has anybody been ? "

"Yes, sir; Mrs. Grant''

"Mrs. Grant?"

Yes, sir ; she said Mr. Grant, the
gentleman who has been here once or
twice, is her husband. She asked for
the mistress, but when I said she was out,
she asked to leave a message with master.
So I took her up to his room."

Oh ! did she stay lons ? " asked Dartford,
already on his way upstairs.

Not above a few minutes, sir, and I
let her out myself. But a little while
back I went ijjstairs to get mistress's
room ready for the night, and the door
between her room and master's was open,
so I just peeped in. Master lay in bed,
sir, as usual, but I could not hear a
sound of his breathing, and the room was
so still, as still as death. I stood a minute
or two, thinking he would move, or draw a

breath, or something. But he lay as still
as a corpse, aucl not a bit of sound in all
the house ; so I began to feel frightened,
and ran down to the kitchen."

Almost before she had finished, Oliver
was rushing to Cuthbert's room, with the
girl following him. Even though he had
been prepared for it, he was struck with
the intense, death-like stillness of the
room. He turned up the gas and went to
the bedside. Cuthbert lay back among
the pillows, his face turned upwards.
The look it bore was unmistakable ; nevertheless
Oliver bent down and felt both his
heart and his pulse. After a time he
raised his head, and the girl, who had
been anxiously matching him, asked,
'* He is only asleep, sir, is he not ? "
"No," replied Oliver, "he is dead."

VOL. I IT.

CHAPTER XI.

' Dying for my sake."

When Martha reached the concert hall,
already well-filled with people, and heard
the tuning of the instruments, and in the
absence of Mrs. Torkington, was met wherever
she looked by nods and wreathed smiles
from friends and acquaintances innumerable,
her uneasiness began to fade, and by
the time the concert had begun, she was
almost herself again. The first part of the
concert included the Pastoral Symphony
and she listened to it in wrapt admiration
an enjoyment. The subtle music worked
upon her like a charm, and her face took a
new expression of beauty as she heard it.
When the interval came, she was immediately

surroiiucled by men of lier
acquaintance, to whom lie talked with a
gaiety born of the improvement in Cuthbert's
condition. Mr. Colman, as musical
critic of the Belford Herald was present, and
his face lit up with pleasure when he heard
how much better his friend was. Before
moving away to speak to some one else,
he entrusted Martha with a message to
Cuthbert, that on the following day he
should certainly come and see him.

Many of the ladies present watched
Martha with a new interest, and wondered
again if there could be any truth in Mrs.
Torkington's story. Their interest was
very much increased by the sudden appearance
of Mr. Dornford, who looked very
grave, and made his way straight to where
Mrs. Fleming was standing. Martha did
not see him until he was close to her, and
when she turned and saw his unsmiling
p 2

face in the midst of the laughing, chattering
group which surrounded her, a sudden
chill shot through her heart.

Cuthbert is ill," she said impulsively ;
'' you have come to take me home ? "

Yes," he replied ; " there is no time to
lose."

They left the hall together, and people
looked after them with some curiosity.

Outside the hall he stood still, saying, 

' If you will wait a moment, I will get
your wrap."

''I can get it more quickly," she answered,
withdrawing her hand, and going
into the cloak-room. She came out ajrain
in a moment, with a heavy, sable-lined
mantle on her arm. He wrapped it round
her and took her down to the street.

She asked only one question as they
drove home, and that was, 

*' Who has been with him ? "

Mrs. Grant."

"Marion ! " she exclaimed, and then ina
lower tone, " that was clever of him, I
never thought of her."

She said no more, and Dornford was
glad, for it would have been almost
impossible to talk in the rattling cab.
She sat still in her corner by his side,
muffled in her furs, and looking straight
before her. The drive seemed very long,
and they were both glad when the
cab stopped.

The house-door was opened before they
reached it, and Dornford, after helping her
out, kept her hand for a moment, as he
said, 

'' It is already some time since I left
him."

I know that he is dead," was her
reply ; '' I have known it all along. Had
he been alive you would not have left him."

The servants were in the hall, and they
watched with a feeling almost of awe, their
mistress pass up the wide, old-fashioned
staircase, followed by Dornford. She did
not speak as they went along the landing,
nor as they entered the room.

It was just as she had left it. except
that the bed-curtains were closed. She
drew them back, and stood looking down
upon her husband's face.

Dornford watched her attentively ; there
was such a strange look upon her face,
and it was so perfectly colourless. She
stood in silence for some time, and then
she said, 

"Cuthbert."

Her voice was low, but it seemed to
ring loudly through the perfect stillness of
the room, and Dornford started when he
heard it.

Cuthbert," she repeated, '' I am here."

There was silence again, then she bent
down, swept the hair from his forehead,
and kissed him, while she repeated, 

I am here, Cuthbert, I am here."

It was too painful, and Dornford interposed,
saying, 

'' He cannot hear you, Martha, he is
dead."

She drew a long sigh, and turned to
him, saying mournfully, 

Yes, I know. I want to be alone
with him."

He left the room and went downstairs.
The servants were still up, talking in
whispers over the kitchen fire. He sent
them to bed, saying, 

''I do not think your mistress will want
anything. If she does, I will get it for
her. I shall stay here all night."

"Shall we rake you up a bed, sir?"
asked one of the 2:irls.

No, make up the dining-room fire, I
will sit there."

In half an hour the house was quiet,
and Dornford was seated in an easy chair
by the dining-room fire, ready for any
sign that Mary la needed help or comfort.


When Martha was left alone with Cuthbert,
she remained standing by the bedside.
Strange thoughts passed through
her mind, and her heart was wrung with a
bitter aching pain, almost too great for
endurance. There he lay dead  his lips
sealed for ever. She would never know
what he had been told, or how it had
been told to him. Had he died in anger,
or in grief ? She would never know. It
must ever remain a secret to her how he
had received the news, or whether he had
even heard it all. What had he said?
How had he thought of her ? She would

never know, he would never unclose his
lips to tell her. That pale, calm face told
nothing, and her heart ached until she
could have cried aloud with pain, and she
sank on her knees, saying, 

'' Cuthbert, Cuthbert, it was not true.
Whatever she told you was not true. I
am your wife, I have always been faithful
to you. Wherever you are, hear me and
believe me. I loved you and I have killed
you. Make some sign that you hear me
and forgive me."

But she got no sign. The most perfect
silence reigned over the house, and the
dead man remained as still as before.

CHAPTER XII.

*tis a strange truth."

It was ou the afternoon of the next day
that Dornford entered the room where
Martha sat behind the drawn blinds, and
said, 

I am going now."

"Yes, go," she said; "you have my
authority to tell the whole story. For
Cuthbert's sake the truth must be
known."

For 3' our sake, too, Martha."

'' For mine, too, if you like. Perhaps
for yours most of all."

He was bent on rather a strange errand.
Early in the morning he had had an
interview with Mrs. Torkington, and had

exacted from her a promise that by four
o'clock that afternoon she would have
assembled in her drawing-room all the
women to whom she had told Stephen's
tale. Publicly as the accusation, should
the justification be made, and he was
going to make the justification.

When he entered the room, he glanced
over the assemblage of ladies, and when
Mrs. Torkington came forward to greet
him, asked in a low voice, 

"Are they all here ? "

'' All except Mrs. Grant. She is ill in
bed, and they fear brain fever. It is very
strange, she seemed quite well yesterday."

He began his story without any preamble
by saying, 

"I have come to correct a very untruthful
and slanderous report which was circulated
yesterday about Mrs. Fleming. I
must ask for your attention for some time,

as the story I have to tell you is a long
one, and without hearing it all you could
scarcely understand that part of it in which
you are interested. 1 have known Mrs.
Fleming since she was a very young girl,
almost a child, and from the first time I
saw her, I admired and loved her. Even
at that age, she was beautiful with more
than a child's beauty, and charming by her
many and varying moods. I remember
well one summer when I had gone with
the countess and her daughter to a summer
boarding-house near Dresden. There was
only one general sitting-room, and most of
the visitors filled their bed-rooms with
glasses of flowers, which at night they
used to put outside their doors. Mrs.
Fleming was always an early riser, and
when she left her room one morning and
saw all these pots of flowers standing at
the doors of their different owners, an

idea came into her head. She visited each
nosegay in turn, and robbed them all of
the choicest flowers. She made them up
into little knots, and when the various
people came down to breakfast she received
them all with a smile and a pretty little
nosegay. Every one was astonished at
such an attention from Miss Golden gay,
who was not a universal favourite, and
high good-humour reigned until it was
discovered where the flowers had come
from. I tell you this anecdote as a sample
of her humour in those days  she was
fifteen or sixteen  and because, as you
will see later, she possesses the very same
spirit to this day."

Most of the ladies present smiled at
this characteristic story of the great
novelist, and Dornford went on, 

It was useless trying to inspire her
with fear or even reverence; she had a

quick and witty tongue which enabled lier
always to turn the laugh against even the
most pathetic of her victims."

He paused again, but only a few of his
audience smiled, and that constrainedly.
Few of these ladies had not at one time or
another received a thrust from this quick
and witty tongue, and they did not consider
such experiences amusing.

'* Things continued in this way," went
on Dornford, '' for some time longer. I
speak with all respect of the countess, she
was unvarying in her kindness to me, but
she certainly made no attempt to train her
daughter's mind or character. She was
fond and proud of her, denied her nothing,
but mentally and morally Miss Goldengay
was left entirely to herself, and her own
crude and highly original ideas of right
and wrong. When she was sixteen she
had a fall from a horse, which was followed

by a serious illness and a long confinement
to the Louse. It was then she made the
acquaintance of Mr. Richardson. He
naturally grew very fond of her, and they
spent a great deal of time together. He
was very much troubled at her strange
mental condition, and the remarkable
theory of life and its meaning which she
had worked out of her observations of
what she saw going on around her. He
thought a great deal about what means
were in his power of placing her in surroundings
more suitable to her age and
character, and he at length proposed to
the countess that she should allow her
daughter to return to England with him
and to live in his house as his third
daughter.

*' At that time I was just one and twenty,
and I had begun to love Miss Goldengay,
and to dream of winning her for my wife.

It was a terrible blow to me when I heard
she was to go to England ; the more so as
she seemed entirely occupied with her new
friend and to have no time or thought for
any one else. We had more than one
dispute about it, and she did her utmost to
increase my already raging jealousy of Mr.
Richardson.

When she went to England, I followed
her, secretly, and established myself at
Haygarth, a remote village among the
hills, and about ten miles from Stanedale.
I did not intend her to knows I was there,
but, in one of the long rambles which she
at once began to take in that beautiful
country, she came upon my hiding-place
and discovered me there.

She was delighted with my folly, and, I
believe, glad to see me again, for my own
sake. She represented her new home asa
paradise in which she was the serpent.

who had been introduced to make discord
between her friend and his two
daughters.

*' She consented to keep my presence in
the country a secret, and to make opportunities
for our meeting. Those were good
days, when we got endless amusement out
of our neighbours, and I remember that
even then I was impressed by the power
of description she possessed, and her
wonderful faculty for observation.

It was impossible not to see that she
was perfectly happy, and that there was
no earthly need for me to remain near her
in the capacity of protector which I had
assumed. But I could not tear myself
away, and I persuaded myself that I was
doing rather a fine thing in staying and
disregarding more than one summons
from my uncle. He wrote that he Alas
dying, but he had so often written the

VOL. in. Q

same thing before, and after bringing me
home to Ireland, from the uttermost parts
of the earth, greeted me upon my arrival
in very good health, that I did not attach
much importance to this particular
communication. I had a conviction that
sooner or later Miss Goldengay would
find her position in Mr. Richardson's
house unbearable, and that then it would
be well for me to be near her. I asked
her to marry me more than once. She
always refused, with more amusement at
the idea than in my eyes the occasion
seemed to warrant.

When she had been living at Stanedale
about a year, her mother died suddenly,
leaving neither will nor any directions
about the future of her daughter. This
was the cause of a very grievous quarrel
between Mr. Richardson and his ward.
There is no need to go over it, it is enough

to say that in talking over ways and means,
he made the unfortunate proposition that
if she liked he would write to her father's
relatives, with whom he had quarrelled on
his marriage, and who had never had any
communication with his widow and
daughter. The proposal set her Polish
blood in a flame at once and a very painful
scene followed. "When she left him it was
to come to me and tell me that I had been
right, her mother was dead, she was alone
in the world, and it was impossible for
her to remain another day under Mr.
Richardson's roof. She concluded basking
my advice. I had only one counsel
to give, I again begged her to marry me.
She consented after some persuasion, telling
me at the same time that she only did it
for convenience, and that I was not to fancy
she had any love for me. She was barely
seventeen at the time, and I was too much
Q 2

overjoyed at her at last yielding to me to
take very much notice of anything else.
I persuaded her to go home again until I
had made the necessary preparations, but
as she would not hear of waiting three
weeks, I resolved to spend almost the last
money I had in getting a special licence.
I was horribly afraid lest she should change
her mind, though experience had taught
me that her word was her bond, and I
thought the wedding-day would never
come. It did come, she walked over the
hills to Haygarth, I went as far towards
Stanedale as I dared, to meet her, and at
the appointed time we stood before the altar
in Haygarth church, the marriage service
was read over us, the register signed, and
we were man and wife."

He paused, but no one spoke ; his listeners
sat in breathless interest, drinking
in every word which fell from his lips.

After the ceremony was completed,
we left the church, and now Martha did
what laid the foundation of all her difficulties.
As we walked down the churchyard,
I made some remark, sentimental
and ridiculous no doubt, which amused
her vastly and she went into a fit of
laughter, which she could not check for
some time. We went back to the little inn
where I had been staying, and had some
lunch ; then Martha, at my request, went
upstairs to lie down and take some rest
before we left Haygarth.

At Haygarth you could not get your
letters till the middle of the morning, and
then you had to go to the post-office and
get them for yourself. On this particular
morning, more important events had
caused me to forget the existence of letters
altogether, but when I was left alone,
with nothing to do, I recollected that I

had not yet been to the post-office, and I
went at once. I found two letters, one was
from a friend to whom I had told my plans,
and it contained congratulations and good
wishes ; the other was from my uncle's
lawyer, and informed me that my uncle
was dead, and in consequence of my undutiful
conduct at the last, he had left all
his property to a distant cousin, with
whose very name I was scarcely familiar.
I came in for one hundred pounds.

'' I cannot tell you what I felt when I read
that letter. I must remind you of my
circumstances, and then you can judge
for yourselves. I was two and twenty, I
had no profession or professional education,
and I was absolutely dependent upon my
uncle, my father having died in debt. My
plan had been to go straight from Hay-garth
to my uncle's. There was nothing
in Martha's circumstances which could
make him object to our marriage, and I

knew that he would delight in her beauty
and intellect. That plan was at an end,
and I saw myself with some fifty pounds
in mj pocket, the prospect of a hundred
more some time, and a wife who had all
her life long had just what she wanted,
and had never been denied anything she
asked for.

I think I went mad, and then I was
brought to myself by the thought that
something must be done. I did not go
back to the inn ; I wandered off amongst
the hills and there came to a resolution.
I saw that henceforth I must work for my
living, even begin at the very beginning,
and fight my way upward with only myself
to rely upon. The prospect as it
concerned myself alone was not alarming.
I enjoyed the thought, it warmed my
heart and enabled me to stand upright.
I resolved to emigrate. Such money as I
had would secure me a decent passage out

and maintenance until I found work. I
should be a free man in a free country.
But there was Martha. I had no right to
impose these hard conditions upon her
life, the circumstances of our marriage
being what they were, I could not ask her
to emigrate with me and share such a life
as mine must for some time of necessity
be. I made up my mind to give her up
and restore her liberty to her. I had
reason to delicate she was already reconciled
with Mr. Richardson, and that only
her promise to me had brought her to
Haygarth that morning. T felt that I had
no right to her, and I determined to resign
her. The determination was not come to
easily, and I feared that if I saw her again
my resolution might fail, so I made up my
mind to leave the place if possible, without
saying good-bye.

"T went back to the inn, hoping that

Marjla had not yet left lier room. I was
told she had come downstairs a short time
before, and had gone for a walk, leaving
word that she would be back in time for
the carriage which was to take ns to the
nearest railway station. I sat down and
wrote to her, telling her everything, and
of my resolve to put away everything connected
with the old life. I was going to
change my name,  and I fear I have told
my story badly, for I have never said that
all this time my name was Maurice Springfield.
I changed my surname to Dartford,
which was a name in my mother's
family ; I do not know why I took Oliver
instead of Maurice, I suppose I had a
reason then. I told her that under the
circumstances, our marriage was no
marriage, and that she was at liberty to
marry again if she pleased. I was young,
and had worked myself up into a mood of

heroic self-sacrifice, in wliicli 1 could have
clone anything as long as I was alone. If
she had come into the room at that
moment, everything might have been
different. I knew there would be no
difficulty about her returning home ; it
was no unusual thing for her to spend a
whole day upon the hills, and we had
resolved that only when we left Haygarth
should she send a messenger to Mr.
Richards on.

That is the story of our marriage ; and
now I suppose you want to hear how
Stephen Knox came to be connected with
it."

He told briefly how Stephen had been
in the church, and of his later sojourn in
Mr. Richardson's house. He did not mention
Marion's name, but returned to
Mary la.

'* She went home again the same day, and

it became the object of her Hfe to hide the
foolish step she had taken from Mr.
Richardson. She would have been in no
danger, but for the register which remained
to bear witness against her, so
that when Stephen Knox wished to gratify
his curiosity, he had not the slightest
difficulty in doing so.

'her marriage With Fleming: was brought
about by a curious combination of circumstances.
She did not love me, but she had
been touched by my renouncing a claim
which I might have pressed, and it was
always her intention to remain single
until my return, and to give me a chance
of winning her love. That was what she
meant by answering Fleming's entreaties
that she would marry him, with the announcement
of an insuperable obstacle.
Later, when Fleming had sacrificed himself
for her sake, she yielded. Soon after

their marriage, Knox returned with her
secret in his possession. Then I came
back sooner than either she or I had expected.
I had been exceptionally fortunate
in New Zealand, and I longed to see her
again. I had read her books and I rejoiced
in her genius and fame.

Beautiful as she had been when a girl,
I was scarcely prepared for her marvellous
development. When I was introduced to
her, she gave the first indication that she
wished Wingfield and Dornford to appear
as two distinct people. I did not know
her reason, but I entered into her spirit
and accepted the position. The next day
I went to her house, and she explained
everything to me. I pointed out that she
was taking a very dangerous course, which
her only object in pursuing was that she
might plague and mystify Stephen Knox ;
that if she had never mentioned Maurice

Wingfield be would never have thought of
associating me with him, that she was
running a great risk, that there was
really no secret to keep, but if things went
wrong it would appear as if there had
been. She waved her hand and said
things would not go wrong, that her
greatest joy was to run great risks. In
short, it was impossible to reason with
her, and for her own sake I consented todo
what she wished. All went well until
the day when she forgot prudence and
told Knox the truth, that is, who I was.
You know how he acted on that intelligence.
There is no more to tell. I have
merely to add that Mrs. Fleming is absolutely
free from reproach. She married
Fleming in gratitude, a quality which is so
seldom seen now-a-days that one must not
be surprised if her motive is misunderstood,
and she has been a devoted wife to him.

She has perhaps been unnecessarily careless,
and has let her zeal and enthusiasm
for her art overcome her discretion, but
on the other hand, she has shown more
than ordinary love and heroism. Her
life has not been all sunshine, and she
repented bitterly of having concealed
her nominal marriage to me. Her husband
loved her passionately; the last
two years of his life have, thanks to
her, been the happiest. He was my
closest friend, and I have lost him, she
has lost her husband, you know how,
and I may leave you to pass judgment as
you please, only reminding you that she
was legally as well as morally free, for
I had been absent more than seven years
when she married Fleming."

CHAPTER XIII.

*' And she to him will reach her hand,"

Cuthbert's body was taken to Tarn
House to be buried. In allowing this,
Martha was complying with the unanimous
wish of her husband's family. She
herself had an almost exaggerated dislike
to jDomp or circumstance in funerals,
and she had also a conviction that Cuthbert
would have preferred to be buried in
the city where he had lived and loved.
Still there was a certain amount of reason
in Mrs. Denison's argument that Cuthbert
had been, if only for a few months, the
head of the family, and therefore it was fit

that his body should he in the family
vault.

It was a week after the funeral, and
Martha and Dornford were seated together
in the library at Tarn House talking
business. Dornford had arrived that
morning, and in the afternoon he would
leave again. Martha had come out to
meet him in the great hall, panelled with
oak and hung with trophies of the chase.
As she came forward with the sunlight
falling on her through the painted
windows, a feeling of sorrow that Cuthbert
could not see her, had come into
Dornford's mind.

He had been explaining to her as well
as he could her position with regard to
her publishers, of which she had only a
very vague idea, having left everything in
Cuthbert's care, up to the last. He ended
by asking, 

Do you know low rich you are ? "

No. I know I must be ricci, because
the clergyman and his wife have already
called upon me, but I do not know the
exact sum of my wealth."

You have 25,000?. a year."

'* Oh," was her reply, and then she was
silent, leaning back in the carved oak
chair in which she sat. Presently she
went on, 

Is it not absurd, that I, whose ideal
is a modest competence, which should save
me from dying in the workhouse, and yet
leave me free from responsibility, should
suddenly find myself the possessor of
25,000/. a year. I think it is in rather
bad taste for one person to have so much
more money than any of the other people
who live in the same place. I do not
know what I shall do with it."
You can get rid of it whenever you like."

VOL. III. B

'* Yes, there is that consolation ; I can
trj how I like it, and when I am tired,
give it up. I have had some letters," she
went on, without waiting for him to speak,
and stretching out her hand for a little
basket in which she ke23t letters, such
keys as she had not lost, and various odds
and ends. " This one is from a Women's
Suffrage Society. The secretary writes
to ask what my political views are, and
whether, in the event of the suffrage
being won this session, I am prepared to
exercise in a responsible way, the great
power which will be given to me. She
adds that a special fund of a thousand
pounds is being raised to meet the
expenses of the past year. I have no
objection to send them money, but I think
I will not trouble them with my political
views. This one," unfolding another
paper, " is from a society for suppressing

vivisection. They have sent me some
papers, wliicli are very interesting. I
never liearcl an argument wliicli would
hold water in favour of vivisection. I
remember one of the professors of Milford
College telling me that the aim of the vivid
was to abolish pain. I said that
to attempt to abolish pain by transferring
it from one set of creatures to another,
reminded me of the attempt made by the
man to lengthen his blanket by cutting a
piece off the top, and sewing it on to the
bottom. These people seem to be doing
good work, and it will really give me
pleasure to help them. All those others,"
she went on with a sweep of her hand in the
direction of a pile of papers, ' are begging."

'did not your solicitor explain everything
to you?" he asked.

'' He did explain, but I did not listen.
I was thinking of something else."
K 2

What were you thinking of ? "

Of a new book I am going to write.
It has been ready for beginning sometime,
but while Cuthbert was alive, I could
do nothing to it. Now I can begin at
once. It is very uncomfortable to have
ifc working in your mind and to be unable
to put it down on paper. I really can
think of nothing else just now."

Oliver looked at her curiously. He had
noticed a difference in her, an absorbed
expression and an abstraction from her
surroundings, which had puzzled him very
much. This was the explanation of it.
Her words showed the restraint she had
exercised over herself during the last
months of Cuthbert's life, and she tacitly
admitted it by beginning to write as soon
as she was at liberty to do so.

The silence lasted for some time, and
then he said, 

*' There is not much time left. Let us
talk a little about the future'*

Yes," she replied ; ' when do you sail
for New Zealand?"

To-morrow. I shall wind up my
affairs there, and then come back to
England for good. When may I see you
adam .

In a year," she replied, after a
moment's consideration.

"A year is a long time; will you not
see me before ? "

I would rather not."

''So be it. With the two voyages, and
my business out there, I may fill up te
time. But I may write to you ? "

'eyes, I should like to hear from you."

'' And you will answer my letters ?"

"I generally pay my debts."

'' What shall you do all that time ? "

*' Write my book."

All, yes, soli will have occupation
enough. I suppose you will stay here?"

'eyes, all the time."

He gave her his address in lew
Zealand, they said good-bye and parted.

During this year, Martha lived very
quietly. She received the calls of all the
neighbourhood, and sent her card in
return. No one was asked to repeat his
visit, and Mrs. Fleming was never seen
outside her own park-gates. Certainly
her own park was large enough and varied
enough to satisfy the needs of even so
enthusiastic a pedestrian as Martha,
and Tarn House had corridors and
galleries in which an extended constitutional
could be taken oil very wet days.
It was a very beautiful old place, standing
on a terrace, and quaint with gables and
twisted chimneys, and odd windows which
jutted out unexpectedly at corners. There

was a wide, deep porch, as large as many
a modern room, from which you entered a
great dim hall with a fireplace surmounted
by a tall curiously carved oaken mantelpiece.
Opposite the house-door was a
wide stone arch which formed the entrance
to a gallery with a polished wooden floor,
which led to the rooms on the ground-floor.
The park, as before said, was very
large and full of exquisite bits of broken
land. The tarn which it contained, and
which gave its name to the house, was a
beautiful sheet of water in the loveliest
and wildest part of the park. It at once
became Martha's favourite haunt, partly
from its beauty and situation, and partly
because it reminded her powerfully of
Hi2:h Tarn at Stanedale.

In this solitude she lived for a year.
Few people came to visit her. Now and
then one of her husband's relations came

to see her, but never staved long:. In
the summer a young lady named Playfair
came from Rilford, and stayed with Mrs.
Fleming several weeks. Perhaps, Mrs.
Fleming found her thoughts, her books
and her letters society enough. Letters
she received in abundance ; there was the
periodical one from New Zealand, and
others which came less regularly. One
she received from Mr. Grant. It related
amongst other things that the writer, with
his wife and child, were on the joint of
sailing for America ; he having made up
his mind to accompany an emigrant ship
and settle in the far West.

Martha read the letter through carefully,
with a peculiar expression on her face.
Then she sat for some time lost in thought.
At last she tore the sheets of paper into
little bits, and said slowly, with a half-sigh,


'' Poor Marion ! Poor Marion ! "
A more frequent visitor was Sir Edward
Goldengay. He came several times during
the year, and stayed for some days each
time. He was at Tarn House in the
autumn, rather more than a year after
Dornford had sailed for New Zealand. He
took a deep interest in his niece's property,
and always made a tour of inspection allover
everywhere on each visit. On this
particular day he had been looking at one
of the farms and was coming to speak to
Martha about it, when, as he drew near
the house, he saw her step out of a side
door into the west terrace. He joined her
and walked the length of the terrace two
or three times before speaking.

It was a still afternoon in the late autumn,
so late that elsewhere one would have
called it early winter, but winter seemed
to shrink from his task of stripping the

Tarn House woods of their autumn pomp.
The very wind seemed to rustle more
gently through their branches, as though
fearful of thinning their golden wealth.
The sky was a pale and hazy blue, and one
was scarce conscious of the mild rays of the
sun. Martha, always sensitive to atmospheric
influences, seemed doubly so to-day. Her
uncle, looking at her, was struck with the
dreamy, almost tender look in her face and
eyes. She seemed scarcely conscious of
where she was, or of his presence by her
side. She always wore long dresses in the
house, and the only sound was the slight
rustling of her skirts as they swept over
the grass. She kept her eyes fixed
upon the golden trees, and suddenly
said, 

'' Their beauty will be gone in a day or
two now ; I am sorry it is so late."

She spoke in a tone of sorrowful regret.

and lie thought site spoke of the lateness
of the season. As it fitted in with what
he wanted to say, he began to speak at
once.

You are quite right, it is late. If you
take my advice, you will have it seen to
before it is too late."

What do you mean ? " she asked,
turning to him with rather a puzzled look.
What can you know about it ? "

I have just been looking at it. I knew
if it was left to you nothing; would ever be
done, and between ourselves that farmer
does not seem quite trustworthy."

The farmer ! " she repeated; '' I don't
know on earth what you mean."

He explained, and she laughed a little,
saying,

"We were at cross purposes. I was
not thinking about farms, or farmers."

I wish you would think about them

a little more. Seriously, Mary la, that
place ought to be seen to, it is scarcely
safe."

Oh," she replied easily, " it will last my
time."

'' Last your time ! You are quite mistaken.
I shall be surprised if it holds out
another year."

Do not be uneasy, that will be more
than my time."

'' What do you mean ? You have not
any complaint. I hope you have not
caught poor Fleming's consumption,
through nursing him. I always thought
you carried your devotion to extremes.
You might just as well have had a nurse,
especially at the last, when there is undoubtedly
infection."

'' Understand, uncle, that I am speaking
perfectly seriously when I say that if I had
given up my life for Cuthbert, I should

have been Qivino no more than he had a
right to ask."

"Tut, tut," said her uncle, 'you
exaggerate. You always let your enthusiasm
run away with you. You gave
me quite a fright when you talked about
things lasting your time. I thought you
were going to die."

'did you? Is one's life one's only
time ? Can one keep everything until
death comes ? "

In this case you can. I have always
understood that you had this place for
your life."

Or until I marry again."

Sir Edward changed colour, but said
steadily,  

I hope you have no such intention ?

Ashy should I not have such an intention
? "

It would be a most foolish step to take.

Think what you would be giving up.
Into man could offer you a better position
than you have now. If he had greater
wealth, he would be there to share it.
You must not think of such a thing."

Only one man has said ' you must ' or
you must not ' to me, with any chance
of being obeyed."
And you are going to marry that man ? "

'' I did not say so. For one thing, he
has not asked me to marry him."

"Who is he?"

' An Irishman. "

I might have guessed it. Where isle ?"

''I do not know?"

How, you do not know ? "

He is on the sea, but I do not know
where. When I said just now, I was
sorry it was so late, you thought I was
speaking of the season ; I was speaking of
his ship. It ought to have been in last

week. The woods were magnificent then ;
in another day or two their beauty will begone.
I should have liked him to see
them at their best."

Sir Edward said nothing He had
noticed within the last few days a change
in his niece, and an unusual eagerness on
her part to read the newspapers and to
open the letter-bag. These things were
now explained. But he hardened his
heart, and went on, 

I suppose that when he arrives, if he
does arrive, he will at once ask you to
marry him ? "

' I believe so."

'' Shall you marry him ? "

'' That you will know by my answer."

Sir Edward was angry, and made no
attempt to conceal his anger.

I consider it a thousand pities that
Fleming left your affairs as he has done,

completely under your own guidance.
You have genius, I grant, few women
have lead such; but you have no more
practical, common sense than a child.
You are in a most exceptional position,
and you are ready to fall a victim to the
first penniless adventurer who comes in
your way. I suppose he has a handsome
face and a fascinating smile. I can only
hope he does not know the condition
attached to your second marriage ; when
he does, we shall probably hear no more
of him."

They were standing at the end of the
terrace, near the door out of which Martha
had stepped. She stood still and faced
her uncle, saying, 

"You are speaking of my husband's
closest friend, from whom neither he nor
I bad any secrets. If I chose to tell you
his name, you might wish to withdraw

what you Lave said. You would certainly
acknowledge that an offer of marriage
from him to me, could only be an honour,
of which, whether I accept it or not, I
am scarcely worthy."

While they had been speaking, unseen
by either her or her uncle, a man had
driven up the avenue to the house, and on
reaching it had been shown into the small
drawing-room from which the door on to
the terrace opened. He had caught the
last part of Sir Edward's speech and had
been on the point of stepping out when
he heard Martha's voice in answer. He
listened, unfairly, perhaps, but naturally,
and as she spoke the last words, he stepped
up to her with the impulsiveness of his
nationality, saying,  

You must allow me to dispute that last
statement."

He smiled as he spoke, but the only
VOL. in. s

response lie got was a haughty look
from dark, indignant eyes, and the
words, 

'' Mr. Dornford ! Pray have you risen
from the dead?"

As he stood speechless, she went
on, 

I suppose you have been listening ; T
have no doubt you thought I was in
earnest."

And she was gone before he could
speak.

Not long afterwards, her maid knocked
at the door of the room in which she
sat, and asked if she would admit Mr.
Dornford to say good-bye before he
left.

Tell me when the carriage is at the
door," she said, "and I will meet him in
the hall; and see," she added, "that no
one else is there."

Dornford was standing in the hall, leaning
against the mantelpiece. It was buta
short time since he had stood herewith
hopes high burning; " now he wa
leavings aoain, feelings that he had been
fooled. A rustle of silk roused him from
this meditations, and looking up, he saw
Marjla standing on the top step which led
up into the gallery.

"Why are you going away?" she
asked.

Because you have left me nothing else
to do."

Why did you come at all, if you
intended to go so soon ? "

'' I came to ask you to be my wife,
but you have made the question unnecessary."


'how?"

You told me plainly that you did not
love me."

That was very forward, for I do not
remember that you ever asked me."

Then I ask you now, Martha. I love
you with all my heart and soul ; do you
love me ? "

Still she neither spoke nor came nearer.
But the look in her eyes made him stride
across the hall to the foot of the steps,
saying,

'' Your eyes say ' yes,' but I must have
a sign that they speak the truth. Give
me a sign, Martha."

Slowly, and with a growing smile, she
stretched out her hand to him ; not the
right hand, but the left.

THE Enim.

GILIIEIIT AND RIVING. ON, LlMIlEU, ST. Join's SQUARE, 1.0NlJO.>

WARD & DOWHSY's

LIST OF

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

"i

A Nei!j Illustrated Catalogue, containing
additional portraits of Robert Buchanan, the Rev.
S. Baring-Gould author of '' Mehalah,'') the lai
Buc de Broglie, Mabel Collins, y. F. Keene,
T. P. O'Connor, M.P., Thomas Pimiell, ''Rita;*
Dr. Strauss (" The Old Bohemians') dc, is in
preparation.

Travels in the Interior. ; or, the Wonderful Adventures
of Luke and Belinda. By A. T. Schofield,
M.D. Illustrated by Harry Furnish. Crown
8vo.

** This work attempts to teach accurately and
scientifically , and in an entirely novel and entertaining
manner, the anatomy and physiology of
the human body.

The Candidates' Latin Grammar. By Sidney
Reed, Bea. Crown 8vo. 3|6.

*jf* Intended chiefly for the use of candidates at
public examinations.

Through the Golden Gates : a Fragment of
Thought. By the Author of " The Light on the
Path." Handsomely bound, gilt top. common

Sense in the Nursery. By Marion
Garland. Crown 8vo. radishes

and Drinks; or Philosophy in the Kitchen.
By G. L. M. Strauss (* The old Bohemian ").
Crown 8vo. 2|6.

Living Paris: a Guide to the Manners, Monuments,
and Institutions of the People. With Maps and
Plans. Foolscap 8vo. 7|6.

New Works of History, Travel,
Biography, &c.

In French and Russian Prisons. By Prince
Krapotkine. [In the Press.

Personal Recollections of the Due De Broglie.
Two vols., demy 8vo. [In the Press,

To and Fro : Records of an Eventful Career. By
J. F. Keene, Author of ** Six months in
Mecca," &e. Twc vols. [In the Press.

Duelling Days in the Army. By William

Douglas. Imp. imo. [In the Press.

A Look Round Literature. By Robert Buchanan.
Crown 8vo. 7|6.

The Healing Art : A History of Medicine and
Medical Celebrities from the Earliest Times to the
Present Day. Two vols., demy 8vo. 25I-.

Ancient Legends of Ireland. By Lady Wilde.

I'wo vols., crown 8vo. 21 p.

Famous Plays : from Congreve's " Love (ot Love "
to Lytton's *' Lady of Lyons." By J. Fitzgerald
Molly. Large post 8vo. io[6.

Royalty Restored; or, London under Charles II.
By J. Fitzgerald Molloy. Two vols., large
crown 8vo. With an Original Etching of Charles
I ., and Eleven other Portraits. 25 1-.

Court Life Below Stairs; or, London Under the
the Four Georges. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy
Two vols., crown 8vo. i2|-.

Eighty-five years of Irish History (1880-85). By
W. J* O'Neill Daunt. Second edition. Two
vols., crown 8vo* necromantic

Spain : a Record of Personal Experiences.
By John Augustus O'Shea. Two vols., crown
8vo. ti\'4

Russia under the Tears. By StBPNiAK. Grown
8vo. 6]-.

NEW Woes OF HISTORY, TRAVEL, Biography,
ka, continued.

The Unpopular King: the Life and Times of

Richard III. By Alfred O. Legge. Two

vols., demy 8vo. With i6 Illustrations. 30I-.
Gladstone's House of Commons. By T. P.

O'Connor, M.P. Demy 8vo. i2|6.
Old Court Life in France. By Mrs. Frances

Elliott. With 20 whole-page Engravings,

Royal 8vo. 7|6.
Oranges and Alligators ; or, Life in south Florida.

By IzA DuFFus Hardy. Second edition. Crown

8vo. japanese

Life, Love, and Legend : A Visit to the
Empire of the Rising Sun, (From the French of
Maurice DuBARD.) By William Conn. Crown
8vo. 7|6.

Recollections of a Country Journalist. By
Thomas Frost. Demy 8vo. i2|6.

Tillotson's Sermons. Selected, Edited, and Annotated
by the Rev. G. W. Weldon, Mea,
Crown 8vo. 7|6.

Robertson of Brighton: With Some Notices
of his Times and Contemporaries. By the Rev.
F. Arnold. Post 8vo. gj-.

Three-cornered Essays. By the Rev. F. Arnold.
Third edition. Crown 8vo. 3J6.

The Life and Letters of George Sand. Edited by
R. Ledos de Beaufort. Three vols., demy 8vo,
With Six Portraits. 36I-.

Fifty Years of a Good Queen's Reign. By A. H.
Wall. Imperial imo. bevelled boards,
gilt edges. 7|6.

Victor Hugo : His Life and Work. By G. Barnett

Smith. Crown 8vo With a Portrait of Hugo.

61-.
The Abbe Liszt: the Story of His Life. By R.

Ledos de Beaufort. With Three Portraits.

tithe

Nev NOVELS.

To 1)8 obtained at all Libraries in Town or Country.

Price 10s. Qd. jeer Volume.

The Tragedy of Featherstone. By B. L. Farjeon.
Three vols.

A Strange Affair. By W. Outran Tristan. Three
vols.

An Enthusiast. By Caroline Fothergill. Three
vols.

Playing with Fire ; a story of the Soudan War.
By James Grant. Three vols.

The Lady Drusilla. By Thomas Parnell. One
vol. 6s.

Found Guilty. By Frank Barrett. Three vols.

Sir James Appleby, Bart. By Katharine S.
Macquoid. Three vols.

The Copper Queen. By Blanche Roosevelt.
Three vols.

A Shadowed Life. By Richard Ashe King (Basil).
Three vols.

Jack and Three Fills. By F. C. Philips. Two

In one Town, By Edmund Downey. Two vols.

Fatal Bonds. By Richard Bowling. Three vols.

Two Pinches of Snuff. By William Stall.
Three vols.

In a Silver Sea. By B. L. Farjeon. Three vols.

At the Red Glove. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
Three vols.

Some Stained Pages. By the Author of'' The New
Mistress." Three vols.

Like Lost Sheep. By Arnold Gray. Three vols.

Lord Vanecourt's Daughter, By Mabel Collins,
Three vols.

Where Tempests Blow. By M. W. Paxton,
Three vols.

From the Silent Past. By Mrs. Herbert Martin,
Two vols.

n the xxs$.

The Dean and His Daughter. By F. C. Philips.
Three vols.

Amor Vinci. By Mrs. Herbert Martin. Two
vols.

Sex to the Last, By Percy Kendall. Three vols,

My Lady Nancy. By " Rite." Three vols.

SIX-SHILLING NOVELS.

-* 

The Master of the Ceremonies. By G. Manville

Penn.
Double Cunning. By G. Manville Penn.
The Lady Drusilla : A Psychological Romance.

By Thomas Parnell.
Tempest Driven, By Richard Bowling.
The Chilcotes. By Leslie Keith.
A Mental Struggle. By the Author of " Phyllis. "
Her Week's Amusement. By the Author of

'' Phyllis,"-

The Aliens. By Henry F. Keenan.
Il Lorimer. By The. Gift.
Louisa. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
A Lucky Young Woman. By F. C. Philips.
As in a Looking Glass. By F. C. Philips.
Social Vicissitudes. By F. C. Philips.
That Villain, Romeo ! By J. Fitzgerald Molloy.
The Sacred Nugget. By B. L. Farjeon.
Proper Pride. By B. M. Croaker.
Pretty Miss Neville. By B. M. Croaker.
The Prettiest Woman in Warsaw. By Mabel
Collins.

Three-and-Sixpenny Novels,

A Life's Mistake. By Mrs. Loveth Cameron.
Anchor Watch Yams. By the Author of ** In One

Town," &c.
Atlas; A Story of the Lost Island. By Mrs. J.

Gregory Smith.
Less than Kin, By J. E. Panton, Author of

Dearer than Life," &c.
A Reigning Favourite. By Annie Thomas (Mrs.

Tender Clip).
The New River; A Romance of the Days of Hugh

Myddelton. By Somerville Gibney.
Under Two Fig Trees. By H. Francis Lester.

With Twenty-one Original Illustrations by A.

Hitchcock.
Comedies from a Country Side. By W. Out ram

Tristan.

Two-shilling Novels.

Great Pointer Square. By B. L. Farjeon.

The House of White Shadows. By B. L. Farjeon.

Grief. By B. L. Farjeon.

Snowbound at Eagle's. By Bred Harte.

The Flower of Doom. By M. Bentham-Edwards.

Viva. By Mrs. Forrester.

A Maiden all Forlorn. By the Author of '' Molly

Sawn."
Folly Morrison. By Frank Barrett.
Honest Davie. By Frank Barrett.
Under St. Paul's. By Richard Downing.
The Duke's Sweetheart. By Richard Dowling.
The Outlaw of Iceland. By Victor Hugo.

SHILLING NOVELS.

Little Ta'psnny. By the Author of '' Mehalah,"
"John Herring," &c. [In the Press.

The Skeleton Key. By Richard Dowling.

The Chaplain's Craze: being the Mystery of
Fenton Friars. By G. Manville Penn.

A House of Tears.

Lady Walworth's Diamonds. By the Author of
*' A Mental Struggle," &c.

Eve at the Wheel. By G. Manville Penn.

A Prince of Darkness: By the Author of ' The

House on the Marsh," &c.

Oliver's Bride. By Mrs. Oliphant.

The Dark House : a Knot unravelled. By Glanville

Penn.

A Deadly Errand. By Max Hillary.
Polka. By B. L. Farjeon.
Eaten Up. By " Eosten."

Other Volumes In Preparation.

BOOKS SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTS OR PRIZES.

Travels in the Interior ; or, the Wonderful Adventures
of Luke and Belinda. By A. T. Schofield,
M.D. Illustrated by Harry Furnish. Handsomely
bound in cloth gilt. through

the Golden Gates; a Fragment of
Thought. By the Author of "The Light on
the Path." White cloth gilt, gilt edges. songs

from the Novelists. Edited and with
Introduction and Notes, by W. Davenport
Adams. Cap. 4to, printed in brown ink on
Dutch hand-made paper. Cloth gilt. 7|5.

Folk and Fairy Tales. By Mrs. Burton Harrison.
With twenty-four original whole-page Engravings
by WalterCrane. Crown 8vo. In handsomely
designed cover, gilt edges. 6]-

The New River; a Story of the Time of Hugh
IMyddelton. Crown 8vo. 3|6.

Japanese Life, Love, and Legend. From the
French of Maurice Dubard by William Conn.
Crown 8vo, handsomely bound. 7|6

Old Court Life in France. By Mrs. Frances
Elliott. With twenty-one original whole-page
Engravings. Royal Svo. 7|6

Fifty Years of a Good Queen's Reign. By A. H.
Wall. Imp. imo. Cloth, bevelled boards,
gilt edges, y\6.

FITZGERALD Molly's
RECENT WORKS.

' Mr. Fitzgerald Molloy has a gift and a charm ivbtch are
peculiarly his own. He is a Voyant, a clairvoyant enjen, from a
literary po nt of vieqv. He sees things  not in toe present but in
the past  so clearly, grasps them so tenaciously, and reproduces
them so vividly, that they come to us without any of the dust and
rust oj time J'  G. J. S. in Echoes of the Week.

Famous Plays : from Congreve's *' Love for Love "
to Lytton's '* Lady of Lyons." With a Discourse
on the Playhouses of the Restoration-large
post 8vo. io|6.

Royalty Restored ; or, London Under Charles II;
two vols., large crown 8vo., with an Original
Etching of Charles IL, and eleven other
portraits. 25I-.

'I've most important historical work yet achieved by its author,
It has remained for picturesque historian to achieve such a
work in its entirety, and to tell a tale as it has never before been
told."  Daily Telegraph.

*' His book, which is the best, may very well be the last on the
subject. . . . The shrewdness, the cynicism, the profound egotism of
the Merry Monarch are dexterously conveyed in this picture of him,
and the book is variously and vividly interesting''  World.

Court Life Below Stairs ; or, London Under
the Georges. Fourth Edition. Two vols. Crown
8vo. I2|-.

Mr. Molloy's style is crisp, and carries the reader along; his
portraits of the famous men and women of the time are etched with
care, and his narrative rises to intensity and dramatic impressiveness
as he follows the latter days of Queen Caroline."  British Quarterly
Review.

That Villain, Romeo. A Novel. Crown 8vo. 6| .

Few society stories possess the merit of " That Villain, Romeo."
The principal charm in Mr. Molloy's novel is the complex and
picturesque study of his heroine. Nothing more piquant and fascinating
was ever painted than Marcus Phillip's model. Mr. Molloy's
weird sketches of Bohemia, and his bright, incisive style will suffice to
ensure the success of his new novel'' -morning Post.

MR. P. C. PHILIPS' RECENT
NOVELS.

The Delia and His Daughter. Three vols.
3i|6.

Jack and Three Fills. A New Novel. Two

vols. 2l|-.

A Lucky Young Woman. With a Frontispiece
by M. Fitzgerald. Crown 8vo. 6|-.

"Mr. Philips' racy humour just suits the jaded palate of the
day."  Times.

We can bestow unstinted praise on the unflagging spirit and
genuine humour with which Mr. Philips tells his story."  Athenaeum.

As in a Looking Glass. With a Frontispiece
by Gordon Browne. Fifth Edition. Crown
8vo. 6[-.

A powerful tragedy, a portfolio of character sketches and a
diorama of society scenes. Its characters are all real and living
personages."  Globe.

It shows abundant cleverness, much knowledge of some
curious phases of life, and a real insight into certain portions of
that mysterious organ, the female heart" 5/. James's Gitzetie.

Social Vicissitudes. Crown 8vo. 6|-.

"The smartest and ntrost amusing set of sketches that has
appeared since Mrs. Linton lashed the Young Woman of the
Period."  St. Stephen's Review.

Mr. B. L. FARJEON S RECENT
NOVELS.

The Tragedy of Featherstone ; three vols. 3i|5.
In a Silver Sea. Second Edition. Three vols.
Crown 8vo. 3i|6.

Those who commence it will become more and more interested,
and be unable to put it down until they've finished. . . . For it is
a quaint, weird, thrilling, mysterious, nightmare work rivetting
attention, and exciting curiosity.  Punch.

The Sacred Nugget. Fourth Edition. Crown
8vo. 6|-.

"The story is so interesting as to force one to turn over the pages
with something like real excitement."  Athenaeum.

Great Porter Square : a Mystery. Fifth Edition.
Crown 8vo. 6|-.

'*A masterpiece of realistic fiction."  "Morning Post.
One of the cleverest and most fascinating stories of the day." 
Society.

The House of White Shadows. Third Edition.
Crown Svo. 6|-.

' A genuine bit of romance powerfully told."  The fVorld.
An ably-written, interesting, even engrossing tale."  Saturday
Review.

Grief: a story of Australian Life. Picture boards. 2|-.

"One of the best stories he has produced, and full of high dramatic
interest."  Scotsman

Polka. Stitched Wrapper i|-.

A gem of truthful, thoughtful, poetical, and powerful writing." 
Morning Advertiser.

Dr. Strauss's Cookery Book.

Dishes & Drinks; or, Philosophy in the Kitchen.
By G. L. M. Strauss. Crown 8vo., cloth.
26.

The most recommendable book on cooler)' that has been published
England tor many long days."  Saturday Rfviezu.

The recipes in the Old Bohemian's ' Philosophy in the Kitchen '
make one's mouth water"'  Graphic.

The Old Bohemian is a cordon bleu among cooks, and a capital
raconteur. His chapter on salads alone is worth the price of the
book."  Lady.

A racy, chatty, and instructive book."  Scotsman.

A remarkable book, cleverly written, full of thought and brimming
over with original suggestions."  British Confectioner.

Excellent recipes, some of which are absolutely new."  
Figaro.

" Will quickly take its place among the culinary standards of Brilliant
Savarin, Letter, Fin-Bee, Tegetmeier, and the no less able, but
more desultory, George Augustus Sala."  Practical Confectioner.

An amusing cookery-book, probably the only one in the language.
To housekeepers who are not above taking valuable hints as to the
preparation of food, to those who look upon eating and drinking as the
chief ends of life, and to all and sundry who like useful information
none the less because it is tightened with genial gossip and spiced
with sparkling anecdotes 'Philosophy in the Kitchen' is a book we
can recommend."  Spectator.

"Sets forth the conclusion with regard to meat and drip of one
who has had many opportunities, and has used them wisely and well.
He is a prophet to whom the dyspeptic may listen on occasion with
with pleasure, and of whom the haughtiest plain cook may learn certain
virtues of practice. His remarks on the distillation of coffee are
such as should be read in every kitchen."  Athenaeum.

Full of useful and sensible advice to cooks and their accomplices;
and receipt after receipt, blended with anecdotes new and old, take
this volume out of the usual run of cookery-books."  Chemist and
Druggist.

U.

i

m

sus

<}

#

sei

3 0112 045844013
