CHAPTER I.

WHAT MR. NETLEY SAID.

LONG, dree journey by that very
unsavoury route to and from the
Continent  Rotterdam and Harwich
 and Jerome Wellfield, on the morning
after his parting from his sister and sweetheart,
found himself in London. He had
nothing to do there  no business in the great
city  no means, no right to take any pleasure
in the same. He made his way from the
Liverpool Street Station to that at Euston
Square, where he found he had some two

hours to wait before the express to Irkford
should start.

Who does not know the dreariness of such
hours of waiting, weary, travel-worn and
alone, in some great wilderness of a city
station ? They were the two most dismal
hours he had ever passed.

At last, at eleven in the forenoon, the train
to Manchester started. Jerome cast himself
into a second-class compartment, and with
weary eyes saw, when he was not half-dozing,
the happy autumn fields' through which the
express rushed smoothly and swiftly, and
with slackened speed at last rolled into that
cheering and inspiriting terminus, the London
Road Station, Manchester.

From Ems  even from Elberthal  to
Manchester ! The contrast just flashed across
his mind as he alighted.

A clerk presently accosted him inquiringly,
- Mr. Wellfield ?' and then gave him a note
which he carried. The note was a kindly,
pleasant one from Mr. Netley, begging him
to go to his house, and make it his headquarters

until his business in Manchester was
settled. Business prevented him from coming
to the station himself and taking his guest
home, but he would be in to dinner at seven.
The address was given, and he hoped his
clerk would bring word that Mr. Wellfield
was on his way to ' Birch Lodge.'

With the sensation that this was true
friendliness, Jerome bade the youth tell Mr.
Netley that he accepted his invitation with
many thanks, and, getting into a cab, gave
the address, and was driven to Mr. Netley's
house  his . ' box,' as he called it in his
note.

For a bachelor's box it was remarkably
roomy and comfortable. The housekeeper
had evidently expected the guest, and led him
upstairs to the room prepared for him. Declining
her offer of refreshments, he was left
alone, with exactly two hours on his hands
before dinner-time. Part of the time he
employed in writing that letter to Sara which
has already been spoken of  the rest in meditations,
not particularly agreeable, on his

1 present condition and future prospects.'
During the few hours he had been in England
he had felt a distinctly stronger chagrin and
disappointment at the idea of the utter loss
of home than he had yet experienced. He
could not understand nor account for this
feeling, but it was there, and it was strong.
He felt a sudden rush of indignation at the
manner in which he had been all these years
cheated and hoodwinked  and that by his
father. This Mr. Bolton, who now reigned
at the Abbey  who and what was he ? The
desire to visit the place once more grew
stronger. Wild schemes for becoming rich,
and having the place back again, ran riot in
his mind  chimerical schemes, for, as each
one rose and fell, he had to tell himself
again and again that each was vanity. In
England  in this part of England especially
the way in which men made fortunes was
that of trade and successful speculation. He
knew absolutely nothing of trade, and had
not the remotest idea in what 'speculation'
consisted. He saw no way at all of becoming

rich. He saw the most probable and the
best fate he could expect rise up and stand
very clearly before his mental eyes  a secretaryship,
clerkship, or something of that kind
neither of them avocations in which, as a
rule, money is very rapidly accumulated.

In the midst of these agreeable meditations
the dinner-bell rang, and he went downstairs
and found his host standing in the hall, looking
out for him  a grey-haired, round-faced,
pink-checked, elderly man, with a bland smile
and an amiable expression.

His appearance for some reason caused
Jerome a kind of shock, he had unconsciously
expected something so different. The climax
of disillusion and commonplace appeared
to have been reached when Mr. Netley,
shaking hands with him and smiling benevolently,
said he was sure Mr. Wellneld
wanted his dinner. With his usual sangfroid,
Jerome, after a momentary pause,
smiled slightly, and said 'Yes,' he was very
hungry. They went into the dining-room,
and here Mr. Netley volunteered the remark

that he thought business had better wait until
after dinner, to which Jerome again yielded
a cordial assent, and they took their places 
Jerome with an ever-deeper suspicion that
somehow Mr. Netley was not  the only word
he could think of was, ' sharp'  that, for a
solicitor of his standing, he was decidedly not
very sharp.

1 Have you ever been in Manchester
before ?' asked Mr. Netley.

1 As a child, I may. Never since I grew
up ; nor, indeed, in any place like it.'

Ah ! it's an odd kind of place. Very
thorough-going  strong political views, you
know.'

1 Yes, I suppose so. Not that I know anything
about politics ; I never took the slightest
interest in them.'

No ? Not been thrown in the way of
that kind of thing, I suppose ?'

'Not at all. All my friends have been
musical, or literary, or artistic people  or,
nothing in particular, like myself.'

I see. Well, there is a section in Man-vol.

1. 14

Chester that goes in for art, and music, and
that kind of thing. We've very fine music
here  concerts, you know  a great many
concerts, in the season.'

Yes, I suppose everyone has heard that
Manchester is a music-loving town.'

1 Exactly so,' said Mr. Netley, looking
cheered at this admission. ' And then there
are literary people too, you know, and
scientific  oh, many scientific people, whom
I don't know much about. And there are
some artists, too. There's a School of Art
there are a great many pupils at the School
of Art, and an exhibition every year of their
paintings.'

Only their paintings ?' inquired Jerome,
politely.

1 Oh, and other people's paintings, of course.
Yes ; and a Black and White Exhibition. Do
you care for black and white pictures ? Have
you been much thrown amongst black and
white artists  I mean artists who do black
and white pictures ?'

1 Not more than amongst artists who do

red, and green, and blue, and other coloured
pictures in general,' replied Jerome, beginning
to feel a little amused, and to realise that probably
Mr. Netley was one of those persons who
have one manner and set of expressions for
business hours, and quite another for those of
leisure.

So it proved. When they went into the
library, and Mr. Netley began to talk on
business, it must have been a very clever man
indeed who could have caught him tripping,
or who could have discovered any want of
perspicacity or acumen in his utterances.

They sat together in the study, with cigars
and coffee-cups before them, and Mr. Netley
had pulled out some papers, and begun to
turn them over, when Jerome, whose impatience
had been none the less keen in that
he had so strenuously concealed it, said :

1 Before you go into details, I wish you
could give me one piece of information.
Will there be anything left ? Will there be
enough just to give my sister a home ? That
is what I am most anxious to know.'

14  2

There will be Monk's Gate, and I think
from a hundred to a hundred and twenty
pounds' income. Curate's pay, Mr. Wellfield,
and a curate might make it do.'

1 You are thinking I am not one. That's
true. But this is a great relief. And Monk's
Gate  what is Monk's Gate ?'

Your father only sold the Abbey, not
Monk's Gate.'

Monk's Gate, I conclude, is a house.
I don't seem to have any remembrance
of it.'

It is the little dower-house belonging to
the Abbey. It is close to the large outer
gate  Monk's Gate they always called it.'
I think I remember.'

The old fellows used to use that gate.
They went out through it into the fields to
fish in the river. They knew what they were
about, those old grey-frocks. Show me an
abbey that was not built on a site at once
fertile, rich, and beautiful. I defy you,
sir.'

1 There was Whitby  it's the only one I

can remember ; but it always struck me as
being rather bleak,' observed Jerome.

'Well, Whitby, I grant you. But that
was a nunnery. Women like to make themselves
uncomfortable for the sake of religion,
or what they think religion. But that's
neither here nor there, and if you are ready,
I'll go a little into detail.'

Jerome absently assented, and Mr. Netley
was privately thinking, with some contempt
:

He's the old W r ell fields all over again.
Let him only be secure of what will keep
him from absolute beggary, and he'll sit down
with it, rather than stir a finger. The only
time at which you could arouse that race to a
transient activity, was when they were absolutely
hard-up. When there wasn't a coin in
the house, they would suddenly drop their
pride, and descend to any expedient to stave
off personal inconvenience and discomfort.
And the most unscrupulous of the whole lot
was this lad's father. This fellow, it strikes
me, has all the pride and all the laziness of

the breed, but not their dishonesty, I should
say. Mother's blood, perhaps.'

Jerome must have been gratified indeed,
could he have known his host's opinion of
him.

There was not very much to be explained.
It seemed that Mr. Wellfield had sold the
Abbey about seven years ago, when Jerome
was nineteen and Avice nine years of age.
Mr. Netley explained about the ways in which
the purchase-money had been invested, and
how the bank failure had come about, which
had brought the crash. He was a little surprised,
and his theory as to Jerome's want
of character was shaken, when the young
man said :

1 It seems to me that in any case, on my
father's death, I should have been reduced to
poverty, for, had the money been remaining,
I should have made it my first object to regain
the Abbey  if I had had to spend every
farthing to do so.'

You would have found it no easy task,
Mr. Wellfield. Mr. Bolton is greatly attached

to the place, and I don't think any price
would tempt him.'

Jerome winced  it was galling in the
extreme to have to hear of this man in possession
with so firm a grasp upon what he
had always regarded as his. He hated the
thought, and once again, stronger than ever,
the desire rushed over him to oust the usurper
from his place. And once again succeeded
the recoil, the miserable sense of poverty and
helplessness, of . impotency, which made his
temples throb and his blood boil. He sat,
with knitted brows, in moody silence, till at
last he asked abruptly :

And this Monk's Gate  is it habitable ?

1 Oh, I should say so. I believe there is
even some antiquated furniture in it.'

1 I shall go over and see it, at any rate,
before I decide upon anything else.'

Very well. The key is in my keeping at
my office. You shall have it. You shall
judge for yourself. Meantime, don't be in
any hurry to leave me. Turn things well
over in your mind before you decide to live

at Monk's Gate, or anywhere else. I will do
all I can to help you forward.'

You are very kind,' said Jerome, still
absently, his mind still vaguely reaching out
after some path from his difficulties.

Before going to sleep, he added a postscript
to his letter to Sara.

1 Netley tells me he thinks there will be a
pittance left, which makes my mind easier
with respect to my sister. Ah, my love, I
never realised till this night, the power' of
money. The want of it makes me feel unscrupulous.'


MONK S GATE.

.T was a glorious afternoon in the
beginning of August, on which
Wellfield left Manchester for his
two hours' journey to Wellfield, to arrive at
which spot he had to pass through some of
the roughest, dirtiest, richest and most prosperous
of the numerous manufacturing towns
of Lancashire.

Burnham was the last of these towns  a
place of great size, great riches, and of an
absolutely stupendous ugliness  a great collection
of ugly, grimy buildings, paved streets,
and ghastly-looking tall chimneys, the whole
planted at the bottom of a hollow which had

once been as fair as valley could be, in the
rough, stony moorland style of sparkling
stream and rugged rock. Even now, when
the veil of smoke permitted one to see them,
high and beautiful hills might be perceived,
blue, calm and eternal. The prospect of
them gave one a longing to ascend them, and
from their summits to breathe an air which
should be free and pure.

After Burnham came one or two little
wayside stations, and then Wellfield. The
railway here ran over a high viaduct, much
raised above the village. Jerome felt his
heart throb as he looked out, and saw below
him on the right, slumbering amid orchard
trees and some fine old elms, some ancient
brown walls, two vast and massive gateways
a broken line which showed where the
cloisters had formerly run beside the river.
That was the Abbey, which, with its grounds,
took up pretty nearly as much space as all
the rest of the village put together. He saw
the calm river gliding by ; then raised his
eyes to where in sturdy pride old Penhull

stretched his great carcase, shutting all in to
the east. It was a fair land  it was a goodly-heritage,
and his heart was bitter within
him.

The train stopped, and he got out and
stood on the platform. He was a stranger
there. No one took the least notice of him.
He found himself at the farther end of the
little platform, and before walking forward to
leave the station, he paused and looked
round him. From the place where he now
stood, the Abbey was not visible. He was
looking in another direction, towards the
north-west. Behind him rose the great wall
of Penhull, over which his ancestors in the
good old days had helped King Jamie to
hunt witches with vigour and malignity.
Before him he saw a more level country,
spreading towards an ancient town called
Clyderhow, with its quaint old castle. Farther
to the west came some other long-backed
fells, on the other side of which was St.
George's Channel : and nearer, on the brow
of one of the said fells, some three miles

away, he saw faintly the grey tower of an
ancient church, and just above that, where
the ground began to rise towards the western
fells, a long, large, imposing building of
whitish stone, exquisitely situated, and from
its commanding position, a landmark for
miles around. This was the great Jesuit
college of Brentwood, which had once
belonged to a branch of the Wellfield family,
in the days when they were great men and
devout Catholics.

Jerome's eyes fell upon it, and with the
sight of it came the remembrance of his
having, years ago, met a certain priest belonging
to that establishment.

1 That was more than seven years ago,' he
reflected, ' before the Abbey had been sold to
this roturier. I must have been a mere
lad then, but how well I remember him !
What was his name ? Somerville, surely.
Yes. Pablo Somerville. I remember. He
was half Spanish  there was some mystery
about his father, I recollect. What
a musician he was  and a gentleman, if

ever there was one. Will it be my luck,
I wonder, to renew the acquaintance ? One
might meet with a worse fate than some
of those fellows at Brentwood have, after all,

for '

'Ticket, sir, please,' said a curt voice at
his elbow. Jerome roused himself, took his
eyes off Brentwood, and went along the
platform, clown a little slanting path, which
brought him into a road. Here he met a
man, and asked him if he knew where Monk's
Gate was.

1 Dun yo mean th' hearse, or th' yate
itself' ?' inquired the man.
I mean the house.'

Well, yo' nun go through th' yate for to
get to th' hearse. Yon's t' shortest road,'
he pointed down a grassy lane with trees on
either side. ' Keep down thur, and then
turn to th' left, and yo' donna miss th' Monk's
Gate, 'cause it straddles o' across th' road,
and yo' nun go under it, and turn in at th'
first gate to your left. Yon's t' Monk's Gate
House. But it's empty, and locked op,' he

added, looking inquiringly at the person who
had an errand to Monk's Gate.

I know. I have the key.'

1 M' happen you belong to 't ?'

It belongs to me,' responded Jerome.
Good-day, and thank you.' With which he
walked on, leaving his interlocutor to stare
after him, scratch his head, and remark to
himself :

Well, I'm don't ! It nun be John
Welled's lad. Eh, but I nun go and tell
'em about this 'ere down at th' Black
Bull'

Jerome, meantime followed the directions
he had received, and soon found the cavern-overlooking
remains of Monk's Gate, ' straddling,'
as his guide had said, ' o' across t'
road,' a huge, grim, ivy-covered portal, showing,
by its distance from the rest of what
were now the Abbey grounds, what a great
and glorious possession this said Abbey had
once been.

A little way on the other side of the archway
to the left, was a gate, leading into a

garden ; there was a gravel drive going upto
a low quaint-looking grey stone house.
This, then, must be Monk's Gate.

It was a wilderness of a garden, with a
large, irregularly shaped lawn, of a velvety
softness and greenness, which neglect had
not yet ruined. In the very centre of this
lawn rose a high, thin old pear-tree. Scattered
about were other kinds of fruit-trees.
Broad borders of all sweet and old-fashioned
flowers were filled with a rank luxuriance of
plants, some blooming, some not yet in
bloom ; others almost choked to death by
their more flourishing neighbours. On the
left of the broad walk was a high wall, and
behind the wall fine beech-trees which cast
the shade of their ample boughs far into the
garden of Monk's Gate. The house itself
stood back ; it looked a small house for such
a large, luxuriant garden. It was very low,
Jerome saw, with odd-looking windows half-hidden
by roses and clematis, while all over
the left side of the house, a flourishing ivy
revelled healthily. He approached nearer.

Just before the house was a great bush of the
Gloire de Dijon rose  the fragrance of its
second crop that year filled the air for yards
around.

Drawing forth the key which Mr. Netley
had given him, he applied it to the door, and
its rattle in the lock was the first sound to
break the almost oppressive hush and stillness,
and deadly calm of everything around
and about. The lock turned somewhat
rustily and unwillingly. It required him to
exert the strength of both his hands to induce
it entirely to yield. Then he pushed the door
open, stepped in, and stood beneath all that
he could now call his own roof-tree. A
narrow passage  a door to the left, which he
passed ; the passage was only a few feet
long ; one stepped out of it, without door or
other intervening ceremony, into a large, low,
raftered room, with a high old wooden
chimney-piece, deep oaken cupboards sunk
in the walls, a long, very low window, with a
deep, roomy seat in it  a heavy oaken table
in the centre of the room, and, at one side,

an ancient, shabby, comfortable-looking settee.
In a remote corner there was a pile of old
furniture, which in its dirt and shabbiness
looked remarkably like lumber.

Jerome gazed round the room. Despite
the age and decrepitude of all in it, it had a
certain attraction for him, from its quaint, unconventional
shape and arrangements. The
stairs, with old oaken rails and balustrade,
led straight out of it. A door which he
opened, showed him a roomy kitchen, with a
back-kitchen beyond. Turning back, he
opened the door to the left of the passage,
which he had not yet explored, and found a
second sitting-room, smaller than the first,
but just as quaint, low and irregular. This
room, too, had the agreeable peculiarity of a
corner fireplace, and it contained more furniture
than the other ; very old drawing-room
furniture  thin-legged chairs and tables, and
a strange-looking thing which was at once
cupboard, cabinet, and press, to match the
rest of the furniture, which was mahogany.
The aforesaid thin-legged chairs were up-vol.

1. 15

fostered in a sickly, faded drab damask 
relic of a bygone day. The whole place
looked like some grave, and yet a grave
about which lingered gentle memories, like a
soft perfume ; recollections of old-fashioned
ladies who must have spent countless hours
at their tambour-frames, embroidering those
elaborate and now pale and faded semblances
of pink-checked shepherds and blue-eyed
shepherdesses which adorned some spindly-looking
stools and spider-legged ' occasional *
chairs. Whose slender fingers had accomplished
that triumph of worsted-work which
covered a large settee beneath one of the two
little deep square windows  a piece of
worsted-work with a whole picture upon it,
of an elaborate landscape ; figures, fountains,
sheep, and marble vases ?

Jerome passed his hand across his eyes,
feeling as if he had lost his identity. Was it
could it be he, Jerome Wellneld, who was
standing in this chill, pale, silent place, inhaling
the faint, musty, dusty smell, which
carries one back full a hundred years ; and

was this dim old place his home  all the
home he now had ? He tried to picture
Avice there, and succeeded. It would be no
inappropriate place for her, he felt, when fires
should have dried up all the damp, and when
all this faded furniture should have been pulled
forth, cleaned, and polished, and arranged.
And Sara ? Try as he would, he failed to
see her there. And yet, he knew that should
he ask her to come, she would do so.

He climbed the stairs, and found several
bedrooms, corresponding with the rooms
below  all with the same raftered roofs, and
odd little square windows, made almost dark,
too, by the overhanging trailing-plants which
covered the side of the house.

He lingered long, unaccountably attracted
and fascinated. In such a quiet nook a man
might drone out his life, and soon be utterly
forgotten  might live on from year to year,
and watch the seasons come and go, the
flowers bloom and fade, and spring again ;
might observe the sunlight and the storm-shadows
sweep across the broad sides of

152

Penhull, and might at last die and be carried
to the graveyard which spread around the
old church  might there be laid to his rest,
and none be the wiser.

He shivered slightly, as he vividly pictured
all this ; then, slowly descending the
stairs, went out  how hot and balmy the
outside air felt, after the dampness of the
house !  locked the door behind him, and
bent his steps towards the Abbey.

THE NEW MAN AND THE OLD ACRES.

ELLFIELD had only a very short
distance to walk before he came to
another great cavernous archway,
the 'Abbot's Gate,' and the second principal
entrance to the Abbey. Great beech-trees
clustered around it. It was quite dark and
cool and gloomy, but a little door in the great
wooden gates stood open, and gave him a
curious little oblong glimpse into a sunny
courtyard, where everything stood still and
hot and quiet, and in which, as he stepped
into it, there was not a sign of life. One
side of the Abbey building, what was left of
it, faced him ; the windows looked into this

paved court, and appeared to be windows of
offices, kitchens, etc. Green tubs, filled with
a blaze of scarlet geraniums, made brilliant
spots of colour here and there. To the left
was a high wall, and a fine old stone archway.
He knew the way well. Through that archway
he must pass to go round to the front
entrance of the house, which was chiefly composed
of what had once been the private
apartments of the abbots of Wellfield. He
glanced up at the top of the archway and
saw, on the oblong slab which was let into it,
the legend, 'J. W., 15  .' It stood for John
Wellfield, as he knew ; the said John having
been the first Wellfield who had taken up his
abode in the Abbey, after its demolishment
under the glorious dispensation of
Henry VIII.

1 My initials !' murmured Jerome. ' I
wonder this man has not rent out the stone,
and inscribed his own instead

This was rather a bitter thought, and, with
his mind full of it, he passed under the archway,
and found himself in a grand old garden

such a garden as those ancient monks
knew how to make ; and a garden which,
since their time, had been lovingly kept up.
It was formal  all laid out in oblongs and
squares, but it had an indescribable beauty
and grace. Great trees took away from the
stiffness ; brilliant flowers and intensely green
grass made it gay. Under the trees to the
right were some clumps of tall, fiery-looking
gladioli. Straight before the house the ground
sloped to the river, beside which was a long
grassy walk and avenue, and a little farther to
the right, still beside the river, the hoary
cloisters. Jerome's heart was exceeding
bitter within him, as he saw and realised all
the beauty of the place, which came back to
him, after sixteen years, with a familiarity
which was startling. The sixteen years were
'but ' as yesterday.' As he stood there, he
felt it his  his own ; the effort to conceive of
it as belonging to some one else was a painful
one  one which did not altogether succeed.

1 He sold it !' he was thinking to himself.
1 Sold it in cold blood. Why, if he had told

us the truth, and kept it, he should have been
happy ; we would have made him happy here,
let our poverty have been what it might.'

He walked up the round space of smoothly-rolled
gravel before the deep entrance-door,,
and rang the bell.

Mr. Bolton, he was told, was at home.
Jerome sent in his card, and was shown into
a room which he well remembered. It had
formerly been the library, and appeared to
be still used for the same purpose, though
greatly changed from its old condition. It
was not very vulgar, indeed one might
almost have pronounced it not at all vulgar ;
but all the things were comparatively new,
and evidently 'of the very best.' But the
furniture was well chosen and appropriate;
had Mr. Bolton or had his upholsterer chosen
it ? Jerome wondered, in a parenthesis as he
looked around, and felt that the appearance
of the room displayed a desire at least, if nota
perfectly accomplished one, on the part of
those who owned it, to be tasteful  a desire
which he felt had resulted in being proper

and philistine. He glanced at some books
on the table, and at one or two in the bookshelves,
and was struck at finding them to be
nearly all confined to two classes  voyages
and travels, and Italian books, the latter almost
all bearing some reference to Dante, or to
Dante's great poem.

Odd !' thought Jerome, and as he thought
it, the door was opened, and Mr. Bolton
entered.

A man of medium height, and of moderate
proportions, with a round, obstinate-looking
head, dark complexion, brown eyes, a mouth
with a protruding under-lip, and an all-pervading
expression of shrewdness, and strong,
powerful common-sense. A prejudiced, onesided
man, one would suppose, but a man
who required a considerable mental space in
which to display his onesidedness and prejudice
 a man with great faults, and great
virtues, possibly ; with a bull-dog expression,
betokening tenacity of mind  what this man
once grasped, he would not easily let loose
again.

Jerome felt the last fact strongly, if he did
not understand, as indeed he could not possibly
do, the other characteristics. There was
nothing handsome about Mr. Bolton ; very
little to be praised in his manner, no grace in
his gestures ; but there was a certain rough
dignity about him, which was even imposing.
He was a commanding spirit, if not an enlightened
one.

'Mr. Wellfield, I think?' he said, fixing
his deep-set, dark eyes upon Wellfield's face,
but not betraying, by either look or expression,
that he was particularly struck in anyway
by his visitor.

1 Yes said Jerome, bowing ; ' I presume
you are Mr. Bolton ?'

The same. Will you not be seated ?'

Jerome had been standing in one of the
windows. At Mr. Bolton's suggestion he
took a chair, and a feeling curiously akin to
mortification began to steal over him. Mr.
Bolton was so very evidently the master-spirit
here. Wellfield felt himself so entirely reduced
to the level of a stranger  a mere

j

casual caller, in his old home, that at first he
could hardly speak.

How was he to introduce himself? How
account for his presence there, for he had
come in his usual half-dreaming manner : with
no set aim or purpose  no clear and tangible
excuse ; driven only by a longing to see the
place, and by a half-acknowledged feeling of
defiant unwillingness to be deterred by this
stranger from stepping into the house which
he persistently looked upon as 'his by right.'
It has been said that when the elder Wellfield
sent his son into the world, he had not overburdened
him with moral maxims for his
guidance. Jerome had been left to decide
upon his own ethical code  a plan which has
its. snares and pitfalls as well as its advantages.
Mr. Bolton's calm presence of mind, and his
evident ease and pleasure in his surroundings,
caused a strange pang to Wellfield, and roused
a feeling of resentment at once unreasonable
and ridiculous. And yet, he felt, he must
be courtesy itself, or all his own feelings
and ideas as to what was his due would not

prevent the usurper from somewhat unceremoniously
casting him forth.

You may think this a strange intrusion on
my part,' he began, on the spur of the
moment. ' Indeed, I begin to think myself
that it is.'

As to that, I can say nothing, Mr. Well-field,
until I hear your errand. In the meantime,
I do not think it strange at all that
you should call at the Abbey if you were in
this neighbourhood.'

You have no doubt heard of my father's
death ?'

I have, and indirectly, of his losses 
which, I suppose, will be your losses. I
was sorry to learn about them.'

Jerome bowed slightly. 'It is in consequence
of those losses that I am here. I
learnt from Mr. Netley, my solicitor, that the
Monk's Gate house still belongs to me, and I
came over here to see if it could be made
habitable. I could not resist coming on to seethe
old place of all  trusting to your kindness
to allow me to stroll round once or twice.'

One can hardly call such a visit a strange
intrusion,' observed Mr. Bolton, and Jerome
had remarked that though his voice was curt,
and his accent provincial, yet that his language
was proper, and even pedantic sometimes,
and his grammar unimpeachable.

You are at liberty to " stroll round," as
you call it, as much as you please. I don't
pretend not to know that such an excursion
must be painful to you  if you ever cared for
the place  and from your making this visit,
I conclude you did.'

I did, and do,' answered Wellfield.

1 Then, though it may not be agreeable
to you to know it in the possession of
other people, you will not be sorry to find
that it is as well-cared for as if it were
your own.'

Jerome was not sorry, but he felt galled,
deeply galled, to have to realise so completely
how impotent he was in the matter  how this
man had the power, not only to keep everything
trim, but to alter and change, and upset
everything, if it so pleased him.

1 I am glad to know that,' he said, and Mr.
Bolton went on.

May I ask if you intend to settle at Well-field
? Do you mean to live at Monk's
Gate r

So far as I can see at present, I do,' said
Jerome, who, as a matter of fact, had only
begun to think such a thing advisable, since
he had seen Monk's Gate. * But I do not
know. Mr. Netley gives me to understand
that my sister and I will have something to
live upon. I shall, however, seek employment,
which it is not always an easy
matter to find. Until I do find it, I shall
probably live at Monk's Gate.'

Mr. Bolton bowed his head. ' Do you
think of staying here long, now ?' he
asked.

I came without any definite intention, for
I did not know what sort of a place Monk's
Gate was. Now I think I shall go to the
inn here, if there is one, and stay perhaps a
day or two, until I get things in order. And
-  they tell me Burnham is a very large town,

and that trade there is now very good.
Perhaps '

Ah, you are thinking you might happen
to find some employment there. It is possible.
But pray do not think of putting up at the
inn while there is room at the Abbey.
We shall be glad if you will stay with us, as
long as you find it convenient.'

Who may we be ?' wondered Jerome, ashe
hesitated. There was not much cordiality
in the invitation, but a sedate sincerity, as if
Mr. Bolton performed a duty which might
have been pleasant, and might also have
been more unpleasant. One thing was quite
certain. Whether he would be glad or
not to have Wellfield at his own home, he
would be very sorry to see him at the inn.
He saw the hesitation, and repeated his invitation,
this time more cordially.

You are very kind,' said Wellfield. ' It
looks so very much as if I had come on

purpose

I do not know why you came, I am sure,
but I trust you will stay with us. Since you

are so near Burnham, it would be foolish to
go back to Manchester without at least
making an effort to seek some employment
there. And there is no one in the world
who knows so much about Burnham as I
do.'

Jerome thanked him, and accepted the invitation.
Mr. Bolton rose.

That is settled,' he remarked. ' Come
into the garden, and we'll find Nata there.'

'Who is Nata ?' again speculated Wellfield,
and he followed his host without a word.

Mr. Bolton took his way through the
garden towards the avenue by the river,
which was called 'the river walk.' As they
entered this walk, Jerome perceived in the
distance an arrangement of chairs and a
table, some light shawls, books, parasols, and
two female figures, seated in low cane chairs,
under the trees. Both these ladies were
reading, and apparently engrossed in their
books. The footsteps of the men along
the soft grass made no sound, and neither
lady looked up until Mr. Bolton, in a voice

from which all hardness and abruptness appeared
to have melted suddenly, said :

'Nata!'

Then both the parasols were lowered, and
Jerome saw that a very young lady, and a
decidedly elderly one, sat side by side
beneath the trees. The young lady looked
first at both of them, then at Wellfield in
particular, and as she slowly rose, with a
faint, half-smile, her face seemed all large
brown eyes. As he came nearer, he saw
that she had, too, a beautiful forehead, broad,
and rather low ; red lips which looked as if
they would readily smile, and pale cheeks.
He saw that she only just attained medium
height ; that she was slight, yet not thin in
figure, and graceful, in a certain quaint, picturesque,
unconventional style  a great contrast
to the stiff, upright, elderly figure
beside her, with a grey keen face, compressed
lips, and piercing, cold grey eyes.
The second lady made no attempt at rising.
She sat perfectly still, and bolt upright,
folded her listened hands one over the other

vol. 1. 16

upon her book, and looked at Jerome
Wellfield in a manner which he felt to be
pointed.

Nata,' repeated Mr. Bolton, ' I've brought
you a visitor ; Mr. Jerome Wellfield, who
will stay with us a short time. My daughter,
Mr. Wellfield, and my cousin, Miss Margaret
Shuttleworth.'

Nata Bolton smiled, shook hands with the
guest, and said, ' How do you do ?'

Miss Shuttleworth stiffly inclined her head,
but did not make any overtures towards
shaking hands.

Will you not sit down, Mr. Wellfield ?'
said Nata, pointing to a chair, which he took,
and she went on :

1 Have you just arrived in Wellfield ?'

1 I arrived about an hour and a half ago.
I have been looking at my house  Monk's
Gate.'

Oh, have you ? It is a pretty little
house.'

Very. So humble and unobtrusive-looking,'
said Jerome.

And damp,' observed Miss Shuttle worth ;
and though she did not speak loudly, she
spoke in a manner which made it impossible to
ignore her remarks. Indeed, whenever Miss
Shuttleworth spoke, an impartial observer
must have said that she put a portentous
amount of expression into her utterances.

You think it is damp ?' said Jerome,
politely turning to her, while Nata's colour
rose, and her ringers trifled nervously with
her watch-chain.

I know it to be damp,' responded Miss
Shuttleworth, in a manner which Jerome,
unaccustomed to her as he was, felt imperatively
called for a reply, or another question
of some kind.

So damp as to make it unadvisable to live
there ?' he inquired.

I should say it was a most unhealthy
house to live in. If you wish to become
rheumatic at once, and to grow old before
your years, by all means live at Monk's
Gate

As it is all the home I now possess,' rec

 2

spondee Jerome, ' it is probable that I shall
live there, despite the disadvantages you
mention.'

1 All the home you possess ?' repeated
Nata, and Jerome turned to her with a sense
of pleasure in the contrast between her and
her relative.

Miss Shuttle worth absolutely revolted him
with her plainness, her hard features, her
metallic voice, and her engaging manner.
In comparison, Nata, though not a beauty,
looked charming. He met her soft brown
eyes with pleasure, and saw the slight shyness,
the little air of timidity and shrinking,
with feelings of complacency. At this juncture
Mr. Bolton rose, remarking :

'Well, I'll leave Mr. Wellfield to you to
entertain. I have some writing to do. I
suppose I shall see you at supper, Margaret
?'

Not to-night, thank you. I have my
Bible class, and shall have to go in about an
hour.'

Oh, well, come tomorrow, or as often as

you can, at any rate,' he answered ; and with
a general inclination of the head to the company,
he departed.

Jerome looked after him, as he went down
the river walk, and realised that the whole
figure, though plebeian, was powerful, not
without a certain air, too, of dignity and command.
He turned to Nata again.

Mr. Bolton has very kindly asked me to
stay a few days at the Abbey, until I have
decided what to do with Monk's Gate, or
rather until I see whether I can find some
employment, which will allow me to live at
Monk's Gate, as I hope to do.'

Yes,' said Nata, with a look of embarrassment
; ' but  but  I suppose I ought not to
say it '

If it is a personal question, Nata, to a
total stranger, you ought certainly not to say
it,' here chimed in Miss Shuttleworth's
voice.

Nata blushed furiously, and Jerome said,
more in the hope of annoying Miss Shuttle-worth
than from any other reason :

\ I am sure it is no question that is
not perfectly justifiable, Miss Bolton, and
therefore I promise in advance to answer
it.'

It was not exactly a question. You speak
of Monk's Gate as your only home, and of
seeking employment ; but I thought you were
rich, Mr. Wellneld.'

So did I, until a short time ago. I am
just now in the process of learning completely
to realise my mistake. I am a poor man,
and am not quite certain that the wreck of
my fortunes will leave me enough to enable
me to bring my sister to Monk's Gate, and
make her a home there.'

Have you a sister ?' asked Nata, who kept
giving him very rapid, momentary glances,
her eyes leaving his face almost before they
had had time to find it, which glances he met
with a calm, prolonged gaze, which did
not escape the steely eyes of Miss Shuttle-worth.


I have a sister  yes.'

Is she with you ?'

No ; she is at Elberthal, in Germany,
with a friend.'

4 How old is she ?'

Sixteen.'

Is she pretty ?'

4 She is considered beautiful, I believe.'


1 Like you at all ?' inquired Miss Shuttle-worth,
with a treacherous suavity in her
tones.

Jerome burst out laughing, and Nata
blushed fiercely.

1 Oh, aunt, how uncomfortable you make
me !' she exclaimed vehemently.

Miss Shuttleworth made no reply, then
Nata went on :

1 I hope it is not rude of me, but are you
and your sister alone in the world ?'

1 We are, quite.'

And very fond of one another ?'

1 Y yes.'

4 That is, your sister is very fond of you,'
remarked Miss Shuttleworth.

4 I hope she is, and that she may never

have cause to be otherwise he replied
politely.

1 It is very interesting !' said Nata, with a
little sigh, while Jerome thought, repressing
a smile, what an amusing story it would make
for Sara and Avice.

1 What is your sister's name ?' next asked
Nata.

1 Avice.'

Avice? What a peculiar name.'

It means " refuge," ' observed MissShut-
tamworth.

Oh, does it ?' said Jerome, ' I didn't know
that.'

Do you think you will like living in
England ?' pursued Nata.

No, I don't, under the circumstances.'

She shook her head, and maintained
silence. Miss Shuttleworth rose from her
chair.

I must go,' she remarked. ' And do you
go in too, Nata, soon. The damp rises from
the river in the evening, and you have a
thin dress on.'

I shall not be long.'

' I am going to take this book with me, It
Is a very clever story. Where did you
get it ?'

John brought it me from London. I
haven't read it. I saw a review of it

in the , which made me think it was

stupid.'

Miss Shuttleworth's lips relaxed into a
smile which was sardonic. This was a topic
on which she evidently felt strongly.

Why do you and John and your father
persist in reading reviews ?' she asked, with
asperity. ' The book stupid ?  as likely as
not it was the reviewer who was stupid.
/ know them. It is a very clever book,
but of course if you read that review of
it, it would spoil it for you. I do wish I
could cure you of reading reviews. It spoils
one's pleasure so, and does not the least
good.'

I'll try to give it up,' said Nata, meekly.
Shall we go with you to the great gate ?
Mr. Wellfield, would you like to come ?'

Jerome accompanied the two ladies to the
great gate. Then Nata thought she would
walk on with Miss Shuttle worth to her house,
and Jerome thought he would stroll round
the grounds. Nata told him that they supped
at half-past eight, and she disappeared with
Miss Shuttleworth through the gate. Jerome
wandered back along the river walk, and
through the old gardens, and strolled and
loitered amongst the trees. Presently the
sun declined, and gorgeous hues of purple
and gold and crimson set the western sky
ablaze, and coloured the water of the river
with changing tints. The trees waved softly
overhead  the water murmured placidly as it
rolled by. All was still and quiet, and he
tried to realise that he was here  a stranger.
It was all so familiar as to be almost weirdly
so. These strange faces, strange owners,
jarred upon him. He could not understand
how they came to be so at home there  so at
ease in his home. As for him  when he
should have supplied Monk's Gate with a
little furniture, just enough to make it habitable,

and established Avice here, his ready-cash
would be almost exhausted, and then
what was to become of him ? The pittance
not certain, but probable  of which Mr.
Netley had spoken, remained. He could not
live upon that  he might die upon it, starve
upon it, go mad upon it ; he could not live
upon it  as a man with his ideas, his
hopes, his inborn, inbred habits and feelings,
understands life, even in its narrowest
sense.

After a long time spent in such meditations
 meditations which dimmed the beauty
of the sunset, and marred the evening's glory,
he looked up, and found that the pomp of
the Sonnenuntergang was over ; the purple and
gold had disappeared ; the sky was grey
again. It must be supper-time. He bent
his steps towards the house.

Entering the hall he saw Nata going across
it, with a large crystal bowl of flowers in her
hand. She had on a black flowing dress
of something soft and gauzy, with knots
of brightly-hued ribbons here and there.

Whether by design or by accident, she had
greatly improved her appearance, and looked
as nearly pretty as it was possible for her to
be ; but the air of delicacy and a slight
languor, speaking of a constitution not of
the strongest kind, prevented her from being
really beautiful. But she was agreeable, even
attractive to look at, and had quaint original
little ways which gave a charm to her. It
she did not move with the air of a great
lady, nor shine with the noble beauty of Sara
Ford, she was yet not without her charm, as
Jerome felt, when she paused, balancing the
vase in her hands, looking up at him and
smiling.

You have had a long stroll, Mr. Wellfield,
and I am sure you will be tired. William,'
she added, to a page-boy who then appeared
upon the scene, ' show Mr. Wellfield to the
blue-room, and send Mary to see that he has
all he wants.'

When Jerome came down again, the same
boy appeared, and invited him into the
drawing-room. How well he remembered

it as he had last seen it, and how great was
the contrast between the dim old room of
sixteen years ago and the luxurious one of
to-day, furnished in the richest and most
approved style, with gorgeously decorated
ceiling, and every kind of ' upholsterer's
darling' in the shape of easy-chairs, couches
and lounges, scattered about !

Nata was there with her work, and Mr.
Bolton with the newspapers, and a third
person, a young man whose face, as Jerome
looked at him, brought back the past with a
vividness, with a rush, as it were, which more
than ever carried him backwards, and made
the immediate past seem like a dream in the
light of sixteen years ago.

John Leyburn, if I am in my right mind !'
he exclaimed, for him almost eagerly.

1 I think you may safely assume that your
judgment does not misguide you.'

Though you do say that the evidence
of your own senses is the last thing you
would believe, John,' observed Nata, with
asperity.

John laughed, as he shook hands with
Wellfield.

Not the last thing I would believe, but
the first thing I would distrust, if I had
grounds for doubting about anything,' he
answered.

1 And how have you been going on ?' asked
Jerome, after the usual fashion of one man
to another. To which Leyburn replied
modestly :

< Oh, fairly well.'

1 Fairly well, indeed !' retorted Nata. ' You
have got on very well indeed, John. My
cousin has got a big house and a big mill, and
a huge business, all to himself, Mr. Wellfield.
And he calls that getting on "fairly well." 1

1 And you ?' asked Leyburn.

1 1  very ill, as no doubt you have heard.
But that doesn't matter. I am glad to see
you again. Do you live at Abbot's Knoll
yet ? Do you remember coming down hereto
do Latin with my tutor, Phillips ? What
an age it seems since then !'

1 I remember,' said John, deliberately.

He was a young man who could not be
called handsome ; beside Wellfield he looked
exceedingly plain, with his square-cut, rather
heavy face, and decidedly clumsy figure. Yet
about this young manufacturer, with his want
of grace and polish, there was the charm of a
candid, benevolent, truth-loving nature, which
charm showed in the clear, pleasant light-brown
eyes, which redeemed him from insignificance,
and made him an agreeable companion.
He was quiet, decidedly. Jerome
remembered that in the old days when they
had both been children together, he had
been, not shy, but a silent, reserved, observant
boy, with decided likes and dislikes.
By-and-by, Leyburn went and sat down
beside Nata on the sofa. They appeared to
be on squabbling terms, which naturally implies
intimacy. Mr. Bolton looked benevolently
at them over his newspaper, and
Jerome, with a sudden sense which was not
altogether a pleasurable one, began to wonder
if this were ' a case.' No, he did not like the
idea  why, he hardly knew, since it could not

possibly matter anything to him ; but it
seemed to shut him more entirely than ever
out from all that should have been his. With
rapid, unreasonable foresight, he pictured
Nata and her cousin man and wife, in safe
and secure possession of the Abbey and its
lands, with perhaps children to inherit them,
and money in abundance to keep it all up.
The idea galled and hurt him excessively,
and he sat silently, and somewhat moodily
pondering upon it until supper was announced.


It appeared that early hours were the rule
at the Abbey. After supper, Mr. Bolton retired
to one end of the huge drawing-room to
a table on which stood a reading-lamp, and
he was soon lost in a book of travels in the
South Seas. Nata and the two young men
were left to entertain one another as they
chose. Jerome was somewhat taciturn, observing
the incessant conversation, friendly
squabbles and unmistakable real liking
between Nata Bolton and John Leyburn.
About ten o'clock Leyburn said good-night.

By half-past ten all the household were in
their rooms. Jerome opened his window and
looked out. The same moon, only fuller, as
that which had lighted his meditations in

o

Manchester, shone here, and silvered the old
Abbey gardens, and the ancient walks, and
the motionless trees. His heart was sore as
heart could be. These people were not
what he had expected, and perhaps that
added to the sting of his vexation. They
were not purse-proud, vulgar upstarts. They
were plain and homely, but gentle and
gracious. It was not some vulgar man who
held and who would inherit his patrimony ;
it was a man whose whole character and
aspect compelled respect and even admiration,
and a girl in whose eyes dwelt gentleness
and goodness, and whose ways were all
kind and womanly and girlish. He pondered
over it all, and looked again upon the beauty
of it, and muttered to himself :

1 Mine by right  mine before God ! and it
shall be mine again, too.'

vol. 1. 17

NITAS DIARY.

N her room at the same hour sat
Nata Bolton : the door locked, the
lamp lighted. She was attired ina
flowing dressing-gown, her hair falling in
two long, thick plaits over her shoulders.
Nata had beautiful hair  beautiful, that is, in
quality, if not remarkable in colour. It was
of a dull, soft brown, without the suspicion of
a tawny hue in it, or of a glint of gold, but it
was slightly wavy, fine, soft, and abundant,
and she had a harmless pride and pleasure
in it.

She was seated just now at a very elegant-looking
writing-table, an article of furniture

which had so far been also distinctly an
article of luxury, for Nata's letters were very,
very few. It was not a letter with which she
was this night engaged. No ! Open before
her was a substantially-bound volume, with a
Chubb's lock, and a little key to open and
close the same  a precaution which lost
some of its value when one considers how
easy it would have been for an evil-disposed
person to carry off the book, lock and all, if
he wished to pry into the sacred contents
thereof. In this precious volume Miss
Bolton was in the habit of inscribing her day's
adventures, or no-adventures, and her own
valuable comments and reflections thereupon,
together with dark and gloomy musings upon
the sorrows and misfortunes of this present
life ; the strange and inexplicable arrangements
of Destiny (with a capital D), and a
chronicle of her mental experiences in
general. Many pages of such lucubrations
filled the earlier portion of the volume.

To-night Anita's pen had not run with its
accustomed rapidity over the page. She had

17  2

recorded how ' John returned from London
yesterday morning, and came in in the evening
and brought me some novels, because he
said he knew I cared for nothing else, which
was mean of the dear old fellow.' How
1 Aunt Margery came to dinner, and sat with
me all afternoon, and was very amusing.
What a clever old thing she is !' How,
about six o'clock, I heard papa's voice, and
looked up, wondering what had dragged him
away from his beloved Dante, at that hour,
and I saw him coming along with a gentleman,
a stranger, the very handsomest man I
ever saw.' Then followed a minute description
of the introduction, of every word that
Jerome had said, that Aunt Margery and
papa had said, that \ I ' had said, and in addition,
what ' I ' thought on the subject: To
her diary Nata might betray, and did betray
what she would conceal from all others, the
fact that from the moment in which she had
looked up and met Jerome's eyes, she had
been fascinated, spell-bound, possessed with
the thought of him.

Much unpublished as well as published
rubbish is written every year, and Nata
Bolton's journal was not an exception to the
rule that most young ladies' journals are not
worth the time that is spent upon them.
Her cousin John having discovered once by
accident that Nata kept a journal, had ever
since oppressed her at intervals with cruel
remarks upon it, questions as to what she
had written about, insinuating inquiries, ' Did
you mention how agreeable I made myself
the other night ?' and so on.

Mr. Bolton had laughed a little when he
heard about it, and had said :

1 She's dull. Girls must have some outlet
for their feelings. It's better to sentimentalise
in a diary than with a curate. I'd rather
she sat up late scribbling, than rose at cockcrow
to get cold at " early celebrations," and
all that rubbish  eh, Jack ?'

To which ' Jack ' always and devoutly
yielded his assent.

Nata, on this particular occasion, had more
and darker reflections to make than usual,

upon the dark and tortuous ways of ' Destiny.'
Such effusions might be the result of
a mere surface feeling, or they might be the
indications of some deeper, more tragic
emotion. Who was to say ? Nata herself
less than anyone.

I never,' she wrote, ' never before saw, or
imagined anyone in the least like him. It
was like seeing a new kind of creature.'

Then there was a long pause, as she laid
her pen down, folded her hands, and pondered.
Then she took up her pen again and
wrote :

1 He may well look sad and melancholy,
and gaze sorrowfully on the scene around
him. He may well look long and gravely at
me when he speaks to me. Only quite a
short time ago, he supposed himself the heir
to all this place, and now he is dispossessed,
and it is / who shall sometime have it !
What romances there are in the world, far
wilder romances than one reads of in books.
How will it all end ? What hand has
brought us together in this strange manner 

I and he, of all persons in the world ? This
is indeed one of those dark mazes of life
through which one must wander on trust 
one can know nothing.'

Having written thus far, Nata carefully
read over the chronicle, closed and locked
the book, and put it away. Then, starting
with a sudden movement, she ran to the
window, opened it and leaned out, looking
forth upon the moonlight. To a romantic
mind and one given to sentimental musings,
Wellfield Abbey must have been provocative
of much moon-gazing and many reveries.
Nata Bolton was romantic, was sentimental,
in no small degree, though these qualities
had been well kept in check by the healthy
and natural though quiet life which she had
lived, and by the perpetual shafts of satire
directed against all sentiment by her three
associates  her father, her Aunt Margery,
and her cousin, John Leyburn. But the
tendency to weaving romance out of her
surroundings, if they would by any means
allow it, was there, powerful, though dormant.

The fire smouldered. It needed but a spark
to kindle it. The sudden appearance of
Jerome Wellfield supplied that spark. Nata's
innate love of sentiment and romance was
aroused. It appeared as if life suddenly contained
a new, fresh interest. It was long
before the girl undressed, and then it was
long before she slept. At last slumber came,
and dreams in which Wellfield had no part.

WITH THE STREAM.

Morning again  a hazy, glorious

August morning. When Welles
o

field threw open his window, a
draught of air scented with everything that
is sweetest and most exquisite was borne
into the room. The heavy trees outside
stood motionless ; the dazzling spikes of gladiolus,
and the parterres of geraniums looked
dim in the morning mist which still hung
white and palpable over the course of the
river. Each day that Jerome passed here
was fairer than the last ; each morning and
each evening made more palpable to him
what a goodly heritage had departed from

him, and fallen to the lot of others. This
may have influenced his course : who shall
say what and where is the first springing
of that current which, slight at first, presently
grows so strong as to sway our actions and
decide our ' will ' to some particular course ?

On going downstairs, he found the 
spread, and Mr. Bolton seated at it.
Nata was standing in the window, the newspaper
in one hand, while the other caressed
the head of her great dun-coloured mastiff,
Speedwell  another dear friend who, like
nature, ' never would betray the heart that
loved' him. Mr. Bolton made a measured
apology for beginning his breakfast, adding
that he had to go to Burnham by the nine
o'clock train, but would be in to dinner in the
middle of the day, and he hoped Mr. Well-field
would do just what was agreeable to
him, and Nata would do her best to entertain
him.

With which Nata also advanced, looking
rather pale, but also almost pretty. She laid
down the paper, remarking :

There's nothing in it, papa. The market
is up, and there is a leading article absolutely
annihilating the Opposition, so let that content
you until this evening.'

I suppose it must said he, rising ; and
wishing them good-morning, he departed.

Nata, when breakfast was over, proposed a
tour round the garden, she had some orders
to give the gardener, and must go to the
farm, or perhaps he would prefer to stay
indoors.

I should prefer to go with you if I
may,' he said ; and they strolled out together.

Nata appeared quite at home outside the
house. During their progress round the
garden Jerome grew more interested in her,
and with him, to be interested in a woman
was to do his utmost to make himself interesting
to her. Nata was not aware of this
idiosyncrasy ; and a man cannot say to a
woman, ' Do not make yourself interesting tome,
or I shall try in turn to captivate you.'
The rules of etiquette do not allow such a
statement, but when a man's heart is given in

one direction, he may intimate that fact, and
make it quite palpable to another woman,
without absolutely saying in so many words,
1 I am engaged ; do not fall in love with me,'
and he may do this without hurting her feelings
or her self-respect. Jerome Wellfield
did not do this.

1 There is a farm belonging to the Abbey,'
observed Nata, 'and papa leaves all the
management of it to me : he only cares for
his books when he leaves business, so I have
the farm and the gardens and the house 
indeed, everything connected with our life
here  to look after.'

1 Quite alone ?' asked Jerome.

Yes ; because I have no brothers or sisters,
and very few friends. I am the only
one, and I am glad of it.'

4 Are you ? Is it not rather lonely ?'

I never feel lonely. I don't know what it
is to feel lonely. And sometimes I think it
is only the heroines of novels who ever do
feel so ; but when 'I once said so to Aunt
Margaret, she said who was I to talk ? and

desired me to wait until I had had a little
more experience of life.'

4 Let us hope you may never have any
experience in that line,' said Jerome, smiling.

Why, do you know what it is to be lonely ?'

'No; I have never felt particularly oppressed
by that sensation. But, talking
about brothers and sisters, I should have
thought you would have been  we won't say
less lonely, since you take exception to the
term  but would have enjoyed life more if
you had had some of them.'

I don't see it,' persisted Nata. ' I am
very happy as I am. I like my own way.
I don't care to be interfered with. A brother
would take the first place in papa's heart, and
have the first say in everything ; and a sister
no, I would rather not.'

You are exclusive, and contented. Some
day you will have pow r er more undivided
than now, even,' said Jerome, dwelling with
a morbid persistency on the idea which at
present haunted him. ' I suppose you like
thinking of that too ?'

Yes,' said Nata, frankly and unthinkingly,
I do ; I love to think that I am not going
to leave this dear old place, ever. And I
love to think that some day, though I hope
not for a very long time, it will be my very
own.'

She looked up at him with a smile, as she
finished ; met his eyes, read the expression
in them, stopped abruptly, and said, in a
voice of consternation :

Oh dear, oh dear !'

Her face was covered with a flood of
colour. For a moment she put her hand
before it, as if to cover it, then dropped it
again.

1 What must you think of me ?' she exclaimed,
in a voice full of tears. ' Pray forgive
me, if you can !'

Pray do not distress yourself,' he rejoined,
a curious flavour, half bitterness, half amusement,
in his voice  ' I led up to it ; I wanted
to hear you confess it. I felt sure you were
too natural not to feel so. You are quite right ;
you and yours have not stolen the place.

You came by it honestly, and have a right to
rejoice in it if you like.'

He made a step onwards, inwardly wondering
a little why he had led up to this
topic. Nata's face was downcast, as she said,
in a deep tone of annoyance and vexation :

It does not matter. I am a little fool, I
believe. After all my resolutions that I
would not drop a syllable that could wound
you while you were here  idiot that I am !'

1 Did you make such resolutions ?' asked
Wellfield, suddenly stopping again, and bending
his eyes beneath their frowning brows
upon her.

Yes. Oh, don't look so severe, Mr.
Wellfield, or I shall have to go in. Indeed
it was an oversight, my saying such a thing.'

I wish you would not take it so to heart,'
he said, with a short laugh. ' It is well that
I should learn to grow accustomed to my
position. You have given me the first lesson,
that is all. Shall we go on ?'

Nata answered nothing, but paced on
beside him. Jerome was fully aware in his

secret heart that his last speech was claptrap;
but if it had the same effect upon Nata as if
it had been fresh from the real well of pathos,
what did it matter ? There was a vague
feeling present in his mind, that Nata seemed
to take a good deal of interest in him 
a feeling which gave him suddenly great
interest in her,

1 You are very fond of the Abbey, then ?'
he asked.

Yes  very.'

1 Why so ? What makes you like it so
much ? Stop ! I am sure you need not
give orders to the gardener this very moment.
Take one other turn with me on the river
walk. Why are you so devoted to the
Abbey ?'

I can hardly tell,' she answered, a little
shyly. (Evidently she was dreadfully afraid
of hurting him by any second remark like that
one which had already, as it were, exploded
like a conversational bombshell. To her he
was still the lord of the soil, despite her love
for the place, and her keen sense of joy in the

possession of it. He saw the feeling in a
moment, and it gratified him.) ' I hardly
know,' repeated Nata ; ' it seems to have
grown part of my life  it is so different
from other places. It suits me. I was so
glad when we came here.'

K And you knew when you came that you
were the only child of your father, and you
liked the idea of sometime reigning at the
old place ?' pursued Jerome, tranquilly.

4 Yes. Oh, do please excuse me. I did
like it very much. But if I had known
about you, I should not have liked it ; and
I shall not like it now.'

Known about me !  you mean that you
were unaware of the existence of such a
person ?'

'No; I had heard of you. But Aunt
Margaret  is a little prejudiced, I think.
She knows all the traditions of the place,
and all the histories of all the old families
in it, and she used to say that  that your
father '

What about my father, Miss Bolton ?'

VOL. I. l8

It was not your father in particular. It
was the Wellfield family. She had a dislike
to  no, not a dislike. Aunt Margaret never
has such strong feelings as likes and dislikes.
She said your family were proud and
unscrupulous, that they had never worked
for others, or cared for any but themselves ;
that they were  but I have no business to
say such things,' said Nata, who had by this
time become so nervous and so confused as
not really to know what she was saying, and
who rambled on, fascinated by the calm, pale
face and intent dark eyes of her companion.
She spoke of the oldlWellfields as if they had
been a dream, and did not realise that this
man beside her was actually one of the race.

Go on, please,' he said ; and Nata continued,
as if it had been a lesson she was
repeating by heart.

1 That they were selfish and luxurious "

The last fault will not be laid to their
charge in this generation, at least,' observed
Jerome. ' Well, what else ?'

I am only saying all this because you

make me !' said Nata, with almost passionate
protest in her voice, ' not because I wish to.
She says  but I will tell you no more. I
will not be so odious. If you really desire
to hear such things, ask Aunt Margaret.
She will tell you, and will not spare anything
on account of your name and your race.'

'Thank you. I shall have a little conversation
with her some day. I can quite
imagine that she thought it was an unmitigated
benefit when the Abbey passed from
the hands of our dissolute race into the
honest and untainted ones of your father.'

1 I knew you would never forgive me, and
yet you would make me go on,' said Nata, ina
tone of despairing resignation. ' I can't
help it. I wash my hands of it.'

1 You at least may " wash your hands in
innocency," ' he replied. ' Since my old
home is never to be mine, I would as soon
you had it as anyone ; and since you wish
for it more than for anything in the
world '

There is one thing now which I feel

182

that I wish for more,' said Nata, in a vibrating
voice.

Is there ? What is that ?'

That you  that those whose home it
really is, should own it once again. I would
gladly leave it now to let you come into it.'

That is generously said, and I thank you
for it,' said Jerome, in a voice not altogether
unmoved. His eyes looked gratefully into
hers. He took her hand, and carried it to
his lips. Nata thrilled from head to foot.
Was this the same world as the world of
twenty-four hours ago ?

4 To know that goes as near as anything
can to reconciling me to my inevitable loss,'
he said, still in a low tone, as they resumed
their way.

They left the solitary, silent river walk,
dangerous in its beauty and its associations,
for the more prosaic regions of the kitchen-garden.
While they waited for the gardener
to come, Nata said :

4 Don't let me keep you here. I shall be
ever so long; and then I have to go to the

farm. You will want to go down to Monk's
Gate, I daresay.'

'I do ; but I am emboldened to ask a
favour of you, first.'

What is that ?'

When you have quite finished your business
here, will it be too much to ask you to
come down to Monk's Gate, and give me a
little advice ? There is some furniture in it,
but I don't know whether it can be used. I
am a man, you see, and naturally helpless in
such a case. If you did not mind very
much '

I shall be delighted. I will come down
as soon as ever I have finished. Shall I find
you there ?'

'You will find me there. If not in the
house, in the garden ; and if not in the garden,
in the house. Thank you, very much.'

Lifting his hat he left her, and went down
the river walk.

Adamson, the gardener, found his young
mistress strangely distraite and forgetful  a
phenomenon which puzzled him, for he was

wont to bear admiring testimony to her clearness
of head, and readiness of comprehension,
saying : ' Eh, but hoo's a rare sharp un, is
Miss Bolton. Hoo's a chip of the 'owt
block in more ways nor one, hoo is.'

Wellfield, meanwhile, had taken his way
down the river walk, the entrance to which
was in the village street, close beside the
ancient stone bridge. On the other side of
this bridge, a stony, steep, wood-shaded walk
led invitingly up a hill, then bent round to
the left, leaving the rest of that enticing way
to conjecture. This path, as Jerome remembered,
took one to the top of a hill called
Wellfield Nab or Neb, or simply ' the Nab.'
He remembered climbing it sixteen years
ago, with his tutor and John Leyburn ; and
the glorious view of the surrounding country
which it commanded, he remembered too.

At the foot of the Nab, almost out of sight
from the bridge, he could just catch a glimpse
of a couple of gables, belonging to the Abbot's
Knoll house  Leyburn's dwelling. John rode

every morning to his mill, which was some
two miles distant, on the road to Burnham.

Down the quaint paved street Jerome
walked towards the church, that ancient
white church under the hill,' which had
weathered so many storms and troubles. A
sleepy place, Wellfield  a place which seemed
forgotten of all men save the few who lived
in it.

Monk's Gate was only a very few minutes'
walk from the church, the clock of which
struck eleven as Jerome opened the gate of
the garden.

He unlocked the door, and w T went into the
house again, but did not remain there long.
He felt that he really did require Nata's assistance,
and must wait until she arrived.

The quiet and sunshine of the old-fashioned,
untidy garden were congenial to him. He
wandered about it, inhaling the scent of roses
and carnations, and the rich, spicy odours
of picotees and the old-fashioned white
pink. The sun shone pleasantly upon everything,
doing his best towards ripening the

young pears and apples on the trees, and
bringing the flowers into more ample bloom.
Where is the charm that can compete with
that which pervades an old-fashioned English
garden ?  the flavour of grace and quaintness,
and the suggestions of a 'gentle life' which
hang about such a garden are to be found
nowhere else.

Wellfield had turned his back to the gate,
and was looking at the great, blunt, boulder-shaped
head of Penhull, and observing the
purple mist of heather which clothed its
mighty sides, when a voice behind him said :

< Mr. Wellfield !'

He turned, a curious thrill shooting through
him. The speaker must, he thought, have
almost stolen up to him, so noiseless had
been his approach. He confronted a tall,
spare man, in the dress of an ecclesiastic.
The voice in which he had spoken was soft
and musical ; he took off his hat with a smile,
as Jerome's eyes met his, and the smile was
a singularly fascinating one, giving an expression
of exceeding graciousness and sweetness

to a pale, finely cut, ascetic-looking countenance.
There was a courtly grace in the
man's appearance, in his bow and manner.

For a moment Wellfield paused, then,
bowing in his turn, said :

Surely I cannot be mistaken  you are
the Father Pablo Somerville whom I met
years ago ?'

The same,' he replied. ' I am glad to
find you remember me. For me, I saw you
as I passed the garden, and concluded it was
you ; but had I met you anywhere else, I
should have known you instantly.'

1 Am I so little changed, then ?'

Not much. And,' with a slight smile,
even had you changed a good deal, yours is
not a face one soon forgets.'

Wellfield held out his hand, saying cordially,
I am glad to see you.' He felt glad. In
Somerville's presence he felt at ease  felt as
though he were with one of his own kind ; a
sensation he had never experienced since
before his father's death, and which was pleasant
to him, as it is pleasant to return to

European civilisation, with its beloved and
elaborate shams, after wandering amidst the
primitive and repulsive honesty of savages ;
as it is pleasant to return to stove-heated
rooms and a perfumed atmosphere, to rich
meats and dainty wines, after a forced sojourn
amongst bare boards, hard pallets, and a diet
of bread and water. Such exactly was the
sensation experienced now by Wellfield, ashe
clasped hands with this high-bred, polished-looking
priest and man of the world.

I would ask you into my house, but I
doubt whether there is a chair in it fit to sit
upon. I only arrived here yesterday, and am
surveying now all the home that I have.'

The Abbey has passed away from you, as
I heard,' observed Somerville. ' That is a
pity, for many reasons. We at Brentwood
at least regret it. In the old days, when
your forefathers belonged to us, Wellfield
Abbey was noted far and wide for the munificence
of its gifts, and the splendour of its
hospitality. Even in the days when your
people were Protestants, they have always

been gentlemen  Wellfields, despite the Protestantism,
and they have never treated us
churlishly. Down to the last visit of your
late father to the Abbey, we were always
received with hospitality and kindness  then,
especially, for Mrs. Wellfield was there '

My mother!' exclaimed Jerome, eagerly,
4 Did you ever see her ? Were you at the
Abbey then ?'

c It is a long time ago. Twenty-four years
ago. I was a lad of thirteen ; and I was even
then destined for the priesthood. I have
been at Brentwood all my life. I was taken
by one of the professors, to call at Wellfield
Abbey, and I remember it well to this day.
It was winter weather, and there were roaring
fires all over the old house. Mr. Well-field
complained of everything being heated
to furnace-heat. Your beautiful young
mother  and she tuas beautiful  sat crouching
over a huge fire, with you  a little
infant  swathed in warm shawls, in her arms.
I think all the beauty of her beautiful land
was concentrated in her. What wonder that

I sat and gazed at her, and thought her like
the Madonna, and wondered how Father
Leigh presumed to talk, and even laugh
with her ?'

You remember all this!' exclaimed Jerome,,
earnestly. ' Since I came here, almost every
hour has brought back some incident, some
recollection, some remembered face, which
have made the reverse more cruel, and more
terrible to bear, than I had imagined anything
could be.'

I can well believe it. Satires temps, autres
racers. Things are changed now, from that
time of gracious hospitality and high-bred
courtesy. The present owner of Wellfield
Abbey' (a slight sneer played about the
finely-cut lips) 'detests 'papists" with a
truly Protestant candour and liberality. I
must say, even if it appear like boasting,
that his bigotry is his misfortune, since the
"Papists" he objects to are the only society
worthy of the name in the neighbourhood.'

1 1 suppose so,' said Jerome, whose face
had grown dark during this discourse. He

was pacing with Somerville up and down the
gravel walk.

'Yes. The Lathebys of Latheby  do
you remember them ?'

1 The name I know well enough. What
of them ?'

1 They were formerly on the best of terms
with the Abbey. You must come and seethe
exquisite chapel which Mrs. Latheby has
offered to Brentwood. And the Ormes of
Downhill, and some others  these are the
only gentry, and the only cultivated people
for miles around. But Mr. Bolton does not
care to associate with such popish canaille'

He smiled again, more sneeringly than
before, and Jerome felt his heart warm
towards him. This classification of Mr.
Bolton with one world, and of himself with
quite another, was not unpleasant to him.

Many things have happened which go
sorely against the grain with me,' he rejoined.
The mischief of it is, my hands are tied. I
am powerless, because I am moneyless.'

I have heard of your losses,' said Father

Somerville, ' and regret them. You will
believe me, Mr. Wellfield, when I say that
we at Brentwood would have welcomed you
back in any case, rich or poor, with the
Abbey or without it, as a gentleman and a
civilised being. We shall welcome you as it
is, if you decide to settle amongst us  welcome
you heartily. And you will think no
wrong when I say that had you been coming
amongst us to take that position which in the
sight of heaven you ought to have, we should
have welcomed you, not more sincerely, but
perhaps more openly and ceremoniously.'

'You flatter me,' said Jerome, a flush of
something like pleasure on his cheek. 'Such
a welcome can by no means be indifferent tome.
As to settling here myself, it seems the
only thing for me to do at present. At any
rate, even if I should have to leave, I shall
bring my sister here, and she will live here.

Your sister ! How old is Miss Wellfield,
if I may ask ?'

'Sixteen. She is at present in Germany
with  a friend.'

1 I see. When you have settled things,
you will bring her here. And yourself  pardon
these inquiries, and do not answer them if

you think them not allowable, but '

1 They are more than allowable. They
are very kind ; and I feel it a privilege to be
able to speak to you of my affairs,' returned
Wellfield, with some animation. * Myself, I
consider destitute until I have found some
employment. What little remains of my
fortune, I shall devote entirely to my sister's,
use. With strict economy, and in this quiet
place, I may make it suffice for her wants.
They say trade is good. I may succeed in
finding a clerk's place in some office, in
which a " thorough knowledge of several
foreign languages" is a desideratum, though,
to tell the truth, I should first have to learn
the entire technique of any business I entered.
I should be a bad bargain at first for any
employer, whatever glories I might attain to
later in the matter of book-keeping or correspondence.
Still, I may earn enough to
keep me  what do I know ?'

He threw up his head, and laughed a little,
plunging his hands into his pockets. Father
Somerville watched him narrowly and unobserved.
The study pleased him, interested
him, made him curious to pursue it further,

There was a pause till the priest said :

'If I remember aright, you are a good
musician, Mr. Wellfield.'

Yes. It is the only thing I have  the
only talent my God has given me. Of much
use it appears it will be to me !'

Hush, hush, sir ! As you say, your God
has given it to you, and He doubtless had
some purpose in so endowing you.'

I beg your pardon, muttered Jerome.
It is not my habit to speak in that manner;
but I have been harassed almost to madness
by the embarrassments and difficulties of
my position. Sometimes I have wondered
whether the last Wellfield was sent into the
world to make a name and a fortune on the
stage.'

1 I can well understand your feelings.
Where are you staying ?' he added, suddenly.

At an inn ? Will you not come and take
shelter with us at Brentwood. They would

be '

1 I thank you. I am staying at the Abbey.'

Ah, at the Abbey ? Then you simply

came down here for a stroll. Will they turn

you out of the Abbey as a polluted thing if

you enter Brentwood to take a meal there ?'

I don't suppose they would ; but at this
moment I am waiting, and must continue to
wait until she comes, for Miss Bolton, who
has been kind enough to promise me her
assistance in deciding what part of the lumber
inside here is fit to keep and which is good
only to be cast into the fire.'

You know Miss Bolton, then ?'
I made her acquaintance, and that of her
father, yesterday ; and they asked me to stay
with them until my business here was done.'
Her father is enormously rich.'
Is he ? I knew he must be rich from the
sum he paid my father for the Abbey. I did
not know his wealth was " enormous." '

But it is, without any exaggeration. He
vol. 1. 19

has been one of the most successful manufacturers
in Burnham, and does an immense
foreign trade : perhaps your knowledge of
foreign languages might be useful to him.
Knowledge is power, you know, let fools say
what they may against it,' observed Father
Somerville, who had a way of throwing out
hints which suggested the largest possibilities,
in a casual careless way which was quite
peculiar to him.

'It is no small thing to be one of the
wealthiest manufacturers of Burnham,' he went
on. 'In plain English, it means an income
like that of a nobleman  an income which in
this case is not one quarter spent, but which
goes on accumulating in excellent investments.
. . And Miss Bolton is sole heiress ?'

Yes  so I understand,' said Jerome,
absently, his mind occupied with the priest's
suggestion that perhaps his knowledge of
languages might prove useful to Mr. Bolton.
Why not ? It would be well for him if it
should turn out to be so. The natural indolence
of his half-southern temperament made

the idea of strenuous exertion in search of
employment, which hardly could in the nature
of things be remunerative, utterly abhorrent
him ; and he grasped with the more eagerness
at the idea suggested by Somerville's
words.

The latter was tempted to smile at what
at first appeared the obtuseness of the young
man. But he was a man of the world.
Wellfield's absence of mind, and his unconsciousness
of the hint which lay behind that
remark about the sole heiress, might be an
innocence which would certainly be refreshing
in one who must have been the object of
so much matrimonial angling as Jerome
Wellfield, in the days when he had been the
supposed heir to the Abbey and a fortune ;
but it also might not be innocence at all. It
might be that some deeper reason caused that
obtuseness. Probably young Wellfield was
in love already. With his disposition, and
with the life he had led, it was most unlikely
that he should have travelled so far in life
without ever having had his heart touched.

19  2

Pablo Somerville knew when to be reserved
and when to be open, even cynically open and
candid. He judged this a fitting occasion on
which to display the latter qualities.

4 She knows it, I should imagine ?' he said.

Yes  of course, yes. She told me this
morning how pleased she often felt at the
idea of one day owning the Abbey,' said
Jerome, still not awake to the palpable bearings
of the case.

(quelle betide !  how like a rotnrier /'
flashed rapidly through Somerville's mind;
if she likes the Abbey, no doubt she would
like the owner  the once owner !')

Aloud, he said, striking at once me, and
sharply :

'Has a mariage de convenance never occurred
to you as a way out of your difficulties ?'
he inquired, in a thoroughly matter-of-fact,
composed tone.

Jerome abruptly came to a dead stop. His
eyes leaped to the other's face. The priest
looked at him with a slight cool smile, half
rallying, half surprised.

Never,' at last replied Wellfield, almost
frigidly. But his heart was beating fast and
suddenly.

I am surprised at that. I should fancy it
would be very easily arranged. And then, if
you really wish for employment, nothing would
be easier than to find it. It is always to be
bought, if you will pay dear enough for
it. Were you but a Catholic, I know
of one  two marriages of that kind, which
might soon be negotiated through our influence.
As it is, I am not Jesuit enough to
pretend that I would connive at marrying a
Catholic heiress to a heretic, even where the
heretic is Jerome Wellfield.'

Jerome laughed a little. ' It would certainly
be a good deal to expect,' said he.

It would, since you would probably not
only marry the heiress, but convert her, if
you wished to. But why should you not
think of Miss Bolton ? You would soon win
her, and, with her, regain your patrimony and
your home.'

He did not expatiate upon the subject.

Jerome, engrossed by his real love, had absolutely
not once thought of Miss Bolton in
the light in which she was now held upto
him. She was very rich. Some time she
would be the mistress of Wellfield Abbey.
He rather liked her, in a superior, patronising
kind of way, but otherwise she was utterly
indifferent to him ; whereas every fibre of his
heart was powerfully drawn in another direction.


Impossible, Father ! The circumstances
make it out of the question,' said he, coldly
and decisively.

1 The course is clear said the priest,
calmly. ' Miss Bolton is not engaged. She
is anything but disagreeable or stupid. Considering
her training, she is a marvel of
refinement ; and if you married her you could
make her into what you pleased. You have
no rivals, and if you had, none here who
could for a moment compete with yourself.'

Pardon me ; I know nothing of Miss
Bolton's feelings, of course, but unless I am
much mistaken I have  should have, I

mean  a rival in her cousin, John Leyburn,
as good a fellow as ever breathed.'

Father Somerville laughed  laughed as a
man laughs who has heard a jest full of a
quaint conceit which delights him. He had
a musical laugh, and there was nothing offensive
in his manner.

1 A good fellow enough, and liberal minded.
I have encountered him once or twice on
local business. But a girl like Miss Bolton
wants something more than a good fellow fora
husband  something different, at least.
She lives alone, reads novels and poetry, has
known Mr. Leyburn all her life, while you 
bah ! my dear sir, the idea of a rivalry is
absurd.'

1 Your imagination is vivid. I say again,
it is out of the question. No. Wellfield is
gone from me, and I must abide without it as
best I may.'

(' A woman in the case, assuredly thought
the priest, ' or he would never hesitate. No
Wellfield ever did hesitate at so easy a means
of making himself at ease again. It was

honest work that always made that race kick
and plunge')

Before he could speak aloud the gate had
been opened, and Nata, accompanied by
Speedwell, her mastiff, entered the garden.

We must drop that topic,' murmured
Somerville with a slight smile, as he bowed
low to the girl, who returned the salutation
very slightly, saying with marked coolness of
manner to Jerome :

1 You are engaged, Mr. Wellfield. I am
intruding, and will come another time.'

1 By no means,' said Somerville, quickly.
I must go  I was on the point of taking
leave.'

1 But I shall see you again,' said Jerome.

Certainly, and often, if I consult my own
inclination,' said Somerville, with his strange,
sweet smile. ' Call at Brentwood, and ask
for me at any hour after vespers, and I shall
receive you with pleasure.'

Nata, followed by her dog, had walked into
the house while these farewell amenities were
taking place.

Will you not come tomorrow ?' added
Father Somerville.

4 Thank you. I shall be glad to do so.'

4 That is well. Then, auf WiedersehenP

He lifted his hat, and was gone. Jerome
entered the house, and found Nata standing
at the window of the larger parlour, motionless,
her eyes fixed upon the retreating figure
of the priest in his long black soutane.
Speedwell, his foresaw upon the window-ledge,
looked too. Nata did not hear Jerome.
She was too absorbed in her watch, but as he
entered, he saw her pat her dog's head and
heard a low ' Ss-s !' from her lips.

Miss Bolton !' he exclaimed, in astonishment,
while Speedwell's low, thunderous
growl was exchanged for two deep, angry
barks.

Nata started, turned, and laughed.

4 Are you shocked ?' she said. ' I do so
hate that man. I call him the " Polished
Panther." I should not wish to be rude to
him if he is a friend of yours, but for myself,
I cannot stand him, and that is all about it.'

I can hardly call him a friend, though he
is an old acquaintance. Do you know what
post he has at Brentwood ?'

Oh, you know they go through a course.
They don't keep on teaching the same thing.
I heard the other day that he was teaching
history  Jesuit history, of course, which
proves beyond dispute that the Jesuits
always have been right, ever since the first
one first founded the order, and that everyone
else always has been and will be wrong.
That is what Father Somerville is teaching
at present, I believe.'

You speak with heat, and surely with a
little prejudice,' said he, smiling, but  insensibly
it seemed  his manner towards her had
changed, had taken a shade more of interest,
of familiarity ; there was a subtle difference
both in his feelings towards her, and the
behaviour which expressed those feelings.
4 Father Somerville is an accomplished '

Deceiver ! Oh yes ; I know he is. He
would deceive anyone less clever than himself.
I dislike him exceedingly, and so does

Speedwell. Well, shall we look at your
furniture, Mr. Wellneld ?'

4 Thank you,' said Jerome, accepting the
hint, if hint it were' if you don't mind.'

They began with the room in which they
were standing, and Nata soon displayed capacities
for arranging and settling and turning
things to the best advantage, which perfectly
astonished Jerome. Numbers of things
which he was about to cast aside as being
utterly useless, she quickly reclaimed, remarking
that they only wanted such and such repairs
to make them serviceable and even good.

And it would be sinful to throw away a
scrap of this old furniture,' she added. 'You
can't buy any like it except for fabulous
prices, and then you are never sure that you
are not being cheated. I am convinced that for
fifty pounds or so, you may make the house
very nice  at least if you will let me dispose
of the fifty pounds for you,' she added, colouring
a little ; ' for I am sure you would belike
a child  so helpless  if you went alone
to a furniture shop.'

1 1 do not doubt it, and would accept your
offer gratefully if I did not think it was imposing
on your kindness

'Not at all. We will drive into Burnham
tomorrow, and see about it,' replied Nata.
1 Meantime, it is nearly dinner-time, and papa
will be waiting, Shall we go back to the
Abbey ?'

Jerome accompanied her to her home, with
new agitation in his breast, and a vague
wonder whether, for the future, Monk's Gate
were to be his home.

CHAPTER

VI. IN DANGER

VII. THE WORKING OF THE SPELL -
VIII. THE FIRST OF BRENTWOOD

IX. 'don't fret'

X. INDIAN SUMMER

PAGE
I









STAGE III.

I. INTERMEDIATE - - - - - 139

II. Legend Milder - 149

III. THE SECOND MEETING - - - - 163

IV, HERR FALKENBERG's FRIENDSHIP - - 1 85
V. THE LION AND THE MOUSE - - - 2o6

VI. Unawares - - - - - 221

VII. * AN ENEMY HATH DONE THIS ' - - - 229

VIII. FATHER SOMERVILLE GATHERS THE THREADS

TOGETHER - 249

IX. ABSCHIED UND RUCKKEHR - - - 264

STAGE II  Continued.

CHAPTER VL

IN DANGER.

Oh Death, that makes life so sweet !
Oh fear, with mirth before thy feet !'

HEN Nata and Jerome again arrived
at the Abbey, they found that Mr.
Bolton had returned from Burnham,
and that the midday dinner, which was
an institution in the family, was waiting for
them.

VOL. II. 20

'Have you settled anything?  has Nata
helped you ?' inquired Mr. Bolton.

Miss Bolton has been very kind indeed,
and has probably saved me from wasting a
great deal of my small stock of money,'
replied Jerome.

Ah !' said Mr. Bolton, appreciatively,
'that's always something gained.'

He asked his daughter what she was going
to do that afternoon, and Nata said she was
going to drive to the town of Clyderhow todo
a little shopping.'

Why Clyderhow ? The shops in Burnham
are a great deal better.'

Because I like the drive to Clyderhow,'
said Nata; 'and there is a wonderful milliner
there. Aunt Margaret got a bonnet from
her with five ostrich tips in it, and a bird, and
three bows of black satin ribbon, and a great
deal of velvet, for the sum of two guineas.'

So you go by the quantity of stuff you get
for your money when you choose bonnets ?'
asked Mr. Bolton.

Aunt Margaret does. She likes plumes.

I thought I might perhaps find something
sweetly modest and simple, with one feather
and one bow, and a little flower or sprig for
instance, for next to nothing.*

Is this shopping considered a secret
service affair ?' inquired Jerome ; ' or may I
go too, if I sit quite still while you are in the
shop, and promise not to look that way ?'

I am afraid you would think it a great
bore,' said Nata quickly, as her face flushed.

I suppose it was because I love to bore
and afflict myself that I asked permission to
go,' he answered, with a smile.

I shall be most happy to take you if you
would really like to go. Will you come too,
papa ?'

What an idea !  I hope not !' thought
Jerome, within himself, and Mr. Bolton was
obliging enough to say :

I ?  no. I never drive in the afternoon.
I am going to my Italian, as usual.'

But as the carriage was not ordered to be
round until half an hour after dinner, Mr.

20  2

Bolton proposed to Jerome that they should
take a walk round the garden and have a cigar.
Nata watched the two figures as they paced
together towards the cloisters. The elder
man, with the massive lines, broad, sturdy
figure, somewhat below middle height, but
still imposing in its power and strength ; the
somewhat bowed back and high shoulders ;
the round, bull-dog head, with its expression
of dogged determination. The younger 
Nata leaned against the side of the window
and folded her arms, as she contemplated
him with a strange mixture of sensations.
What a contrast to that dear familiar figure
of the man who was noted for his hardness
and coldness to others, but who was so
gentle, so tender and indulgent to her, and to
the few friends who composed their small
circle of intimates  a contrast indeed ! The
new-comer was  unconsciously she recalled
those lines in ' Esther' 

He was a lovely youth ; I guess
The panther in the wilderness
Was not more fair than he.'

The panther in the wilderness !' That was
an evil comparison ; surely he was good as
well as beautiful. Was it really only yesterday
that he had arrived  not yet twenty-four
hours ago ? And how long would he still be
here ? And what would the Abbey, everything
be, when he was gone ? She turned
hastily away from the window, and would not
venture another look.

The two men paced about the river walk
for a time, till Mr. Bolton asked :

Do you know any of the people about
here ?'

I met an old acquaintance this morning 
Father Somerville, from Brentwood.*

Somerville ! You know him  Is he any
favourite of yours .'

As to that, I can hardly say. I like what
I have seen of him, but know very little of
him. I fancy we have many tastes in common.
He is a cultivated man, who has seen
the world, I think.'

'Ay, ay 1 he's clever, is Somerville, and

attractive too, I could fancy. I never let any
of those gentry Inside my house.'

No ?' said Jerome, Indifferently. ' I hope
you have no objection to your visitors knowing
them, for I have promised to go and see
him tomorrow.'

Oh, my visitors do as they please, I hope.
So long as he does not darken my doors, it's
all one to me what he does. Nata, I am
thankful to say, is not of an hysterical temperament,
for all she is so slight and delicate.
She has never displayed any tendencies to
being over-religious, or going In for Ritualism
or that kind of mummery ; else I should have
had to send her to a good sharp school.'

Miss Bolton has never been to school ?'

No ; her mother died when she was two.
By that time I was a rich man ; and as I
knew I should never marry again, I took
Nata's education Into my own hands. She
will inherit my money and my property ; and
I have given her the education of a man of
business. She will know to a fraction what

she is worth ; and if she falls into any snares,
it will be with her eyes open.'

That is well,' said Jerome, gravely, wondering
a lite why Mr. Bolton, on so short
an acquaintance, chose to discourse to him on
this topic. And with Father Somerville's
advice fresh in his mind, he felt interested in
that topic  wrongfully interested.

Your daughter will marry some one who
will administer her fortune wisely, it is to be
hoped,' he said.

Mr. Bolton sighed. ' I suppose she must
marry,' he said, slowly. A girl with that
money ought to marry. One has heard of
wealthy maiden ladies of large property living
alone, and exercising power over all around
them ; but,' he turned suddenly to Wellfield,
did you ever hear or read of one, in real life
or even in a romance, who was not unhappy?
I never did.'

I really don't feel to know much about
the subject,' said Jerome, feeling that they
were skirting: delicate round, wondering

more and more that Mr. Bolton spoke thus
to him, of all persons.

Nata has told me about your sister, and
your views about her,' he went on. ' I like
you for your behaviour, Mr. Wellfield.'

I T stammered Jerome, surprised. ' Miss
Bolton must have misunderstood.'

No. She told me you had a half-sister,
to whose use you intended to devote what
money you had, while you sought for employment
for yourself. I like to hear of a
man treating his sister in that way.'

Jerome was silent  surprised. He felt his
tongue tied. His natural impulse was to
please, when his companion showed a predisposition
to be pleased. He felt a desire to
say something which should still further excite
Mr. Bolton's goodwill, and make him 
Jerome Wellfield  feel on still better terms
with himself. But the thought of Sara Ford
rose up, and forbade him to do so. He
continued his walk in silence.

I have a proposition to make to you,' said

Mr. Bolton, suddenly. Jerome turned to him
with his lips apart, and a quick inquiring look
upon his face. Could it be that Father
Somerville had the gift of second-sight ?

It's not a very brilliant proposition ; and
it is all founded on the assumption that you
know nothing of business ; no book-keeping
for instance, no clerkship routine. Do you ?'

No, I do not ; I know absolutely nothing
of those things.'

Well, if I found you capable  excuse my
bluntness,' he said, with the same pedantic
little air which characterised his speech  ' we
manufacturers are apt to be a little scornful
of a want of practical talent ; but if I found
you capable, and you would care to try, I
think I could find you some employment in
my own office. But you would have to begin
by learning the very elements of your work
from my book-keeper and cashier. If you
like to come over \o Burnham two or three
times a week, for a short time, and try, you
are welcome.'

You are very kind !' said Jerome, astonished
: * I have no possible claim upon
such '

You do not in the least know my reasons
for making you the offer,' replied Mr. Bolton,
with a calm superiority that made Jerome
feel somewhat snubbed ; ' therefore, do not
be in any haste to express your gratitude.
My book-keeper will soon turn you out a
finished article, if you are to be turned out
at all.'

Sublime destiny ! The gods might envy
me !' thought Jerome, within himself ; but he
said : ' I shall accept your offer with gratitude.
I do not know how I should have
found anything, with my ignorance and my
utter want of influence.'

That's right ! And in the meantime take
holiday till next week, and enjoy yourself.
There's Nata's phaeton going round, I see,
and the groom ; I suppose she will be
ready.'

With which canonical dismissal of the

whole subject, he led the way to the house
again.

Nata drove a high phaeton, with a spirited
pair of romans. In answer to Jerome's suggestion
that he should drive she looked so rueful
that he laughed, saying :

If that is the case I shall be only too glad
to be driven. I am indolent enough for anything.'


I am glad to hear it,' replied Nata, taking
the ribbons. Very soon they were driving at
a pleasant speed through the lanes leading
towards Clyderhow, whose ancient castle, on
a mound, confronted them for a great part of
the distance.

What does Mr. Bolton mean, when he
speaks of "his Italian?' asked Jerome, reflectively.


Nata laughed as she flicked the romans
lightly.

Of course you would not understand,' she
answered. ' Italian is papa's favourite weakness.
Did you ever see anyone so unlike

Italy as he Is ? Poor old dear ! He always
used to read in the afternoons, and one day
he was perusing a little book aloud to me,
and I was sewing. There came some allusion
t *' the fiery domes and cupolas of the
city of DIs." He asked me what it meant,
and I told him about the '' Inferno." He said :
'' That's very fine  those fiery domes and
cupolas. I must know some more about it."
With which he took to studying Italian, and
is now devoted to it. It is very seldom that
he fails to give a few hours each day to it.
He is translating the "Inferno," in his rough,
plodding way. I am glad he finds something
to amuse himself with, for he has had a sad
life.'

Sad ? He has been unusually successful,
has he not ?'

Oh, In money-matters, yes. But my
mother died just when he hoped to give her
everything she desired  and more. And he
was  he was very fond of her.'

I see! I might have understood that,'

replied Jerome ; and then, after a pause,
Mr. Bolton has been making very kind
offers to me.'

Has he ? What manner of offers ?'
He told her. 

Do you call that a kind offer ?' cried Nata
impatiently, as her face flushed. ' How could
he suggest such a thing ? Oh, really, how
hard men can be !'

Perhaps you think he should at once have
placed the half of his possessions at my disposal.
Is it not better to be *hard," as you
call it, than an idiot ?'

Well, I suppose it is. But life is such a
mystery.'

As how  I mean how exemplified in my
case ?'

Nata laughed with a little embarrassment.


I never can explain things. But it is a
mystery. You a clerk ! What an idea ! You
must feel it to be absurd, yourself, don't
you ?'

I have not thought much about it. It
has to be done.

" When land is gone and money spent,"

you know.'

Pray what would your sister' say to it ?'

Avice ? Well, really, I don't suppose
she has any clear ideas as to what clerks are,
or do. If I told her I was going to be a
tailor, she would think it all right if I said
so.'

Is she that kind of a sister ?'

Yes,' said Jerome, in perfect good faith.
He imagined indeed that Avice was that
kind of a sister ; essentially the right kind of
sister. Women ought all to be like that 
blind to the faults of those they loved  when
those' were men. The men to work, the
women to admire ; the workers to rule, the
admirers to submit. It was a beautiful
arrangement.

I daresay it is very nice in her to be like
that,' said Nata, 'but if I had had a brother,

I should not have been that kind of a sister at
all. I should have told him very plainly
what I thought of his doings, and if I
imagined that he was degrading himself, I
should have told him that too.'

Would you, at the same time, have provided
him with the means of acting up to
what you considered a higher standard i'

'It is a shame r Nata burst out almost
passionately, after a pause.

How naively she showed her interest,
Jerome thought, with a little sense of pleased,
flattered self-complacency. How delightfully
natural she was  and what a curious contrast
to that woman whose proud lips had already
confessed her love for him : to Sara Ford !
His heart suddenly throbbed as he thought
of her. Dangerous thought ! He must not
indulge in it, and accordingly, to turn the
conversation, he said:

You have singular ideas on the subject of
brothers and sisters, possibly because the relation
is purely a matter of speculation to you.'

Oh no, It isn't. Jack Is my brother.'

John Leyburn ?' he asked, with a feeling
of surprise that was not altogether pleasant.
Sooth to say, he had forgotten Leyburn for
the moment, and here he was suddenly cropping
up again In a manner that was obtrusive
thrusting himself In where he was not In
the least wanted.

John Leyburn  yes.'

Privileged young man ! He seems to me,
like most cousins, to make the most of his
advantages.'

What do you mean ?' asked Nata.

He takes every opportunity of lecturing
you. And you  well, you are consistent, I
must own ; you do tell him very plainly what
you think of him.'

Of course I do! and as for John's lectures,
I am accustomed to them by now. They
mean nothing, except that we are great
friends more than cousins ; In fact, brother
and sister.'

And how long, If I may ask, has the

fraternity been superadded to the cousinship
and the friendship ? It makes a complicated
relationship.'

It never was superadded. It has always
existed  for me.'

Always ?' echoed Jerome, vaguely displeased.


Yes, of course. I am nineteen, and John
is twenty-eight. When I was born, we
lived at Burnham, and so did the Leyburns.
Uncle Leyburn married papa's only sister,
and was his greatest friend. They lived at
Burnham too, then. John was nine years
old then, of course. The first, or one of the
very first things I can remember, is his
showing me pictures of birds  he is mad
about birds, you know  and taking me by
the hand for a little walk, and playing with
me in general. I suppose I was about three
years old then.'

And Leyburn twelve. He was that age
when I knew him, sixteen years ago. They
had just come to Abbot's Knoll. Yet I do

VOL. II. 21

not remember his ever saying anything about
you. Perhaps you occupied a smaller place
in his heart than you imagine.'

Oh no !' said Nata, with calm conviction.
He never talks much about things. He
would not be likely to talk about me. He
always gives his mind to what he is doing at
the moment ; and when he was playing and
learning lessons with you, he would not talk
about me. Besides, we were still at Burnham.
But he was always kind when he came
back to me. John taught me to read, and
implanted in my mind that love of light literature
which he now pretends to deplore  the
great humbug !'

Nata laughed a pleased little laugh, speaking
of a tender affection for the absent ' humbug.'
The course which the conversation had
taken grew less and less pleasing to Jerome.
He felt a strong desire to displace John from
his pedestal, or at least to make him, in vulgar
parlance, * step down a peg or two.' A spirit
of perverse folly took possession of him.



Leaning a little forward, and speaking in a
discreetly low voice, mindful of the groom
who sat behind, he rested his elbow on his
knee, and fixed his eyes on Nata's face,
saying :

Then he has never given you cause to
suppose that a sister's affection would hold a
secondary place in his thoughts ?'

'You speak ambiguously,' replied Nata,
occupied in guiding her horses through a
very narrow lane. ' Sister's affection  secondary
place ! I do not understand.'

Are sisters jealous when their brothers
marry ?'

Oh, I see ! Certainly not, if they have
any sense,' was the most decided answer ;
they may be angry, you know, if the wife
their brother chooses is disliked by them ;
but if they have no ground for disliking her,
they would be selfish and foolish, simply, to
be jealous when their brothers married.'

You say John Leyburn is your cousin
and your friend and your brother all in one.

21  2

Suppose he took it Into his head to get
married  he must be lonely in that great
house of his by the river.'

If John were to marry,' repeated Nata,
slowly and pensively.

Her hands were fully occupied ; for at this
moment they were driving down a steep hill,
and the romans were fresh. She could not
have hidden her face, had she wished to do so.
As her eyes met Jerome's, a quick flush rose
on her cheek  a flush which grew deeper.

If she cares for him, there can be no
danger in my asking questions ; she is in
no danger with me,' thought Wellfield, with
characteristic indolence, and also with a
characteristic wish to find out whether she
'cared' irrevocably for John Leyburn. And
he said :

If John were to marry  yes. What is to
hinder him ? Would his wife consider him
your brother ? Would she see it in the same
light, do you think ?'

She would be a very nasty girl if she did

not,' said Nata, with a heightened colour and
flashing eyes, ' when I should do all in my
power to be kind to her.'

Oh, you would do all In your power to
accomplish that ? Then you would not mind
if John got married ?'

I should mind it very much If his wife
were such an odious woman as you seem to
think she would be. stepping in and
destroying '

The friendship of a lifetime ; breaking
every social tie, and so on. Let us put it In
another light. Suppose he married, and
married some one of so generous a disposition
as to wish him not to lose his sister '

I should not call that generous, but merely
decent and reasonable.'

Well, he marries this decent, reasonable
woman, and then you marry. Do you think
your husband would look upon John in the
light of a brother ?'

Mr. Wellfield, what strange questions you
ask !'

'Not at all. You would have to consider
the subject when you married.'

But I am not going to be married. I
know papa thinks I shall have to, but I don't
intend it at all.'

Intentions have less than nothing to do
with such a matter. When you fall in love
with some one, and he asks you to marry
him, you will do so of course, since you are
neither a nun, nor a lunatic, nor in any way
a perverse or ill-conditioned person,' he
answered tranquilly, while Nata looked at
him in startled amazement, her heart beating:
with the same strange sense of a thrilling
emotion as she had this morning experienced.
In all their nineteen years of
brother and sisterhood, John had never dared
was ' dared' the word to use 1 No  it had
never occurred to John to speak to her in
such a manner as did this man whom she had
first met yesterday. Yet she did not feel
resentment towards him, though she tried to
think she did, and answered as if she did,

How can you speak to me in that manner?
As if I had no strength of will  as if I were
an idiot.'

Not at all ; but as if you were, what you
are  a woman, and a good one he replied.
Then, before she could answer, he went on :
But I think you want to shirk my question.
Miss Bolton. You are afraid to look your
position fairly in the face.'

I don't see it.'

You have not told me what you would do
in case the man you married refused, or was
unable to see, John Leyburn in the pure
white light of brotherhood.'

I don't see the use of discussing such
wildly improbable contingencies. But'  she
suddenly burst into a laugh  ' if the worst
came to the worst, I should have to sink
John to the rank of a friend and cousin. He
would have to  well, he would have to
manage as well as he could. But you are
very unkind to shatter my little day-dream in
that way  so wantonly, too ! You are the

first person who ever cared to shake me out
of my pleasant delusion. I have always
looked upon John as a brother.'

Very pleasant for him, as I think I
observed before.'

Why only for him, pray ? I owe far
more to him than he owes to me. He has
made me better and wiser than I ever should
have been without him ; not that I am much
to boast of in the matter either of wisdom or
goodness ; but most of what little I have I
owe to John. And then, he is almost my
only friend.'

Perhaps that is a matter in which I may
find cause for rejoicing ?'

'You!' echoed Nata, turning suddenly to
him, and finding his sombre eyes fixed upon
her face. She turned her own quickly away
again. ' I don't understand,' she said, a little
confusedly.

'Yes, I ; even I. If you had had many
friends and many claims upon your time and
your attention, would you have had leisure todo

all the kind things you have performed forme
in the short time since I came here ?  to
think all the kind thoughts which I know you
have thought ? Should I have been able to
endure being under your father's roof if I had
found you engrossed with others  looking
upon me as an alien and an interloper, instead
of treating me as you have done ? It would
have maddened me, I think. No ; do not
try to deny your own goodness. I have felt
it every hour since I met you ; and to one in
my position, every kind thought and gentle
action on the part of others is as another bead
added to one's string of pearls.'

Nata was perfectly silent. Her under-lip
quivered a little. Tears rushed to her eyes
and blinded her. She had kept up all along
a brave show of light-heartedness and carelessness
; but Wellfield had laid his spell upon
her from the first moment of meeting him.
So long as he merely talked nonsense to her,
she could appear indifferent. The moment
he touched deeper springs, her heart gave

way, and her outward gaiety collapsed. They
were both absorbed  both In danger. Nata
was struggling to choke back her emotion ;
but the thought of this poor, proud, lonely
fellow at her side, disinherited, and grateful
even for her goodness, was an overpowering
one. Wellfield himself was watching her
with an agreeable sensation of power.

At this juncture, while Nata's hands retained
scarcely any hold on the reins, they slowly
turned a sharp corner in the road, arriving at
the summit of a hill, and were suddenly confronted
by a panting, groaning, snorting
traction-engine, industriously toiling up the
hill with two huge trucks full of blocks of
white stone ; and urged onwards by Its engineer
and stoker with loud phrases and ejaculations
as If It had been a living creature.

Nata's romans failed to recognise any kinship
In this strange and hideous monster. They
shied, swerved, plunged for a moment ; then
bolting, tore along the short space of level
ground at the top of the hill, and proceeded

to rush at full gallop down the next Incline.
Jerome saw that Nata turned suddenly pale,
and set her teeth. She knew what was coming,
and he did not. She tightened her hold
on the reins, but the romans were young and
strong and fresh ; her wrists were small and
slender. They dashed round the first curve
of the road, and from Nata's lips escaped a
low ' Ah !' as they saw before them a straight
steep hill, at the bottom of which was a deep
mill-dam, then a mill-race, rushing swiftly
along ; a narrow stone-bridge spanned the
stream at the foot of the hill, and on the
opposite side rose another hill as steep as the
one down which they were tearing.

Jerome quickly laid his hand on her wrist.
Personal cowardice in moments like this was
not among-st his faults.

o

'Let them alone!' said Nata, between her
teeth. ' They don't know your hand : you
shall not touch them.'

Without a word, he put forth his other
hand, broke her clenched fingers apart, as if

they had been straws, and took the ribbons
from her hold. The frantic animals fel a
new hand  a firmer, but a fresh one, and for
the moment their terror Increased. Down
the hill they flew, and the carriage swayed ominously
to and fro. Jerome with a side-glance
saw the face of the girl beside him, whlte as
death. She did not clutch at the rail, or In
any way try to hold herself fast, but clenched
her hands before her on her knees, and
looked towards the mill-race  towards the
deep, green pool above the bridge and the
foaming fall below It, and to the grey-stone
mill sleeping peacefully on the other side.

Then Jerome perceived that, lumbering
slowly towards them on the bridge, were two
large worries, piled with bales of cotton goods,
and he knew that to run Into them meant
death. All the despondency he had felt  all
the wish to be rid of life and Its unasked-for,
uncalled-for burdens disappeared, and only
the desire to conquer this Impending fate
remained behind. He found himself mechanically

measuring either side of the road, to
see If there was no side-way  no escape
from the end to which they seemed to be
rushing, and his hold on the reins tightened
and softened till It orrew to a strain In which
he expended all his strength.

They were within twenty yards of the
bridge, and as yet he had seen no way out
of It. He saw every slightest action of all
around him, and It recorded Itself as Indelibly
upon his consciousness as If he had had hours
of leisure in which to observe It all. He saw
how the two stolid-looking carters suddenly
became aware of the nature of the position 
saw them cast up their hands and run to their
horses' heads, to pull them as far to one side
as possible.

Idiots !' he thought, ' as if that would
do any good !' and even as he thought It,
he perceived to the left hand of the road a
square embrasure, such as Is found in the
north of England frequently, though I know
not if they exist in the south. In such an

embrasure the stones are piled up which the
breakers have to operate upon, and in this
particular one were piles of stones already
broken : it was walled round, and below the
wall the bank of the field sloped steeply down.
If he could not rein in the horses, and they
leaped the wall, the results were not agreeable
subjects of contemplation, but even they
would be less dreadful than the gruesome
fate proffered by the mill-race and the little
stone bridge.

He succeeded in turning the horses into
the embrasure, and they, confronted suddenly
by a four-feet high stone wall, plunged
madly, and attempted to force their way
out again. But the hand that held them
had at last mastered them. They were
curbed. Dancing about in the narrow space,
they were forced to contain themselves, till
the groom jumped down, and one of the
carters, coming forward, took their heads, and
v Jerome was at last free to guide them back
to the road, and to look at his companion.

Now that the dancer was over she had
broken down. Her face was burled In her
hands, and she was shaking with hysterical
sobs. Jerome bent over her, removed her
hands from her face, and said in a gentle,
authoritative voice :

Were you afraid ? Look up ! It Is over
now.'

Oh, my God !' she gasped. ' It was my
carelessness. They want careful driving,
but they never shy If one keeps a firm hand,
and I was not holding them in at all  oh, I
thought I had killed you !'

My dear child, don't let that distress you !'
he exclaimed, still In the same low voice.

The two carters were now holding the
horses' heads, while the groom looked to see
If any damage had been done to the phaeton,
and staring with stupid, yet well-meant compassion
upon the young lady, whose agitation
to them was quite accounted for, women not
being reckoned very courageous amongst
such as them.

Don't, don't say so !' she exclaimed, in uncontrollable
agitation. * I shall never forget
it. I thought I saw you in the water, drowning.'


There was an ominous sound as of an
hysterical laugh mingling with her sobs.

You must control yourself,' said he, composedly,
' and get out of the phaeton for a
short time. We will walk about a little, and
go into the mill, and you can rest there.' He
jumped oat, and took her hand. ' Suppose
you alight,' he added, in a voice which was in
reality a command.

Nata stepped slowly forth, and wavered a
little as she touched the ground. Jerome
seated her on one of the stonehenge, and then
got into the phaeton. The horses were now
perfectly quiet, but trembling and bathed in
sweat.

Thank you,' he said to the men, giving
them some money. ' We need not keep you
any longer.'

Eh, but master, thou tak's it uncommon

cool said one of them, apparently desirous
of improving the occasion. 'Dost know
thou wert nigh on being done for for ever in
yon pond ?'

I know all about it,' said Jerome, soothingly
touching the horses' necks.

It were a miracle as thou comet na' to
grief o'er yon wa', too,' pursued he ; ' them's
skittish critters, I reckon.'

Skittish or not, I can manage them, and
worse than they are. Good-day, friends. I
am obliged to you.'

Dismissed thus curtly, the men were fain
to move their worries out of the way, thus
leaving room for Jerome, followed by the
groom, to drive the phaeton across the
bridge and into the stable-yard of the corn-mill
on the other side the water. He related
what had happened, and soon received the
miller's permission to leave the horses therefor
quarter of an hour, until Miss Bolton was
sufficiently recovered to proceed. Then,
leaving the man with the horses, he went

VOL. II. 2 2

back again to Nata, and found her seated
where he had left her, and sobbing still now
and then.

My dear Miss Bolton, you must try to
control yourself, or you will make yourself
ill, and alarm your father needlessly.'

Alarm my father !' she said, looking up ;
what does alarm matter, after that deadly
fear } I tell you, I felt as If I saw your face
sinking beneath the pond there  all through
me ! Oh, it was horrible ! It haunts me.'

It Is pure Imagination. You were on
that side, remember. Think what would
have been my feelings if I had had to go
home and tell Mr. Bolton that his daughter
was drowned !'

It would have served me right. I knew
the horses. I knew they shied if one did
not keep them well in.'

Did you ? Well, you see, I managed to
restrain them, even after they had shied.
Never mind my precious personality, I implore
you. You are safe !'

I  miserable little wretch that I am !' exclaimed
Nata, in so deep, so profoundly bitter a
voice that he was surprised out of all caution.

Nay  that is a strange thing to say,' he
remarked. ' It would never do for poor old
Wellfield to lose all its heirs. What would
have become of it if you had been drowned ?
For my sake, don't talk in that way.'

Ah !' she exclaimed passionately, ' do not
reproach me with that. Do you suppose
that I shall ever again have one moment's
pleasure in that idea } After knowing you 
what do you take me for ?'

I take you to be nervous and unstrung,
and over-anxious. And I am sure it is my
duty to get you home as soon as possible.
Come ! The carriage is at the other side of
the bridge.'

Oh, it is impossible to go in the carriage
again. I will walk. I am an excellent
walker, and it is only four miles.'

And I ?'

'You will walk too, with me. The groom

2 2  2

will bring back the carriage when the horses
are fit to come.'

And what if I think it better to drive,
and make a point of your driving with me ?'

She looked up in some surprise, and found
him calmly surveying her in a manner which
left no doubt as to his meaning. He was
overruling her, and he Intended to be
obeyed. She rebelled, momentarily.

Really, you are very  my nerves '

Are quite strong enough to carry you
home, and point out to me the way round by
Clyderhow, which is the road I Intend to
take to Wellfield Abbey. There is no
reason why you should not do your shopping
too,' he added, gently.

'Impossible!' said Nata, in so decided a
voice that he at once resolved that it should,
on the contrary, become possible. With the
exercise of power grew the delight in it.
Cost what It might, Nata should go to Cly-
derhow, and do her shopping, because he
wished it. He knew perfectly well that he

had flirted with her, and had drawn her
attention from her horses. He knew that
she would not have been wrong had she reproached
him with having caused the accident
; but he was resolved that, far from
that, she should continue to accuse herself,
and the power and authority should remain
on his side as before.

Can you not trust me ?' he asked. ' I will
take great care of you. If you refuse, I
shall know that you are offended, and have
lost all confidence in me.'

His voice was soft, his accent gentle and
caressing ; the expression on his lips and in
his dark eyes had something in it partaking
of tenderness. It all subdued Nata's reluctance,
and laid her fear, as it were, under a
spell. Within the last day life and her own
identity had grown strange to the girl. She
knew herself no more. But she still hesitated,
till Jerome said :

By this I shall know whether I have lost
your confidence or not. If you let me drive

you to Clyderhow, / shall not forget to keep
a firm hand on the reins.'

Nata rose. ' I will do as you wish,' she
said, with a tremor of the lip.

Thank you, dear Miss Bolton,' he replied,
a tone of exultation in his voice, as he drew
her hand through his arm, and placing his
other hand upon it as if to steady her, he led
her across the bridge to the mill.

In a very short time they were in the
phaeton, with Wellfield on this occasion in the
driver's seat, and Nata, subdued and soothed,
was pointing out the way to him.

They presently arrived in the main street
of the town of Clyderhow, when Nata made a
last abortive attempt to escape from the shopping
expedition. But Jerome would not
allow it.

You are quite recovered,' he said. ' You
are not going to faint. And you said you
wanted a bonnet like your aunt's, with five
ostrich feathers in it.'

I never did !' cried Nata, indignation getting

the better of reluctance. ' I think Aunt
Margaret's taste in bonnets is horrible.'

Well, which is the shop ? I shall consider
myself entitled to go in and preside over the
purchase, under the circumstances.'

That is the shop at the end of the street,
if you will go. But I am in no state to buy
bonnets.'

No ?' he said, looking at her, intently. * I
should have thought  well, you do look a
little pale, perhaps. But I shall be able to tell
you what suits you. Here we are.'

He handed her out, and pushing open the
shop-door, he stood by for her to pass :
then followed, saw her sudden start and
recoil, and heard the exclamation :

Aunt Margaret !'

The deuce !' murmured Jerome, discomfited
for the moment ; but instantly recovering
himself, he too advanced, and, like Nata, confronted
Miss Margaret Shuttle worth.

She looked very stern and terrible. She
was standing upright before a tall glass, attired

In the full panoply requisite for a visit to
town  perfectly upright, and perfectly self-possessed.
One article only of her attire was
wanting, and that was her bonnet, which lay
on a chair hard by, while over her straight
grey hair was visible a little black silk cap,
such as elderly ladies wear, or did wear, beneath
their bonnets  and which cap, when
not yet covered by the superior headdress,
imparts a look of hardness to the gentlest
countenance. Its effect upon the severe features
of Miss Shuttle worth gave an additional
terror to her glance, and additional sternness
to her eye. A slight young woman held in
her hand a bonnet, which she was apparently
about to place upon Miss Shuttle worth's head,
when that lady, \ith a wave of the hand,
stopped her, and replied to Nata's astonished
exclamation :

Yes, it is Aunt Margaret. What of that }'
Nothing, aunt dear. But I was so astonished
to see you I thought you had got
a bonnet.'

So I had, but it does not suit me. Put it
on now,' to the young woman, who trembled
visibly, but who obeyed at once.

It was undoubtedly the bonnet, and it sat
upon Miss Shuttle worth's head like a plume
upon a hearse. No other comparison is for a
moment admissible. Slowly, and with dignity,
she turned her head this way and that ;
and before formulating her objections, condescended
to greet Wellfield.

Good-afternoon, Mr. Wellfield. Have
you come to help my niece to choose a
bonnet T

Yes,' said Jerome, composedly.

I am sure you look as if you would give
her valuable assistance in such a matter,' was
the reply, ambiguous in its nature. Was it
to be considered complimentary, or otherwise
? Jerome, with a gravity as imperturbable
as her own, said he should feel highly
honoured if he could be of any use to Miss
Shuttleworth in the same matter. She turned
away with a jerk. Having always had a

monopoly In the sphere of disagreeable, if
dubious remarks, she did not appreciate this
intrusion on a province peculiarly her own.

Nata,' she said, sharply, ' don't you see
what is wrong with this bonnet ? It's like a
plume on a hearse.'

It suits you admirably, Miss Shuttleworth,'
said Jerome, blandly.

'You must alter the feathers,' said Miss
Shuttleworth to the young woman ; ' you
must make them lie flatter. You understand
what I mean. Otherwise I shall never enter
your shop again. Now, Nata,' as she removed
the bonnet, and reached her hand for
her old one, ' what do you want ? Let us see
whether, with Mr. Wellfield's assistance, we
cannot find something suitable. Poor John
never could have helped anyone to choose a
bonnet,' she added, pointedly.

Nata's face flushed. Miss Shuttleworth
continued to say disagreeable things, and
Nata to grow more and more embarrassed, and
the more disagreeable the one became, and

the more confused the other, the more utterly
calm and self-possessed remained Jerome
Wellfield ; nor did he allow a single sharp
speech of Miss Shuttle worth's to go unanswered,
nor did he abstain from paying a
single compliment to Nata, In consideration of
the new and discordant element Introduced.
The whole affair, a mere joke at the commencement,
had grown more serious ; for
Jerome's manner, In proportion as he was
goaded by Miss Shuttle worth's shafts, grew
more ;;//ri-i-/ towards Nata, while she, confused
with the danger they had passed
through, Intoxicated and bewildered by the
look which occasionally met hers when she
encountered Jerome's eyes, anxious to conceal
all her emotion from her aunt, scarcely
knew where she was or what she was doing.
Nothing suited her: at last she threw off a
bonnet which the young woman had tried heron,
and said hastily and decidedly that she
would call again another day. She was tired,
and could not decide upon anything then.

Not even with Mr. Wellfield's help ?' inquired
Miss Shuttleworth, blandly.

As if Mr. Wellfield cared anything about
bonnets !' said Nata, sharply. ' Can't you see
when you are being laughed at, aunt ?'

Nata!' ejaculated Miss Shuttleworth, in a
tone of the utmost pain and astonishment.

But Nata was already on her way out of
the shop. Jerome spoke to Miss Shuttle-worth
:

Miss Bolton is upset,' he said. ' We have
had a serious accident, and only just escaped
with our lives. She is unnerved.'

I don't understand it at all,' said Aunt
Margaret, all her pugnacity gone, and looking
as she felt, perfectly bewildered.

 I am sure Miss Bolton will explain later,'
he continued. Miss Shuttleworth looked at
him, as if wondering who and what he was
that he should thus take upon himself to make
explanations ; but with a stiff ' Good-afternoon,'
she went out at the door, and he
followed her.

Nata saw her, and asked if she would not
drive home with them. Miss Shuttleworth
was on the point of refusing with decision and
asperity, but something in her so-called
niece's ' look caught her observant eye  a
weariness, a whiteness, a languor. She said :

I don't mind if I do. That's to say, if
you leave me in peace to the back seat, for I
hate the front one unless I know the driver.'

Sit where you like, aunt,' was the reply,
as Jerome came forward and offered his help.

But Miss Shuttleworth refused, and unaided
clambered up to the back seat, presenting
a liberal allowance of very spare leg and
white cotton stocking to the enraptured view
of Miss Sanford's young ladies, who, from
the work-room on the second floor, were
gazing down upon the proceedings with the
interest interest, and speculating with a
burning curiosity as to who that gentleman
could be who had driven up with Miss Anita
Bolton of the Abbey ; who handed her into
the phaeton with such assiduous care, and bent

over her with such a look of attention as he
spoke a word to her before driving off.

He looks like a foreigner,' and ' He's very
handsome,' were the most definite and the
most general conclusions arrived at.

Meantime the phaeton drove ofT, and
arrived at the Abbey without further misadventure.
Miss Shuttleworth intimated her
intention of coming in and staying supper.
Jerome whispered to Nata :

You will go upstairs and take some rest
before supper, for ny sake ! And I will find
Mr. Bolton and tell him : no, I will not alarm
him too much. Do not fear. Will you promise
to rest ?'

Yes,' said Nata, faintly, as he helped her
down, and she and her aunt went upstairs
together.

THE WORKING OF THE SPELL.

Not that the play is worth much, but it is finely acted.
. . But that which did please me more than anything in
the whole world was the musique when the angell comes
down ; which is so sweet that it ravished me. . . Neither
then nor all the evening I was able to think of anything,
but remained all night transported.'  Pepys' Diary.

EST and quiet, it seemed, were not
to fall immediately to Nata's lot.
She conducted Miss Shuttleworth
to her room, and sat down in an easy-chair
while that lady made her slow and lengthy, if
not elaborate, toilette for the evening.
'What's the meaning of all this, Nata ?'
All what, aunt .'
This driving about with young Wellfield,

and having accidents, and losing your temper
you, of all people, and insulting your old
aunt, and looking miserable ?'

I don't know why you should seek to
attach any meaning at all to it. I was driving
carelessly, when we suddenly met a traction
engine coming up the hill ; the horses bolted,
and but for Mr. Wellfield's getting the reins
into his own hands  but for his courage and
coolness, we should both have been dead
now. Surely that is enough to unnerve
anyone !'

'' Then if you were so unnerved, what
induced you to go to the bonnet-shop in
Clyderhow ?'

I overrated my strength, I suppose, and
in the joy of being safe imagined myself less
shaken than I really was.'

Humph !'

Miss Shuttle worth went to the drawer In
Nata's wardrobe, which was sacred to the caps
she always wore at the Abbey. Looking
through her store, she carefully selected a

yellow and green one ; the most intrinsically
hideous and intrinsically least suited to her
style of beauty of any of the collection, and
then she returned to the glass to put it on.

Don't fall in love with Mr. Jerome Well-held,
Nata. Let him fall in love with you if
he likes ; but don t yoii- do it,' she said, deliberately.


Aunt Margaret ! do you want to insult
me ?' she asked, sitting up, pale and breathless
with anger.

Not at all. I want to warn you. He is
very romantic-looking  reminds one of
Byron's heroes, only more agreeable in
general society than they would have been ;
but depend upon it, my dear, it is all looks.
No Wellfield ever had a heart for anyone but
himself.' I

Oh, I am so tired of listening to that old
story, aunt ! You would not say a good word
for the Wellfields to save your life. Such
constant abuse makes one begin to take the
side of those who are abused.'

VOL. II. 23

Ah, I fear you are very far gone already !*

How dare you ! How dare you speak tome
in such a manner ! Pray, what have you
seen In my manner to Mr. Wellfield to make
you assert such a monstrous thing ?'

Plenty, and I hear plenty more in your
voice now,' was the unmoved, unwavering retort.
' And all that an old woman like me
can do, is to keep on warning and warning.
Don't fall in love with him, Nata ; for if you
do, it will bring nothing but disaster. He is
not of the kind that makes loving and faithful
husbands.'

When you are quite ready, I shall be glad
if you will leave me alone,' replied Nata, composedly
; ' or if you do not choose to leave
me, I will leave you, and go to some other
room. I am tired, and want to rest before I
come down to supper. All that you say is
utterly without foundation, and it makes me
very unhappy.'

That is odd, if it is without foundation,'
said Miss Margaret, fastening on a huge lace

collar with the utmost tranquillity. ' I will
say no more to-night, but I shall consider it
my duty to repeat my warning at intervals.
You are the only young relation I have, and
I should think it wrong to do less. All I say
now, is, never marry a Wellfield in the hope
of happiness.'

With that she left the room. Nata was
alone. Perhaps she rested ; perhaps not.
She threw off her hat, pushed her hair back
from her aching temples, and buried her hot
and throbbing brow in her hands. She felt
no inclination to weep now : only a kind of
feverish, breathless excitement, as the scene
with the runaway horses again started vividly
up before her mind's eye, and she could think
of nothing else ; could only live over again
what had seemed the long eternity of agony
she had felt as they rushed down the hill,
before Jerome had succeeded in turning the
horses aside, and so saving them. It was a
scene which she knew would be present with
her for days, perhaps weeks. Added to that,

232

the subtle inexplicable meaning in Wellfield's
eyes, in the tone of his voice, and in the
touch of his hand ; then the home-coming,
and her aunt's calm, monotonous, even-toned
voice, as she repeated her warnings  warnings,
the remembrance of which made the
blood rush hotly to her face, then madly back
to her heart, causing it to beat wildly, and
leaving her pale and trembling. She felt
absolutely ill. Should she send an excuse,
and not go to the drawing-room again tonight
? No ; certainly not. She would not
let anyone see how foolish she was. If she
remained upstairs John would be uncomfortable,
and would miss her ; her father's
quiet evening with the savages would be
spoiled ; her aunt would wave her green and
yellow cap-ribbons in triumph, convinced that
her warnings had taken effect, and Wellfield
would think her a poor creature, while she 
would not see him, nor speak to him, nor touch
his hand again till tomorrow morning. She
started up, and began to make her toilette

with unusual slowness and care, and with fingers
which she could not compel not to tremble.
Downstairs she found, as she had expected,
John Leyburn, as well as Miss Margaret.
They were all in the drawing-room, and supper
was announced before she had answered
her father's inquiries or sat down. This gave
her the opportunity of retaining his arm, and
walking into the dining-room with him. The
meal seemed a long one. Nata was thankful
when it was over, and they went into the
drawing-room again. Wellfield did not immediately
come there. He said he was going
for a stroll by the river, and he went out at
the open hall-door into the garden. Mr.
Bolton was not a demonstrative man : he
went to his accustomed table with the reading-lamp,
and took up his book. Miss Shuttle-worth
pulled out a stocking, took a chair
(a straight-backed one, as might have been expected),
and knitted, with a still rocky severity
of countenance. John was arranging cushions
on a couch near the window.

Come here,' he said to Nata. ' You are
to He down, and I will sit beside you

I'm not tired,' said Nata.

Yes, you are,' he replied, smiling his good,
pleasant smile. ' Come here, or I put on my
hat and go home this moment.'

Home ! This is as much your home as
any other place,' she said, complying with his
behest.

More, since my sister Nata is in it.
There !' he added, taking his place beside her
as she lay down, and gave a long sigh of relief;
now tell me what you have been doing this
afternoon.'

That you may give one of your favourite
lectures, I suppose,' said Nata, smiling. But
by degrees she told him the history of the
afternoon's adventure, while it grew dark
within the room, and their voices sank lower,
and Mr. Bolton read on, and Miss Shuttle-worth's
needles clicked, clicked, as if they
went by clockwork.

Oh, John I how ashamed I was ! I could

not look him in the face murmured Nata, at
the end of this conversation.

'Ashamed of what?' asked John, in his
slow tones, and looking at her with his nearsighted
eyes.

Of my carelessness, my folly, which so
nearly cost him his life!'

'And you yours. I tell you what it is,
Nata ; it must have been a very engrossing
conversation that caused you to loose your
hold on the ribbons. Is it allowable to ask
what it was all about ?'

Partly about you,' replied Nata, surprised
into the admission by this sudden appearance
in John of an astuteness with which she had
not for a moment credited him.

About me ? What about me ?'

She was silent.

You won't say  or can't. Forgotten, perhaps.
I wonder if Wellfield has, too ? I'll
ask him.'

He will have forgotten too,' replied Nata

I thought as much,' said John, and silence
fell upon them too.

55- ' >k-5-JV

Wellfield wandered beside the river into
the fields  some broad, pleasant, open fields
where the river was wide, and formed a
broad, shallow, brawling kind of waterfall.
To-night there was a full moon, which, as
night fell, replaced the day with a softer
brilliance. He mused as he walked, not
with the heartless and the tumultuous agitation
which had shaken Nata, but with vague
wonder, and a vague repining. Why had he
not known of all this reverse of circumstances
a few months earlier, before he had met Sara
Ford and learnt to love her ? If Sara had
not been there, imperiously commanding his
love, how easy it would have been to accept
Father Somerville's outspoken counsel, to
make love to Nata Bolton (this with a calm
obliviousness or ignoring of the fact that
what he had done that afternoon was, if not
love-making, at least an excellent imitation of

It), marry her, and once more enjoy his own.
It was now quite impossible, of course, and
his Httle experiment this afternoon had just
sufficed to show him that had he only been
free. It might have been. He did not wish
to be free  not he ! Who would wish to be
free who was loved by Sara Ford ? But
surely it was not wrong to picture what might
have been if he had never met her. He
could not tell her of what might have been ;
but he wished she could know It  could know
what his love for her would stand, what hot
temptations, what fiery trials it would carry
him through unscathed.

And now, how to behave towards Nata .
Of course he must not deceive her : he must
try to enlighten her on the subject of his
engagement ; it was only fair. But not tonight
: she was too shaken and unstrung tonight
to bear more excitement  he tacitly
assumed that the revelation would cause excitement
to her  to-night he must be gentle
and quiet, and let her rest. So he argued

within himself, the truth being that to Jerome
Wellfield it was very much easier and Infinitely
pleasant to be on good than on evil terms
with a woman  with all women not absolutely
hideous, and that It was the most natural thing
in the world for him to treat any young woman,
especially If she happened to be the only one
there, as if she were the object of his most
special care and attention. Then too, he felt
himself welcome at the Abbey, and the sense
of this, and the luxury of the sympathy and
commiseration, the admiration and the pity
which Nata with every look, every gesture,
every tone of her voice, offered to him, lulled
him into a sensuous inactivity  the kind of
inactivity to which his nature was always
perilously prone. The pain of planning, and
considering, and of conning over adverse circumstances,
was great. The pleasure of half-dreamy
talk with a woman whom some inner
emotion made beautiful for the nonce, and who
he felt wore that passing loveliness because
he had called it there, and the pleasure of

being worshipped, silently yet subtly, was
also great, and very much easier to him
than the other alternative. To-morrow, he
thought, he would tell her about Sara; tonight
he would tell her about herself.

He went into the drawing-room, and found
the group which has already been described.
Nata's little whispered dispute with John was
over, and she lay still. The window was
open, and Jerome had entered by it. The
evening was warm, and at the Abbey in summer
they never drew the curtains ; and from
where Nata lay, they could see the trees outside
shimmering in the ghostly moonlight,
and the hoary grey walls of the cloisters
beside the river, and nearer, all the stiff quaint
flower-beds, and clipped yews, and oddly-shaped
shrubs and plants.

Mr. Bolton, at the other end of the room,
had a table and a little oasis of lamplight all
to himself, and was absorbed in a book of
travels. Nata was wont to say that her father
was not happy unless he daily made an excursion

to Burnham in piopiHa persona ; a
descent into Avernus with the assistance of
Dante the immortal, and an expedition in the
evening into some unheard-of corner of the
earth with some traveller, whose tales she
averred could not be too wonderful to be
credible ; in fact, the more improbable, the
better.

Except Mr. Bolton's reading-lamp, there
was no light in the room save moonlight ; and
the space was so great that the lamplight was
lost in the other rays.

There was silence as Jerome came in, and
just glanced at Nata's pale face, which looked
almost ghastly in the white moonlight. He
paused, and asked her if she felt rested.

Yes, thank you replied Nata, with a little
catching of her breath, which John at least
noticed. ' I am all right, but John is a tyrant,
and says if I get up he will go.'

Quite right, too,' observed Miss Shuttle-worth
from her corner.

'Would anyone like a light ?' asked Nata.

Oh, don't light up ! This moonlight is
heavenly. It only wants music to make It
complete,' said John. 'Wellfield, when you
were a precocious infant of eleven, at which
age I last knew you, you used to play tunes
on the piano, and sing little Italian songs,
which used to fascinate me. Have you forgotten
how?'

Not utterly, though I have no doubt fallen
off from the first engaging innocence of childhood.'


Well, won't you give us a specimen
said the benighted barbarian  ' If Nata is not
too tired ?' he added, turning to her.

I oh no ! if Mr. Wellfield will sing, I
should like It,' said Nata, utterly unconscious
that she was Invoking the most powerful of
the weapons of fascination possessed by her
hero, and anxious only to preserve a little
longer the friendly moonlight.

Certainly, if one could ever sing at all, one
would be able to do so In such a place, and
with such surroundings as these, observed

Jerome, carelessly, as he struck a chord or
two. ' Ah ! your piano Is a Bernstein, Miss
Bolton ; you might have Imported it on purpose
for me. All I stipulate is, that you will
cry '' Hold !" In a loud voice, when you have
had enough of It.'

He tried his hand with a half forgotten Impromptu
of Schubert's, and with each bar
that he played the old spirit came back to
him. He had not touched a note since the
night he had sung to Sara Ford, at Trockenau.
Did he remember it ? It may be so, but If he
did, he carefully abstained from giving any of
the songs he had sung on that eventful night.
Perhaps the present audience were not
worthy. At first he did not sing at all, but
wandered on through some strange, cobwebby
melodies of Schumann and Chopin  strange
melodies, such as had probably never before
palpitated through that ancient room, since it
was first built, for an abbot's refectory. At
first he thought he would not sing at all ; but
with the flow of sound, and the exercise of

the beloved art, the old intoxication and
exaltation stole gradually over him. He
paused a moment, struck a couple of weirdly
sounding minor chords, and sang the strangely
suggestive lines beginning :

O Death, that makes life so sweet !
O Fear, with mirth before thy feet !
What have ye yet in store for us ?
The conquerors, the glorious?'

If he wished to recall to Nata's mind their
perils of the afternoon, he succeeded most
thoroughly in doing so. It all rushed over
her mind again, overpoweringly, and the
whole truth of it. She knew as she heard
his voice that never, never had life been so
sweet as when, the danger over, she had
seen Jerome Wellfield standing at her side,
and had heard his voice, though scarcely
comprehending what he said.

So he sang on, song after song ; each one
with fresh verve and fresh pleasure  with a
purer delight in the exercise of his power.
Almost at haphazard, he sang the songs and

the scenes which he best remembered, just as
they came into his mind  Faust making love
to Marguerite, and the Troubadour invoking
Leonora ; one Httle German love-song after
another  ' Du bist wie eine still Sterne
' made the tears rush blindingly to
Nata's eyes. John Leyburn still sat beside
her couch : he leaned back in his chair, and
the music wrought pleasant visions in his
mind, together with a casual wonder whether
Wellfield had never thought of going on the
stage, where his voice would certainly have
made him a fortune md brought him fame to
boot. ' But he would consider it degrading,
I suppose,' thought John. ' I fear he is an
out-and-out Tory.' Miss Shuttle worth ceased
to knit, folded her listened hands one over the
other upon her knee, and appeared at least to
listen. The green and yellow cap-ribbons
were portentously still, but no sign appeared
upon her countenance of either approval or
disapproval.

Mr. Bolton, who had at first scarce been

conscious of what was going on, slowly and
gradually emerged from an imaginary career
over the arid plains of the Pampas, over which
he had been in fancy galloping madly, hotly
pursued by a number of vindictive South
American savages, whose arrows threatened
death in the rear, while before him was a deep
and rapid river, through which his exhausted
horse must swim, if he were to reach the
territory of the nearest friendly tribe, alive.
He gradually awoke to the consciousness that
music of no common order was being made in
his daughter's drawing-room. He did not
quite understand it all  suddenly he heard
Italian words which he recognised  passionate,
tragic words :

Per pieta non dirmi addib !
Non dirmi addib !
Dita priva che faro ?
Dita priva che faro ?'

He felt that they were beautiful ; their passion
and their fire stirred the blood in his
veins. He listened to the glorious end of a

VOL. II. 24

glorious scena, and then he shut up his book
and waited for more. Then it was that Well-field
turned to something quite different, and

sang :

Du bist wie eine still Sternennacht,
Ein swiss' Geheimniss rust auf deinem Monde,
In dines drunken Auges feuchtem Gmnde,
Ici weiss es wool, und nehm' es wool in Act,
Du bist wie eine still Sternennacht'

It is an exquisite romance, and he sang It
to perfection. To Mr. Bolton's mind It
brought, as well It might, remembrances
thronging fast of youth and love, and of a
time when he had been young, and when he
had wandered through the lanes of Wellfield
on his Saturday half-holiday, or for his Sunday
out, with a girl on his arm, whose presence
was his paradise. In short, Mr. Bolton soon,
to his own profound astonishment, found tears
stealing from his eyes. He was thinking of
himself, and of his own far-back joys and
sorrows ; he was In a twilight land, where he
had long been a stranger  a country which

all of US know, and which yet none of us
with bodily eyes have seen  the country
which is illumined by ' the light that never
was on sea or land'  the country in which
strange plants grow  dried flowers to wit,
and locks of hair tied up with faded ribbons,
and bundles of old letters  the kingdom of

o

romance.

Nata had changed her position ; she had
turned over on her side, with her face towards
the sofa-back, so that it could not be seen.
Her handkerchief was pressed against her
mouth, her temples throbbed, her eyes were
closed. She lay quite still, save that now
and then a slight shiver shook her from her
head to her feet. If it filled John Leyburn's
good honest heart with sweet, vague dreams
which he had never known before, if it wafted
her dry, business-like, prosaic father back into
a nearly-forgotten land of faery and of dreams,
what did it not do for her, attuned by nature
as she was, to passion and romances and how
was she ever to find peace or freedom again ?

24  2

The last thing that Jerome sung was
Helter's glorious song, Inflict in tanto
affani. When he had finished it, when the
last piercing, heart-breaking notes had died
away, the despairing

Ho, perdue !
II mio tesoro !
T'lttu tutti fini !'

he rose quickly from the piano, and closed it,
observing :

I quite forgot myself I am afraid I have
been inflicting myself upon you.'

John Leyburn rose too.

What a lucky dog you are, Wellfield, to
have that voice. Amongst more impressionable
people than the English, you could
charm hearts away with it, I am sure.'

I do not understand music,' observed
Aunt Margaret, rising also, 'and I am going.'

Mr. Bolton's voice then came from afar,
pedantic and particular as usual.

'We are very much indebted to you, Mr.
Wellfield. You have given us a very great

treat, and I sincerely hope you will favour us
in the same way on some other occasion.'

With which he pulled his lamp up to him
again, and re-opened his book.

Nata, I am going. John will see me
home,' said Miss Shuttleworth, while John,
stooping over Nata, remarked :

My child, you appear to have collapsed
altogether.'

Aunt Margaret had gone upstairs to take
off the green and yellow cap ; Nata turned
round, and sat up. Her face was pale, and
there was an expression of suffering upon it.

I tell you what it is,' said John, ' you
want a little fresh air, Nata. Suppose you
and Wellfield come with Aunt Margaret and
me to the gate. You are afraid to go alone,
you know, being such a coward.'

Nata smiled faintly.

Here's a shawl,' pursued John. ' I'll put
it round your shoulders  so.'

She passively allowed him to fold the little
cashmere about her shoulders, and when

Aunt Margaret came down, and handed John
her umbrella to carry, she called out :

Papa, Mr. Wellfield and I are going to
see the others to the gate.'

Folly !' observed Miss Shuttle worth,
casually, but no one took any notice of her.
They all went out at the window together,
Nata with her hand through John's arm.

They went lingeringly through the garden,
and down the river walk to the great
cavernous gateway called ' Abbot's Gate.'
It was indeed a glorious night, one in a
thousand, perfect, still, and clear, and around
them was everything which can add to the
glamour and beauty of a moonlight night.

They parleyed a few moments with John
and Miss Shuttle worth at the gate, and then
it was shut after them with a loud resounding
clang, which echoed through the hollow archway.
They were alone again.

Draw the big bolt,' said Nata, scarcely
above a whisper, ' then we shall know it is
safe.'

Safe from whom ? Leyburn, or Miss
Shuttleworth  or both ?' asked Wellfield.

From all  all evil things,' answered
Nata.

Complimentary to them,' he said, lightly,
finding the big bolt, and drawing it without
difficulty. He knew it of old, and having
pushed it to its place, they stood within the
dark space, and looked at the flood of grey,
moonlight which bathed the river walk that
stretched before them.

Jerome drew Nata's arm through his, and
they passed out of the darkness into that
moonlight. Nata turned her steps towards
a small wicket, leading by a nearer path to
her home, and the drawing-room window.

You don't mean to go that way, and leave
the river walk, and this glorious moonlight!'
he exclaimed. * That would be a sin. It is
not late. Come this way.'

For a moment she wavered ; then turned
and went with him.

Jerome did not confess it to himself, but

down in the depths of his heart he knew he
was doing what was base.

They went very slowly along the grassy
walk, on which the dew lay like grey
gossamer in the moon-rays, and for a little
time neither spoke, till Jerome said softly :

*Will you trust me to drive you another
day, Miss Bolton ?'

I ? Why not ?' said Nata, faintly.

'Will you promise to go out with me
another day, that I may be sure you have
forgiven me my carelessness .''

I  is there anything to forgive }'

I think so. If I had not been talking
sentimental nonsense to you, you would not
have forgotten to look after your horses, and
then '

Do not let us say any more about it,' said
she. ' I shall never forget it to my dying
day, but I hate to think of it.'

It has shaken you sadly ; but will you go
out with me another day ?'

Oh yes ! To-morrow if you like.

That is truly good of you,' said he, softly.
Your shawl is not warm enough,' he added,
stopping, as she shivered a little, and he
altered it and folded it more closely about her.
As they stood there, his eyes looked into hers,
and by the moonlight he saw that hers were
full of fear, and that her face was white, and
her expression one of pain.

I ought not to have brought you out,' he
said, regretfully.

No ; I think I should like to go in again,
please,' said Nata.

You shall, now that I know how good
you are,' he answered, lifting up the hand
that lay upon his arm, and stooping his beautiful
head towards it, he touched the tips of
her fingers with his lips. ' What a long time
it seems since we walked here this morning,'
he added, ' does it not ?'

A very long time,' responded Nata, in a
voice of exceeding weariness.

They entered the drawing-room again, and
Wellfield, speaking to Mr. Bolton, said :

I am sure Miss Bolton ought not to sit up
any longer. She has been more shaken than
she will own by her accident this afternoon,
and '

Nata, say good-night, and go to bed,' said
her father, presenting her simultaneously with
a candle and a kiss. ' Here, shake hands
with her, Mr. Wellfield. Good-night, child.
Off with you.'

   w w

Nata, locked in her room, began her preparations
for writing. She had inscribed the
words :

How much I have to record ! What a
day this has been ! What a century of events
and emotions have been compressed into a
brief and fleeting fourteen or fifteen hours.
And how little I thought when '

She broke off abruptly, cast her pen down,
and started from her chair, pacing about the
room ; her hands before her face, and short,
tearless sobs now and then breaking from her
lips.

Oh ! what shall I do ?' she whispered.
What will become of me ? I believe I had
better have died before I had seen him. But
if he loved me  oh ! If God would let him
love me  what am I saying? . I am afraid.
I wish some one were here. I dare not be
alone.'

She opened the door softly. On the mat
before It lay Speedwell ; he raised his head,
blinked at her, and moved his great tall up
and down slowly.

'Speedwell, come In!' she whispered, beckoning
to him. The mastiff" obeyed. Nata locked
him into the room with her, and as he sat
looking up at her. Inquiring why she was
troubled, she cast her arms about his faithful
neck, and sobbed as if her heart would
break.

When the paroxysm was over, and she
looked at him, tears were coursing down
Speedwell's nose too.

You will never tell anyone, will you,
Speedwell ?' she muttered. ' You are wiser

and stronger than your mistress, old dog and
old friend.'

Speedwell watched beside the bed on which
his mistress passed a restless night ; her brain
full of the rapidly changing images of alternating
hope and anguish, rapture and despair
and love, with which her day had been filled.

When morning came, and she looked in
her glass, It showed her a very wan, whlte
face, with dark rings round the eyes, and a
piteous curve about the lips  a face changed
indeed from that which, if not beautiful, had
given joy to many, and had hitherto been
thought a sweet face by those who loved and
knew it best.

THE FIRST OF BRENTWOOD.

I found myself in a richly adorned temple, in which
incense was burning, where lights were twinkling above the
altar, and where the music was such as to ravish away my
very senses. And as I fell upon my knees, the choir, which
from its sweetness I could have thought celestial, repeated
many times in moving accents the wish of my heart  so
that it became verily a prayer  and I poured out my soul
in unison  dona nobis pacem

fj!|HE following day was Sunday, and
on the arrival of the letters, Jerome
found two for himself, one bearing
the Elberthal post-mark, the sight of which
made his heart beat. The other was directed
in a hand he did not know, but turning it
over, he saw printed on the flap of the
envelope * Brentwood.'

It must be from Somervllle, of course,'
he thought, opening It quickly, and his conjecture
was right.

My dear Mr. Wellfield,

Will you, If you have no other engagement,
and If the evening Is fine, come upto
Brentwood to the evening service ? I should
like to present you to the Superior, and we
shall be happy If you will remain and sup
with us.

Sincerely yours,

Pablo Somerville.'

This Invitation gave him a sense of relief,
inexplicable, but strong. With Father Somerville
he felt entirely at his ease ; felt that he
was understood, was not taken to be a hero,
or anything else that he really was not.
Here, at the Abbey, he had the very opposite
sensation. He knew that he was looked
upon In the light of an unusual and remarkable
phenomenon. He knew, for he had a keen.

sympathetic intuition in such matters, that Mr.
Bolton treated him with a respect he was not
wont to show to strangers  especially penniless
ones  that even Miss Shuttle worth s
pointed and elaborate incivility arose chiefly
from a feeling she had that he was dangerous.
John Leyburn alone appeared to preserve his
natural, deliberate, unembarrassed manner.

Nata  Jerome felt very uncomfortable when
he thought of Nata  very uncomfortable as
his eyes wandered from Sara Ford's handwriting
to Anita Bolton's face, which face he
saw was pale, and the reason of which pallor
he knew as well as if some one had arisen
and proclaimed it aloud to him. They were
all, without exception, under a false Impression
in regard to him. How easy, exclaims a
devoted adherent of right-doing, to remove
that false impression ! How very easy
casually to let them all know that he was
promised and vowed to another woman !
Was not the excuse there in the shape of
Sara's letter ? Why not mention that It was

from the girl he was engaged to ? What
easier ? Ah ! what to some natures ? And
to others what more difficult ? Unfortunately
it was difficult to Jerome. He did resolve, ashe
looked at Nata that morning, and saw the
difficulty she had in meeting his eyes, that he
would not make love to her any more ; that
he would be cold to her even. Such natures
as his are given to making such resolutions in
momentary silence and reflectiveness ; and
when the moment comes for not making love,
for displaying coldness, they never recognise
it ; it is always ' not now, another time !' And
this, not for fear of hurting a woman's feelings,
though they would say so, even to themselves,
but because the flattery of a woman's love is
too sweet a dram to be forborne. It was
easy for Jerome Wellfield as he sat exchanging
commonplaces at the breakfast-table with
Nata  and Nata's father  to swear to himself
that such commonplaces alone should be the
yea, yea, and the nay, nay, of his entire conversation
with her. When the moment came,

in which he found himself alone with her, or
apart with her, the old trick of the eyes, the
old smoothness of the tongue slips back again,
as if by some fatality. So long as she believes
him he will make love to her ; so long as she
will worship him, he will accept the worship,
and will delight in it  and could not refuse it
when it was offered, were the alternative a
plunge into the nethermost abyss of remorse
into the scorching flames of discovery.
Therefore, it may be predicted with mathematical
certainty that he will read that letter
that lies before him ; that it will both charm
and distress him  the first by its worship of
himself; the next by making him see that the
writer believes him as single-hearted as she is
herself. After reading it, he will vow to himself,
much and more, ' I must tell her  I will
tell her.' And he will go to her, and will tell
her  how precious her sympathy is to him,
and how perfect is her nature, and he will
look love, if he does not speak it.

While he was longing to open Sara's letter,
VOL. II. 25

and vowing great vows to undeceive Nata as
early as might be, she said :

We are going to church this morning, Mr.
Wellfield. Will you come too, or would you
prefer to stay at home ?'

I will go with pleasure,' he answered. Be
it observed that in Wellfield's nature there
was not, and never had been, one grain of
scepticism in matters religious. It is true he
was utterly indifferent so far as practice was
concerned, and that, according to the company
he happened to be in, he would, for weeks or
months at a time, either go diligently to some
place of worship once, or even twice each
Sunday, or never enter one at all, or even
think of the matter. Where he went was
also almost entirely a matter of indifference,
except that he never frequented conventicles,
not at all because he disapproved of the
tenets held by their supporters, of which he
knew nothing, or less than nothing, but
because the services held in them were so
bald and tame, so ugly and ascetic ; they appealed

in no way to his esthetic sense, but
rather repelled It. Anywhere where he could
have a fine service, hear fine voices read
or Intoned, and where there was good music
in which he could join, was acceptable to him,
and all his life he had wandered Indifferently
whither friends or fancy led him, to services
and churches of all kinds, but perhaps more
to Roman Catholic ones than to any others.
As a small child he had always attended
mass with his mother, had learnt to say his
Ave Maria and his Pater Noster ; and these
remembrances remained with him ; part of
the influences of Italy. He remembered
them as he remembered his mothers dark
eyes, and gem-like brilliance of beauty 
like a delicious dream of another world.

All this, however, did not prevent his
putting on his hat and walking with Nata
and her father down the river walk, across
the field to the church. They sat in the
stalls, one row of which ' went' with the
Abbey property. How well he remembered

252

It all If the service were not of the most
elaborate or beautiful, there were other
objects In Wellfield Church which made up fora
somewhat bald ritual. There was for Instance,
much charm for an aesthetic soul In the
magnificent carved work of the splendid old
black-oak stalls In which they sat, and In the
many other odd old pews and strange
devices dotted up and down. The singing
was of a nature to make the blood freeze In
the veins of him who had any pretence to
being a musician. The choir consisted of a
number of young men and women accommodated
with seats In the west gallery, a
conspicuous position, close to the organ ;
and to do justice to their exalted places,
no doubt, they were In the habit of
attiring themselves In the very height of
the Wellfield fashion, which fashion, for
brilliance of hue and boldness of contrast,
would have put to shame Solomon In all his
glory. Jerome found himself seated next to
Miss Margaret Shutdeworth, who looked

In the dim distance he
saw John Leyburn, alone in a great square
carved oak pew, the pew that belonged to
his house, Abbot's Knoll, for free and open
benches were as yet unheard of in Well-field.


The service over, they nearly all met at
the door, as is the fashion with country congregations.
Jerome, having ascertained
that the family dinner did not come off for
the space of an hour and a half, or more,
said he was going for a walk, and wandered
off in the direction of the wooded hill, the
Nab, there to read his letter, and make
good resolutions with regard to Nata, with an
undercurrent of wonder, all the time, as to
what Father Somerville would tell him he
ought to do, if he knew all the circumstances
of the case.

Nata and John Leyburn, not noticing where
Jerome went, presently strolled off in the
same direction. Mr. Bolton remained with
his cousin, Miss Shuttle worth, patiently

waiting till she had finished her discourse
with an odd-looking character, no less a
personage than the sexton of Wellfield
church.

I'm sorry to hear, Robert, that you got
too much on Monday.'

I fear I did, Miss Shuttle worth,' he said,
looking rather sheepish.

'It is deplorable,' said Miss Margaret,
shaking her head. * How was it ? for your
wife could give me no proper account of it,
and unless you can clearly prove that you
were led away, I shall be obliged to show
my displeasure this time. I shall have to
withdraw my allowance to Mary.'

Mary was his sick daughter.

It were aw along o' th' brass band contest,
Miss Margit ; 'twere, for sure.'

The brass band contest, Robert ? I
don't see how the brass band contest could
make you get tipsy and tumble Into the grave
you were digging, as I heard you did. Is It
true ?'

'Ay, every word on 't's true, Miss Margit
more's th' pity.'

Shame on you ! But how did it
happen ?'

He twirled his hat round by the brim,
and a lurking smile and twinkle of the
eye betrayed his inner consciousness that
the affair had a ludicrous as well as a
deplorable' side.

'Well, Miss Margit, I'd gotten th' grave
above half-finished, when I years th' brass
bands coming' along to th' Plough Inn, and
It were th' middle o' th' afternoon, and I
were summon (some and) dry, and I were
vary anxious for to hear who'd won, yo'
know, so I flings down my spade, and I
went off to th' Plough, and their I found
'em all  every man on 'em. And we get
to talking', and first one offert me a drop, and
then another, till I get to' much  I'm free
to confess it. I remembered o' of a sudden
as th' grave were to be ready again th
morning', and I jumped up, and ran to th'

churchyard, and set to work to dig wi' a will.
And whether it was th' heat  it zuere gradely
hot  or whether I were fuddled, I know
nowt about it, but I turned dizzy all of a
moment, and I tumbled down, and fell fast
asleep. Th' graves were o'er yonder, at th'
fur end o' th' yard, and happen that were
why no one seed me, and wakened me op,
but when I did awake, it were well-nigh
dark, and I could tell for t' life of me,
where I were. So I sets op and looks
around, and there in the far distance I years
th' sound of a trumpet. My heart looped to
my mouth, and I thowt, '' Robert Stott, it's
last trump ; up wi' thee !" and I ups and
clambers out, and stands still. Ne'er a soul
could I see, and aw' were as still as death.
Finding' myself' alone, I took courage, for I
knew as the more part should be o' th' wrong
side i' th' day o' judgment  our parson's ole
said so, and I've a feeling' as he's rest. Then
again I years th' trumpet-blast, and I
looked around again. 'what, no more

righteous ?" I said tomysel'. " Eh, but it's a
poor show for Wellfield." '

RobeiH /' was all that Miss Shuttle worth
could ejaculate, horror-struck.

'Yes, Miss Margit ?'

What you say proves you to be in a very
unsatisfactory frame of mind as regards
religion.'

Well, ma'am, I've ole agreed gradely
well with th' owt vicar. It's a grand thing
to be rest, Miss Margit  a grand thing it
is  and were rest. I see my son-in-law
a-calling to me, so I'll say good-morning.'

With which, before she could stop him,
Robert Stott had made good his escape.

Now, perhaps you'll allow us to go to
the Abbey, cousin,' observed Mr. Bolton,
shaking in a volley of silent chuckles.

I am astonished at you, cousin,' was all
the answer he received, as Miss Margaret,
with her head in the air, floated towards the
wicket leading to the Abbey.

But her head suddenly went down again

as she recalled her niece's words yesterday,
Don't you see when you are being laughed
at, aunt ?'

'Is it possible that Stott was laughing
at me ? Surely he would not have such
insolence !'

Pondering upon this tremendous topic,
she had eyes and ears for nothing else until
Mr. Bolton observed :

You'll walk into the river, cousin, directly.
Would you like to go in, or shall we walk
about till the young ones come back ?'

'Oh, they are all off, are they?' she said,,
raising her head, and collecting her faculties
again. ' That gives me just the opportunity
I wish for. Do you know what you are
doing, Stephen ?'

Doing ? As how ?'

In harbouring that young Wellfield in
your house ?'

I invited him to stay a few days, if that's
what you call " harbouring," cousin.'

Pooh ! You know what I mean. Had

you no thought for the probable consequences
when you committed that rash
act?'

What do you mean by the probable consequences
? At present they seem to me
to consist In my having become better
acquainted with Mr. Wellfield, and feeling
considerable respect for him.'

Respect ! respect for a Wellfield ! I am
astonished at you. You have become better
acquainted with him ; but not so well
acquainted with him as your daughter.'

My daughter  you mean that Nata
admires him  or that he Is likely to fall in
love with her ?'

A fine sneer played about Miss Shute
lips.

He is very likely to fall in love with
NItas money. As for herself, no Wellfield
ever cared for any person but his own.'

You are prejudiced, cousin, as we all
know.'

Will you deny that when two people are

thrown together as Nata and that young man
are Hkely to be, it is probable that nothing
will come of it on either side ?'

It is not probable,' he returned, quietly.

Do you mean to say that you will allow
Nata to fall in love with him, and do nothing
to prevent it ?'

It is a matter I do not choose to discuss.
There are other probabilities on the cards
besides the probability of Nata's falling in
love with him

If that's your way of looking at it, I've
done,' replied Miss Margaret, mightily
offended, and prancing onwards with her
head higher than ever. ' Indeed, I think I
will go into the house.'

As you please,' he returned. ' I am
going to stroll about here for a short
time.'

Miss Shuttle worth stalked onwards in
dudgeon. Mr. Bolton was left pacing by the
river walk.

It is an odd complication,' he was reflecting,

' and it would be an odd result if I should
have toiled all these years to place my child
and this place into the hands of one of the
old stock once more. But it must be as will
make the child most happy As for him, he
may make an admirable gentleman of property
and an excellent husband, but he will
never make money. He may learn sufficient
of business habits to be able to keep it
together when it is there, but the business he
conducted would soon stand still. Still, if he
is honest, and honourable, and a gentleman
in thought and feeling, as he appears to be,
and the man who will make my little girl
happy  which I begin to think is the case 
there seems a sort of appropriateness in his
being a Wellfield. It was through no sin of
his that he lost the place, and from all I can
hear he has been perfectly well-conducted.
At least, I can see no reason for forcibly
separating them, and why should not my
daughter marry a high-born gentleman ? She
is worthy the best in the land.'

More meditations, all tending in the same
direction  more pacing to and fro, until,
raising his eyes, he saw his daughter
approaching, accompanied by Jerome Well-field.
Nata's eyes were bright, and there
was a soft flush upon her cheeks. She looked
undeniably pretty. Wellfield looked as he
always did  handsome with a beauty which
is given to few men to wear, stately and
heh-bred more than most men.

They make a goodly couple,' thought
the fond father. * She is a winsome lass,
and he  yes, by gad, there is something in
birth and breeding. He looks the right
master for a place like this.'

With which jumble of fatherly pride, commercial
astuteness, and prudent calculation,
he advanced to meet them.

John has gone home to dinner,' said Nata;
he's coming down in the evening.'

-s-  *  *

Wellfield's reflections, as he walked towards
Brentwood, were far from being agreeable.

He had Sara's letter, with Its calm acceptance
of the fact that he loved her as she loved him
she spoke of It as If It had been one of the
ordinances of nature  unalterable as the laws
of the Modes and Persians. She showed
him at the same time how very much she
loved him, and that stroked his self-complacency
the right way ; but the other
feeling chafed him. Inevitably, from his
character, from the Inborn, Inherited tendencies
of his nature, he asked himself, ' What
right had she to accept so unquestionably his
love  to assume that nothing could change
it  nothing shake it ?' She little knew the
temptations that were cast In his way  temptations
from which she was free. He forgot
how persistently he had pressed the point
upon her. What would she do in case some
other man were to fall In love with her, as he
was almost sure to do . Yet, as he remembered
her few strong simple expressions of
devotion to himself, the whole extent of his
love for her rushed over him ; he seemed to

be once more under the potent spell of her
individuality  of her noble, upright, simple
nature ; to feel once more the magic of her
beauty, which answered so harmoniously to
her nature, as some Beethoven symphony
answers in the grand and original carving of
its outward form to the grand and original
fire of the thoughts which gave It birth  as
the greatest poems take the most perfect
shape, and are written in the most melodiously
arranged words. Yes, he knew he loved her
he knew that all the higher part of his
nature loved and worshipped her ; but he
knew that she had clear eyes, and that oppressed
him ; and he knew that had those
eyes beheld him, as he sat alone with Nata
Bolton by the river that afternoon, they
would have scorched him ; had they seen
Nata's downcast face, and watched her embarrassed
replies to some of his questions,
or beheld the still more embarrassed silence
which had been to him so eloquent, they
Quld  how would they have looked ? Never

at him again with the light of love in
them. He no longer said to himself that
he would tell Nata tomorrow : he had
gone too far for that. All he could do now
was to drift.

In this uncomfortable frame of mind he
ascended the slope which led to the gates
of the drive through the park at Brentwood.
Right before him stretched a perfectly
straight road, some quarter of a mile in
length, between two green meadows, each of
which meadows was bordered by a belt of
dark firs. Many persons were, like himself,
wending towards the mass of grey buildings,
and the great stone gate-posts, and the two
huge square fish-ponds, which lay at the end
of this long road. A bell, too, was tolling
somewhere amongst the mass of buildings 
some old, some new, some not yet finished,
which form the outward portion of the great
Jesuit College of Brentwood. Arrived at the
entrance, between the two fish-ponds, he
inquired his way to the church, and was

VOL. II. 26

directed where to go. Entering by a side-door,
by some mistake, he found himself in
that portion of the church reserved for the
students of the college. Pausing, and looking
round, he was accosted by a tall, grave-looking
'philosopher'  a Spaniard, evidently
and, to judge from outward appearances, no
small personage by birth and breeding. Accepting
his offer of a place, Jerome found
himself between the Spanish youth and
another foreigner In one of the front benches
facing the high altar. There was a dreamy
calm over everything until the service began.
The congregation came slowly dropping in,
chiefly rustics, countrymen, women, and
children, and here and there some group or
isolated figure of unquestionably higher rank
and station.

With the different stages of the service
Wellfield forgot his troubles. It brought
back associations of youth and pleasure, of
music and student-days  associations In nowise
connected with Wellfield, with his

present life and surroundings  rather it led
him to forget them, which he was only too
willing to do. The ritual was gorgeous, the
music magnificent, the choir and the organist
first-rate. It soothed him, calmed him, eased
him, as all such observances must soothe and
ease those who can accept the principles
which give rise to them. On their knees
they knelt, and again and again sounded, in
strains of exquisite supplication, the great cry,
common to all humanity  Doria nobis pacem
Ay ! give us peace ; though every moment
we are ofT our knees we may be doing,
thinking, planning, hoping that which will
destroy peace, yet, Power that we Invoke,
heed not that, but, since we fall on our knees,
and set it to music, and are for the moment
in earnest  * Give us peace !' It Is a cry
common to all ; and those who pin their faith
on creeds imagine that It will be answered.
Perhaps the conviction saves some from madness,
and others from blank despair  lulls
some consciences, shoots a ray of hope Into

26  2

some hearts  makes their lives bearable to
those who believe that peace comes from
a source outside themselves  but remains a
delusion all the same. To-night, it had the
effect of a drug upon Jerome Wellfield's conscience.
Dona nobis pacem ! Surely there
would be some way ' shown' to him out of it
all. Dona nobis pacem! This strife could
not be meant to go on for ever. For once in
his life, he prayed  prayed from his very
heart  ' Give us peace !'

Somerville, who took no part in the service,
watched him curiously from his place, ina
somewhat retired corner. The keen-eyed,
quick-witted priest rapidly noted the points of
resemblance between Jerome Wellfield and
his two companions. Both the latter belonged
to old Roman Catholic families, and bore names
of world-wide celebrity ; both were amongst
the eldest and most advanced of the students,
and already showing signs of manhood, in
deep voices and a dark line on the upper lip ;
they might, therefore, justly be compared

with Wellfield. All three had the same highbred
pride of bearing, the pale, rather disdainful,
features ; the same distinctly haughty-carriage
of head and shoulders  to each and
all was common a certain dreamy schzudr-
vierisch expression, indefinable, but palpable
an expression which any acute observer
must have noted.

Anyone coming in, and not knowing the
circumstances,' thought Somerville ; ' knowing
only that this is a Jesuit seminary, and
that over there the students sit, would inevitably
say, '' What a thoroughly Roman
Catholic-looking trio  especially that eldest
one in the middle !' " He watched with more
intentness still. Father Somerville was
zealous for his faith  he was ambitious too ;
he knew that in his Church services of a
tangible kind met with tangible rewards. To
say that he then and there formed a scheme,
which he decided at all hazards to carry out,
would be to do a clever man egregious injustice.
Simply, he had a subtle brain and a

natural turn for intrigue, which of course his
education and career had fostered. He saw
possibilities  possibilities which excited his
active brain, and kindled his ambition and
imagination.

They were Catholics before  till not more
than a hundred years ago,' he thought. 'His
mother was Catholic of the Catholic. Why
not Catholics again, if anything ? Who
knows? Time will show.'

The service over, there was a sermon, and
presently the congregation broke up, and
streamed out into the open air. The
students marched off in procession, and
departed by a side-door. Somerville just
paused as he passed, to whisper to Jerome
:

If you will wait in the garden or on the
playground, I will join you in a few moments.'


And following this direction, Wellfield went
out by the west-door, and took his way to
the broad space on the brow of the hill,,

which seemed to form quite a little tableland
in itself, and which was the playground of
Brentwood College. He paced about there,
and watched the crimson and purple pomp of
the August sunset. It was a scene such as
one rarely beholds, rendered remarkable, too,
by ancient historical associations, and by the
present fact, that, though within twenty or
thirty miles of all the great manufacturing
towns and most powerful radical centres of
Lancashire, it was a Roman Catholic stronghold
; in matters of religion a conservative
nook, where change crept on leaden foot.
From this elevated vantage-ground Wellfield
saw many things associated with his own
family and its history. There was the ancient
grey manor - house and church of
Mlllholm ; in which church was a ' Wellfield
chapel,' where ancestors of his had their
marble tombs, including that of the boy, the
last direct heir male to Brentwood, who had
come to his death by eating poisonous berries
in a wood. It was after his death that

Brentwood had passed into the hands of the
Jesuits. From his present standpoint he
could see the three rivers, each more beautiful
than the other, which came very near to
meeting, and which had given rise to the
old rhyme which Nata had repeated to him
yesterday :

Fodder and Calder, and Ribble and rain,
All meet together in Millholm demesne.'

To his right, eastwards, the immense bulk
of Penhull closed up all prospect beyond.
Northwards were bleak Yorkshire moors.
At the foot of Penhull was the little conical
mound on which stood all that was left of old
Clyderhow Castle. Southwards, the smoke-dimmed
moors round Burnham, and Black
Wimbledon, showing out grimly against a
background of sky that mingled hues of
copper and flame and smoke. And by scanning
intently the ground just below Wellfield
Nab, and the course of its river, he could
discern where the village and Monk's Gate

Stood. A fair heritage, and it might have
been his again, but for

I am very sorry to have kept you waiting,
Mr. Wellfield,' said Somerville's voice
at his elbow. ' Will you not come into the
house ?'

Thank you. What a prospect this is !'
said Jerome, pausing, ' and what a phenomenon
this place of yours, too ; in this district
of all others.'

Within call, you are thinking, of those
centres of civilisation and cultivation, Blackburn,
Burnley, 'proud Preston," and even
the monarch of them all, Manchester,'
chimed in Somerville, a tinge of sarcasm in
his tones. ' Yes, it is a phenomenon, I
admit. I hope it did not bore you to come
to our service.'

Bore me ? On the contrary, I have
enjoyed it exceedingly.'

Won't you come into the house ? I
want to present you to the Superior, and you
will remain to supper with us. Come and

look at our libraries ; it will pass away an
hour until we can see the Superior.'

Jerome followed him, and the hour that
Somerville had spoken of was passed
agreeably enough, in wandering through
all the wonderful rooms full of wonderful
things which the priest showed him. There
was a quiet stillness over everything  a
Sabbath calm. The rays of the setting sun
made beautiful the great banqueting-hall of
the old mansion, which was now the principal
refectory for a hundred and sixty
students and their accompanying tutors,
priests, and professors. They wandered
through the libraries, whose cedar-wood bookcases
filled the air with a pleasant aromatic
smell ; and where one saw here and there
a figure in a square cap and a long cassock
standing silent amongst the wilderness of
theology and black-letter in the one room 
of patristic lore in the second  of miscellaneous
modern thought in the third. But
to those who know Brentwood, the repetition

of its wonders waxes tedious  to those who
know it not, it must be tedious also. Well-field
did not know it, and the charm which,
when it was shown to him by so skilful an
exponent as Father Somerville, it was sure
to cast over him, was a strong one.

Indeed, it is a place which cannot fail to
impress all who see it with a sense of wonder
and admiration  it is a little town in itself 
a centre of learned leisure, of Jesuit subtilty,
of refined cultivation, of courtly hospitality
towards those admitted within its
precincts, and all this planted upon the slope
of a bleak Lancashire ridge of hill, facing
another bare hill which divides it from one of
the most radical of radical boroughs. It was,
as Wellfield had said, a remarkable phenomenon.


He was presented to the Very Reverend
Father Superior. He was courteously and
graciously entertained at the simple but
abundant Sunday evening supper, and he
heard and shared in conversation in which he

felt thoroughly at home  conversation adapted
with skill and tact to his own tastes and
habits. He forgot his dilemma, until, when it
was almost ten o'clock, he rose to take his
departure.

I will accompany you for a part of the
way,' said Somerville, and after wishing
his hosts good-night, Jerome set out with
the companion whose influence he felt
already to be strong, but which was in fact
far stronger than he knew, or would have
liked to know  strong because it was the
influence of a calm, concentrated, yet flexible
nature upon one which, though variable was
not flexible ; though passionate, was not
strong.

Still broad moonlight, they had no difficulty
in making their way through the scented
lanes and between the tangled hedgerows.
They walked onwards, discoursing of different
things, until they had left Brentwood
more than a mile behind, and found themselves
at the top of a hill, from which, looking

down, they could see all the village of Well-field
; its old church ; the winding river, and
the Abbey walls and gates slumbering in
the moonlight. They paused, and looked
down upon it.'

It is very beautiful,' observed the priest
at last.

God knows it is,' responded Wellfield.

Another pause, when Somerville laid his
hand upon the other's shoulder, and said,
in a slow, reflective, earnest voice :

I wish to heaven that you were master
there !'

Wellfield laughed a short, mirthless laugh.
He knew what was meant, and the impulse
to speak freely was strong  so strong that
he followed it.

That will never be. You have some
power of divination, I am certain. Since
your conversation with me yesterday morning,
I have been convinced that what you
said Is true. I might be master there if I 
chose.'

Then why not ?'

Because to do It, I must sell myself body
and soul. It would be hell upon earth for
her  and for me too.'

But she is not a woman with whom it
would be hell upon earth to live,' began
Somervllle, as If surprised.

Heavens ! no. She is all that a girl
ought to be, I think, and good as only such
orlrls can be. It is not that.'

o

Surely you don't stick at the fact that
you are not desperately in love with her ?
In your position that would be a folly of
which I cannot believe you capable.'

No ; such an idea never entered my
mind.'

Then, since we are speaking upon the
matter  since you broached it yourself, let
me tell you seriously, that, if there is not any
real tangible impediment in the way, I think
you do wrong in every way not to take the
goods the gods offer you.*

Wellfield was silent for a prolonged space,

till at last he said, slowly, reluctantly, as if
the words were wrung from him :

Honour binds me elsewhere.*

So ! Another lady in the case !' was the
reply, given with a lightness of tone, an
absolute approach to a laugh, which surprised
Wellfield, and almost gave him a shock.
He had expected his words to reduce Somerville
to silence to produce an apology for
indiscretion. The fact that nothing of the
kind happened, had a subtle effect upon his
own mental attitude. Somerville went on,
with a tact and an audacity combined which
were certainly remarkable :

Pardon me, I ask no names  indeed,
I would rather you mentioned none ; but
tell me, if you do not very much mind,
this lady to whom honour binds you  is
she rich .''

'No.'

Is she likely to be ?'

Not unless she becomes so by her own
exertions.'

And there Is no definite prospect of marriage
for you ?'

As you may suppose, none  not even an
Indefinite one.'

I could suppose so. Well . . . remember
I speak quite without knowledge of the circumstances,
but knowing exactly what I do 
no more and no less, I should say, I hope
that lady Is aware of what Is being sacrificed
for her sake.'

Jerome was perfectly silent. Perhaps he
was not conscious of acting like a cowardly
hound. He did not realise, for Father
Somervllle was too clever to allow him to do
so  he did not then realise that the woman
who was his promised wife had been lightly
spoken of  to him  and he had lifted neither
hand nor voice In protest.

That Is my feeling,' repeated Somervllle ;
but after this, I have no right to urge you.
But I repeat my words  I would to heaven
that you, Jerome Wellfield, were master here 1
Good-night !'

Wellfield wrung his hand, and took his
homeward way Somervllle passed slowly-back
towards the Brentwood Park, his hands
clasped behind his back, pondering, lost in
thought, till at last he gave a sudden start
and stop.

Fool that I am !' he murmured. ' Instead
of giving up the marriage, I should do all
in my power to urge It on. This woman

in the background is 1 wish she were

out of the way. And yet, if I could marry
them in spite of her. . A man and wife
who live together in a hell-upon-earth 7iiust
have resort to a third person for help, and it
should go hard if were not that third person.
Upon my soul, I like the scheme. If Wellfield
Abbey and the money of that insolent heretic
who lives there now were once more under
the control of the Church  it would be a
meritorious act in whoever had brought it
about  another jewel in Our Lady's shrine,
and,' with a faint, sarcastic smile, ' a step
upwards for Pablo Somerville. The young

VOL. II. 2

man himself Is a Wellfield. If I can make
him act for our advantage, by playing upon
that self of his, It Is easy to bring out the
whip afterwards, when he has gone too far
to retreat.'

'don't fret.*

August was verging slowly towards
September ; the hues of
the flowers were more gorgeous
and more autumnal ; the foliage of the trees
had taken a soberer, more mature tinge.
The weather was sultry and still, as it is
wont at that time of the year to be.

One afternoon, Nata Bolton, book in hand,
and Speedwell by her side, paced slowly up
and down the river walk, looking a little pale
and drooping. Always soon and easily tired ;
never of the strong, robust temperament, she
had looked of late more delicate than usual,

27  2

and when questioned as to the reason of her
heavy eyes and pale cheeks, had replied that 'it
was the heat  the sultry weather ; the Abbey
stood so low ; and the end of the summer was,
she was convinced, the most tiring and trying-time
of the whole year.' She pooh-poohed
all attempts to make her neglect any of her
usual duties, and attended to both her outdoor
and indoor tasks with unabated diligence ;
but the zeal, the pleasure in them was gone.
Then her father proposed that they should
go away on one of their usual tours  she
and he and John  but Nata thought she
would prefer to wait until later in the year:
Wellfield was so beautiful now. When they
did go away, she wished, she said, to goto
the Italian lakes, and in a month later it
would be time enough for that. Her word
at home was a mandate, and her injunction
was obeyed, though John, in his slow and
deliberate manner, did remind her that there
was a little touch of inconsistency between her
two statements : first, that the Abbey lay so low,

and that this was the most tiring and trying
time of the whole year ; and, second, that
Wellfield was nicer now than at any other
season. To which she answered, a Httle
wearily, ' How you quibble about things ! I
don't want to go away from home. I hate
changes.'

Nata had always led a remarkably quiet
life. Her friends in or about Wellfield were
very few ; she had not a single intimate girl-friend.
Her father, and still more her cousin,
John Leyburn, had always been her greatest
confidants. All things that a sister may say
to and confide in a brother whom she esteems
and loves, and in whom she has the most
boundless trust and confidence, Nata had
always been In the habit of saying to and
confiding In John Leyburn. His Image was
inseparable from her scheme of life. She
never saw him without a feeling of contented
pleasure  much the same feeling as that she
experienced when Speedwell, with a great
sigh, came up to her, laid his great nose on

her lap, and looked with his honest brown
eyes intently Into her face. The idea of life
without John in It had never occurred to her.
She was usually on excellent terms with her
fathers cousin, Miss Shuttleworth, knowing-her
sterling worth ; but her nature had not
much real sympathy with the sternly disciplinarian
one of Aunt Margaret. Their
terms were neutral. The gaieties at Wellfield
might be said to be  none. The Bolton
visited with none of the old families residing
near the place ; they were looked upon, and
they knew it, somewhat in the light of Interlopers,
which fact had not troubled them
much.

It sounds, in description, a dull life ; but
Nata had never found it so, hers being essentially
one of those natures to which ' peace at
home ' is the one thing needful. She did not
care to seek distractions outside, and no-amount
of distractions could have filled up
the ache which would have been there If she
had felt that at home, in the back-ground.

there was a jar, a quarrel, a dissension of any
kind. Indeed, I am not sure that there may
not be duller things for a girl than to live ina
beautiful home which she loves, with
human interests around her, not many, but
deep, with a good father, a good friend,
and a good dog as her chief and almost her
only associates. Such a life Nata Bolton had
led now for seven years  a silent, still, uneventful
life, but one which she had always
found sufficient, nay, delightful. Vague
yearnings after lovers, and devotion, and
romance, had been singularly absent from
her thoughts. She had literally wandered

In maiden meditation, fancy free.'

Sometimes, after reading some very noble
or beautiful poem, some very striking and
powerful novel, she had, it is true, wondered
a little if life was ever to contain any
romance for her, and had thought that such
a romance would be pleasant. Then, being
well endowed with a certain shrewd, homely,

common sense, she had often observed her
own reflection In the looking-glass, and had
said to herself, ' Nata, my child, don't flatter
yourself that any man will ever fall in love
with you for your beauty ; and if he should
tell you he does, don't believe him. He
might like you for some of your other qualities,
if he ever took the trouble to find them
out, and no doubt many persons might be
found to love your money, and take you with
it as a necessary appendage ; but I think you
would do best to keep heart-whole, and not
marry anyone at all."

She had been very contented in this prospect,
though it must be owned she had never
contemplated the future without placing in it
the figure of John Leyburn in the character
of ' guide, philosopher, and friend.' Then
her father had appeared one afternoon, with
Jerome Wellfield at his side, and from that
hour Nata's fixed and settled plans for life
were upset.

That she should have cast aside her crude,

untried schemes and fancies when the man
appeared whom she loved, in spite of all
efforts not to love him, was perhaps
not surprising; indeed, there was perhaps
nothing very surprising in the whole matter.
But, in every deep, intense, and powerful
love there are tragic elements, and those elements
were present in this love of Nata's.
Not the least tragic one was, that though, as
time went on, Wellfield said many tender
things to her, and looked unutterable ones ;
though she loved him as her life, and would
have hailed as a foretaste of heaven the conviction
that he loved her, yet she never had
that conviction. She did not feel that he
loved her ; she only felt that the things which
she had seen she now could see no more,
that her peace and repose of mind were
gone, and that thus it must be, until he or
she were no more. She felt that she was
living in an unnatural manner  in a dream ;
that the equilibrium between outward and
inward things had received a shock. She

knew, though she would not have put it in
those words, that, sooner or later, that
equilibrium must be readjusted  that something
would come to restore it, that the restoration
might take many shapes. There
was the equilibrium which means happiness,
the continuous adjustment of outer to inner
conditions ; there was the imperfect adjustment
of those conditions, which meant more
or less of sorrow and suffering ; there is the
final equilibrium  that great adjustment of
outward conditions to inward ones, which we
call death. Any of these things might comet
her she vaguely felt as she paced beside
the river walk, with Speedwell beside her,
and saw the swirling eddies of the river, and
heard its gurgle, and saw the dull, hazy,
sultry blue of the sky above her, and felt
the warmth of perfect summer in every
vein.

Turning and raising her eyes, she saw
Wellfield coming from the great gateway towards
her. He was on his way from Burnham,

where he had been trying to learn how
to become a business man in her father's
office.

Good-afternoon, Miss Bolton. I have
brought you good news.'

Have you ? What kind of news ?'

The news that I am at last going to relieve
you of my presence here, which you
must have thought lately was to become a
permanent infliction. I have just been down
to Monk's Gate. The men wish to persuade
me that it is not nearly what it ought to be,
but I told them it would do very well for me,
and that I should have no money to pay
them with if they did anything else. I
showed them exactly what I would have
done. They are to finish to-night, by working
an hour overtime, and I shall go there
tomorrow.'

He had taken his place by her side, as if
he were accustomed to walk there ; had deprived
her of the book, which she had shut
up, and of the sunshade that she had been

carrying, and now he looked down at her and
waited for her to speak.

It  you  I think you have rather hurried
them. Is it not rather a sudden resolve
?'

Sudden action, perhaps. But for more
than a week I have been chafing at the
delay, and at the way in which I have been
obliged to quarter myself upon you here  a
proceeding for which I have not the least
justification.'

Except that of having been often invited
to remain as long as you liked, or felt it convenient,'
said Nata, in a low voice.

I know you and Mr. Bolton have been
kindness itself, and I can never be grateful
enough to you.'

I don't see why, I am sure. Who has
so good a right as you to be here ?'

He laughed. ' If I were obliged to bring
a lawsuit for the restitution of my property, I
should like you to be the defendant,' he said.
I should win in a canter.'

Nata was silent.

A t least, I shall not be far away from the
Abbey,' he went on, ' and I am glad of it.
You will let me come up and see you, I
hope, sometimes, though I don't hope for such
privileges as Leyburn enjoys.'

'John is like one of ourselves said Nata,
originally.

And I am not. I know that, and am
constantly reminded of it.'

Shall you send for your sister now ?' asked
Nata.

Not at once. I must wait till things area
little more certain. I am getting on in my
lessons at Burnham. I know how to do
book-keeping now, and your father has so
much foreign correspondence that he says I
shall be of use to him.'

Do not speak in that way !' exclaimed
Nata ; ' you know I hate it.'

I only do it in the hope of making
you see how reasonable it all is, and how-absurd
it would be in me to expect anything

else, and how lucky I may feel myself.'


And how unlucky you feel yourself in
reality,' she replied. * Don't try to deceive
me by talking in that way. Well, I hope
you will like Monk's Gate, and that you will
be  happy there.'

And I may come here sometimes T

Of course,'

I shall invite you and Miss Shuttle worth
to come and have tea with me. I know Miss
Shuttleworth honours that repast more than
any other.'

Nata laughed a little dry laugh.

We will be sure to come,' she said, ' and
we shall expect toast and teacakes, and then
bread and butter. I hope you will see that
the tea is strong enough, and that your
servant puts a clean cloth on the table. I
hope you like housekeeping on that scale.'

She spoke rather savagely, as if she took
a delight in saying something almost insulting
to him.

What do you mean ?' he asked.

Only that I wonder you can talk In such a
manner. I wonder you can submit to such
an arrangement. It Is monstrous !' she
answered, indignantly.

It was Wellfield's turn to laugh.

You are hopeless  so unpractical  so
heroic In your Ideas !' he said. ' And there
Is your father coming. Pray don't favour
him with such remarks as you have just made
to me, or he may say that If I am too good
for my place I can leave It, and then I
wonder where I should be.'

Nata was silent, her breast heaving. Mr.
Bolton came up, and Jerome repeated his
news to him too. He received It with a
calmness which his daughter thought barbarous.
They all three went Into the house.
That evening ' as It Is the last,' both Nata
and Jerome said, he sang for them again.
John was not there, nor Miss Shuttleworth.
The visits of both had become less frequent.
Jerome was not sorry, and Nata, carried onwards

by her changed state of mind, was
hardly conscious of it.

 # * -

She sat quite alone in the drawing-room,
on the following evening. It was Friday  a
busy day with her father, who was in Manchester,
attending a meeting, and who would
not return till the last train at night. She
had heard John promise to go to Monk's
Gate and sit an hour with Wellfield  ' by way
of a house warming,' the latter had said, with a
sarcastic little laugh. Miss Shuttle worth had
a class of village girls on this particular evening.
Nata therefore found herself in the
strange and unwonted position of being absolutely
alone.

The stillness of the house grew oppressive
to her, as the hours passed by. It grew dark,
and she sat alone. The day had been chilly
and dull, for the weather had suddenly
changed, and the sun had not once during the
whole day shone out. Speedwell couched at
her feet, and the lamp was lighted and the

shutters closed, to shut out the dark trees and
the shadowy garden.

As she sat thus alone, feeling her heart
very desolate, the door was opened, and John
Leyburn came in.

John, you !' she exclaimed, springing
up and running to meet him  ' I thought you
were going to Monk's Gate.'

So I am : on my way there now. But
you didn't think I should go without looking
in upon you  and your father away. You
look remarkably desolate.'

Do I ? Everyone has gone, and it is
dull'

If I had thought of it, I wouldn't have
gone to see Wellfield to-night. I would
have come and sat with you, my dear. Are
you cold, Nata ? What's the matter ?
Where's your little red shawl . and why
don't you have a fire ?'

I think it is rather chilly this evening
said Nata, letting him fold the little shawl
round her shoulders. ' Autumn will soon be

VOL. II. 28

here ; and then a day in Lancashire without
sun is always cold, no matter what the time
of the year may be.'

So it seems,' replied John, who had gone
on his knees before the grate, and removing
a bowl filled with peacock's feathers, disclosed
what is known, in Lancashire at any
rate, as ' a cold fire,' laid ready in the grate.

Where are the matches ?' he asked, finding
them. He struck one, watched the
flame, and then came and sat down beside
Nata.

I will stay till it has burned up,' said he.
Nothing is more cheerful than a good fire,
and nothing more dismal than one just
struggling into existence.'

How kind you are, John,' said Nata, looking
up at him gratefully.

Pooh ! Who would be otherwise to such
a desolate-looking little person as you are ?
I suppose your father will come by the ten
o'clock train ?'

I expect so. Oh, how nice that blaze is !

I shall be quite happy now, with this novel.
It is one of those which you brought me
from London.*

Which I understood you were not going
to read

Oh, but I am. I am very much interested
in it ; and  don't you think Mr. Well-field
weill be expecting you ? He will be
lonely in his new house.'

It will do him no harm if he is. But I
see you want me to be off Now, look here,
Nata, don't fret; there's nothing in this life
worth fretting about.'

People fret because they can't help it, not
because things are worth it or not worth it,*
said Nata, wearily. ' Good-night ! Thank
you for coming to cheer me up.'

Good - night,' said John, kindly and
gravely ; and he stooped and touched her
forehead with his lips. Nata smiled faintly.

That is only for Christmas Days and
birthdays,' said she. ' Three a year, John ;
so the next one is forfeited.'

282

How do I know where we may both be
when the next one falls due ?' he replied, with
a look in his eyes and a line upon his brow
which she did not quite understand. ' Well
good-night !'

INDIAN SUMMER.

Rome was not without visitors
(T . r- when he was fairly established
 at Monk's Gate. John Leyburn
frequently found his way down there, and
so did father Somervllle, and In him Well-field
found his most congenial companion
They formed a strange trio, for the three
were often there together.

There was that year a short, gorgeous
Indian summer, at the end of September
and the beginning of October. It was aswarm
as August ; the foliage a mass of
beauty  a dying, sunset glow, ready to be

whirled away in showers at the first swirl of

the equinoctial gales which would assuredly

succeed this calm. But in the meantime,

while it lasted, it was beautiful. They sat

with open windows at Monk's Gate, and with

the door set open too ; and while the lamp

burnt on the centre table, John Leyburn

stretched out his long limbs on the old

settee, and smoked his pipe ; while Somerville,

in the easy-chair at the other side of

the window, twisted cigarettes with his long,

slender fingers ; and Jerome, at the piano,

would play, or sing, or improvise, for hours.

Many a one of the village people, many a

lover and his lass,' would pause to lean upon

the top of the gate and hearken to the

broken, fitful gusts of sound which came

wafted to them from the open window and

door. Strange, weird harmonies of Liszt,,

and Chopin, and Schumann, smote their

astonished ears, and songs still stranger and

more eerie than the tunes  deep, mournful

German melodies, or some wild, homely.

Volkslied would float out and strike them
with wonder, such music being assuredly
for the first time heard in Wellfield.

Once or twice on these evenings, sometimes
alone, and sometimes with John (when
he was not at Monk's Gate), always with her
big dog by her side, a girl's figure had passed
the gate as the music was going on. Once
it had been a passionate love-song that was
borne to her ears, and once again the overpowering
sweetness of a movement of the
so-called ' Moonlight ' sonata. She had
turned her face towards the place whence the
sounds came, but neither hurried nor stayed
her sauntering walk, and, returning the
greetings of those who loitered and listened,
had passed on. Those evenings of music
were the only pleasant part of Jerome's
existence at that time. Then he forgot fora
moment Nata's pale face and Sara's letters ;
then the old student days seemed to have returned
again  the old days of music, of midsummer
madness, of ' careless contente.'

Letters came to him there, of course, from
Sara and from his sister, letters telling him of
their every-day life, and of the incidents of
it. With each of these letters his mental debate
was opened up afresh, until he began to
dread them, for he knew that they were
noble. He knew that the atmosphere in
which Sara lived  of waiting, of patience,
of hope, and of steadfast love, was a reproach
to his own wretched vacillations of mind.
Her calmness and strength oppressed him,
overawed him. It was no longer a question
with him as to whether he should tell Nata
Bolton that he loved another woman ; the
question was now, how to approach with
Sara the subject of his desiring to be free.
He did not in the least know how the position
had come about, but it was there. Unable
to make up his mind to do anything,
he contented himself with answering Sara's
letters in a strain far more ardent than that in
which she wrote to him, protesting the entire
devotion for her which he felt, as he wrote.

It was, perhaps, Jerome Wellfield's misfortune
that these two women loved him so
much and so deeply that they let him see too
easily how dear he was to them. It is possible
that a feather weight might have turned
the scale. Had Sara Ford not confessed her
love with such an utter frankness and self-abnegation
 had he entertained any doubt as
to his success with her, surely he must have
been more circumspect. Dire necessity, and
the fear of losing the prize, must have kept
him honest. And had Nata Bolton's love
been differently shown  in a less subtile,
coarser, opener way  most assuredly the
charm there of wealth and restored fortunes
must have been powerless. But he knew
that Sara Ford worshipped him heart and
soul, that he was the light of her eyes and
the joy of her life. And he knew that Nata
Bolton loved him with the love that is
patient, and enduring, and tenacious ; that
his joy was her joy, and his sorrow her
sorrow ; that for him or for his advantage

she would efface herself, and rejoice that she
was permitted to do so. And with affairs in
this state the Indian summer came to an
end.

CHAPTER I.

INTERMEDIATE.

:?HE Professor's grand, rugged face
and delicate, artist brow were
somewhat clouded. He rose from
the chair before the easel, on which he had
been sitting, and laid his brush down.

'You have not done much since I was
last here,' he remarked.

No, I'm afraid not,' replied Sara Ford,
who had been standing near him watching
him as he touched her picture here and

there. The scene was her atelier. The
time was a broiling afternoon in September ;
but here, in this sunless room, facing north,
it was cooler than elsewhere. She was
dressed in a long, plain gown of some
creamy white stuff. Her face was pale, and
her eyes somewhat heavy and languid. The
masses of wavy, chestnut hair lay somewhat
heavily and droopingly over the white
temples and broad brow. The only spot of
decided colour about her was the glossy
dark-green leaves of a Gloire de Dijon rose
which was stuck in the breast of her dress 
a species of rose which Professor Wilhelmi,
with his keen and observant artist's eye, had
remarked his favourite pupil had lately become
very fond of wearing. He had noticed,
too, that during the past few weeks she had
become, if possible, more beautiful than ever,
with a sudden glow and blaze of beauty
which was none the less brilliant in that it
was accompanied by a silence and quietness
greater than of yore. Wilhelmi was an artist

to his very soul. Creed, nationality, and
rank counted as nothing, and less than
nothing, with him. Genius was his care and
his watchword. Two years ago he had, he
believed, found that Sara Ford had received
a spark of the divine fire, and from that
moment she had been as his own child to
him  his soul's child, the child of his highest
and purest individuality. And as time went
on he had thought also to discover in her the
industry which some have said is genius. All
had gone triumphantly until at the end of last
July she had returned from her visit to
Nassau, and he, coming to her to resume his
lessons, had found that something had taken
flight  something else had appeared In its.
place. The exchange was the more annoying
in that he could not name either the one
thing or the other. As she spoke to him
now, he glanced down at her large white
hand, which had been resting on the easel
as he and she spoke. Had that ring of
sapphires which had replaced the old diamond

rose that she used to wear anything
to do with the change In her ?

How you have changed my Inanimate
little daub, Herr Professor !' she said. ' It
was without life. All that I do now seems
without life. Sometimes I think I had better
put away my paint and my brushes, and lock
up my atelier for the next six months, and
not look at a canvas for that length of time.'

Do so, If you can,' he replied ; ' but If you
do I shall know that your nature has
changed.'

She was silent, still looking down upon the
sketch. Wilhelm, who looked grave and
concerned, did not speak for a short time.
At last he said :

Do you know that poor Goldmark died
this morning ?'

Did he !' exclaimed Sara, a rapid flash of
sorrow and sympathy passing over her face.
How very sad ! Such a talent and such a
career cut off in that manner.'

'Ay, sad enough. But there are sadder

things than for a career to be cut off by
death. There Is the palsy of self-satisfaction,
which has virtually killed the very finest
talent over and over again, while leaving the
body as strong and flourishing as ever. Poor
Goldmark was rather too much the other way.
Nothing that he did ever satisfied him.'

Then do you not think he had genius }'
asked Sara.

N no  I cannot call his gift genius.

It just fell short of the happy inspired audacity
of genius. It was talent of the very highest
order.'

That was always my Idea of him. Won't
his wife and children be rather badly off .''

I am afraid they will. But Frau Gold-mark
is rather a stirring little woman. Something
will be contrived for them, I doubt not.'

Are you going ? This has been a short
lesson.'

It has,' he answered with the same ambiguous
little fold in his forehead. ' You
have not supplied me with much material to

teach upon this time. You must work, my
dear child  work while it is to-day,' he added
earnestly. ' Bear my words in mind. Work
while it is to-day, and let nothing interfere, or
you will have to repent your idleness in dust
and ashes.'

With which, not waiting for any reply, he
left her.

Sara looked after him dreamily. ' What
does he mean ?' she speculated. * But I
know. He finds a change in me ; and I am
changed, even to myself. Sometimes I think
the old spirit has completely left me, and yet
how can that be ? It will all come right
again, I suppose. But I wish  I wish it
might be soon.'

She sighed as she put down her palette,
and sat down before her easel in the chair
which Wilhelm had lately occupied, and,
amid the profound stillness of the quiet afternoon,
let her thoughts wander off there
where now they were for ever straying. She
was too much under the influence of her love

for Wellfield to be able to reflect whether
that influence were a good or a bad one.
That said, all is said ; it contains her mental
history for the past two months, and accounts
for the depression which stole over Wilhelmi's
face and into his keen eyes as he saw her ; it
accounts too for the nameless paralysis which
had stolen the cunning from her right hand,
and from her soul the ardent zeal for her art.
She was Sara Ford still, but Sara Ford
metamorphosed. Wilhelmi sorrowfully told
himself one day that there was now more life
and spirit in the water-colour sketches which
die Klein, as he called Avice Wellfield, made,
than in those of his dearest pupil, of which
but lately he had been so proud.

I am certain it's some wretched love affair !'
he muttered, as he strode abstractedly away
from the Jagerstrasse towards his own house.
Good heavens ! to think of that woman's
talent being palsied by some wretched sentimental
Schwdrmerei \ it is horrible. Why
is not genius created senseless, sexless, senti-vol.

II. 29

restless ? But then, of course, it could
never appeal to sense, and sex, and sentiment,
as it must if it is to be an influence. It is a
thousand pities, it is lamentable. And 
wrote of her in what might for him
be called enthusiastic strains. I wish there
were some way of saving her. I wish the
man would play false, or that some shock
would rouse her from this apathy !'

It may here be casually observed that Professor
Wilhelmi cherished a conviction that
he understood woman, and could account for
and cure all her vagaries, had he but the
power placed in his hands. It was a delusion
broken every day by the conduct of his own
wife and daughter, to whom, in all matters
outside his art, he was a slave, but he lived
in it still, and would live in it till he died.

Meantime the Indian summer dawned, and
flamed itself out here too, as well as at Well-field.
September went out, and October
was ushered In with unusual mildness and
glory. It was a sight to gladden the eyes of

an artist, even the low flat country which at
Elberthal stretches for unbroken miles on
either side the broad Rhine. For there were
glorious sunsets, colouring river, and field,
and town, with strange glorified lights, and
at' that sunset-time in the Hofgarten, the
yellow golden beams shone in a glowing,
dazzling mist through the autumn trees, and
flooded every twig, every stick and stone,
with mellow radiance. At that time the
stalls of the old women at the street corners
were piled high with grapes, and plums, and
russet pears, which fruits were to be purchased
for almost nothing. At that time it
was good to sail down the river to Kaisers-worth,
or up the stream to Neuss, and to
return at sunset, and watch the pomp of it
glorifying the majestic river. There was no
striking beauty of crag or waterfall, of castled
Drachenfels or magic Lovely, but there were
the great plains stretching Holland wards,
dressed in their autumn garments ; the broad
expanse of water sweeping by, strong and

29  2

untroubled ; the busy humming town behind,
with its throb of varied life, its many interests,
its treasures of art and joy, its music and
melody, inseparable from all true German
life.

The two girls lived on, happy and contented.
To them came no word of what was
going on at Wellfield. They knew nothing
of the long parley which their best-beloved
was even then standing to hold with baseness
and dishonesty, while honour and honesty
stood by. Had they known, they too could
have told him what perhaps his own conscience
had more than once whispered to
him : that honour and honesty will not continue
such a parley for ever. They will not
always remain there, holding out their
neglected hands for us to clasp. There
comes a time when they will wait no longer,
but will withdraw their hands, fold their
mantles around them, turn away, and leave
us to consort with the company ourselves
have chosen.

Legend Milder.

 E N days later, Sara,slttlng one morn
Ing in her atelier, heard a knock
at her door, and answered abstractedly
' Herein P

Looking up to see who might be her visitor,
she saw a little lady in widow's weeds.

Frau Goldmark !' she exclaimed, rising in
astonishment. Frau Goldmark was the widow
of that young artist of promise, of whose
sudden death Wilhelmi had informed her.
Sara had heard constant talk of her for the
last few days, to which talk she had listened
in a vague, unheeding way. Her acquaintance

with her was very slight, and had never
before gone so far as an exchange of visits,
and she was proportionately surprised to see
her now, and under the existing circumstances,
in her atelier.

Yes, Hebe Miss Ford, it is I. And you
may well look astonished, but do only hear
me.'

Come into my sitting-room, then, Frau
Goldmark, and tell me what I can do for you,'
said Sara, leading the way to where Avice
was seated with a book in the parlour.

Frau Goldmark was a slight, pretty, little
woman, with round, important, excited-looking
eyes, and a general aspect which did not
altogether charm Miss Ford, who formed
indeed, in appearance, and manner, and
everything else, a startling contrast to her
visitor. Sara had heard vague rumours
which gave Frau Goldmark the name of a
gossip, and she had never felt any violent
desire to make her acquaintance ; but her
recent heavy loss, her widowhood, and the

inevitable hard struggle which lay before her,
all combined to make Sara lay aside all considerations
save those of kindness. She
offered Frau Goldmark a seat, and waited to
hear on what errand she had come.

I have come to ask a favour, mein
Frdulein an immense one; ein tmerhdrtes
she began.

Indeed ! I wonder how I can serve you?'
asked Sara, in her most gracious manner.

Frau Goldmark looked at her keenly,
despite her excitement, and found time for
the reflection, ' She certainly is as beautiful
as all these men say, and if I can only get
her to do it  I will ask for both the scenes
while I am about it.'

You are aware, dear Miss Ford, of the
most lamented death of my dear good husband,'
said Frau Goldmark, with brimming
eyes and a trembling lip.

Yes, indeed ! I was most truly grieved
to hear of it. We must all lament it  you
that you have lost a good husband, and we

artists that a brother of such promise is lost
to us.'

'You speak most beautifully, Fraulein. It
has been a sore blow to us. I and my babes
are left almost penniless. I shall have to
work now to find bread for them, and thanks
to the goodness of my friends, I believe it
will be made easy for me.'

What can she want ?' Sara was beginning
to think, when Frau Goldmark again took up
her parable with great animation, saying :

The artists, my husband's friends, have
not forsaken me in my distress. Herr Professor
Wilhelmi has behaved to me like a
father.'

He is goodness and generosity itself, I
know,' replied Sara, her full contralto tones
in strong contrast with the high-pitched notes
of Frau Goldmark's voice. She had that
great defect, common to so very many of
her countrywomen, a high, harsh, shrill
voice.

He asked me what he could do for me.

and I related my plan to him, which he
approved of. I said that if I had but a
little capital I could earn a living for myself
and my children. I would open a
photographic atelier. My father was a
photographer, and I am perfectly acquainted
with everything belonging to the art.' Sara
suppressed a smile  this from an artist's
wife. ' A very little practice, and I should
succeed admirably. The money to start
with remained the only difficulty.'

I see,' said Sara, wondering more than
ever what she could be supposed to have todo
with it.'

Perhaps you have heard, Fraulein, that
Professor Wilhelmi, and some other gentlemen
and ladies, have decided, out of their
respect and love for my husband's memory,
to give an entertainment on my behalf of
tableaux vivants, for which you know they are
so celebrated here. They are to be given
in the Malkasten Club, or, if that is not large
enough, in the Rittei'saal of the Tonhalle

They think by this means that they can
realise the sum necessary. Oh, Fraulein
Ford, I beg you to consent !'

Consent  to what, my dear Frau Gold-mark
?' she asked. In bewilderment.

If you will take a part In the two principal
pictures, the success Is assured of the whole
-entertainment,' was her breathless reply,
while Frau Goldmark half rose from her
chair and held out her hands towards Sara,
legend, as she herself would have said, in a
theatrical manner.

I  oh, I am afraid It is impossible !' said
Sara, hastily.

Ah, do not say so. Miss Ford ! Think
what It means to me. There is no one else
here who can do it as you would do it. The
Herr Professor quite agreed with me Heave
me this note to bring to you.'

Saying which, she suddenly pulled a little
note from the bosom of her dress, and gave
it to Sara, who, astonished at the whole affair,
read, in Wilhelmi's hand :

Do, if you possibly can, give your consent
to Frau Goldmark's request, it is for a good
cause ; and, if my approval is anything to
you, you have it to the full.

Wilhelm.'

Here Avice, who had been listening
intently, and who had just realised what it
was all about, chimed in :

Oh, do, Sara ! do !'

Thank you, 77iein Fr'dulein, for taking
my side,' exclaimed Frau Goldmark,
quickly.

What are the pictures you wish me to
take part in.' asked Sara. ' Have you decided
upon them .'

Natilrlich, inein Frdidein. They are the
two principal ones  a scene from Kleist's
HermamisscJilacht, after the celebrated picture
in the public gallery, with you for
Thusnelda, and Herr Max Helmuth, Fraulein
Wilhelmi's BrduHgam, as Hermann;
and the last picture of my blessed Mann;

\{\'s> Ja, oder Nein, which is still hanging unsold
in the Exhibition.*

Sara was silent, pondering. She knew
both the pictures. Frau Goldmark proceeded
:

Professor Wilhelmi bade me come to you
myself, for he said you would do that for the
poor and afflicted which you would not for
the prosperous and happy.'

Are you sure that everyone wishes it ?'
asked Miss Ford ?'

'As certain as I am that I am here,' was.
the emphatic reply, ' Denarii sie nur, Frdu-
lean ! When the scheme was first proposed
Amalia Waldschmidt vowed she would have
the part of the lady in my husband's picture 
she, the stupid, heavy  but pardon ! I ought
to be grateful to all ; only the Herr Professor
quite agreed with me that she was the last
person to take such a part. She has no'
Geisl, no Gefilhl. How can she give to the
picture the expression it requires ? But she
made a point of taking that part ; they say,,

because she Is so anxious to act with Ludwig
Maas, who takes the part of the bold but
poor lover.' Seeing a strong expression of
distaste and disapproval upon Miss Ford's
face, Frau Goldmark went on quickly :

And you know, liebstes Frdttlem, her
father is a man whom we dare not offend,
and die Amalia rules him with a rod of
iron.'

Sara bowed assent to this proposition. It
was evident that to the excited little widow
this great entertainment formed the representative
event of the modern world.

Imagine !' she went on, * Amalia is suddenly
taken ill with schaidach-fieber  scarlet
fever you call it. Yes, it is so ; and it is
providential. Naturally she cannot act the
part, nor even appear at the legend BildeTy
for which Gottt set dank ! though I know it
is very wrong of me to say so. And I hope
she will have the fever mildly and make a
speedy recovery ; but ah, I am glad she
comes not ; and I do pray of you, dear Miss

Ford, to take the part, and also that of
Thusnelda. I shall bless you all my life if
you only will

I will take the parts, Frau Goldmark, and
will do my best to act them well,' said Sara,
composedly, anxious to put an end to the
widow's exaggerated prayers and protestations.
Her consent was received with a
perfect whirlwind of thanks and blessings
and expressions of joy, which she cut short
by saying :

But I beg you will not say anything
comparing me with Fraulein Waldschmidt.
It would be very wrong, and if I heard
of such a thing I should instantly give it
up.'

You may trust me indeed, mei7t lieges
Frdideiii I And now I go to the Herr
Professor, to tell him of my success. He
will let you know all about the rest.'

With the most affectionate adieux she
departed. Sara and Avice, left alone, both
burst Into a fit of laughter.

What an absurd little woman !' exclaimed
Avice.

Painfully so,' responded Sara. ' I own
that I wonder to see her ofolnof about dome
this kind of thing herself. If it were not
that the dear old Professor evidently desires
it so much '  she tossed Wilhelmll's note to
Avice  ' I should refuse.'

They are both very different subjects 
the pictures, I mean,' said Avice, musingly.
You will look splendid as Thusnelda, Sara.'

Shall I . It is a splendid picture,
certainly.'

It was a picture representing that scene in
Klelst's Her7na?i7isscklackt, in which Hermann,
seated beside Thusnelda, listens to
her, while she Indignantly relates how the
Roman envoy, Ventldius, had impertinently,,
and without her knowledge, clipped off a
lock of her hair, upon hearing which Hermann,
with a grim and granite humour, and
a mirth bordering on the diabolical, describes
to her how that lock will probably go to*

Rome, there to excite the cupidity of the
RoxTian women, who, he informs her, admire
hair Hke that  ' golf tend scion, tmd broken
so wie dein,'  and sometimes have it  not
growing on their own heads, but shorn from
those of other women, and that the golden
locks of a Teuton princess would be an
ornament which they, any of them, would
especially glory in wearing. It was a noble
picture, by a celebrated artist, and Sara,
already even, felt some thrills of pleasure in
the idea of taking a part in the representation
of it. The other picture was a rather
ambitious tableau de genere, Goldmark's last,
and was called Ja, oder Nein,

The next time that Wilhelmi saw Sara,
she told him what she had done, and added :

I hope I have been right, but it seems tome
that there are many girls in Elberthal
who ought to have had the parts offered to
them  your townspeople,' she added, smiling.

Wilhelmi laughed as he asked, ' Do you
seriously mean to say you think there is

any one young woman In Elberthal except
yourself who would in the least look the part
of Thusnelda ?'

Sara laughed, but was obliged to confess
that she did not.

She wrote to Jerome, telling him what she
was going to do ; adding, ' I hope you don't
mind. My Hermann will only be Max
Helmuth ; he will look the part every Inch, I
must say, but he Is quite harmless ; he Is
engaged to Wilhelm's daughter, and wildly
In love with her ; so say you don't mind,
because they have set their hearts upon It.'

Jerome replied that she must certainly
take the part. ' I suppose your Hermann
Is a contrast to me. One can only think of
that enlightened barbarian as some falr-halred
giant, with a fierce yellow moustache. You
will make an Ideal Thusnelda, I must say,
according to Heinrich Kleist's version, at
any rate.'

Relieved in her mind at having Jerome's
consent, and Wilhelm's approval, Sara gave

VOL. II. 30

herself up with genuine artist's delight to
rehearsing and preparing her parts ; that of
Thusnelda in especial, giving her real joy
and pleasure. The festival itself was fixed
for the middle of October.

THE SECOND MEETING.

5=H, T had at first been intended to give
the tableaux vivants, or as they
call them in Germany, legend
Milder, in the small hall of the pretty little
Malkasten, or artists' club ; but so numerous
had been the applications for places, that it
was decided instead to have them in a larger
room belonging to the building where all the
concerts were held  the public Tonhalle,
This proved quite successful, and every seat
was taken a week beforehand.

It was a very pretty sight : all Elberthal
was there ; assembled, too, in good time, and

.O 2

everyone talking, laughing, moving about
with a freedom, an ease, and an absence of
ceremony peculiar to German entertainments
of the kind.

Sara Ford and Avice went with the
Wilhelm, who, being important persons in
the affair, had naturally secured a number of
the uppermost seats. Sara's parts were in
the second and fourth pictures. She accordingly
had to go and dress for her part of
Thusnelda while the first picture was being
given. She left Avice, seated between
Luise Wilhelmi and her mother, and therefore
safely chaperoned. Luise was in a state
of wild excitement, which indeed was her
chronic condition. She was a very sprightly,
pretty brunette, fond of brilliant colours, and
given to attiring herself in a somewhat stage
manner. On this occasion she was strikingly
but becomingly dressed in hues of amber
and pomegranate, with many slits and slashes,
tags and ends and furbelows. Nothing would
induce her to yield to her father's requests

that she would dress with a noble and classic
simplicity, or to her lover's representations
that white muslin and blue ribbon and a
generally inexpensive shepherdess style of
thing would become her wonderfully well.
Fraulein Luise loved silk and satin, rich
fabrics and bright jewels, and so long as anyone
could be found to provide her with them,
she would wear them. Avice Wellfield,
beside her, looked like an inhabitant of
another world. It was the first time she had
been out anywhere since her father's death ;
and her plain black frock and white crepe
ruffles at neck and wrists formed a pointed
contrast to Luise's flashing colours and glittering
rings and chains and bangles. Avice
had plaited her hair up into a coronet, which
gave her an older, staider look. The girl
was fulfilling, more and more every day,
Sara's prophecy to her brother, that she
would one day be beautiful. Her new life,
happier despite its poverty than the old one,
had called forth that beauty, while the intellect,

which had formerly been repressed and
was now In every way encouraged to develop
Itself, gave dignity and depth to the
mere outward loveliness of hue and feature
and moulding. She sat quite still, watching
with enchantment what was to her an
entirely new scene. It was her first entertainment
of the kind ; and she enjoyed It
with a zest only known In such long-deferred
pleasures. Lulse was jumping up and sitting
down twenty times In five minutes, teasing
her father to know how Max would 'do,' and
if he was nervous  If It would be better for
her not to look at him too hard, at which
Avice suppressed a smile, and Wilhelmll, with
his rollicking Johne laugh, cried :

Look at him as hard as you can stare,
little simpleton. Do you think he will turn
his head to look at you ? It would ruin the
whole artistic effect of the picture, and tonight
it Is Art who will be paramount before
even you.'

At which she pouted, and the orchestra

suddenly struck up most eloquent music ;
delicious to hear, and unseen singers accompanied
them. It was a portion of Liszt's
Entfcsselter Prometheus that they played and
sang, a chorus of grape-gatherers, and the
melody was exquisitely sweet, and was dying
gently away as the curtain rose upon a magic
scene  a * midday rest in the grape-harvest.'
The picture thus copied was a celebrated
one. A background of vine-covered, autumn-tinted
Italian hills, and in the foreground a
richly picturesque group of men and maidens,
women and children, in every attitude of
beauty and grace that could be imagined.
In the very centre stood a splendidly
handsome woman, dark, tall, and amply
formed, in an Italian peasant's dress ; her
arms were thrown upwards as she shook a
tambourine and looked behind her to a youth
who raised a spray of deeply tinted vine-leaves
to bind them in her abundant strong
black hair. The others were variously occupied
; some in watching this principal couple

and in jesting aside about them. One child
was industriously devouring grapes ; two
ads were half wrestling with one another ; a
couple of girls were whispering with their
lovers. The music still played soft strains,
and the Cor der Winner died into silence,
while every figure stood out with a mellow
distinctness, breathing and living, yet still 
still and motionless, as the painted figures on
the canvas themselves.

Twice the beautiful picture was shown,
amidst applause and delight. Then ensued
the first interval, during which comments
were freely exchanged, and much laughter
and gossip about the various performers
went on.

It must be fearfully difficult,' remarked
Avice, in an almost awestruck tone. ' How
could she go on holding the tambourine for
so long without its making even one tiny
tinkle ?'

Wait till the next,' said Wilhelmi, who
appeared to have pinned his hopes on the

Hermannssc Iliac lit picture. ' Lulse, pray
that thy Max may not lose his heart to the
Princess of Germania.'

Luise laughed a heart-whole laugh. The
frantic devotion of her huge lover to his
tyrannical little bride was too well-known for
her to feel any qualms of jealousy.

Just then the band began to play a solemn
battle march, through which might be heard,
like an undercurrent, the clashing of martial
instruments, and the angry mutter of war.
Then slowly the curtain rose. Expectation
grew so intense, that even applause was
hushed, and only a murmur went through
the assembly, when at last the picture was
fully displayed before them. The picture
which was copied gave the very spirit of the
poet's dream, as he pictured that ancient
chieftain and his princess, and the living
picture was an idealisation of the painted one.

They appeared to be seated beneath a
mighty spreading oak  a primeval monarch
of the forest. The trunk of the tree was at

the extreme left. Above, Its foliage overhead
spread over almost the entire scene.
Stretching away to the right from Hermann
and Thusnelda, appeared a soft, grassy
sward, fallen leaves, and forest flowers. In
the background, almost in the centre, burnt
a steady, reddish light, while to the right a
high-flaming cresset cast fitful gleams upon
the centre-point of Interest  Hermann,
Prince of the Cherusker, and Thusnelda, his
wife.

The warrior, in the armour and dress of
his tribe, was reclined upon the ground, half
raised on one elbow ; his short coat of mail,
and small-pointed helmet, with the crest
a-top, his long yellow hair and moustache,
wild and fearless blue eyes ; the massive
and almost savage grace and power of the
whole figure were splendid. A half-smile,
at once grim and bitter, curved his lips ashe
looked up Into Thusnelda's face, and with
one great hand lifts up a heavy lock of the
waving, golden-brown hair which sweeps

over her shoulders, and touches the ground,
confined above by a gorgeous diadem of gold
and precious stones, the one which she has
previously told him ' thou brightest me of
late from Rome ;' the diadem which Vents
had arranged for her, with what intent
has she not just heard from Hermann ?

Sara Ford, as Thusnelda, Is also seated
upon the ground at the foot of the tree, clad
In a loose, flowing white dress of some fine
soft web. Leaning a little over towards the
warrior, she rests her weight upon her left
hand, and appears to question him with
amazement and Indignation. The music
stopped, and behind the scenes some one
read a portion of that magnificent scene  a
scene such as perhaps no one but Heinrich
von Kleist could have written quite in that
way.

The unseen readers recited, or read, with
dramatic effect.

Thusnelda.
I think thou dreams, thou rarest.
Who isn't will shear my head ?

Hermann.

Who ? Pooh ! Quintilian Varus and the Romans,
With whom I just have sealed a firm alliance.

Thusnelda.
The Romans ! How?

Hermann.

Yea, what the devil think'st thou ?

And yet the Roman ladies really must,

When they adorn themselves, have decent hair.

Thusnelda.
Have then the Roman women none at all?

Hermann.

None, I say, save what's black  all black and stiff, like

witches ;
Not fair, and dry, and golden, like this of thine.

The voices ceased, and at this point the
applause burst out In a storm. Avice passed
her hand over her eyes, starting violently at
being thus dragged back to the everyday
world. So life-like had been the scene, one
seemed to be transported to those strange,
far-back primitive days  the days before that
dim and distant Hennannsschlacht , about

which historiographers are even yet not
agreed. But far more wonderful to Avice
was the way in which her friend had, as it
were, transformed herself from the collected,
well-bred, sophisticated young lady of to-day,
into an ancient Teuton chieftains, a primal
Germanic mother, in whose beautiful face
there were not wanting passion and fierceness
 whoso reads the rest of the play may
learn the pitiless brutal vengeance which
Thusnelda wreaked upon Entities  not
wanting her elements of ' the tiger and the
ape.' And yet how grand she was  how
majestic ! And how tameless looked this
Teuton princess ! It was not fear that
troubled her  she felt no fear  but anger,
and boundless haughty astonishment. The
Roman women, forsooth ! What was she to
them, or they to her . She felt as if she
could crush a dozen of them with one blow
of her ample hand.

This picture was shown twice. Wilhelmi
rubbed his hands in rapture.

Splendid !' he cried, ' worth coming miles
to see. Didn't she do it grandly ?  didn't
she look every inch the Teuton queen ?'

Max might have given me one look !'
said Luise ; * he knew I was in the very
front row. I shall scold him about it.'

Foolish baby ! I forbid thee to do anything
of the kind. Where would the picture
have been if he had been ludicrously rolling
Bis eyes about in search of thee ? And why
should he look for thee '. Was not 
his lawful consort ?' said her father,
delighted to torment her if possible.

Luise was about to make some malicious
retort, when an official came and whispered
something to Wilhelmi, who, with an exclamation
of pleased surprise  a ' Nun, cas
Jreut mich P  rose, and made his way towards
the bottom of the crowded room.

The third picture was soon put on the
stage. It was a ' Village Funeral,' and was
excellently well done, but it lacked the poetry
and excitement of the last scene. The curtain

went down, and still the Professor
did not return. Sara remained behind the
scenes ; she took a part in the next picture 
the part of a lady of high degree, on whose
Yes' or ' No' her lover of low degree waits
anxiously. There was a long interval, full of
noise and talking and laughing. When the
curtain rose again, Wilhelmi had still not
returned ; and Luise, who was never happy
without him at such a scene, muttered discontentedly,
* Wo bleibt tenn der Papa 7

This picture  this Ja, oder Nein  had an
interest, apart from its style and subject, in
the fact that it was the last one finished by
the artist who had died.

A long, old-fashioned, richly-furnished
room was displayed, and, standing in the
midst of the grandeur, plainly dressed, proud
and upright, a young man in the costume of
the present day. He was handsome, and
had a fine, open, resolute face. The expression
of earnest, attentive, eager waiting, not
degenerating into anxiety or servility, was

admirable. Nothing showed that he was
nervous  he had not taken the trouble to get
himself up in visiting costume. It appeared
that he had been walking : his shoes were
dusty and travel-soiled, his dress a rather
shabby grey suit, hands gloveless, wrists
cureless, nothing either costly or fashionable
about him ; and yet, one of nature's gentlemen.
His white straw-hat lies on a table
beside him. He has been speaking, you see,
probably strongly, earnestly, and ardently,
and now he waits the answer. The young
lady who stands before him, in a highly
fashionable costume of the present day, as
rich and costly as his is poor and worn, holds
a fan in one hand, and with the other seems
to be half closing it. The attitude is one of
reflection, of pausing ; the eyes are downcast.
Will she say ' Yes,' or ' No' ?

Beautiful groups of vine-reapers, primaeval
forests, and historical legends have their
charms, no doubt; but a yet more potent
spell is excited when the poetry is touched

which underlies this present-day life of ours 
when romance is manifest, clothed in a grey
tweed suit and a fashionable afternoon costume.
He is unabashed by her wealth and splendour.
Will she resent his audacity, or accept it ?
In the painting there was a sweet mystery :
none could say, from looking at it, what
course would be' taken by that fair lady.
Sara Ford was perhaps thinking of some
past scene. There was the shadow of an
expression upon her face which caused a
murmur :

'After all, she will say yes.'

It was at this juncture  just when the
interest was deepest, when necks were being
craned forward, and whispers exchanged 
comments upon him and her : ' How well
Ludwig does it !'  ' Of course she will say
yes !'  'How zvild Amalia Waldschmidt
would be if she saw Ludwig now !' and soon,
that Professor Wilhelmi, accompanied by
another man, returned to his seat. There
was an empty chair next to Avice Wellfield,

VOL. II. i

and the stranger took It, and fixed his eyes
upon the legends Bill on the stage. Suddenly
the face of the lady became no more
like the face of a picture. It changed  it
was certainly a living face. Most distinctly
her eyes moved, her expression altered ;
some persons said afterwards that she had
started, but that may be a libel. What Is
quite certain Is, that the expression of the
face did change, and that the gentleman
who had come In with Professor Wilhelmll
turned to Avice Wellfield with a smile, and
remarked In a low voice :

Miss Ford has recognised me, and Is so
surprised to see me that she has moved.*

Do you know Miss Ford ?' asked Avice,
not moving her eyes from the picture.

Yes,' replied Rudolf Falkenberg. ' I met
her a month or two ago at Ems  Nassau,
rather, at the Countess of Trockenau's.'

He continued to gaze intently at the living
picture, while Miss Ford on her part soon
had her features and expression entirely under

her own control again. She posed admirably
for the remainder of the scene, and for
the repetition of it which was stormily demanded.
The shade of expression on the
lady's face was of the very slightest ; but it
was enough for the audience to be all of one
mind as to what it meant, and 'She will have
him' was the universal verdict.

At last the curtain finally fell upon this
picture, and with it ended Sara's share in the
performance. The two last ' Milder' were
also admirably done, but they did not excite
the interest which had been called out by the
last. One was a scene from Schiller's
Wallenstein, and the other from Goethe's
Egmont.

In the bustle of the interval ensuing
between the two last pictures, Sara came
into the room with Wilhelmi, who had been
behind the scenes to fetch her away. Everyone
was standing up, and almost everyone in
animated conversation, so that Miss Ford
gained her place almost unobserved.

Not altogether unnoticed, though, for
before anyone else could speak, Fallen
had held out his hand with a smile,
saying :

Thus we meet again. Miss Ford.'

Not exactly "thus," ' said Sara, laughing.
I saw you suddenly, and was so surprised
that I am afraid I moved, or laughed, or
something. The impulse to bow to you, and
say *' How do you do ?" below the breath, as
one does, was almost irresistible.'

I ought to have remained in the background
where I was, and from whence I
saw you in Thusnelda. I would not have
disturbed that for the world.'

And that reminds me,' here observed
Fraulein Wilhelmi in a plaintive voice, * Miss
Ford, where Is my poor Max ?'

Behind the scenes, dressing for Egmont,'
replied Sara, laughing.

I shall never consent to this sort of thing
again,' said Lulse. ' Or If I do, I shall take
a part as well. Did you only come to-day,

Herr Falkenberg, or did papa know that you
intended to visit us ?'

No ; I only decided yesterday to come,
and I only arrived by the evening train from
Frankfort. I went to your house, and found
where you all were, and came here.'

Of course you are staying with us, as
usual ?' observed Luise.

Your father has kindly asked me to do
so,' he replied, smiling.

Sara, watching his face, felt an indescribable
satisfaction in it, and as if an old friend,
and one who could be trusted, had suddenly
been present. Those were the same honest,
critical brown eyes which had looked kindly
upon her, as they sat and spoke of friendship
in the lite Ritheplatz beneath the cathedral
walls at Lahnburg. As for Falkenberg, after
the first words of greeting, he scarcely spoke
to Sara, but allowed himself to be monopolised
by Luise, who, true to her nature, had
flirted with him, or tried to do so, since she
was two years old. Though he did not

Speak much to Sara, his eyes wandered now
and then towards her with an inquiring, considerate
expression. She was very quiet,
but looked marvellously handsome, in her
black velvet gown and pearl necklace.
Excitement, pleasure, high, strong emotion,
never made her talkative, but they brought
a soft glow to her dark grey eyes, which
beautified her wonderfully. To-night the
pleasure had been very great, the excitement
very strong, and she looked proportionately
splendid.

Here the curtain went up for the last
picture, and when that was over, came the
crush to get out of the hall.

Look here, mein Bester /' observed Wilhelmii
to Herr Falkenberg. ' My womenkind
will be more than enough for me. Will
you take Miss Ford and Miss Wellfield
under your charge, and see them home .'

With pleasure,' was the reply ; and with
an exchange of hasty good-nights, the Wil-helms
were carried forward in the crowd.

while Falkenberg and the two English girls
made their way slowly after them.

Seated in their Droschke, and driving
towards the Jagerstrasse, Falkenberg said :

May I call at your atelier soon, Miss
Ford, as I am staying here ? I dare say I
shall be at the Wilhelmina' for some little
time.'

I shall be very glad if you will,' responded
Sara ; ' though,' she added, after a pause, ' I
am afraid there is not much for you to
see.'

To-morrow afternoon,' he suggested, ' or
will you be too tired ?'

I shall not be tired at all. Pray come,
and have coffee with me, if you care to
remain.'

Thank you. I shall not fail,' he answered,
as the cab stopped, and he handed them
out.

We all owe you a debt of thanks, mein
Frdtilein for acting as you did to-night,' he
said, as he shook hands with her.

I am glad you were pleased, and I hope
the affair will bring some money to poor
little Frau Goldmark. Then, till tomorrow,
Herr Falkenberg.'

Till to - morrow. Gate nackt, mine
Damien'

HERR FALKENBERG's FRIENDSHIP.

Oh, snows so pure  oh, peaks so high,
I lift to you a hopeless eye ;
I see your icy ramparts drawn.
Between the sleepers and the dawn.
*****
I see you, passionless and pure,
Above the lightnings stand secure;
But may not climb . . . .'

HEN Herr Falkenberg arrived the
following afternoon in the Wagers
he found Miss Ford alone
in her atelier. She had sent Avice out with
Ellen, she told him, to walk off the excitement
of yesterday.

I am glad you have come early,' she

added, ' while it is yet to-day. The evenings
darken down so quickly now, don't they ?'

Yes, very ; but for me, these chilly
autumn evenings have a great fascination.'

Have they ? And for me too. Do you
know, there is nothing I like better than to
put on my hat and shawl on a fine, sharp
October evening, such as this is going to be,
before it is quite dark, while the sky is still
light ; in fact, just at the time the lamplighter
goes his rounds. There is a strange, unusual
feeling in the air, and people go by like
figures in a dream.'

I know the feeling. And what is your
favourite haunt at such times ?'

I like to pass through some of the most
crowded streets first, then gradually to leave
them and walk through the quieter Allen, till
I get to the Hofgarten. I never get tired of
it, small though it is. That well-worn round
space, called the Scheme Aussicht, remains
my favourite spot. Very few people go
there at this season, and at that time in the

evening. I can sit, or stand, or pace about
as long as I choose, and watch the Rhine,
and the remains of the sunset, and the
bridge of boats, and think of all the villages
which the distance hides. It is very beautiful,
I think, though you may laugh at me for
saying so.'

I am not all inclined to laugh, for I like
the same kind of thing myself. I have a
special fondness for the "still, sad music of
humanity," which one comprehends best at
such times.'

Yes, it is a music worth listening to. But
the music of humanity is not always sad,
Herr Falkenberg, is it ?'

No,' said Rudolf, looking down at her.
He was standing, Sara was seated on a
low chair, leaning forward, and looking up at
him with an earnest, large gaze, and in her
eyes was so deep, so triumphant and secure a
happiness, that he could not fail to see it 
it made her face glorious with its reflection.
Falkenberg, looking at her, repressed the

words of admiration he would fain have
uttered, and sighed before he answered her,
in his usual courteous, collected fashion.
No,' he repeated ; ' it is often glad, I think,
and when it is so, it is very glad. Pardon
me, Miss Ford,' he went on, with a slight
smile, ' I think it has been glad for you lately ;
you look as if your life's music were pitched
just now in a major key.'

Er cheek flushed, and her eyes fell, as
she answered, in a low tone :

Yes, I have had a great happiness lately.
I am very happy.'

I am very glad to hear it,' said he, and he
was at no loss to guess to what kind of
happiness she alluded. If he had been  his
eyes fell upon her hands, clasped upon her
knee, and upon the solitary sapphire hoop
which decked the third finger of the left
hand, with the broad tight gold guard above.
That was enough. He had observed her
hands in days gone by, and then, he knew,
when they were at Ems and Nassau, she

had worn several rings, old-fashioned, but
valuable  a diamond one, and a pearl and
emerald one, and others. They were gone.
Nothing remained but the sapphire hoop,

Let me congratulate you on your happiness,'
he added, 'and forgive my saying
that the ring you wear Is a good omen.
Those blue stones mean steadfastness and
faith;

Yes, I know. Those qualities are about
the best things we can have. Don't you
think so ?'

They are very good things,' he replied
slowly, as he thought within himself, ' Two
can be steadfast : one may steadfastly give
up, as well as steadfastly cling to a thing.'

Are you not tired with your exertions
last night ?' he asked.

I  oh no ! I am very strong ; I do not
easily get tired. I should like always to feel
as I did feel last night : as if nothing would
ever be difficult again, as if one's powers
would easily sweep away every obstacle. Do

you know, in the scene from Hermann and
Thusnelda, I was wishing, with all my heart,
that I was here in my atelier, with an appropriate
subject. I felt as if I could have
painted then.'

Yes, one lives a full life at such moments.
That reminds me that at this season daylight
rapidly departs. May I not see your pictures
now ?'

With pleasure, such as they are,' she
answered, rising, and pushing an easel
round, so as to show the picture in the best
light.

This is but a sketch,' said he, standing
before it. ' Have you nothing finished ?'

N no,' said Sara, pausing ; and as she
forced herself to make the calculation, she
found that she had never finished anything
since her visit to Ems ; since she had known
Jerome Wellfield.

I have finished nothing lately,' she
exclaimed, struck with the thought, and
involuntarily speaking out her reflections.

I finish nothing now. I begin things, and
then the impulse fades away, and they are
neglected.'

'It is as well not to insist upon working
out every crude attempt,' he said  and she
thought his face took an expression of
gravity, as he continued to look at the
sketch  ' because if you do that, you are not
an artist any more, but a machine ; but it is
also well occasionally to persevere in carrying
out some conception, even if you do not find
yourself altogether in sympathy with your
first idea. That is discipline, which in
moderation is good. What is this ?' he
added, so drily, and so abruptly, that she
started.

That ?' she answered, a little hurriedly ;
oh, it was a verse from a little poem of
Sully Prudhomme's which struck my fancy.
Where is it ?'

She found a scrap of paper on the edge of
the easel, on which paper were scribbled
Sully Prudhomme's exquisite little lines, Si

vous davies. The verse she had tried to
Illustrate was the one running :

Si vous davies ce que fait maitre

Dans Tame triste un pur regard,
Vous regarderiez ma centre
Comma au hasard.'

It Is not very good,' said Sara, apologetically
; ' It Is a stupid, sentimental little thing
after all'

As you have sketched It, It Is,' he
answered, and said no more.

Sara, with an uneasy thrill of feeling,
remembered his words to her at Trockenau :
'If I thought It atrocious, I am afraid I
should say It was so, much though I might
dislike having to do It.'

She felt that he had just now said
atrocious,' or something very like It, and
her heart sank. Silently she placed another
canvas above the first. It was a vague,
Indistinct scene ; what appeared some wild,
wind-blown trees on rising ground to the
left  clouds riven asunder, and silvered by a

moon which did not actually appear ; the
hint of a deep, rapid, sullen stream, with tall
rushes, in the foreground.

That is imaginary !' he said abruptly
You did not go to Nature for this.'

No, not altogether. It is  it is only a
sketch.'

Scarcely that. Is it meant to typify anything
?'

I believe I was thinking of Shelley's
stanzas : '' Away ! the moor is dark beneath
the moon !" But it is bad. I have failed,
she added, a sudden sense of being very
small and insignificant rushing over her, and
also a conviction of how entirely she had
failed.

Yes, you have failed,' he answered, somewhat
sarcastically. ' I should not imagine, in
the first place, that you knew what the lines
meant.'

No, I don't think I do,' Sara owned,
deprecatingly.

Let us hope you never may. The
VOL. II. 32

meaning, when you come at It, Is bitter  as
bitter as anything well can be. Well '  he
turned to her, and looked her In the face,
with eyes which she felt were full of severity
and full of concern  * Is that all ?'

'It Is all I can show you,' she replied
hastily, * when I see how displeased you are.'
You are afraid of hearing the truth ?'
asked Falkenberg, with a mocking smile.

With compressed lips, and a face which
had grown pale, she threw a cover from
another canvas, a larger one, on a second
easel, and, leaving him to study It, turned
away, and stood at the window, looking out,
her heart beating so wildly that its throbs
deafened her. Yet she heard him say :

Ah ! at least one knows what this is
Intended for.'

It was a sketch merely, all except the
head of the figure, In neutral first tints ; and
there was certainly no mistaking the subject.
A man's figure In imperial robes, leaning
eagerly forward, stretching out his hands ; his

eyes fixed, his lips parted towards the sun,
which suddenly bursts with a flood of light
into the room, and illumines the desk and
tablets, on which he had been inscribing his
great Hymn. One could just catch this
meaning ; and the head of Julian the Apostate,
which was boldly finished and beautiful,
was a likeness of Jerome.

Hem !' observed Falkenberg. ' The Apostate
 a curious idea.' Then, after a pause,
I suppose that is all ?'

All, except the studies I am doing with
Herr Wilhelmi,' she said, feeling all the
pretty conceits with which she had tried to
gloss over her work, small in amount, poor
in execution, of the last three months, swept
away, as cobwebs might be swept from a
roof, till not a trace remained.

And has the Herr Professor praised your
performances of late .'

He has not  he has blamed them,' said
she, her cheek burning, but firmly resolved
to confess the worst  to conceal nothing.'

It would have been odd indeed If he had
done so. Has he seen this last one that I
have just been looking at ?'

No one has seen It but yourself,' she
replied, almost Inaudible.

It Is not quite so bad as the other two.
The head shows some signs of good workmanship,
but the whole thing is poor and
meretricious ; and you know It Is. Those
other two studies, or attempts at studies,
show a distinct and visible falling off. They
are not so good by a long way as the little
sketch you showed me at Trockenau, They
are careless, sketchy, weak, and horribly
amateurish. They are second-rate in every
way  fit for magazine woodcuts  but as works
of art ! They are dreadful, and quite destitute
of workmanship, and I am very sorry to see
them.'

Oh, Herr Falkenberg !' she exclaimed,
aghast. 'You  but I deserve It. They are
all that you say.'

She spoke with a proud humility, but her

voice was stifled with suppressed sobs. His
relentless words had aroused, as if by magic,
the old spirit of eager ambition which, until
a few months ago, had animated her. It was
as if some one roughly shook her from some
pleasant drowsy dream back into reality. In
her own mind she had tried  not very successfully,
it is true, but still with the effect of
lulling herself into contentment  to call those
inadequate attempts at pictures 'vague fancies,'
' thoughts too subtle at once to take
shape.' Consummate criticism, neutral,
calm and unimpassioned, fixed its piercing
eyes upon them, and instantly pronounced
them  daubs.

She had come nearer to him as she spoke.
Now she turned away again, consumed by a
feeling of burning, scorching shame, and
walked back to the window, and stood there,
feeling utterly miserable. ' Love is enough,'
she had lately read somewhere; but it was
not true, she found  it did not support or
comfort her under this just condemnation.

It did not enable her to feel callous and
indifferent under the disapproval and displeasure
of such a man as Rudolf Fallen


She remained standing by the window.
He had begun to pace about the studio, his
hands clasped behind him. Presently he
spoke :

I congratulated you just now on your
happiness he said. ' If this is to be the result,
I must withdraw those congratulations

Herr Falkenberg, don't  please don't
say that !' she Implored, In a voice that was
pitiable, though so low.

.' But I must, if you allow it thus to
enervate you  to emasculate your power.
Pardon my frankness, and what may seem
my Intenseness ; but you know my motives.
Do you mean to give up your art ?'

No  oh no ! I never thought of such a
thing

Then look to what you are doing. Such
things as those you have showed me  such

thin, weak, boneless, bloodless things are a
mere prostitution of one of the noblest and
most glorious of arts. For heaven's sake, if
you do not intend to do better than that,
give it up altogether. Surely you are above
such amateur dabbling, such sentimental
prettiness  you, who might do well and
worthily, even nobly, I believe, if you only
would. And, if you intend to persevere, let
me tell you that the 'happiness," or the
good fortune," or whatsoever it may be,
which degrades your powers instead of expanding
them, is bad. Sorrow rightly borne,
and noble joy rightly worn, should elevate,
not degrade. There is no evading this law,
and no escaping it for those who have souls
at all ; and I was firmly convinced that you
had. What has one of your own countrymen
said, one of the most consummate
art-critics that ever lived ? He has said just
the same thing  " accurately, in proportion
to the rightness'of the cause, and the purity
of the emotion, is the possibility of the fine

art  with absolute precision, from the
highest to the lowest, the fineness of the possible
art is an index of the moral purity and
majesty of the emotion it expresses." That
is one of the hardest things ever written, and
one of the truest. Measure yourself by it,
with those  and where are you .'

Sara had cast herself into a chair, and with
her hands before her face, was controlling
her sobs as best she might. Never before
had she felt thus humbled and scorched, and
burnt up, as it were. It was terrible, yet not
one pang of anger or resentment mingled
with her emotion. She knew that what he
said was just  no more, no less ; and being
noble, she liked him the better for his having
said it. There was no carping, no prejudice
or temper in what he said  no scolding for
the sake of rousing her to retort or to deprecate
; there was the sorrowful, stern condemnation
of one who knew she had belied
herself, and had sufficient regard for her to
tell her so, and she bowed to it.

He did not speak for a lltde time, and
gradually her sobs grew quieter. At last he
stopped before her, and said :

Miss Ford !'

Sara removed her hands from before her
face, picked up her handkerchief, dried her
eyes with it, and looked at him. His eyes
were full of kindness ; they were not hard ;
his face was not the face of a hard judge, and
his voice was soothing as he said :

I do not beg you to forgive me for what
I have said to you. If you are what I take
you to be, that is not necessary. I do not
say I am sorry to have wounded you. I
honour you so much as to feel sure that you
appreciate my reasons for so speaking. But
I ask you, do you know yourself the reason
of this quick and lamentable falling off .'

Yes, I know it,' she replied, looking at
him with a face pale indeed, but with eyes
which did not waver. ' The reason is, that
I have dreamed of myself and my own happiness
to the exclusion of everything else. I

have let my love master me, instead of being
myself master of my love. And I am
punished for it.'

And will you go on dreaming ? Will
you not rather try to awaken ?'

Sara looked at him, and thought of Jerome
of the love she bore him. Subdue that,
make it conclave to her art, second to something
else ? She knew that if she meant to
be what she had all along striven for  a great
artist, that she must do so ; the question was,
could she ? Had she not been in reality
the slave of her love for Wellfield, since it
had arisen, since he had told her he loved
her ? Not confessedly so, but indeed, and in
fact ? Yes, it was so. It suddenly dawned
upon her mind that such love might be
absorbing  might be exquisite at the time ;
but her nobler self told her that it was not
good to be bound hand and foot in the bonds
of this passion, that it was unworthy, that she
had yielded to the infatuation that paralyses,
not the love that inspires.

I cannot be free in a moment,' said she,
but I can endeavour to be so. I will try,
and I give you my hand upon it.'

With a simple, proud gesture, she placed
her hand in his. He knew what she meant.
That love of hers was not to be given up ;
she held it holy, justifiable. But she was no
longer to be its conclave.

'Well,' he thought, 'it is doubtful, but if
there is a woman who can do it, she can.'

He grasped her hand firmly.

And our friendship ?' he asked.

Do you still wish for my friendship, Herr
Falkenberg ?'

Now, more than ever, your friendship
appears precious and desirable to me.'

It is yours, so long as you care to keep
it,' she answered. ' At least, do not desert
me till I have found the strait and narrow
path again.'

That is not hard,' he answered. ' Go to
Nature, and paint the humblest plant you
can find  the most rugged visage you may

meet in the street, but paint it  you know
how, as well as I do. Do not smear into it
your own vague fancies. Study it, to find
what God has hidden behind its exterior
covering. Think of it and its meaning ; not
of yourself, and what you would like it to be.
Reverence, reverence, and for ever reverence,
as that same great countryman of yours
has said ; and I promise you that if it be buta
tuft of dandelions, or the head of the most
weather-beaten Miltterchen on the marketplace,
it shall be more worth hanging up and
looking at than a thousand of those things.'

'Your sayings are hard, but true,' she
answered, with a return of life in her cheek
and eye ; ' and I thank you for your lesson,
though it has been a stern one. Only tell
me  you don't despair of me ?'

I never felt such confidence in you as I
do now,' he replied, with a smile, and looking
at her as if he wished she would return
it. But Sara could not do that yet. She
sat still, resting her cheek on her hand, and

he paced about the studio talking to her, his
heart beating fast too, thinking.

Fine-tempered  true and pure gold. Does
the man know what sort of a woman he has
won ? Judging by my own experience of
such affairs  not.'

When Avice came in from her walk, she
found Sara and Herr Falkenberg in the parlour,
looking over engravings. Then Ellen
hastened to bring the coffee, and Rudolf disburthened
his mind of an invitation committed
to his charge by Fraulein Wilhelmi, bidding
Sara to a musical party on the following evening.
She promised to go ; and he, departing,,
held her hand somewhat long as he asked :

You have understood, I hope ?'

Perfectly, and am grateful.'

Then, till tomorrow evening,' he replied
bowing, and taking his departure.

THE LION AND THE MOUSE.

N the following evening, Sara,
when she arrived at the wilhelm',
found a large, gay party-assembled,
consisting chiefly of those who
had distinguished themselves In the heberden
Bittern the night before, or who had given
useful service In preparing them. Sara was
almost shocked to recognise, amongst others,
little Frau Goldmark, for whose benefit the
entertainment had been given. To her intense
nature It appeared strange and even
indecorous that the young widow should
present herself in this sparkling mixed company

 under the circumstances. Certainly
she did not put herself forward ; she sat on
an ottoman, in a rather retired corner, from
which she did not move, and those who
desired to have speech of her could do so
by going and talking to her. Sara found
herself near her during the evening, and, at
the moment, no one else was close to them.
She turned and spoke to her, wishing her
good-evening rather gravely. Indeed, since
yesterday afternoon, she had felt grave,
though by no means sad. She had reflected
upon Falkenberg's strictures, and the more
she thought upon the subject the more convinced
she was that he had spoken the words
of justice  of truth and soberness.

Ah, Miss Ford !' exclaimed Frau Gold-mark,
effusively, ' how very much I have to
thank you for !'

Do not mention it, Frau Goldmark.
What little I could do, I did with great
pleasure ; and I am very glad if it succeeded.'


each, ungeheuerr cried she, using an
exaggerated expression not beloved of Sara,
who wondered more and more that the Gentlewoman
had not had the sense to remain at
home  * Ungehetier! It will be a small fortune
to me. It is entirely your Influence, of
course, lieges Frdulein, which has induced
Herr Falkenberg to be so generous. And
I, who had been thinking that the picture
was only so much buried capital, that never
would be realised !'

I am afraid I don't understand you,' said
Sara, becoming conscious that some event of
which she knew nothing was alluded to, and
aware, too, of a disagreeably significant
meaning In the smile with which Frau Gold-mark
looked at her.

But you must know surely that, yesterday
morning, Herr Falkenberg went straight to
the Att.sstelhmg, where my husband's picture
hung, and that he bought it  bought it then
and there ; and when Herr Lohe of the
Ausstellung said that it was a fine picture.

Herr Falkenberg replied that to anyone who
had seen Miss Ford in that character the
night before, it could not fail to be a fine
picture. Now, what do you think ?'

Frau Goldmark laughed, never having
imagined that she would have the good fortune
to be the first to communicate this news
to Miss Ford. The reply surprised and
appalled her.

I think your information most uncalled
for, and that, if true, it is not of the slightest
importance to me,' replied the young lady,
raising her head to its utmost height, and,
without deigning another word, walking
away.

Frau Goldmark recoiled. She had imagined
that the information would be considered most
piquant and gratifying, and behold, the result
had been annihilation almost.

Though Sara had walked away with such
dignity, a most unpleasant sensation had
taken possession of her. It was most unlike
all she knew of Falkenberg that he should

VOL. II. '72>

make such a vulgar remark as that would
certainly have been ; and yet the illness
with which Frau Goldmark had repeated It,
staggered her. She stood, absently conversing
with Ludwig Maas, the very man
with whom she had acted In the picture, and
was chiefly conscious of repenting bitterly
that she had ever taken any part In the
affair, and Herr Maas was wondering a little
why Miss Ford, who, with all her dignity,
had been so sociable and pleasant to him two
days ago, should wear so cold and unapproachable
an expression this evening, when
Falkenberg came up to them.

Miss Ford,' said he, ' I have been talking
to Frau Goldmark.'

Indeed !' was the frigid reply.

I had better go,' decided Ludwig within
himself; and with a murmured excuse he
left them.

Yes,' pursued Rudolf. ' I saw that she
had offended you by something she had said.
She Is a tiresome, vulgar little woman, who

used to annoy me a good deal in former days
when I had dealings with her husband.'

I can quite imagine it,' said Sara, ' but as
I feel quite indifferent towards her, we need
not talk about her.'

There was a laugh in Falkenberg's eyes ashe
said :

But I do not feel at all indifferent towards
her, finding as I do, that she has been misrepresenting
me to you.'

Sara's face flushed, and her head was lifted
again.

Pray let us leave the subject,' she said.

No, I must ask you as a favour to hear
me. Frau Goldmark has a way of putting
the cart before the horse sometimes, which,
if innocent, is still annoying. She told you
that / had said to Herr Lohe  something
which, if I had said it, under the circumstances,
would have been the height of
impertinence, though the poor lite woman
seems to imagine that it was a charming
compliment.'

Well, and did you not say It ?' she asked,
still In the same unapproachable manner.

Can you for a moment suspect me of It ?
I observed to Herr Lohe that It was a
charming picture, upon which he threw up
his hands, exclaiming, '' Each! mein Herr, It
was always charming, but since one has seen
Miss Ford In It, It Is a ravir!' '

Sara smiled Involuntarily. Herr Lohe was
a well - known character In the Elberthal
artist world. The words and the manner
were so exactly his, that she could no longer
have even a shade of doubt on the matter.

I beg your pardon,' she said, all the stiffness
melting suddenly from her attitude and
expression, ' for ever listening to such a
story. It took me by surprise.'

Now you look less terrible, and more
human,' he said, laughing ; * less like those
snows so pure, those peaks so high," to
which the poet said he lifted '' a hopeless
eye.

*You are laughing at me,' said Sara,

laughing in her turn. ' I felt insulted, I
confess. What a tiresome, mischievous little
woman that is !'

Very. But,' he added earnestly, and ina
low voice, 'you were not insulted yesterday,
when I said some rather strong things
to you, the reverse of complimentary, and

yet now '

That was quite different,' she replied, her
cheek flushing again. ' And you know it,
Herr Falkenberg ; but you wish to torment
me because you think I am exaggerated in
everything.'

Since that is your opinion of my opinion
of you, let it stand,' was all he would reply.

Frau Goldmark sat in her corner, and
watched the proceedings from afar. After
having been made so much of for so long,
this was a grievous way in which to be
treated. Her feelings were assuredly akin
to those expressed by the oysters when the
walrus and the carpenter threatened to eat
them.

After such kindness, that would be
A dismal thing to do.'

Liber Simnel P thought Frau Gold
mark, who was accustomed, even mentally,
to the use of exaggerated expressions, 'how
could I know ? But who does know what
will please an Englishwoman ? Not I, I am
sure. I wish I had given her back her stare
but I never have my wits about me at the
right moment, and I dare say she thought
I was overwhelmed with confusion. And
when he came up to me '  here an expression
akin to cunning developed itself upon
Frau Goldmark's face  ' these men think
they have but to speak, and that then we
believe them. He '' thought I had made a
mistake," indeed. Whether I may have been
mistaken about that or not, can I not see him
now, talking to her, and the look in his eyes }
Bah ! it is easy enough to see what it all
means. People like her think they have a
right to toss their heads if one hazards a
joke. Would not she be glad enough to

catch him, if she could ? And if she does,
will it not be through me that they have
been brought together  their happiness made
out of my misfortune ? Each, jaT

Which leads one to reflect that there is
a celebrated fable concerning a lion and a
mouse, which relates how the former magnanimously
thanked the latter on being set
free from his toils through that humble
agency  leads isle also to wonder a little
what some mice might feel supposing they
had received favours of crushing importance
from the kingly beast, and had later been
rebuked for flippancy of behaviour. Perhaps
the feelings of the mouse on such an occasion
might not be altogether without resemblance
to those just now entertained by Frau
Goldmark towards her two most substantial
benefactors.

Late the following evening, Falkenberg
was pacing up and down the space jutting
out from the Hofgarten towards the
river, and known as the Shone Aussicht.

(Shone Aussicht  Belle Vue  Bella Vista :
why have we no name for It In England, we
who have so much of the thing Itself?) It
was the very hour which Sara had mentioned
as being her favourite one for strolling about.
Had Falkenberg had any idea of meeting
her there ? Hardly. He was scarcely the
man to go with such a purpose, especially in
the case of Sara Ford. He had come, partly
because he wished to be alone, and partly
because she had said she loved the place.
So much he confessed to himself; nor did
it disturb him In that he knew It was a dream
that he cherished.

He was thinking about her now as he
paced about, thinking of what she had said
about loving to watch the river, the Rhine.
Falkenberg watched it too, as it flowed
majestically along, eleven hundred feet
across, from one low flat bank to the other,
making a low, sedate music as he seemed
to march by, with his grand, broad, intermittent
sweep, having gathered in might

and volume during his long journey past
caste and crag and town, between the walls
of Mainz and beneath the frowning escarpments
of Ehrenbreitstein, between rock and
vineyard and village and hamlet, until he
came to proud Cologne, the fairest gem in
his crown, and then, broader and stronger
and older and greyer, went sweeping on past
the other villages and towns, towards Rotterdam
and Holland and the sea.

Rudolf saw not another human creature.
He ceased his walk, and placed himself on
one of the benches looking towards the river,
and, leaning his elbow on the back of it,
smoked, and abstractedly watched a great
American Rhine steamer, with Kaiser Wilhelm
inscribed on her paddle-box, which was
steaming slowly into the harbour to stay
there and be repaired before the next tourist
season began. The lights on her poop and
deck cast bright rays athwart the sullen grey
of the stream, but he did not see them
though he was looking at them.

 I wish she was not engaged to this
fellow,' he thought. ' Its young Wellfield, I
suppose, unless I was very much deceived
by what I saw at Trockenau that night. I
may do him injustice, but I have an idea that
when all comes to the point, he will look first
to his precious self. It is not surprising if
he is both vain and selfish, after the ordeal
he has gone through of flattery and gratuitous
love affairs and desperate cases, and girls
who have made fools of themselves about
him. But it is a pity that at last a noble
woman should have fallen a victim. God
forgive me if I do the lad injustice. I hope
I do. One can but wait the event.'

He knocked the ash from his cigar, and
gazed across the river at the outline, now
very dim, of a battered-looking tree on the
opposite shore.

'It is time Came to some conclusion,' he
thought. ' I have been dangling here long
enough. I have her friendship  I see and
know that her love is given elsewhere. It

would be simple madness in me to try to win
it. I am only burning my fingers and making
a fool of myself by remaining here  and getting

more in love with her every day

Ay, and I do love her !'

He flung his cigar away, and leaned
forward, gazing intently out into the darkness,
thinking.

If ever I had the chance of marrying her
if by any means I could induce her to take
me, I would do it, let the risk be what it
might Shall I stay a little longer . Is.
the pleasure worth the concomitant pain ?
When I know that I may not tell her I
love her, any more than she, if she loved me,,
could tell me so.'

As he thus reflected, and reflected, too, that
it was all a chance  everything was a chance
he watched how two men on the big steamer
threw out a rope to two men in a little boat
which was rocking in the swell in the wake of
the big one. Twice they threw, and missed ;
then prepared to cast it out a third time.

If they catch it this time,' decided
Rudolf, ' I'll stay ; if they miss again, I'll
cay good-bye to her tomorrow, and go
home.'

A third throw of the rope, a lurch of the
little boat, and the cry :

Gut ! Jetzt hal icJis'

I stay. Gut ! I take my holiday in
Elberthal instead of in Rome. What does
it matter to anyone but myself .f'

He arose, and walked straight back to
Wilhelmi's house, where there was, as usual,
a large company, many of whom had been
invited expressly to meet him. He went
amongst them, and made himself agreeable
to them for the rest of the evening. He
promised himself a month's holiday from
now. The chances were  for something
happening to Sara, to Jerome, to anyone,
which should lead events in the direction
he desired  one. Against that, ten thousand.
And for the sake of the one he
stayed.

UNAWARES.

What's this thought,
Shapeless and shadowy, that keeps flitting round
Like some dumb creature that sees coming danger.
And breaks its heart, trying in vain to speak ?'

Perhaps Sara Ford was the solitary
person who never gave a
thought as to why Rudolf Fallen
paid so long a visit to the Wllhelmis'.
Everyone else, from Frau Goldmark upwards,
had arrived at the same conclusion, and felt a
just and honourable pride In his own astuteness
 the conclusion that Herr Falkenberg
was what Is euphoniously called, 'paying

attention ' to Miss Ford. He knew the
report well himself, and knowing that to the
principal person concerned  herself  it was
as if it had not been, and not caring a straw
what was said or thought about him, he
took no trouble to enlighten anyone on the
subject. He came and went like an old
friend in and out of Sara's presence. He
was perfectly certain that Jerome Wellfield
was kept fully informed of all that was said
and done in their interviews, and that being
so, he felt that he had no other person to
account to for his action in the matter. And
he knew that his presence invigorated
and did her good. She had cast aside all
her dreamy fancies, and had gone humbly to
Nature, as he had bidden her do, and
Nature had not betrayed 'the heart that
loved her.' Sara had made some studies, on
seeing which, Wilhelmi, all unconscious of
what had gone before, had drawn a long
breath of relief, saying, ' Was, Kind! You
are again coming to your senses.' Fallen

had not frowned, if he had not smiled
at them ; he had said :

So you have laid hold of the clue at last,
which leads back to the narrow path ?'

I shall never rest,' said Sara, cheerfully,
until I have done something which you will
not scorn to hang up somewhere near the
roof of your picture-gallery. Then I shall
feel sure that I not only have the clue, but
am back on the stony road again.'

Some day you will do something which
the world will not allow to be buried in any
picture-gallery of mine. Patience, patience,
and ever patience !'

It was the morning after they had held
this conversation. Sara and Avice were
seated at breakfast.

I wonder,' observed the latter, ' whether
Jerome will come over here for Christmas }
Do you think he will } Does he ever say
anything to you T

Never,' said Sara, with a smile. ' But I
have very little doubt that he will come.'

It would be so delightful  a real German
Christmas at the Wilhelm', with a tree, and
everything proper.'

For that matter, you may have a tree
here, if you like. But  ah, here's the postman.
And a letter from Jerome,' she added,
as she took it from Ellen's hand, and read it.

Dearest Sara,

I write in exceeding haste to tell
you that an excellent opportunity offers for
Avice to come to England. My friend
Father Somerville, of whom I have so often
spoken to you, is travelling at present in
Belgium on business connected with the
college. He has to visit Cologne before his
return, and means to travel by way of
Elberthal, Rotterdam, and Harwich, and he
has offered to take charge of my sister. He
will be about two days in Elberthal, and I
asked him to call upon you at once, to
explain his arrangements. I expect it will
be the end of this week before he arrives.

This had all been arranged in such haste
that I could not possibly let you know before.
And now I have no time to write as I should
wish to do. I have had troubles  money
troubles. I will explain as soon as I am
able to write to you. Meantime this must
go to the post. Excuse its hastiness. Give
my love to my sister, and believe me,

Your devoted

J. W.'

When Sara had finished reading this letter,
she passed her hand over her eyes, trembling
strangely. She could not understand it. It
was like some hateful, inexplicable nightmare.
That the hand which had all along caressed,
should thus suddenly strike  and strike hard
passed her comprehension. The voice
which had been so tender was in a moment
shouting out a harsh command. No reasons
given  no one word of explanation as to why
Avice was so suddenly to be taken away
from her. It was incredible. There had

VOL. II. 34

never been any spoken or written agreement,
but always a tacit understanding that Avice
was to remain with her until she and Jerome
were married, and that then she should share
their home. It seemed it was not to be so.

What is the matter, Sara ? Has anything
happened to Jerome  tell me !'

For all answer, Sara handed her the letter.
She could not speak  could not explain it.

What  why ?' exclaimed the girl, in a
tone of dismay. * I do not understand.'

Nor I, dear T was the answer. ' I know
exactly as much about it as you do.'

I am sure I don't want to go travelling
with this strange man  carried off as if I had
done something wrong,' said Avice, less and
less charmed with the prospect.

If you have to go, I shall see that you
do not go alone,' was all Sara could answer.
She could eat no more. She rose from her
chair. Leaving Avice with the letter, to
follow her own devices, she retired to her
atelier, and there tried to reason it all out,

and comprehend it  and failed. It grew
more inexplicable, and more horrible, the
more thought she gave to it, until at last
an idea flashed into her mind, which left her
cold and trembling and miserable, with a
misery such as she had never known before.
Had any change come over him ?  did he
love her less ? She laughed at it, put it
aside, argued it away, and at last did attain
to a pretty certain conviction that she was
wrong ; but the misery remained. It was
there, like a dead, leaden weight at her heart.
She might argue away her first impression 
the first subtle intrusion of the idea, or
the shadow or the ghost of the idea, ' false,
but she could not get rid of the wretchedness
caused by the fact that the idea had intruded
that something had happened so strange as
to open the door for it to enter by.

She tried to paint, but could not. She passed
a morning of misery  heavy, unrelieved, and
indescribable. When she returned to Avice,
she found her too dejected, puzzled, unhappy.

342

I don't want to go,' she said. ' I don't
know what Jerome means, or wants. If I goto
England, he ought to come and fetch me.'

He had said no word of coming, as Sara
remembered, with a heartache.

He wrote in haste, and promised to let us
hear again,' she replied. ' There is sure to
be a letter tomorrow explaining.'

I don't see how it is to be explained,' said
Avice, despondently. * But if Jerome thinks
he can tyrannise over me, he is mistaken.'

Her lips closed one upon the other with
an expression of obstinacy.

Hush ! as if he had any thought of such
a thing !' said Sara, coldly ; but this exchange
of ideas had not resulted in lightening the
heart of either one or the other of them.

*AN ENEMY HATH DONE THIS.'

[HE postman did not call at all the
following morning, and Sara, she
scarcely knew why, felt sick at
heart. What a martyrdom those four or five
postal deliveries per diem of a great town
may and do inflict upon some of those who
are eagerly waiting for something to come,
and it never appears. The postman goes
past, or calls, with terrible regularity.
Scarcely has one bitter disappointment been
tided over, than one sees him again, with
the bundle of letters in his left hand, passing
along the street, or running up the steps.

There is the sharp fall of a letter in the box,
the sickening interval before , the servant
comes in with the salver, and on it a circular,
an invitation, a bill  never the thing one
is longing for so desperately. Under the
circumstances, give us rather by all means
the one delivery during the day of the dark
and barbarous village which is five miles from
everywhere. There one is at least secure of
an interval of twenty-four hours between each
ordeal.

Dinner, their midday dinner, was over ;
and the afternoon was advancing. Sara
could not paint ; so, saying she had a
headache, she did not enter her studio, but
remained in the other room with a book.
Ellen and Avice were both in the atelier.
Ellen with her sewing, which she usually
took there when her mistress was not painting,
and sometimes when she was. Avice
was painting. She had a very pretty talent
for making water-colour drawings ; and Wil
helm, out of his regard for Sara, had given

her a few hints on different occasions, by
which she had not failed to profit.

Thus Sara had her book, her parlour, and
her thoughts to herself, and felt the monopoly
to be of anything but an exhilarating character.
She scarce saw the printed page ; she was so
engrossed in her wonder as to what had

o

really been in Jerome's mind when he wrote
her that letter, and by the bitter sense of
indignity she experienced in the utter silence
of to-day. Not a line ; not a word from him.
It was amazing  incomprehensible! She
had not answered the letter. She was wondering
whether she should do so, whether
she should wait another day ; in the hope of
hearing from him that he had been hasty,
ill-advised ; that he had decided not to let
his sister return with Father Somerville.

Then some one knocked at the door, and
in answer to her Herein! Rudolf Falkenberg
entered.

Send me away if I disturb you,' he said,
pausing, and looking rather doubtfully at her.

Not in the least. Pray come In, Herr
Falkenberg, and try to instil some of your
wisdom into me, for I am a very foolish
person

As how ?' he asked, taking a chair near
her, when she had given him her hand ; ' and
what has happened, that I find you sitting
here in the middle of the afternoon, like '

Like a banker on his holiday, or a lady of
independent means, or some other equally
enviable person,' said Sara.

You will own that the position for you
is an anomaly, at least.'

I suppose it is. I cannot paint to-day.
I have other things to think of.' Her face
clouded. ' I am going to lose my dear little
companion.'

She told him this as a fact, though she
had been debating within herself whether to
wait till she heard ' certainly ' from Well-field.


Miss Wellfield I Is she going ?'

Yes. Her brother is ready for her to

come home, and as a suitable escort offers,
he has sent for her.'

I see. And that will leave you alone.'
When she Is gone, and you are gone, I
shall be quite alone.'

She looked at him as she spoke with a
frank, unconscious regret, openly expressed
in her glance, and In the tone of her voice,
before which he averted his eyes. It was at
moments like these that he felt the ' burnt
fingers ' he had pictured to himself, give
twinges and pangs of pain which were hard
to bear without either word or exclamation.
Tot vient a point ct qui sait attendre, had
been a favourite proverb with him, and he
still believed In it a good deal, though he was
aware, as most men and women who have
passed the boundary of youth must be, either
from observation or experience, that these
trite, dull, hackneyed proverbs have a trick
of realising themselves in a fashion the
reverse of delightful. ' Everything comes to
pass for him who knows how to wait for it.'

But how does It come to pass ? The oracle
sayeth not, and he Is a fool who asks. ' And
he shall give them their hearts' desire ' 
another poetical, grandiloquently sounding
promise. But how do they sometimes
receive their hearts' desire ? Often In such
fashion as to break the heart that has been
waiting and desiring so long.

I am the bearer of an Invitation to you
from Fraulein Wilhelm,' he said, not answering
her look and tone of regret. ' Or rather,
I might say, a mandate  a command.'

What sort of a command ? Lulse wishes
to command everyone,' said Sara, with a
languid smile.

She has arranged some private theatricals
for tomorrow evening, and '

Does she wish me to take part In
them .'

 No ; only to be a guest.'

And to see her and Max Helmuth In
them. I shall have to ask you to make my
excuses, Herr Falkenberg. Until Avice has

gone, I shall not go out. She leaves at the
end of this week, and I cannot leave her.'

I think you have ample excuse, certainly ;
though of course I should wish, so far as I
am concerned, to see you there.'

Thank you. Luise's parties have been
a different thing since you did come. I often
wonder she does not get utterly wearied of
them  I don't mean that I feel myself
superior to such things, but the monotony
of it all. Luise goes very little away from
home, and while at home there is scarcely
one night without some entertainment, either
at her father's house, or some one else's. She
sees the same people ; hears the same jokes,
the same stories ; dances with the same
partners ; receives the same compliments.
It must be unutterably wearisome.'

'Why so ? In it she is fulfilling her vocation,
just as much as you by studying art
fulfil yours.'

Does she ? That never struck me*
What do you call her vocation T

To please and attract is her vocation, to
become an expert in which she has studied
diligently and practised laboriously since she
was a mere baby, and that under every kind
of circumstances, and upon every variety of
subject.'

It is true. And she is very fascinating,
without doubt.'

She is.'

Since she practises upon every variety of
subject, I suppose she has practised upon
you } Has she succeeded T

In winning me ? Yes. I have been her
slave for many years ; that is, when I saw
that it was necessary to her self-respect that
I should bend the knee before her, I bent it,
and have enjoyed the greatest amiability and
kindness from her ever since.'

Oh  that ! I don't call that being won,
said Sara, with rather a disdainful curl of the

lip.

No ? What, then, is your idea of being
"won ?' he asked, as he trifled with the

leaves of a plant standing in a pot near to
him.

In the case of a man or of a woman, do
you mean ?'

Of  say of a man.'

Well, Luise has not won you. Have you.
read any of Browning's poetry ?'

Very little. Why V

There is a little poem of his about wear
Ing a rose. It concludes :

" Then, how grace a rose ?
I know a way.
Leave it, rather,
Must you gather ;
Smell, kiss, wear it, and then throw away." '

That is severe,' he said.

But true. And you are no more won by
Luise than the man who could so write
of a rose was won by it. But that is not the
way in which she has won Max Helmuth.
And she does not care to win any other in
that way.'

I believe you are right. She has more

power than I thought. Then do you think
she could really win me in the end ?'

No ; I should think not,' said Sara. ' I
know some one who, I think, would be much
more likely to win you.'

Who ?' he exclaimed, so eagerly that she
looked at him in surprise. He was skirting
dangerous ground, and he knew it and enjoyed
it.

Avice Wellfield, if she were old enough.'

Miss Wellfield ?' he echoed, and looked
at her with a look she did not understand.
Miss Wellfield before Fraulein Wilhelmi,
certainly. Yes, there is a wonderful charm
about her. If you were not so strict in your
definition of 'won," I should say she had won
me already by the mystery and poetry which
seems to envelop her. But you will not
allow me to say " won," of a feeling like that.
In the same way,' he continued composedly,
I should say that you had won me long ago
by your simplicity.'

By my simplicity ?' echoed Sara, not

giving a thought to the serious and decidedly
personal turn the conversation was taking ;
feeling only that it was a pleasant break in
the far from easy or pleasant current of her
reflections while alone.

Yes ; your almost classical simplicity and
freedom from every sort of affectation  a
simplicity which extends to your whole
nature, and which is so engrained that you
are quite unconscious of it. My telling you
of it will not cause you to lose it. I defy
you to lose it. I should not wonder if some
day it led you into doing or saying something
which conventional people would call outrageous.'


You are remarkably candid this afternoon,'
she said, much amused. ' I do not
see why you should have a monopoly of it.
I will tell you what it was in you that " won"
me, as you call it.*

And what was that ?' he asked tranquilly,
though he knew that never in his life before
had he been on such dangerous and difficult

ground. The temptation of hearing her tell
him that she liked him, and why she liked
him, was irresistible.

First, the unconsciousness with which you
wore your riches and your celebrity  for you
are celebrated, you cannot deny it ; and next,
your trustworthiness.'

Trustworthiness !' he echoed, as she had
done.

*Yes; you are trustworthy. *' My telling
you about it will not cause you to lose it I
defy you to lose It. I should not wonder If
some day It drove you to doing or saying
something which more conventional people
would call "  foolish.'

Sara smiled a little as she looked upon him
from her deep eyes, and Falkenberg answered
the smile with a thrill of exquisite pleasure.
It was sweet Indeed to know this. ' Two can
be steadfast,' as he had more than once said
to himself. These words of hers simply
confirmed his love, strengthened his purpose.
He would still wait. If he waited

long enough, the day might come on which
he might be able to serve her.

Why, you give me a iid pro qito he
said. ' I did not know you could make
jokes.'

Do you call that a joke . Perhaps I am
not so '' simple" as you think me. Perhaps
Luise Wilhelmi and I are in one another's
'Confidence.'

Upon what ?' asked Falkenberg. He
was leaning forward, his face resting upon
his hand ; his beautiful, steadfast brown eyes
looking directly into hers. He paused in this
attitude, waiting for her answer, and, during
the pause, the door was opened, and Ellen
said :

A gentleman, ma'am, to see you.'

She put a card into Sara's hand, upon

which card its owner instantly followed. So

quickly, that, when she had perused the

words :

The Rev. Pablo Somerville, S.J.,
Brentwood College

Lancashire

VOL. II. 35

and raised her eyes, he stood before her,
bowing, and regarding her piercingly, but
not in the least obtrusively, from his deep-set,
inscrutable eyes.

Sara rose instantly, a deep flush mantling
her face, which flush Somerville did not fail
to note ; while Falkenberg, whose composure
when he felt himself bien, well-off, at his ease,
it was almost impossible to disturb, merely
raised his head, and transferred the gaze of
his calm brown eyes from Sara's face to that
of Somerville.

Sara was deeply disturbed and surprised.
The visit was totally unexpected, on that day
at least. Like a flood there rushed over her
mind the miserable conviction that Jerome
had behaved at any rate with unpardonable
carelessness, if not with deliberate Intention
of wrong-doing. She knew nothing of how
far this man was in her lover's confidence
(and Somerville had no intention of furnishing
her with any information on that point).
She had not had time to consider and decide

whether she should receive him cordially or
otherwise. All this gave embarrassment
and uncertainty to her manner, and made it
quite unlike her usual one ; while Somerville,
as will readily be supposed, was as perfectly,
as entirely self-possessed and at his ease here
as in the Lecture Theatre at Brentwood, or
pacing about the garden at Monk's Gate
with Jerome Wellfield, and recommending
him to marry Anita Bolton,

Being a very clever man, he had formed a
theory of his own with regard to Sara, when
Jerome had told him her occupation and
given him her address. He had instantly
imagined that she was the woman to whom
Wellfield was ' in honour bound.' Now that
he saw her, he was convinced of it, and he
was not going to give her any assistance by
making casual observations. All he said
was :

I fear I come Inopportunely.'

I heard of your intended visit to Elders
Mr. Somerville, but had no idea you

could be here so soon,' she replied, distantly.


My business in Brussels and Bruges was
over sooner than I expected,' was the courteous
reply, as he took the seat she pointed
to. ' Mr. Wellfield asked me to call here
immediately on my arrival, and said he would
write to you.'

Yes, I have heard from him,' replied
Sara, reflecting with a cruel, bitter pang on
the strange style of that communication, distracted
how to act. Somehow she could
not accept as final Jerome's letter of yesterday.
She still clung to an idea  a hope that
she should hear from him countermanding
the abrupt mandate. But she could not
betray as much to this priest, for, from his
entire manner, it was evident that he at least
was following up arrangements which had
not been contradicted.

I thought it best to call now,' pursued
Somerville, pleasantly, perfectly conscious of
her disturbance, ' as I am absolutely obliged

to leave for England the day after tomorrow,
and felt that you ought to be informed of the
fact;

The day after tomorrow ? Mr. Well-field
in his letter spoke of the end of the
week.'

When I left Brentwood, I quite supposed
it would be the end of the week. But I am
not my own master in this journey. I am
under instructions.'

Which, of course, have to be obeyed ?'
observed Falkenberg, nonchalantly,

Exactly so,' answered Somerville, turning
his eyes upon him with the rapidity of lightning.
Falkenberg met them with the same
utter calm and unconcern. He had not
moved from his chair close to Sara's side.

Mr. Wellfield's last wish would be to
hurry or incommode you,' continued Somerville,
again turning to Sara, ' but if Miss
Wellfield could be ready by the time I
mention '

Miss Wellfield will be quite ready when

she Is required to go home,' said Sara, with
crushing coldness ; her pride In mad rebellion
at what she called to herself the Insolence of
this strange man In telling ke7% of all persons,
what were Jerome Wellfield's wishes In
respect to his sister.

Here Is Miss Wellfield herself,' she added,
as Avice came In, and she Introduced her to
Somerville. Advice looked and felt cold and
constrained, though Somervllle's charm of
manner soon removed her objections to him
personally. He began to talk to her, pointedly
going Into details about her brother, and
his great desire to see her and have her with
him again, which details soon began to
Interest Advice exceedingly. Sara writhed
(mentally) at this conduct, yet she could not
speak, for from all Somervllle's demeanour
she came to the conclusion that, however
friendly Jerome might have been with him,
he had not confided to him the fact of their
engagement. It was therefore perfectly
natural that the priest, if he were unaware of

this, should look upon the sister as more
interested than the friend, and should turn to
her with all his remarks and details.

Somerville himself saw it all, and his own
reflections were :

Mon Dieu ! A rare piece of pride and
beauty, I must own. He might well turn
upon me in the way he did when I suggested
his marrying the little Bolton heiress. This
is a prize not lightly to be resigned, though I
think his hold upon it now is loose enough.
How she chafes at the treatment she has had
lately, and what would not this other man
give if he could carry her off . Well, perhaps
his wish may be gratified. I am sure I have
every desire to further it.'

By-and-by Ellen brought in coffee, and
while they were drinking it, Wilhelmi and his
daughter called. Introductions and explanations
followed, given by Sara in the
coldest of cold tones ; but Wilhelmi, seeing
only some one in some way connected with his
favourite pupil, invited Somerville to spend the

evening at his house, and Lulse, perceiving
an opportunity of maintaining her self-respect
by captivating a stranger, added the prettiest
entreaties, and the invitation and the entreaties
were accepted by the object of them.
Sara steadily refused to leave her own home
until after Avice had gone, and Luise, her
attention diverted by Somerville's appearance
on the scene, was less insistent than usual
when her will was crossed.

Then they all went away In a body, not
without Somerville's having observed that
Falkenberg lingered behind the rest to touch
his hostess's hand, and look earnestly and inquiringly
into her face. His lynx-eye saw
the faint, sorrowful smile which answered that
look ; and as he went away, he said triumphantly
In his heart :

The way is clear, friend Wellfield. Surely
you would not be so selfish as to stand
between her and such a marriage as is waiting
to be accepted by her !'

CHAPTER VIII.

FATHER SOMERVILLE GATHERS THE THREADS
TOGETHER.

Sara had a short visit on the following
mornings from Father Somerville,
paid ostensibly for the purpose
of telling her his arrangements, and
asking if Avice could be ready by a certain
hour on the following day.

'Yes,' replied Sara ; ' if you will be at the
Bergisch-M'drJi she station at the hour you
mention, Miss Wellfield and my servant will
meet you in ample time.'

Somerville's countenance changed a little.
Surely there is no need for you to inconvenience

yourself by parting with your servant,'
he began.

Allow me to judge what is necessary.
Miss Wellfield will not leave me except under
my maid's care, who will see her to her
brother's house, and can then return to me.'

He bit his lips and apologised, saying that
no doubt Miss Ford was perfectly right.

In the evening, despite her protestations
against it, she was made to go to the Wil-helms'.
Luise ' made a point of it,' and Sara,
weary of striving, and wishing also to avoid
painful conversation with Avice, who insisted
upon having all kinds of messages given for
Jerome, who she was sure would be dreadfully
disappointed if she presented herself to
him without such proofs of affection  Sara,
sad and spiritless, went about eight o'clock
to the big house in the Konigsallee.

All the beautiful rooms were thrown open :
there was talking and laughing, music
and dancing going on. As Sara entered,
looking pale and indifferent, but splendidly

handsome, as usual, In her cream-coloured
cashmere and pale roses wide glossy leaves,
Luise VVilhelmi came dancing up to her, looking
sparklingly beautiful, and glowing with life
and excitement. She was followed of course
by her gigantic Max, smiling, handsome, devoted,
ineffably happy, as usual.

Oh, Sara, your Father Somerville is delightful
!' exclaimed Luise. ' I have quite lost
my heart to him. If he were not a priest I
should run away with him  do you hear,
Max?'

Sara saw nothing in this even to smile at.
What was a light jest to Luise Wilhelmi, was
deadly pain and misery to her. Max Hel-much
laughed a mighty, not very meaning
laugh. Was he not in honour bound to laugh
at all the jokes or would-be jokes of this
sprightly little lady, who, so everyone said,
was so much cleverer than himself ?'

Look how amiable he is !' pursued Luise ;
even making himself agreeable to the poor
Goldmark there.'

Sara turned hastily, and looked across the
room to where indeed Somerville was seated
beside Frau Goldmark ; his pale, handsome
face leaning a little towards her, in marked
contrast with her flushed excited countenance.


Really, Luise, I wonder that Frau Gold-mark
persists in coming to these large parties
under the circumstances !' she exclaimed involuntarily,


It does look rather odd, doesn't it ? But
who would grudge her a little amusement ?
she will soon have to work hard enough.'

Certainly ; but I think if my husband
had been dead not six weeks, and I had cared
at all for him, I should not be very anxious
for amusement.'

I think Fraulein Ford is right,' said Max,,
audaciously hazarding an independent remark.


Max ! He only says that because he has
the greatest veneration for you, Sara, and
thinks all you say and do is right.'

 * Does he ?' said Sara, with rather a feeble
smile, while her eyes wandered restlessly
around, as they had done ever since her
arrival. ' Ah !' she added, a light breaking
over her pale face, * there is Herr Fallen
; I wondered where he was.'

He came up to her and shook hands, and
remained beside her. Luise and Max moved
off, she lightly leaning on his arm and whispering
in his ear :

Ntm, mein Liber, what do you think ?
Will you still say there is nothing between
them ? Did you not see how dismal she was
  quite verstimmt, I declare, until Fallen
came up, when in a moment everything
became couleur de rose. As for him, I really
begin to think that the unapproachable and
fastidious Rudolf has fallen a victim at last.'

And what wonder }' murmured Max,
peaceably.

Not much, I confess. But say what you
like, it is a tremendous match for her.'

Why so tremendous .' inquired Herr

Helmuth, who appeared not quite so complaisant
as usual this evening. ' I am sure
even Falkenberg never met a more beautiful
or charming woman.'

Even Falkenberg ! I can tell you, Herr
Brautigam, that if it had not been for a
certain long-legged, stupid fellow, who has
not a word to say for himself, and on whom I
took pity because I could not bear to see him
look always as if he were on the brink of
tears or suicide  if it had not been for this
fellow, I say, who put me into this predicament,
/ would have shown you whether even
Falkenberg was impervious to everyone
except a stony Englishwoman like Miss
Ford.'

Highly delighted, and completely restored
to acquiescence and submission. Max laughed
again, a mightier laugh than ever, and they
repaired to the dancing-room.

 * *- #

Father Somerville had a very long conversation
with Frau Goldmark, relating

entirely to Miss Ford and Herr Falkenberg.
He had won her heart by telling her that at
Brentwood there was a small but beautiful
picture of her husband's  a St. Agatha.

Ah, die heilige Agathe f replied Frau
Goldmark, artlessly. ' Yes, a very handsome
housemaid of ours sat for it  an Elsdssiii, die
Lambeth. It made a beautiful picture.'

This opened the way to a conversation
about the pictures In general of the late Herr
Goldmark, then to a description of the leben-den
Bittern, and the pictures in which Sara
Ford had taken part : to the fact that in ' Yes
or No' she had looked so beautiful, that Herr
Falkenberg had bought the picture the very
next morning.

Oh ! he bought it, did he ? That is he, I
think, talking to Miss Ford now.'

Most certainly, that is he. He appears
to spend most of his time in talking to Miss
Ford. We have all come to th. conclusion
that the only thing which keeps him so long
in Elberthal is Miss Ford's presence.'

'Ah! you think he wishes to marry Miss
Ford;

It looks Hke it. What is quite certain is,
that she would be overjoyed if he asked her.'

If Frau Goldmark could have caught the
expression in Father Somerville's half-veiled
eyes at that moment, she might have changed
her opinion as to his extreme affability. The
look said : ' How dare a little insect like you
presume to pass judgment on that woman !'
The man had no good designs towards Sara
and her happiness. She stood between him
and the accomplishment of a purpose which
had now crystallised in his mind into a set
scheme and plan, which he was resolved to do
all in his power to carry out ; but though he
would crush her himself, and smite down her
life, no spite would enter into his arrangements.
He perfectly comprehended what
she was, and knew that had he been other
than he was, he would have sacrificed all he
had for the chance of winning her ; he knew
that she had about as much desire to captivate

Rudolf Falkenberg as he had himself ; and
he knew that the woman beside him had a
small mind which could not rise to the level
of those who had roused her enmity, by first
doing her great kindnesses, and then, perhaps,
snubbing her a little.

That was nothing to the purpose. He encouraged
Frau Goldmark to ramble on, giving
him one proof after another of the attachment
existing between Falkenberg and Sara.
The latter he felt to be a mistake. Sara
did not love Falkenberg  she loved Jerome
Wellfield ; but the former he believed and
grasped at. Every sign of devotion on
Rudolfss part put a weapon into his hands
for the furtherance of his plan. He heard
glowing accounts of Falkenberg's riches and
great possessions; of his status in the world
of finance ; of his interviews with royal and
imperial personages and their ministers ; of
what changes a word of his could work in the
state of the Horse ; in short, every word that
Frau Goldmark said convinced him that here

VOL. II. 36

was a splendid alliance, waiting for Sara
Ford to ratify it ; that nothing prevented that
ratification, except the insignificant fact that
she was bound to Jerome Wellfield, and, incidentally,
of course, that she loved him asher
life.

He left early, excusing himself on the
plea that he had to travel early the following
day, and that he had one or two important
letters to write that night  which was true.
He repaired to his hotel, to his own room,
drew out writing-materials, and wrote :

Dear Wellfield,

I am going to send this off by the
midnight post, and as It is now nearly eleven,
I have not too much time. By doing this,
you will receive it twelve hours before my
arrival with Miss Wellfield. I called at Miss
Ford's house yesterday, and found her at
home. Do you know, once it came into my
head that Miss Ford might be the lady to
whom you told me honour bound you, but I

very soon abandoned that idea, for all the
world credits her with being betrothed, or
about to be betrothed, to Rudolf Falkenberg,
the great Frankfort banker. You know
whom I mean. If I may judge from my
own observation, I should say report was
right. He was sitting with her when I
arrived, and I saw that I was unwelcome to
both. He certainly pays her most devoted
attention, and she, I should imagine, was
far from feeling indifferent to him. These
envious German women say : " What a
match for her ;" but I think you will agree
with me that an Englishwoman like Miss
Ford (for I take it for granted that you do
know her pretty well) is more than worthy of
anything that any man of any nation may
have to offer her. She certainly is a magnificent
being. But enough of this. Your

o o

sister will no doubt regale you with the same
news, for she appears devoted to Miss Ford.
The latter sends her maid to travel along
with Miss Wellfield. I suppose we shall

362

arrive at Wellfield about five in the afternoon.
I have been wondering how your affairs are
progressing. How glad I should be to hear
on my arrival that the thing I so wish for
were accomplished, and that you had decided
to take that place which you assuredly ought
to have. Well, I shall soon see you, I suppose.
By the way, on our way through
London we shall call at the Great Western
Hotel to breakfast or rest, that will be the
morning of the day after tomorrow. If you
have any communication telegraph to me
there. Time presses, so, until I place Miss
Wellfield under your brotherly protection,
farewell.

Yours ever,

Pablo Somerville.'

Somerville himself sallied forth with this to
the General Post, ascertained that it was intime
for the night-mail, and that it would
reach its destination on the following evening.
Then he returned to his hotel, sighed.

undressed, stretched himself upon his couch,
and slept that sleep of the labouring man,
which we are told is sweet.

Sara Ford, too, had left the party early,
and, accompanied by Falkenberg, had walked
home. They maintained an almost unbroken
silence till they arrived at the great doorway
of her home. Then they paused, and
Falkenberg said :

After tomorrow morning, I suppose, you
will be alone for a few days.'

Yes ; till Ellen can go to Wellfield, have
a night's rest, and return to me.'

Then I must not call so often, I fear.'

Perhaps it will be better not. This place
is a very nest of gossip and scandal, and
though I do not ever allow such things to
interfere with anything I may choose to do
that I feel to be right, yet I never could seethe
sense of going out of my way to make
them talk. But should you have any reason
for calling, Herr Falkenberg, or anything particular
to say to me, pray defy the gossips of

Elberthal, and come. I shall be only too
glad to see you.'

Thank you. And  forgive me. From
things you have said to-night, I fancy you
are in some trouble of mind.'

I am,' she answered briefly.

Will you remember that I am your friend
and servant, and that any service in my
power, I would render you with delight,
whether it gave rise or not to gossip ?*

Thank you. You are a friend indeed.
If I require help or counsel, I will come to
you. But so long as I can, I must fight out
my trouble alone.'

They exchanged a handshake, and separated
; he to go back to the Wilhelm', and
bear his part as best he might in the merriment
; she to her room to slowly undress,
and bitterly to decide that to write to Jerome
under the circumstances was out of the
question, to realise with a rush, the great,
sad change and dreariness which had
suddenly crept over everything, and to

recollect Rudolf Falkenberg as one lost ina
wilderness recollects some group of strong,
sheltering trees, seen on the far horizon ;
distant, but safe when one should attain
them.

ABSCHIED UND RUCKKEHR.

HE morning dawned, and brought
the hour at which they were to beat
the station. There was the
brief time of waiting there, the averted eyes
and stealthily-clasped hands. The train
came In  another long clinging kiss ; then
a brief, noisy Interval of bustle and shouting
a last wave of the hand from Avice  a last
glimpse of Father Somervllle's pale face and
deep eyes  then they were gone, and she
returned to her * sad and silent home.'

The travellers were to arrive at Wellfield

late on the afternoon of the following day.
Ellen was to have one night's rest, and to
return on the following day to Elberthal, so
that Sara could not expect to see her until
the third evening after the day of departure.
It is best not to go into the history of those
days  those three nights and four days which
Sara spent by herself. It is enough, that as
each day went by, and brought neither word
nor sign from Wellfield, she felt her heart
wither and die within her. Hope was
quenched. She did not hope for Ellen's
return, but she looked to it for information :
Ellen would perhaps have made some observation,
would have learnt something as to
the reason of all this strange mystery, which,
while it lasted, so bewildered her that she
scarce knew whether she was in her sane
mind or out of it. She scarcely hoped for an
explanation ; she did not see how the case
admitted of one, but she waited  waited with
a forced patience, a false quiet, which forced
her to put an almost unbearable strain upon

her nerves, and which consumed her Hke a
fever. She would not reproach ; she would
not accuse ; she would wait, wait, wait, she
said to herself, a hundred times, and this
waiting was eating out her heart, while her
pride was humbled to the dust.

On the second afternoon, Rudolf Fallen
called. He started when he saw
her.

Miss Ford ! You are 111. What is the
matter ?'

I am not 111, only a little headachy and
nervous. I want to see Ellen, and hear that
Avice has arrived at home.'

His heart was wrung, but he could not say
more ; he saw from her manner that she was
in no mood for conversation, friendly or
otherwise. He went away, with a sense of
-deep depression hanging over him ; a disagreeable
Ahndtt7ig, as if some thunderstorm
lurked in the atmosphere, ready to
burst upon and annihilate all around.

On that fourth day  the day of Ellen's

return, Sara verily thought once or twice that
she was going mad. The horrible strain and
tension ; the dead, unbroken silence, suspense,
waiting ; the horrible conviction, which
yet she could not prove without this eternity
of waiting, that she was being slighted, insulted,
betrayed ; it formed altogether an
ordeal more scorching than any of which her
philosophy had hitherto even surmised the
existence.

At length, in the evening, she heard a step
on the stair ; the door was opened, and Ellen
entered, looking utterly broken-down and
exhausted.

Ellen !' she exclaimed, starting up, and
fixing dilated eyes upon her ; ' are you
ill ?'

I'm not very well. Excuse my sitting
down, Miss Sara. I can stand no more. I'm
not a good traveller, you know, especially by
:sea.'

Poor old Ellen ! I'll get you some wine.
Loose your shawl and your bonnet-strings.

Did you get a rest at Wellfield ? Did you
stay all night ?'

Yes, ma'am ; I stayed all night. I might
have stayed longer if I'd chosen to. Miss
Wellfield begged me to remain another
day.*

But you preferred to return to me ?' said
Sara, her hand trembling so violently as
she poured out the wine, that she had to
desist.

I did, Miss Sara. I could not remain
there.'

Not remain : why ?'

I did not like the things I heard there ;
and besides, Mr. Wellfield gave me a letter
for you.'

Oh ! where is it ?' she almost panted.
Ellen opened a little handbag which she

had beside her, and gave Sara an envelope
which she took from it. Sara opened it, read
the words contained in it, and looked blankly
round, with a face which seemed in a moment
to have turned ashen-grey. All the days of

preparation, of suspicion and suspense, had
been powerless to diminish the force of the
blow when it came.

My God !' she whispered, crushing the
paper in her hand, and then suddenly dropping
it from her fingers as if it scorched or
stung them.

As Ellen came nearer, alarmed from her
weariness, Sara put her hand upon the
woman's shoulder, grasping it with a grip of
iron, and confronting her straitly, said :

Tell me the whole truth. What have you
heard ? What has happened ? What did
you hear of or from Mr. Wellfield, that made
you wish to leave ? Speak out, Ellen  the
whole truth.'

I heard that he was engaged to the young
lady at the Abbey  Miss Bolton.'

And do you think it is true .''

I do, ma'am. Miss Wellfield did nothing
but cry from half an hour after the time we
got into the house. When she said goodbye
to me, she said : '' Tell Sara  no, I

can send her no message ; I am not fit to
look at her again  none of us are !" '

Her arm dropped from Ellen's shoulder.
She put her hand to her head.

Where is the letter ?' she said, wearily.
Oh, here !' And she stooped forward topick
it up ; but, as if growing suddenly dizzy,
dropped upon her knees, stretched out her
arms, and would have fallen had not Ellen,
running up, caught her, and pillowed her head
upon her breast.

My poor child ! my darling Miss Sara !
Oh, my dear young lady, don't take on
so. 'There isn't a man worth it in this
world . . . Well, cry then ; it will do you
good.'

But Sara made neither moan nor cry. Fora
short time, at least, she had in unconsciousness
a respite from her woe.

That man is a devil,' observed the old
nurse beneath her breath. ' I suppose he has
looked after his miserable self, as men always
do ; and my young lady may die or go mad of

it, for aught he cares. I hated him from the
first moment I saw him, with his soft voice
and cruel eyes.'

CHAPTER Image

I. A REED SHAKEN IN THE WIND - - - I

II. A CONSUMMATION l6

III. CONSEQUENCES - 36

IV. 'woo'd and married, and a'.' - - - 59
." STAGE V.

I. SARA 76

3 II. 'yes' - .- 89

-: III. IRREVOCABLE - - Ii

 - IV. DOUBTS --125

. V. mein genugen 145

\ VI. eine rise in's blue - - - - - 159

VII. WELLFIELD iSs

vi -

 VIII. JEROME - - 207

-. IX. A MYSTERY .- 220

X. CAUGHT . - 233

j xi. refunded 250

" l'envoi 264



STAGE IV.

CHAPTER I.

A REED SHAKEN IN THE WIND.

ELLFIELD's position had not
been altogether an enviable one,
during the last few months. In
his letter to Sara, summoning Avice home, he
had casually mentioned having had money
troubles, and this was true. He had shortly
before heard from Mr. Netley, that now that
his father's affairs were finally wound up,

VOL. III. I

nothing would remain to him save three to
four hundred pounds, then lying In the bank
to his account, representing at most some
twenty pounds a year. With this delightful
information in his pocket he repaired one day
to Burnham as usual, and during the morning
had an interview with Mr. Bolton, In which
that gentleman, all unconscious of what had
happened, offered him the post of foreign
correspondent to his house, at a salary of
two hundred a year. He was surprised at
the manner In which the proposition was
received. Wellfield started, and exclaimed,

Mr. Bolton  I  I cannot thank you  you
do not know what this Is to me.'

With which, leaning his elbows on the
table, he covered his face with his hands. In
truth, his emotion was almost overpowering ;
this event appealed strongly to all the superstitious
elements of his nature. Here, when
he had just been debating on his way to
Burnham whether he should not that very

morning explain his circumstances to Mr.
Bolton, and then and there take his leave,
leaving a message for Nata, and so cut the
Gordian knot which he spent hours daily
in futilely attempting to untie  now, at this
very moment came the only man who could
help him, and proffered him such tangible
assistance that, it seemed to his nature, it
would be madness to refuse it. A great strain
had been put upon his nerves lately. He had
expected and feared the news which he had
that morning received, but he had waited
for it as if paralysed. Now, everything,
gratitude, necessity, convenience, pointed
out to him that he must remain where he was.
It was most improbable that anywhere else
he would receive so much money, or be able
to find work which he could do competently.
Poor, weak and vacillating heart, which recognised
honour and truth when it saw them, but
which was too weak and vain to lay hold of
them and keep them ! Surely natures like

1  2

his are more to be pitied than any others
when their time comes for struggling and
deciding  the natures which can see the right,
but which never perform it, if the wrong offers
an easier task at the moment.

Mr. Bolton was naturally surprised. 'Why,
Wellfield/ he asked, * what ails you ?'

Jerome lifted his face from his hands, pale
and worn, and took the letter from his
pocket.

If you read that you will understand
what I must feel on receiving your offer he
remarked.

Ah, indeed ! I do see,' said Mr. Bolton,
when he had finished it. 'Yes  well, you
need not fret so much about that now.
Things don't look so bad. You have this
salary coming in, and something to start with
as well.'

i Yes  It Is the feeling of relief, after all this
strain which overcame me for the moment,'
he answered ; and added, earnest, ' Believe

me, Mr. Bolton, I shall never cease to be
grateful for the goodness I have received
from you and yours, all this time  I, of all
others !'

He spoke as he felt, and the remembrance
of Nata's goodness, and all that it implied 
of the miserable entanglement in the background,
out of which he could in no way
emerge with honour, let the affair terminate
as it might  all this brought a mist before his
eyes, and a lump into his throat.

'Pooh!' said Mr. Bolton, 'never talk of
that. We are not barbarians, to turn a
stranger from our doors.'

Jerome went back to Wellfield that afternoon,
firmly resolved to write to Sara Ford,
and ask her to set him free. When it came
to the point, he 'could' not do it. He could
picture only too vividly what such a letter would
mean to her. It was Saturday afternoon. He
would wait until tomorrow, when he would
go up to Brentwood to the morning service,

and would see Somerville and consult with
him. Perhaps he might even tell him the
whole truth. He did not know. He went
often to the services at Brentwood now.
They soothed him, and he found a satisfaction
in going there. Indeed, when one
reflects upon the fact that there are many
natures partaking of the characteristics of his,
one sees how to these natures some form of
religion, of an infallible institution outside
themselves, and yet within their reach, is an
absolute necessity ; and one begins to perceive
more clearly why agnosticism has never been
popular.

Welllield could never have been an agnostic.
He and such as he have not the mental and
moral toughness of fibre which enables a
man to contemplate the mystery of the
heavens above and the earth beneath ; of
the life and the death, and the pain and the
evil that are upon the earth, of his own feelings
and speculations, and their origin, and

the purpose and destiny of them  and then,
while reverently owning ' I know nothing,
and I will assert nothing, upon these things
has yet the courage to live up to an ethical
code as high, as pure, and as stern as that of
St. John or of Christ  expecting nothing from
a life to come, as to the existence of which
he is in absolute ignorance. The more part
of mankind want none of this ; they want a
religion, a thing that will let them sin, and
prescribe to them how they must get forgiven.
Such a religion was found in perfection
at Brentwood, and thither Jerome
repaired.

There was an unusually splendid service
that morning. A great dignitary  a cardinal
preached. The sermon set forth eloquently
the rewards of faith and obedience. He
assumed that all present had overcome the
initiatory difficulties, that they were all entirely
faithful and entirely obedient ; and then he
proceeded to depict their happiness even hereupon

earth, not to mention the joys which
awaited them in heaven.

Wellfield Hastened ; he saw others Hastening :
a haughty-looking woman in widow's weeds,
just on the other side of the aisle. She was
Mrs. Latheby of Latheby, whose only son
was being educated at Brentwood. He knew
her well by sight ; her pride and reserve where
proverbial. Yet she wiped tears from her
eyes as she listened to the sermon. There
was a profound silence  a silence full of suppressed
emotion, as the sermon progressed.
Faith and obedience ; nothing to do but
submit that private judgment which is
usually so ill-trained, and which invariably
causes such trouble, and ye shall have rest
tito your souls.

That was the burden of the discourse  that
was what echoed with so seductive a sound
in Welled's ears.

After the service he saw Somerville ; he
was presented to Mrs. Latheby, who remembered

his mother, and told him so; adding
the regretful smile which lent such pathos
and sweetness to her proud and still beautiful
face :

Ah, Mr. Welliield, if that beautiful mother
of yours had been here to-day, how happy
she would have been in what she had heard

. and it gives me a melancholy pleasure
to think that had she lived to bring
you up, you might have been standing
here, one of us, not a looker-on, out in the
cold.'

You are far too good, madam, to think of
me at all,' he replied, moved somewhat by
her words, and yet under the influence of the
emotion which the cardinal's word-picture had
aroused,

I must ever take an interest in the only
son of Annunclata Wellfield,' she answered ;
and I want you to come and see me  will
you ?'

I shall only be too honoured.'

Then I shall write this week, and appoint
a day for you and Mr. Somerville to dine at
Latheby  if you can come, father

I shall no doubt be able to come,' replied
Somerville.

Mrs. Latheby waited in the parlour to
have an interview with his Eminence.
Somerville walked with Wellfield along the
lane towards his home. Wellfield told him
what had happened.

I am superstitious, I suppose, according
to your notions,' said Somerville, ' and I call
it a sign.'

 I do not call it superstition,' stammered
Wellfield. ' I have myself been thinking today
that  that '

That you ought to follow my advice, and
ask for Miss Bolton's hand was the firm,
decided reply.

If it were not for this miserable business
in the back-ground '

It is your duty to tell the truth to one

lady, or to get some one to do it for you,'
said Somerville, in a smooth, even voice,
which yet cut his hearer like a whip. He
winced.

If you mean to stay here, you ought at
least in duty and honour either to propose
to Miss Bolton, or to tell her that you are
bound to another woman.'

Do you suppose I don't know that ?'
retorted Welled, almost fiercely. ' Have I
not been debating within myself until I am
almost mad, hove to tell her.'

You are nervous, perhaps. Would you
like me to do it for you ?'

You  heaven forbid !' he exclaimed
passionately. ' That would be to ruin  I
mean, I must think about it again. I will
decide tomorrow. '

As you are taking the matter into consideration,'
observed Somerville, with scarcely
disguised insolence, ' I would really strongly
advise you to reflect whether it would not be

in every way more advisable to tell the other
lady that you wish to be free.'

Do you wish to insult me ?' asked V/ell-
field, pale with passion.

To insult you ! I am simply trying to
advise you for the best. Remember, you are
now dependent upon this post of Mr. Bolton's.
If you or anyone else, lets Miss Bolton know
that you are engaged elsewhere, it might be
bad for your prospects. Girls who have an
idea  however mistaken  that their feelings
have been trifled with, are apt to be vindictive.'

There was a palpable sneer beneath the
even politeness of his tone. He had taken
out the whip  the whip which Wellfield's
own pleasant sins had knotted into a cord,
and which his own weakness and vacillation
had put into the other's hand.
The very first stroke had drawn blood.
With a chest heaving convulsively, and a
glitter in his eyes of anything but agreeable
import, Wellfleld clenched his hands

behind him, and said, composing himself
with an effort rendered efficacious by dire
necessity.

I see what you mean, but I must think
about it

Yes, do,' retorted his monitor, with a
smile. ' And I must return, or I shall receive
a reprimand. Good-morning. I will
stroll down to Monk's Gate tomorrow evening.
Shall I find you in ?'

I expect so,' said Welled, sullenly.

They parted. Somerville smiled as he
took his way towards Brentwood.

 He will come back,' he thought. ' He
has gone too far. He cannot do without
me . . . and he is half won. Mrs. Latheby
must flatter him, as she can flatter for us and
for her Church. He will come. I see him
coming. And when he is married to Miss
Bolton, of course she must learn the truth, or
they might live in such harmony that my
game would be spoiled.'

Somerville called early on the following
evening, and it was during this visit that the
arrangements were made for Avice's return.
Jerome was thankful for the suggestion. He
dared not go to fetch her himself. He dared
not face Sara. But one side of his character
his pride, we must call it, for want of a
better name  the pride which did not prevent
him from making love to one woman
while solemnly engaged to another, pricked
him sorely at the idea that Avice was
receiving Sara's kindness and living under
her care. He did not know how he was
to explain it, nor did he much care. He
was getting callous, and reckless, and
anxious only to find a way out of the
coil. Somerville had received his orders
suddenly, and was to set out almost immediately.
Perhaps the visit of his Eminence
had something to do with the matter. He
had had a long conversation with Father
Somerville; and had bestowed his blessing

upon him before parting. Jerome accordingly
wrote that letter to Sara, and on the
following morning Somerville set out on his
travels.

A CONSUMMATION.

NE afternoon, on returning from
Burnham, Jerome found a letter
awaiting him. It was that which
Somerville had written from Elberthal, and
it set Wellfield's heart on fire. Somerville
in his calculations had not forgotten to reckon
among the possible effects of his communication
that one which might lead Jerome to
rush back again to Sara's feet, shocked into
honesty by the fear of losing her. But the
priest had decided again,  No ; he will remember
that if he leaves Mr. Bolton he
leaves all his subsistence ; that his sister is

on her way home, and he has nowhere to
place her ; and above all, that he cannot
present himself to Miss Ford in the character
of injured innocence, considering the manner
in which he has been conducting himself.
Besides, it will be so much easier for him to
stay where he is and propose to Miss
Bolton.'

Whether by chance, or in consequence of
extreme and almost superhuman cleverness,
Somerville had managed to calculate with
mathematical correctness. Wellfield's first
impulse, on reading the letter, was to rush
off then and there in all haste, and never to
pause until he had found Sara, and clasped
her in his arms, looked into her eyes, received
the assurance of her love. Then, across this
fever of impatience came the thought,
creeping chilly :

When she turns and asks you to explain
your late treatment of her, what are you to
say ?'

VOL. III. 2

He knew she might love with an utter
abandonment of self; but should she once
suspect falsehood, it would all have to be
disproved, all made clear and clean, before
she would touch his hand and speak tenderly
again. And it was too hard, too cruel.
Avice was on her way home. Sooner or
later Sara would learn something of what
had transpired here, at Wellfield . . . What
was all this talk about her favouring some
other man ? Again the impulse was strong,
if not to go to her, to seize pen and paper, and
ask what it all meant. And again came the
cruel, sudden check. She would have a
perfect right to retort with a similar question
to ask him what his conduct meant  to
demand a reason for his late ambiguous
treatment of her. He might not write. He
buried his face in his hands and groaned.
What was he to do ? His counsellor
was away. For the first time he realised,
by the intensity of his wish to see him,

what a hold Somerville had gained upon his
mind.

It was a dreary, gusty November evening.
Round the solid walls of the old house of
Monk's Gate, the wind withered sadly and
fitfully ; the deep-set lattices did not shake 
one only heard the sound of the wind. No
passing vehicles disturbed the ear. The
quiet country road was profoundly still.

No one came to relieve his solitude, or to
divert his mind from its miserable debate with
his conscience. He sat there perfectly alone,
until at last he could bear it no longer. He
would go to the Abbey, and join them there.
There would be cheerful voices, honest faces ;
words to listen to  not this hideous silence,
broken only by the dismal sighing of the wind
about the roofs, and in the trees.

He snatched up his hat, opened the door,
and sallied forth into the night. The Abbey
gate was close at hand. Soon he was within
that dark portal, beneath the now leafless

2  2

avenue which shaded the river walk ; he could
hear the swollen stream rushing noisily along.
He saw a light in the drawing-room windows,
and, with an effort, he gathered himself together,
so as to appear composed and collected,
for they v;ould not understand his disturbance,
and the fear lest by betraying it he should
appear unto men a fool ' was sufficient to
give him outward calm.

Of course, when the servant opened the
door, Wellfield asked for Miss Bolton, and
was told she was in. But he was in the habit
now of ooinof unannounced into the drawings
The page knew it, and retired.
Jerome hung up his hat, took his way to
the drawing-room door, and with a brief preliminary
knock, entered.

A large fire was burning in the ample grate,
but no lamps were lighted. No one was in
the room, either, except Nata, who was kneeling
upon a tiger-skin, straight in front of the
fire  her dog Speedwell by her side. Her

hands were clasped before her ; her eyes wide
open, and her cheeks, with them, exposed to
the full fierceness of the glowing fire.

But she heard him come : heard his footstep,
and started up  a deeper blush mantling
through the red which the heat of the fire had
called forth.

Jerome came slowly up to her, and stooped
over her, and the firelight shone into his
eyes, and showed the hollows in his pale
cheek.

 Are you quite alone ?' he asked, and there
was no surprise in his accent, for it had
flashed upon his mind, as he came in and
found her by herself, that perhaps this too
was a ' sign,' as Somerville had called it.

*Yes,' replied Nata, rising to her feet.
Papa has gone up to Abbot's Knoll, to see
John : it is a wonder for him to be out, as you
know. I don't know what plots they are concocting,
I'm sure. John is perfectly mad
about some bird  a reed-warbler, he calls it 

which he vows he has found by the river here,
and he is going to overthrow some great
authority, who says they are never found sofar
north.'

And Miss Shuttleworth ?' asked Wellfield,
unconsciously acting on his secret desire to
know the coast clear.

Aunt Margaret has got a tea-party of
school-teachers. She always has one about
this time. . . . Did you want to see
papa '

I am afraid I don't quite know what I
want,' he answered, with a great sigh of exceeding
weariness, as he rested his elbow on
the mantelpiece, and looked at her with his
sombre, mournful eyes. ' I don't think I do
want to see your father  at least, I felt very
glad when I saw you alone. I think I want
to escape from myself and my thoughts,
Nata.'

Why, do your thoughts trouble you V she
asked, softly and timidly.

Sometimes they do, very much  to-night
particularly. Will you let me sit with you a
little while, or must I go back again to
Monk's Gate and solitude ?'

Oh, Mr. Wellfield, you know that you are
always welcome here, when it pleases you to
come !'

That is a good hearing,' he answered, and
such was the odd mixture of the man's nature,
he felt that it was good. He felt that from
Nata he would receive no blows or buffets, or
rough words  nothing but (metaphorically
speaking) tenderest caresses and softest
whispers. To go back to solitude, and the
harsh accusations of conscience, and the disagreeable
anticipations for the future, was not
in him ; so he stayed.

Do you never feel restless ?' he went on.
 Do you never feel as if you would like to
set off on some indefinite journey, and without
knowing where you were going  with a
sort of 'onwards  but whither ?" feeling,

that you would just like to go on and on, and
for ever on, till life itself came to a stop ?
Have you never felt it ?'

Yes, often,' said Nata, in a low voice.
She was standing opposite to him, on the
other side of the fireplace. Her hands 
soft, pretty, little white hands  were folded
lightly one over the other. Jerome, in his
idle sentimentalising, had time to notice that
she had on very pretty black-lace mittens,
and that the stones of some rings sparkled
through them ; that a gold bracelet was pushed
tightly up the rounded arm. He scarcely observed
her averted face  her eyes looking
into the fire ; her rapidly-heaving bosom ; and
he prosed on, because he liked talking to her
because it was easy to make himself out
sad, and blighted and persecuted.

I felt sure you had,' he said. * That is
what I feel to-night. But for your father's
goodness to me  but for the stern mandate
of reason and necessity and common sense, I

would set off now, this moment ; and leave
Wellfield, never to return to it.'

He had spoken this time without rhyme or
reason ; without any arrive pense  any
calculation as to the effect his words might
have upon her ; and when he saw what it
was, even he was startled.

Leave Wellfield ! Go away !' she exclaimed,
turning suddenly pallid. ' What
makes you say such a thing ?'

Should you care much if I did ?' he
asked recklessly and ruthlessly. ' Would it
can I believe it would make any difference
to you ?'

He was standing before her, looking, as
the girl in her sad infatuation thought, sa
noble, so calm, so undaunted, after all his
misfortunes  undisturbed  only sad and a
lite despondent after his reverses  more
of a hero than ever. Ah ! if she might only
tell him what she felt and wished ! But at
the moment something held her back ; she

could not say all  could not speak the words
her heart was breaking to utter. She drew
a long breath, and said :

You  it would make me very sad if you
went away, for then 1 should feel more than
ever what interlopers we must seem to you.
I should feel that we had driven you out
from your old home. And you speak of
papa's goodness  but is it goodness ' I
don't call It the work for you  drudging In
an office in that way, like some common
clerk. I should think after a time it would
drive you almost mad.'

Oh no ! It is only the getting into
harness that Is such hard work  the learning
how to become a machine. I fancy when
that is accomplished, and the routine mastered,
one can go on easily enough  almost unconsciously.
I shall get used to It sometime.
Meanwhile, I am thankful to be so well off.'

 You are not thankful to be well off when
you know you are very ill off said Nata,

with agitation. ' And you will never get
used to it. If you could you would not be
what you are  it would not all be so horrible.
. . Oh, I wish the Abbey  I wish the money
were mine, that I might ask you to take
it as your dgJit  your inheritance ! But
I can do nothing, nothing ; I am powerless,
helpless, and I believe it will kill
me !'

She turned away and threw herself upon a
couch, burying her face in the cushions, and
trying to stifle her sobs. For, with a great,
overwhelming rush, the conviction had come
to her of what she had really said  a sense
of intolerable shame, an agony of humiliation
was torturing her.

For one moment Wellfield gazed at herat
the prostrate form and heaving shoulders,
convulsed with sobs. Then he made a step
to the sofa, and knelt down beside her.

Nata !' he whispered, 'dear Nata ! Lookup
! I want to speak to you.'

But she would not raise her face, exclaiming
in a broken, stifled voice :

No, no I don't ask me ! I cannot look at
you. I can never look at you again. Oh,,
leave me ! Mr. Wellfield  Jerome ! for the
love of heaven leave me, or I shall die  I
shall die of shame !'

You shall not die of shame,' he said, in
the same low, persuasive voice. ' Nata, you
shall look at me, my good angel, and hear
what I have to say to you.'

With gentle but Irresistible force he drew
her hands away, and lifted her head, and
made her look at him, and in that moment
he had, perhaps, forgotten the existence of
Sara Ford.

Why do you speak of shame, Nata ?' he
asked, looking tenderly Into her piteous face.
What shame can there possibly be In giving
way to such a generous impulse, and in
showing a lonely, fallen man that there Is
one sweet woman left who cares for him.

and would make him happy if she might ?
Heaven bless you, dear, for such goodness.
But you know  you must know, why I
cannot take you in my arms and say, " I
accept that goodness, and offer you my life's
devotion in return for it." You know it
would be the basest conduct on my part
towards your father, who has treated me
with unheard-of goodness. I know he
wishes you to marry, and I know he would
consider it the height of presumption in me
to ask for you.'

Oh, don't speak of such things  of marriage
and such horrors !* she almost moaned,
struo-lino- to free her hands : but he went

00 o '

on :

No, I must face my future as best I may,
and it will be with the better cheer from the
knowledge that goodness such as yours exists
goodness which I worship and honour all
the more in that you have made it known tome.'


Oh, don't ! don't speak of it ! I cannot
bear it !' she cried, wrenching her hands
away, and again covering her face from his
sight. She felt as if she were in some strange,
delirious dream. Wellfield's looks and tones
thrilled through every nerve. Did he love
her ? Did he mean that if he dared, he would
tell her so ? She knew not what to think.
She only knew that he knew, and that say ordo
what she might, she could never undo the
fact that she had betrayed herself; and that the
one thing which would have made it all right
would have made the difference between
a nightmare and a vision of Paradise  the
knowledge that he loved her  was wanting.
Yes, despite his caressing tones, his eloquent
eyes, his tender words, she did not understand
that he loved her.

Do not be so distressed,' he said. ' I will
never speak of it again, if you desire me to be
silent. I will forget it  anything  only, dear,
do not be so unhappy !'

I hear them coming said Nata, her ear
preternaturally quick.  I hear their voices.
I cannot see them  they must not see me.
Tell them  tell them I am ill  for I am 
and  let me go !'

'Yes  stop one moment, Nata!' he answered,
clasping his arm round her waist, as
she was darting past him.

Let me go !' she breathed again, but her
voice died away as his lips met hers  once and
again, and he said, in a low, passionate voice :

There ! We have that, whatever may
happen in the future. Nata  my Nata!'

He loosed his arm., and she had flashed
past him, and out of the room, in a second.

Jerome was left standing on the rug, feeling,
he too, as if he had just gone through
some mad fit of delirium. What had hurried
him on to that act of a moment ago ? He
stood with bated breath, and eyebrows drawn
together  then breathing again, a long, nervous
breath, he muttered :

By G  , I am a villain !'

And in the moment that ensued between
this confession of conscience, and the entrance
of the others, he had time too to realise that
one cannot be a villain one moment, and have
done with the villainy and its effects In the
next instant. One woman's heart, at least,
just go near to break, in punishment for
his sin of this night  or rather, for this night's
consummation of his sin. It lay with him to
decide which woman must suffer  Nata, who
was here, close by, and whose agonies he
must watch ; or Sara Ford, away in Elders
and alone, now  and whom he would
not be able to see, let her have what she
might to endure  Sara, who had loved him
all along  who loved him still, as he knew,
and would have known, had fifty letters come
to tell him how devoted she and Rudolf 
were, the one to the other. Which
woman was to have the blow from his
'Cowardly hand ?

An ugly problem ; one which would require
answering very soon  but not to-night. It
might be delayed till to morrow.

He felt a sense of relief at this, as Mr.
Bolton and John Leyburn came in, and they
began to ask him why he was alone, and what
had become of Nata.

The three men supped alone that night.
When John Leyburn was departing, and
Wellfield was about to go with him, Mr.
Bolton stopped him, saying he wanted to
speak to him. Jerome, still thankful to have
excuses which delayed his home-going, remained
willingly. One other surprise was in
store for him that night. Mr. Bolton, in his
usual stilted and pedantic, but most distinct
and unequivocal style, informed himthat he had
that evening been taking counsel with John
Leyburn, as his most trusted friend, upon
several important matters. That in the main
John agreed with him, and that he wished to
lose no time in telling him, Jerome Wellfield,

VOL. III. 3

that, after profound consideration, he had come
to the conclusion that it would be for his own
pleasure and his daughters happiness if a
marriage between her and him  Wellfield 
could be concluded.

If you feel warranted, by your feelings
towards her, in proposing to her, you have
my permission to do so. If not  you will
excuse my speaking plainly  your visits here
will have to cease, for I do not wish her
happiness to be imperilled.'

Wellfield passed his hand over his eyes :
he was almost stunned. At that moment
things stood out clearly, and, so it seemed to
him, the right bearings of them. To think
of ever marrying Sara now was hopeless.
Love must be cast aside, and duty embraced
instead. He was perhaps not conscious that
he was elaborately and ingeniously evading
and concealing the truth, when he said :

But for feeling sure that I should displease
you exceedingly, and that it would be an ill

return for your benefits, for a penniless fellow
like myself to speak to her, I should have
proposed to her to-night.'

Mr. Bolton's face brightened.

Ah !' he said, ' I knew there was a liking
on both sides. That makes it smooth. Propose
to her tomorrow morning, instead of
to-night. You will have her to yourself, for I
shall be in town.'

They shook hands, but Wellfield's eyes did
not meet those of Mr. Bolton as he went
through the ceremony. He went away. Then
it was upon that proud head of Sara Ford
that the stroke was to fall, and he was the
miserable wretch whose hand was to deal it.

CONSEQUENCES.

ELLFIELD, at last left alone to
ponder upon his position, felt himself
in thoroughly evil case. Once
or twice a wonder crossed his mind as to
whether there were yet time to turn back,
retrace his steps along this dire and darksome
path ; fight his way back to the light, and to
Sara Ford; confess everything, and put himself
and his fate in her hands. He had a longing
to do it, but when he reflected what that
course involved, he had not the courage. It
was to lose every assured present advantage
for a problematical one ; for he could not  at

least he said so to himself  be sure that Sara
would forgive ; and if she did not

He followed Mr. Bolton's advice, and it
struck him once or twice that it was an unusual
thing for a man in Mr. Bolton's position
to have deliberately invited a ruined manlike
himself, without friends and without
references, to marry his only daughter, and
enter his family. Perhaps, had he heard Mr.
Bolton's confidential conversation of the night
before with John Leyburn, he might have
felt the distinction less flattering. John and
Mr. Bolton had agreed that a great change
had come over Nata, and both of them, though
they did not openly speak it out, and confess
it, owned tacitly that they considered that
change had been brought about by her feelings
for Jerome Wellfield. And Mr. Bolton
had said :

He'll never be any great shakes as a man
of business, but it seems to me that it is safe
enough to put the management of his own 

what used to be his own  place into his hands.
He will have every inducement to care for it.
And if it will make Nata happy, why should
I refuse her that happiness simply because the
man has no money ? He Is steady and honest,
that seems certain. I've taken the trouble
and the precaution to find out all about his
college career, and his habits there. It's all
quite satisfactory  less backbone than I could
have wished in my girl's husband, but novice
; music and painting and aesthetics  Nata
likes that sort of thing. Do you think I ama
great fool Y

I think you are behaving In a very natural
and very sensible manner,' said John. * He
seems to me to be all you say ; and if he only
makes Nata happy, what more is needed ?'

'Exactly what I think,' said Mr. Bolton.
Now, leave your books and come and have
supper with us. We haven't seen as much of
you as we ought to have done.'

John shut up the great folio book on ornithology

which he had been studying when
Mr. Bolton arrived, and picked up some
water-colour drawings of different wild birds
which lay beside the book. They were exquisitely
finished, and, as one could see, copied
by a faithful and loving hand, from nature.

I promised these things to Nita/ he
casually observed. ' Perhaps she won't care
much about them now. But I will take them,
at any rate.'

Mr. Bolton picked them up and looked at
them.

They are very nice,' he observed. ' I wish
some other people had such innocent tastes
and habits, and would confine their studies to
natural objects like these.'

John laughed, a little sarcastically, as he
put away his book, and taking the sketches in
his hand announced that he was ready.

When Nata is married  or if she marries,
Jack, you'll have to look out for a wife yourself,'
observed Mr. Bolton.

Perhaps Nata will look out for someone,
then, and do the courting" for me,' said John,
drily. * I have no mind to begin it on my
own account  and am not likely to find
favour if I did.'

There you talk rubbish, despite that sage
head of yours,' replied his elderly friend. ' Suppose
you delegate the choice to my cousin ;
she has a wonderfully good opinion of you.'

John laughed aloud. ' If her opinion of me
is so high, it might be a dangerous thing to
confide the choice to her,' he remarked.

She might take a fancy to Abbot's Knoll,
and the master of it !' exclaimed Mr. Bolton,
highly delighted. ' There is no accounting
for the presumptuous fancies which enter a
young man's head. Here we are !'

They had gone in, little suspecting the
scene which was even then coming to an end,
and the rest of the evening had been passed
as has been related.

Jerome naturally knew nothing of all this

conversation. He went to the Abbey the
following morning, and there was an 
rhyme running in his
head as he took his way there  that rhyme
which olives the excellent advice :

Be sure you're well off with the old love
Before you are on with the new.'

He found Nata at home, and alone  startled
and surprised to see him ; overwhelmed with
confusion as the sight of him recalled the
scene of last night.

Muttering some incoherent words she
would have made her escape, but Jerome
stopped her, and taking her hands, looked
into her face with an expression of such
intense gravity, even severity, that she gazed
up at him spell-bound and fascinated.

Did your father say anything to you this
morning about me ?' he asked.

'No whispered Nata. 'Why  what  he

has not told sou to go away  oh, he has no
told you that ?'

No. We were talking about you last
night, Nata, and he told me this, that if you
would marry me, I might stay ; but if not,
theft I was to go. What do you say ? May
I stay ? Will you let me try to make you
happy, or must I go ?'

Nata was nerveless, cold, and trembling 
perhaps never in her life had she felt so unhappy
as in this moment  which should have
been the one of supreme delight when the
man she loved with all her soul asked her to
be his wife.

'Jerome  I  do you mean that you wish
this ?' she asked desperately plunging into the
question.

 I mean that I wish it more than anything
in the world ; and listen, Nata  I would not
conceal this from you  that I have loved,
and loved deeply, before ever I knew 'you r
but that Is all over, gone, done with, finished !

1 cannot offer you all the passion of a first
strong love, but I can offer you my life's
devotion, if you will be so good, so wonderfully
good, as to take it.'

He saw the blank shade that came over her
face : he believed that she was ofoine to summon
up her strength of will to refuse him. If
she did, what was left to him  what in this
world to make life worth an hour's livlnof ?

'Nata!' he pleaded, in dire and dreadful
earnest ; ' for God's sake think before you
speak ! Do not cast me away ! Try to bear
with me  or  or  I shall be the most miserable
wretch that ever lived !'

There was passion  there was even anguish
in his tone  emotions which Nata read there,,
and which overpowered her. All her love, all
her self-abnegation rushed out to meet him :

Oh, Jerome, if you care for my love  if it
will give you one hour's comfort  it is yours,
it is yours ! And my whole life with it  for
I love you better than you can ever know.'

Better than I can ever deserve, try as I
may he murmured, in the deep tone of conviction,
as he folded her in his arms, and
soothed the passionate agitation which shook
her  and tried to quench the tears which
rushed from her eyes  tears which none could
have named with certainty as being of joy or
of grief.

But the die was cast : the bargain was
struck. He might return to his home with a
mind free of care for the future ; but with all
the diviner elements in his nature degraded,
soiled, maimed, for they had been dragged
through the dust, and grievously maltreated.

Avice and her escorts arrived late that
afternoon, and he met them, and they went
with him to his house. That is, Avice and
Ellen went with him  Somerville returned to
Brentwood.

Avice felt a chill dismay strike her heart,
at her brother's reception of her. There was
an absence, a constraint, a coldness in all his

words and movements, which would not be
removed. She expressed her delight at the
sight of her new home, and he absently replied
that it was very well, but rather dreary. She
felt very soon that some miserable explanation
was to come. It came almost directly.
They had got into the house, and Avice had
taken off her things, and was somewhat
languidly partaking of the meal which
had been placed before her. Suddenly she
said :

Jerome, you have never once asked after
Sara.'

She saw his face suddenly turn pale, and
his lips set. The hand which had been lying
on the table, trifling with a paper-knife,
closed upon that knife quickly and firmly : he
raised his eyes to his sister's face, and said
coldly :

Miss Ford  how is she ?'

Miss Ford !' ejaculated the young girl,
horror-struck. ' Jerome ! what has happened

? You speak as if she was nothing
to you.'

Nor Is she anything to me now,' he
answered, with that cold and pitiless cruelty,
unbending and unremorseful, which so often
appears in weak natures when they are
driven to choose between themselves and
another  when the moment comes in which
egoistic or altruistic feelings can no longer
be evenly balanced  in which one set must
prevail over the other.

Sara  nothing to you ! I  I do not
understand she stammered, with a sickening
sensation of fear and bewilderment.

I will explain,' he said, with the same
scold glitter in his eyes, his lips drawn to the
same thin line  a look she had never seen
Lin wear before, and which sent her heart
leaping to her throat.

'For heaven's sake, Jerome, do not look
at me in that manner !' she cried. * It Is just

just as papa used to look when he thought
some one wanted punishing.'

Do not Interrupt with such vague, fooHsh
nonsense he replied impatiently. ' I am
o-olngf to write to Miss Ford to-niorht, to set
her free from her engagement to me. And
I  wish to be free from her. I am going to
marry some one else.'

Avice had pushed back her chair, and sat
looking wildly at him ; her hands clenched
tightly ; her breath coming quickly, but
unable to speak a word.

It is as well you should understand this
he said, again beginning to balance the paperknife.
* To-night you will want to rest, I
suppose, but afterwards you will have to
meet the lady I speak of; and It Is to be
hoped you will conduct yourself with more
composure, more self-respect, in fact, than
you display at present.'

Then Avice found words.

Do you imagine that I will be false just

because It pleases you to be so !' she exclaimed.
 If you choose to behave like a
coward and a liar  yes, a coward and a liar
she repeated, looking full into his eyes with
an unflinching scorn that scorched him, ' and
that to the noblest woman that ever lived, /
am neither a coward nor a liar. I will have
nothing to do with this girl you are going to
marry. You have brought me home, and
you can make me miserable, I suppose. And
you can make me see her, I dare say; but you
can never make me like her, or behave as if
I liked her, or as if I wished her to be my
sister. And I never will. You may take
my word for it. I stand by Sara Ford to
the last, if I had to die for it.'

She spoke with vehement passion, and
looked transformed. She spoke too like a
woman, not like a child any more. And yet
she was but a child, and a helpless one. He
answered composedly :

It Is as well that you have shown me by

this specimen how you intend to behave. I
will give you till tomorrow morning to reflect
upon your position. Allow me to remind
you that I never asked you to behave to
Miss Bolton as if you liked her. It will be
perfectly immaterial to her how you behave.
But I want civility from you towards my
future wife, or, if you choose to withhold it,
I shall have to exert my authority as your
guardian, and remove you  in other words,
my dear little girl, I have no wish to make
your life uncomfortable, but unless you can
obey me without making scenes like this, I
shall send you to school.'

Now  school ' had been the horror, and the
bugbear, and the tete noise of Miss Wellfield's
life from her earliest childhood. She had
often been threatened with It; and seldom
had the threat failed to work its soothing
spell. On hearing Jerome's words now  on
seeing the cool unrelenting expression in his
eyes, and the slight sarcastic smile upon his

VOL. III. 4

lips, and recognising the absolute power he
held over her destiny  how easily he could
make her miserable, if not so easily happy ;
remembering that Sara was far away, and
that under the circumstances she might never
see that dear friend again ; remembering that
she had never sen this Miss Bolton, who
might be quite ignorant of all that had happened
 remembering, in short, her own helplessness
and desolation, she burst into a
passion of tears, of hopeless, agonised weeping,
exclaiming now and then :

What a home-coming ! Oh, what a dreadful
coming home !'

Jerome let her cry in the corner of the
settee, and took no notice of her; till about
seven o'clock he rose from his chair, went to
her and put his hand upon her shoulder.
She looked up, her face all tear-stained and
pitiful ; her golden hair tumbled about her
head.

I am going to the Abbey, and shall not be

in till after ten o'clock,' he said. ' Am I to
tell Miss Bolton that I may take you to see
her tomorrow, or not ?'

 I don't know,' replied Avice, hopelessly.

 Ah, you will know by tomorrow. I shall
tell her that I intend to bring you. Good-evening.
I should advise you to go to bed
before long."

But she did not go to bed. She sat in a
stupor of grief and bewilderment. While
she had been crying, Jerome had written a
letter. Her passion had irritated him, and
he had allowed his irritation to influence his
words to Sara. He had ' set her free ' (no
need to put such a pitiful document into
print  it was feeble and despicable, illogical,
and yet stabbing like a dagger, as such productions
 the efforts of selfishness to kick
down the ladder by which it has risen 
always must be).  He would not stand in
her way, he who had nothing to offer her 
no faintest prospect of a home, or of anything

4  2

worthy to give her.' In short, under the
pretence of consulting her interests, Jerome
Wellfield very decidedly asked Sara Ford to
dismiss him, to release him from his bond.

Avice, of course, knew nothing of this.
She only knew that she had come home to find
everything miserable, to find an impostor in
the brother to whom she had given the whole
worship of her youthful heart. And yet, was
he an impostor, or was he not rather a very
wicked, dark, bad man, like some Byronic
hero ?

She sat in the corner of the settee darkly
brooding, when some one tapped quickly at
the front door ; and then she heard it open,
and a man's step in the little porch. Someone
entered, saying in a slow, lazy voice :
I say, Wellfield, I thought I'd call to

wish Oh, I beg your pardon !' followed

in a more animated accent.

Avice looked at the speaker, and saw a
tall, clumsy-looking young man peering at

her, rather than looking, from a pair of shortsighted
brown eyes. On his homely, square-cut
face there was an expression of some embarrassment,
not partaken of in the least by
Miss Wellfield. She rose, made a gracious
bow, mentally casting a reflection of some
dismay upon her probably dishevelled appearance,
and said with self-possession :

My brother has gone to the Abbey.'

To herself she was thinking,  What a
great, queer, awkward-looking creature.
Surely he can't belong to one of those '* fossilised
Roman Catholic families " whom Jerome
told me about, as being the only aborigines
fit to visit.'

Oh ! I saw the light in the window, and
supposed he was in. I did not know you had
arrived.'

Do you want to see him particularly ?'

Oh, another time Avill do, I suppose. He
has just got engaged to my cousin and my
greatest friend, and I came to wish him joy.'

A pause. Then Avice said :

Miss Bolton is your cousin. Then of
course you know her ?'

I have known her since she was a baby.'

 Then you must be Mr. Leyburn, I am
sure. Jerome often used to speak of you in
his letters.'

Yes, that is my name,' said John, unable
to take his eyes from the figure before him,
with her lovely flushed face, ruffled golden
hair, and violet eyes at once bright with recent
tears and dark and tired with the fatigue of
travelling, and, it must be confessed, with an
overpowering drowsiness, to which she had
been just on the point of yielding when he
arrived. She was like nothing he had ever
seen before, and he felt tongue-tied and
paralysed in her presence  as if, if he spoke,
he would infallibly say something idiotic, even
drivelling, and as though, if he moved, his
boots would creak, or he would fall over something.
Together with these sensations, an

intense anxiety neither to speak as a fool,
nor to tumble down ; which combined currents
of emotion rendered his position anything but
an agreeable one.

Avice herself had beoun to think :

 He is fearfully clumsy, but I am sure he
has honest eyes ; and if he has known this
horrid girl all his life, he can tell me something
about her. I shall ask him.'

She therefore said :

I was too tired to 20 out to-night, and '

And I am keeping you,' exclaimed John,
hastily, shocked at the reflections called up by
this discovery.

Not at all. I wish you would tell me
something about Miss Bolton, as you know
her so well. Is she pretty T

John looked involuntarily at the lovely
face and form confronting him, and replied,
slowly:

Not very  but she is a perfect angel of
goodness, and very nice.'

'Ah!' said Avice, looking earnestly at him,
while a new element seemed introduced into
the complication. If Miss Bolton was good
and nice, it was not Sara Ford alone who had
been wronged.

Is she clever ?' she pursued.

She may not be exactly a genius said
John, 'but she is the very least stupid girl
I ever knew. She is charming. I  I should
think you would like her,' he added, a little
confusedly.

It is to be hoped I may, as she is to be
my brother's wife,' said Avice, in so sharp and
bitter a tone that John looked at her in
astonishment. Avice saw the look, and said
hastily : ' The engagement is a surprise tome.
I only heard of it this evening.'

Because it was only decided this morning,'
said John, with a beaming smile. ' Nata only
told me of it herself this afternoon. I've been
congratulating her, and it is good to see her
so happy. And I think I shall pursue Well-field

up to the Abbey, and give him my good
wishes there. Nata will not mind. Goodnight,
Miss Wellfield;

John's drawl saved his sentences from the
appearance of abruptness which might otherwise
have marred their beauty.

 Good-night,' said Avice, absently.

She held out her hand, and he shook it,
and then let himself out, painfully conscious.
that he knocked his feet tog-ether, and dashed
an umbrella or two to the ground in his exit,
in a manner of which Wellfield, and such ashe,
would never have been guilty.

As for Avice, she was reflecting more and
more hopelessly on the situation. Good,
clever, charming, and very happy. Then it
was evident that she loved Jerome very
much  and if she knew nothing, it was not
she who vas to blame.

Avice carried her meditations to her room,
where weariness soon overcame her. In
sleep she forgot alike the long journey home,

the strange, cold reception accorded to her,
the dreadful news Jerome had given her, her
own anguish, and the great wrong done to
Sara Ford. She forgot even to wonder
whether she should consent to go and see
Miss Bolton the following day, or sternly
choose a dreary fate, and, for the sake of duty,
go to school.

woo D AND MARRIED, AND A

WjrlTH the morning, when Jerome
asked her what she was going todo,
Avice replied :

The only thing, there Is for me to do I
suppose. I must go and see her, since you
Insist upon It.'

The flash in her eyes, as she spoke, was as
far removed from meekness as anything well
could be. Jerome recognised, he could not
help It, traces of Sara's influence  of her free,
grand, bold nature in his quiet little sister.

With Sara no good quality was suppressed,
and he had noticed, even yesterday, a franker,

freer, more open bearing in his sister. It was
disagreeably apparent again to-day, because,
of course, independent outspokenness must
be inconvenient and irksome to a selfishness
which has had to descend to subterfuge and
intrigue, and the conscience of which is no
longer a ' flawless crystal Yes, he recognised
the broad, bold seal of Sara's soul
stamped upon this fragile-looking girl.

I am glad you have begun to think and
speak more reasonably,' he said coolly.

'I do not think any differently,' she flashed
out 'I think exactly the same ; but I have
heard things about Miss Bolton which make
me think that I ought to pity her, not hate
her ; and I shall be silent about you and what
you have done, because I believe it will befor
the best  not because I agree with you.'

'I shall be in to lunch at half-past one,' he
said, 'and afterwards we can go up to the
Abbey.'

He could not answer her, but he could not

silence hers and his feelings were not enviable.
Avice, he perceived had the whip-like tongue
of her father, only with her the whip was
used to scourge all that was not 'pure and of
good report.'

Very well she replied, indifferency. ' I
shall probably go and see Ellen off to the
station, and after that I shall remain indoors.'

Ellen !' he exclaimed, for he had forgotten
her. He went into the kitchen, and gave
her the letter which she carried to Sara Ford.
He could not meet the woman's eyes ; he
could not look either easy, or natural, or self-possessed,
as he desired her to give the
letter, without adding word or message. He
perceived, without looking at her, that she
held herself stiffly, and received the envelope
and his commission in perfect silence. Then
he went into the parlour again, and had taken
his hat off the peg, when Avice called out ina
voice from which all the liquid tenderness
of their first acquaintance had vanished:

Jerome, is it permitted me to write to my
friend Miss Ford ?'

He turned back upon her with scintillating
eyes and teeth set.

Avice, take care how yon go too far he
said.

But there was not a drop of craven blood
in her veins. There was dauntless defiance
in her open glance, as she said :

Surely you never wish me to speak of her
as j//r friend again ! And I merely ask to
hear what you have to say, because I intend
to write whatever your answer may be. I
wished to take precautions  that's all. I
intend, metaphorically, to cast myself at her
feet, and beg her not to visit the sins of my
brother too hardly upon me.'

Since you have made up your mind what
to do, it was unnecessary to ask me,' he answered,
setting his teeth.

I take that as a most gracious permission.
I am glad that you see and speak more

reasonably she retorted, mocking his own
words.

He did not speak, but left the house, and
during his short journey to the station he felt
it was a degrading feeling, no doubt  but
he, Jerome Wellfield, who, six months ago,
had been as proud, as fastidious, and as exclusive
a young man as any one of them that
trod this earth, crouched morally at that
moment, like a whipped hound. He was
conscious of a cowardly longing to make Avice
and Nata known to one another as speedily
as possible. He had an intuitive conviction
that Nata's charm would soon wain A vice's
heart, and then his mistress's purity and
sweetness would stand between him and his
sister's tongue. It was a delightful, an elevating,
a soul-Inspiring" position, and he
enjoyed it to the full.

Avice, left behind, broke down, burst Into
a passion of tears, and, engrossed in her
sorrow, was surprised by Ellen, who was

going away. To her she gave the broken
messages which Ellen had repeated to her
mistress. She was in too sore distress to go
with Mrs. Nelson to the station ; but parted
from her with more floods of tears, and cried
long after she had gone, till she had a headache,
and everything looked blurred and dim
before her eyes, and while she was in this
condition some one knocked at the door, and
on the servant opening it, Avice heard a soft,
gentle voice ask If Miss Wellfield was at
home, and the answer in the affirmative of
the country servant, who would have said
the same thing had Avice been fainting, or
raving in a delirium. No escape was possible,
for the front-door of the old house
opened, as has been said, straight into the
irregular-shaped, raftered parlour.

She gazed earnestly at the figure of the girl
-who now entered, with a great dun-coloured
mastiff at her side, whose demeanour proclaimed
him an inseparable companion. She

saw a slight, pretty figure in a large sealskin
paletot and a shady velvet hat with a large
black feather drooping round the brim, and
soft-hued brown velvet dress. Compared
with the splendid beauty and queenly presence
of that other woman this was an insignificant
apparition enough, but Avice's eye and heart
instantly appreciated the charm of the sympathetic
eyes, the mobile face, and gentle
manner.

Nata came forward, looking like anything
rather than a rich heiress who had just
triumphantly bought away by her gold the
allegiance of another woman's lover  which
was the character in which Avice had pictured
her to herself: it was she who was
blushing and embarrassed, and who said,
almost timidly :

I could not wait till afternoon to see you ;
and I did not like Jerome to bring you up to
the Abbey to me, as if I were some one so
dreadfully grand. I thought we could get on

VOL. III. 5

better without him '  she smiled   and I hope
you don't mind my having come.'

She held out her hand. Avice was overpowered.
With all her wrath and indignation
she was but a soft-hearted girl. The instant
she saw Nata she comprehended that it was
she who had been deceived all along. She
felt she could not hate this girl, even to remain
loyal to Sara Ford. She stood still and
silent, with a quivering lip. Nata saw it, and
took both her hands, saying :

I hope you don't mind. I will go away if
you do.'

No  no. It is very kind  very good of
you to come,' said Avice, her voice dying
away ,* breaking down entirely, she wept
again, as she realised the miserable hopelessness
of the whole affair.

'What is the matter?' said Nata, sitting
down beside her. * Why do you cry ? Is it
because Jerome has asked me to marry him ?
I hope not ? '

It  it is because I have left a very dear
friend,' Avice stammered, and then, with a
huge effort, she recovered herself. It would
not do  she must be composed.

Ah, that is sad. But do try not to be too
sorry. I hope you will be my friend. I have so
longed to see you, and I have asked so many
questions about you that I am sure Jerome
must have been weary of answering them.'

(' " Jerome " at every other word,' thought
Avice. ' I am sure she must be desperately
fond of him. It is dreadful')

She recovered herself, lifted her head, dried
her eyes, and smiled valiantly.

I'm very stupid,' she said.

She could not address words of welcome
to Nata, and the latter noticed it, but was
resolved to ignore it, and to make her new
sister love her sooner or later.

What a beautiful dog you have !' said
Avice, stooping to caress him.

That is Speedwell  my greatest friend,

next to John Leyburn. By the way, John
said he had disturbed you last night, and he
feared you would think him rude.'

I thought him funny said Avice, a small
smile beginning to creep to the corners of her
mouth. Nata sat and looked at her, and suddenly
exclaimed :

How beautiful you are ! I always thought
no one could be handsomer than Jerome, but
you are like him  ** only more so," as John
says. I hope you won't think me rude If I
look at you rather often.'

This kind of innocent flattery was very
pleasant. Avice began to cheer up, to forget
Ellen on her way to Sara with that dreadful
letter. An hour's conversation made the girls
like one another thoroughly. Nata was not
satisfied until she had carried Avice off to the
Abbey, and left a message for Jerome, desiring
him, If he wanted either of them, to come
and seek them there.

Here Avice was solemnly introduced to

Mr. Bolton and to Aunt Margaret ; and in
observing the latter found such keen entertainment
as to make her forget her troubles.
It was only when suddenly Jerome stood
before them, and she saw him kiss Nata, and
the quick, enraptured smile of the latter, that
the pain suddenly returned for a moment ; and
the thought of Sara, alone, gave her a bitter
pang.

John Leyburn joined the party at supper,
and was observed to be unusually silent ; in
fact, almost speechless. When Nata, being
apart with him during the evening, innocency
observed :

What do you think of her, John ? is she
not lovely ?' the unhappy young man
blushed crimson, and, not looking at ' her '
at all, fumbled wildly amongst some books,
and stammered :

She's  yes, she's  rather good-looking
John !' exclaimed Nata, looking at him fora
moment, and then breaking into laughter.

not loud but prolonged, and of intense enjoyment.


Well ?' said John, maddened in the consciousness
that he had said the very thing he
least wished to express; * rather good-looking '
being the very last description he would have
wished to apply to Avice Wellfield.

The evening passed over. As Jerome and
his sister walked home, he did not ask her
what she thought of Nata, and she did not
volunteer any observation on the subject.
Only, as she held out her hand and wished
him good-night, he asked :

Well, have you decided whether you will
stay with me, or go to school ?'

She replied, coldly,

I should prefer to stay here,' and left him.
Indeed, she had quite decided that she

would prefer to stay there. Avice had to
learn early to decide in a difficult matter :
she found herself face to face with a hard
problem; she acted as a girl, as one inexperienced

and untried, with no great range of
observation, no extensive data to go upon,
was likely to act. She was conscious that
Jerome had done wrong; she was aware that
Sara Ford, at least, must be suffering cruelly
from his wrong-doing, and the problem was,
whether she ought to tell Nata Bolton what
she knew, or whether she ought not to tell
her. She ended by not telling her; it
seemed enough that there should be one
heartbreak in the case. Nata's joy in her
love, her happiness, her high spirits, smote
upon the other girl's heart many a time
during the short engagement that lasted
only while settlements were being made, and
legal affairs settled : she could not find it in
her heart to smite down that joy and
happiness : she could not convince herself
that it was right to do so.

Meanwhile, two or three days passed, and
then Jerome had news  if news it could be
called, wordless and yet eloquent as it was 

of Sara. A small packet arrived one morning,
and the label belonging to it was directed in
her hand; bold, clear, and legible. He
opened it, and found the sapphire hoop he
had given her when she had promised to
marry him. Nothing else  not a word  nota
syllable  but that was enough, and more
than enough. It contained his ' freedom
and her condemnation of him  a condemnation
too utter, too strong and intense for
words. Wellfield had arrived at that pitch of
moral degradation in which he felt relieved
rather than otherwise, when the ring was in
his keeping again. He had opened the
packet at the breakfast-table. Avice saw the
ring, and with suave but treacherous sweetness
of accent, inquired :

Is that a present for Miss Bolton ?'
Jerome made no answer. He wished the
whole business were over, but he felt no
compunction now; no thought of turning
back or relenting entered his mind.

The marriage was not to be delayed.
They only waited until settlements could be
arranged, and in cases like that, settlements
are not apt to be tedious affairs. Mr. Bolton
(suffice it to say this) acted generously. Both
Nata and Jerome were amply provided for
during Mr. Bolton's lifetime. At his death
they were again to have an access of property,
but the great bulk of his estate was so
arranged that it should fall to Nata's children,
especially to an eldest son, in case there
should be one. And there was a stipulation
that Wellfield should continue to attend to
business in Burnham  at least, during Mr.
Bolton's lifetime.

To this Jerome agreed, nothing loth ; for a
constant leisure, with no fixed or settled occupation,
was a prospect he did not like to contemplate.


Everything ran smoothly  wheels which
are oiled with that infallible solution known
as ' wealth ' usually do run smoothly. Nata

had lost all her first doubts and fears. Jerome
was an assiduous lover; under the new influence
she bloomed into life and vigour, and
something that was very near being beauty.
The sad November closed for 'her in a blaze
of sunshine. The death of the old year was
to be the birth of her new life ; the entrance
to a long, sun-lighted path, down which she
was to travel for the remainder of her life.
Aunt Margaret's * croaking ' had to cease.
Mr. Bolton daily congratulated himself upon
the success of his experiment ; daily felt that
he had done right in seeking Nata's happiness,
not the gratification of whatever ambition
might have underlaid his money-making
diligence of the last twenty sears.

On the second of December  her twentieth
birthday  a dank, mournful, sad-looking
morning, with the leaden clouds covering up
the hills, and a raw mist rising from the river
  on this morning Anita Bolton became the
wife of Jerome Wellfield ; Avice and John

officiating as bridesmaid and groomsman,
Aunt Margaret as guest and Mr. Bolton in
his natural capacity as father, and giver-away
of the bride.

When it came to Nata's turn to say ' I will *
to all the portentous questions asked, Avice
saw, with a sudden thrill, and a quick remembrance
of all the dark background of this
wedding ceremony, how the girl made a perceptible
pause, and raising her face, turned it
towards her bridegroom, looked directly into
his eyes, a full, inquiring glance, and then,
with a faint smile, and a little nervous sigh,
repeated slowly and deliberately :

I will.'

It was over. The ring was placed upon
Nata's hand; she walked down the aisle of
the quaint old church  grey and hoary with
the recollections and the dust of many centuries
of the dead  down that aisle she went,
Jerome Wellfield's wife.

SARA.

For life is not as idle ore,

But iron dug from central gloom :
And heated hot with burning fears,
And dipped in baths of hissing tears,
And battered with the strokes of doom,
To shape and use.'

Lien NELSON had conjured her

young lady not to fret, for that

there was no man in the world

was worth it. But her words had

spoken into ears made unconscious of

meaning by the heart's agony  and for

answer, Miss Ford had fainted in her old
nurse's arms ; or, if not absolutely fainting,
she had been stunned and stupid with despair
and the shock and horror of the blow. But
that merciful unconsciousness did not last long.
Soon she roused again to reality ; opening
her eyes, and perplexed at first to account for
the blank dejection she felt  for the throbbing
of her temples, and the aching of her heart.
Then it all rushed over her mind : Ellen's
arrival ; her brief, portentous words  the
letter she had brought  Sara started up.

Ellen, where is the letter I was reading ?'
Never mind the letter, Miss Ford. It

will do you no good to read it.'

I wish to see it. Give it to me, if you
please.'

Reluctantly, Ellen was obliged to yield up
the hated scrap of paper, which her mistress
read through again, with a calm and unmoved
countenance. Then she took off Jerome's
ring, and with hands that were now as steady

as need be, made it up into a little parcel,
directed it, and said :

Ellen, I am very sorry to send you out
again, so tired as you are ; but if you love me,
you must go and put this in the post for me
get it registered, or whatever it needs  I
don't know. There is a quarter of an hour,
I dare not trust it to anyone else.'

Surely I will, ma'am, this moment. And
. . you won't be working yourself Into a
state again, while I am out ?'

Certainly not. Why should I ? That
packet that you hold in your hand  when it
is safely gone, I shall be at peace.'

I am glad of it, ma'am,' said Ellen, taking
the letter, and hastening as quickly as she
might, to and from the Post-Office.

On her return she found that her young
lady had indeed not been idle. One end of
the table was spread with a cloth, and she had
placed upon it bread and butter, and cold
meat. The gas-stand was lighted, and the

little kettle upon it was singing cheerily 
everything looked bright and cheerful, only
that Miss Ford's face was white and haggard,
and her eyes hollow, while just between her
eyebrows there was a slight fold, telling of a
world of mental sufferings.

Miss Ford !' exclaimed Ellen, almost
shocked ; ' you shouldn't have done that. I
could have got my supper ready without so
much trouble.'

Come, sit down and refresh yourself, Ellen,
for I am sure you will be tired,' said Sara,
composedly. And she insisted upon Ellen's
sitting down, and eating and drinking, while
she asked little questions about England,
sitting upright in her chair, and even laughing
once or twice, but always with the same
blanched face, the same unnatural fixity of
the eyes ; and once Ellen saw how, in a
momentary silence, a visible shudder shook
her  how she caught her breath and bit her
lips.

All this took away Ellen's appetite. She
scarcely ate anything, but professed herself
mightily refreshed with what she had taken ;
and then she rose and began to take away
the things, and suggested that it was time
Miss Ford had her supper too.

I don't want anything, thank you she
said ; and it was in vain that Ellen urged her
to take something  a glass of wine ; a bit of
bread  for she dreaded the results of a long
fast and a long vigil, coming upon this present
mental and moral anguish.

Sara refused, and there was that in her
manner, with all its gentleness, which prevented
Ellen from approaching a step nearer.
She could only grieve silently, and wish intensely
that her young lady had a single
friend to whom to turn in this emergency.
But there was no one, neither father nor
mother nor brother, to help her with sympathising
heart and strong protecting hand.
There was no one but Ellen herself, and her

mental attitude towards the girl always was
and had been one of deference, with all the
motherly love she felt towards her. Amongst
Miss Ford's various friends and acquaintances
at Elberthal, she could think only of one
whose face had Impressed her, whose manner
and  to use the expressive German word  
whose whole Ween had carried to her mind
the conviction that he was trustworthy  and
that was Rudolf Falkenberg. But he was,
so far as she knew, a new friend, and a man ;
not one who could be appealed to in such a
case. Thus, nothing, remained to the poor
woman but, when her mistress insisted upon
it, to go to bed. She did so, on receiving
from Sara a promise that she also would not
be long in seeking her room.

Wearied with five days' almost incessant
travelling, and exhausted with the mingled
emotions which had filled the last forty-eight
hours, Ellen, though she had determined not
to rest till her mistress went to bed, was soon

VOL. Hi. 6

overcome with her fatigue, and dropped
asleep ; nor did she awaken again until daylight,
pouring into her room, told her it must
be growing late. She sprang up, and throwing
on a dressing-gown, opened the door and
looked into the parlour. No one was there,
and all was still. Perhaps Sara slept. Ellen
knocked at the closed door of the bedroom,
and was bidden by a composed but weary
voice to come in. She entered, and saw that
Sara had never undressed. She had thrown
a wrapping gown about her, and was just
then seated on a chair beside her bed, which,
as Ellen saw with dismay, had not been disturbed.
As the woman entered Sara looked
at her  her face whiter than ever, her eyes
distended, an expression of such blank, utter
woe in her whole look and attitude as appalled
Ellen, who said in a trembling tone :
Child, you promised me to rest !'
Did I, Ellen ? Then I forgot it, and if I
had remembered, I could not have kept my

promise. I could not have lain still for two
seconds.'

But, Miss Sara, you'll make yourself very
ill, and you will break my heart.'

Oh, what nonsense !' she said, with a
sound like a little laugh. * What is the use of
lying down when one can't sleep. By-and
by I shall be so tired that I can't help
sleeping, and when I feel like that, I will goto
bed.'

She folded her hands, and leaned back her
head, and there was the same expression upon
her face as that which had been there ever
since she had given Ellen the little parcel
containing Jerome's ring to post  an expression
like the changeless one of some beautiful
marble mask from which a pair of restless,
wretched human eyes looked forth, haunting
all who can read the language they
speak.

Fear seized Ellen's heart at the long duration
of this strained, unnatural calm. She

62

dreaded the end of it. A terrible vision of
her young mistress, with perhaps reason for
cover overturned, leading an existence worse
than death, occurred to her.

I wish he could see her she thought bitterly.
* It would haunt him to his dying day,
and If It drove him mad, it is only what he
would deserve. To think of an empty fool
like that playing with the heart of a womanlike
this. 'Tis enough to make one believe
there's nothing but evil to prevail in the world.'

She dressed herself hastily, and prepared
some coffee, of which she induced Sara to partake.
The day dragged on. No one came
near. Even Falkenberg failed in his usual
call. Sara said nothing to Ellen of any suffering
she endured. The woman could only
guess from the utter transformation of her
usual ways and habits that she was enduring
tortures, and her own pain and perplexity increased.
Once Sara went to her studio, and
began to paint ; but in a moment she flung

down brush and palette, and began to pace
about the bare boards, restlessly.

She did not resume the effort : it had been
in the first instance mechanical.

The day appeared like a week to Ellen.
It was November, when the daylight soon
faded. The weather was cold ; there was a
foretaste already of a biting winter, in a
sharp, black frost, and a leaden sky, which
caused the day to close in even earlier than
usual.

It was evening. Sara had taken up a
book, and was gazing unfeelingly at the page,
and turning over the leaves restlessly.
Suddenly she closed the book, and said :

Is not this Wednesday, Ellen ?'

Yes, Miss Sara, it is.'

It is Frau Wilhelmi s evening at home.
I shall go. And if I do, it is time to get
ready at once. Will you just go and get my
dress i'

Miss Ford ! you are not fit to go out,'

exclaimed Ellen, desperation lending boldness
to her.

Sara looked at her, and repeated her order.
Ellen, In distress, asked which dress she
would wear.

Oh, any. The old black velvet  that will
be best, for it is cold.'

Ellen was perforce obliged to go and get
out the dress, and help Sara to make her
toilette, feeling all the time that it was as if
she attired a ghost. When she was ready
the young lady looked beautiful, as usual, but
it was with a kind of beauty which no sane
person cares to see. Face and lips were
ghastly white; there was a deathlike composure
and calm In her expression; only
those beautiful eyes looked restlessly forth,
dark and clouded, and full of a misery which
surpassed the power of words to utter, or tears
to alleviate. Sara hardly knew herself why
she was going out ; there was a vague consciousness
that her own thoughts and the

horrible suffering they brought with their
were becoming rapidly intolerable ; that soon,
if she did not see and speak to some other
beings, she would shriek aloud, or lose her
reason, or that something terrible would
happen. She looked at herself in the glass,
and Ellen suggested that she wanted a little
roucre.

Rouge !' repeated Sara, laughing drily ;
why, I am in a fever. Feel my hand !'

Ellen took it, and incidentally felt as well,
while her finger rested on Miss Ford's wrist,
that her pulse was beating with an abnormal
rapidity. But the hand was burning as she
had said.

With a dark foreboding of evil, Ellen
threw a cloak around the girl's shoulders, and
put on her own shawl and bonnet to accompany
her, for the Wilhelmi's house was hard
by, and at Elberthal it was the custom to
walk to every kind of entertainment,

Oh, how cool and refreshing !' exclaimed

Sara with a deep sigh, as the icy air struck
upon her burning face.

Ellen's reply was a shiver. They soon
stood at the Wilhelm' door, and, as Ellen
left her, Sara bade her return for her at half-past
ten. It was then after half-past eight.

The door was opened. Ellen watched her
mistress as she passed Into the blaze of light
in the hall, and, standing there, unfastened
her cloak. Then the door was closed again.
Repressing her forebodings as well as she
could, Fallen returned home, and set herself
to counting the minutes until It should be
time for her to return to Professor Wilhelm's.

YES.

And I was a full-leav'd, full-bougli'd tree,

Tranquil and trembling and deep in the night.
And tall and still, down the garden-ways
She moved in the liquid, calm moonlight.

Her moonshot eyes, strained back with grief,

Her hands clench'd down, she pressed from sight ;
And I was a full-leav'd, full-bought tree,
Tranquil and trembling and deep in the night.'

ARA laid her cloak on a table, and
followed the servant into Frau
Wilhelmi's reception-room. The
well-known scene smote upon her eyes with
a weird strangeness and sense of unfamiliarity ;
it was the same, with the accustomed sounds
of loud talking, merry laughter, and resounding

music. Light and sounds blended together
and beat upon her brain in a combined
thunder. She could distinguish nothing
clearly or distinctly, beyond the faces and the
voices of those who actually came up to her
and addressed her.

By a vast effort of will she kept her composed
impassive demeanour. When she set
out she had a vague idea that on finding herself
in the midst of a gay and animated
company, she would be able to smile and
speak and do as they did, even if mechanically.
But the effort failed. Her lips felt
stiffened, her tongue tied, so that smiling was
impossible, and only the merest ' Yes ' and
No ' would pass her lips.

Ivan, Miss Ford !' exclaimed Frau
Wilhelmi, taking her hand. ' You look ill,.
rec/i eleitd 2md legend. Have you got a
cold ?'

No  a little headache. I thought it

would do me good to come cut she murmured.


Had she followed her own impulse, she
would have turned and left the house aoain
instantly, but she had an underlying determination
to go through with the ordeal,
having once braved it, albeit it proved more
scathing than she had expected.

Then Luise came up to her, laughing,
with some absurd story, to which Sara listened,
thankful that she was not expected to
speak  interruptions being received unfavourably
by the volatile Luise. Luise did not
notice Miss Ford's excessive pallor, or if she
did was too absorbed in her own affairs to
observe it particularly, or be shocked by it.

Then came Max Helmuth, who saw instantly
that something was wrong, but did
not feel himself on sufficiently intimate terms
with Miss Ford to ask any questions.

To Sara, the whole thing continued to grow
more and more like a hideous dream. She

thought she must have been there an hour,
and that she might plead her headache as an
excuse, and go away. Looking at a great
Schwarzwdlder which hung against the wall
of the hall, she saw that it was just ten
minutes since she had entered the house.

The rooms were unusually full that evening,
and less notice was taken of her than
usual ; but several pairs of eyes were fixed
upon her in wondering astonishment, and she
was collected enough to see it, and to desire
more strongly than ever to get away. But a
mere trifle prevented her  the idea, namely,
of the surprise and pity she would see in Frau
Wilhelmi's eyes if she went up to her now
ten minutes after her arrival, and took leave.
She looked around for a chair, feeling like
some hunted creature which would escape,
but is paralysed with fear when most it needs
all its power of wind and limb.

And as she looked round, some one took
her hand, and a voice said :

It was Rudolf who addressed her. For a
moment the horrible strain of the nervous
tension under which she was suffering relaxed;
as she looked up at him her eyes wavered ;
her lips and nostrils fluttered for an instant,
and she drew a long breath. The end of her
endurance was coming, she felt.

Yes, please,' she said, in a voice that did
not rise above a whisper.

He drew her hand through his arm, saying,,
Let us eo to the hall  there is a bench
there ;' and as he spoke, he glanced casually
and unthinkingly down at the hand which a
moment aso his own had covered  at Sara's
left hand. She wore a pair of old white-lace
mittens  one of the few relics of old prosperity
which remained to her, and this allowed
her hands and their adornments to be fully
seen. As Falkenberg glanced at that hand,
he missed something. He paused, as they

passed out ; his eyes leaped to her face, to
her hand ; back to her face again. Sara's eyes
had followed his. The first flush of colour
that had touched her cheeks since Ellen had
brought her message of sorrow, rushed over
her face now. She understood the look, the
glance which asked, ' Your ring  where is it ?'

Yes she said, beneath her breath, and
then, as if mastering a momentary weakness,
she recovered herself; her face took the
same marble whiteness again. She let him
lead her to a cushioned bench near a pyramid
of ferns and a little fountain, which stood In the
centre of the hall. She sat down, but it was
only for a moment. Then she started up
again, *Will you  would you mind taking
me home again ? I  I feel ill,' she faltered,
her powers of endurance at an end.

'Surely I will,' he answered, finding her
cloak and wrapping It round her.

Sara gathered up her dress, took his arm,
and they passed out of the house.

Five minutes' walking brought them to the
door of her home. Falkenberg rang the bell,
and as they waited, he said :

Miss Ford, may I come in ? There is
something I want to say to you

Oh yes ! Come in and say what you
like !' she replied ; and now that she had
found speech again, the impulse to reveal her
agony was uncontrollable  or, rather, the
power of concealing it, of speaking of other
things, had disappeared. ' Say what you like,'
she repeated. ' If you had come to say you
had brought something to kill me with, I
would thank you on my knees.'

Yes, I know you would, but I have not
brought that,' he answered, as the door
swung open from within, and they entered.

Ellen started up on seeing them.

Oh, sir, I am glad you have brought Miss
Ford home !' she exclaimed.

Leave us, Ellen,' said her mistress. *Herr
Falkenberg wishes to speak with me.'

Ellen left the room. Sara looked at her
guest. He, too, was pale, and his eyes full
of a deep and serious purpose. His heart,
too, was aching, with a pain almost as intolerable
as that of her own.

He read the whole story ; that which
caused his pain was his own powerlessness to
help her. He knew her better than she knew
herself. He knew that it was not grief which
gave the keenest sting to her present agony,
but her outraged pride  the blow which had
been dealt to her honour and her self-respect.
It was upon that feeling that he calculated
now, in what he was about to do. It was
upon that, that he staked his whole hopes, ashe
threw. He had told her once that she
might, some day, do something which conventional
people would call outrageous. He
was bent now upon persuading her to such a
deed, and he trusted chiefly to that infuriated
pride to help him.

Well ?' she said, with a harsh lauorh, ' have

you come to talk about my missing ring,
Herr Falkenberg ? Do you want to know-where
it is, and who has it now ? I can inform
you that it has gone back to the man
who eave it me  because  because he has
sent me word that I am free. He thinks of
marrying some one else.'

There was a discordant, grating sound in
her voice, and she laughed again. The laugh
encouraged Rudolf in his purpose.

I guessed it was something like that,' he
said,  when I saw that it was gone. The
man could neither appreciate nor understand
you. I have felt it for a long time.'

Is that to console me ?' she asked sarcastically.


It should console you, in time. Women
of such stuff as you are made of cannot grieve
for ever for a coxcomb. If they do, they degrade
themselves to his level.'

He saw the scarlet colour that rushed over
her face and throat, and the strangely

VOL. III. 7

mingled glance she threw towards him. He
had not miscalculated.

You did not know him. * You have no
right to call him a coxcomb she said. * You
slight me by '

 By supposing you capable of making a
mistake ? There you are wrong. The only
thing that can be infallibly predicted by one
human being of another, is that during his
life he will make a great many mistakes. I
should slight you if I supposed you capable
for a moment of breaking your heart for
Jerome Wellfield.'

He had spoken the name advisedly. It
had never passed between them before. Its
effect was to make her cover her face with
her hands, and cry faintly and pitiably.

As Falkenberg saw this sight  saw this
girl crouching and weeping, and heartbroken
and desperate in consequence of having been
deceived and deserted by Jerome Wellfield,
his heart was hot within him. He went upto

her, took her hands from before her face,
and as she looked at him she saw that his
eyes were full of wrath, and his brow clouded
with angry feeling.

Sara T he said abruptly, and almost
sharply, ' you demean yourself by this
behaviour. Listen to me : answer me : You
will never cast a thought to that man again.
If he were at your feet tomorrow you would
turn away from him, for you are no patient
Griseldis. Is not this true ?'

Of course !' she exclaimed, brokenly ;
why do you ask me such questions ? Do
you wish to insult me ?'

'No. I only wanted your vvord for what
I felt to be true. Nothing  no repentance
on his part would induce you to '

I will not bear it she exclaimed, passionately.
' Let me go. You have no right
to '

Sara, I have no right to say any of these
things to you. I know it too well. Will

72

you give me the right  not to ask any more
such questions  but to protect you and stand
by you in this and every other trouble you
may have ? Will you leave Jerome Wellfield
to reap what he has sown, and let me try to
prove to you that there are men left in this
world who know how to set a woman's
happiness higher than their own convenience ?
Will you be my wife ?'

Falkenberg had once or twice tested the
extent of his influence over Sara, but he had
never pushed the experiment so far as this ;
and he felt that it was a crucial test : his
power over her trembled in the balance ;
with her final decision now it must stand or
fall. As she did not speak, but sat stilly
gazing at him, while he, stooping towards
her, held her hands, and looked intently into
her face, he went on :

You have been too absorbed to see that
it was no mere 'friendship" I felt for you.
But I tell you now, that I would wait for

you to my life's end  only, I cannot keep up
this show of indifference. Choose now,
Sara. Promise to be my wife, or dismiss
me once for all. It must be one or the
other.'

Oh, do not leave me here alone !' she
cried, involuntarily.

Then consent to what I ask. You told
me once that you had faith in me, that you
believed in me. Have you lost it all ?'

Not a jot.'

Then take my word when I tell you that
you shall not repent. Let me call you my
wife. Give me the duties of your husband ;
I ask for no privileges. I will wait  wait
twenty years, and never repent. Neither
shall you.'

But you know  you must know  I do not
love you. I am not sure that I do not love
him, even yet  may God help me !'

Yes, I can understand it all. But decide,
Sara, now  at once Once again I give you

the alternative ; It depends on you whether I
go or stay.'

This was Intimidation, and he knew It.
He used It because he had a great end
In view, and he saw no other way of gaining
It.

Speak !' he added. * Do you consent ?'

A long pause, till she answered coldly
and turning, if possible, a shade paler than
before :

'Yes.'

I thank you from my very soul,' he
answered, kissing first one and then the
other of the cold nerveless hands he held.
And now I will leave you. You would
prefer to be alone, I know. Good-night I
Remember, all I am and have are art your
service.'

She made no answer, and the deathly hue
of her face never changed or altered. She
did not reply to his good-night, nor take any
notice of him, as he went out of the room.

He found Ellen, and sent her into the room,
saying :

I think your mistress will be ill. If she is,
send for me. She will quite approve of it.'

Wondering, Ellen went Into the sitting-room,
and her heart echoed Falkenberg's
words when she saw her mistress. Ellen
had come to feel that the most utter breakdown
 fever, delirium, or raving  would be
better than this prolonged conscious suffering.
She could almost have found it in her
heart to pray for death or madness to come
and relieve her darling from this torture.

May he be paid his just wages !' she kept
wishing within herself, ' measure for measure
not a grain more or less ; and he'll have
had about as much as he can endure. I ask
no more.'

The end of that long-drawn agony came
at last, as come it must. After Falkenberg
had gone, Sara began to pace about the
room ; once or twice the consciousness of

Ellen, in her room, towards morning, heard
an abrupt pause in the measured footsteps,
and something like a long moaned out sigh.
She hastened to the other room, and found
that Sara had at last, dressed as she was,

flung herself upon her bed, and lay there
motionless.

When Ellen spoke to her she murmured
some incoherent words, but it was evident
that she did not understand what was said to
her.

The woman felt a sensation almost of relief.
At last she could take matters into her own
hands, and her first step of course was to send
for a doctor  a doctor to cure a strange
disease. Where are such physicians to be
found ? and when shall we cease our quest
after them ? She sent for Falkenberg, too,
as he had desired her to do ; and she heard
what he said to the doctor who had come out
of Sara's room, looking grave. Falkenberg
asked him what was the matter  was the
case a serious one ?

The doctor looked from Rudolf to Ellen,
and answered by another question :

 Has the young lady any relations ? If
she has, they should be sent for.'

I do not know how that may be,' replied
Falkenberg ; ' or whether she would desire
her relations to be sent for, even if she were
in extremity. But she is my promised wife,
and that being the case, I beg you will consider
me responsible in every matter that
concerns her.'

The doctor  a grave man  bowed, also
gravely, and said, that that being the case,
he might say that the lady was very
dangerously ill, and before deciding upon
any measures, he would prefer to consult
with his colleague, Dr. Merits.

So be it,' replied Falkenberg, repressing
an impatient sigh.

The note was written : the appointment
made for an hour from that time. Leaving
directions for what was necessary to be done
at once, the doctor departed.

Sir,* said Ellen, turning with some
agitation to Falkenberg, ' excuse me, but is
it true what you said to the doctor, that

my young lady had promised to marry
you ?'

Quite true. I wrung it from her last
night, by telling her that she degraded herself
by grieving for that other fellow. And if she
lives, my friend, I intend her to be my wife ;
therefore don't distress yourself on the
subject. You will keep faith, and are her
oldest friend, therefore I wish there to be
confidence between us.'

Thank you, sir. I hope indeed you may
succeed. I wish you well with all my heart, ""
she said.

35--SJ--ss- /t -ss-

The two doctors looked very grave. It
was as Ellen had dreaded  they feared for
the permanent loss of her reason, after the
long, unendurable strain, and the cruel blow
she had had. Falkenberg, without naming
names, inspired only by an intense desire for
her recovery, had judged it best to be
tolerably explicit as to facts. One of the

doctors  he named Morltz  looked down at
the unconscious face, remarking :

'Ay! She has been betrayed, and there
are natures to which betrayal Is death.'

But Miss Sara was never one to give
way said Ellen, appealingly. * She was as
strong as a man, sir, and as simple as a child,
in her mind

Then she stands so much the better
chance. From what you say I conclude she
was not a morbid subject,' he answered, ashe
went away.

Falkenberg's visits were, of course, daily.
Wilhelmi called many times. His wife and
daughter went once into the sick-room, and
came out again ; Frau Wilhelmi with all her
mother's heart showing in the pity of her
eyes, Luise crying aloud, and vowing that
she would never forget it till her dying day.
The sight of her proud and beautiful friend
tossing senselessly to and fro  of the great
orey eyes gazing with meaningless fixity at

her  of the vacant stare and smile upon the
face that had once beamed with intellect,
had shaken her careless oIrl's heart, and
given her a glimpse into depths she had
never dreamed of before.

Ac/i, mamma !' she murmured, as they
went sorrowfully away : ' I don't think
Falkenberg will ever have his wish  der
Armes

Who knows ?' answered Frau Wilhelmi.
I am glad her mother cannot see her.'

It was a desperate battle, if not a very
honos one. For more than a week life and
reason in the one balance, death or madness
in the other, oscillated with a terrible
uncertainty. But Sara Ford was not doomed
to lose either life or reason in the struggle.
Strong light,' says Goethe, ' throws strong
shadow.' And a strong, intense nature
makes a strong, obstinate struggle against all
kinds of adversities which  the subtlety of
the devil or man' may bring about. There

came an evening when the doctors, going
away, pronounced her safe  sane, living, if
with no more strength than a two weeks'
child may possess.

It was after they had departed, and while
the nurse kept watch over her patient, that
Ellen, after literally feasting her eyes upon
her 'child's' face, shrunk to a shadow of its
former beauty, went into the parlour for a
few minutes, to take a moment's rest, and to
indulge In the luxury of some thankful tears.
It was quite late, yet she was scarcely
surprised to suddenly see Herr Falkenberg,
who strode into the room, and, standing
before her, asked breathlessly :

Is it true, what I heard outside  that she
is safe ?'

It is quite true, sir, I thank God !'

Oh !' he said, biting his lips, and drawing
in his breath with a long inspiration.

The next moment he had cast himself
upon a chair beside the table, and, with his

face buried in his hands, was sobbing
aloud.

Awe-struck, Ellen stood by for a few
moments, till he looked up and demanded to
hear every particular of this recovery, this
conquest, this triumph over death, which,
though they had always professed themselves
so sure of it, came upon him at last with a
sense of joy and relief that was almost overwhelming.


I must see her as soon as she can see or
speak to anyone,' he said.  You said you
were my friend, Ellen, and you must manage
this for me. If she gets well and strong, she
will try to break off her compact, out of mistaken
consideration for me  you understand
?'

Ellen did not understand, but she had an
intense desire to know her mistress Rudolf
Falkenberg's wife, because she was convinced
he was good. She knew, from innumerable
stories, that he was rich, and, in his way, as

great a man as some great nobleman, and
therefore a suitable husband for Miss Ford,
though not at all beyond her claims. But
firstly and chiefly she wished it from a feeling,
vulgar enough, and natural enough too, to
one of her position, up-bringing, and mental
calibre  she wished it as a kind of revenge
upon Jerome Wellfield  to show him that a
man worth a hundred of him in every respect
was only too glad and eager to win the prize
which he had cast aside.

From this motive, if from no other, she
would strain every nerve to forward Fallen
cause. Therefore, when he said to her
You understand ?' she affirmed that she
understood perfectly, and so let him go.

IRREVOCABLE.

ANY days elapsed before Sara was
permitted to see anyone. Then,
one afternoon, Frau Wilhelmi was
allowed to call, and sat for a few moments
talking of the most commonplace and least
agitating topics. On the afternoon following
that, Ellen cautiously began to prepare the
way for Falkenberg. As soon as she
mentioned his name, her mistress said :

If Herr Falkenberg calls, I should like
to see him.'

This was when she was so far recovered as
to be dressed about noon, or one o'clock, and,

VOL. Il 8

half carried, half walking, to make a pilgrimage
to the couch or chaise longing in her parlour,
there to remain until the authorities Intimated
that It was time to ofo to bed aofaln.

Falkenberg did call, half an hour after
those words had passed between Ellen and
her mistress. Ellen repeated them to him,
and ushered him Into the parlour, where
Sara lay on the couch, looking Infinitely weak
and exhausted, and scarcely able to lift a
hand, or to smile faintly, when the tall, strongman
came softly up to her ; his face working,
his eyes dim.

You have been very good  unspeakably
good,' she said weakly, as he bent speechlessly
over her hand. * Ellen has told
me of your great goodness,* she added, In a
stronger voice.

There is no goodness  there has been
nothing but the pleasure I have felt In gratifying
my own wishes,' he said, in a husky,
broken voice.

It is good to see your face again, and to
hear your voice, after the Valley of the
Shadow of Death she replied, her hollow
eyes dwelling, with an expression of something
like curiosity, upon his face.

Do not let us speak of that. You are
here once more in the light of life  to work,
and hope, and make us glad again.'

She shook her head slowly.

You are far wiser than I am,' she answered,
so I will not contradict you.'

But in the meantime, you disagree with
me from beginning to end he said, regaining
his composure gradually. ' You feel that
hope and work are over for you.'

Yes, I feel as if I did not want to see the
light of the sun any more.'

Nor to talk or think about anything
again ?' he suggested, and his voice trembled ;
he trembled himself  his heart was in his
throat.

Yes, just so,' was the languid reply.

And I am here, brutally to disturb and
deny that wish of yours. I am here to give
you something to think about, and to tell you
of something I want you to do.'

And what is that ?'

When I say I want you to do it, that is a
poor, inadequate word. I pray and implore
you to keep your promise to me, and as soon
as may be  tomorrow, or the day after  to
become my wife. I have arranged all the
preliminaries. In consequence of your
serious illness, the usual notice has been dispensed
with. I have nothing to do but
intimate to the Biirgermeister the day and
the hour for the ceremony, and he, or his
representative, will come here to perform it.'

But  but  surely you have reconsidered
it ?' she said, flushing painfully.

 I have considered it again and again, with
the same result always. Mr. Wellfield's
marriage is in the Times this morning, to
Miss Bolton of Wellfield Abbey.'

Sara winced, and he went on :

'The Wilhelm know. The Professor
and the Frau Professor have promised to
act as witnesses.'

You have told them?' she ejaculated.

Yes  because I know that pott are not a
person to go back from your word,' he
answered steadily, and he knew that he had
conquered  whether because she was weak
and feeble, and he strong and determined, or
from what cause soever  he knew the game
was his when she said, slowly :

You know what people will say of me 
that I tried very hard for you, and married
you for your money, and so on.'

Herriot ! yes. I know the whole of the
jargon they will gabble amongst themselves.
Let them, if they like.'

She looked utterly weary, exhausted and
worn out. When she spoke her voice was
scarce audible. He had to lean towards her
to catch the faltering words :

If I do  will you  settle everything 
no questions  no thinking ? / cannot
think!

You shall hear no more about it until the
Biirgermeister comes to marry us. A few-words
then, and the signing of your name,
and all will be over.'

Very well. Arrange it all as you wish,
and I will do it,' said she, and turned her
head away, and shut her eyes, as if too tired
ever to open them again.

You shall not repent it. I promise that
you shall not repent it,' he said, carrying her
passive hand to his lips.

Then he left the room. Outside he saw
Mrs. Nelson, and took her aside into Sara's
atelier.

 We shall be married tomorrow, Ellen he
observed.

Thank God, sir ! I believe it will be the
saving of my mistress.' She paused, and
added : ' I hope you don't think of separating

US, sir  Miss Ford and me. It would be
sorely distressing to us both.'

Never, while you both live, believe me.
I shall have to leave her in your hands for a
long time to come yet.'

With that he hastened away, leaving Ellen
in a more contented frame of mind than she
had enjoyed for a long time.

It was afternoon of the following day.
Sara was much in the same state  no stronger,
no weaker. She saw, with something like
apathy, how Wilhelmi, his wife, and Luise
came into her room together, spoke to her,
and seated themselves side by side.

She had a faint remembrance that Rudolf
had said something about witnesses ; she was
not quite sure what it all meant, but no doubt
it was right. Falkenberg was there too,
seated beside her, and, in an unconscious
appeal to his protecting power, she had
moved her hand into his, and then lay back

in her chair, silent and indifferent. He said
something to her, an explanation, it seemed,
of the circumstances ; something about 

In cases like this, Sara, they dispense with
the usual notice so there has been no difficulty
about getting it done at once.'

She looked rather blankly at him, and in
her own mind wondered vaguely what it
meant.

Then some strangers entered  the Burger-mester
and his clerk. Words were read.
Something was brought to her to sign, which
deed, with Rudolfss assistance, she accomplished.
Questions were asked as to her age,
her name, parentage, and occupation. At
each of these she looked helplessly at Fallen
or at Ellen, who stood at the other side
of her couch. Then more reading ; then a
wedding-ring was put upon her finger, and
would have rolled off again had not Rudolf
caught her hand and held it fast in his.

Then the Btlrgermeister and his clerk took

their hats, murmured severally, ' E77tpfehle
mich ziL gnadeii' bowed to the assembled
company, and were gone.

Frau Wilhelmi and Luise came up and
kissed her tenderly, and she saw that their
eyes were full of tears. Then the Professor
came up and took her hand  the good Wilhelmii
 and she remembered his generous
kindness to her, and smiled what was intended
for a grateful smile at him, whereat
his eyes too filled with tears, and he too
stooped, and kissed her forehead, and said
something incoherent about Lgeliebtes Kiiidy a
teste Schiller.

Then they were all gone, and she was left
alone with Ellen and Rudolf. And then
Ellen left the room too, while he still sat
beside her holding her hand, till at last a
little pressure from her fingers caused him
to turn and look at her.

She saw that his eyes were moist, and she
paused as she beheld the expression upon his

face  the love that transfigured it. At last
she asked :

Are we married now ?'

Yes, we are married

I am afraid I have done you a great wrong
in consenting.'

Are you ? It is rather early to begin with
such forebodings. What makes you think
so?'

I feel as if I should never be worth anything
again, and that if I were I should not
make you happy.'

My child, it was not happiness I wanted,
but you, glad or sorry, * loving or loth." Rest
content. I shall never repent.'

Promise me that.'

I promise it fully and freely.'

Then I am more satisfied.'

That is all I ask of you.'

They became silent, and he still sat beside
her, her hand locked in his ; and as the short
December afternoon closed in, she shut her

eyes, worn out even with this quiet excitement,
and he could not tell whether she slept
or not. In the quiet room there was utter
peace and stillness a wasted, pallid-looking
woman, with eyes wearily closed, and breathing
so lightly her bosom scarce seemed to
move ; a man watching beside her, whose
strong, calm face never lost its expression of
assured contentment, and whose eyes were
full of peace : surely no very remarkable
scene. But the whole of the gossip-loving
town of Elberthal was ringing with the names
of that man and that woman.

It happened to be Frau Wilhelmi's reception
night, and great was the disappointment
felt because neither she, nor her husband, nor
her daughter would enlarge upon the subject
of the marriage they had witnessed that afternoon
 would say nothing more than that if
Miss Ford recovered, they were sure it would
be an excellent thing.

Max Helmuth found his Luise very subdued,

and very tender. No sarcasm and no
coquetries greeted him that night. When he
asked her why she was so quiet, tears filled
her eyes, and she answered :

Ah, if you knew, Schatz ! I cannot think
of anything but this afternoon. It was like a
beautiful legend. Do you know that little
picture of papa's, which he shows to very fever
people, and then he generally tells them it is
a head of St. Ignatius Loyola ?'

I know it  yes.'

Yes. But to me he always calls it " The
Human Face Divine,' and so it is. Falkenberg
had just the same look this morning, in his
eyes, and on his mouth. When I think of
that, and then hear these wretches gossiping
about it, it makes me feel  I don't know
how. I know I will never talk gossip again,
Max.'

Till the next time, Lichen ! But I hope
Miss Ford will recover, and make him happy,
as he deserves to be.'

DOUBTS.

I pray you, is death or birth
The thing that men call so weary ?'

1 H E days of her convalescence passed
to Sara like a long, vague dream.
Slowly, very slowly, she recovered
strength  as if some inner instinct made her
unwilling to return to her place amongst that
common humanity which had lately dealt her
so bitter a blow. December was waning 
Christmas was close at hand  before she had
gained sufficient strength to walk from one
room to the other. That feat was first
accomplished with the assistance of Rudolfss

arm. Then she was able to do It alone. It
was after this that she gained strength daily,
and with physical strength also returned
mental strength. She had drifted on, seeing
no visitors save one, and even that one, Rudolf,
had been absent for some days, on the plea
of business. He had left no word as to
when he should return, or what his plans
were.

It was the 22nd of December. Falkenberg
had been absent for five days, and it was now
that doubts and fears began to distress Sara's
soul. For the last few days she had been
reflecting, deeply and uneasily, as Ellen saw,
watching the face she loved. She dreaded
the result of those meditations. Falkenberg s
cause was her cause, and she wished he
would return. But this afternoon she had a
duty to perform, and, seeing Sara sitting lost
in thought, and that thought apparently of
no pleasant nature, she said :

'You look a deal better, ma'am, this

afternoon. Do you think you would be equal
to looking at the letters that have come for
you while you were ill ?'

 Letters I Are there any letters for me ?'
she demanded eagerly, her whole aspect
changing. ' Bring them at once. . Why did
you not tell me before ?'

The doctor said you had better not have
them, and Herr Falkenberg said I was on no
account to give you them till you were
stronger said Ellen, unlocking a drawer, and
taylor them out. Her back was turned to
Sara, or she might have seen the sudden start
of the latter at this decided mention of Fallen
name, and this close connection of him
and his orders with her and her affairs. Her
colour changed, and she bit her lip. But she
did not speak as Ellen put the letters into
her hand. Her cheek flushed as she turned
them over. There was one with the postmark
Nassau upon it, and a countess's coronet
on the flap. That was from Frau von

Trockenau. And there was one directed in
A vice Wellfield's hand. Her face changed
as she looked at them, and observed the dates
on the postmark. They had both been
written lately  the countess's since her marriage,
for it was addressed  Sara turned hot
and cold and trembled as she saw the superscription
 to Frau Rudolf Falkenberg. She
opened this letter first, and read it :

Dearest Sara,

How can I describe the feelings
with which I have heard of the strange things
that have have happened to you  of your
illness (thank God that you are now
restored to us !)  and of your marriage to
Rudolf Falkenberg ? I knew he loved you.
I flatter myself that I was the very first to
discover how suitable and delightful such a
marriage would be. I can only offer to both
of you my most hearty, unmixed congratulations.
Ja, ici gratulire von jansen Herzeii



7Lnd mein Mann milch. I think, if ever there
was a noble, generous, good fellow, it is the
man you have married. I should say he was
perfect if I were speaking to an ordinary
person, but I know you agree with me that
perfect people must be so very horrid, and it
always sounds to me more of an insult than
anything else to call a person perfect. But it
is a perfect arrangement all the same. How
seldom, dear Sara, do we find the ways of
Providence exemplified thus clearly and
simply  everything working together for
good in so palpable a manner that he who
runs may read.' [The countess's moral rejections
had been wont, in former days, to
excite Sara's intense amusement. Even now,
in the tumult of her feelings, she could not
help smiling at this specimen of them.] ' It
does my heart good  it does indeed. I feel
as happy as I did myself when I had just been
married to Fritz. Write, or get your husband
to write, as soon as possible, to tell me how

VOL. III. 9

soon you will come to see us, and what your
movements ar
see you both !

movements are going to be. How I long to

Yours,

Carla von Trockenau.'

Sara drew a long breath as she finished
reading this effusion, and the colour rushed
over her cheeks and brow and throat. Now,
for the first time, she began to realise what
the step meant that she had taken.

In vain she tried to reassure herself by recalling
Rudolfss promise that she should not
repent, and that he would never repent. She
could not be calm ; she could not view the
matter Indifferently. She could not rid herself
of the idea that she had hurried and hastened
to take an irrevocable step ; that in her
agony of outraged pride and love repulsed,
she had promised, and in her after state of
helpless weakness and weary indifference she
had done that which might mar a good man's

life, and make her own even more miserable
than she had expected it would be.

What was she to do ? How to meet him ?
When he came she must brace herself to the
task of coming to some explanation, and she
shrank in anticipation from what must be so
intensely painful an interview.

Thus meditating, her eye fell upon Avice's
letter. At first she could only look at it, she
could not open it. With the sight of that
familiar handwriting there came rushing over
her mind a vivid recollection of all the past
sweetness and bitterness connected with
Avice and those belonging to her. There
came the recollection of Jerome  a memory
which had slumbered since her illness, and
which she had never allowed to awaken.
Now it sprang forth again, irresistible, strong,
and overpowering. Again she felt his influence,
recalled to mind the love she had
borne him, the  what was this feeling she
experienced even now ? Surely she did not

92

love him yet ? ' No !' cried every voice
swithin her. And yet, beyond them all, was a
whisper, more potent than any of them, asking
what it was that she felt, demanding to
know the meaning of this eager longing, this
SehnsMcht, this yearning.

I am sure I have done wrong. I have
made a horrible mistake T she repeated to
herself. ' What am I to do ? How shall I
repair it ?'

With an effort she opened Avice's letter,
and read it with a throbbing heart The girl
gave a full account of her arrival at home,
and of all that had happened since. She
implored Sara to remember that she had
known nothing of all that was going on, and
not to punish her for Jerome's sin. She
related how the marriage was over, how
Jerome and Nata were away, and she was at
the Abbey with Mr. Bolton and Miss
Shuttleworth as her companions ; how Mr.
Elton was going to live at Monk's Gate,

when they came home,' but that she, Avice,
was to Hve at the Abbey with ' them.'

With beating heart Sara read Avice's description
of Nata, and understood at once that
it must have been Wellfield throughout, who
had played a double game, and had deceived
both the woman he loved, and the woman
whom he had married.

This was no case of a vulgar heiress who
was anxious to ally herself with a man of old
name ; it was the case of a very simple-hearted
loving girl, who had lost her heart
irrevocably, and Who would evidently suffer
as intensely in her way, if not so passionately,
as Sara Ford herself had suffered, if ever she
knew the truth.

Avice betrayed again and again her liking
for her new surroundings  a liking which she
uneasily felt that she could not gratify without
some disloyalty to her friend. As for Jerome
such had been the revulsion of feeling
caused by his conduct, that Avice could not

write of him without a certain tinge of bitter'
sarcasm cropping up through her words : and
more than once occurred a kind of apology
for even mentioning his name in a letter to
Sara.

Tell me what to do she concluded.
You have been my guide for so long ; I
trust you so implicitly that I feel lost without
you. Send me one word, Sara, for whatever
you say or do must be right.'

Poor child !' thought her friend, sorrowfully.
' This must be answered at once. I
must set her mind at rest. And, I suppose,
when I tell her what / have done, she will
change her opinion as to all I do and say
being right. Perhaps it is as well that her
illusion should come to an end betimes.'

She determined to make her first essay in
letter-writing since her illness, and began by
writing that afternoon to Avice and to Frau
von Trockenau. To Avice she wrote explaining
why she had not been able to

answer her letter earlier. Then she told her
of her marriage, calmly, and in a matter-of
fact way, with the remark that she could not
enter into her reasons for the course she had
taken, and that A vice would probably not
understand them if she did. Of Jerome she
made not the slightest mention, but she
urged Avice to do all in her power to love
and be kind to her sister-in-law. * From
what you tell me, I am sure she is good. In
being her friend, and doing all you can to
make her happy, you will grow happier
yourself. It is the only thing you can do 
the only right thing, that is.'

She felt that she had at least been right in
urging this upon Avice ; and then she wrote
a brief note to Countess Carla, thanking her
for her good wishes, and adding that she
knew absolutely nothing of any plans for the
future  she left everything to Herr Fallen
; she excused the brevity of her letter
on the plea of illness, and fastened it up.

She had expected to be exhausted by this
exertion, but found to her surprise and
pleasure that she was less tired than before.
Ellen had lighted the lamp, and the room
was warm and cheerful. Sara began slowly
to pace up and down the room, her thoughts
running intently on the letters she had
received, and the ideas they had conjured
up. Her long, plain dress hung loosely
upon the once ample and majestic figure,
now wasted to a shadow of its former
beauty.

The loose train of her amber-dropping hair '

was gathered up into a knot upon her neck ;
there was a faint glow  the harbinger of returning
health  upon her wasted cheek.
While she thus slowly promenaded to and
fro some one knocked at the door.

Herein f she answered, turning to see
who it was, and confronting Rudolf Fallen


She stood suddenly still, colouring highly.

You did not expect me,' he said, pausing,
with the door-handle In his hand. * Perhaps
I intrude !'

There was a look of disappointment In his
eyes, which she saw, and made a hasty step
forward.

Indeed you do not. Only this afternoon
I was wishing that I could see you, for I have
many things to ask you. Please come in,' she
added, holding out her hand.

Rudolf took it, and looked at her.

You are better he said. ' You have been
writing. I hope you have not been doing too
much ?'

'No, I assure you I have not. I feel
better for it. If you will let me take your
arm, I think I could walk about a little
longer.'

He gave her his arm, and they paced
about for a short time, slowly and in
silence.

I have much to say to you, Herr  I mean
Rudolf,' she began.

 Have you ? I also have something to say
to you. Well ?'

To-day Ellen gave me my letters. I had
not had them before.'

And you have answered them at once ?'
he said, smiling. ' I like a prompt correspondent.
This augurs well for the future,
Sara.'

I  I wish you to read them,' she said,
with a heightened colour. * Read this of
Avice Wellfield's first.'

She gave it to him, and he read it ; then
said :

Poor little girl ! she is in great distress. Is
it allowable to ask what you replied, and
whether you intend to keep up the correspondence
?'

 Not if you object in the least said Sara,
hastily.

I . No. I would not Insult you with such

an objection if you wrote to and heard from
her twice a day,' he replied, with a rather
proud smile.

Thank you. And now this from Countess
Carla. It has disturbed me very much.'

He read that too, and his countenance also
changed.

This disturbed you  why ?' he asked.

Sara withdrew her hand from his arm, and
sat down.

I ought to speak about something,' she
faltered;  about the future. Everyone  all
the world knows that I am married to you.
I cannot go on living here just as if nothing
had happened, and yet '

'What business had you to be thinking
about things ?' he asked, with a half smile.
Part of the bargain was that I was to do the
thinking, as you must remember. You cannot
surely suppose that I have let all this time
elapse without thinking upon the subject as
well ?'

Oh ! If you would decide, and tell me
what Is best, I would so gladly do it !' she
exclaimed.

I have decided everything. The plan Is
ready, and only waits your approval to be
carried out.'

And what is it ? If I could only get away
from here !'

You remember Lahnburg, and my house
there ?'

Where we spent the day when I was at
Nassau ? Mein Genilgen  oh yes, I remember
It.'

You are so much stronger than I had
dared to hope or expect, that I think you
could bear the journey there at any time
almost, if I have a special carriage for you,
and take care that you don't get cold. Christmas
will be here, you see, directly. Tomorrow
Is the last day before the festivities
begin.'

Yes. And people will come and want to

see me, and I shall not be able to refuse some
of them ; and yet it would almost kill me, I
think.'

'Of course it would. Well, Lahnburg is a
quiet, out-of-the-way place enough. If I took
you there tomorrow, and settled you therewith
Ellen, you would avoid all the bustle
here. It is a beautiful place. You don't care
to go out, and are not fit for it if you did. I
don't think you will find it duller than this,
and certainly less painful ; for you will not be
under the constraint of feeling that you are
known and observed. What do you think ?'

I should like that,' said Sara, slowly ; and
then, after a long pause, she asked in a low
voice :

'And you V

1/ replied Falkenberg, with an assumption
of indifference, *oh, I never live in the
country in winter. I detest it. Frankfort
must be my Hatcptquariier, My manager is
loading me with reproaches for my neglect of

money-matters, and I feel there is justice in
his complaints, I shall be very much engaged
for at least a couple of months to come. I
may find time to run over to Lahnburg and
see you, once or twice ; but you must not
expect me to be very attentive. You know,'
he concluded, smiling, and glancing at her
again, 'six weeks  or, rather, two months
ago, I did not suppose I should be married
to you, and I made all sorts of engagements,
public as well as private  the former at least
must be kept. Well, what do you say to my
plan ?'

'What do I say ?' she repeated, in a voice
full of emotion ; ' I say that you are too
generous, Rudolf, too chivalrous. Believe
me, if I had not so lately gone through what
I have done, I would offer you more than
words of gratitude  I would lay my very
life at your feet.'

Don't agitate yourself; that is forbidden,'
he replied, trying to smile with cheerful

indifference. Perhaps a ray of hope had
Inspired him  some faint idea that she might
say, ' Are not you also coming to Meiii
Genilgen?' If that had been the case, he
promptly repressed the feeling, and added :

All I ask of you is to get well, and try to
be contented, in yoicr own way. Do not think
of me. Perhaps that may come in the future.
Nay, do not cry, Sara. I cannot bear to see
that:

Do not scold me. I almost think I
begin to see my way now. They say that
much is granted to those who watch and
pray.'

She spoke the last words half to herself.

That is true, in a sense, if not literally,' he
replied. ' Well, I will see after a carriage to
take you by the noon train tomorrow to
Lahnburg ; so tell Ellen to have everything
ready. Now I must go. I will take your
letters, if they are ready.'

Sara wished he would not go at that

moment, but something prevented her from
speaking out her wish, and he departed.

I must be in some wonderful dream,' she
repeated to herself, when she was alone. ' It
is too wildly impossible to be true. And yet,
how well I know that he has been here. He
never comes without bringing with him a
purer, rarer atmosphere. He looks at things,
and tells you how he sees them, and they are
never quite the same afterwards. Now with
Jerome  Hyperion to ' She paused abruptly,
biting her lip, and thinking, ' After all,
I never saw which was Hyperion. I have no
right to sneer. Shall I ever love him ?
Surely, at any rate, the remembrance of that
other love will wear off enough for me to be
able to say to my husband, *' Come, let us
travel hand in hand at last!" Heaven send
it, at least !'

MEIN GENUGEN.

'There is the outside visible progress  the progress
which may be seen striding perceptibly onwards, superficial
generally, noisy, clamorous  likest to some wild
pea, some quickly-growing parasite, blowing brilliantly,
and fading rapidly ; there is the inward, invisible progress
too  the deep, unseen stream : the plant that grows in
darkness, most nourished when all around seems least
propitious : it becomes visible in the end  one perfect
bloom  beauty crowning beauty  Clothe springs from the
sunflower at last, answering the summons of the god.'

,H E journey to Lahnburg was accomplished
in safety. Just before
Christmas Eve, with its guests
and its letters, its noise and its bustle,
arrived, Sara found herself in her new
home.

VOL. III. lO

Lahnburg is always a secluded, retired spot
somewhat in the style of * the world forgetting,
by the world forgot ;' and now, in the depth
of winter, when tourists had fled, and winds
were bleak, it was more silent and quiet than
ever. It suited Sara that it should be so  -
suited all her ideas and wishes.

Yet it was with strange feelings that she
found herself again here, on a bleak, sad
December afternoon. There was no snow,
but the temperature had been falling all day ;
a bitter east wind was blowing ; a sullen,
leaden sky, against which the body of the
cathedral and the rugged shape of the old
Heidenthurm showed out black and mournful.
The hills looked dark and sad ; the aspect of
the whole fair land was changed.

It was about four o'clock in the afternoon
when they arrived. Sara, very weary, stayed
in her room to rest. When at last she came
downstairs, she found the salon empty.
There was a large glowing fire in the English

open grate ; the lamp was turned down ; the
dancing blazes flickered upon all the objects
in the quaint old room, and the first thing
that caught Sara's eye was a panel on that old
painted spinet on which Falkenberg had been
leaning when they were all laughing at the
mistake she had made in crediting him with
being possessed of a wife and children.

Where is Herr Falkenberg ?' she hastily
asked of Ellen, who came in just then.

He's gone, ma'am. He told me not to
disturb you, but to tell you when you came
down that he had an engagement at Frankfort
to-night, and he didn't know when he
would be able to come over here again, but
he would write.'

Sara was silent ; her mind filled with
various emotions. It was very good of him
what wonderful tact and delicacy he had I
and yet, she wished he had left a note behind.
She wished he had not been so afraid
of disturbing her. He might have given her

10  2

the chance of thanking him for his goodness,
and all this provision of luxury and thoughtful
care for her comfort and convenience.
But no ! It was doubtless best left as it
was. After all, if she had seen him, what
could she have said ? So she decided in her
own mind, and ten minutes afterwards was
wondering how soon he would write, and
what he would say when he did so.

? "ver-55: 'k 5J'

From this day her life went on in an even
monotonous tenor. In her home, and around
it, was everything that heart could desire in
the way of beauty, of rare and costly things.
The winter proved to be a hard one, and the
old town of Lahnburg lay for months under a
mantle of frost and snow. The air was cold,
clear and keen ; the hills around were white ;
the river flowed black through a plain of spotless
white ; the skies overhead were generally
of a deep scintillating crystal blue. All
the beauty that winter ever has or can have,

lay aroused her, and she could enjoy it by
going out into her own garden and grounds.

She did not grow happy in the place, nor
contented in it, but she grew used to it, and
unwilling to move away from it. She grew
almost unconsciously to love the deep and
profound retirement of it  it was so quiet, so
undisturbed, that sometimes she caught herself
thinking of * After life's fitful fever,' and
then, with a half-smile, remembering that that
applied to death, not life.

Very few persons knew of her being there,
save her old friend Countess Carla, who had
made a pilgrimage from Nassau, and burst
upon her one day unexpectedly, and fortunately
alone. She came full of wishes of
joy, and of eager congratulations.

Sara  how she hardly knew, but by a few
words far from explicit  managed to convey
to the lively little lady something like the true
state of the case. The countess was appalled,
her face fell, she could hardly speak. At last :

Sara, there was some one else, you mean.'

Sara assented.

Was it  do forgive me  but was it Mr.
Wellfield ?'

Yes,' replied Sara, with a voice and a face
like stone.

jDi mein Simnel I And  was it from
pique that you married Falkenberg ?'

It was something like that  and because
he made me do it,' said Sara, the anguish
she felt breaking uncontrollably forth in her
trembling voice. ' Don't let us speak of it.
Perhaps it may sometime come right. But
meantime, my dear Carla, don't tell everyone
as if it were the most joyful news imaginable.'


What must you have thought when you
got my letter ?' exclaimed the countess.

The little lady looked thoughtful, but
parted from Sara with a tender embrace, and
asked if she might come again, ' quite alone.'

Oh, if you would !' cried Sara. ' It would

be so kind, and  and I know Rudolf would
approve of it.'

Yes, I have little doubt on that point. I
believe I may safely say that he has a high
opinion of me,' replied Countess Carla, darting
a keen side-glance from under her
drooped eyelids at her friend, while she
appeared absorbed in fastening her glove.

Indeed he has !' echoed Sara, fervently.

Well, we shall be at Trockenau for some
little time now, and I will drop you a line to
say when I am coming again.'

They parted. Frau von Trockenau shook
her head several times as she waited with
her servant at the Lahnburg station, for the
train to Ems.

What a complication !' she thought. * But
I am not hopeless. Does she imagine I did
not see how she blushed when she informed
me that " Rudolf" would approve ?'

Such an odd sound issued at this moment
from the lips of the countess that her old

man-servant, saluting, advanced a step and
said :

Ztt Befell, gnddige F7au'

It s nothing, Fritz. I was only laughing
at something I was thinking of

Frau von Trockenau was the only one of
her former friends whom Sara saw in this
manner. Of course, in so small a place as
Lahnburg, it was soon known that Herr
Falkenberg was married, and that his wife
was living at present at the old schloss. No
doubt there was speculation on the subject,
but, if so, it never reached Sara's ears.

She never entered the town, but, as she
grew stronger, would take rambles alone, or
with Ellen, along the high upland roads
which branched off in all directions, at a
short distance beyond Mem GejiUgeii, and
which led by all manner of ways into the interior,
across the moors, or through woods
and thickets, or between hedges or straight
and poplar-planted, beside the river.

On such excursions they seldom met any
but country people and peasants ; rough but
civil folk, who were not curious, but who
always exchanged greetings  giving her a
nod and a ' Grilss Pitch Gottt, gnddige Frail
and receiving in exchange a * Glen Tag, ili
dance' from her.

As for Ellen Nelson, her mental attitude
was one of some uncertainty. There was a
mingling of satisfaction and dissatisfaction.
She rejoiced in the changed position of her
mistress, in the luxury and lavish plenty of
all their surroundings ; she considered that
now her beloved child had just what she was
entitled to and no more, but she mourned
over the incompleteness of a fate which, in
the midst of all this outward prosperity, withheld
the inward peace which alone could
make it enjoyable. Why could not her
mistress be herself aoain ? She liked Avice
Wellfield well, but she disliked the letters
which so frequently came from her ; the long.

thick letters which Sara read with such
avidity, and which had the effect of giving
brightness to her eye, a flush to her cheek,
new animation to her whole aspect for many
hours after she had received them. Often,
after such a letter had come, Ellen would
see her lady's lips move as they walked
together  would see her eyes suddenly flash,
or her cheek flush, and all this she disliked ;
nor did she take any more delight in seeing
the letters which Sara always made her post
with her own hand, directed to Miss Well-field.
Ellen wished that any distraction
might come, in the shape of society, friends,
anything, to divert her mistress's thoughts
from that topic.

She'll never come to think as she ought
of Herr Falkenberg,' the old servant decided
within herself, ' while she can sit here alone
and brood over the past, and have long
letters from Miss Wellfield. If she would
only take to her painting again, or anything.'

For Sara did not again begin to take to
her painting. Of course, for some time the
winter weather formed an excuse. It was much
too intensely cold to go out taking sketches
or painting landscapes. She had once made
an attempt, and tried to catch the effect of a
crimson and daffodil sunset behind some
naked trees, which sunset she could see from
sone of the side-windows of the salon. But
she had not even finished it. There was no
life and no pleasure in it.

Ellen fretted, and wished she would begin,
little knowing in her ignorance that her lady
would have given all she was worth if she
could have begun again ; that she had begun
to wonder despairingly if all that artistic
power in which she had once rejoiced, and
concerning which she had been so ambitious,
were quenched and gone. It seemed as if
those powers had received some paralysing
blow. It was in vain that she attempted to
resume her art, seeking, with a natural,

healthy impulse after some occupation which
should divert her mind from the things it incessantly
dwelt upon. Ellen did not know
how, when one attempt after another had
failed ; when she had tried, and no charm
no interest dawned, nothing but dull, dead,
mechanical strokes, without meaning or inspiration,
she had thrown down her palette, and
wept scalding tears of grief and mortification
wondering bitterly if it were always to be
thus. She read some words one day which
sent a chill to her heart  what if they were
prophetic ?

Dark the shrine, and dumb the fount of song thence
welling,
Save for words more sad than tears of blood, which
said :
Tell the Kz?ig, on earth has fallen the glorious, dwellings
And the water springs which spake, are quenched and
dead.
Not a cell is left the god, no roof, no cover.
In his hand the prophet-land el flowers no more J

Thus the winter slowly passed away, and

she grew more and more despondent, thinking
miserably that she was failing in every way :
unable to paint, convinced that she felt no
return of the generous love which had taken
her by the hand when she was verily ' friendless
and an outcast ;' conscious, with a feeling
of guilty shame, that the chief interest of her
life lay in those letters from Avice Wellfield,
in which the girl poured out the whole history
of her everyday life  all her hopes and
fears, and her impressions of those around
her  lamenting that there was one person,
and one only, who seemed to be, as she said,
above suspicion of being either morbid, or
unhappy, or an impostor, or a victim,* and
that one John Leyburn, over whose deficiencies
of manner the fastidious young lady made
constant moan.

Rudolf, during the whole winter, came very
seldom, and stayed for a very short time 
never longer than a couple of hours. Each
time that she saw him, Sara felt more constrained,

more guilty, knew less what to say
or how to look, while his composure remained
as imperturbable as ever.

And thus, after what had seemed an almost
endless winter, spring appeared.

CHAPTER VI.

Eine Rise IN S Blue.

gjTHT was May, and the whole land
7 Pm smiled under the consciousness of
2 thraldom removed  of winter
finally passed away. The old house was
beautiful in the sunshine ; its grey walls set
in a frame of trees, all bursting into the first
exquisite spring foliage  of hyacinths and
primroses, late daffodils and early wallflowers,
all noddlnof their heads in the borders and on
the flower-beds, and singing, most plainly to
be heard by those who understand their
language 

Der Lenz list recommended
Winter list aus !'

Sara, after breakfast this sunshiny morning,
threw a shawl around her shoulders, and
went out into the garden to read a letter. As
she paced about the sheltered, sunny south
terrace, it was plain to see that she was at
least restored to bodily health. There was
almost all the splendid beauty of former days,
yet somewhat paler and more refined. But
the face was perceptibly changed. It was an
older, sadder face  grander, but, as it looked
now, far more sorrowful ; for there was not
the inner contentment which gives the outward
expression of peace. The eyes, which
now and then were raised to survey the
smiling spring landscape, were not filled with
a deep, secure content. They were troubled,
clouded, dissatisfied.

But presently she became absorbed in her
letter. We may look over her shoulder and

read. It was one of those English letters,
whose advent Ellen did not love.

My dear Sara,

At last the day comes round on which
I may write to you. No doubt you were
perfectly right to say I must not write oftener
than once a fortnight, and I am sure, by doing
so, you saved yourself from being fearfully
bored ; but it makes me wild with impatience
sometimes. It is such a comfort to feel as if
I were almost speaking to you  to feel that
in a few days you will be holding this that I
have written in your hand, and that for a
time at least you will be obliged to think of
me.

Since I wrote, something very sad has
happened. Poor Mr. Bolton is dead. He
died last week, very suddenly, of heart disease.
You may imagine that it has been a fearful
blow to poor Nata, unhappy as she is already.
Even Jerome felt it, I think, or believed he

VOL. III. I I

did. Mr. Bolton has always been so good to
him, and I defy anyone not to have respected
him. It made me very sad, too. I had got
so fond of him. Some of my happiest hours
were spent with him at Monk's Gate, helping
him with his Italian. He did so want to
finish his translation of the ' Inferno," and
have it published. Nata liked me to go there.
Jerome always wanted her to stay in in the
evening, and I think she did not want her
father to see how sad she looked sometimes.
She is goodness itself, but oh ! so altered, so
subdued, and so sad ! I am sure she knows
by some means  though how, I can't imagine
how dreadfully Jerome had deceived her
all the time she thought he loved her. At
least, I know that now she knows he does not
love her as she loves him, and as he tight to
love her. I know I am a fool sometimes. I
say such fearfully indiscreet things every now
and then. The other day, when Nata told me
that she hoped she would have her baby before

next winter, I exclaimed, '' Oh, Nata,
how glad I am ! That will make it all right."
She looked at me so strangely for a few
minutes, and then burst into tears, and said,
' Who knows ? who knows? It is as God
shall dispose it." I am glad she can think so.
To me it seems very strangely disposed, but
then, as you know, I never could say, " Thank
God !" for the things that make everyone unhappy
all round, and I don't believe they are
providential at all. I believe they happen
because people are wicked and selfish. But
Nata is very good, though she never talks
about it. I know she thinks people don't
have troubles without deserving them, and
she is under the impression that she must in
some way deserve her troubles, though even
she cannot say how.

But I was telling you about Mr. Bolton's
death. Everything seems very strange
without him. Do you know, only the day
before he died he gave me a lovely pearl

1 1  2

ring, which he said was to be in remembrance
of my kindness to him ! How I did cry when
I thought of it. And poor Mr, Leyburn,
who, I am sure, never will learn when to
speak, and when to be silent, said that I
ought to be glad, and not sorry, to know that
I had been of any comfort to him. Now, did
he expect me to burst into a fit of delighted
laughter ? But of course he means well.

*Mr. Bolton's death has made Nata, and I
suppose Jerome too, very rich, of course ;
though I don't understand anything about the
circumstances of it.

We are not so quiet here as I should have
thought we should be. All the people round
ask us out. Just before Mr. Bolton's death,
Jerome and I dined at Mrs. Latheby's. Nata,
of course, was invited too, but she will not go
out at present, and she would not let us stay
at homes we went. There was Mrs.
Latheby, and her niece, Miss Pauline Bagot 
a Roman Catholic heiress, who Is Intended to

marry young Latheby. He was there too,
with Father Somerville, who had come with
him from Brentwood Jerome and myself.
We were the only heretics. Jerome sang,
and I played, and young Mr. Latheby
applauded wildly. Then Miss Bagot played,
which she does exceedingly well. Mr.
Somerville, as usual, made himself very
agreeable. He really is one of the most
delightful people I ever knew. I know you
don't like him, but I call him charming.
Both he and Mrs. Latheby are very polite tous.
Mr. Somerville comes a great deal to
the Abbey.

Nata is like you  she dislikes him. At
first when he came she used to sit with him
and Jerome, and so did I ; but she felt so uncomfortable,
she said, that now we always
leave them in the library, and we go and sit
in the drawing-room. Very often Mr.
Leyburn is there too, for he does not like
Father Somerville either, and has not the

good manners even to pretend to do so,
which annoys me very much. Sometimes
Mr. Bolton used to come, and then I used to
read to him about the savage tribes of South
America. We were reading the " Naturalist's
Voyage Round the World," which Mr.
Leyburn brought for us, about the only thing
in which his taste is unimpeachable. Of
course he listened with respect to that, but
all the other books he calls " travellers' tales."
He professes to go in for natural history
himself, or to be, as he calls it, "a bit of a
naturalist," and he was always interrupting
our reading, finding fault with the botany, or
the zoology, or the something ology of the
writers, which is a most exasperating habit.
It is so annoying, just as you are reading a
thrilling account of something, to be suddenly
interrupted, " Incorrect ! Where did
the fellow get his facts ? Not from accurate
personal observation. Til wager."

Miss Shuttleworth is just as amusing as

ever, but I don't think she has done anything
very remarkable since I last wrote.

Jerome still goes to business every day,
though I know Nata wants him to give it up.
I wonder that Nata never reproaches him !
But then he looks almost as miserable as she
does. It is a depressing household, dear
Sara, though I have nothing to complain of.
They let me do anything I like, and I
believe I might even come and see you if I
chose. But I have learnt a great many
things from the troubles I have seen since I
came here, and amongst others I have learnt
that I am of some comfort to Nata, therefore
I will not leave her.

I must conclude. You will be tired of all
this. Do not be long in writing to me, if it
is only two sides of a sheet of paper.

Ever your grateful

Sara still walked to and fro, but in profound

and painful reverie. Her very soul
pitied her unhappy Httle successful rival.
She felt as If she would have liked nothing
better than to take Nata to her bosom and
soothe and comfort her, so intensely she felt
for the girl in her pain and desolation.
Could she by a word, even by some sacrifice
on her own part, have given Nata her husband's
love, and wiped from her mind all
knowledge of his past transgressions, how
gladly she would have done it ! for Sara, In
her solitude at Mein Genilgen, had scaled
higher moral summits than she herself knew
she thought she had not completely castaway
the old love, or the effects of it  she
did not realise that the substance of it had
been burnt away ; what remained was a
shadow, a heap of ashes, retaining the shape
of that which was In reality consumed. It
was well that she saw the evil which remained,
and not the good which was accomplished,
else had she been In danger of securing

to that ' palsy of self-satisfaction *
which has a trick of seizing upon and blighting
the finest natures.

But she knew that no word of hers could
give to Nata Wellfield her husband's love.
She felt, she had gathered from a hundred
unconscious little touches and admissions in
Avice's letters, that Jerome, like herself, was
not free. He loved her  Sara : yet sometimes
she could weep, and wish it were not
so. Oftener she felt a half-contemptuous
satisfaction in the knowledge that he had not
been able to cast aside her power over him
with his promises to her. But oftener still
she had the feeling, which she instinctively
felt to be a far more dangerous one, of a
restless wonder what would happen if they
were to meet ; a wonder that sometimes grew
into something nearly akin to a longing.
Before this feeling she trembled, trying to
release herself from it, but it had a trick of
seizing her unawares, and mastering her.

'And it was in such moments that she felt
what a slight division lay between her present
calm, monotonous existence, and the great
abyss opening under the feet of those who
yield to reckless impulses or to what are
euphoniously called * ungovernable passions

Such thoughts, and her meditations upon
Avice's letters, ran like a key-note through
her mental life at that time  tinctured all her
thoughts, her reading, her work ; for since
she had begun to believe that she was never
to paint again, she had had resort to needlework,
and was copying some curious old
Flemish lace, under the tutelage of a nun
from a neighbouring cloister. Under her
auspices, too, she had discovered some poor
in and around the town, and not only poor,,
but ignorant ; and she found some occupation
in helping and teaching them.

That high-almighty Miss Ford turned
lace-maker and sister of charity  buried alive
in the dullest place in the world, and crying;

her eyes out from pure Langeweile because
she has displeased her husband, who is
jealous, and has shut her up there !'

Such was the account given by Frau Gold-mark
(who had a cousin in Lahnburg, with
whom she corresponded) to that very Fraulein
Waldschmidt who had been disabled
by scarlet fever from taking a share in the
tableaux vivants. When it is remembered
what language Frau Goldmark had formerly
used in speaking to Sara Ford of this very
young lady, it becomes almost impossible for
an impartial mind to acquit her entirely of a
spirit of time-serving.

Sara had been pacing about the terrace fora
long time, now and then reading over again
portions of Avice's letter, and anon lost in her
own mournful reflections. At last, raising her
eyes as she turned in her walk, she saw
Falkenberg's figure advancing towards hen
The first impulse that rushed across her mind
was to conceal the letter she held in her hand

after which she found herself blushing hotly
at the idea of doing so. and thinking, with a
sudden prophetic fear, that it would be an
evil day  if ever it should dawn  on which
she could not meet his eyes. The uncomfortable
sensation remained, however, that she
had been cherishing wrong thoughts  -
thoughts best described by the hackneyed
term ' improper

She advanced to meet Falkenberg, and
held out her hand to him. She wished she
could have smiled and looked glad to see him,
in answer to the long and wistful look he gave
her ; but she felt more unhappy, more constrained
in his presence than ever, and it was
with a look of profound gravity that she
greeted him.

You did not expect to see me T said he.

I always feel that you may or may not
come any day,' said Sara.

'You are better. So your letters have
Told me  so you look,' said he.

Better  I am well In body,' she rejoined ;
and as she spoke, the same look of deep dejection
returned  to her eyes the same cloud
as that which of late had constantly been
there.

Not In mind ?' asked Rudolf, gently.
She shook her head.

I wish 1 could say that I even felt as if I
were becoming better. Everything seems as
dark, or darker than it was before. Do you
see this letter ?'

She held it up, and her face was dark as she
spoke.

Yes, of course.'

It is from Avice Wellfield. I will tell you
the truth. It cannot be more bitter to you
than It Is to me. These letters are the events
of my life, the only things I really care for.
I look forward to them with an eagerness I
cannot express, and when they have come, I
live upon the recollection of them. I cannot
find my place in this new life. I will not

deceive you she added, with a vehemence
almost passionate. ' I have not sunk so lows
to even wish to do that ; but I feel degraded,
humiliated, miserable, to think that I
cannot cast aside my weakness, that it dwells
with me. And as for returning to my old
pursuits  to my painting  to the joy I used
to have in even holding a brush in my hand
I do not believe it will ever return to me
again. I believe it is destroyed. I have
heard of such things happening after a great
shock or a serious illness. I have had both ;
why should it not be so with me ?'

She spoke bitterly, though composedly,
and beat her hand with Avice's letter.

And you do care for those letters t' he
asked.

*Yes  oh, if  do you object, Rudolf?
Would you like me to give over writing ?'
she asked, with something like a ray of hope
dawning upon her face.

*Give it up  my dear child, I would not

deal such a blow to your poor little friend, or
offer such an insult to you, as even to hint
such a thing. To me, you are above
suspicion, Sara. If I heard you were
corresponding with Jerome Wellfield himself,
I should feel no uneasiness. I know you
and your pride and simplicity too well.'

Ah, if only you had not been so chivalrous
and so mistaken as to marry me, Rudolf. I
fear it has been a terrible error on both sides.'

Do you think so ? We had better give ita
little longer trial, I think, hadn't we ?' he
asked composedly, while he glanced rather
keenly at her face. * Do you, perhaps, feel
tired of this place ? Would you like change
of scene or company ? Is there no one you
would like to have with you ? Miss Well-field,
for example ?'

No. Avice has found a life at home. It
is astonishing how she develops, how quickly
she is growing into a woman, and a thoughtful
one. She finds that her sister-in-law needs

her presence greatly, and I gather from her
letters, though she evidently has no Idea of It
herself, that she also will marry before long,
and that happily.'

Then you will not ask her to come and
see you ?'

No, thank you. I have thought about it,
and I am sure that this is the best place forme.
Solitude will not drive me mad. Let
this be Mein Genilgen  I will make it so fora
time longer, if you will allow me. If I am
to find peace anywhere, and a path through
life, it will be here.'

So be it. And since such is the decision
you have come to, I may tell you the more
freely that I have come to-day to say good-bye
for a long time. I am going on a journey, and
before I go I want to have a little talk with
you on business, If you don't mind.'

Going away I' uttered Sara, startled.
Where ?'

Oh, to wander about Indefinitely  aufeine

Rise ins Blue, as my own people would say.
I am not going alone. A friend of mine, an
artist, Rupert Schwermuth, goes with me, or
rather, I offered to join him when I heard he
was intending to travel and study. He means
to go to Greece amongst other places, China,
and Japan : he raves about Japanese art. I
am going to rough it with him, by way of a
change.'

Sara found she had absolutely nothing to
answer to this. To object would, she felt, be
worse than absurd ; to say she was glad
would not be true, for with the knowledge
that he was going so far away, came a sudden
chill sense of prospective loneliness and desolation
; yet she must say something, she felt,
and at last managed to stammer out :

 I think you do wisely. I hope you will
enjoy your tour. But will you write
to me ?'

If you wish it,' he said. ' You seem tired ;
take my arm. Do you mean just bulletins

VOL. III. 12

from the successive stages of the journey,
or do you mean something more like
letters ?'

I mean letters. I should like them exceedingly.
I hope you will write.'

I will write. And you  will you answer
my letters ?'

What news can I possibly have to send
from here ?' said Sara, slowly.

Tell me what you do every hour, from the
time you get up till the time you go to bed, if
you have no other news. It is not fair that
it should be all on one side. And if you are
anxious for letters, what shall I be, do you
suppose ?'

I will write,' said Sara, in a rather low
tone.

That is decided, then. Now, do you
mind coming into the house, for my time is
short, and I want to tell you something about
money matters.'

They went into the house, sat down at the

writing-table, and Herr Falkenberg from his
breast-pocket drew forth a cheque-book.

Do you see this ?' he said. * I have left
directions with them at the bank to honour all
your cheques, so long as you don't overdraw
my private account,' he added, smiling. * And
this little book is to procure you the means of
subsistence while I am away.'

I will not be extravagant,' said Sara.

No, don't, or I shall of course be exceedingly
displeased. '' Freely, but not extravagantly,"
is an excellent motto ; and you were
born to devise and carry into execution
schemes of economy.'

Now you are laughing at me,' said
Sara.

Sometimes I cannot help it'

 But why do you do it T she asked,
piqued.

Heaven forbid that I should tell you why.
You would never give me the chance of doing
it again, and that would afflict me sorely.

12  2

Now I must go he added, looking at his
watch, and rising.

Go! No, you will stay for the Mittagessen,
at least. You have never taken a meal in
this house since I came into it  you, the
master of it'

I wish I could stay. But you see, Rupert
was to meet me '

Let him wait !' said Sara, with a heightened
colour. * Rudolf, I beg you to remain.
You are not starting off to-day. Please do
remain till afternoon.'

Wie du wills he replied using the du
for the first time, as Sara instantly noticed.

Thank you,' she answered ;* and here
they are to say that lunch is ready. Shall we
go to the dining-room ?'

I shall have to go directly afterwards,
though,' said he, * for poor Rupert will be
cooling his heels at my house, wondering
what has become of one who never fails to
keep an appointment'

On which day do you think of setting off ?'
asked Sara, as they sat down to the table.

 To-morrow,' he replied.

To-morrow ! There is something remorseless
about tomorrow.'

The meal was not a long one. Sara was
somewhat flushed and excited. She hardly
knew what had prompted her to insist so
strongly upon Rudolf's remaining, but she
was glad she had done it.

He sat grave and composed as ever.
Having made up his mind to the wrench of
parting from her, he felt it rather increased
his difficulty than otherwise when she displayed
this sudden momentary gleam of 
what was it ?  a latent tenderness, or an
amiability called forth by the fact that she was
on the point of being rid of him for some
months to come, and felt that the least she
could do was graciously to * speed the parting
guest'

Very soon after lunch was over he

said, very decidedly this time, that he must

go-must

you, really ? And  from what

place will you first write to me ?'

Suppose we say from Trieste ?'

From Trieste  very well. I shall expect
a letter from there

Both were speaking composedly, but Sara
was on the verge of tears, and he was not
unmoved, though he successfully concealed
the fact.

Good-bye, then,' he said.

There was a pause.

I have a horror of saying good-bye,* said
Sara at last, forcing herself to speak with an
appearance of calm.

 Have you ? It is one of the pains that
attend the pleasures of life, I suppose.*

Pleasures ?*

*The pleasure of travelling, I mean. You
can't go abroad without saying good-bye,
unless you wish to be thought a monster.'

Ah, you can joke about it. I cannot.
And in a case like this, when you are going
such a very long way off. Suppose anything
happened in which I wanted advice.'

In that envelope you will find full directions,
and the address of my confidential
manager and head man  indeed he is more
than that, and as he is a gentleman in every
respect, you will be able to apply to him as
you would to me.'

Indeed I shall not, Rudolf!' she exclaimed,
almost sharply.

Another pause.

I am afraid my going will vex you ; upset
you. Would you like me to give it up ?' he
asked slowly.

Oh no ! no !' she answered hastily.  Not
for worlds ! It was but a momentary folly.
Let it pass ! I hope you will have every kind
of enjoyment on your journey.'

Ah, Sara, I wish that momentary folly
would recur oftener ! But there ! don't distress

yourself. Remember this'  he clasped
both her hands, and looked with an earnestness
that was almost solemnity into her eyes
' wherever I may be, however I may be,
so that I am able to move at all, one word
from you will summon me back. Here, in
this house, or wheresoever you are, is mem
Genugenvay joy and my pleasure and contentment.'


Sara could not speak. As their eyes met,
she could not tell whether it was a great joy
or a great sorrow which that long, earnest
look foreboded. Faikenberg stooped and
kissed her forehead, said, to her,  Lebewohl T
and was gone.

WELLFIELD.

TOJgHE feelings were varied, the emotions
complicated which, that
spring and summer, held sway in
the hearts of the household at Wellfield
Abbey.

At the time of Nata's marriage, Mr. Bolton
had retired to Monk's Gate, with his Daiite
and his books of voyages and travels ; and
there Avice Wellfield had been of great
solace to him, as she had unconsciously
betrayed in her letters to Sara.

John Leyburn generously divided his
attentions between Monk's Gate and the

Abbey ; a plan which made little real difference
in the amount of his company
bestowed upon either place, for often the
Abbey party would be at Monk's Gate, or
Monk's Gate would go to the Abbey ; and
thus they all met nearly as much as
before.

At the Abbey, Nitawas, as she always had
been, the mistress. Jerome and A vice were
the new elements. Jerome, probably by way
of blunting disagreeable reflections, had taken
in good earnest to business ; and if he did not
care to reflect upon the means by which he
had arrived at his present position, he had
perhaps some comfort in the knowledge that
in that state of life he was done what
approximated, at any rate, to his duty, so far
as he knew how.

Mr. Bolton went seldom to the office, and
had begun to trust more power and responsibility
into the hands of his son-in-law. He
had privately told John that his health was

not all he could wish, but that he desired not
to alarm Nata, and he therefore confided to
him alone that his heart was wrong. He had
privately consulted a great doctor or two, and
they all said the same thing. He therefore
desired gradually to retire from the business.
Thus more and more work fell upon Jerome's
shoulders, and yet they were not overloaded.
He went eagerly and readily to work : in this
employment, which a year ago would have
been utterly distasteful to him, he found some
distraction ; for the atmosphere at home was
not altogether cheering. When a man has
acted in a base and cowardly manner, but yet
has sufficient moral sensitiveness left to desire
that his surroundings may think well of him,
it is a galling thing when one who is a portion
of those surroundings tacitly shows him that
she knows he has not been all that he ought
to have been  to her and to others ; and that,,
judging, not by some superlative code of high
morality, but by the common hacked and

hewed standard of honesty and decency
patronised by the ordinary, unremarkable
man, that he has not even washed his hands
in the common brown soap and water of this
working-day world, let alone cleansing them
in the finer and more subtle essences of
chivalry.

For some months after their marriage Nata
continued to worship her husband with a
silent, intense passion of devotion which
soothed and pleased him, even while he was
uneasily conscious of a certain volcanic,
sulphurous sort of atmosphere, while he
had the idea that he was as it were standing
on the edge of a crater  a position not without
its discomforts. Nata never asked him
any question as to that other love of which
he had spoken to her ; she appeared satisfied
with his emphatic assurance that it was *over,
gone, passed away ' entirely, and she rejoiced
in what he did give her of tenderness and
affection. He never knew what it was that

caused the change In her. He never asked,
for he dared not, or Nata might perhaps have
been able to tell him that one evening when
he was away, Father Somerville had called to
see him, and finding him out, had kindly
bestowed his society upon her for half
an hour. As It was, she never mentioned
the Interview except In the most
casual way, merely saying that Mr. Somerville
had been disappointed to find Jerome
out. She did not mention that she had learnt
during that half hour her own true position
with regard to her husband, and his with
regard to her  that she had heard about It
without moving a muscle, and had sent
Father Somerville away entirely disappointed
of his hope to turn that position to his own
advantage. The holy father came and went
as before ; Mrs. Wellfield never condescended
to express any dislike to his visits. Jerome
knew nothing of this ; what he did know was
that Nata's whole manner and being had sustained

a nameless yet palpable change ; she
did not show him coldness, nor aversion, but
there was a a wistful sadness, which gradually
grew into a dejection  a quiet sorrow which
at times tortured him.

It was very soon after she had learnt that
she was to become a mother that this change
became apparent in Nata. It was in vain
that he lavished upon her every outward care
and attention ; that he watched her footsteps,
and hung upon her looks, and attended her
wherever she went. It was in vain that he
would refuse invitations and tell her he did
not care to go out until she could go out
again too ; In vain that he gratified, and even
tried to anticipate her every wish : she faded
and drooped before his eyes. And he dared
not go beyond this outward form of devotion.
He dared not ask the reason of the inward
grief that consumed her, because he knew
what the answer would be. He was perfectly
satisfied that she knew something  how much

he knew not, and that again he dared not

ask  but something she knew of the deceit

he had practised towards her ; that he had

taken her for his wife holding a He in his

right hand. The position grew terrible,

even ghastly to him. Sometimes he wished

that she would reproach him ; tell him what

she knew, ask him why he had treated her so

then he could at least have promised that

since they were bound together, he would

never deceive her any more, but would

honestly devote his life to making her happy.

But Nata never did anything of the kind.

She was most gentle, and seemed to shrink

in every way from giving him pain. With

insisting hand and ample generosity she

asserted his rights in everything, and showed

the most boundless confidence in him ;

making a point, if anything of the slightest

importance were referred to her, of saying

that she knew nothing about it, they must

ask Mr. Wellfield. She never appeared to

shrink from being alone with him, though,
when It happened that they were alone, she
would sit for hours silent, unless he spoke.
When he talked to her she always tried to
keep up the conversation. But she was woefully
and mournfully changed. Between her
and Avice existed a great, if not a demonstrative
friendship. Jerome was thankful for
it, and that his wife and his sister had no unseemly
disputes. The only times when Nata
was really bright, or at all like her old self,
were those occasions on which her father was
with them. Then she would collect her
energies (and Jerome painfully felt that her
gaiety was the result of such a collecting of
energy, and not spontaneous), and be even
merry, and that so exactly in her old manner
that her father never suspected anything
wrong, and put down her somewhat wan face
and languid movements to her physical condition.


Are you happy, my child ?' he asked one

afternoon, when he and she were strolling
beside the river. This was very shortly
before his death.

Quite happy, papa,' she answered, and he
concluded that the tears which filled her
eyes as she looked up at him were tears of
happiness.

And Jerome is all he should be  eh ?'

You may see for yourself what Jerome is
to me,' replied Nata, in a vibrating voice, and
with a heightened colour. ' Surely no wife
was ever treated with the attention that he
Skies to me !'

'Well, well, I was but joking,' he answered,
with profound satisfaction. ' When I bought
the Abbey, Nata, years ago, I often thought
to myself that the Wellfields were a proud,
extravagant race, and that their Inheritance
had passed away from them for ever, into
hands that were honest than theirs, and
better able to look after It. Then comes this
youngster, and will have my daughter. It is

VOL. III. I \

Strange  almost like a romance, I think,
sometimes. It seems that a Wellfield is to
have the old place again ; it is not to be a
Radical stronghold, as I had once fancied it
would be. Better so, perhaps. At any rate,
it was best that you should marry the man of
your choice, be he rich or poor, Wellfield or
Smith  and be happy with him. When I do
go, I shall go in peace, knowing that you are
settled in the home you love, with the man
you love.'

There never was anyone who had such a
good father as I have. But he is very wicked
when he says anything about "going," in
peace or otherwise,' replied Nata, with something
like her old smile.

After this they went into the house, and
John came down to supper, for they still kept
up the old hours, in every-day life, at least.
Mr. Bolton also remained, and to all outward
semblance a very happy, united family group
was gathered there. Jerome offered to

accompany his father-in-law to Monk's Gate,
as he had wished to speak with him on a
matter of business. The business was soon
settled, and then, as they stood at the garden-door
of Monk's Gate, Mr. Bolton suddenly
said :

Nata and I had a stroll by the river this
afternoon. I was talking to her about
you.'

Yes ?' said Jerome, his heart giving a
sudden throb as he wondered what they had
talked about him.

When you were married, I had some fears.
Now I have none. I can see that my girl is
happy. I wish you could have seen her face
as she said to me, *' You can see for yourself
what Jerome is to me." Sometimes I think
I shall not last very long '

God forbid that you should be right in
your idea, sir.'

Anyhow, Nata is all I have, and I thank
you, Wellfield, for making her happy. It

132

gives to my old age all that it needs to make
it contented

He wrung Wellfield's hand, who answered,
in a voice of some emotion :

My wife is an angel. I do not deserve
hen'

Pooh ! '* An angel not too bright and
good  " What is it ? I know I am quoting
it wrong, but it comes to the same thing.
Good-night, boy ! God bless you !'

Jerome, as he walked home, bit his lips,
and his heart seemed burnt up within him
with shame.

Gad ! what a blackguard I feel when this
sort of thing happens !' he muttered, as he
went in.

Avice had gone to bed. John Leyburn
had departed. Nata was in her dressing-room,
where Jerome found her.

You are tired ?' he asked, a new emotion
in his face and eyes, as he bent over
her.

A little, dear. Nothing much. I suppose
you are busy ?'

Yes. It is only a quarter-past ten. I am
going to read for an hour. I have been 
I mean your father has been speaking to me
about you. He has been thanking me for
making you happy. My God, Nata! How
can I look at you and confess it ! But some
day '  he clasped her hand  * some day, you
shall be happy  you shall, my wife.'

He dared not trust himself to say anymore,
but left her.

Nata sat still in the same position, not
weeping  she did not very often weep now 
but looking down at the wedding-ring on her
hand, and wondering if that some day would
ever come.

It was but a very few days after this that
Mr. Bolton's death took place. Nata was
very quiet, and apparently not much disturbed
about it. She spoke about it to no
one, except that when she first saw John

Leyburn after it, she thanked him for all he
had been to her father ; and she one day said
to Jerome that now the Abbey belonged to
him, she wished very much that he would
settle Monk's Gate upon Avice for her own,
unless he objected.

And there is another thing,' she added ;
 I believe Avice and John are very fond of
one another, and I want you, if he proposes
for her, to give your consent

Avice and John ! My dear child, you are
dreaming !'

Oh no, I am not. I know all about it as
well as if they had told me ; and oh, Jerome,
don't come between them, please.'

I think you are match-making a little ; but
if it should turn out so, I shall certainly not
oppose it, and I will see about Monk's Gate
being settled upon Avice at once.'

Nata thanked him, and the subject
dropped.

Mr. Bolton's will was much applauded by

all who heard of it, as being very just and
righteous  a pattern of a will. Needless to
go into details. The property was left to
Nata and her husband on trust, subject to
certain restrictions, for their lifetime, when
the bulk of it went to a prospective elder son,
proper provision being made for what other
children there might be, and for Nata, if she
were left a widow.

Having left behind him these right and
equitable provisions, Mr. Bolton was laid
away to his rest in Wellfield churchyard, and
allowed to sleep out his long sleep in peace.

After this the household at the Abbey
went on much as usual. Nata, though subdued,
did not look utterly unhappy. Yet she
was a most unhappy wife, and Jerome knew it
well, and felt the unhappiness to be beyond
his power of curing. Nothing would restore
her happiness now, and nothing give her full
contentment, except the knowledge that he
loved her  perhaps not even that, if she knew

all of his conduct towards Sara  for Nata was
tender-hearted. In the meantime, there was
that unalterable fact  the past, the one thing
that no power in the heavens above or in the
earth beneath could make different, or cause
to be as if it had not been.

Mr. Bolton was gone. John and Avice
continued to bicker and squabble in a polite
way, and were as much engrossed in one
another as two really unselfish persons can
be. Nata, as time progressed, kept more in
the house, spent more hours on her sofa, with
book and work, with Avice by her side, or
Jerome, or alone with her dog Speedwell.
She often sent them away, telling them she
liked to be alone, and did not wash them to be
tied to her. Jerome once uneasily inquired
of Avice:

Are you sure Nata really prefers to be left
with her book ? What book is that she reads
in so much ?'

For Nata always closed the book when he

approached, and laid it beside her in a manner
which did not permit him to take it up.

It is the Imitation CJmstiy Jerome ; and
I think she does Hke to be left with it,' said
Avice, abruptly.

The one other Intimate visitor beside John
Leyburn, was Father Somerville. Nata saw
very little of him. She now never offered
the slightest remark upon his visits, almost
ignoring them. Both Jerome and Avice
imagined that her dislike to him had merged
into a neutral feeling. Somerville himself,
and he alone, was conscious how completely
he was held at arm's length by the lady of
the house, by the insignificant girl whom he
had covertly sneered at many a time, even
while he was advising Wellfield to marry
her. He did not speak of it to anyone, but
Nata's treatment of himself galled him, and it
is to be feared that his bosom was not
inhabited solely by that angelic mildness, that
indifference to all slights and injuries which

Father Ravignac, at any rate, would have us
believe animates the breast of every true
Jesuit. Father Somerville had expected that
Mrs. Wellfield would be unhappy ; he had
even taken active steps for making her
unhappy, and he had expected that her
unhappiness would cause her to take counsel
with some one, perhaps with him, who so well
knew how to invite confidence. But that
unhappiness had had quite a different effect.
It had transformed the * insignificant girl' into
a perfectly dignified, self-possessed woman 
a very sad woman, certainly, but one who-wore
her crown of sorrow without cries or
appeals  one whose grief was confessed, if at
all, as between herself and her God  not to
him, or to any like him. He was bitterly
mortified, and while his keen insight told him
the truth, he could not help admiring and
wishing the more that he could gain any
influence over her.

He had the more power over Jerome  a

power which he valued, though he would asa
matter of taste have preferred the other,
since there was assuredly more glory in being
able to influence a pure and exalted soul, than
one weakened by selfishness and enervated
by a feeling of self-contempt. He had not
failed to probe Jerome Wellfield's heart, as
opportunity was afforded. One day, in a fit of
almost intolerable remorse, when he had just
heard the news of Sara's having been at the
point of death, and of her marriage with
Falkenberg, and when, as it seemed to him,
his wife was fading away before his eyes,,
consumed with her sorrow, Jerome had
confessed  it could be called nothing else.
The temptation cf confiding in one whom he
felt to be so much stronger and more self-sufficing
 one whose hold on life and the
things of life was so much firmer than his
own, had proved too strong. Wellfield had
told him the whole story of his love for Sara
Ford  of his conduct towards her, and that

when he dared to think of it, he loved her
yet. For a short time it gave him relief, then
Somerville let him know, by degrees, that he
had fastened a chain about his wrists  that
he was, to a certain extent, in his power ; he
hinted, in short, that Mrs. Wellfield might
take umbrage at the story, if it were related
to her. Wellfield cursed his own weakness
for a time, and soon began to long inexpressibly
for some change of scene, however
fleeting. He had deteriorated  that goes
without saying. Deterioration  mental and
moral  is as natural, as inevitable a consequence
of a series of actions such as his
had lately been, as the sequence of the
seasons, the rhythm of seedtime and harvest,
of reaping and garnering is inevitable, as, to
use the hackneyed scripture, to sow the wind
and reap the whirlwind is inevitable.

But of course the deterioration had scarcely
yet begun visibly to manifest itself. His
wife's state had more influence with him than

his own restless longings. His place was
beside her  every voice of nature and of
duty told him so, and he obeyed their mandate.
The summer passed on. Nata did
not expect her confinement until the end of
October  and until that was over he must
assuredly remain with her.

Things were, then, in this state at the beginning
of October, when one of those things
happened which do happen sometimes  little
things in seeming, and which yet make grim
sport with the greater things which seem of
so much more importance.

A commercial house in Frankfort failed 
a house with which Mr. Bolton's firm had
always done a large amount of business. A
meeting of creditors was called, at which it
was highly desirable that principals should
be present. Wellfield wished to remain at
home and let it pass, but xAvice having incautiously
spoken about it, Nata insisted, with a
determination that was almost vehement, that

he should go. It was ascertained that he
could easily go and return in a week, and asa
telegram requesting his presence came to
add to the pressure, he went one morning in
the first half of the month.

JEROME.

'There is nothing more galling than to receive pity-where
we would fain inspire love.'

HERE had been a long and stormy
meeting of creditors  fierce disputes
over the accounts which
were brought forward, much vituperation,
much gesticulation, and Jerome Wellfield had
sat through it all, like a man in a dream,
scarcely hearing a word.

He leaned back in his chair, his hands in
his pockets and his face set, his eyes fixed
frowningly upon the green leather top of the
table at which he sat. Two sentences which

he had heard, earlier In the day, exchanged
between two gentlemen in the coffee-room of
his hotel, had banished all other subjects from
his mind.

When is Falkenberg going to be back
from that immense Rise ins Blaze that he
undertook in May ? and has he left his wife
alone all this time ?'

Oh, I fancy no one knows when he will be
back. His wife is at his place at Lahnburg.
She is very quiet, they say, and people think
they have had a quarrel. Don't know how
much of it is true, I am sure.'

He had heard every word of it. The two
speakers had sat at the next table to his ashe
breakfasted that morning. Ever since,
heart and head alike had been in a tumult.
Not an hour's journey distant from him, and
alone ! Of course he must not go to see her,
it would be the height of folly and presumption
and wickedness ; but could he not get one
glimpse of her, take one glance Into her face

unseen by her ; have a view of her, perhaps,
as she walked in her garden  or behold some
outline of her form at the window. That
would be enough. There would be nothing-wrong
in that ; he could see her, and she
would not see him ; having seen her, he could
return home with a quieter heart.

The mention of her name, the knowledge
of her proximity to him, had revealed, as such
incidents do reveal, his own inmost soul to
himself, and shrine there he found Sara
Ford still, and knew not whether to rejoice
that he yet loved her whose equal he had
never seen, or whether to mourn that he could
not cast that love aside, and content himself
with the things that were his.

Thus he debated and debated within himself,
endeavouring to find reasons why he
should go to Lahnburg, while all the time,
deep In his heart there was the full consciousness
that he ought on no consideration to go
near the place, that to do it would be an

VOL. III. 14

insult to Sara and to his own wife, and could
bring nothing but misery to himself.

The meeting had been held at Frankfort
in the forenoon, and was over by two o'clock.
Jerome, when it was over, went into the hall
of his hotel, and looking round, found what
he had come for, though he had not even in
his own mind confessed so much  a railway
time-table fixed against the wall. He studied
it, and saw that there were many trains on
the Lahnburg line ; one at five o'clock from
Frankfort, arriving at Lahnburg at six.
Three hours were before him in which to
decide, and he said within himself :

I will have some lunch, and think about
it, but I don't think I shall go.'

Yet, when he had ordered some lunch and
sat in the coffee-room waiting for it, he
caught himself thinking what a long time it
would be before the time came to set out for
the station.

Should he go, or should he not .- He ate

and drank something, and strolled out of the
hotel into the town, and passed by the people
who wanted to show him the sights, and he
thought he was trying to decide not to go.
He repeated to himself all the arguments
against going, and they were numerous and
cogent. Then he caught himself wishing
ardently that he had something to keep him
in Frankfort  some engagement that would
prevent his leaving the town that evening.
Then he went back to the hotel and compared
the clock there with his watch. A
quarter before five. The station was close at
hand  must he go, or must he stay ? A
man came up to him  one of the merchants
who had been present at the meeting, and
with whom he had a slight acquaintance, arid
said politely :

Mr. Wellfield, if you are staying in the
town, and have no other engagement tonight,
will you do me the honour of dining
at my house ? we are having some friends,

14  2

and I should be delighted to Introduce you
to my wife and daughters.'

Thank you,' replied Wellfield, after a
scarcely perceptible pause ; * you are very
kind, and I should have been delighted, but
I have an engagement out of town, and must
go to the station now, if I am to catch my
train.'

The die was cast, and he went quickly out
of the hotel, and down the street to the
station. Ten minutes later, he was In the
train, on his way to Lahnburg.

When he arrived there It was dusk, as It is
in October at six o'clock. He knew the
place well, though he had not been of the party
on that day of Sara Ford's first visit there.
He knew the way, too, to Falkenberg's
house, and quickly he walked there, and
pushed open the gate, stood In the garden,
and surveyed the old mansion. Behind one
or two of the blinds he saw lights. Everything
was very still In the dank, sad air of the

autumn evening. Not a sound came from the
house. The trees stood drooping and
motionless, saturated with the autumnal dew,
which is heavy and soaking and dank, not
]seing lightly like a gossamer mist as that of
summer does. He could see the lights of
the town twinkling here and there, and a
faint hum came up from that direction ; but to
the right and straight before him there was
only a great veil of mist, hiding field and hill,
river and distance, alike.

He went up to the door, and rang the bell.
A man-servant opened the door, and Well-field
began :

Is  ' but his tongue refused to say
Falkenberg's name. 'Is the. gnddige Fjazc
at home ?'

She was at home, he was told ; and Well-field
entered, and told the man his name.
The servant perhaps did not catch the
sound of the strange name, but seeing a
gentleman, composed and calm, asking for his

mistress, he concluded it was right, and opening
the door of the salon, announced :

A gentleman asks to see the gracious
lady.'

Wellfield saw the lighted room, the figure
seated, writing, at a table. A moment afterwards
he was alone with her; she had risen
and stood looking at him with a strange
alarmed, alien expression, which sent a
dismal chill to his very heart. She did not
speak. She stood looking at him, and, as he
could not help seeing, with an expression of
aversion, of shrinking distaste. Her hand
grasped the back of the chair from which she
had risen, as if for support.

His voice first broke the silence :

Have I startled you, Sara ? Forgive me
but I -'

She drew a long sigh, as if then first realising
that she was not in some strange dream.

What  what brings you here ?' she asked
in an almost inaudible voice.

 I was in Frankfort,' he said. * By
accident I heard your name, and heard that
you were here and alone. I tried to fight
against it, but the impulse was too strong. I
felt as if I should repent it all my life if I did
not see you once more, while I could.'

You seem to forget that your visit must
be very unwelcome to me ; and that you had
no right to come. Had I known of your
intention I should have ordered my servant
not to admit you. You must know that you
are acting very wickedly.'

Wickedly P he repeated, scornfully and
bitterly, * of course I am wicked. Have I
not been wicked all along ? Do you suppose
I do not know it ?'

I do not know, I am sure,' she repeated,
in the same low, almost frightened voice, and
with the same look of aversion in her eyes,
and a sort of alarmed wonder, which expression
galled him beyond what words can
express; * I do not know how wicked you

have been, but I think you forget yourself
strangely in thus forcing your presence upon
me. Will you go away, please, and leave
me ? You can have nothing to say to me
that I can listen to, and I have nothing at all
not one word  to say to you.'

Not one ? Have you no feeling for me,
Sara '. Do you suppose that I am happy 
that I enjoy my life . Look at me ! I look
happy, do I not ?'

I pity you from my soul !' she replied.
And if my pity can be of the least use to
you, take it. I should indeed be inhuman if
I withheld it.'

She spoke very gently, never losing her
expression of pain and aversion. Wellfield
saw it ; saw that she was bewildered, tortured
by his presence. The scorn and the
withering contempt he had expected were
not there. What was there was far more
hopeless for him  much harder for him to
bear. He had had wild visions of falling at

her feet and forcing her to own that she, too,
loved him as he loved her. Such a course
was now out of the question. He feet
degraded and humbled, and, worse than that
a fool  ridiculous and absurd.

At least hear me when I tell you that I
shall never cease to repent what I did in my
madness. I shall never know happiness
again, in feeling that I have destroyed yours,
Sara

You are quite mistaken,' she replied, suddenly
and clearly, as she stood up without
support, folding her hands before her, and
looking him full in the face. * You have not
destroyed my happiness ; it is out of your
power to do so. You turned it into bitter
wretchedness for a time, I own. I am not
superhuman. I loved you devotedly, and
trusted you implicitly ; and when you betrayed
me, I suffered as I hope few women do have
to suffer. But you did not destroy my happiness,
for that consists in loving and trying todo

what is good and noble and honest, and
you are none of them. But you cannot
destroy those things, nor my joy in them, do
what you will. Surely that is enough. Please
leave me now, or I must ring the bell and ask
them to show you out.'

You mean to tell me that you will be
happy married to Rudolf Falkenberg ? how
do you account for that ?' pie asked, unheeding
her words, and advancing a step nearer to her,
with eyes fixed upon her face, and breath
coming and going eagerly.

Sara drew herself up, recoiling a step from
before him. Then, looking at him with a
glance devoid of the slightest feeling for him,
she replied, in a deep, calm voice :

Because he is all those things that you are
not; he is good and noble and honest; he Is faithful,
and would be faithful unto death  because
he saved me when you had almost killed me
and quite driven me mad  and because he Is
my husband, and I love him.'

You love ' he began, and stopped

abruptly ; then, with a short, miserable laugh,,
said : ' After that I will go, certainly. And
for the future I beg you will spare me your
pity. I do not need it. Good-night.'

He turned on his heel and left the room.
He did not know how he groped his way to-the
door and opened it, for he could see
nothing. At last he found himself in the
dank, soft, misty outside air again, just enter-
ing the market-square of Lahnburg, repeating
her last words to himself over and over again,
blankly, vacantly, and mechanically: * Because
he is my husband, and I love him.'

A MYSTERY.

Oh snows so pure, oh" peaks so high !
I shall not reach you till I die !'

Songs of Two Worlds,

ELLFIELD found his way somehow
to the station, and waited for
the train to Frankfort, pacing
about the Httle asphalted platform with feelings
of the most horrible shame and
humiliation  a longing to quit the place, to
lose the recollection of it  a sensation that he
belonged to a different world, a lower order
of creature than she did, and that to approach
her was folly, and must necessarily result in

disaster, in singed feathers and maimed
pinions. Blended with this was a sudden
yearning, stronger than he had ever felt
before, to see once more the gentle eyes of
the wife who, he knew, would never love
any other than him, let his shortcomings or
the nobility of the other be never so strongly
contrasted. Truly, could his moral stature,
his innermost zc/i, have been disrobed then
and placed naked before the eyes of men, it
must have presented but a sorry, grovelling-kind
of figure.

The slow, jog-trot train came rumbling in,
and bore him in leisurely fashion past all the
little stations, till at last, long after half-past
eight, they arrived at Frankfort.

He trailed his steps slowly up the street to
the hotel. What he had just gone through
mentally  the moral scourging he had just
sustained, had exhausted him more than the
hardest day of physical exertion could have
done. He felt used up  todtinude as he

dragged himself up the steps into the dazzling
light of the hall, filled with piles of luggage
and groups of visitors  men smoking, girls
flirting with them, parties of people taking
their coffee, an incessant passing to and fro,
and cheerful bustle.

It seemed that there was to be no pause,
no reprieve in the sequence of his calamities
just then. A waiter came up to him, and
asked If he were the person to whom * dieses
'telegram' was addressed.

Mechanically he took It : his apprehension
dulled with the moral castigation from which
he was freshly come, and opened It, dully
wondering from whom it came, and what In
the world It was about.

'john Ley burn, To Heroine Wellfield, Esq.,

Wellfield.  Hotel, Frankfcrt-am-Main.

Your wife has a son. She is very ill.
Return at once, or you may be too late.'

For the first moment this seemed the one

drop too much. With a kind of faint groan,
he dropped into a chair that stood hard by,
and propped his throbbing head upon his
hands, feeling as if to move another step
would be impossible.

But this was but for a moment. He raised
his head at last, and saw that one person had
been compassionate enough to come forward,
and speak to him  a stout, comely English
matron, who, bravely overcoming her insular
reserve, said :

I fear you are ill. Is there nothing we
can do for you ?'

He raised so haggard a face, such wretched
eyes towards her, that she half-started ; but
Jerome, touched inexpressibly by the one
drop of sympathy of this motherly-looking
woman, answered brokenly :

I am not ill, madam, I thank you. I 
my wife  you may see '

He put the paper into her hand, and went
upstairs to put up his things, and hasten to

the night train for Brussels and Calais, which
he knew left in about half an hour's time.
When he came down again, and had paid
his bill, and was going out into the night with
his wretchedness, the same kind-looking
matron stepped up to him, and said, all her
stiffness melted away :

I hope you will find your wife better, and
not worse, when you get home. I can feel
for you, and I shall think of you, for I have
daughters of my own.'

Thank you for your goodness  you are
very kind,' he said quickly, his voice breaking,
as he hurried away.

Poor young fellow ! I wonder if his wife
will get better,' said the prosperous-looking
matron to her husband.

Pooh, my dear ! A perfect stranger !
The thing is sure to be in the Times if she
does die. That '* poor young fellow " must
be young Wellfield of Wellfield. I wonder
how he came to be here.'

He has a great trouble of some kind, and
I hope his poor wife will not die repeated
the lady.

The kindly words of the strange lady put
a momentary warmth into his heart, and he
thought of them more than once on his
journey home.

We all know what a journey from such a
place to London is. Jerome, inquiring on
the way, found that with the best will in the
world he could not be in Manchester before
nine o'clock the following night, and from
Manchester how was he to get to that 
place Well field ? He dared not
stop to think of it, but made his way onwards
as fast as he could. The twenty-four
hours of travelling and waiting, and waiting
and travelling, seemed an eternity. He
knew how they must all be waiting for him,
and Nata  he stopped that thought instantly

VOL. III. 15

  it never got so far as the wonder whether
she were dead or alive.

Manchester at last  after time, on a clear
moonlight night. Into a hansom, with
urgent demands for speed, from the London
Road Station, down the long length of noisy
Piccadilly and Market Street, up the hill to
the Victoria Station. He breathlessly asked
the porter who strolled up to him,  The train
for Welled  how honos ?'

Last train left twenty minutes ago, sir 
the slow one  doesn't get in till eleven.'

I must be there to-night,' he repeated,
mechanically.

There's an express to Bolton, sir, in
five minutes. If you took that, you
might perhaps have a special on from
there.'

This was the only plan, and he took it.
He was in Bolton in half an hour. A few
inquiries there. Yes  they would send him
on with a special if he liked, but not for an

hour. The Hne was blocked, and it could
not be done before then.

A sudden thought struck Jerome. One of
his horses had been sent to Bolton two days
before he left, for a certain dealer to dispose
of : he knew it must still be there, for he had
left orders that nothing was to be concluded
about It till his return. The man's place was
close to the station, and it was but ten
o'clock. It was a twenty miles' ride to Well-field,
but with a swift horse he might be there
sooner than by waiting an hour for a special
train.

How it was settled he knew not. His white
intent face, and something of a silent urgency
in his whole manner, caused the men to
hasten their work. In little more than ten
minutes he rode out of the town along the
great north-eastern road.

It was a moonlight night, and bitter cold  
a contrast to that of twenty-four hours ago.
He settled himself into his saddle, set his

152

teeth, and tried to think it was a short way.
He never confessed the feeling to himself, but
he had little hope  his feeling was, not that
he hastened to give Nata the comfort of his
presence as soon as possible, but that he rode
a race to speak to her and hear her speak to
him before she died.

The horse was fresh, was ready, and willing
for the work ; he shook his head,
stretched his long legs and lean flanks, and
his thundering hoofs consumed the ground
Bending his head before the bitter air,
Jerome gave him rein, and they flew quickly
past village and farm and town, through one
great dingy mass of square buildings and tall
chimneys after another ; through streets
dazzling with lights, and flaring gin-palace
windows, into a long stretch of quiet country,
with the moon shining serenely on the silent
fields.

It seemed an eternity till he came to Burnham,
the last great town before Wellfield,

and some six miles away from it. Outside
the town, beside a brook, he paused to water
his horse ; then, with a word of encouragement,
and a pat on the neck, the good beast
resumed its long, swinging stride, and thereat
last, in the moonlight, he sees the first
home landmark, the great shape of Penhull,
grey and hast in the moonbeams. Nearer
and nearer to that well-known shape, till he
saw the long wooded ridge on which Brentwood
stands, and then down a hill, betwixt
thick woods ; there stands the old white
church at the end of the street, here he is on
the stones of Wellfield village  up its whole
length in a moment's space, in at the Abbey
gate  his horse's hoofs sound hollow on the
turf of the river walk. The gate stands open ;
his eye scans the windows. That was Nata's
room, and a light shone behind the blind.

He flung himself off his horse, and almost
staggered into the house. The drawing-room
door stood wide open, and as he entered a

man came out ; he looked desperately Into
the face of Nata's old friend.

Leyburn  my wife  Is  Is she '

Yes, she Is living still,' said John, putting
his arm within his, and leading him to the
foot of the stairs. ' In her own room,' added
Leyburn. ' Miss Shuttleworth and your
sister are '

*Yes  thanks!' he answered, running up
the stairs and finding himself at last in the
subdued light of Nata's room, hearing A vice's
voice exclaim :

Oh, Jerome ! Thank God !'

He neither saw nor heeded anyone, but
strode to Nata's side, and knelt by her bed,
controlling himself with a great effort.

Is It you, Jerome ?' said a feeble changed
voice. Avice and Miss Shuttleworth had
left them, the latter sobbing uncontrollably.

Don't speak, Nata, my darling ! I am
here, I shall never leave you till you are well
again !' he murmured.

I must speak, Jerome. I want to say 
you will love my baby  oh !' She began to
weep pitifully.

Hush, hush r he implored her.  Nata,
hush ! Let me love yo2t, my child.'

And you will not let him forget that / was
his mother, and should have loved him dearly
if I had stayed with him she went on, in a
voice ever fainter and fainter.

You shall teach him yourself, my wife.
Ah, Nata, you must not leave me! God
knows how I need you and your love and
your forgiveness!'

Jerome,' with a sudden flicker of life and
strength, ' do you love me a little ?'

 As God is above us, Nata, I love you
dearly,' he answered ; and he spoke what was
the truth at the moment, at least.

I am glad that I was able to speak to you,
she said. ' But if '

These were the last words. When,
alarmed by the long silence, A vice and Miss

Shuttleworth entered the room, they found
Wellfield kneeling still beside his dead wife,
holding her cold hands to his breast, and
motionless almost as herself.

CHAPTER X.

CAUGHT.

FEW days later, Nata was laid to
her rest in the churchyard at
Wellfield, beside the father who
had loved her so well, hard by the paved
footpath leading to the church-door. Many
feet would daily pass beside her grave :
lovers walked through the churchyard ; the
old people strolled there to sit on the bench
by the porch at sunset ; the feet of those
who were full of life and business hastened
constantly to and fro ; for the gates were
always open, and the churchyard path was a
much-used thoroughfare.

When it was all over, Avice put her hand
through her brother's arm, and turned to the
two other persons who had come with them
as mourners  John Leyburn and Father
Somerville.

I think we will go home alone, if
you do not mind,' she said, offering her
hand first to one, and then to the other of
them.

Wellfield did not speak ; his gaze was
blank, and he scarcely knew or saw who was
there, or what had passed.

I will come this evening and ask after
you,' said John ; ' and you can see me if you
choose.'

With which, and with a mute inclination
of the head to the others, he went away to
his home. A new love, fresh and strong, had
sprung up in his heart. But he had loved
Nata well, too, with faithful, brotherly love,
and his heart was heavy. Her going made a
great blank space in his life.

Somervllle turned to Avice, and said in a
low voice :

If it gets too much for you, Miss Well-field
'  he o-lanced significantly at Jerome 
send for me, and I will come instantly.'

With which he, too, turned and left
them.

Slowly they walked from the churchyard,
in at the Abbey gate, up the river walk, and
towards the house.

It was a soft, mild October noontide. The
sun shone with mellow, tempered warmth ;
the hues were varied of the fading leaves
and the autumn flowers ; birds chirped here
and there, and the river rushed, as the two
figures, black, and, as It seemed, incongruous,
paced slowly up the walk. As they entered
the house, Avice said pleadingly :

Jerome, won't you go and see Nata's
baby . He is such a lovely child. I am
sure it would make you less grieved.

No, no ! not yet, at any rate.'

Do you know, that when he was born we
thought he would die ? Father Somerville
called to ask about you  he did not know you
were away  just as they were about to send
for the vicar to baptise him ; and he offered todo
it, so they let him, for fear it should be too
late if they waited  for his poor little life
seemed to hang by a thread.'

Why do you say they f asked her brother.

Simply because to me it seemed absurd 
as if it made any difference to the poor little
darling whether he was baptised or not!
Will you not go and see him, Jerome ?'

Perhaps  presently. So Somerville baptised
him !' he said dreamily ; and then
added :

I am going upstairs to her sitting-room.'

Don't stay there too long, Jerome. It
makes me so unhappy to think of you.'

You must not mind me,' was all he said,
as he slowly took his way upstairs.

Passing the rooms which had been set apart

as nurseries, he heard a child's feeble cry, and
started, shuddered, and hastened his steps till
he came to what had of late been Nata's
favourite room  a little boudoir opening from
her bedroom. There was a dimness, subdued
and faint. He stood on the threshold,
looking round, and by degrees began to
distinguish things more clearly. They had
not drawn up the blinds here since Nata had
last been in the room, the evening before she
was taken ill. Everything was as she had
left it. There was the couch on which she
had spent so many weary hours, and the lite
table beside it, on which lay one or two
books, and her writing-case, and a work-basket.
Another book had fallen upon the
floor, and something lay beside it, in which
Jerome, looking intently, recognised Nata's
great dog. Speedwell, stretched upon the
ground beside the couch, waiting, no doubt,
for her return, and watching the book which
had fallen ; it was the book she had read in

SO much of late  her little 'Imitation of
Christ

The old dog looked up, with a wistful
expression, whined a little, and waved his
tall to and fro, as Jerome looked at him.
With an inarticulate sound, which ended in a
heavy sob, the young man dropped upon one
end of the couch, covering his face with one
hand, while the other hung down, and the
dog licked It, and sat up, and whined again,
asking where she was.

His anguish at this moment amounted to
torture, as he realised how completely everything
had come to an end. Here, as he sat
alone, with his own miserable thoughts  here
and in this moment his wages were paid to
him ; measure for measure  no more and no
less ; wages which could not be refused,
could not be transferred, must be accepted
and counted over, and tasted to the bitter
end.

Let the future hold what it might, this

hour could never be wiped out. In his then
state of mind, he could not see any future at
all ; he could see nothing but the past  could
realise nothing except that he had played a
dishonest game, and had lost ; and that at
every turn in his mental path he was confronted
by an 'if.' ' If I had done this!'
If I had told her that !'

He did not know how long he remained in
Nata's room, feeling the tokens of her recent
presence on every side like whips of fire, but
when he left the room and went out of the
house, it was dusk, and he mechanically took
his way towards a field-path by the river,
along which one could wander for two or
three miles uninterrupted by gate or stile, or
barrier of any description. It was lonely and
beautiful ; it had been one of Nata's favourite
haunts.

The path led sometimes through a kind of
lane, with a high hedge on either side, and
again through broad, level fields beside the

river, towards Brentwood, with glorious
views of hill and wood on every side.

Between those hedges and through those
fields Wellfield wandered as one distraught
not with any outward appearance of disorder,
but with inwardly such an agony of
remorse and self-reproach as was rapidly
gaining the ascendency over his judgment
and reason. Long fasting, and watching
beside that cold mask which had been all
that remained of Nata's countenance, and
upon whose placid features he had thought
to detect a fixed and marble reproach, silent
but terrible, and which haunted him ceaselessly
 all this had combined to raise him
into a wild, excited frame of mind, in which
he was scarce master of his impulses or
actions. As he watched, in the rapidly-gathering
dusk, the deep and swiftly-running
river, the desire presented itself again and
again to quench therein this abating torture
of mind : each time the temptation came more

insidiously, and the plausible excuse incessantly
recurred, that he had proved himself
unfit to manage his own affairs, and that
those who were left behind would much
better manage those of his child  his child
whom he had not yet been able to look
upon.

It went so far that at last he stood beside
the river, and looked and looked, until to his
morbid perceptions it seemed to shape its
murmurs into words that invited him to
come. Deep down in his nature he was profoundly
superstitious. There was an old
record of a Wellfield who had been unhappy,
and had destroyed himself in this very river.
Jerome thought in his madness, ' Well,
wherever he is, I may go too, I suppose.
There can be nothing in the future  on the
other side, as bad as this. . . I believe all I
have crone through has been sent to show me
that I have no right to remain here any

VOL. III. 16

longer . . . besides, a life for a life ! I have
taken Nata's, and . . .'

He stood on the very edge of the stream
towards which he had unconsciously drawn,
and was looking down into it as it hurried
past, with a vague, fascinated gaze. Would
it ever have come to the point of throwing
himself in ? Probably not. Suicides are not
such as he. His remorse doubtless was horrible.
But if he had taken that cold plunge,
it would have been, not from a sense that he
was too unworthy a wretch to live, but
because life was so intensely uncomfortable 
to him. Be that as it may, he stood on the
brink, in a dreamy ecstasy  a luxury, as it
were, of grief and self-reproach, interspersed
with vague wonder why women would fall in
love with him, when :

You walk late beside the river, Wellfield,'
said Somerville's voice, while at the same
moment the priest laid his slender, fragile-looking,
yet muscular fingers upon his arm.

Ah !' breathed Wellfield, with a kind of
prolonged sigh ; and then, looking up, he
could see, even through the gathering darkness,
the calm, clear, commanding eyes which
were fixed upon his face. The stronger
nature subdued him -subdued everything
about him : his anguish of remorse ; his poignant
grief; his wild desire to bring his misery
to an end in some way or other, but to put it
to an end. He felt that Somerville had read
his half-formed wish, nor did the latter hesitate
to avow it.

You had no good purpose in your mind ?'
he said, composedly.

For all answer, Wellfield gave a half-groan,
and propped himself up against an
ancient, gnarled crab-tree which overhung
the stream. Then, after a pause, he said :

I had no purpose at all, except to end my
wretchedness. I tell you I cannot live
through much more of this. Why did you

come in my way ?'

because

another lot is appointed to you
than to make an end of yourself in that river,'
was the reply ; * and I  I recognise it distinctly
 was sent to tell you of that different
lot

Then give me peace  give me ease from
these torments that I am enduring said
Wellfield, fiercely his sombre eyes, clouded
over with his anguish, flashing suddenly.
'You it was who first put the cursed idea
into my head of marrying that girl ; you told
me then, when I hesitated, that if I belonged
to you  you could make it all smooth and
right for me. Make it right now  now that
I have murdered her and got her money

Yes, I will do so,' was the rejoinder, in a
tone of such perfect assurance, such calm conviction,
that his hearer felt it strike something
like conviction to his heart. ' You are in a
labyrinth, but I can guide you out of it, for I
have the clue. Yield yourself only to my
guidance. That is all I demand. And forme

to guide you, I must know all, unreservedly
every secret of your heart, every thought
that distracts you. Then I can help you

Who shall deny the healing virtue of confession
now and then ? The temptation to
confess now was irresistible to Jerome ; to
Somerville it suddenly gave the power he so
ardently desired ; suddenly, and far more
easily than he had expected. It was not the
first case, by many, of remorse gone mad,
which he had had to deal with. A dullard,
an unsympathetic nature might have driven
the patient to worse lengths. Somerville
was neither the one nor the other, and by
this time he thoroughly understood the nature
he had to deal with  the hot southern impetuousness
which raged and rebelled under
misfortune, which met grief as a hated foe, to
be wrestled with  not as a fact inseparable
from life itself, to be accepted ; the half-hysterical
remorse, the stinging, intolerable
sense of humiliation and degradation which

SO tortured the man who loved to see things
smooth, and to find circumstances bland.
Somerville's hand was at once light and firm.
Walking with Wellfield to the Abbey, he
heard out the whole miserable story ; the
confession of all that had happened from the
time Jerome had left Wellfield for Frankfort,
up to this very day, when he had gone into
Nata's room and found her old dog watching
beside her couch.

It was an opportunity which the priest did
not fail to turn in a masterly manner to the
very best advantage. Already he saw the
Abbey and its wealth once more in the hands
of firm adherents of the Roman Catholic
Church  of the Society of Jesus. Had not
the child been, by his own hand, baptised
into that Church ? He distracted Jerome's
mind from its purely emotional pain, by reminding
him that Nata and her father had
left things behind them  the one land and
money, the other a life  for the disposal of

which things he alone was now answerable.


He found Wellfield only too ready to own
that he wanted guidance, only too eager to
clasp the first helping hand extended to him.
Somervllle remained all night at the Abbey,
with every hour binding his silken chain
more firmly and more Intricately around his
penitent. He sent word to the Superior
at Brentwood on what mission he was
engaged, and during the long vlgU he kept
with the broken man, he succeeded in the
most vital part of the work which he had
set himself. He convinced Wellfield that
he was indispensable to his peace of mind,
and he promised not to desert him.

In the morning, before leaving for Brentwood,
after promising that he would return
again, Somervllle, passing through the
drawing-room, found Avice standing therewith
the motherless baby In her arms. She
held It tenderly, with a motherly, protecting

gesture, and looked down with love and
pity into its face. He paused, smiling, and
said :

I have forgotten to ask how your charge
goes on, Miss Wellfield ?'

Both nurse and the doctor say he is going
to thrive, father. Look into his dear little
face  he looks rosy and healthy. Poor little
darling, how I love him ! and how I wish
Jerome would take to him. !*

I will do what I can to persuade him when
I call again. At present he is utterly worn
out with grief and watching.'

Yes said Avice, tears dimming her violet
eyes. * Do you know, I did not think Jerome
cared so much for my sister as it seems he
does. I have done him an injustice.'

One naturally cares more or less for the
person who is of most importance to one,'
replied Somerville, with a sweet and polished
smile. He looked again at the child, whose
dark eyes dwelt unconsciously and with the

vague, meaningless gaze of infancy upon his
face, and bending over it, he blessed it, slow
and solemnly. ' Since I baptised him, I may
do that ?' he said.

Surely !' replied Avice ; and added, with a
musing look, ' Oh, if Nata could have but
lived to see him like this, I think mere love
would have given her courage to fioht her
way back to life again, and she would have
struggled through.'

It may be so,' replied Somerville, wishing
her good-morning, and wondering within himself,
as he went away, how long it would be
whether he should be still living, and still
teachings when that baby should be a student
at Brentwood. * For that he will be,' he said
within himself. * What strides I have made
in this affair ! and how truly providential that
the mother died at that precise time ! Had
she lived, we should never have had the
child and if he marries again, we must
see that the woman is a Catholic'

Refunded.

HEN Wellfield left her, Sara sat
down, trembling and unnerved.
But that sensation was not of long
duration. Soon she recovered, and was
astonished at the sudden lightsomeness of
heart which she felt. It was as if sore
thunder-cloud had burst, had discharged its
flood of storm-rain, and dispersed, leaving
a sky behind of a blue etherealised and
idealised. It was not the effect she would
have expected  the very reverse; it gladdened
her as unexpected joy does gladden.
She did not mention, even to Ellen, the visitor

she had had. She had a plan In her mind,
which came there spontaneously ; she found it
there ; it gladdened her, thrilled her, filled her
eyes with happy tears. She would make it
the pretext for telling Rudolf that she loved
him ; she would so tell the Incident of Jerome's
unlucky and reckless visit to her, that no
doubt should remain in her husband's mind
as to what she meant, for as to speaking
out the words to him which she had said
with such boldness and composure to Well-field
 the very idea of it was impossible.

Ellen, as she helped her mistress to undress,
wondered greatly what could cause the
frequent smile, and the brightened eyes
which she instantly noted.

The next morning was a clear, glorious
autumnal one; a white mist enveloped the
valley, and covered the river and the fields
which bordered it, and the long rows of
poplars between which It flowed, while the
tops of the hills stood out, clear and distinct,

bathed in a flood of golden sunshine, and the
sky above was like a sapphire for clearness
and depth of hue.

Sara drank in deep draughts of the sweet,
bracing air, and as she looked around, her
heart swelled within her, and an Impulse
which for months had slumbered  had been
as though It had never Inspired her, animated
her once more  the desire, namely, to take
her brush in her hand, and picture that scene
as once she would have had great joy in
doing. But after first arriving at Mein
Genilgen she had had such an Impulse often,
and nothing had come of it ; when she had
tried to reduce It to action, she had been so
disheartened with the dulness, the utter
absence of life, of the old strength and craft,
that it was now long since she had renewed
the attempt. This morning, though the
impulse was at first strong within her, she
shook her head, and decided not to make an
attempt which must end in disappointment.

She opened her book, and tried to be
interested in that.

Soon the effort succeeded. It was an
Italian history, which she had found amongst
Falkenberg's books, and the page at which
she opened it pictured that scene in which
il re galanttLomo contrary to the advice of his
great minister, and other wise and potent
counsellors, had insisted on preserving in the
speech from the throne which he was to utter
on opening parliament, an allusion to the
sufferings of his people, and his own sensibility
to them. That 'cry of anguish'  that gride
di do lore of which the King spoke, has now
become historical. Sara did not remember
even to have read of it before, or, if she
had, she had passed it by, and forgotten it.
What drew her attention to it on this occasion
was a mark in pencil beside the sentence,
and at the foot of the page, on the
margin, the words, in her husband's handwriting
:

Surely a fine subject for a picture, treated
either allegorically or literally.  R. F.'

Sara's hands, with the book in them, sank
gradually, and she raised her face, full of
musing and reflection, towards the clear hilltops,
whose bases and all beneath were
swathed in mist.

It ivotdd make a grand picture,' she
mused, ' for all who knew the allusion. //
ordo di dolor e . . . When Victor Emmanuel
spoke those words they were prophetic of the
release of his people  of their salvation.
There spoke the deliverer. The scene
should not be all a cry of anguish ; there
should be a tone of hope as well. It would
be best treated allegorically, I believe. I
suppose, if I treated it as I should wish, I
should be called narrow and feminine in my
idea. No doubt I should make it personal

  turn Italy into a human being  bring my
own experience to bear upon It  what has

my language been of late but a gride di
colore ; more shame for me, no doubt ! I
wonder how he thought of its being represented.
I wish I knew. Surely any real
representation of the thing should show not
only the lower creature crying aloud in its
agony, but the strong spirit which has heard
its cry and will raise it up.'

Again she looked across towards the hills.
The mist had almost all cleared away. The
river was now perceptible, winding in silver
links towards Coblenz ; the poplars and the
fields, the red-roofed villages and the peaceful
homesteads, all came into view. Upon her
spirit, too, fell a peace which it was long
since she had experienced. She went into
the house, and found that the post had come
in, and that breakfast awaited her. There
was one letter for her, and that was from
Falkenbere. Throwing off her hat and.

o o

shawl, she eagerly opened and read it. It
was from Rio  so far had they progressed in

their wanderings  and it gave her a graphic
account of their recent expeditions, of the
glowing beauty of the Brazilian scenery, and
of the odd, eccentric habits of his companion.


I think you would like him, though. He
has real original genius beneath all his
whimsicalities, and some of his sketches are
masterly.' Then he went on to say that
their movements were undecided ; they did
not know whether to make a further journey
or to return to Europe.

He made many Inquiries after her health,
her pursuits, her happiness, and begged her
to write very soon. ' You cannot tell with
what eagerness I look for your letters. You
will not quarrel with me for saying this, since
1 am such a long way off. Sometimes the
longing to see your face is so Intense that I
feel as if I must start up, and be off then and
there  atcf der s telle ; but do not be dismayed.
The aberration, when it comes, is only temporary.

You need not dread my bursting in
upon you suddenly, without preparation ; that
is, if you will keep me pacified by some more
letters like your last one

She finished it breathlessly, and, as if by a
sudden, irresistible Impulse, pressed the paper
again and again to her lips, with passionate
earnestness.

Oh !' she murmured to herself, ' would
that you were here ! Will anything step
between us ? anything come to keep you and
me apart noir ? I cannot think that the end
of this story will be all that it should be.
And now I shall tremble always, till I see you
and  perhaps even then. Who knows ?'

Later in the forenoon, die felt again irresistibly
impelled to try once more if her old
craft had not come back to her. She took
a canvas, and her palette and brushes, and
tried to sketch in some representation of the
scene which had haunted her ever since she
had seen the pencilled words at the foot of

VOL. III. 17

the page. Again she opened the book, and
again read the words : ' I am not insensible to
the cry of anguish  il giddy di doloie  which
arises from my faithful people in all parts of
my kingdom As she drew her heart beat
ever faster and faster. It was a man's figure
that she outlined ; the figure of a king, it was
intended for  of one who, by nature and by
circumstance, was a ruler. Her crayon moved
more slowly as she tried to infuse into this
figure some of the royalty of bearing and look
with which, in her own mind, she invested
the form of this  deliverer.' When, after a
couple of hours' diligent drawing, the outline
stood out clearly before her, she looked at it,
and saw that it was good ; it tuas kingly,
dignified ; majestic and benevolent too. She
had not failed. She was not to be robbed forever
of her old power. Her art had been
restored to her.

That, she felt, was enough for one day.
She had not been aware with what intense

eagerness she had longed that she might prevail
 that life and skill might be restored to
her hand, until, when she at last saw that ' it
was so she broke down, and burst into a
passion of tears  but tears which, If stormy
at first, soothed and healed in the falling.

It was evening of the same day. Sara sat
down In the quaint old salon. In the flickering
firelight. There was an open English grate in
which pine-logs were burnt, for the appearance
of comfort ; and there was likewise a porcelain
stove to produce the reality of it. She had
sent away the servant who came with lights,
saying she would ring when she wanted them ;
and now, with her cheek propped on her hand,
she sat and ezed Into the fire  into the red
map of the land of dreams. It was Indeed a
vague, aimless dream In which she was lost ;
and yet there was an undercurrent of passion
about It, a solid basis to the vision. That
letter from Rio, which she had had that morning,
which lay open In her hands now, which

172

she had just been reading, and which had
wafted her on its thin pages away from this
place altogether. She pictured to herself tropical
climes and South American forests.
Could he be perhaps wandering with his
friend in the solemn, desolate splendour
and luxuriance of such a forest, even now ?
At least, wherever he was, he was hundreds
of leagues away from her. She had
visions of stately vessels borne onwards by
soft south-western gales  gentle gales. So,
equally, she could see, in the map that was
constantly changing its boundaries by a
process of crumbling, visions of fair and busy
cities  foreign cities, full of pleasure and
gaiety, most beautiful to behold, but all a very
long way off  hundreds, yea, thousands of
miles away.

The great distance, the feeling that if
anyone asked her,  Where is he now ?' she
could only answer, ' I know not !' weighed
her down with an unspeakable despondency.

Then, like a flash of fire across this chill mood
of resignation, darted a longing, intense and
uncontrollable, to have him there, at that very
moment. Oh, if he would but come ! If he
would but come ! Could he not understand
the meaning her last letters had tried to convey
? Could he not read, ' I love you,'
between the lines ? This intense, concentrated
longing for the bodily presence of
some deeply-loved personality is a painful
thing when one longs and goes on longing
in spite of the secure knowledge that no
amount of longing will bring that person to
one. Thus it was with her. She covered
her face with her hands presently, and her
heart throbbed. Did he in this moment
experience half of the same feeling ? If she
could have thought it, she would have felt
almost satisfied.' But how could he ? She
raised her head, and looked round the room
her favourite, because it was into it that he
had led her and Countess Carla, on that far

back, happy red-letter day whose full worth
and meaning she had only within the last
weeks began really to realise.

Could not a miracle happen ?' she thought ;
could not he have followed quickly on the
footsteps of his letter, and  but heaven forgive
my presumption ! Why should such
notice be taken of nef

Even as she thought it, a cloud seemed to
come before her eyes ; her very breath to
stop. Yet she was rising from her chair,
advancing to meet the ghost  to prove the
miracle, which seemed to waver and flicker
before her eyes ; if she touched it, if she
stretched out her hand, or found her voice,
would it not melt away ? Surely it would.
He was in South America. She unsteadily
moved out a hand, as one who gropes in the
dark. But that was no ghost's touch  no
phantom fingers which captured it, drew it,
her other hand, all of her, into a close embrace;
nor was it any unearthly voice which said :

The aberration conquered at last, Sara.
Your last letter came immediately after I had
posted mine to you. I took It to mean that
I miofht come.'

You understood, Rudolf, at last ?'

At last, thickhead that I am, I thought I
understood.'

Ah !' said Sara, * when I saw you come
in, I thought you were of the same nature asa
phantom  a dead man, who visited me last
night, an evil spirit which I exorcised by the
use of your name. I thought I saw your
ghost, Rudolf.'

IX months later Jerome Wellfield
was formally received into the
Roman Catholic Church, in the
large chapel at Brentwood ; and six years
later Nata's child was sent to the college of
that name, there to begin his studies under
the polished and accomplished supervision of
the Fathers of the Society of Jesus.

Green wave the trees to this day over the
river walk of Wellfield Abbey, and placidly
that stream flows past the ruined cloisters,
and under the wooded ' Nab.' The Abbey
farms are as fat, and the Abbey lands as

productive now, as they were in the days of
its proudest fame. Once, years after these
things had happened, a carriage, with a lady
and a gentleman in it, drove through the
village of Wellfield, over the bridge, away
from John Leyburn's house. The persons in
the carriage had been to pay a flying visit to
John Leyburr/s wife. As their carriage
drove slowly up a steep hill just outside the
village, they saw below them to the right the
whole of the Abbey  the river, the avenue,
even the ancient, hoary front of the house,
and the lawn before it. It was a brilliant
July evening, and they saw, slowly walking
about that garden, three figures  that of a tall
man, who held the hand of a slender, graceful-looking
boy, whose face was turned towards
his guide, and beside them, the figure of a
priest, who appeared to be speaking earnestly,
and who raised his hand now and then, as if
to enforce his argument. The two travellers
looked long at this group, and at the slender

shadows they cast upon the dazzling green of
the grass  as long as they could see It, until
a bend in the road shut it all abruptly from
their view : and then they looked, each into
the other's face.

What a life ! What an ignominious
slavery !' observed Falkenberg, with more
than a tinge of contempt in his tone.

If he finds peace in it, Rudolf?'

'He! And what about the poor child
whom your friend was telling us about  what
about his wife ?

*I have often asked myself that question,
and I can find nothing that gives me any
answer to it  neither reliorlon, nor irreligion,
nor faith, nor unfaith. I told you long ago
that Jerome Wellfield was as a dead man tome.
And think of what he must feel himself
dead to, before he could come to this. But
he had no deliverer.'

They became silent until they drove into
Burnham, from which town they were to

take the train to London, on their homeward
way. This was the last glimpse into
Jerome Wellfield's Hfe which Sara ever
obtained or asked for.

she END.

willing A.NU SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTKOTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

7. S. &- Sous.

 Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 045844328
