CHAPTER I.

THEN GOOD-NIGHT, ALAS ! "

One night, late in October, when it was
pitch dark, moonless, starless, and black,
a soft, moist westerly wind, with just a
slant of south in it, was playing a wild
but melodious symphony over the great
stretches of moorland, and across miles of
bleak northern"" country, as it came with a
soft but tremendous rush up a rough, uphill
road, and rising ever into a deeper roar,
seemed to give a leap as it reached the
summit of the long brow, and encountered

a wild, upland sweep, over which it could
and did tear rejoicingly, whistling, calling,
and crying from hill to hill, till it struck
the great blunt, square head of Riverside,
the huge buttress which at that point shuts
off Lancashire from Yorkshire. Smiting
this mighty hill-top, it ruffled the heather,
and laid low the forests of bracken, which
thickly clothed his mighty sides, and tried
to soften the grim outline of his dark head,
and then it tore lustily onwards. There
was joy and hope and life in it, for all its
boisterous roughness.

In the course of its career upwards and
onwards, towards Ravenside, and along
the rough lane just mentioned, it only
encountered one human figure, and that
figure it did not succeed in knocking down.
The time was half-past twelve, midnight ;
the lane was two miles from Hollowed
station, and the solitary who was plodding

along, from the town and towards the
country, was a young man, one Brian
Holgate, who went regularly every week,
during the autumn and winter months, to
the concerts held in the great manufacturing
city some twenty-five miles distant from
Hollowley, and walked at midnight from
that enterprising town to the hamlet of
Thornton-in-Ravenside, or Thornton, as it
was always called  a good three and a
half miles, mostly uphill, and, after the
borough of Hollowley itself was passed,
unlighted by art of man. Whoso wished
for light along that road must carry his
own lantern, but Brian never had recourse
to this assistance. His home, the old
house which belonged to him, and in which
he lived alone. Moor Isles by name, was
at the end of this three and a half miles,
just on the outskirts of the village of
Thornton-in-Ravenside.

He had accomplished more than two
miles of his three and a half, and he
seemed to be in no hurry to get to the
end of his journey. Brian was young 
only just over three and twenty ; it mattered
little to his robust health and untried
nerves, nourished by the keen moorland
air and simple country fare which had all
his life been his portion, if they missed a
night's rest, or half of it, once a week.
Had that one night's exertion been all the
strain which he put upon his youth and
strength, there would have been nothing
in his condition to call for either surprise
or commiseration.

He plodded on, his hands in his pockets,
his long light overcoat flung open at the
chest  for the encounter with the mild
autumn tempest left him warm, not cold.
He knew the way by long experience,
dark as it was ; and it was more unconsciously

than consciously that he turned
now to this side and now to that, to avoid
the Inequalities, or rough and stony bits
of which he was aware. In the road ; pursuing
the easiest, if most irregular, way,
feeling nothing but pleasure and exhilaration
in the roughness of the wind, the
darkness and loneliness of the night.

As he climbed thus homewards, his
voice sounded out on the wings of the
wind ; snatched away sometimes, almost
before it had left his lips ; at others, driven
back into his throat by some capricious
gust. The snatches of melody which this
voice sent forth on an errand to the top
of Ravenslde had certainly never sounded
there before. Ravenslde summit, bald,
square, and bleak, had long ago been a
favourite resort of the unholy community
of wizards, witches, imps, and elves of evil
nature, and of their black master himself 

SO the legend ran, and it was a legend

which no one in Ravenside Forest ever

thought of questioning  it was not told asa

legend, but as a matter of fact, in many

a farmhouse all over that country side.

Details might be had by any ingle, of the

Walpttrgis-nacht orgies and revels of which

that mountain top had been the scene.

Witches had assuredly existed there once ;

had not a waxen image, stuck over with

pins, tumbled one day out of a nook in

the great chimney of Rough Laude, one

of the oldest farms in the vicinity showing

what black arts had been practised there ?

And the strains which now rolled, in a

rich, if not highly cultivated baritone

voice, must, if they ever succeeded in

reaching the summit of the hill, have been

potent to arouse any lingering shades of

olden times which might still hover, or

sleep, or weep there  for they were bound

Up in a tale connected more or less with
these very revels  just now Brian lifted
his head, and sang with all his might, and
with a swing of intense, almost rapturous
enjoyment 

' Towns with their high battlements.
Tower and wall 
Fair maids with their haughty thoughts,
Scorning us all 

To glory they call us.

Soon they both shall fall, shall fall 

Soon they both shall fall.'

Hem  m ! " the voice sank deeper,
and hummed away softly  then took up
snatches. " 'Jam nox stell-a-a-a-ta, velamina
pandit; nunc bibendum et amanda est!
. . hem  m  m ! " Then, in a loud,
triumphant swell, *' ' Gaudeamtis igitur.gau-
deans / . . . Cesare dictus, veni, vidi,
vice. Gatideamus igitur ! '

'grand!" he muttered to himself;
"grand, by Jove! Why does it ever

come to an end ? There dwelt a king
once In Thule "  his voice sank into
melting accents  " pah ! I hate women's
songs in men's voices. She sang it
superbly, though. . . . But, after all, I'm
not sentimental. Felix has it. What a
voice ! what an artist, and  ay, what a
man, surely ! "

And his head swayed to and fro in
remembrance of a wildly rocking measure,
while he sang : 

' Dear Katherine, why
To the door of thy lover
Dearest thou nigh ?
Why there timidly hover ?

' Ah, sweet maiden beware !
Come away, do not enter !
It were folly to venture 
It were folly to venture 
Come away, nor enter there.'

"It's a maddening thing, when it once
gets into your head  if I could sing it like

that ! It's mortally sad, though. How
does it go ?

' Ah, heed thee well, fair lass.
Lest thy lover betray thee 
Thy lover  thy lover betray thee.

' Then good-night, alas !

From ill-hap what shall stay thee ?
Then good-night, then good-night, then goodnight
! ' "

he shouted, giving his voice full swing,
and sending it loose upon the wind. He
sang no more connected phrases, but, ashe
plunged along through the darkness,
kept shooting out disjointed notes, the
burden of it all being still the same 

' Then good-night, alas !

From ill-hap what shall stay thee ?
Then good-night, then good-night, then goodnight
! ' "

It came with a lingering, reluctant, and
long-drawn note, as he glanced aside to
where a small steady light shone through

a window close to the road, and the dim
solid mass of a house seemed to make
Itself almost more felt than seen In the
Inky darkness. He made no mistakes,
but with unerring touch laid his hand on
the latch of a wooden gate, at one side of
the house, and went along a walk shaded
by trees to the front ; for this old house,
like many another built at the same period,
had Its back to the high road, while Its
front rooms looked far away over woods
and fields to the smoky town In the vale,
Hollowley, justly so called, and, beyond
the smoke, to where there stood another
circle of blue sentinel moors.

Brian had a key to his own front door.
As he fitted it Into the lock, a joyful
whimpering greeted him from within, and,
when he pushed the door open, there
emerged from a parlour on the right hand
a superb silky collie, fawning, waving his

tail, welcoming, with shining eyes and
affectionate curves of his beautiful body,
his careless, but never unkind lord and
master.

Hey, Ferran ! " said Brian, kindly, ashe
patted the creature's head for a moment,
then shut the door, and followed it into
the room, where a red fire burnt low 
where a table was spread with some simple
eatables, and where a lamp was shining
steadily. An old-fashioned, wooden-bottomed
chair with a rounded back stood
near the fire, and on the chair lay a fiddle-case.
The collie went up to this chair
and sat down before it, and looked at
Brian, with a wag of his tail and a shrewd
smile, as if to say, '' Here I've been ever
since you left, and it's all safe and sound.
You can look and see."

Good lad ! " said the young man,
absently, as he turned the lamp a little

higher, cut a slice off the piece of cheese,
and a junk from the loaf, and, seizing a
bottle, poured some brandy into a tumbler,
and added cold water to it. And still he
seemed unable to rid himself of the air
and of the words which haunted him ; still
he kept softly singing : 

'Then good-night, alas !

From ill-hap what shall stay thee ?

Then good-night, then good-night, then good-night ! ' "

He bean to eat, but did not make
much progress with it  lifted the tumbler
to his lips, then set it down again.

Nay," he murmured to himself. He
had something of a habit of talking to
himself, as solitaries have, now and then.
'' That doesn't go down after this night's
music. How I wish I always felt like
this ! "

And, leaving the table, he drew forward
a music-stand, and opened a score, and

with loving hands drew the fiddle from its
case, and laid it affectionately against his
breast. But before beginning to play, he
went to the window, and opened it wide,
and then, seating himself once more, drew
the bow across the strings, and with that
one action, and the sound that resulted,
proved, to any that might have had ears
to hear, the touch and the soul of a born
musician.

For a very long time Ferran and he and
the fiddle had it all to themselves. It was
after three when at last, with a reluctant
sigh, he replaced the noble old instrument
in its case, shut the window, turned out the
lamp, and with the violin case in his hand,
and Ferran at his heels, combed up the
narrow stair of his old house, to his room
and to his bed. Scarcely had he laid his
head upon his pillow, after hearing Ferran,
with a long, satisfied sigh compose himself

on the mat outside, than he fell asleep, of
course, but even as he lost consciousness
the words still lingered on his lips 

From ill-hap what shall stay thee ?
Then good-night, then good-night, then good-night!"

CHAPTER II.

ALICE Ordered.

Long before Brian elongate awoke on the
morning after his concert, his neighbours
at the farm, and Sarah Stott, his old
retainer and housekeeper and his solitary
indoor servant, were up and doing. A
lovely autumn morning had followed on
the gusty damp night  only enough of the
late gale remained to blow away the mist
and fogs from about the ridges and tops of
the moors and hills.

At half-past ten in the forenoon life and
the business of the day were In full swing
at '* Ormerod's farm," occupied by Farmer
John Ormerod, his daughter Alice, his

VOL. I. 2

cripple son Andrew, and their helps and
retainers, consisting of a stalwart, rosy-cheeked
country lass of twenty, in the
house ; and sundry men and boys without :
herds, hinds, helps, and such as pertain to
the outdoor workings of a moderately-sized,
and prosperous grazing farm, for little
grain flourished anywhere in that bleak
country.

Travelling over the high road along
which Brian had last night trudged so late,
one arrived first at the back door of Moor
Isles, his own house. At one side, a gate
opened into a walk, with the house side on
the left, and on the right a high stone wall
with trees of a very fair growth for that
part of the country, hanging in a pleasantly
shaded manner above the walk, and making
an arch overhead. Turning to the left
one came to the front of the house, with
Its door in the middle, its window on

either side ; three windows above, and
three small arched ones higher again. It
was built of gray stone, this little unpretentious
old country mansion ; the door
and windows were painted a spotless white,
there was a gleaming brass knocker, and
a little flight of worn stone steps, always
washed very clean, and with the edges
skilfully whitened by the careful hand of
Sarah Stott. No one was stirring about
the front at this hour. The house looked
due south, and there was a Dijon rose
climbing round one of the windows, with
still a few belated blossoms left. Some
asters of different colours were in the
borders just beneath the windows. The
garden sloped rather steeply from this
little terrace in front of the house. First
came strawberry beds, then a level of grass
with a walk all round it, and one across
the middle. In each oblong of grass stood

a tall, spindly old rhododendron bush, and
another flight of steps led to the last and
largest portion of the garden, which was
well stocked with such fruit trees as will
yield produce in so northern and bleak
a climate  raspberries, gooseberries, and
currants chiefly, and a few hardy apple
trees dotted here and there. It was all
very small, very homely and unpretending,
but It had a eenlal look in all weathers  it
bore the aspect of a home, and it shared,
with one human being, the deepest and
interest affection of Brian Holgate's heart.
There was a great view from the front
of the house, of the smoky town of
Hollowley, with its endless forest of tall
chimneys, and beyond them more ridges
of moor. Moor Isles (probably a corruption
of Moor Holes, or Holes) had descended
from father to son of the Holgates for
generations, and before it another and a

smaller dwelling had stood on the same
site, and had belonged to the family for
several hundred years.

But to return to the high road. Close
beside the gate leading into Brian's garden
beneath the wall of his garden, in fact 
ran a deep, rough lane  a *' cow-lane "
leading to the pastures where Ormerod's
cattle lived and moved, and had their
being, and serving as their road when they
came up to the farmyard to be milked.
The farm itself was just on the other side
of this lane, on a level with Brian's house
and garden. A high wall divided the
farmyard also from the lane, and it too
was a pleasant, genial spot, with its deep
stone porch leading into a grand country
kitchen, from which access was obtained
to a staircase and a parlour, the latter
seldom used, but not quite so ghastly in
appearance as most parlours of that class.

But with the parlour we have nothing todo.
Here, in this huge raftered kitchen,
with its stone floor, its vast cavernous fireplace
and ingle ; its adjuncts of dally use,
harmoniously blended into a homely beauty ;
its cosy nooks, its broad, low windows and
deep window-seats  here are the objects
of interest for us.

A young woman and a youth were the
only occupants of the warm, cosy place.
Fine though the day was, there were dark,
shadowy corners in this great kitchen, and
the firelight flickered gaily in them, though
It was but eleven o' the clock before midday.


Alice Ormerod, the ruler and mistress of
the farm, was standing at a dresser which
was in front of one of the windows, and
she was busy with flour and butter and
milk ; a baking-board and a rolling-pin
were in constant requisition, and an array

of pie-dishes before her were piled up with
fine damsons, all glittering from the bowl
of water in which she had been stirring
them round to cleanse their skins. Andrew,
her brother, sat at a little round table in
another of the windows looking south, and
nearer to the fireplace. He looked small
and crumpled up ; his crutch was beside
him  a book and papers, pen and ink
before him on the table. And at the
moment they were silent.

No greater contrast could well have .
been imagined than that offered by this
brother and sister. Alice was twenty-three,
and Andrew was twenty years of
age. She was tall, strong, and perfectly
made ; she possessed a frame so justly
proportioned and so harmoniously finished,
that one did not realize at first that she
was what might be called a big woman.
Upright as a dart, and without any stiffness

of carriage, her movements were free
and graceful. Her lilac print gown was
made with great simplicity, but had some
pretensions to shape and cut, and fitted
closely over the nobly sweeping shoulders
and beautiful bust. Her figure was more
that of a Diana than of a Hebe, Venus,
or Juno  spare, though not lean ; with
admirable, strong muscles playing beneath
her fair, healthy skin, and firm, not too
abundant flesh. And the face that went
with this figure was the face of a brune,
with rich subdued red glowing through the
clear olive skin, tanned nut-brown by the
busy out-of-doors life of the summer and
harvest time ; dark, straight eyebrows,
over eyes of a deep fine gray, and long
black lashes ; a mass of straight, glossy
hair, brown, not black  a most distinct,
decided brown, silky and smooth, with
here and there a tawny reflection where it

caught the sunlight ; and a noble, steady,
kindly mouth, with capacity for sternness,
for pathos, for invective or persuasion  for
everything except lies or meanness. A
chin, strong but not coarse, finished off
this face well, and the whole head was seton
a round, firm throat, which just now
was browned by the sun and air.

The details are the details of a beauty's
appearance, but Alice Ormerod did not
strike one as being a beauty, though handsome
she undoubtedly was. Perhaps it .
was the spirit within, which, being nobler
than its frame, caused one to think less of
her beautiful face and form in particular
than of the general effect of health and
strength, rightheadedness, steady daylight
of mind and spirit. Be that as it may, she
had certainly all the beauty, all the health
and strength for both of them. Poor
Andrew had been a cripple from his birth,

and suffered sadly from an infirmity of the
spine which, while not amounting to an
acute disease, was sufficient to keep him
in such pain for hours, and even days and
nights at a time, as quite to incapacitate
him for active work of any kind.

Perhaps one should except active mental
work. The lad's brain was quick enough ;
and he could never be kept too busy with
books and studies. He was deep now in
some zoological work of a popular kind,
busily making notes, and trying to answer
questions for an examination paper, and
happily unconscious for the time that he
had a weak back and a short leg, and that
he could not move without a crutch.

So they kept one another company 
silent, but in the best of harmony and
sympathy  the fire crinkled and sparkled ;
the great clock ticked ceaselessly. Andrew
studied the characteristics of the somewhat

Insipid protozoa, and Alice deftly mixed
and rolled paste, tucked It over one pie-dish
after another, and now and then tried
to hum a tune  not very successfully, and
yet, perhaps, a highly sympathetic ear
might have detected a resemblance in her
somewhat tuneless murmur to Brian's
stave of the night before 
Then good-night, then good-night, then good-night 1"

The murmur suddenly died Into silence
as footsteps became audible on the flags
of the yard outside ; then a figure stopped
before the window and smiled at her, and
Brings voice wished her good morning.

Good day, Brian," said she, in a clear
loud voice. *' Don't stand in my light,
but find your way in, if you've anything
to say."

*' I have so," he answered, in an emphatic
tone, as he passed to the door.

In the momentary interval Alice drew

a deep breath, and exhaled a prolonged,
noiseless sigh. Her fingers manipulated
one particular piece of pie-crust with great
vigour, and then  the door was opened,
and Brian, with his frank, handsome face,
his blue eyes, and his sunny hair and
moustache, " fresh as paint "  to use his
own expression  and looking no whit the
worse for his late hours, lifted the latch
and walked in. Andrew roused from his
absorbing interest in his study, and looked
up, his face brightening.

Eh, good morning ! " said he.

Good morning, Andrew. How are
you, old chap ? Hard at work over your
learned books ! I never did see such a
fellow as you are. Good morning, Alice,"
with a very pleasant smile upon the
young woman. " Do I interrupt ? "

Not that I know of, if you'll mind
what you're doing," she said, in rather a

crisp tone. '' Sit you down there in th'
rocker, and let's hear what it's all about."

''Oh, I can't tell you from all that
distance off!" he said, disdaining the
proffered rocking-chair, and drawing near
to the dresser. He seated himself, wrong
way about, on one of the wooden-bottomed
chairs, clasped his hands over the top rail
of its back, and looking up at her, with
an expression composed of mirth, dismay,
and doubt, remarked tersely  

'' Eh, I am in a fix, Alice. I'm fairly at .
my wits' end."

'' Why, what now ? " she asked with
seeming indifference. " Whatever have
you been doing ? Not "

She paused, looking at him, the rolling-pin
in her hands, arrested on its way to
the layer of paste on the baking board.

Nay," he answered her, with a smile,
as he looked straight into her eyes ;

"nothing o' the sort this time. I didn't
even drink a drop of brandy-and-water
before I went to bed. And I was up late,
too."

*' Ay, you were so," she replied. " I heard
your fiddle at after one in the morning."

-Why "

Yes ; you always throw open the
window, and I always sleep with mine
open, you know, and I woke up," she went
on, a little more quickly, " I woke up, and
thought It must be getting on for morning,
and then all at once I heard your fiddle
going, and you were playing, too."

*' To be sure ! " he cried, waving his
hand, and trolling forth 

"towns with their high battlements,
Tower and wall !
Fair maids with their haughty thoughts
Scorning us all !

To glory they call us,
Soon they both shall fall' "

You hear that, AHce Ormerod ? ' Soon
they bo-both shall fall.' By George ! what
a concert It was last night ! "

*' If that's a song you heard, It sounds
heathenish enough. Pray, Is that In one
of your operas ? "

'' Not an opera  no. That comes from
a piece called ' The Damnation of Faust,'
by a Frenchman, Hector Berlioz ! Ay,
that's music ! "

'well, that was what I heard you at,
I suppose ; and I then heard the clock on .
the stairs strike two In the morning, and
then I went to sleep again."

*' That was a sensible thing to do. But
you haven't heard what trouble Fm in.
'Jan nox stella  stell-a-a-ta! "

*' You sound as If you were," she retorted.
'' I haven't any time to waste.
What Is it that's wrong ? "

"In this wonderful piece of music you

must know there are four principal singers
a lady and three gentlemen. The lady
sings soprano, the gentlemen tenor, baritone,
and bass. Well, you know, I've
heard it before, and I've heard them in it
before. I know two or three of the
musicians In Mr. Warburton's band  a
little, not much," he went on, modestly.
They are very kind to me. They give
me hints about my voice sometimes, and
about my fiddle too."

'* They call your voice a baritone, too,
don't they ? " asked Alice, striving not to
look excessively pleased and Interested.

"Yes, they do. And this man who
sings the baritone part in ' Faust '  the
wicked spirit's part  Mephistopheles, he's
called, If you want to know "

Meph-Is-toph-eles. I shall try to
remember that. Well, what of him ? "

*' What of him ? " echoed the young

man, pausing ; and then, with a face eager
with excitement, and with the ready tears
of his emotional temperament rushing to
his eyes, though they did not overflow 
why, he's simply splendid. There never
was such a man as Felix  his real name
is Felix Arkwright  but, you know, they
often twist their names about a little for
public purposes ; but that doesn't matter,"
he added, finishing his rapid parenthesis
" that's nothing to do with it ; ' he's
simply the rarest man in the world ! '
That's Shakespeare  you haven't read
Shakespeare ? But that's what he is.
The greatest artist, and the finest gentleman,
and young, quite young. Why do
you cast your eyes down in that way, and
look displeased ? You know nothing
about it  how can you ? " he concluded,
pettishly, falling from his rhapsody into a
huff.

VOL. I. 3

*' I'm not displeased," she said, but there
was gravity In her tones. " He must bea
very wonderful man. If he's all that.
But what does It all lead to ? "

What does It all lead to ? Why, to
this. Last night I was Introduced to him
in the interval between the two parts of
the concert  and he shook hands with me,
and said he'd heard about my voice  and
my violin  from Brown, you know, one of
the second violins, who knows him. He
has been very kind to Brown."

'' And is that a trouble to you ? "

Nay ; I never was so proud and pleased
in my life. I tell you, when he looked at
me with those eyes of his, and spoke tome
so open and so kind, I fairly trembled.
I felt so small beside him. And yet,
before we parted, I had  what do you
suppose, now, Alice and Andrew, that I
had done ? "

*' Offered to sing to him, perhaps ? "
suggested Andrew, while Alice smiled.

'* Andy, I'll give you something to
remember me by, if you don't mind.
Offered to sing to him, indeed! I'm not
quite made up of self-conceit. No, but I
had invited him to come out here and seeme."


This news, when at last it came, had its
full effect. His auditors were silent In
awe and astonishment. Though belonging
to a musical and music-loving race, neither
Alice nor her brother had the musical
faculty, and their sole ideas on the subject
were derived from what they had heard at
local musical gatherings. Brian, with his
wild enthusiasm on the subject, his fiddle,
his voice, his persevering attendance at
the great Irkford concerts through all
weathers and at all times, was a great
mystery to them. But he was their friend,

their delight, and their admiration ; their
gallant young neighbour, who was a
favourite In spheres of which they knew
nothing, and who yet was always to
them the same genuine, simple, brotherly
creature ; and they received his dictum on
all such matters as a final one. If Brian
had said this or that about anything relating
to music. It was so. There was no
appeal. He had said that this Felix was
the rarest man In the world  the greatest
artist, the finest gentleman.

Of course he knew all about It, and if
he had Invited this admirable Crichton to
come and see him, of course that was an
Important matter. It was Alice who first
recovered presence of mind enough to
say 

Eh, did you though ? And what did
he say ? "

He said he would come tomorrow."

*swell, that's all right."

*' He doesn't often have the time for
such things. He's singing again to-night,
at Bolton, or somewhere there, but
nowhere on Saturday  not because he
hadn't been asked, you may be sure, but
because he didn't choose. He preferred
to take a holiday. And sometimes he
likes to go off quietly to out-of-the-way
places, where no one knows him, and he
heard that Moor Isles was such a place,
and I told him it would be the proudest
day of my life if he would come. And he
said, ' It's exceedingly kind of you. I will
come with pleasure.' And he asked me
not to ask any one to meet him."

'' And of course it was easy enough to
agree to that," said Alice.

'' Ay. But that isn't all ; for when we'd
arranged it all, he stopped and thought a
minute, and then he said, ' Would it bean

abuse of your hospitality'"  Brian raised
himself up, and put on a commanding air,
which impressed them very much  '' ' if I
were to bring two ladies with me ? ' "

'' Eh, my sakes ! Lasses ! That's a
different story," cried Andrew, intensely
interested.

Not a bit of it, lad. It's only a continuation
of the same story. I said, ' Sir,
as many of your friends as you choose to
bring shall be welcome in my house as
flowers in May.' He smiled most kindly,
and said, * Oh, I am not altogether unconscionable.
But I know it would be a
very great pleasure to these ladies if I
might bring them with me.' And, of
course, I said that my pleasure in seeing
them would be beyond description. So
they're coming."

*' I wonder if they're singers, too,"
speculated Andrew, while Alice was silent.

not looking quite so brilliantly pleased as
she had been a moment ago. *' Them
singing ladies, I've heard," pursued the
youth reflectively, "are that full of airs
and graces, there's no holding them, and
wherever they go, they must have porter
and cream mixed, to drink."

** I know nothing about that. If they
want porter, there's plenty at my house ;
and if they want cream, I suppose there's
some here that won't be grudged me."

'well, but," interposed Alice, rather
abruptly, " It seems to me like as if we
were a long while in getting to the point,
if there is any. If you've asked them, and
they're coming, and you think so much of
them, where's your trouble ? "

Oh, Alice ! it isn't me," said the young
man, his voice suddenly changing, and a
shade of something like despair settling on
his face" it isn't me. It's Sarah Stott."

There was a pause, and then Alice,
laying down her rolling-pin, leaned against
the lintel of the window and laughed 
laughed till the tears ran down her face.
Andrew joined in a more moderate manner
in the mirth, and Brian, his arms still
folded on the back of the chair, looked
from one to the other, with a gloom
of expression which nothing seemed to
lighten.

It's all very well, Alice," said he, " for
you, that are young and strong, and
mistress of all around you, to laugh. But
what would Andy do, I'd like to know,
if he wanted to have his friends, and he'd
a Sarah Stott, that sat down in the kitchen
rocking-chair, and told him it couldn't be
done ? "

Couldn't be done ! " repeated Alice,
her laughter suddenly ceasing. 'what
couldn't be done ? "

** I'd totally forgotten her when I gave
the invitation ; and when I told her this
morning, instead of rising to the occasion,
and trying to think what could be done,
she just gets into a temper, and, as I tell
you, she sat herself down in the rocking-chair,
and she says, 'You've gone and
invited all these folk at a moment's notice,
without asking me a word about it  people
as it'll take a week to prepare for properly.
It can't be done,' she says. 'You may as
well send 'em word at once as it can't be
done. / shall none be ready for 'em.'
And she'll be as good as her word. You
know Sarah Stott, Alice ;. you know what
she can be, when she takes it into her
head," he added piteously.

Ay, I do so," Alice assented. " Sarah
is a good servant, but a bad master.
You've let her get the mastery, Mr. Brian,
and she makes you feel it. In her proper

place she's all right, but she can be as
spiteful as any one I know. Are they
coming just for the day, these people ? "

'that's all. I said I could find them
bed and board If they liked, but Mr. Felix
said they were all engaged on the Sunday.
So they'll be here about one  not before,
and I guess they can't stay much after six,
if they want to get back in decent time.
And I did think as that could have been
managed. Mr. Felix has seen a deal of
grand doings and fine folk, but he's so
simple and nice  he'll not turn up his nose
at anything. And I'm sure the ladles will
be equal to him, whoever they may be.
But you might as well say so to that pie-dish
as to Sarah, when once she's made
up her mind against a thing. I don't
know what in the world I'm to do," he
added dejectedly ; and he presented the
spectacle of a strong man in bondage to a

female yoke  the sad, but not uncommon
sight  a master the slave of an ancient
retainer. " I never thought, till she took
it in that way, but what it could have been
managed," he said sorrowfully.

Where were now the war-like ditties
and the mystic serenades ? Where the
pride of his youth and his manhood ?
Prostrate and paralyzed before the ultimatum
of Sarah Stott !

"And it can and shall be managed,"
said Alice, suddenly and decisively. She*
pushed her baking-board aside, and sat
down in a chair opposite to him. Her
face was flushed ; her eyes bright ; her
breath came quickly. She looked the
embodiment of strength, resolution, and
the capacity to carry out her designs.
** Put Sarah Stott out of your head. You
shall have your friends over, and they
shall want for nothing."

*' Eh, Alice ! " exclaimed her brother ;
while Brian looked at her in wonder and
gradually dawning delight, with parted lips
and dilating eyes.

Alice  what do you mean ? You can't
make her do it. You can't make her set
to, and cook things, however few  and I
don't hold with making a great display,
beyond what you can justly afford. You
can't make her get out the best silver and
polish it up a bit, and the glasses and
things, and those old Indian dinner things,
and all that ; and you can't make her clean
herself up a bit, and put the things on the
table and hand them round civilly  and
that's all I ask, and all that's necessary.
But you can't make her do it," concluded
the young man, in a tone which showed
that the iron had entered into his soul.

No," said Alice, in a voice of suppressed
excitement. " I know that. No

power on earth can move an obstinate old
woman as wants to vex you. I can't
make her do it. But I can do it myself."

'' Bi' the mass, Alice, thou art a rare
un ! " cried Andrew, in an ecstasy of
delight, as he thumped his crutch on the
floor, and looked with rapture at his strong,
handsome sister.

Brian's face flushed as he looked at her.
He stammered out, " I never thought of
such a thing  never ! You may take my
word for it. And I don't see how that-can
be, Alice. You're my friend, not my
servant."

'rand what's a friend good for, if they
can't do a deal better than a servant, if
needs be ? " she retorted. '' I tell you,
I'm going to do it. If Sarah Stott thinks
her crabbed temper is going to succeed in
making you look inhospitable  sending
word to people not to come, when you've

invited them ! " she cried, in great excitement
 '* if she thinks that, she's just mistaken,
that's all. That's not our way at
Thornton  to ask people to see us, and
then tell 'em we find we can't do with
them. How could you ever look this
great singing gentleman in the face again ?
And, besides, I'm fain to see them. It'll
be something quite new for us, won't it,
Andy ? Nay, nay ! They shall come,
and, as far as country fashion goes, they
shall find nothing wanting. Trust me ! "

And, indeed, she looked as if she were
to be trusted. Brian jumped from his
chair, and seized her hand and squeezed it.

You are a true friend, Alice  you are
so. Till you promised this, I didn't know
how much I'd set my heart on having
them. I'll never forget your goodness."

'' Oh, there's nothing so much to remember,
as I can see ! Now, just listen,

and then you must be off, for I shall have
plenty to do. They will come at one, you
say. Well, I reckon by half-past they'll
be ready for their dinner "

** I fancy they call it lunch," he suggested
deferentially.

*' They may call It what they please, so
long as it's there for them. They shall
have a leg of roast mutton  small  one as
has hung for nearly a week, as would give
a dying man an appetite. Then they shall
have some partridges  I know how to
cook partridges  and a plum pie, and a
custard, and an egg pudding  yes, they'll
get no better anywhere, though I say it.
And then some apples and nuts, and some
preserved ginger, and some other things
that I know of  and a cake. And you
have wine  very good wine. What should
they want better than that, I'd like to
know } "

Nothing," said he fervently ; " and I
tell you, they'll like It just as well as if It
was at the Prince of Wales's own table.
And, Alice, there's just one thing I'd ask
you as a favour, for I'm not going to
pretend that I won't let you do this for me
just one."

And what's that?" she asked graciously.

*' If they may have some coffee the
minute they've done. I know they like
that. I happened once to overhear "

Coffee and cream they shall have,"
said Alice. '* There's your mother's silver
coffee service, and there's the old thin red
and white china. That's all right. Then,
before they go, some tea, with some jam,
and eggs, and tea-bread. That's quite
simple. Now, you go back to your house,
and, if Sarah says anything to you, just
don't answer her. Don't for the world tell
her of this. I'll look In upon her after

I've cleared our dinner out of the way.
And you'd better come and take some
dinner with us to-day, Brian. Sarah shall
never have It to say that there wasn't a
clear field for preparing for them And
leave the rest to me."

'' You are good," he repeated ; and then;
with an uneasy look, '' But, Alice, I can't
abide the Idea of your setting things on
the table, and handing them round. I
shall just feel "

*' All that you've got any call to feel Is,
that when I say I'll do a thing, I mean todo
It myself, and to do It well. You must
leave everything to me, and it'll be all
right."

'' It will, Mr. Brian  It will, indeed,"
Andrew assured him earnestly.

'' I know It will," said Brian, in a slow,
solemn voice of deep conviction. '' And I
shall be thankful to her for ever."

VOL. I. 4

** Well, now I must clear these pies out
of the way. And you slip In here at half-past
twelve for some dinner. My word !
see how times flying. It's nearly twelve
now. Sarah Stott, indeed ! " she concluded,
seizing a cloth and wrenching open the
oven door.

Brian, grateful, but still embarrassed,
moved towards the door.

"Then I'll say nothing about It to
her?"

Nothlnof In the world. Leave It tome,"
seemed to come from the depths of
the oven.

And Brian, with a nod to Andrew
and a " See you again soon, lad," went
out.

Left alone, the brother and sister were
silent for a little while, till Alice again said
In emphatic tones, '' Those old servants
get beyond all bounds. I'll Sarah Stott

her ! The idea o' setting herself up in
that way. Brian's far too indulgent to
her."

"Well," observed Andrew, in an impartial
tone, *' there's no doubt but he'd
have been poorly off without thee, Alice,
this time. But 1 tell thee one thing, lass.
I hope he'll keep, or be kept from going
near Barracloughs' between now and tomorrow."


'' I don't think he'll go near Barracloughs,
if Barracloughs don't come near him,"
Alice decided, after a pause of consideration.
'anyhow, I'm not going to fash
myself about that. My business is to
make up for Sarah Stott's bad behaviour,
and I mean to, I tell you, I do so ! "

As she made this announcement, she
raised herself from a slightly stooping
position over the oven, the heat of which
had perhaps given an extra brightness to

Library

 Illinois

the red In her cheeks. Be that as It may,
she happened to meet Andrew's eyes fixed
upon her, as he Hstened, with great approval,
and. It would seem, with something
else as well, for there was a queer,
humorous look in his eyes, and a shrewd
smile upon his big, not Ill-natured mouth ;
and as Alice's colour rose still higher
under his scrutinizing gaze, he observed,
speculatively 

'' Poor Sarah Stott ! She's getting to
be an old woman now. I guess she
couldn't have been so young, even when
you were a baby, Alice. I wonder If she
ever had a lover."

*' Lover ! " retorted his sister, In an Indescribable
tone. " Thou's sat too long
over thy books. What's lovers got to do
with It, In the name of goodness ? "

And with that, without waiting for a
reply, she went out of the kitchen, and

imperatively summoned some distant invisible
" Lizzy " to her aid.

Andrew smiled, and turned again to the
books, over which, she said, he had sat too
long.

CHAPTER III.

Brian's antecedents.

It boots not here to relate how the pacification
of Sarah Stott was accomplished in
one single encounter between herself and
Alice Ormerod. Suffice it to say that the
said pacification was effected, and that
thoroughly ; that the crabbed ancient
retainer, who had been Brian's mother's
servant during the first years of her
married life, and her mistress during the
last years of that life, and who of course
felt, in consequence, that she might do or
not do exactly as she pleased in the son's
house  this rebellious vassal was subdued
from rank insubordination into a kind of

ungracious submission, and while assisting
Alice to the best of her power in the
preparations for the morrow, had to
content herself with a continuous undercurrent
of grumbling at the changed conditions
of things since the old days, and of
despairing wondering as to what would or
would not *' happen next." As to Brian,
with the cowardice characteristic of his sex
in such emergencies, he fulfilled Alice's
behest to the letter, and said nothing to
Mrs. Stott. His whole mind was set on-the
promised visit of these strangers  he
was quite conscious that probably, after it
was all over, his frenchwoman would make
him pay somehow for having carried his
point in the present, but that was a matter
for future consideration and suffering. Just
now, he had the comfortable conviction
that his friend Alice was a host in herself,
and that under her direction all would go

well. He offered to make himself useful
in any way that might be thought desirable,
but he took care never to be left alone
with Sarah. For all her conquered state
there was a rebellious glare In her eye now
and then, which made him thankful for
the protection of Alice's presence. That,
however, would be withdrawn when she
had to return to the farm in the evening,
but she had provided for this contingency
also, and invited him to go back with her,
and sup with them.

'' Why, I'm fairly living at your house ! ''
he cried. " I think I'd better go somewhere
else. I'd thought of calling in to

see Jim Barraclough, and "

"Now, dont !'' Alice said to him, in a
sweet persuasive voice, and she laid her
hand, shapely, if roughened and reddened
by its daily toil, upon his arm, and looked
at him.

As they stood thus, it might well have
occurred to an observant mind, with a
turn for analogies, that the young man was
a vacillating, tempted human soul, and
that the young woman who looked at him
with her clear, steady eyes was his good
angel, drawing him back from some
danger. So strong she looked, so handsome,
and so winning in her panoply of
maiden modesty and daring combined, that
the idea, " Surely he must love her," could
hardly have failed to occur to any well-regulated
mind.

Don't go there  for this one night,"
she said pleadingly. In quite a different tone
from any she ever used to him when others
were by. '' Come to us, and stay with us."

** You never like me to go to Barra-ploughs
he said restive. " You are
never yourself about them, Alice, and I
can't imagine why."

"Well, we'll say I'm not," she replied,
but with no look of intending to relinquish
her purpose. '' Never mind that. Barra-sloughs
are always here, and so am I.
You can see them, or we can talk about
them, any time. Your friends are coming
tomorrow  this gentleman that you think
so much of, and two ladies. Now, Brian,
don't 2:0 to BarraclouQhs'. You know
what I mean."

I do know, Alice," he said suddenly ;
and you're right, as you generally are. I
won't go to them. I'll go with you, because
you're good to me, and, what's more, it
makes me feel good myself to be with you."

Now, that's good of yoti-/' she said,
with a little, almost imperceptible, shake in
her voice. " But I thought you would.
Bring your fiddle and give us a tune.
Andy and father will be fain to listen.
You know they always are."

He nodded. '' I'll get it," he said, and
went off upstairs to seek it.

Alice seized the opportunity to say to
Sarah Stott, in a rapid undertone 

"If any o' those Barracloughs come,
Sarah, and ask for him, he's out, but you
can't tell them where. Do you understand
? "

On this point the old woman and the
girl were one and undivided.

'' Ay, I understand fast enough, and
they'll none get to know from me heros
he is," she said ; and then Brian returned
with his fiddle, and he and Alice stepped
across to the farm, where a glorious fire
filled the great kitchen with a ruddy,
dancing light, and where Andrew was
waiting for them with a joyful greeting.

They all passed a sociable, happy evening,
talking, listening to Brian's music, and
his accounts of the fine things he heard

and saw and did when he visited the great
city to the south-west, and of many other
things, and at eleven o'clock he went
home decently enough, never even asked
if any Barracloughs had been near, and
after playing to himself for a short time,
went to his bed, and fell asleep, filled with
great anticipations for the morrow.

Eh, but yon's a decent lad enough,
when he gets into the rest company," said
Farmer Ormerod, when Brian had gone.
'' It's a real pity as he has nothing to do 
no bit of work as he needs must attend to.
It would be th' savin' on him if he had 
keep him out o' bad company, and o' the
rest on't."

The reflective silence of his son and
daughter gave consent to this statement.

Brian Holgate had been left an orphan
some five or six years ago. He had been
the only child of his parents, who were of

that class of which a few remnants linger,
scattered here and there over the land 
people who had once been more considerable
both as to property and position, but
who had contrived to retain their old
family dwelling-house, and enough property
in land, farms, and sound investments to
brings in an income more than enough to
absolve them from the necessity of working
for their bread. Brian had inherited from
them the old house itself, the only home
he had ever known, and property to the
amount of something over three hundred a
year. He and his people were strictly
provincial, strictly rural, and rural Lancashire,
at that, in all their ways and habits.
They had never been in the habit of
gadding about. His father had never
been farther afield than to Irkford and
Blackpool  to the first of which he had
been known once or twice to repair on the

occasion of some great and solemn public
festivity, while to the latter he had gone
several times for the benefit of the sea air
a briny atmosphere matching In strength
that which played about the bleak moors
amongst which he usually lived. Mrs.
Holgate had been rather more of a traveller.
In her young days (so the record ran) she
had spent some three months In London,
drinking as deeply of the cup of amusement
and dissipation as was commensurate
with visiting a very proper and steady-going
family of dissenting relatives. She
had also, at different times, visited different
parts of her native country, and had even
taken a jaunt to the Lakes once with
Brian, when he was a very little boy. But
even that can scarcely be said In these
days to constitute extensive travel.

And, so far as was known, Mr. and Mrs.
Holgate both took very much after their

respective forefathers, who, though in
nowise blood connections, had Heed near
together, always on the same spot, had
done the same things, thought the same
thoughts, and steadily vegetated on, in
exactly similar lines, for many generations.
It may perhaps be credited that to such
a couple their own son Brian came as a
great, and not always agreeable surprise,
with his mercurial temperament, his extraordinary
love for music, his sudden furies,
and equally sudden meetings back into
sweetness  his picturesque beauty of face
and figure, and his general instability of
purpose as regarded the keeping of the
conventionalities as practised in Ravenside
Forest. Where had he come from, this
anomalous creature ? How had he ever
come from them  that was the thing 1
Was he intended as a cross, or as a blessing
in disguise  very much in disguise 

And how was he to be brought up ?
Obviously, there was but one answer to
that  as his father before him had been
brought up. It never occurred to them to
try and find out whether treatment a Httle
different from what had been given them
might not be better suited to this so
obviously different child of theirs. On the
contrary, with the rigidity peculiar to that
mould of mind, they saw quite clearly that
the same kind of treatment, intensified,
might have the desirable effect of making
their black swan into a white one. Sarah
Stott, who was an oracle to both of them,
had also pronounced strongly in favour of
this line of treatment, and accordingly, the
eager,, excitable lad, with his head full of
dreams and fancies, and his throat full of
melody, had been sent to the rough
Hollowley grammar school, and kept there,
amongst the rudest of the rude, the hardest.

toughest, and most unsympathetic of surroundings,
until a serious illness, brought
on by exposure one day when he had
played truant to read poetry in the woods,
had aroused his parents to the stern conviction
that in thus persisting they were
only  throwing their money away, A
council of war was held, in a somewhat
aggrieved spirit, which ended in his being
allowed to go to the vicar of 
to read with him, daily. They
all shook their heads over this innovation,
and were not too well pleased when, indirect
contradiction to their croaking prophecies,
a distinct improvement soon
became visible in the lad's spirits, health,
and whole appearance. The vicar was a
lonely man, and an ardent musician himself,
and when he died, which happened
when Brian was about seventeen, he left
him his violin, which, so his will stated,

VOL. I. 5

was a genuine Amatl. Brian alone had
any appreciation of the value of the legacy ;
his parents thought a fiddle an odd kind of
thing to leave to any one.

Since his nineteenth year he had been
left pretty much to his own devices, which,
as we have seen, led him into the vicinity
of as much music as he could conveniently
or inconveniently, manage to hear. He
had gradually become acquainted, through
faithful and persevering attendance at the
concerts, with some few members of the
orchestra, and for a short time he had
taken lessons from '' Brown, of the second
violins," of whom he had spoken to Alice,
with the results already made known, and
perhaps with some others, potential, if not
actual ; aspirations, vague wishes and
longings for a kind of life which he had
hardly pictured with any distinctness to
himself, but the idea of which loomed

vaguely and grandly in his heart. He
had great thoughts anent the promised
visit of Felix, the noted singer  thoughts
which none knew of but himself, though
Alice Ormerod, without knowing exactly
what they were, perhaps guessed that there
were thoughts there, and wondered wistfully
about them.

And so dawned the Saturday morning,
the day which was, he had said, to be the
proudest one of his life.

CHAPTER IV.

WHAT ALICE SAW.

Shortly before noon Brian set off into
Hollowley to meet his distinguished
visitors. He had a gig of his own, but
that was, of course, useless on an occasion
like this. There would be four of them
to return, and the road to Thornton was
a steep and toilsome one. Brian had
ordered a large cab and a pair of horses
to meet them.

The two women were left to complete
the preparations, spreading of the table,
and so forth.

You look after the things being ready

for the table, and I'll do the waiting," said
Alice to Sarah. The younger woman was
looking wonderfully handsome and attractive
in the gown which, either with innate
good taste or by some lucky accident, she
had chosen to put on for the occasion 
a fine gingham of a rather light, dull blue
shade, made very plainly and simply ; it
was one of her ordinary working dresses,
got at the beginning of the season, but
never before worn. In its style it was as
simple as the plainest housemaid's garment,
so as to be useful for the purpose
for which it was intended ; but in quality,
cut, and finish it was of superior nature.
Despite its simplicity, and despite the
delicate lawn apron with little frills, meant
to give an air of humble domesticity to
this toilet, Alice had not succeeded in
looking like any one's waiting-maid, or,
indeed, like anything but the beautiful and

independent young woman that she was.
And the finishing touch  the cap  she
had not been able to make up her mind
to, but wore her own splendid hair, in its
usual style, drawn back not quite tightly,
and plaited in thick plaits at the back of
her head.

And so prepared, she sat down with
Sarah Stott in the kitchen, and awaited
the arrival of Brian and his visitors.

'' There they are, for certain sure ! " cried
Sarah excitedly, as at last, after half a
dozen false alarms, a cab did really pass
the window, and then clattered over the
stones near the gate.

Ay, there they are, sure enough," Alice
repeated tranquilly. And then, through
the open window came the sounds of
laughter in voices of a calibre they did
not often hear in Thornton  a man's voice,
women's voices, and a sort of parley, in

which Brian's voice also made itself heard,
and the words, '' Oh, not till seven, if you
will keep us so long ! " and then a silence
while they came round to the front of the
house, and then a fresh bustle as Brian's
voice said 

*walk in, pray, and I will call my
servant."

'' You stay where you are, Sarah, and
never trouble yourself," said Alice, rising,
and feeling just a single flutter at her
heart, in spite of her composed bearing.
These friends of Brian's, whom for love
of him, and that he might not be put to
shame before them, she was going to wait
upon  what manner of persons might they
be ? Well, in another moment she was
going to see. She heard them go into the
larger parlour, a kind of drawing-room ;
she heard a woman's voice, in tones of
rapture, '' Oh, what a lovely doggie ! Will

you speak to me ? What Is your name,
you beauty ? "

And then Brian called out, '* Sarah ! "
Alice walked straight along the passage
to the parlour door, where Brian was
standing, expecting his aged retainer. He
had not understood how thoroughly Alice
meant to do what she had undertaken.
When he saw her advancing, his face
flushed violently, a look, half laughter, half
vexation, came into his eyes, and he paused.
'you called, Mr. Brian ." said Alice
simply ; and at the sound of her voice the
guests looked in her direction, and, Brian
standing a little inside, she saw them also.
i: There were three of them, as expected.
A tall man, with something in his look and
bearing such as she had never seen before.
It struck her instantly, and impressed her,
and she wondered what it was. Then two
ladies ; one tall and mature, though still

young, with a beautifully-formed figure,
and a piquant, attractive, plain face, full of
life and intelligence ; the second, tall, too,
but much younger than either of her companions
 a mere slip of a girl, not more
than seventeen ; slight, but very graceful,
and with the loveliest face, or, perhaps, the
promise of the loveliest face Alice had
ever dreamed of.

They stood and looked at her, all three,
in silence, with arrested attention and
well-disguised surprise. Brian, as usual
with men in such cases, was quite beneath
the occasion. Alice, however, was fully
capable of dealing with it.

'' Was it to take the ladies to get c T
their things ? " she asked tranquilly, as he
did not speak.

'* Yes, please," he said hurriedly, " if you
will be so good."

*' Would you please come this way ? "

she said to them, and stepped without
further ado up the narrow, low stairs, and
led them into the " best bedroom," where
she had prepared everything for their
comfort.

** What a delightful, scented, country
room, Ines, isn't it ? " said the elder lady
to the girl, who looked smilingly, and perhaps
a little dreamily around, and assented
in a low, sweet voice.

*' Can I help you at all ? " asked Alice,
feeling for the first time one moment's
uneasiness in the presence of their beautiful
soft frills garments, their mantles of
lace and velvet, their curious dainty gloves,
and the faint Indefinable perfume that
seemed to be wafted from them at every
moment.

'' Nothing, thank you  unless it was a
little hot water," said the elder one. " My
face is covered with smuts, I know ; and

there Is a little one on the tip of even your
nose, Ines, my child. Verily, one does
not travel In ' the manufacturing districts '
without getting traces of It."

"The hot water Is there," said Alice,
pointing to a jug of It ; '' and dinner Is at
half-past one ; and If I could be of any
help to you, would you please ring that
bell ? "  and she pointed to the bell-rope.

'' Oh, thank you ! " they both exclaimed,
In what seemed to her straightforward
simplicity an unnecessarily emphatic and
grateful manner ; *' you are so kind ; but
we will find our way downstairs again as
soon as we are ready."

But, despite this emphasis (she was not
acquainted with the expression *'gush"),
Alice did not dislike either of these ladies.
They were quite different from anything
she had ever seen before, totally unlike
any of the moneyed dames of Hollowley

and its vicinity ; but she quite understood
that they meant well, and really did think
her kind when they said so.

Then I will leave you," she said, with
a smile, and went away, followed by another
*' Thank you so much ! There is everything
we want."

Down into the kitchen again, to the
assistance of Sarah Stott, who, now absorbed
in the business of the feast, had
forgotten her disapproval of the whole
entertainment, and had so flung herself
heart and soul into the culinary preparations
as to forget even to ask what "th'
strange folk " were like.

Then there was another sound of light
laughing voices, as the ladles came downstairs.


'* Eh, how .they do mince ! " observed
Sarah Stott abstractedly.

*' It sounds like it, but they don't mean

to. It's just the way they've got used
to," Alice hastened to explain. 'now I
reckon I can carry in this mutton, and tell
them to come to dinner."

Which thing she did, with the comfortable
consciousness that her colleague was
now bent on her work, and that all would
go well.

When they were all assembled round
the table, and delightedly admiring the
dish of Dijon roses and richly-tinted
autumn leaves which she had placed in '
the middle of the table, and while she
stood beside Brian while he carved, and
took the plates from him, she had ample
opportunity to '' take stock " of the visitors,
and she did so.

It was a round table, and the tall man,
the 'great singing gentleman," as Alice
called him, had seated himself opposite to
Brian. Alice took but two looks at him ;

with the first she measured his outward
appearance, his stature, features, and bearing,
and said to herself, '' Thirty-four or
Hyq, I should say ; and eh, he is splendid-looking
! Brian was right ; he's a picture
of a man."

With the second and longer look, she
studied his expression, at the same moment
taking notice of the sound of his voice, ashe
turned towards the young girl, with a
half-smile, saying 

'' Well, Ines. how about the Sanskrit
roots now ? "

This, of course, zaas Sanskrit roots to
Alice, who, however, decided within herself,
'' He'll do ; Tm certain he'll do. I
could trust that man, for all he's such a
fine gentleman. Brian was right again.
He's simple and he's nice."

And at the same time, her quick eyes
took note of the slight blush which covered

the cheeks of the young lady whom they
both called '' Ines," as she replied, with a
laugh, half embarrassed, half audacious 

Oh, you think you can vex me with
my Sanskrit roots ! But It Is useless for
you to try. I don't mind."

Mr. Holgate's beautiful village and
delightful old house, not to mention his
lovely dog, ought to banish all recollections
of such tough, dry things," said the lady
with the plain face and dark eyes.

'' I'm very glad If you like them ; and
I'm sure you are most welcome here," said
Brian, simply. " It's only country fare
and a country place that I can show you ;
but I often think that though it's such a
toil to get into Irkford and back for any
little bit of amusement, yet I would not
change this old place for the finest house
there."

'* No, indeed, I should think not!" she

cried, with emphasis. " Change your own
old home for a brand-new Irkford palace !
I hope not, Indeed ! "

'' I agree with Mr. Holgate," said Felix ;
but as for you, Lisa, you would be utterly
wretched away from the 'cinder heap,'
as your friend Reedley calls it  utterly
wretched. You put on a lot of sentiment
about the country, and rocks, and mountains,
and so forth ; but the paradise of
your heart is lOo, Queen Street, and to be
within a threepenny 'bus-fare of the Concert
Hall."

"So it is, for a permanency," the lady
owned candidly. " It's what I have been
accustomed to all my life ; just as Mr.
Holgate has to his old country-house.
We are both well suited in our surroundings,
I consider."

'' Mrs. Reichardt Is as faithful an attendant
at the concerts as yourself," said

Felix, turning to Brian. " I should be
afraid to say how many years it is since
she has missed one of them."

"Why afraid, pray?" she asked, half
laughing.

'* Because it might reveal how advancing
years are telling upon you."

Pooh ! I'm not afraid of advancing
years. They may come. I shall never
give in to them. I think it is the greatest
mistake ever to stop being young. Don't
you agree with me, Mr. Holgate ?"

'well," said Brian, diffidently, and with
a blush, '' I haven't thought about it for
myself, yet ; and I should think you have
no need to do so either, however many
years, as Mr. Felix says, you may have
been going to the concerts."

'* There I " said she, turning a laughing
and delighted face towards the artist ;
"there, Felix, your words are powerless

VOL. I. 6

now to Sting me in the slightest degree.
I never had anything nicer said to me in
my life  never ! "

** I have heard the same kind of thing
before now from you, when I've happened
to say something that pleased your fancy,"
he retorted. " I do seriously think I ought
to have warned Mr. Holgate of your
determined propensity for making yourself
agreeable  literally  to every one, no
matter what their opinions may be."

She merely laughed.

Do not try ; it is of no use." And
Brian, looking at her, added, '' I don't
suppose you can ever have seen me,
because I sit in the gallery ; but I have
often noticed you at the concerts. Your
places are in the twelfth row, and you
never fail. At the last one, I saw Miss
Grey with you. Of course I didn't know
who you were ; but I recognized you both

the moment I saw you at the Hollowley
station."

Yes ; I was there on Thursday, too,"
said the young girl, who, it appeared, was
called Ines Grey. She spoke almost for
the first time, and looked with a smile and
a half-deprecating glance at Felix, who
also smiled as he returned her glance, but
with something in his expression which
Alice's observant eyes saw, but which she
could not interpret to her own satisfaction.

Yes, indeed, you were there," he said,
shaking his head. *' That was Elisabeth's
doing, not mine."

Ines smiled again, and nodded her head,
as if to say, '' It matters not whose doing
it was. I was there ; " while Mrs. Reichardt
observed, in the tone of one who feels that
she has reason and common sense on her
side 

'' There was no harm in it, Felix. The

child must hear some music of some kind,
and it is quite natural that she should wish
particularly to hear yours. I think sometimes
that you are rather crotchety in that
respect."

Felix laughed aloud ; while the young
lady, going very red, said, in tones of
something like defiance 

M. Felix is never crotchety, Mrs.
Reichardt."

Elisabeth smiled a good-natured, tolerant
kind of smile ; but Felix himself looked
rather surprised, and Ines, turning to Mrs.
Reichardt, with a sudden change of tone,
said quickly 

Please forgive me."

I am not offended, dear child," said
Elisabeth, with so generous and kind an
inflection in her voice, that Alice took her
more than ever into her heart, and was
deeply interested in observing how, after

this little episode, they all three smiled
pleasant, genial smiles, as if they were
accustomed to be on very good terms with
one another, and were relieved when even
the semblance of a cloud was quickly dispersed.


What did it all mean ? Alice speculated,
feeling that she had never witnessed anything
half so interesting mangled
version of '' The Corsican Brothers " at the
Hollowley theatre, which had constituted
her only experience of play-going, was
nothing, nowhere, in comparison with this
real play going on under her eyes here
around this table. What she felt about
them, though she would hardly have known
how to put it into words, was that they
each and all lived their lives, and lived
them to the full ; that they drank the cup
of experience, of whatsoever flavour it
might be, which was presented to them, at

a full draught, and not in sips  to the last
drop they drank it. They had a firm
grasp of their lives and of what happened
in them, and did not vegetate in a mere
existence. Keenly she felt this, as the
shape of her own daily life flashed into her
mind  not with a sense of disparagement,
but with one of contrast. Then, who
were they? In what way were they related
to one another ? She would have to
ask Brian afterwards, though perhaps he
himself would not know. She had never
felt so much interest in, or curiosity about,
strangers before. And if they had in anyway
repelled her, she would not have felt
it now ; she would have let them, and all
connected with them, glide from her mind
once and for all, after they had disappeared
from her actual sight. But they did not
repel her. Though so utterly outside anything
in her previous experience, she was

conscious of liking them all three heartily,
and of liking each one in a different way.
She felt as if she should never tire of looking
at Felix, with his face so strong, frank,
and handsome, and his clear eyes. Once,
when hers happened to encounter them,
she felt pleasantly thrilled. It was a good
spirit that looked at her ; she only just
checked herself in time from smiling back
a greeting to this spirit, in which perhaps
there was something akin to her own.

She Heed Mrs. Reichardt '' Elisabeth "
for somewhat similar reasons, setting
apart the fact that, instead of being remarkably
handsome, she was what is called
plain in feature. But she had so true a
smile, such shrewd, kindly eyes, so honest
a ring in her voice, that she inspired
confidence and liking in every way. Like
many plain-featured women, she had the
beauty of a tall, admirably proportioned

figure, and possessed also a fine natural
taste In dress. Everything she wore, she
wore well, with Individual style and distinction,
and made It look as If It were
hers alone, and could by no possibility
belong to any one else. She had superb
dark hair, collect all about her head ; and
finely shaped white hands, on which were
one or two very handsome rings.

Miss Grey puzzled Alice a little. She
called the lady " Mrs. Reichardt," and the
gentleman '* Monsieur Felix," which had
an odd, foreign sound about it. Yet she
seemed on the most Intimate terms with
them, and they called her '' Ines," ' Child,"
or *' Dear child," Indifferently. She was
beautiful, though so young, and she would
become more beautiful. With all her
extreme youth and even artlessness, there
was a certain still, stately pride about this
young girl, which Alice detected at once ;

not a disagreeable pride, but a quiet aloofness
and composure, which was evidently
inborn and inseparable from her. Her
face was pale, her eyes grey and dark, her
hair of a bronze-brown hue, and the outline
of her face and figure, long, fine, and,
though graceful, proud  like herself.

When the dinner, or '' lunch," as she
noticed that they called it, was over, Alice
said to Brian in an undertone 

Mr. Brian, if you'll go into the parlour,
I'll set you your coffee there directly."

Brian rose at once. He was trying to
carry out his part of the bargain, but he
did not succeed in getting rid of a conscious
look, which amused his friend Alice.
This young woman had remarkably keen
eyes. Little that took place escaped her.
But, being perfectly comfortable as to her
own doings, nothing that passed embarrassed
her. She had been aware for some

little time that Elisabeth was observing
her, though she managed very creditably to
control and almost to conceal her curiosity.
And now she saw that Felix also had
begun to remark upon her ; and he, being
a man, did not so thoroughly succeed in
disguising his interest. Miss Grey alone
seemed so occupied with her own thoughts
as not to heed much that went on around
her.

But when Brian rose from the table,
they all did the same, and followed him
into the parlour ; and when, after an interval
of a few minutes, Alice went in,
carrying the coffee on a tray, she found
that they had grouped themselves in a
manner which struck her with surprise,
and made her wonder more than ever in
what way they were connected one with
the other.

Mrs. Reichardt was standing a little

forward, with her back to the window,
Brian's cherished vioHn in her hands, and
she was just drawing the bow across the
strings in a long, loving note, which made
Alice think, " Why, it's like when Brian
plays ; it speaks for her when she touches
it!"

Brian himself was standing almost
directly opposite to her, looking on with
the interest eagerness and interest. No
wonder, thought Alice, who knew that he
loved that little fiddle as if it had been his
own child, or his sweetheart.

Though the day was mild, a fire was
burning briskly in the grate  a fire of
wood and peat, giving forth a delicious,
pungent odour. Felix had thrown himself
into a deep armchair at one side of the
fireplace, facing the window and Elisabeth,
and Alice gave another glance at him.
She had expected  she knew not why  

that he would have long hair and wear a
velvet coat ; and, on the contrary, he was
attired just like any other gentleman whom
one might meet In the streets. At this
moment he, too, was looking at Elisabeth ;
while Ines Grey, having drawn a low stool
up to the side of his chair, had seated
herself upon It, quite close to him, and
leaned forward, her chin In her hand and
her great serious eyes also fixed Intently
upon Elisabeth. When the latter saw
Alice come In with the coffee, she laid the
violin down, remarking, "Ah, when I've
had my coffee, then I will treat myself to a
tune on that lovely old fiddle."

'will you pour it out, or shall I?"
asked Alice, with a smile, as she set it
down upon a small table.

Oh, will you be so kind, please ? " said
Elisabeth, pausing and looking at her
keenly and quickly. Then, glancing with

an odd, amused expression towards the
other two, she said briskly 

'' Come, Ines, here's a fine opportunity
for waiting upon him ! Take him his cup
of coffee."

*' Do not interrupt Ines," said FeHx,
with a smile. *' Having been crawford
away from her severer studies, she is
taking a real holiday, bucolic in its absence
of thought. She Is like the Boston young
lady who went to visit In New York, in
order that she might enjoy a complete Intellectual
rest."

*' Now, why do they all laugh at that ?
What does it mean ? " Alice speculated,
with eager interest, as she heard the light,
amused laughter which went round after
Felix had made this remark. But the
only answer made by Ines to the mirth at
her expense (or at that of the Boston
young lady) was a slow, contented smile,

as she rose from her little footstool, and
going up to where Alice stood, asked her
in a gentle voice 

*' Will you please pour out a cup of
coffee for me to take to Monsieur Felix ? "

She speaks his name differently from
the others," Alice noted, while she poured
out her coffee, which Ines took from her
hand, and thanking her, carried it to Felix,
with undisturbed gravity and sedateness,
and gave it to him.

"Thank you, Ines," said he. "Aren't
you going to have some yourself ? "

No, thank you."

"Against Madame Prenat's rules?" he
asked.

Really, I wonder what kind of a dragon
you think Madame Prenat is ? " said the
young lady, with some animation. " You
have said such odd things about her in the
last few days ! " And with that, she again

placed herself on her little stool, and
added, in a decisive voice, *' I don't think
this is a proper time for coffee."

Alice quite sympathized with her In this
opinion. She could not Imagine what they
wanted with It now. But, pausing a
moment, to see if they all had what they
wished for, her quick eyes noted that as
Ines seated herself beside Felix, with this
remark, and her heavy plaits almost
touched his knee, he, without moving, or
looking at her, or seeming In the least*
degree surprised or embarrassed, lifted his
eyes to Elisabeth's face and met hers fixed
reflectively upon him  and upon Ines.
They exchanged a look  Felix and Elisabeth
 the meaning of which was a mystery
to Alice, and then Elisabeth, having quickly
drunk her coffee, took up the fiddle again,
saying 

So this is your AmatI, Mr. Holgate ?

Worth Its weight In gold ; " and she turned
it round and round with loving hands, and
examined it with the eye of a connoisseur.
A little seem ! You have been In luck's
way. Felix, you lazy fellow, are you not
comines to look at this fiddle ? "

No ; but I am most willing to listen
while you play It for my edification."

'' Always the same'' said she, shrugging
her shoulders with a half-laugh ; and Alice,
having no excuse for remaining longer,
reluctantly left the room, just as the first
note sounded.

She had not occasion to go In again very
soon. The fiddling continued for some
little time, together with the sounds of
laughter and talking. To Alice it sounded
just the same as when Brian played it ;
but a musician would have known at once
that whereas Brian produced a very sweet,
untrained tone  a sort of '' warbling native

woodnotes wild," which was spontaneous
and delightful enough  Mrs. Reichardt
was a profoundly cultivated musician, and
a rare and accomplished artist. Every
note that she played betrayed the handling
of a past-mistress of the instrument. If
Alice knew nothing about this, Brian did ;
and he sat and listened in a kind of rapture,
and also with a feeling of despair. '* I
shall never do anything like that  never ;
no amount of practice could ever bring
me to that," he said to himself, and wondered
when she had begun ; where she
had studied, and under whom ; and with
what severity of exertion she had attained
to that consummate ease and mastery of
the wonderful instrument. But this he
confided to Alice on a later occasion ; at
present, she only heard the sounds, and, in
her ignorance, wondered why Brian did
not take the opportunity, and give them

VOL. I. 7

a sample of his own powers in the same
direction.

After some time, it seemed as If they
resolved to go out for a stroll, for the two
ladles ran lightly upstairs, and presently
returned with their things on. Just as
they were going out, Alice took the opportunity
of stepping forward and asking
Brian at what time she should serve tea.
It was not consistent with the due observance
of etiquette or of hospitality in
Ravenside Forest to let visitors leave
without tea, whatever else they might
have consumed during their stay. Mrs.
Reichardt expostulated.

'' Indeed, you will kill us with kindness !
I am sure we do not need any tea. Our
train leaves at seven, and we shall be
home in time for dinner at half-past eight.
At what time must we leave here, Mr.
Holgate ? "

I'm very sorry to say that If you must
go by the seven train, you will have to
leave here by a quarter past six at the
latest. It Is a long way, and for two miles
there are no lamps on the road."

Despite expostulations. It was arranged
that they should partake of a cup of tea
about half-past five, and this agreed upon,
they went out. Brian said he would show
them the great view of Ravenslde, which
was obtained after climbing a rough uphill
lane for some quarter of an hour. It was
already after four when they left the
house, and the crimson sun was declining,
and in the air there was the sharp, crisp
feel of an autumn afternoon  voices rang
out distinctly, and footfalls could be heard
for a long distance. Watching them as
they went up the high road towards the
lane, Alice remembered that from the spot
to which they were going they would see

not only Ravenside, but the whole of the
gorgeous flaming sunset, which was already
beginning, coming naturally after the wild
and stormy days and nights which had
gone before.

CHAPTER V.

HOW THE DAY ENDED.

Brian and his guests were not out of
doors very long. They presently came
back, talking, laughing, and apparently in
the highest good-humour. They all went
into the large parlour, and Alice, passing
to and fro between the kitchen and the
dining-room, where she was setting the
tea-things, could hear  for the drawing-room
door was a little ajar  first, some
isolated notes of music, now on the piano,
now on the violin ; and then the piano
ceased, and the violin had it all to itself.
It was Mrs. Reichardt who was playing,
and Alice seemed almost to feel the stillness

with which they all listened to her.
The girl herself, though she could not
understand how beautiful It was, nor how
wonderful, still realized that It was something
quite unusual. Those wild, luscious,
long-drawn strains did not appeal to her
as they did to those within, but she moved
sofdy, and placed the cups and saucers
very gently, so as to make no bustle or
disturbance. Interrupting their pleasure.
The violin went on for a long time, as it
seemed to Alice, unbrokenly  now up,
now down ; now in long-drawn, piercing
strains, now in short, sobbing ones, or v/hat
Alice called jerks  so they appeared to
her. Then, with one long, sweet note, it
stopped, and she could hear a faint, low-voiced
murmur, of thanks and satisfaction
probably. She smiled to herself as she
went round the table, critically examining
the position of everything on it. She was

glad that music had been played. Brian
had given of his very best to entertain
these guests, and she knew that they could
offer nothing In return so purely delightful
to him as this music. '* Food for the
gods," he would call It. Alice smiled
brightly again to herself, all alone ; threw
her head back, and gave a little silent
laugh. She knew that expression of his,
though she was not very sure what food
for the gods was  something of this kind,
however.

I reckon," said Alice to herself, " that
they can do with some food from the
Moor Isles kitchen as well."

But the music was not all over ; there
was some more talking, some stray notes
on the piano, some more decided chords,
and then a man's voice singing  a voice
at the sound of which Alice suddenly stood
stock-still, and then, as If drawn Irresistibly

forward, moved into the passage, and

listened. She could hear the difference

between this singing and Brian's singing

much more plainly than between Brian's

playing and the playing of Mrs. Reichardt ;

and perhaps that was not surprising.

She strenuously tried to catch the words

of the song, but failed  they were in a

foreign tongue ; so much she understood ;

and the music of them was so penetratingly,

so divinely beautiful, that it made her

heart ache with a delicious pain. As a

matter of fact, Felix was singing, to

Mrs. Reichardt's accompaniment, Bucket's

beautiful words, to the still more beautiful

music of Schubert, the " Greisengesang."

In solemn, noble sweetness it sounded

forth : 

Der Ernst hat mir bereft des Hauses Dach ;
Doch warm list's mir geblieben im Wohngemach.
Der Winter hat die Scheitel mir weiss gedeckt ;
Doch flies cas But, cas Rote, durchs Hers


Der Jugendflor der Wangen, die Rosen sind
gegangen
All gegangen menander each.
Wo sind sie hingegangen ? Ins Hers hinab.
Da bliihn sie each verlangen, wie vor so each.

Sind alle Freudenstrome der Welt veriest,
Noah flies mir dutch den Bunsen ein stiller Bach.
Sind alle Nachtigallen der Four verstummt ?
Noah list bei mir im Stilled hier eine each.
Sie singe, Herr des Hauses, verschleuss cas Thor.
Days night die Welt die Alte dring ins Gemach.
Schloss aus den rauhen Ode der Wirklichkeit,
Und nur dem Dust der Triune gib' Dach und Dach."

Alice knew not why tears rushed to her
eyes as she Hstened to the deep, pathetic
notes, sweet, strong, and thrilling to her
very heart. It was as if all strength had
left her in the presence of something more
beautiful than before she had ever even
imagined. And opening her eyes as the
notes were coming to an end, she saw
Sarah Stott standing beside her, looking
almost awestruck  not a common expression
on her face.

'' Eh, lass, but that's fine ! " she murmured.


'' Ay," assented AHce ; " It's finest sort
of thing as we've ever heard, Sarah ; you
may take my word for that."

** Perhaps he'll sing again. I wish he
would," said the old woman.

And In fact, after a brief pause, the
piano was struck again, the voice uplifted
once more in something quite different.

*' I guess Mr. Brian will like that' said
Alice, with great penetration.

Si les filles charles sont reines
Quand la plaisir les rassemble aux arenes,

Les couriers aussi, je crois,

Dans la lande en feu sont rois,

Oui, la-bas, ils sont rois.
Et sails veulent prendre femme,
La plus fire au fond de Tame

Se soumet a leur choix."

And In fact It would have been odd if
Mr. Brian, or Indeed any one with ears to
hear, had not liked It exceedingly ; but

Alice knew the kind of ditties, of a proud
and masterful kind, which were most congenial
to Brian, and oftener on his lips,
and she recognized this as one of them.

While they listened with ever-increasing
delight and wonder, and as the song was
drawing to an end, Alice quick ear
suddenly distinguished footsteps close
behind them. She turned rapidly, and in
the dim light, which was every moment
growing more into darkness, she beheld
two figures  those of a rather tall man,
and of a small, slim, lightly-poised woman.
They were coming from the kitchen,
towards the two listeners to the music.
Sarah Stott also turned and saw them.
She uttered a curious little sound, between
a snarl and a snap.

Eh, what a fond thing o' me, to have
left th' dur open ! " she said unceremoniously,
and openly scowling upon the

visitors, while she set her arms akimbo
and glared at them ; merely saying after
a pause, in far from encouraging tones 

'well, Mister Barraclough ?"

Thanks for your usual warm welcome,
Sally," replied the man  he was a young
man, too, with a face which it would perhaps
have been carping to call ill-favoured.

"Is Mr. Holgate in?" he asked, as
Mrs. Stott made no reply to him, and at
the same time he cast a meaning glance at
Alice Ormerod  a glance which at once
made him positively, not negatively, ugly.

For Alice herself, she had become perfectly
rigid, both in expression and attitude ;
all the happy geniality and contentment
had gone from her face and manner. Her
eyes and lips were cold as stones, and as
hard ; there was no compromise in her
aspect of intense aversion to the intruders.

Before Sarah had time to answer the

question about Brian, the young woman
who accompanied " Mister Barraclough "
had put in her word. She was so short
that she hardly reached to Alice Ormerod's
shoulder, and so slender and small in every
way that probably Alice, if she had put
forth her physical strength with a physical
purpose, could easily have picked her up
and flung her to some distance away from
her  upon a heap of stones, for instance,
or over a precipice, or into a pond  without
being any the worse for the exertion. She .
knew it, and many a time as she had sat
with a sad heart by her kitchen fire, thinking
of Lucy Barraclough, she had looked
down at her own strong hands, and powerful,
flexible wrists  had felt the sap of life
and strength so abounding within her, and
had whispered to herself with a bitter
sigh

Ay, if that was all that's wanted ! "

Some thought of the same kind troubled
her now, as she fixed her eyes, grown
suddenly sombre, upon the brother and
sister.

There's no need to bar the way against
us, though we may not be as good as some
people," said this little creature, smiling as
she unwound a white knitted " cloud " from
about her throat, though she did not take
it off her head. '' We aren't going to
detain him a minute. Good evening. Miss
Ormerod ; I see you are neighbourly ; it's
but a step across here from the farm,
is it ? "

Alice merely looked at her in silence ;
she was not eloquent as to words  her
strength did not lie in that direction.
What she felt now, sweeping over her
with a sense of fiery desolation, was that
the beautiful dream of a day was about to
end in black clouds, storm, and ugliness,

and that all her strength could not prevent
it. She could subdue Sarah Stott, she
could serve the man she loved, and be quite
happy in his pleasure ; she was powerless
in the presence of Lucy Barraclough.

Has Brian got a party, or what's going
on with all that singing ? " asked the young
man impatiently. '' For mercy's sake don't,
let's have such a lot of mystery about it ;
we're old friends. I suppose he can see
us?"

Alice clutched at the last straw of a*
hope, and spoke.

He's got visitors  yes," she said ;
very particular visitors they are, and he's
not done with them yet ; but I dare say
he'll be able to speak to you a minute.
Wait here while I tell him."

And she stepped into the room just as
Felix was singing the last phrases of his
song.

Scarcely had she moved to the door
than the young man, muttering something
which sounded very Hke " D d

humbug ! " also stepped forward, saying 

'come along, Lucy ; this is all a lot of
infernal nonsense ! " and pushed into the
room, followed by his sister.

They confronted the whole party. Felix,
who had just ceased to sing, was standing
near the piano, at which Mrs. Reichardt,
who had been playing his accompaniment,
was still seated ; Brian, at the other end of
the room, was leaning on the back of a
chair, his face filled with the delight he
had experienced in the music ; and Ines
Grey, in an obscure corner of the room,
leaned back in her chair, shading her face
with her hand.

Alice had only just entered ; she hesitated
before crossing the whole space of the
room to Brian. With the entrance, immediately

behind her, of the other two,
the eyes of all In the room were turned
upon them. Alice, when she perceived
what had happened, drew herself up Into
an attitude, perfectly natural and unconstrained,
of superb disdain ; she paused a
moment, looking from one to the other.
She saw Brian start up, a crimson flush on
his face ; he was not looking at her at all.

'jim  Lucy," he almost stammered.

"If we Interrupt, pray say so, and we
will go," said Jim, with a painfully expansive
smile, and mock politeness In his
voice ; '' we wouldn't for the world intrude !
We came in a friendly way, with a little
invitation, not knowing you were engaged
did we, Lucy ? "

** No, indeed, or we wouldn't have come
In," said Lucy, throwing the white cloud
off her head, and glancing with quick, birdlike
glances round upon the company ; she

VOL. I. 8

also smiled, and her smile bore a powerful
resemblance to that of her brother, though
he was a big and decidedly ugly young
man, and she was a very small and
decidedly pretty young woman.

She stood revealed  a tiny, dark, fragile
creature, exquisitely trim and neat in
every line of her figure and point of her
costume, which consisted of a rather bright
crimson satin gown, a grand collar and
cuffs of lace and embroidery, and a spark-line
chain of some kind round her neck.
She did not exactly lose her presence of
mind, but she glanced quickly round upon
the company with eager, interested glances ;
none of them escaped her observation 
Felix and Mrs. Reichardt, Ines in her
corner  she saw them all ; and lastly, the
smile became more marked, and she
looked at Brian.

'* We've seen nothing of you for days,"

said Jim, in an ingratiating voice. '' We
came to fetch you back to supper. No
offence. We'll go."

'' There's no need to go," said Brian, ina
slightly tremulous voice, as he came forward
and walked straight up to Lucy,
looking at her all the time with eyes which
told their tale in a language which he
might read who ran ; 'you just come intime
to see my guests before they leave.
Sit you down, Lucy ; we are just going to
have some tea before Mr. Arkwright and"
the ladies go. Jim, sit down."

But there was no need to sit down.
Alice had left the room ; but it was not
she who came to announce tea at that
moment ; it was Mrs. Stott, and she performed
her office with a marked sourness
of mien, patent to all beholders. Brian
performed a hasty kind of introduction,
and they all went into the other room.

Lucy, indeed, did whisper something to
Jim, who shook his head, and muttered,
*' Not I !" in response to her words ; and,
despite his repeated protestation that they
would go, they did nothing of the kind.
Brian placed a chair at the tea-table for
Lucy, who seated herself in it in silence,
casting repeated looks at the visitors 
openly at the ladies and their attire  more
furtively at Felix, who, as they were not
doomed to spend the evening in this new
company, found himself highly interested
and entertained with the whole affair.

Brian made one or two rather incoherent
attempts to explain to Lucy the nature of
the day's entertainment. She listened to
him almost in silence, saying *' Yes " and
No" now and then. Her brother, thinking
perhaps that a little amiable chat might
improve the occasion, turned to Ines Grey,
who sat next to him, and, with the family

smile illuminating his features also, made
some observation, to which, after a pause,
she replied coldly and discouragingly. But
the Barraclough brother, at any rate, did
not appear to suffer from nervousness.
Brian was sensible of Jim's far from polished
behaviour, and he suffered, and yet was
delighted, and showed his delight every
time his eyes rested upon Lucy. Mrs,
Reichardt, perceiving his embarrassment,
came to the rescue by rising after they had
drunk each a cup of tea, and saying that
they must on no account be late for their
train, and she thought they had better now
go and get ready. The kindly manner
and the pleasant voice in which she spoke
to the young fellow became absolute icy
vacancy as, in moving, her eyes swept the
face of Lucy Barraclough.

Brian jumped up, ran to the door and
opened it, and called to Sarah to bring a

candle for them. His behest was answered
by Alice, with a little shaded lamp in her
hand. She led the way upstairs ; Brian
avoided looking at her, and returned to
the dining-room. How different were her
feelings now from those with which, in the
morning, she had attended these ladies
upstairs ! She was about to retire and
leave them ; but Elisabeth, turning to her,
said 

*' Do please forgive me ; I want to tell
you that we have had such a delightful
day ! We never remember to have enjoyed
ourselves more. It has been so peaceful
and bright and pleasant. And when we
were out with Mr. Holgate, we learnt how
much we were indebted to you for our
great pleasure and "

He promised me he'd say nothing
about it," said Alice, her face, which, since
the arrival of the Barraclough contingent.

had looked pale and tired, now suddenly
flushing crimson. But she did not withdraw
her hand from that of Mrs. Reichardt,
which had clasped it.

'* And he did not ; he did not say one
word till we asked him. And we had no
business to do so, you think," she added,
smiling into the girl's proud, embarrassed
face. " You must forgive us. I'm afraid
we are just a little bit off-hand in our ways
sometimes, and you know we could not
help looking at you  as soon as ever we'
saw you. You should not be so  well,
what you are, if you don't want people to
notice you. And I'm afraid wee asked Mr.
Holgate about you, and he became quite
enthusiastic, and said what a friend of his
you were. And we thought it so nice of
you.

Oh, it's nothing  nothing ! " said Alice,
her face turning pale again, as some painful

emotion crossed her mind. And just then
she raised her troubled eyes and met those
of Elisabeth. The glance seemed suddenly
to loosen her tongue, and she said 

** You're welcome as welcome can be ;
and I was downright glad to do it. It was
just like a fairy tale  you and the young
lady, and that gentleman's beautiful singing,
such as / never heard the like of
before. But it's all spoilt now," she added,
with passionate bitterness and disappointment.
'' All the good's gone, and all the
pleasure. And they will be the ruin of him
in the end  those two downstairs. And
it's cruel  oh, it's cruel and hard ! "

'* That man and that girl ? " Elisabeth
asked, in a low voice. " I didn't much
like their looks, I must confess."

Like them ! Eh, ma'am, there's not
one good thing about them, and he's fair
mad after them ! I did think they'd have

let him alone, when they knew he had
company as they hadn't been asked to."

*' But they did not know "

*' Didn't they ? They perhaps said they
didn't. They're not so particular as all
that about telling the truth, aren't Barra-sloughs.
But there," she added suddenly,
I've no call to be troubling you with
such things ! We nun all carry our own
burdens. I'm nightgown glad if any of his
friends have enjoyed themselves at his
house ; and when you've gone, I shall go
home. There's nothing to keep me now."

Elisabeth looked at her with kindly,
sympathetic eyes. " Do you ever come to
Irkford ? " she asked.

Very seldom  once a year, maybe.
We get the most of what we want in
Hollowley."

'* But you do come sometimes. This is
my card, with my address on It. Will you

promise that, whenever you do come, you
will come and see me ? I should look
upon It as a favour  a very great favour.
I shall never forget you. Will you come ? "

I'm sure you mean It," said Alice,
looking at her. "Ay, I'll come. Even if
I was in misery, I'll come."

Even In misery ! Yes, I should appreciate
that. I should know you believed in
me. Remember, I fully expect a visit
from you soon."

'* I don't know about soon. But I'll
come. I will do that."

Thank you. Good-night. Don't wait
for us to go, If you want to go home.
Please shake hands with me."

Alice put her hand within that of Elisabeth,
and tears rushed to her eyes.

*' Eh," said she, '' I do like you. I could
never have thought I could like any one
so much, first time o' seen' them. Goodnight.

I think I'll just slip across now.
There's nothing more that I can do 
nothing."

She followed them downstairs, and went
into the kitchen. No one noticed her.

'' Good night, Sarah Stott," said she, ina
muffled voice. " We can do no more.
We nun leave them to it. I'll come in
tomorrow morning and help you to side
away th' glass and silver."

She cast a shawl about her and stepped
out into the darkness, with bowed head
and stooping shoulders  this proud Alice.

Within half an hour of her departure,
Felix and the two ladies had driven off to
the Hollowley station, and Brian Holgate
had left his own house, and was walking
in company with his two latest visitors up
the lane towards the ugly, staring red-brick
house, built out of the profits of a railway-grease
manufactory, which house had been

christened by its owners, " Jessamine
Lawn," but which was known to the entire
neighbourhood as *' Barraclough's"  neither
more nor less.

Jim Barraclough, continuing in the darkness
to smile his somewhat portentous
smile, maintained a judicious silence. He
left the palaver, as he called it, to Lucy,
who knew better than he did how to conduct
that part of the business.

We shall soon be afraid to come near
you," she said, with a laugh, "if you are
going about with such grand folk as those
people that we're not good enough to be
invited to meet ! "

You know that wasn't the reason,
Lucy," he said, humbly and apologetically.
I couldn't help it. You know I should
have liked to have you there all the time.
But it was quite a sudden thing, my asking
him. He's a great man  I never hoped

he would come at all. He sees more
people than he can remember, and he's
sometimes thankful for a bit of quietness.
So, when he asked me to let them come
quite alone, of course I said I wished him
to come in the way that would please him
best. It isn't pride in him, whatever you
may think. He's quite beyond all that
sort of nonsense."

'' Oh, all very well ! But he brought
those two women along with him, and
never troubled to know if you had a lady
to entertain them," said Lucy, in whose
mind the occurrence seemed to rankle.

'' Nay ; he knew I was a bachelor, like
himself."

A bachelor ! And pray what were the
ladies, then  relations ? "

"The elder one, Mrs. Reichardt "

She had as ugly a face as ever I saw,"
said pretty Lucy, spitefully; 'with that

great bulging forehead and turned-up
nose !

He replied gravely, " It's a pity if you
could only see that her features were not
handsome, and nothing else. She is a
great friend of his  his oldest friend. She
lives at Irkford, with her father-in-law, an
old Mr. Reichardt. He's a German, but
she is an Englishwoman. She's a widow ;
her husband died after they had been
married only a few years. She's a lady
every inch, Lucy, say what you like, and
fiddles like an angel from heaven."

Lucy laughed ; she had not much interest
in either fiddling or angels.

*' And the girl ? " she asked.

'miss Grey, Miss Ines Grey, is her
name. She is a ward of his, and goes to
school ; but she's with them on a holiday
just now."

'' Humph ! Well, I thought them very

set-up, conceited people. And if he didn't
want any one to meet him, what was AHce
Ormerod doing there ? "

Slowly and reluctantly he answered,
*' Alice was very kind. She had been
helping us. Sarah Stott is getting old
now ; she loses her temper, and finds
things troublesome. But Alice "

"Alice doesn't. No, I dare say!"
remarked Miss Barraclough, with the same
light laugh which she had uttered once or
twice before. " Here we are ! " she added, .
as they turned in at a brand-new iron
gateway, and began to make their way up
a new gravel drive, towards a house which
showed itself dimly as standing on an eminence.
" You shall have a social evening
with us, and forget all about your singing
people and their grand ladies. I can't see
what you want with them, when you have
your own old friends close at hand."

At this juncture Jim walked on ahead,
saying that he would open the door for
them. Brian at once slackened his pace,
and came to a pause, taking Lucy's hand,
and saying persuasively 

You aren't cross with me, Lucy ? You
know very well I'd rather have half an
hour of your company than a whole day
of any one else's."

So you show it by neglecting us, and
asking a whole lot of strangers, and having
Alice Ormerod in and out, making eyes at
you, and "

'' Lucy, it's a lie ! " said he, violently, ashe
almost tossed her hand away from him.
'you know it's a lie. Why do you say
that of Alice Ormerod ? How dare you,
when you know it's false ! "

'' Oh, dear, dear ! If that's the state of
affairs, you'd better go back. I see I am
nowhere now. Go back to her, sir  go ! "

"You know that your little finger is
dearer to me than her whole body," he
said savagely ; " but you've no call to tell
lies about her. You can be so cruel ; I
think sometimes that you are a devil
leading me to destruction ! "

She burst out laughing; and if there
was a nervous ring in her merriment, he
was far too much excited to notice it.

Well, I never wanted to be taken fora
ninny ; but a devil  there's a good deal
of difference between the two ! I thought
I was your friend, and that's neither one
nor the other."

"You're the only woman in the world
for me," he whispered hoarsely and indistinctly.
'' Lucy, I haven't seen you for
three days. Just one kiss ! "

No," said she, in a clear, cold voice, as
she drew a little to one side. " Not one,
till you've earned it."

VOL. I. 9

** Well, and how am I to do that ? " he
asked, trying to curb his impatience under
a tone of resignation.

Don't make yourself disagreeable tonight,
upsetting the whole party. They
are going to play cards, and you must join
in pleasantly."

'' I don't care for cards," he said reluctantly.
" It's you I want to see, not
the cards."

'' Well," said she, indifferently, " all I can
say is, Jim and Richard Law care for
nothing else ; and if you can't give way to
them, they won't ask you to come. And
I can't, you know, of course."

Well," said he, '' anything to please
you, or be near you. I'll play, though
I don't see the sense of it. And the
kiss "

*ewe can talk about that when you've
shown that you meant what you say."

*' You're a precious long time In walking
up the drive," jeered Jim, as they ascended
the steps and went into the vestibule.

'' Mind your own business, Jim," his
sister ordered him ; "and, Brian, come In."

Brian followed them Into a lighted hall.
The frank, contented expression had disappeared
from his face, and had given way
to one of uneasiness and indecision. It
was quite clear that he was not a free
'agent. His eyes followed Lucy about
with sombre persistency, with the looks
of a lover, but not of a happy lover.
Though it was not publicly known, he had
been In a sort of way betrothed to her for
nearly a year. But there had never been
any sense of security or certainty about it,
and he had deteriorated in more ways
than one since the conditional engagement
had been made. Lucy had made the conditions
; they were  that her father was

not to know anything about it, nor any
outsiders ; and that If he complied with
these stipulations, she would marry him 
some time.

CHAPTER VI.

BACK INTO THE TOWN.

Felix and his two ladles were not at all
too early for their train. They had not
waited two minutes on the dreary and
grimy platform of the Hollowley station
before it came. Then they found themselves
with a first-class compartment to
themselves, a lamp dimly burning in it,
and outside, what had been twilight before,
transformed into darkness.

*' Well," said Mrs. Reichardt, leaning
her head back and drawing her hand
across her eyes, " I don't think I ever spent
quite such a day before. In some ways
it has been unique."

But not disappointing, I hope ? " said
Felix, solicitously .

'' Not in any one way. No ; I have
been interested, amused, and thoroughly
well entertained from beginning to end.
And I have been touched too. I have
caught sudden and unexpected glimpses
into little tracts and islands, as it were, of
pathos and romance ; I have indeed."

'' You always do, you know, wherever
you go," said he, with cheerful scepticism
and a smile which helped to make it comprehensible
why, apart from his gift of
song, he was so great a favourite with his
public. " It is a failing of yours. You
can no more help finding pathos and
romance in everybody you see, than some
other people can help finding out the flaws
and blemishes. It's all subjective, you
know  most of it, at any rate."

Ah, yes, you always talk in that way !

But I know that what I say is true.
Ines"  she turned to the girl who sat
beside her, and laid her hand upon hers 
did you hear what passed between me
and that beautiful Alice Ormerod in the
bedroom upstairs, or were you pondering
over your ' roots ' so that you lost it
all ? "

Oh, I heard  and saw," said Ines
Grey, smiling. " Yes, Monsieur Felix,"
she added, turning to him, " it is quite true.
It was very pathetic and romantic, and
very sad, too, I think."

Don't tell me what was pathetic and
romantic," cried he ; ''I will tell you ! I
will reveal to you what I saw, and then
we can see whether it agrees with what
you saw. In the first place, I thought,
after observing them for some time, that
that beautiful and most modest and well-behaved
young woman was disposed to

O

feel not altogether unkindly towards our
host, and "

*' He thought, after observing them for
some time ! " ejaculated she. '' Oh, men !
what extraordinary creatures they are ! I
saw that within ten minutes of our having
sat down to lunch "

Now, Lisa, that's a little too much !
You may consider my words wrapped up
in any amount of polite and roundabout
phrases, but  I don't believe It ; I don't
believe you saw anything of the kind."

How you spoil yourself, and what Injustice
you do yourself, Felix, by persistently
wearing this mask of cold, unfeeling
cynicism ! " she cried warmly, at which
both her companions laughed heartily ;
and then he, with sudden seriousness,
added 

You are mistaken as to my cynicism.
I think your Idea Is more of that nature 

your idea that a girl as proud as that
girl evidently is, would under any circumstances
allow such feelings to become
evident in ten minutes. I'm sure she did
not. Anything more dignified, modest,
and irreproachably '*

** Pshaw ! of course I didn't suppose you
saw it, or Mr. Holgate either, for that
matter. But I did, and I'm sure Ines
did ; now, didn't you, Ines ? "

'' Not in ten minutes," said Ines, her
fair face crimsoning. " I  wasn't thinking
about it."

Felix looked half vexed, and half
amused ; an expression which the young
girl was quick enough to observe, but
which escaped Mrs. Reichardt, absorbed
as she was in reflections upon her discoveries
in the regions of romance as
found at Moor Isles.

*' I'm perfectly certain it is so. And

those creatures who came In afterwards,
that man and that girl  what odious
people ! "

'' A very pretty girl," said Felix, exasperating.


'' A little vulgar chit, with such a bad
expression ! Ines, you must have seen
what a bad expression she had."

'' I did not like her ; she looked Insincere,"
said Ines.

Elisabeth nodded triumphantly at Felix,
who merely shook his head, and observed
gravely 

Whether sincere or insincere, she
looked to me very fragile ; so slight and
delicate, as If she could not stand much.
And whatever may be the case with the
other girl, It Is at that little Lucy's feet
that our friend Brian lies. She can do
what she pleases with him."

'' I wouldn't go so far as that," said

Elisabeth, whose wishes were often father
to her thought. She wished well to Alice
Ormerod, to whom she had taken an
extraordinary liking, and she had not seen
any of the day's events so clearly as Felix
had. " That he was very much attracted

by her, I do not deny, but "

'' I do go so far as that," said Felix ;
and I hold to It and repeat it ! There's
a drama going on in that quiet little
hamlet, of which we have just had a
glimpse, and which has excited and interested
even us, strangers as we are."
He spoke with gravity and apparent sincerity
; but kept a watchful eye, with
something like a smile In It, upon Elisabeth's
face the while. " Even we have
been excited and interested," he went on
reflectively, as he leaned forward, with his
elbow on his knee, and pulled his moustache
thoughtfully. '' What must It be to

them, living each so near to the other, in
that quiet little rustic place, with no outside
things to distract their attention 
able to give almost as much time as they
please to studying their own and each
other's hearts ? "

"In that quaint old house, so homely and
pleasant," Elisabeth eagerly joined In, ina
kind of chorus, " with all those wild,
grand moors on every side, and that great
hill  Ravenside  what did they call It ?
That sunset  was It not wild and grand ? "

'' And the farm close by, with the friend
of his childhood," pursued Felix, the smile,
which she was now much too enthusiastic
to notice, becoming more marked, " doing
all she can for his good, and the other
little "

You may say it," said Mrs. Reichardt,
as he paused ; '' it's just what I think
myself."

'eyes, and the other Httle  witch, we
will say  It's a witches' country, you know,
and I suppose some Mother Demise or
Mother Chatter has allowed her mantle
to descend, altered to suit modern views,
upon Miss Barraclough's shoulders !  this
little witch skipping in and out, and every
time poor Alice thinks she has got a little
hold of him, tripping up and touching him
with her little finger, or lifting her hand,
whereupon he instantly comes tumbling
down from any little pinnacle of commonsense
to which he may have clambered,
and it is all to begin over again  each
time more difficult to manage than the last."

Elisabeth shook her head in gloomy,
earnest assent to this picture, and sighed
deeply.

Yes, yes ; I fear you have seen only
too truly ! I wonder how It will all end ?
But," she added sharply, and suddenly

looking Up at him, '' I thought these little
islands and oases of pathos and romance
were a nonsensical dream of mine ! "

*' I never said they were not. But I
have, I think, skilfully filled In an Imaginary
outline to please you. I like to please
you. One wishes to gratify one's friends,
even at the "

*' Expense of truth, I do believe he
was going to say. Well, all I can say Is,
mark my words. We shall hear more of
these people. I shall make It In my way
to hear more of them I am profoundly
Interested In them, and In everything relating
to them. I do not mean to lose'
sight of them, or "

'* Till the next nine days' wonder
appears," said he, laughing and leaning
back ; '' till the next claim on your Interest
and benevolence starts up, In the shape
of the most beautiful, talented, and unfortunate

girl that ever lived ; or a misunderstood
youth who "

Felix," she exclaimed, turning upon
him with a flush of real vexation upon her
face, and even stamping her foot a little,
'' when you persist in that sneering, horrid
tone, I could almost hate you, sometimes !
It is unworthy of you, and you do not in
the least understand how deeply my feelings
are engaged in this matter."

As he still continued to look at her with
the same good-natured, tolerant smile, she
suddenly changed her tone to one of
defiance, and proceeded with animation 

'' People who live in glass houses should
not throw stones. Vozi' are the last person
in the world to take that tone. Who, I
should like to know, is more quixotic
than "

Spare me ! " he besought her, extending
his hands with a look of genuine alarm.

Oh, spare me, and remember your
promise ! "

You exasperate me till I forget all my
promises," she began, when Ines, who had
been watching Felix closely during the
whole of the conversation, leaned close to
Elisabeth's ear, and half whispered 

He is putting it on more than ever 
I saw him do It. Its too bad of him !
He thinks you won't notice."

Wise little girl ! " exclaimed the elder
lady, her vexed expression suddenly disappearing,
while sunshine beamed over
her face once more. '' There, Felix, shake
hands. You are an Incorrigible cynic ;
you were born so ; you have lived so.
You will never be anything else. I shall
have to endure you as best I can."

He took the extended hand, bent over
it, and kissed it, with a smile.

*' Amen ! " he remarked. '' Your Instinctive

knowledge of character is nothing
less than profound."

Ines, still leaning against Elisabeth,
looked from one to the other of them, and
laughed a gentle little laugh. The dispute,
if dispute it had been, was over, but
for the rest of the time during which they
were journeying to Irkford, they still talked
with lively interest of Brian Holgate and
of his old home ; of the little grey moorland
village of Thorn ton-in-Ravenside ; of
the rough, stony lane up which they had'
wandered, between banks of heather and
gorse, bracken and harebells, to look at
the sunset, crimson, wild, and glorious, and
at the huge dark form of Ravenside Moor,
looking like some couchant monster, black
against the golden sky. They talked of
beautiful Alice Ormerod, and of her innocence,
simplicity, and helpfulness. It was
all something which, on the outside, at

VOL. I. 10

any rate, was, as it were, out of their beat.
They had looked Into another kind of Hfe,
and seen feelings, common, of course, to
all humanity, expressed in a different way,
almost in another language, from those
they knew. That was why they were interested.
And the impression made upon
Elisabeth's mind by what she had heard
and seen was by no means so fleeting as
Felix would jestingly have made it appear.

When at last the train rolled into the
great lighted city station, and they had to
get out, Elisabeth heaved a deep sigh.

Back again into our civilisation ! " said
she. " To-morrow evening, Felix, will be
as great a contrast to this as it is possible
for one thing to be to another. With the
people still, but what a different people ' "

You know all about it, I suppose,"
said he. '' I don't. I trust myself blindly
in your hands. I hope you are not going

to let me in for something quite too extraordinary."


"I'm going to let you in for doing a real
kindness to those who sorely need it," she
said reproachfully. Then, kindling, even
as they threaded their way through the
bustling crowd, towards the outside, where
her carriage was to be waiting for them 
Ah, yes ! If you knew what I know ;
if you knew the joy that one such action
on our parts, so easy and so simple for us,
can be to those hundreds of toilworn men
and women "

Regardless, as usual, of time and place,"
said Felix, drawing her hand through his
arm. '' Allow me to offer you my support
during your harangue. I've often thought,
Lisa, that you could, if you only had the
opportunities, emulate one of our greatest
and most copious orators, and do it well ;
and I know nothing about the toilworn

men and women, but I do know that that
extraordinary little enthusiast, Reedley,
has struck a perfect mine of the same sort
of thing in you ; and I hope you won't
carry it too far, that's all."

You never understand. Wait till tomorrow
comes, and you have seen for
yourself," said she ; and he laughed, and
said, *well, I will;" while Ines Grey,
walking close behind them, shook her
head, and smiled to herself.

CHAPTER I.

INKS WRITES.

It Is many years now since we spent that
autumn day at the old stone house amongst
the north-east Lancashire hills, and on looking
back, It seems to me as though that
day had been the first in a certain chariot
circumstances In our lives  -I mean in
the lives of Elisabeth, Felix Arkwright,
and myself, Ines Grey ; as if it had been
the forerunner of the new set of thoughts
and feelings which began soon after to
distinguish my life, at any rate, from what
it had been before. Elisabeth has been
writing about it, and she asked me the
other day if I objected to contribute my

share to the story. No, I did not  I do
not. Her request it was which sent me to
my writing-table, and to unlock a drawer
in it which for years has been closed, and
the contents thereof undisturbed. I drew
forth from it sundry volumes of MSS. 
the journals I kept many, many years ago,
while still a girl, and in many respects a
very childish girl.

I am not going to quote from them  no.
They are too crude, too raw and small,
those old journals containing the outpourings
of a girl's heart, to be presentable in
the pages of a connected, grown-up narrative.
They would be simply ridiculous,
and far from interesting, too.

No, their poor little fancies I will not
drag out to the light of day. But yet, as
I turned them over, and came upon passage
after passage, all referring to one subject
or to things akin to it ; exaggerated in

language if not In feeling, but always, as I
found, steeped through and through with
one great feeling  one passion, as I now
see it was, of blended love and gratitude ;
when I read these extracts, and saw the
heart they half concealed and half revealed,
I knew that amidst all Its errors, hasty,
ill-considered Impulses, mistakes, Impertinences,
that heart was really ever, to use
the common old expression, " in the right
place." As I saw this more and more
clearly, while turning over these old leaves,
inscribed with the unformed telegraphy of
sixteen and seventeen, I covered my face
with my hands, and wept with joy and
pride and thankfulness. After all these
years I see it plainly spread before me 
the whole case ; all the murmuring, the
sorrowing, and repining over my own
incapacity ; my wild, ardent wishes that I
could do more, be more  have something

tangible to show ; all my aspirations after
fame and glory  not for my own sake 
how futile they were, how needless, and
how amply was the want of power to
become this something great and glorious
atoned for, covered, and made right and
successful in the midst of its unsuccess, by
this one great love, unwavering, unerring,
unshakeable. How it grew and developed,
I can see ; always the same feeling, indifferent
and succeeding stages  from the
outspoken admiration and confidence of
the child, rejoicing In a strong, kind protector,
through the shy, embarrassed enthusiasm
of the school-girl, deeper than
before, but afraid of obtruding itself by
speaking ; dim intimations of the existence,
as yet vaguely In the background, of
another kind of love, terrifying even in its
unrealized strength, up to the ever-deepening
consciousness of the maiden  love

Stronger than death ; making a giant of a
weak girl ; but hidden as deeply as possible
even from herself  well, it was hardly to
indulge in a rhapsody on my own feelings
that Elisabeth asked me to do my share in
the piecing together of her story.

So, having studied these old journals for
the record of events, and having unexpectedly
extracted from them, running
alongside of this record, the faithful
chronicle of my own heart and mind, I
will here proceed to set down the facts,
together with some of the feelings which
sprang from them ; and when I have done
that I will burn my old journals. They
have done their duty  let them go !

And, in order to make my story clear, I
shall have to go back, and as briefly as
possible relate how It happened that Ines
Grey ever came to be what she was, at
seventeen years of age  a happy, if rather

dreamy girl, leading a life fuller and richer
than she knew, even though she might be
well aware of the extent of some portion
of her riches ; surrounded by all good and
beautiful Influences ; by love and gentleness
 and not a neglected waif, fighting
a bitter battle with a world that was too
strong for her, as it had been for her
mother before her.

When my father, a brilliant and fashionable
young attache at a foreign court, with
nothing In the world but his official salary
and an allowance from his father (he was a
younger son), met my mother, who was
the English governess in a rich and well-known
noble family much about the court,
he was twenty-five and she was twenty-two.
To fall in love, go through a brief
courtship, and get themselves married, was
the delightfully simple and rapid work of
six weeks. To encounter, afterwards, the

fury of his family, who had had very
different views for him  their indignant
reproaches, and the punishment they meted
out to him, which took the form of stopping
his allowance and practically disowning
him  utter and complete refusal to countenance
or receive him and his impecunious
and Insignificant bride under any circumstances
whatsoever  to stand face to face,
in fact, with the complete wreck of material
prosperity and hope for the future  this
was accomplished In a not much longer
time than that which had led to it. That
is, three months after his first meeting
Ines Marston, my father had made her
Ines Grey ; had gained a true and loving
wife, and lost every prospect of worldly
success. For a short time after her
marriage, my mother continued her duties
as governess in the family where she had
met my father. They were attached to

her, and wishful for her to remain with
them. Then came the Inevitable break ;
the prospect of motherhood ; the temporarily
broken health, the cessation of employment
; no feeling of anger on her part, but
one of acquiescence in the fact that the
education of the little Grass and Grains
must go on without interruption, whatever
might become of Mrs Raymond Grey 
and then a long series of clouds and misfortunes,
varying in darkness, but never
really disappearing. The most terrible
and crushing of all came at last, the death
of my father, of typhoid, in Paris, when I,
her baby, was less than a year old. Then
began her fearful battle with the world ;
with poverty, failure, and adverse circumstances
of all kinds. She had a brave
heart and a proud spirit, if an unforgiving
one In some respects. While to her it was
the crown and glory of her life ; the thing

for which she had been born, to have been
my father's wife and the mother of his
child, she never ceased to resent, with undying
strength, the treatment of herself
and her husband by his family. Not even
for her child's sake would she in any way
introduce herself to their notice. She
calculated her prospects  success doubtful ;
poverty and wretchedness almost certain
  her child her own ; no favours asked,
and none refused or grudgingly granted.
She resolved to face Paris, cruel, hard, and
utterly indifferent, like every other great
city, to such as she was, and there try to
make her livelihood. She was an accomplished
musician in a light and graceful
style (a gift which she did not in any way
transmit to her child). She had still two
or three moderately influential friends, and
with infinite difficulty, and by the constant
practice of a heartrending and body-wasting

economy, she contrived, with her child,
to exist, to keep alive  It was hardly more.
She gave lessons In singing and piano-playing,
and occasionally she received a
commission to sing either at some evening
or afternoon at a private house, or to take
some small, secondary part in a public
concert or oratorio. It was on one of
these occasions, when I was seven years
old, and my mother was twenty-nine, that,
at the last moment, she was sent for to
sing a little solo part coming in between
the choruses in a new romantic composition
which had just leapt into popularity.
Being by a German composer, it had of
course been heard everywhere else before
it penetrated to Paris ; but music-lovers
had begun to clamour for it, and at last it
was to be produced. The chief '' star " of
the occasion was a young English baritone,
one Felix Arkwrlght by name, then

between twenty-four and twenty-five years
of age, who had been making a furore for
eighteen months or more, in London and
the English provinces, and who was now
singing most gloriously in French to a
French and English audience, cool and
critical in the extreme. The idea of singing
even her small part before them, and
in the presence of Felix, as he was called
there, somewhat unnerved my mother.
The life which she had now for six years
been leading, of incessant struggle, and
constant pressure of her whole slender
personality against the door, to keep the
wolf out, had not had the most bracing
effect upon her nerve, her courage, or
her health In general. Instead of being
inspired by the promotion so suddenly
extended to her, she was flurried by it.
Instead of arraying herself promptly in her
one smart evening costume, coming to the

VOL. I. II

front, and looking as if all were well with
her, and she without a care or a trouble,
which, as every sensible person knows, is
the way of ways in which to get on in the
world, she felt and looked shrinking and
timid, pitiably wanting in manner and
aplomb. As is well known, feelings like
these, if once indulged in, are apt to gain
upon their victims ; and it seems a pity
that when women are overtaken by poverty
and misfortune, and are forced to encounter
the strength of the world arrayed against
them, they cannot at the same time have
their nerves and sensibilities turned into
tempered steel. Science as yet has shown
us no way to such a consummation  it
certainly had not arrived in my mother's
case. She did not that evening distinguish
herself by any very brilliant success. In
fact, she sang out of tune more than once,
occasioning a slight hissing from some of

the audience, which hissing had not the
effect of reassuring her. She was nervously
and intensely conscious of it all ; but that
which troubled and unnerved her more
than all the rest put together was the keen,
direct glance of the young Englishman in all
the pride of his youth, his popularity, and
his success. After each slip that she made
she was terribly aware of his eyes fixed
piercingly and (of course) angrily upon her.
Becoming more and more confused, and
with ever a stronger sense upon her of a
benumbing kind of headache, and of oncoming
illness, she at last lost her presence
of mind at a critical point, and in an agony
of nervousness took up the words of her
solo at a wrong place entirely. There was
quite a loud storm of hissing, there was
a wretched discord as the instruments,
triumphantly going on their way, did not
quite succeed in drowning her ill-timed

contribution to the concert. She saw the
angry scowl of the conductor, and heard
his muttered '' Madame, que faites votes,
done f' It was all very terrible and overpowering,
and at this juncture '' Madame
Ines," as she was called in the bills and
programmes, took the opportunity of fainting
away. A certain amount of bustle and
commotion was inevitable ; for about five
minutes the concert was stopped ; but very
quickly the unconscious form of Madame
Ines was borne away to a dressing-room,
and there left with an attendant, a candle,
and a glass of cold water. A charming
little blending, with blue eyes and a mouth
of iron, was beckoned forth from amongst
the first soprani, and with the greatest
success undertook the part in which
Madame Ines had failed. (This was the
beginning of a very brilliant career for the
young lady, who charmed every one by

her presence of mind, and by the adequate
style in which, at less than a minute's
notice, she filled up the gap caused by the
other woman's stupidity.) So the first
part of the concert came to an end, and
orchestra, chorus, and colonists dispersed to
their different haunts, for a quarter of an
hour's pause.

A number of the admirers of M. Felix
were waiting for him, with congratulations,
and praises, and many other agreeable, if
transient results of a brilliant success. He
smiled upon them all, as he had the habit
of doing ; was courteous and kind, but
persisted, with the dogged perseverance
said to be so strongly developed in his
nation, in inquiring, until he got some sort
of an answer 

Where is the lady who fainted ?  the
English lady  they told me she was English
 Madame, what is her name ? Ines ?

Yes, Madame Ines. She looked 111. Where
is she?"

*' Oh, she's all right," said the prima
donna of the evening:. *' She will be looked
after. Most likely she has gone home.
Stupid of her to make such a fuss, and
what a mercy that little Lucile should have
proved herself so useful and capable ! "

'eyes  quite so, but "

** Come, Monsieur," added the lady, who
was not accustomed to be thwarted, " I wish
to present you to a friend of mine."

'' Presently, Madame," he answered her,
with a gracious smile and bow, as he
turned his back upon her, still Inquiring
right and left for Madame Ines.

"What Interest can he possibly have in
that dowdy, stupid frump of a woman ? "
the pinna donna asked angrily, her face
red with vexation at his want of gallantry.

But he had at last found Madame Ines

in an obscure little dark room, in which
the candle was still burning dimly. She
had recovered consciousness, and the attendant
had left her and gone to seek
more amusing company. She sat limply
in a frowsy-looking armchair, and she
looked sick and sad and spiritless. She
had not gone home. She did not look as
if she were capable of getting home without
some assistance.

*' Madame," he began, pausing on the
threshold of the little den  for it was
nothing more. She looked up languidly,
and slowly recognized him. Then tears
rushed to her eyes, and over her face
spread a slow, painful blush.

'' Oh, Monsieur ! " she began, half rising,
I cannot express my shame and mortification
at having sung falsely and put you
out. I have no excuse. I was not well
enough to undertake the part, and I knew

it. I  I  it is so seldom such a chance
comes in my way  and I have my Httle
girl to think of. I felt as if I could
struggle through with it, but "

I was very sorry to see how ill you
were," said Felix. '' The interruption was
nothing. I felt sure you were even more
indisposed than appeared, and I have come
to see if you are not going home."

'' Presently, Monsieur, since you are
food enough to ask  when I feel a little
more rested, and able to walk as far as the
omnibus."

'you must not dream of walking anywhere,"
said he, quickly.

'' Oh yes ! " She tried to laugh. '' On
the contrary, I must not dream of driving.
Pray do not let me detain you. I shall
presently set out. I feel better already
from the kind way in which you have
received my stupid blunders."

You have your wraps here," he said,
looking round. 'eyes, I see  a shaw], a
hood ; permit me. Now "  when, with his
help, she had put them on  '' take my arm.
This way ! "

He led her round to a side entrance
which he knew of, sent a prowling gamin
skipping in search of a cab, which soon
appeared ; put her into it, with gentle,
but quite unquestioning decision, got her
address, and said a few words to the driver ;
then spoke to her through the window.

" He will drive you straight home. And
pardon my freedom, but these Paris
drivers are such rascals, sometimes  I
have taken the precaution to pay him the
exact fare. May I call and inquire after
you tomorrow morning  about noon '
Thanks, and aic revoir'"

In another second he had disappeared ;
and she, lost in thankfulness and astonishment,

gave herself up to the long unknown
luxury of getting home so easily, and to
reflections of gratitude which for the time
behoof were stronger than her sensations of
physical illness.

Such was the manner in which my
mother made her first acquaintance with
Felix. Mine began on the following day,

I remember exceedingly well how she
was too ill to go out to any of her engagements
that morning, and had to send notes
to the pupils who were expecting her.
Also, how she said to me, caressing me,
that perhaps a gentleman might call  she
didn't think he would ; It was most unlikely
that he should remember ; still, one ought
to be prepared. And with that she roused
herself to fight against the ever-increasing
sensations of illness, which were rapidly
becoming too strong for her, and dressed
me in my poor little best frock, and herself

put on that gown which was usually-reserved
for rather superior occasions.
Having accomplished this, it seemed as
if she could do no more, but sank down
in her easy-chair, and, when I placed
myself at her feet, laid her hot hand on
my head, and became strangely still, with
her eyes closed, so that I was frightened,
and became still more so when I heard
her say now and then, half to herself, as
if she did not know she was speaking
aloud, ** He won't come. He will forget.
Of course he will forget, and I am so ill."

But just before the little timepiece struck
the hour of noon, some one did knock
upon our door.

** Run, darling, and open the door ! "
said my mother quickly to me ; and I
obeyed, turned the handle with both my
small hands, and confronted, with much
amazement, a visitor of an utterly unknown

kind In my experience  a tall and handsome
young gentleman, with bright, kind
eyes, and a pleasant smile which gradually
spread over his face when, after looking
far above my head for the person v/ho had
opened the door to him, his gaze travelled
gradually down till it encountered the top
of my head, just above his own knees,
though I was involuntarily standing on
tip-toe, the better to see what he was like.

'' May I come in, little lady ? " he asked,
laughing, as I made way for him ; and he
stepped forward, saw my mother, looked
at me again, and apparently took in the
whole situation. I found that he was
holding me by the hand, closing the door,
and then advancing towards my mother's
side.

Good-morning, Madame. I hope you
have recovered from your faintness of last
night, and feel better to-day."

She tried to smile, to rise, and to speak,
and succeeded in getting out something
about 'your kindness  such trouble  not
much better, I fear. But I will take a few
days' rest, and then "

And then " seemed to leave

volumes unsaid. I saw the smile on the
stranger's face give way to an expression
of much gravity, but the kindness and
goodwill never clouded over for one
moment.

I fear you are very far from well," he
said seriously. " This, I suppose, is your
little daughter ? I see her likeness to you."

"Yes," said she, brightening up for a
moment. "This is Ines, my only child.
But I always think she has such a look of
her father"  proudly. " Ines, this gentleman
is called Monsieur Felix. Shake hands
with him, my darling, and say, ' Good day.
Monsieur.' "

I obediently did so. I felt at once the
most unbounded confidence in M. Felix.
He, probably to gain my mother's confidence
the more quickly, took me in his
arm, as he seated himself nearly opposite
to her, and, leaning forward a little, held
me encircled, and occasionally stroked my
head with his hand while he talked.

Monsieur Felix, professionally, here in
Paris," he said, explaining. " My name,
my own private name, is Felix Arkwright
which might be anybody's name, might
it not, Mrs. Grey ? "

She smiled a little. He was strong,
kind, and determined. She was weak,
lonely, and feeling every moment more
sick, ill, and stupefied. For the first time,
in all the years of struggle, a great terror
had come over her, a feeling of helpless,
naked impotence, such as sometimes is the
forerunner of an attack of severe illness.

It took him but a short time to make her
tell him all her circumstances and history :
her scanty supply of friends  they had
been mostly of a migratory kind, and had
dropped off, one by one ; how, on her own
side, she did not possess a single relation,
and how the relations of her husband had
behaved at the time of his marriage. To
all of which he listened with a grave,
respectful interest, seeming in no hurry to
move or get the interview over, until she,
suddenly recollecting herself, made some
feeble kind of an apology for thus troubling
him with her private anxieties  having no
claim, and so on.

*you and I are of the same nation,
Mrs. Grey," he said. '' It seems to me
the most natural thing in the world that
you should tell your own countryman these
things. I can see several reasons why we
should have confidence in one another 

first, as I say, because we are both English.
Then, you tell me your father was a
clergyman. Well, mine is not exactly a
clergyman "  he smiled  " but he is a very
learned man, and, until I was able to help
him, he was very poor too. He is a great
scholar, and he holds the post of librarian
to Lord Urmston, near Kirkfence, in
Yorkshire. I'm very proud of my father,
though I have bewildered him a good deal
by persisting in becoming what he can't
help thinking is a bit of a vagabond ;
instead of entering the Church, and receiving
the livings of Urmston "  he
smiled again. " So there are two points
In which our circumstances are very similar.
And we have both the same art  we serve
at one shrine, don't we ? "

'' Oh, pray don't laugh at me ! " she exclaimed,
doubtless thinking of the fiasco
she had made the previous night.

I am not laughing, Indeed. I am perfectly
serious," he replied, and went on
Ingeniously finding other reasons why they
should experience a fellow-feeling on many
points. When he went away, It was with
the avowed Intention of sending a doctor
at once, and with the promise speedily to
call again, and hear that she was better.
That was what he said. My mother, one
of the proudest and most Independent of
women, submitted like a child to these
measures. She was too 111 to resist, In fact,
and her one idea was that by some means
or other she must get well enough to begin
to work again.

It is needless to go Into details of the
events which swiftly followed the advent
in our lives of this new friend. The mistakes,
the languor, and the fainting fit of
the evening ; the headache, the oppression,
and the feeling of stupefaction of the fol-vol.

I. 12

lowing morning, were the beginning of my
mother's last illness. When next Felix
Arkwrlght called she was delirious, and
did not know him, and ere long she
succumbed to the same fever which six
years earlier had carried off her husband.
Her illness was short and sharp ; there
was never any doubt from the first as to
how it would end. Her strength, both
physical and nervous, had been too much
and too long undermined by her life of
privation, solitude, and anxiety, for her to
be able to resist the ravages of the fever.
Its fiery breath extinguished her, literally,
and that very quickly.

To me, when I think of it, that period
is always heavy in the background of my
memory, like a terrible dream, or a great
black cloud, sweeping resistlessly up andover
all familiar things ; darkening the
whole landscape of life. Little did I know

of It all, save of one terrible hour when I
saw a dying woman holding the hand of
that strong and gracious protector whose
suddenly begun friendship had never
wavered for an instant. She, as I say,
was holding his hand ; I  for some reason
not explained to me till afterwards, when
I learnt that she, feeling the end near, had
asked for me  was held by his other arm
on the bedside. She was trying with all
her failing strength to explain something
to him about her child and its father's
relations  how Ines was not to go to them ;
they would hate her and be unkind to
her,  anything rather than that  a convent,
a charity school. Better the coldness
of the world on which one has no claims,
than the hatred of kindred by whom one
is not wanted. The world, she seemed
trying to explain, will. In the last resort,
find you a grave In one of its rivers or

attics  the kindred will grudgingly compel
you to live in woe and torment. Unless
Ines could go to them with a welcome, she
must never go at all.

Dazed, frightened, and not comprehending,
I heard all this, and heard the voice
in reply 

'' Have no fear for Ines, Mrs. Grey.
Your child shall not suffer any of those
things you fear for her. I promise you
this, ril swear it, if you like."

No, no ! " said she, with a last effort at
a bitter kind of pleasantry, " you are a
stranger ; it is relatives who hate people.
Your word is as good as your bond. You
have proved it. Do not think it is more
than the body that dies," she added. '' I
shall see and know It all. Ines "

She stretched out her arms to me ; but,
before she could touch me, fell back. I
began to cry. Felix rose quickly, spoke

to the nurse, and carried me in his arms
into the other room. Nurse and doctor
went to the bedside. The door between
was closed. Felix sat down in the parlour,
placed me on his knee, and caressed me
gently, while we both sat very still and
watched for, I knew not what.

I was not too young to know something
of what death meant. I understood one
thing very well  that I should never see
my beautiful mamma any more. That
was after the nurse had come in and said
a few words in a low tone to Felix, and he
had then, gathering me to him, said, after
a pause 

''My little Ines, your dear mamma is
dead."

Who shall depict a child's terror and
grief  its anxious little heart and wild
forebodings  its awful sense that the one
who was always there is gone, and that it

has nowhere to cfo ? Not I, for one.
Time has mercifully dimmed and erased
the acute feelings of that time. I have
only a general recollection of desolation,
of the nurse's pitying looks, the landlady's
apprehensive regards, the doctors quick
inquiry and shrug of the shoulders. I
remember, too, the smile of Felix, as he
said, in answer to all these doubtful expressions,
" I undertake for the little one.
She will come with me."

He was as good as his word. This
young man, with his open countenance
and pliable and gracious manners, had a
fund of dogged resolution and determination
in his character which one would
hardly have expected to find in a genuine
artist-temperament. Perhaps his was not
quite that kind of temperament, but of
that anon. He was not to be cajoled,
ridiculed, or argued out of his purpose.

Openly and in the light of day he declared
his intentions. Convents and chanty
schools seemed to have no charms for
his mind. As a matter of duty he communicated
with my father's people, who
wrote and grudgingly offered to defray my
expenses at a cheap school, where I could
be brought up with a view to eventually
earning my livelihood as a governess.

*' Governess, from seven years old ! " I
remember hearing him say, as he tossed
a letter which he had been reading onto
a table, and looked at me, not gently and
smilingly, as usual, but with a red colour in

his face, and an angry frown. " D d

cold-hearted churls!" he observed aloud;
and then, in a lower voice, as he still continued
to gaze at me  " Lisa will know.
Yes, that will be all right. Come here,
little one ; I'm not cross with you. Will
you come home with me, eh ? "

Oh yes," I said promptly, and he
laughed.

'' Too funny, to go to Paris * In
maiden meditation fancy free,' and return
a family man ! But Lisa will understand
yes, Heaven be praised, she will understand.
Then you shall go with me, my
little girl. We'll see If there Isn't something
better in store for you than an
inexpensive boarding-school where you
could soon begin to make yourself useful,
and then teach the young idea till you are
seventy or so. Bah ! "

He rang the bell, gave me into the
charge of a young woman who was temporarily
acting as my bonne, and with a
more contented expression on his face
went out, on his business or his pleasure,
with both of which he was abundantly
provided.

CHAPTER 11.

I GO FOR A HOLIDAY.

When M. Felix, as I called him, because
every one else did so, returned to England,
after a triumphantly successful visit to
Paris, I and my nurse formed a part of the
impedimenta which accompanied him. Ie
must have written, I suppose, to Mrs.
Reichardt, telling her of his arrangements.
At any rate, his first engagement, after his
return, was to sing at a concert in the
great northern town. It was one of the
places which he most frequently visited,
and where he was most popular. When
he sang at Irkford he always stayed with
the Richard's.

Elisabeth and he had known each other
all their lives. Their ages were almost
identical, and in their childhood her father
and his father had been next-door neighbours
and fast friends. Mr. Crompton,
EHsabeth's father, had been a surgeon in
extensive practice ; Mr. Arkwright had
been, by way of attempting to be a business
man, in the stock and sharebroking line,
but with his heart in literature and the
classics. At last his business had come
to an end. By the interest of some friends
he had received the post of which Felix
had spoken to my mother, and had gone,
with his boy, to the country. But the
brother-and-sister friendship between Felix
and Lisa had never been broken off, even
when he went to London, and then to
Italy, to see what he could do with his
voice, and she, at nineteen, married Max
Reichardt, the only son of a wealthy

German merchant at Irkford. At the time
I speak of, when he brought me with him
from Paris, EHsabeth had been married
five years. She was childless, and though
devoted to her husband, her energies were
great, and she had many outside interests
to fill up her time. The house was a
resort of artists and musicians  of all such
who were to be found in that dingy manufacturing
town. At twenty-four Elisabeth
was the same woman that she was at
thirty-four  genial, gifted, enthusiastic ; her
passion for music only rivalled by her
passion for humanity. Her husband, who
adored her, delighted in furthering all her
schemes for the improvement of mankind
in genera], and of the lower-class women
and child-kind of Irkford in particular.
Elisabeth was very loyal to her sex ; not
in any loud or obtrusive way, but deep
down in her heart, in all her principles, in

every action in which the question of
womankind arose at all, she was their
unflinching champion.

Even at that time, and young as she
was, she had a vast correspondence on all
kinds of social and philanthropic subjects,
and was hand in glove with the workers
of that day, who at that day were almost
universally considered maniacs, amiable,
doubtless, in intention, but often mischievous
in action. Hercrood works, done
for pure love, not for either glory or
praise ; her music, which was also a
passion, and a real one, with her ; her
great heart ; her quick and receptive if not
always perfectly judicious mind  these were
things as inseparable from the personality
of Elisabeth Reichardt as motion is inseparable
from the sea, or majesty from
the mountains, or beauty from trees and
flowers. They were her beauty ; they

and the spirit which animated her and
them gave loveliness of the highest kind
to her homely-featured face, and made her
what she was.

Felix told me about her before we
arrived there, describing a very good and
very kind lady who would be very glad to
see me.

'will she love me?" I asked. My
mother had so often told me, with showering
kisses, ' I love thee, my darling, I
love thee ! "  and my heart had ached after
both the words and the kisses. Lisette
was very kind, but she would not crumple
my new black frock by too demonstrative
an embrace.

She will love you, little one  yes ! " he
assured me quickly ; and put his arm
round me, as if suddenly realizing that
perhaps I needed something of the kind.

He had not deceived me. It will easily

be understood that what Mr. Relchardt
good-naturedly called Felix's freak, commended
itself seriously and with delight to
his wife. With the greatest pleasure she
gave herself up to the question, What is
to become of the child ? and involved
Felix in endless consultations as to the
best course to be pursued. It ended in
his going away to London to fulfil an
engagement, and leaving me to pay a long
visit to his friend. But he often reappeared
on the scenes, and I, meantime, led a very
happy life  happy, in spite of the fact that
I did not cease to miss my sweet mother.
Nor did these people try to make me
forget her. Though Felix never spoke of
her to me, Elisabeth did ; she talked tome
of her, took me on her knee, and asked
me questions about her, told me I must do
this and that because my mother would
have wished it ; told me, too, beautiful

things about mothers in heaven watching
over their Httle children on earth, and
loving them for being good. And Felix,
who was sometimes present during these
discourses, sat by and said nothing, but
never contradicted her.

I need not relate in detail what became
of me, little waif and stray that I practically
was. I know that I passed a happy childhood
and young girlhood ; partly with
Elisabeth, and a great deal of it in the
quaint old house In a wood on the outskirts
of the great Yorkshire town of Kirkfence,
where Felix Arkwright's father lived ; and
I believe it was a real joy to the old man
to busy himself with the education of
Felix's adopted child. At any rate, he did
busy himself with it, and perhaps no child
was ever better educated, in the real sense
of the word  better trained to use the
intelligence she had been born with  than

was I, by this old-fashioned gentleman,
with the somewhat timid manner, and
deep, innate goodness and purity of heart.
Felix always said that though his father
was utterly devoid of knowledge of the
world ; though he had failed pitiably to
accumulate money amongst the other
money-makers ; though he was devoid of
any ambition beyond the possession of
certain (to him) priceless books, and free
access to all the treasures of Lord Preston's
library, yet that to know him was a
liberal education. And I am sure it was.
Chiefly with him I studied history, Latin
and Greek, and the classics  the severest
classics of English literature ; and ran
about the woods, and galloped over the
moors, and tore my frocks, and tanned my
face and my hands, and learnt to despise
the telling of lies and the pretending to be
or to know what I was not or did not

know. There, too, also I learnt a somewhat
old-fashioned code of silence and
humility before my elders and my betters ;
the latter beings included in the former
always  learnt implicit obedience to my
kind instructor, and was perfectly happy
till, when I was fourteen years old, I was
removed from Lanehead, and placed in
London, under the charge of one Madame
Prenat, a friend of both Elisabeth and Felix.
Elisabeth meanwhile had become a
widow, and her father-in-law, old Mr.
Reichardt, had come to live with her. All
her happy life was darkened for many
months, clouded for years, by this loss,
but with time the impulses of a naturally
sane and healthy nature reasserted themselves.
Much of the glory and the dream
had departed, but Elisabeth did good, and
fiddled in the after-days as in the former
ones, and continued to be the fast friend,
VOL. I. 13

and the most trusted one, of Felix Arkwright,
her old companion, who, after
working hard for some years in obscurity
and silence, literally awoke one morning
and found himself famous, and from that
hour stood in the very front rank of his
profession.

But this is wandering somewhat from
the point. To Madame Pienat's charge I
was consigned, and well she did her duty
by me. She was the English widow of a
French professor of languages, who had
held a high post in a well-known London
college ; and she added to her income and
pleased her own love of giving instruction
by taking a certain number of young girls
under her charge, on the distinct understanding
that she was to educate and form
them on the principles which she considered
good. I will not here enter Into
a description of those principles, and of

what they practically led to. Suffice it to
say that with many parents they would
not have been popular, since a good deal
more attention was given by Madame to
inner realities than to outside polish, though
she had her views on the latter point, too.

Elisabeth was very enthusiastic for her.
Felix was perhaps not enthusiastic  perhaps
he did not understand or care enough
about it all to Investigate the subject very
deeply. But he believed in Elisabeth  in
her heart and her head ; and if she believed
in Madame Prenat  good ! Such probably
would have been his verdict on the matter.

Three years passed, during which I
studied hard and with eager avidity, inter
Madame Prenat's auspices. She it was who
discovered my one small talent, In the direction
of philology, and especially In that of
the ancient and Oriental languages ; and
she it was who fostered this talent, and

caused me to discard the pursuit of many
other things, usually considered component
parts of a "young lady's" education.

I was happy with Madame Prenat. I
was happier still In the holidays, with
Elisabeth, whose goodness to me never
failed or changed ; but I was In Paradise
on the occasions, few and far between,
always to be remembered, on which Elisabeth,
Felix, and myself were all staying
together at his father's house  once fora
whole week this pleasure lasted. Who
shall describe the high happiness, the unbroken
harmony of those golden days ?
Not I  I felt it in every fibre of my being.
I could not, either then or now, analyse
it, and I have no wish to do so ; but,
looking back upon those days, it seems tome
that in them met together several
things which are perhaps not often found
so combined  friendship, relationship, protectorship,

all good In themselves, and In
this case inflamed by any alloy of jealousy,
distrust, or littleness of any kind. Says
the poet of comradeship and democracy 

The wonder is always and always how there can bea
mean man or an infidel."

And for those who should lead the life
that was mine In those days, the wonder
might well be perennial.

The one cross In my lot. If cross It
could be called, was that M. Felix, as
I had the habit of calling him still, never
would, if he could help himself, allow
me to go and hear him sing in public.
I wondered why, then. I know now. I
learned It by degrees. I knew the
privilege to be mine which most people
would have given a great deal to possess ;
I could hear him sing specially for me, or
for his own immediate circle, almost as
often as I pleased. And I valued this

privilege highly ; but that which I so
delighted in  to see him the hero of the
wildest applause and enthusiasm at great
concerts or festivals, he generally succeeded
in preventing, nor would he ever
give any reasons for this prohibition  tome,
at any rate.

'' Ah, M. Felix, may I not go and hear
you sing to-night ? "

*' No, Ines. I'll sing for you at home,
if you like. Never mind the concert."

But why  but "

Because, my sweet child, I don't choose
it," was all I ever got by way of a reason ;
and though it was always said with a smile
and a kindly look, I knew perfectly well
that it was final. I might, and did comment
upon it frequently, and probably
very impertinently. The impertinence
never disturbed Felix, though it might
sometimes amuse him ; nor did the com-merits,

except on one or two very rare
occasions, chiefly through EHsabeth's interference,
ever gain me the privilege I
longed for. Through her agency I once
or twice knew him to break this rule, and
let her take me to some concert or oratorio
at which he might be singing. I only
dimly knew that he sang in opera also ; at
that time I had not, to tell the truth, a
very clear idea what opera was  I never
heard Felix in one ; and it was only afterwards
that I found he was not particularly
devoted to that branch of his profession.
I discovered it by accident once, overhearing
some one say he had heard him singing
in a certain opera, and what a pity it was,
that, with his voice, he should be, as an
actor, a mere stick. Speechless with indignation,
I looked up at Elisabeth, who
was with me, and who had also overheard
this candid expression of opinion. She

laughed immoderately, and took an early
opportunity of relating the incident to him,
I being present. He laughed too, and
shrugged his shoulders. Then, seeing my
face, red with anger, he laughed again,
and observed that I seemed to regard it asa
personal insult.

They might not think it perfect, but
they had no need to say  a stick ! " I
burst forth.

At which Felix and Elisabeth both
laughed again ; and he, speaking more
gently, told me 

'when people have things to do that
they particularly hate, my child, they may
succeed in getting through them by force
of will ; but  especially in the regions of
the fine arts  they are not likely to be as
graceful or agreeable in their performances
as those who do the same things con more.
Your unknown friends were quite right in

their remarks, whatever your sage head
may think on the subject."

I was silenced, but far from convinced.
I pondered the subject, and wondered
why, if he hated this thing, he did it. It
must be, I decided, because the music was
so glorious, and he loved it so, that in it
he forgot what he called the mummery
pertaining to it all ; perhaps there was a
grain of truth in this assumption. I was
very young, very ignorant and high-flown
in my ideas, and it never for a moment
occurred to me that my hero undertook
this distasteful part of his career in order
to secure the large sums of money which
he could so easily gain by it ; no, I only
wished he would let me see him in his
capacity of " stick ; " but that wish was
never gratified.

Thus, happily, easily, gladly, my life
progressed, till now in this October, just

after I had passed my seventeenth birthday,
and when I had been reminding myself,
with a feeling of wonder, that it was
nearly three months since I had seen
either Elisabeth or M. Felix, I one morning
got a note from him, dated from a
London hotel : 

Dear Ines,

'' If Madame Prenat will allow
it, and if you can be ready for the 3.30
N.W. train to Irkford, this afternoon  do
not deceive yourself into thinking I mean
tomorrow  I mean to-day as ever is,  if
this can be managed, and you will have
your things on, and your traps packed up
ready for some two weeks' absence from
town, I will call for you in a cab about
three o'clock. If Madame will spare me
three minutes of her precious time, I will
explain to her the reason of this short

notice. We go to Mrs. Reichardt's, and
I have wired to her that you are coming
with me.

'' Yours ever,

Felix Arkwright."

Oh, Madame Prenat ! " cried I, rushing
to her, with this document in my hand ;
'' you will not object, will you ? A whole
fortnight ! What can be going to happen ?
And to Mrs. Reichardt s ! Oh, is it not
too, too blissful ? "

Madame took the note, read it, and
smiled her slow, expanding smile, then
looked at me over her spectacles without
speaking. I was quivering with impatience
and excitement.

It is a serious break in the middle of
term," she observed. " It is like a man 
a poor, ignorant, single man, to forget all
such things, and think October as good a
time as August for a holiday''

Ah, Madame ; but if he wishes it "

'* True, if he wishes it," she repeated ;
and if you also wish it. Suppose it were
something very disagreeable to you that
your guardian wished "

I should do it, of course," I replied
stoutly, but feeling the suspense terrible.
I was silly enough to think that she might
oppose the scheme, and that Felix might
submit to her opposition. ''He must have
some reason for it," I went on urgently ;
he knows all about the terms and things
he does, really,"

The smile became grimmer. *' The
poor dear man ! He thinks he does, I
dare say ; he tells you so, but we must not
accept every word from him au pied de la
retire. He has many things in his head,"
she nodded.

'' He must have a reason," I reiterated
stupidly.

'assuredly' she admitted. '' The reason
appears to me quite obvious  in fact, not
to be mistaken."

"Why, what do you mean ?" I asked,
at a loss.

Ah, you will not study the newspapers
as I bid you," she said, laughing ; *' consequently
you must suffer from ignorance,
and, as it is nearly twelve, and Mr.
Arkwright is to be here at three, the
sooner you go and prepare for your departure,
the better." 

I forgot the awe which tempered my
warm affection for Madame Prenat. I
threw my arms round her neck, gave her
one hug and one kiss, and flew upstairs
to my room. I had no time, in the agonies
of deciding what to take and what to
leave, to go into the question, " What can
the reason be which appears so obvious
to Madame Prenat ? The newspapers 

what of the newspapers ? Well, I had no
leisure to think about it. My object was
to be ready at three o'clock, when Felix
should call for me.

And naturally, at three o'clock, I was
quite ready ; inwardly in a state of the
greatest agitation ; outwardly calm and
well-behaved, as I sat in Madame's private
sitting-room, in her presence, and waited
for the expected ring. The ring, when
it came, was inaudible in that room. Just
as I was beginning to have sickening
qualms as to the possible advent of a
telegram from Felix, to say he was prevented
from coming, the waiting-maid
threw open the door, and announced him.
I sprang up, and started towards him, as
usual. What was it that arose between
us, in one brief Instant, between the time
of my rising from my chair, and the meeting
of our hands ? What paralyzed my

tongue, and utterly quenched my usual
voluble joy on such occasions ? I did not
know ; but felt a strange constraint. I
left my hand in his, and looked up at him
silently. He, however, was not afflicted
with any such sudden dumbness.

*' Ready, quite ready, I see," he said,
with a laugh, and stooped, and touched
my forehead lightly with his lips  as he
had always done.

'you look well, child," he said; and
then, leaving me to one side, passed rapidly
on, to greet Madame Prenat, and I realized
that I ought in any case to have waited
till he had done so. '' I hope this is not
against all your rules and regulations,
Madame Prenat," he said, smiling, and
trying to look as if he considered it a
serious matter. 'eat any rate, I see you
have consented, whatever you may think
of the irregularity. Mrs. Reichardt wrote

and told me It was all wrong ; but, you
see, one can't alter the time of the Festival,
even for such an important person as this,"
and he looked at me.

'' That is understood. I was sure it was
the Festival," said she, with dignity and
affability combined.

'festival!" I echoed  "what festival ?"

'' Doesn't she know ? " said Felix, opening
his eyes, and laughing again. " How
very amusing ! Evidently, Ines, you do
not take that interest in my proceedings
which might reasonably be expected from
you.

But what festival ? I'm very stupid ;
but what festival is it ? " I demanded again.
An idea had arisen in my mind as to the
meaning of all this  an idea so laden with
promise of delight and enjoyment that the
contemplation of it quite overpowered
me.

I told her she ought to study the
newspapers," said Madame. And then, ina
kindly tone" The musical Festival at
Kirkfence, child ; the great triennial
Festival. Surely you must have seen the
announcements, for weeks past, and that
Mr. Arkwright is to sing there."

"The Kirkfence Festival! And  are
we  I thought you said we were going to
Mrs. Reichardt's ? "

''So we are  to-day," he said. " I have
to sing at Irkford tomorrow. On Friday
I have to sing at a town near there ; and
on Monday we all go together to my
father's, and stay over the Festival."

"And am I  going  too?" I asked, in
solemn, awe-struck tones.

You  are  going  too," he said, with
a low bow, and an Imitation of my dramatic
tones. " Unless you very much object,"
he added, more briskly.

VOL. I. 14

I sat down again, and clasped my hands,
and looked at them. They were both
smiling  generous, delightful smiles of
goodwill and kindness.

"She does not seem altogether to take
to the idea," said Felix.

'* It is too much  too much happiness ! "
I said gravely. " But I shall get accustomed
to it. I am ready, M. Felix."

'' Yes, It Is high time we were going,"
he assented. *' You will pardon the
abruptness of the summons, Madame ?
I would really have called, If I could, to
explain."

She waved her hand graciously. 'you
have been very considerate, hitherto, in not
interrupting her studies," she said indulgently,
and with the manner of one who,
while judging from a very lofty standard, is
still anxious to give credit where credit Is
due. '' I am not sorry for Ines to have the

break. It will do her no harm, nor will
the change to the bracing air of the North
be bad for her."

He had been gradually retreating towards
the door, and now again said we
had only just time to catch the train ;
shook hands with Madame Pr6nat, and
went towards the stairs.

I bestowed one more embrace upon
Madame, who kissed me with unwonted
demonstration of affection, and hastily
whispered in my ear  

'' All pleasure to you, dear child, but
don't let your excitement get the better of
you so. You look quite pale now. After
all, a musical festival is  a musical festival
and nothing else."

'' And nothing else  that's just it," I
replied, as I rushed downstairs and to the
door, where I found the cab waiting, and
Felix standing by, looking impatient.

Euston Square  as quick as you
can go ! " he told the man ;  and I felt
that I had fairly begun my unexpected
holiday.

WITH LISA.

That was Indeed a most delightful journey
that four hours and a half in the train
from London to Irkford. To my great
relief, the strange paralyzing sensation
which I had felt on first meeting M. Felix
did not return. Why I should have had
even a momentary feeling that he was in
some way changed, I could not tell. It
was ridiculous and unaccountable, I soon
told myself. Here he was, exactly the
same as ever, in the best of spirits, as I
soon became myself, so that we laughed
a great deal at all kinds of small and trivial
incidents on the way, or at the most feeble

kind of jokes or remarks of our own or of
one another's. The newspapers and picture
papers which he had bountifully provided
remained unread. If he had feared that
we should need them to while away the
time, through lack of matter about which
to converse, he had evidently been mistaken.
We talked without ceasing  or
rather I did, principally  during the entire
journey. My spirits had risen immensely.
My confidence in him was quite restored
or perhaps I should say my confidence
in myself,  the conviction that it was all
right  that he was not bored with me or
my schoolgirl platitudes and experiences,
but appeared, on the contrary, to be deeply
interested in what I had to tell him about
my career at Madame Prenat's. In fact,
he put a good many shrewd questions tome
 questions which, if I had not been
really filled with a single-hearted enthusiasm

for my studies, I might have found
somewhat embarrassing.

'rafter all," said I, at last, winding up
a prolonged account of my doings, '' I
enjoy the Sanskrit and Professor Willoughby's
lessons the most."

He looked at me with a curious expression.


"It seems an odd taste," he observed.

'' Why, do you object to it ? " I asked,
suddenly sitting up again, and looking at
him with some apprehension. 

'object! Not in the least, if you

enjoy it."

Oh, I do. And Mr. Ark right your
father, you know," I added, with some
embarrassment" I began Greek with
him I did a good deal of Greek with
him. I liked it better than anything else
that we did. And he said I had some
aptitude some 'scholarly capacity,' that

was what he called It. So, as I liked
these languages so much, and Madame
Prenat examined me in all I had learnt,
to see "

Oh, it's quite right, Ines," he assured
me kindly. " I know Madame Prenat is
like that ; that she has a wonderful gift
for finding out people's best mental
capacities  so Mrs. Reichardt says, and
I believe her. And of course it is good
for the best faculties of the mind to be
trained. Go on with it all, as hard as you
like. We shall be having you a learned
young college donna if there can be such
a thing. It is a little beyond me, that's
all. Things of that kind always were."

Monsieur Felix ! Beyond you ! " I
repeated, in solemn incredulity and indignation.


He nodded.

'' Yes, exactly  beyond me. So my

poor father discovered, and shook his head
sorrowfully over It. I remember his
telling me, when at last he had made up
his mind to it, and found that I had a
voice to sing with, but no powers for
Greek and mathematics  no senior
wrangler capacities  that God had given
and God took away. If It had pleased
Him to endow me with only a lower gift,
it was not for us to complain, but to make
the most of what had been bestowed.
And he was right." 

Felix looked straight at me as he gave
me this information, and I could not in the
least discover whether he was speaking
seriously or sarcastically. I held my peace
and wished I had not said anything about
my own supposed " capacity " for philology
in general, and the Oriental tongues in
particular.

I know it was the greatest comfort to

him, to try his hand on your education,"
he went on. "He found a congenial soil
in which to plant the seeds of his own
great learning  because, you know, he is
very learned. I don't suppose you will
find it all holiday at Lanehead. He will
want to see how you have been going on,
and to hear what you are going to do."

'' I will tell him everything he wants to
know. I wish I could ever do him credit,"
said I, from my inmost heart. But I did
not feel quite so buoyant as before. That
little remark of Felix's, to the effect that
these, my favourite studies, were a '' little
beyond him," oppressed and afflicted me
to a certain extent. There was a little
silence, during which I reflected deeply on
this and kindred topics, and then summoned
up courage to ask 

'' You say you don't mind my going on
with these things. But suppose I worked

very hard at them, and got really to understand
something about them  would you
then call me a blue-stocking, and think mea
horrid prig ? "

At first he looked amused, apparently
on the verge of laughing. Then, seeing
my intensely earnest expression and
anxious suspense, his look changed.

''My dear child," said he, kindly,
calling you a blue-stocking could do you
no harm. And prigs are like poets, born,
not made. No Sanskrit and no Greek
could make you into a prig, and no ignorance
of those things could prevent you
from being one if you had the makings of
one in you. But you are not a prig  you
won't be a prig, ever. We will not think
about it."

'' I am glad you say so," said I, and
there was another pause. His observations
had given me comfort as regarded

the prig and blue-stocking question. There
.was, however, another matter about which
I was anxious to be enlightened.

You are, then, going to sing at Kirk-fence
? " I asked.

'' I am. Mademoiselle."

' Every day ? "

Every day ; generally twice a day."

'' And is Mrs. Relchardt going to all the
concerts ? But of course she Is."

Yes, of course. Can you Imagine her
staying away from one, unless she were
too 111 to move ? "

He smiled blandly at me  would not
help me out  perhaps did not understand
that I wanted helping out.

'' You will never let me go anywhere
where you are singing," I said, feeling a
little afraid of coming to the point. " So
I suppose I shall stay at Lanehead with
Mr. Arkwrlght."

** I fully expect that Mr. Arkwright will
himself indulge in the dissipation of several
concerts  especially those at which I may
distinguish myself. But of course you can
stay at Lanehead if you like."

You know what I mean," I exclaimed
almost sharply. '' Are you going to let
me go to any of the concerts, or not ? "

My dignity was offended. I wished to
look majestic ; I do not know what I
looked, but I felt as if I should burst into
tears very soon. Felix, on the contrary,
appeared greatly amused.

"Why do you offer one a premium to
tease you as much as possible ? " he asked,
laughing. " But I will explain, honour
bright. A great musical festival is not the
same thing as either an ordinary concert
or an opera. I wanted to give you a
holiday, and some pleasure, if I could. I
consulted Lisa, and she solemnly assured

me that nothing would so effectually secure
both for you, as taking you to the Festival,
since you have a curious wish to hear me
sing  in public. So I thought that this
time you should, if you like and wish it, goto
all the concerts."

I sat and gazed at him.

''To all  all the concerts After I've
so often teased you to let me go, when
you said no . . . oh, you are good ! " I
said, quite brokenly, and turned aside
and looked out of the window. What a
happy girl I was ! Then I furtively drew
out my handkerchief to wipe away a tear
of joy, and was somewhat relieved to find
that he was standing up, and, with his
back towards me, was taking our small
packages from the netting ; for we were
now travelling swiftly through the smoke
of Irkford, though it was too dark to see
anything save masses of great buildings.

and lines of twinkling street-lamps far
below.

'there!" he observed, as he laid the
things down on the seat, and could not
avoid catching my eye. '' What a little
goose she is ! " he said gently. And
then  '' Your gratitude is extravagant, my
child. You must not make so much of it."

I made no reply. I had my own views
on the subject. There was no more conversation.
The train glided swiftly into
one of the great Irkford stations, and then
half an hour's drive brought us, just after
eight o'clock, to Elisabeth's pleasant old
house, situated In one of the nearer suburbs
of the town.

That night I dreamed wildly of Sanskrit
and Greek, Buda and music, and
awoke in the morning with the conviction
that I was a thoroughly lucky and
enviable girl.

And this conviction only grew stronger
as the delightful days flew by. We had
gone to Irkford on a Wednesday. On
the Thursday there was the '' Faust "
concert, at which I was present, In spite
of some objections urged by M. Felix.
Elisabeth combated them by an application
of the adage, "In for a penny, In fora
pound," and I maintained a discreet
silence, only too glad to have the chance
of going, and not wishing to spoil it by any
ill-timed interference on my own part.

On the Friday he sang again at a concert
in a neighbouring town. Elisabeth
and I were left to our own devices, and I
had the bliss of hearing full particulars
of the plans for our enjoyment at Kirk-fence
during the Festival week. So perfect
and delightful did these arrangements
appear to me, that I could only draw deep
sighs of profound satisfaction as one detail

after another of them was unfolded tome.


I was sitting on a stool at Elisabeth's
feet, with my hands clasped round my
knees, and I remarked after a silence 

I don't think there is any one living in
the world now, happier than I am. To
have a fortnight's holiday,  to go to the
Festival at Kirkfence  the musical Festival,
to hear such things as Monsieur Felix
told me were going to be performed there,
and " 

'* But, Ines," she interposed, quietly but
suddenly, " I don't quite understand. You
don't care for music to that extent ? "

'' I love music," said I. '' It's like
nothing else, to me. But you mean I
cannot express myself in it. No  that is
true. I cannot, and it often makes me
sad when I realize it."

'' I did not mean that," she pursued,

VOL. I. 15

In the same quiet, conversational tone.
What I mean Is, that there are other
things you take more delight In, as things.
You say you love music. But can you
imagine yourself attacking the difficulties
of music, and grappling with them, resolved
to overcome them for sheer love of the
thing, as you do the difficulties In your
philological studies  your Sanskrit and
Arabic roots, your ParsI grammars, and all
the rest of them ? Because, of course,
Madame Prenat keeps us acquainted with
your progress, and she speaks very highly
of your capacity for languages. You love
these difficulties  they are pleasant to you,
as my violin difficulties were to me when I
was practising six hours a day, or more."

'' No," said I, '' you are quite right  as
usual. I could spend the whole day over
those things  those roots and grammars,
and my beloved Max M tiller,  the more

difficult It is, the more I love to grub It
out, and get to understand it, whether it
will or not. But It is quite true. When
I was studying music for a time, because
I thought he would hate anybody who
didn't understand It, my head ached, and
my heart too ; and after a couple of hours
of It I felt tired to death, simply. How
thankful I was one night, when he had
been dining at Madame Prenat's, and she
insisted on my playing after dinner. I
think she must have told him all about
It, for when I had done, she asked him If
he did not think I had progressed nicely ;
and he gave a peculiar look, and said,
Well, Ines, I am sure you have done
your best ; but if I were you, I wouldn't
bother with the piano any more.' I could
hardly believe It ; and then he said that
without any music at all I should be perfectly
satisfactory, but with a small quantity

of very bad music, I should be dreadful.
And he said I never need touch another
note so far as he was concerned. Yes,
I was thankful."

** Exactly. Then why this extravagant
delight at the prospect of nearly a week of
nothing but music ?  because, you know,
we shall hear of very little else at Kirk-fence.
You won't have much chance for
your linguistic studies, except perhaps a
few hours with Mr. Arkwright."

*' It isn't only the music," I told her,
"though that is a great deal. Though I
cannot play, and cannot sing, and could
not tell when an orchestra made mistakes 
unless they were very bad,  and though I
know nothing about lights and shades, and
all that technical stuff, you know, yet those
great compositions made me feel as nothing
else can  oh, they are glorious ! But the
chief thing, the greatest thing, is that I

am with you and Monsieur Felix ; you are
both so happy in these things, and then I
am the same'*

*you are happy with both, or with
either ? "

' Yes."

Equally happy ? " she asked me. She
was lying back in a low easy-chair, and I
held one of her hands in mine. She had
the most perfectly beautiful hands and
wrists I ever saw. I made no reply to the
question. '' Equally happy ? " she asked
again.

*' Don't ask me questions."

'* Yes ; that question I shall ask. I ask
it again, and you must answer it, Ines, my
child. Answer it before I tell you why
I ask it."

"Well, then, I must tell you the truth.
No, I'm not equally happy with either of
you. I love to be near you  I do love

you"  I squeezed her hand; 'but I'm
happiest of all where he is."

"Why, I wonder?"

Why ? I suppose I could give reasons ;
but I don't know that they would be the
true ones."

You queer child ; what do you mean ? "

I mean, there is every reason why I
should love him better than any one else.
And yet, that is not why I do love him so
much, though I love him for that "

You are getting involved," said she, as
quietly as if we had been engaged in discussing
the relative merits of different
kinds of bonnet trimmings  as quietly as
if she had not known that we were on
dangerous ground.

Not in my own mind. I am quite
clear and decided. You gave the reason
in that little German song you sang the
other day 

' Und sprich, wooer list Liege ?
Sie kommt, und sie list da ! "

I don't know. I only know that it is so.
He has been so good to me that I would
die for him in a minute, and yet  I believe
I would die for him if he had not been so
good to me."

'' Oh, dear ! we are getting quite too
subtle in our distinctions," said Elisabeth,
suddenly. '' We'll turn to something more
commonplace. And yet, Ines," she went
on quickly, " you are right, quite right, to
feel happier with Felix than with any one
else. I don't want to dispute that. I
didn't want to make you say you cared as
much for me as for him. I'm glad your
heart is in the right place. But, darling,
you must never talk about these things so
openly, to any one but me  do you understand
? " She passed her hand over my
head. I smiled as I took possession of it.

'* I never wish to speak to any one but
you of them," said I. And then her
generous words seemed to sound again in
my ears  '' I didn't want to make you say
you cared as much for me as for him ; " and
the feeling which then rushed over my
heart sent a sob to my throat.

'' EHsabeth ! " I cried, kneeling at her
knee, and eagerly looking up into her face,
"what I cannot understand is why /
should be loved by two such people as
you and Monsieur Felix, or cared for by
you. What am I, to deserve it ? I know
you love me. You often say so  your
goodness shows It. I suppose men don't
go about saying they love people  like
me ; but he would not be so good to me
and give time, elis time, and thought, and
care, to my stupid affairs. If he didn't care
for me a little bit. And why ? It frightens
me sometimes, when I think of it, and feel

that I can do nothing, nothing for It, except
stand still and take It all."

''Oh, you can, Ines! You can go on
loving us both. It all helps to make life
sweet  love does, of any kind. Perhaps
you are doing more than you know 
certainly for me  perhaps even for him,
by just being what you are. . . . And now,
we have talked sentiment enough. I will
ring for lights. I have ever so many
letters to write before post-time."

Felix returned very late that night fropi
the neighbouring town at which he had
been singing, and I did not see him again
until the following morning, when he came
down late for breakfast, hoping we had
not forgotten that we were to spend a
happy day in the country.

We have not forgotten," said Elisabeth.
What sort of a concert had you last
night ? "

He shrugged his shoulders, looking very-cross.
'' I detest that sort of thing," he
said. '' I did what I had to do, got away
as quickly as I could, and put the whole
thing out of my mind as speedily as
possible. A lot of dressed up, vulgar
people, who don't care two pins for the
music, and don't understand a note of it,
but who have more money than they know
what to do with, and who go because your
humble servant is the fashion, and they
have to pay a high price for their tickets.
I didn't see one responsive face in the
whole crew."

Wretches ! " I exclaimed emphatically.

Elisabeth laughed gently. " Poor Felix!"
said she. " Come, Ines, we must get ready
to go and see this wonderful young man
and his fiddle."

How we went to Moor Isles, what we
saw and did and heard there, has already

been related. Except as a pleasant day,
spent with my two dearest friends, and
as an occasion on which I heard Felix
sing, as I loved to hear him  at his best, 
the visit did not make very much impression
on my mind, though, afterwards, I
got into the habit of dating a good many
things as having happened before, or after,
'' that day at Moor Isles." I pass on to
what followed.

CHAPTER IV.

FESTIVAL.

The Sunday morning, the day after our
visit to Thornton-In-Ravenslde, was spent
In a desultory manner. I remember it
chiefly from the fact that Elisabeth played
for Felix the accompaniment of a new and
very difficult song, which he was to sing
at the Festival, by some one whom they
both called "poor Hopkinson," the singing
of which song was to make or to mar him.
I do hope It will make him, Felix,"
she said, pausing. '' He Is a true musician,
and I wonder you aren't a little bit afraid
of standing up with ' Thou who hast slept
all night upon the storm,' when you reflect

upon his anxiety, and remember how fickle
these audiences are. Suppose they just
take it into their heads to dIsHke it, or,
worse still, to be profoundly indifferent toit?"


He shrugged his shoulders. '' If Hopkinson
is anxious, all the more reason why
I should not give way to any such feeling.
I mean to do my best for him  I can no
more."

*' No, that's true," said she ; and as they
tried It over, I realized that It would
probably be either a great success or a
great failure. It was unlike anything I
had ever heard before.

In the evening Elisabeth took us to
her People's Recreation Hall, where she
fiddled and Felix sang, and thereby a
great many people were put Into high
brood humour with themselves and each
other.

On the following morning, the Monday,
we started for Kirkfence, and early in the
afternoon arrived at Lanehead, a rambling
old stone house, situated in one corner of
the great park belonging to Lord Urmston,
whose wonderful library was in the care of
Felix's father, old Mr. Arkwright. It was
a sweet spot, with a garden opening atone
side into delightful rough wood and
moorish grass ; while from the front windows
there was a noble view, commanding
distant Wharfedale hills  the sentinels, as
it were, which kept guard at the entrance
of the enchanted land of moor and fell,
castle and abbey, wood and rushing waterfall,
which to some partial minds are
covered by those two little words, '' the
North."

I had my wish, and went to all the
concerts  there were seven of them  and
heard Felix sing at most of them. When

he was not singing, he occupied a place
between Elisabeth and me, and listened to
the others.

Though I look back upon that time
with pleasure, and with a sense that
pleasure and not pain predominated in it,
yet the two incidents which stand out in
my mind as chiefly connected with it all
are painful  more painful than pleasurable,
that is.

The first of these incidents took place
on the Friday morning, the third day of
the Festival. This morning had been
devoted to the bringing out of a new work
by a popular composer, to the production
of which four of the greatest singers of the
day had devoted their best efforts  two
ladies, one a world-renowned soprano, and
the other a scarcely less celebrated contralto
; a tenor, the tenor, if there was one,
and Felix Arkwright. The baritone part

happened to be the most important one of
all. Felix had created it, and had surpassed
himself, so they all said. I sat and listened ;
even I could understand that the work, if
not on a par with those of Beethoven,
Schumann, or Handel, was still a far from
ordinary composition. That was a life 
something like a life to live, I decided, as
I watched the rapt attention with which
they listened to his production of the new
and striking music : to be able to stand
up, one single man before all that vast
concourse of people, looking for all the
world like one of themselves  no better,
no worse,  not as good, many of them
probably thought, for there were proud
people present, high up in the ranks of
society and of wealth. But one and all,
when he stood up and took his part, and
sang before them, became as nothing, soit
seemed to me. He had the key of a

portal leading into another world ; not only
had he that key  some of them, perhaps,
had as much as that  but when he had
passed that portal, thrown it open, as it
were, and invited us to enter with him, he
was clearly perceived to be one of the
great princes of that world, ruling by
divine right  an artist, one of the kings of
art.

Elisabeth and I sat rather near the
front that morning  too near to hear perfectly
well, but not too near for great
enjoyment ; we were, in fact, on the front
row of the regular reserved seats. But
so many places had been applied for by
persons coming after the concerts had
begun, and by strangers passing through
the town, that the committee had caused
chairs to be placed here and there in the
pretty wide space which lay between the
orchestra and this first row of reserved

VOL. I. 16 .

seats, and these were all occupied, to the
number of fifty or sixty.

Elisabeth was fully occupied with her
copy of the music, following the work in
its completeness, both orchestral and vocal.
She took no notice of what passed around
her, save to look up now and then with a
smile of pleasure at some particularly good
effort of orchestra, chorus, or colonists. For
my part, I had declined her offer to let me
look over the music with her ; I was quite
content to sit there, in a delightful, blissful
dream, seeing vaguely the great hall ;
dimly conscious of the mass of people
behind us ; carelessly watching, almost
without knowing that I did so, the exquisite
and elaborate morning toilettes
and gorgeous bonnets of the two lady-colonists
 but turning aside every now and
then to give a glance at Felix, and to
think how very good he had been to procure
me this pleasure.

He sat next to Madame Reuter, the
great contralto and celebrated beauty ;
renowned, too, for her love of good company,
her ready wit and social powers. I
did not feel quite at ease, somehow, as
I saw her bend a little towards him, raising
her music before her face, and tell him
something  in the nature of a joke, apparently,
for her handsome shoulders shook
violently, and her face, when it emerged
from behind her music, was red ; a look of
mirth was on it still ; she lifted her lace
handkerchief and wiped tears of enjoyment
and amusement from her long dark eyes.
He turned to her, surprised, attentive, and
amused also, it would seem, when he
understood what it was all about. He too
laughed, with great enjoyment  not behind
his music, but openly, heartily, though of
course silently. She looked at him, with
her head a little thrown back, and a sort

of expression that appeared to say, '* Now,
did you ever hear anything Hke that ? "
And he laughed again, whereupon Madame
Reuter appeared almost overcome by her
feelings of merriment, and they both
seemed to be having rather a good time of
it. She turned her fine eyes to him, and
flashed her dazzling smile upon him  so it
seemed to me ; and I did not like it  no,
I did not like it, though what business of
mine it was, was more than I could have
said. Why should he not enjoy good
company ? And Madame Reuter was
reported to be particularly good company.
Tired of watching this (to me) displeasing
scene, I turned my eyes resolutely
away, and cast them first upon my own
long gray suede gloves, which I was wearing
with a rather recherches toilette, one
chosen a short time ago by Madame
Prenat with considerable care, and approved

of by Elisabeth as the very thing
to wear at the morning concerts. It was,
I remember, all gray  composed of thick
soft silk, and some fine thin woollen stuff
mixed with it, which fell in soft folds ;
and with this went a hat of white and
gray with many soft, plumy feathers.
There was no hue brighter than gray
in all the costume, and Elisabeth had
laughingly said, '' Ines Grey'' and patted
my shoulder before we had set off In
my hand, I recollect, was a black fan,
and this fan I furled and unfurled, and
tried to keep my eyes from again, with
anxious curiosity, seeking Felix and
Madame Reuter.

Looking up at last, in a desperate effort
to find some counter-attraction, my own
eyes were encountered by another pair 
a pair belonging to a young man with a
pale, handsome, clean-shaven face, and

a very grave, responsible expression.
Next to him sat a young girl, and beyond
her an old gentleman with a ruddy countenance
and white hair, a high nose, and a
determined expression. They formed one
party, and occupied some of the extra
chairs I have spoken of. Seemingly they
were only casual visitors  the men were
both in somewhat easy-going garments,
and the oirl, who resembled the old gentleman,
and had scarcely any of the distinction
of the younger one, wore a travelling
costume of gray tweed made with severe
plainness, high starched white linen collar
and cuffs, and a little gray toque of cloth
and silk crowning her thick flaxen hair.
She was not looking at me, but it was at
her that I looked, with critical indifference.
Her round, good-humoured, rosy face was,
I decided, far from intellectual. It was
set into an expression of highly proper

and Intense want of interest in the music,
the people, and the proceedings in general.
She looked straight before her ; quite
serious, quite modest ; quite and entirely-uninteresting.
I hardly knew why I
watched her, or her party. Gradually,
however, a peculiar sensation took possession
of me. I felt as if I had somehow
got outside my own body, and was gazing
at it from a little distance. She was not
like me, nor I like her, I knew. I had
not that round face, nor those rosy cheeks ;
my hair had none of that flaxen tinge ; it
was, as I often regretfully confessed to
myself, of a dull bronze hue. The only
point in which any resemblance between
us existed was in the eyes. She had not
the pale blue eyes that might have been
expected to go with that hair and complexion,
but fine, rather dark gray ones.
I also had rather dark gray eyes. I could

see them In my glass, and Felix sometimes
called me '' Gray-Eyes." They were very
like hers. And as mine once more met
those of the young man, I saw, startled,
that his also were gray  just the same
kind and colour. They were, then, brother
and sister. They were so young that
the old squire, or whatever he was, looked
too old to be their father  probably their
grandfather, I decided.

And at this juncture there was a slight
pause. The chorus, which, almost without
my knowing it, had been singing loud and
long, rustled gently down Into their places,
and Felix stood up. I forgot the party of
strangers, and looked at him again, as he
rose, with a slight smile still on his face ;
and his eyes too fell upon the strangers.
The smile faded instantly  a curious expression
came over his face  it seemed to
grow a little hard. Then another kind of

smile, not an altogether pleasant smile,
crossed it. Then, from the strangers, he
looked directly at me, caught my wide-open
eyes eagerly scrutinizing him, all at
once seemed to remember himself, gave
me a nod and a friendly look, and then,
losing sight of us all, turned to the conductor,
with his eyes fixed upon his baton,
and in another moment there came the
notes of a magnificent aria in the new
"Jason" composition  a composition
founded on the words of a well-known
living poet 

O Death, that makes Life so sweet ;
O Fear, with mirth before thy feet !
What have ye yet in store for us,
The conquerors, the glorious ? "

It was superb, I felt, as I listened with

rapture to the ever-recurring strain 

*' What have ye yet in store for us  for us  in store
for us?"

I, too, forgot it all  all the people, the

place, the time, and everything else, In
listening. The scena, of which this was
the first part, was a rather long one.
Madame Renter had to take a part In It.
They sang divinely together, these two
great artists  sang in a style to make us
all forget time and place, and whether It
was night or day, and all our outside
Interests and passions and concerns, and
to think and feel only of and with them
and the great tragedy that they unfolded
to us. With the end of their duet came
also the end of the first part of the concert.
It was a long and trying piece of
work, and when It was over, there came
a pause of half an hour for rest and
refreshment. Every one rose, rustled and
bustled about. Chorus and Instrumentalists
fled, after the prolonged applause was
over ; the great orchestra, lately so
crowded with life, now lay revealed.

empty, save for the scattered desks and
silent Instruments.

I sat where I was, dreaming, and wondering
what It all meant  If It were really
all summed up In the words of Felix's
opening song, '' O Death, that makes Life
so sweet ! " I did not think It was death
that made life so sweet, but just life Itself,
strong and full, brimming over with eagerness
and interest. I could not believe
that it would ever end, this continuous,
undulating sea of music and melody, and
of the grandest Ideas and emotions. And,
filled with these thoughts, I leaned forward,
with my chin on my hand, and slowly
opened and shut my fan as I meditated.
I was roused by a touch on my shoulder 

'' Ines ! "

I looked up, startled, and confronted
Felix ; he was looking at me, and his hand
was on my shoulder.

'' Yes ?" I said.

'* I see you are in a brown study, or a
blue dream, or something of the kind ; but
just pull yourself together, my child, and
take my arm, and come with me for two
minutes. I want you."

I rose, looking at him, I dare say, with
tragic solemnity of aspect, for he laughed
and said he had no evil designs of any
kind ; he wanted to introduce me to some
friends  with great emphasis.

Elisabeth looked at us also, in inquiring
surprise. He apologized for leaving her,
but said he would speedily return. And
then he drew my hand through his arm,
and I mechanically walked on by his side,
gathering in the fact that he was a little
bit excited himself, for he had become
slightly paler than usual, though he was
perfectly quiet and self-possessed.

It was not far that he led me ; up to the

old gentleman, the young gentleman, and
the girl, whom I had already been observing.
The two young people were
standing up, looking about them ; the old
man remained seated. The brother and
sister, I saw, watched us as we approached
them ; the girl with mild curiosity, the
young man with greater Interest. And as
we drew nearer, the old gentleman, turning
his head, caught sight of us also ; his eyes
remained fixed upon Felix, and a deep
purple flush spread all over his face. He
looked angry, embarrassed, annoyed in the
extreme, but not surprised. He half rose,
as if driven from his position by some
sudden blow  than sat down again. His
eyes dilated, became round and angry,
and glared upon us, so it seemed to meas
we approached. I could not help
glancing once more towards Felix. He
was smiling slightly ; his good-humoured

provoking expression had again come over
his face. We now stood close to this
group of three. FeHx, looking directly at
the old man, bowed to him, and addressed
him, and I listened.

*' It is at least ten years, Mr. Grey, since
I had the honour of meeting you, and
though I have not forgotten you in the
least, I may have to recall myself to your
recollection   "

'not at all," was the reply, after a
pause, during which he seemed to struggle
with himself, and then decide to brave it
whatever "it" might be  out. 'remember
it perfectly. Did not know you
were to be here. I don't know much
about these things ; we heard there was a
festival going on here, and my granddaughter
wished to hear some of this new
music, and "

"Yes!" smiled Felix, in his most amiable

tones ; while I felt myself growing rigid,
partly from surprise, partly from dismay,
as the facts of the situation suddenly flashed
into my mind. Felix had never made any
concealment about my relations, and the
fact that when they had refused to receive
me, he had, after returning to England
from Paris, sought an interview with Mr.
Grey, and said he wished to adopt me,
and Mr. Grey had sullenly said he might
do as he pleased in the matter  that, for
his part, he thought the school he had
proposed was provision enough for me.
This, I realized, was my grandfather, as
well as that flaxen-haired girl's  she and
the youth were my cousins  the children
of my father's elder brother. I had heard
of them vaguely. I had been far too
happy and satisfied with my lot as it was,
ever to speculate with any interest or
curiosity about them. The scene appeared

to be a revelation to them, as well as tome.
They gazed at Felix with open-eyed
astonishment, and turned to their grandfather,
as if asking for an explanation.

I hope the new music has not displeased
Miss Grey," Felix went on
blandly ; and as my hand began to tremble,
and he felt it on his arm, he drew it a little
more firmly through his, glanced kindly at
me, and went on 

Judging from the only member of your
family with whom I am intimately acquainted,
I should think that music is not
very much in their line. This young lady,
at least, has little knowledge of it."

I was breathless  I felt as if things
would soon begin to swim round me, but
I recollected Felix's words, " Pull yourself
together," and I did so, and met the unwilling,
angry eyes of the old gentleman
Vvith a steady, unflinching gaze.

" Let me present her to you ! " Felix
went on, still smiling. '' This is your
granddaughter, Ines Grey  and I may
take the same opportunity of thanking
you for not refusing to leave her in my
charge ten years ago. The trust has made
me a happier man ; it has given joy to
others as well as to me, and I don't think
she has been a very unhappy girl  have
you, Ines ? " He laid his hand upon mine,
and looked down at me with the kindest of
smiles. I felt that so far I had betrayed
no outward emotion  inwardly I was
trembling like a leaf in the wind. I
clasped my other hand tightly over his,
and said, somehow, my own voice sounding
strange to me as I heard it 

You know I have never had an unhappy
hour  thanks to you."

I stopped ; if I had tried to say another
word, I should have burst into a storm of

VOL. I. 17

nervous weeping. I clung to his arm and
was silent.

'' Ines is a truth-telling person. I never
knew her to utter the shadow of a falsehood,"
said Felix, pleasantly. " It may
gratify you to know for yourself that she
is not unhappy  it 77tay. I always impute
the best motives, in dealing with others.
But I see this encounter has been a little
too much for her  too much of a surprise,
so I will take her away again. Good-day.
I am delighted to have renewed our
acquaintance."

He was turning, to my intense thankfulness.
I managed to make some kind
of an inclination of my head, and to feel
a sense of profound relief that it was allover
; when the young gentleman, who
had been watching the proceedings with
the most lively interest, spoke to Felix.

'' Pardon me an instant. I think, sir "

turning to his grandfather  "it is only
fair that you should allow us to make our
cousin's acquaintance, and you might
explain the circumstances to us afterwards.
At any rate, I shall feel much hurt if I am
forbidden to do this."

There was a pause. The scene was
becoming unbearable to me. At last Mr.
Grey, with a mighty effort, said 

''If you wish it, Maurice. As you say,
I can explain later. This young lady is
your cousin, Miss  Miss "

Ines," observed Felix, obligingly.

'' Miss Ines Grey. And this," he added,
turning to me, *' is my grandson, Maurice
Grey  and his sister, Maud."

Maud Grey looked at me, not with
much emotion of any kind, it seemed tome.
Inasmuch as there was something
irregular in the scene, she disapproved of
it ; otherwise it concerned her but little.

She inclined her head slightly to me,
without speaking, and drew nearer to her
grandfather. Maurice, with a smile of
great sweetness, which wonderfully lighted
up his pale face, held out his hand.

'' Will you shake hands with me, Cousin
Ines ? " he asked.

I looked speechlessly at Felix, who surveyed
the young fellow with an expression
of great goodwill, and laughed a little ashe
said 

*' Why do you hesitate, child ? " And I
at once put out my hand, but silently.

I only knew vaguely that I had a
cousin somewhere," said the young man,
very seriously. '' This is not a time forgoing
into explanations, but, if I am
allowed, I shall have the honour of making
your further acquaintance, and that of
Mr. Felix also."

** That will give me great pleasure," said

Felix, as he took out his card-case. '' That
is my club. I shall be delighted either to
see or to hear from you there. Ines, you
have had enough. We will go back to
Mrs. Reichardt."

With a bow, and a general " good
morning," he this time effectually led me
away, and back to Elisabeth's side. The
whole scene had been played out in less
than ten minutes. I felt as if it had taken
a year. I sat down, and Felix stood
before us, looking at both Elisabeth and
me.

"You were a good girl, Ines," said he,
very good. I could not have wished
you to behave better. Don't worry about
it. It s all right. Don't think about them
again."

I was speechless. A fear had entered
my heart. He went on to Elisabeth, with
an amused laugh 

*' I happened to catch sight of this
child's affectionate and solicitous relatives,
and I could not resist taking the opportunity
of showing her to them  especially
to him. Bless my life ! It has been too
much for him  they are going ; he and
the demoiselle  the girl In gray, Lisa, 
she and Ines seem to have a similar taste
in colours," he laughed again. " The
youngster remains. He has designs upon
our further acquaintance. I beg your
pardon, sir ? " he added, discovering that
his father was saying something to him.
For my part, I had drawn close to Mr.
Arkwright's side, and clasped my hands
over his arm.

'' I hope, Felix," said he to his son,
'' that you have not been Inflicting needless
pain on any one. Ines looks none
the happier for this scene that you have
put her through."

'rit is all right," I whispered hastily,
and Felix smiled.

Pain ! " he repeated. '' What pain
could be connected with the fact of a grandfather
making the acquaintance of our Ines ?
It ought to be pleasure unmixed."

'sought to be, perhaps," said his father ;
and Elisabeth, though smiling, shook her
head a little.

If you are all going to censure me,"
said Felix, " I had better withdraw ; and,
indeed, I can't stay any longer. But aren't
any of you going to have anything  no
wine, or biscuits, or sandwiches ? "

We all declined, and he then said again
that he would withdraw himself from our
disapproving glances.

"No one is disapproving," I interposed,
in a loud whisper. "It is all right. I
said so before ; and I shall be all right,
too. in a minute."

Of course !" he said, and went away.

I steadily averted my eyes from the
direction of those three chairs, though I
knew that two of them were now empty.
I would not look. I did not wish ever
again to see the people who had occupied
them. But I was vividly conscious that
the young man, Maurice Grey, who was,
it seemed, my cousin, and wished to make
my further acquaintance, remained in his
place, and, without looking at him, I was
aware that he looked frequently at me.
But when the concert was over, and we
left the hall, he did not again accost us.
We went away at once, driving out to
Lanehead, to take lunch and rest, before
going down again to the evening performance.


It was this evening that Felix was to
sing the song which had been composed
by *poor Hopkinson," as he and Elisabeth

always called this young composer. They
had discussed it so much that I had grown
deeply interested in it all myself, and had
almost forgotten my unwelcome relatives
in the excitement of expectation, when we
went down again in the evening. '' Poor
Hopkinson " was somewhere in the hall, it
was understood. As we took our places my
eyes fell once more upon those three chairs.
I began to remember again. But the
persons who had sat in them that morning
were not there in the evening. The chairs
were occupied by three men ; one, by his
wild appearance, dishevelled hair, and not
too dazzlingly white linen, an aesthetic
critic ; the second, a youngish-looking man
with laughing eyes and a nearly bald head,
who had a small drawing-book, and was
evidently taking views of the chorus and
some of the colonists. Felix seemed to
know him ; he caught his eye and nodded

to him, whereupon he promptly began to
take FeHx's portrait, while some of the
young ladies of the chorus giggled, as
young ladies sometimes will, with small
reason. The third man was a natty-looking
little Roman Catholic priest, who had the
score of the music that was being sung,
and who appeared to appreciate it all
thoroughly, and sat with his eyes half
closed, drinking it in, but who woke up
thoroughly when at length the last number
of the first part of the concert was reached,
and Felix stood up to sing a song, entitled
in the programme, " The Man-of-war
Bird."

There was a little stir and bustle. The
programmes rustled about ; murmurs were
heard. " Man-of-war Bird  Whitman,
Hopkinson,  who is Whitman ? " (This,
it must be remembered, is a good many
years ago.) '' Who is Hopkinson '. Hopkinson

 oh ! don't you know ? He has
done some good things, but no one knows
anything about them. Might as well have
done nothing at all. Well, let s hear this.
I wonder what it is ? "

If only it isn't too intellectual for
them ! " Elisabeth said in my ear, with
something like a groan. '' That's all I am
afraid of. You know, after all, they are
not intellectual, for all their ravings about
classical composers. I shall not look at
him, Ines. He really means this, and I
don't want to disturb him."

I nodded. I was of the same mind.
The song was accompanied by the full
orchestra. Some strange phrases and
modulations, which instantly took my
fancy, were heard, and then Felix sang
this song 

Thou who hast slept all night upon the storm,
Waking renewed on thy prodigious pinions,

(Burst the wild storm ? above it thou ascended,
And rested on the sky, thy slave, that cradled thee,)
Now a blue point, far, far in heaven floating.
As to the light emerging here on deck I watch thee,
(Myself a speck, a point in the world's floating vast).

Far, far at sea,
After the night's fierce drifts have strewn the shore

with wrecks,
With reappearing day as now so happy and serene,
The rosy and elastic dawn, the flashing sun,
The limpid spread of air cerulean.
Thou also reappeared.

Thou born to match the gale (thou art all wings),
To cope with heaven and earth and sea and

hurricane,
Thou ship of air, that never fullest thy sails.
Days, and even weeks untired and onward, through

spaces, realms gyrating,
At dusk thou looks on Senegal, at morn, America,
That shortest amid the lightning-flash and thundercloud.

In them, in thy experiences, hadst thou my soul,
What joys ! what joys were thine ! "

He ceased to sing, and I was sure that
Elisabeth was looking and feeling anxious
as to the verdict of the public, for whom

she had hoped It might not be too intellectual.
Fortunately, we had not very
long to wait for the said verdict. It
certainly was intellectual music, but perhaps
It had in it also the mysterious quality
which constitutes popularity, whatever that
may be. Perhaps the audience were disposed
to refuse no favour to their present
supreme favourite, Felix Arkwright. Sofar,
he had carried everything before him.

He did so once again. There was a
momentary pause ; a terrible one to Elisabeth
and me, and perhaps to '* poor
Hopklnson " also. Then the applause
burst out ; It was loud, long, and persistent,
and Felix made no ado about yielding to
the cries for a repetition of the song. He
sang It again, rather better than before 
there was a perfect fury of delight and
applause ; and loud cries for the composer,
who at last did emerge from his corner,

and confront the now vociferous and
delighted crowd. And he also shook
hands with the singer, with a look I shall
never forget. It was the end of the
Friday's concerts, and '' poor Hopkinson's "
reputation as a composer of songs was
made. We departed, rejoicing.

CHAPTER V.

IN THE WOOD.

We departed, rejoicing, as I say, but not
together. Old Mr. Arkwrlght and I went
back to Lanehead, in company ; Felix and
Elisabeth were both bidden to a supper-party,
given by a common friend, who was
that night entertaining a large number of
the artists who had sung or played. We
arrived at the quiet old house, said goodnight,
and went to our respective rooms.
I fell asleep very soon after I had gone to
bed, and had not the faintest idea at what
hour the other two returned. But, though
I fell asleep soon, as one may, very often,
even in a state of high nervous excitement,

Still, the excitement was there  the excitement
arising from a combination of great
and long-sustained enjoyment and pleasurable
emotions produced by the noble music,
and the fear and subtle pain and apprehension
mixed with it, contributed by the
episode of the morning  the discovery of
my, to me, most unwelcome relations ; the
recollection of Maurice Grey's look, which
seemed to tell me that he, at any rate, did
not consider the matter at an end. All
these things were still in my mind, and
began to agitate my brain the Instant I
opened my eyes In the morning. I had
slept for a good many hours, and woke
very wide awake indeed. As soon as I
was conscious, I knew that sleep had quite
fled. I lay still for a little while, my hands
clasped behind my head, my eyes fixed on
the dimly visible ceiling of my old-fashioned
bedroom, with the long beam running

across the roof. It must be very early in
the morning. By-and-by the Hight grew
stronger, and presently I heard a clock
strike six. Then a gleam of sunlight crept
through the blinds, and played upon the
wall and ceiling. Then I heard the stealthy
step of the matutinal housemaid creep
downstairs, and presently distant sounds
as of grates poked out, pails carried about,
and other household noises. I closed my
eyes again, with the reflection of the sunbeam
still in them, and almost immediately



there arose in my brain the distinctly visible
picture, with all its details complete, of a
woodland glade, the trees of which were
covered with fiery autumn tints : the grass
of it was soft, fine, and short. Banks of
fern, bracken, and autumn gorse spread
away into remoter glades, and I saw myself
standing beside a silent, dark-looking pool,
part of whose surface was diversified with

VOL. I. 18

brilliant green slime and weeds. This
picture was vivid enough ; so vivid that
with a smile I opened my eyes ; said half-aloud
to myself, " The very thing  just a
little surprise for them at breakfast," and,
unclasping my hands, I promptly arose,
pulled up the blind, and looked forth on a
glorious dry October morning, precursor
of an equally glorious day. There had
been frost in the night ; it lingered yet on
the grass and on the leaves of the autumn
trees, but the sky overhead was of a
magnificent deep blue, and from the
meadows and hillocks all around the mist
was rolling away in soft, silvery wreaths.

I felt so strong, so happy, so capable of
going through life with credit and renown,
and of not yielding to adverse circumstances
; it was a glorious, comforting mood
to awaken in. I dressed as speedily as
might be, put on a little fur-trimmed

cap, seized my warm plaid, opened my
door softly, and as softly stole downstairs.
Sometimes old Mr. Arkwrlght rose early
and took a morning walk. I hoped I was
beforehand with him on this occasion, and
it seemed that I was. Perhaps he was
tired with the unwonted excitement of the
past few days, and had slept later than
usual. All the life I saw was in the form
of Mary the housemaid, who, with broom
and pails, was just coming through the
hall, with the obvious intention of cleaning
the steps.

Law, Miss Grey ! " she observed,

seems me.

Open the door, Mary, as quietly as
possible. I am going for a walk before
breakfast. And if any of the others comedown,
do not say that you saw me."

In another moment I was out, in the
delicious sharp morning air, the gravel of

the drive crunching frostily under my feet.
It was not very far to the spot I wanted
to reach. A ten minutes' walk through a
field, rough and moorish, brought me to
the gate leading into the woodland I had
dreamed of; and here it was, even more
beautiful than my dream of it. Such
handiwork of nature ; such forms, such
tints, such traceries  such lights and
shades, melting into and out of the dim
blue mist and into the sunshiny spots ! I
knew it well, and felt happy and at home
there. London  the gray square, the
dim-looking house, the outlook upon buildings
and streets  Madame Prnat and my
professors, all seemed very far away, and
belonging to another world.

The wild flowers were over  all but a
few autumn yellows and reds, but there
was this endless variety of beautiful leaves
and twigs, grass and mosses, fading ferns,

delicate tendrils  and the pond, just as I
had expected it to be ; I knew it from
many an old holiday ramble  many an
hour's rest by its banks on sunny days,
when the coolness of the wood had been
grateful. It was still and dark where the
water showed ; brightly green and yellow
where it was grown over with slime and
weeds. The pond, somehow, was not as
delightful as when I had last seen it ; the
rest of the surroundings were, if anything,
more so.

I had wandered about the glade for
some little time, picking here a leaf and
there a twig; when suddenly, at a little
distance in the wood, I perceived a treasure
a cluster of harebells, and not far away
a few late tufts of heather. With a joyful
exclamation, I made for them, gathered
the flowers till not one was left, and then
turned in search of fresh plunder.

Well ! " said a voice behind me. '' So
you are here, after all, though I could
hardly believe Mary's statement to that
effect. What has brought you out so
early ? "

I was still stooping over my flowers,
and by the time that I had started in my
surprise, and had had time to feel the
jump that my heart gave, I had had time
also to pull myself together as on a former
occasion. I stood up, looked round, and
said tranquilly, as I stripped some leaves
away from my bouquet 

'why, did you think I should never
find out such a place as this ? I don't
know why, I am sure."

'' Oh yes, I will trust you to have found
it out long ago. The only thing is, there
are times and seasons for everything.
Seven o'clock in the morning "

Is a good time, and so you seem to

think," said I. "And yet, I should
suppose it was much worse for you than
for me, for you have got a voice to take
care of, while I have none  of that kind."

Listen to her, telling me to take care
of my capital," he remarked, half laughing.
"Then you didn't know that I have been
here, and generally a good deal farther,
every morning since we arrived ? "

No, indeed, I didn't," I said, honestly
astonished.

"It is one of my old country habits.
One loses it in town sometimes, unavoidably,
but here  there's something that
makes it worth one's while to renew it."

And is this your favourite spot ? " I
asked sentimentally.

"It is a favourite spot of mine," he
said decisively. " But please tell me what
you are doing here."

I came because I awoke very early.

and remembered how beautiful the leaves
and things were here, and I thought I
would gather some  for you and Mrs.
Reichardt  and for Mr. Arkwright  for
breakfast, you know."

For breakfast ! What an extraordinary
notion ! Is thy servant an ox that he
should eat this thing ? "

For your plates, that was all," I explained,
holding up a small bunch of harebells
and leaves.

*' For our plates, there will probably be
bacon, or fish, or something  or game.
My father understands a real Yorkshire
breakfast," he said meditatively.

'' You know perfectly well what I mean,"
I argued ; " but, if you like, I will explain
it to you  Madame Prenat always says we
should try to explain ourselves  it often
shows how very vague and formless was
the thought behind our equally vague and

formless words. Therefore, what I mean
is this, Monsieur Felix ; a present of
flowers is perhaps of not much intrinsic
value, but it may mean affection and
esteem  at any rate, it is a little kindly
attention. Autumn leaves are as beautiful,
I think, as the most splendid flowers. I
love to look at them. I thought that you
and the others  might also like to look
at them. I was going to make three little
bouquets, and lay them on your plates,
just to show that I had been thinking of
you. That would not have prevented you
from taking bacon upon your plates afterwards
"

I prefer a hot plate for bacon," he
said, after looking at me attentively ; "cold
plates for bouquets ; hot plates for bacon."

"Very well," I said, trying to cover my
nervousness  for I was nervous, though I
could not have told why  by a prolonged

Stream of talk. ''If you insist upon being
so very exact, I could have laid the
bouquets beside the plates  then, whether
they had been hot or cold would not have
mattered. It seems to me that it shows a
want of respect for a beautiful landscape,
and for lovely flowers and leaves, to be
talking incessantly of bacon and hot
plates."

Well, it was not I who brought it on.
When you are told that you are to have a
bunch of leaves and grass for your breakfast,
you have to show that you don't
intend to submit to any such thing. The
worm will turn. . . . But," he added, leaning
with his back against a tree-trunk, and
half smiling as he looked at me, " there is
another use to which your pretty things
might have been put  in my case, at any
rate. I feel almost hurt that you have not
yourself proposed it."

'' And what Is that, pray ? " I asked
curiously.

''A buttonhole, for this morning's concert."



*' This  mine ? Do you mean that you
would, really ? " I stammered.

Would what ? " he asked, beginning to
laugh.

"Would wear it, if I arranged it for
you :

'* Why, certainly. I have to sing ' The
Old Manual ' this morning. Surely autumn
tints would be most appropriate for that
part."

'' But," said I, holding out my leaves
and harebells, and looking critically at
them, "these are poor little things, after
all. When you get down to the Hall, you
will find, as usual, a lot of lovely flowers 
hot-house flowers  ferns, roses, and "

Well, yes. They generally are thereby

some means. Did you ever know me
to use any of them, for that purpose ? It
is uncommonly kind and disinterested in
whoever sends them ; and so thinks the
Matron of the Children's Hospital here,
only I felt as if I were posing under false
pretences when I got a note from her
yesterday, thanking me for my lavish
generosity to them in the matter of flowers.
She shall have whatever there may be,
this morning ; and I will have your autumn
leaves, Ines  if you will give me them, that
is, of course." He stretched out his hand.

'' If \ will give you them!" said I,
striving to conceal my delight in this
arrangement. 'await  they are not ready
yet. I will arrange them after breakfast.
But are you sure that when you see lovely
Dijon and Marshal Noel roses, you will
not "

Va pour la feuille morte !'' he said

decidedly. *' There, you have gathered a
great wisp of stuff. You will give me a
little bit of it, and I shall wear it, and
think with pleasure of Ines and of the old
pond, in which I managed nearly to drown
myself twenty years ago. . . . Now, Ines"
his tone suddenly changed into one of
gravity  '' I hate subterfuges and pretences.
I have something to say to you,
and I followed you here ; I asked Mary
if she knew whether you were down, and
she told me in which direction you had
gone. There's only a short time, and it
has to be done. I go to London tomorrow".


I had expected this. By the chill that
fell upon my heart now, I found how I
had also dreaded it.

*' And before I go, I have, as I remarked,
something to say to you  something which
I expect you will hate, just at the moment."

If It is anything you want me to do, I
am sure I shall not hate it," said I, stoutly.

"Yes, you will. And, first, I'll ask you
a question. Do you trust me quite and
entirely, and believe that what I do, in
your concerns, I really believe to do for
the best ? "

*' Yes, I do, and always shall."

'' Very good  yes, you look as if you
meant it. You like Madame Prenat, don't
you :

I love her dearly."

'* That also is well. She is so clever
that I am rather afraid of her, though I
must admit that she has never made me
feel my inferiority in any disagreeable
manner."

What do you mean ? "

'what I say. And you find yourself
happy and contented with Madame Pre-nat
? "

"Y  yes." My heart began to beat, I
hardly knew why, and I drew a little
nearer to him. He was silent for a
moment, not looking at me. Then, slowly,
and yet kindly 

'* Ines, I am going to place you in
Madame Prenat's hands, and out of my
own, for the next two years."

He then looked at me with a very
determined expression, still leaning against
the tree-trunk, and plunging his hands into
his pockets. I did not quite take it in at
first, and said, in some surprise 

'' But, surely, I am in Madame Prenat's
hands, and have been, for the last three
years r

" Yes  yes," he said, rather hurriedly.
'' But you forget. I said, ' out of mine.' "

I gazed at him, wondering what in the
world he meant, and finally asked him.

*' I wonder you don't see what I mean.

I mean, you will stay with her  I have
such confidence in her doing what is right,
and we  you and I  will not  I mean 
why, in Heaven's name, do you look at mein
that way  as if I were a maniac ? "

'' I don't know what you mean. Tell
me quickly," I said, In a voice which
sounded strange to myself. But I did
know what he meant. It had flashed ina
moment into my mind, and I felt as if
the knowledge paralyzed me.

'' During that time, I think it will be
best for you to put me out of your mind
altogether. I don't say, forget me  I
don't want you to forget me  but live and
act as if I were not there. I do not intend
to see anything of you. It is only for a
short time  you will not be twenty at the
end of two years. But two years at your
age make a great difference. You want to
know my reasons for it, I dare say "

Only if you wish to tell me them," I
interrupted, in a voice which somehow
would not rise above a whisper. ** I said
I trusted you, and I do, but "

But what ? "

'' One may trust, and yet feel as if one
were being killed," said I, dropping my
hands at my sides, and clenching them
tightly.

'' Killed ! " he repeated, with a not very
successful attempt at a laugh. *' I am
going to tell you just what I think you
ought to hear. Ines, I am so much older
than you that I might almost be your
father ; you heard what I said to Mr. Grey
yesterday  how glad I was that he had let
me take care of you all this time. That is
true, but it does not hinder the fact that
I think you have become too dependent
upon me  morally, I mean, child, of course,"
he hastily added, with a shocked look, as

VOL. I. 19

he caught sight of my face. 'you let yourself
depend too much on my judgment, and
refer things too much to me, even in your
own mind  yes, you do. I know it. I
wish you to get out of that habit, if possible,
and to that end it is that I mean to commit
you entirely to Madame Prenat's charge.
And I wish her to refer less to me in her
dealings with you and your concerns  do
you understand ? "

Yes ! Oh yes, I understood ; and, what
is more, I did not misunderstand. It
never entered my head to think that he
meant all this otherwise than as he had
said  for my good, entirely for my good.
I could, an' if I would, have twisted his
words bravely into stabs of unkindness,
but it did not occur to me to do so. He
had thought the matter over ; evidently in
the midst of his numberless engagements
and occupations he had found time to do

SO. The decision he had come to was, tome,
an agonizing one. That it was right,
I never doubted.

'* As for our not meeting," he went on,
*' I have my own good reasons for that
too, which I do not think it necessary to
tell you. You may trust them. Do you
agree, then ? "

If you wish it'' How was it that my
tongue declined to utter anything that I
really wished to say, and could only in
measured tones speak the coldest commonplaces
?

"//"I wish it! That is not trust, Ines.
That is submission, because you can't help
it  just the one thing that I hoped I
should never see between you and me."

Please forgive me," I said, all in the
same toneless kind of voice. " It is
because I am surprised  it is not because
I don't trust you. I am not to see you

for two years. But I may write to you 
to tell you how I get on ? " (This I proposed
as if it were an irresistibly tempting
offer.) " And you will write to me ? "

'* Better not. No  we will not write."

By this time I had got to the resolution
to agree absolutely to every condition he
laid down. That was trust. It seemed
to me that he was dissatisfied because I
did not display also satisfaction. It was
beyond my power to give that.

*' No ? " I said. '' And never hear anything
about you ? You don't mean that ? "

'* I think it would  well, if you ever
come here in the holidays at any time you
would hear of me  enough and to spare."

'rand Elisabeth "

Well, if she were in London, she would
go and call upon you. And you could
write to each other, you know. I don't
want you to go and stay with her."

"We could write to each other  for two
years. And when the two years were over
if ever they did get over "

** Oh, we should meet, of course. My
purpose would have been accomplished,
and I have little doubt that you would
thank me for having come to this decision.



''I wonder why?" I said, beneath my
breath. Then aloud  '' I should stay with
Madame Prenat "

'' And by attending to all her wishes,
show me that you do trust me, Ines."

I stood still for a moment, and then
lifted my hand to put it within his.

'' I will do exactly as you say," said I.

'' But do not go so white  as if I were
wishful to make you utterly miserable," he
said beseechingly.

I am sure you wish nothing of the
kind. I know you wish me to be happy.

And I know you are doing right, if this is
what you have decided upon. But I cannot
pretend that I Hke it," I said passionately.
'' ril bear it. I'll do what I ought, but "

*' But my sweet Ines will show her old
friend that she thinks him a brute, all the
time," he said, in so sorrowful and pained
a voice as I had never heard from him
before. The agony that seized me at that
moment was beyond all description. I felt
hysterical as I forced a smile and retorted 

'' Because she cannot bear to think of
not seeing you for two years, that shows
that  I  think you  a brute ! Have I 
have I behaved wrongly in some way ? " I
asked, going nearer to him, and looking
at him very earnestly.

No, you have not," he said emphatically,
and flushing crimson. " Why will
you persist in looking upon it as a punishment
? I cannot explain to you. There

are things one can't explain. Trust me !
I wonder how much oftener I must say it.
And it is the only thing to be said, too."

'' I trust you  I do. But I cannot sing
for joy. You seem to think I ought to do
that as well. What can I say ? What can
I do ? "

You can smile, or try to. And you
can go to Madame Prenat, and make yourself
happy with her."

I can work with Madame Prenat," I
said, the first gleam of light breaking ewer
the darkness which encompassed me. '' I
can work. You have nothing against
that?"

Nothing. Only don't overdo it. You
are different from some girls, Ines. Now,
while we are about it, I'll give you the
only advice I know of, about how to guide
yourself  just the same that I should give
to a lad if I were sending him off to school.

You will find that though Madame may bea
good friend to you, yet you will have to
depend a great deal on your own good
sense and right feelings in some things.
And all I can say, is, never tell a lie, byword
or by deed. Never forsake a friend ;
never think, whatever you are working at,
that you can do it perfectly, and don't
need to trouble yourself any further about
it. If you ever give way to that, you'll find
yourself outstripped by the most stupid of
your rivals, when it comes to a test. What
is it, besides ?  fear God and honour the
king  you can translate that for yourself.
Walk straight, and you'll come out all
right at the end. I trust you absolutely.
You have never disappointed me before,
and I am sure you will not now. Come
back to the house. Heaven only knows
what time of day it has got to."

I moved, to do as he suggested. I had

been standing, rigid, in the same place, all
the time, save for approaching one or two
steps nearer to him. When I came to
step forward, I found myself feeling as if I
should fall down. I turned away from him,
leaned my hands and my face against the
trunk of a silver birch which stood hard
by, and cried and sobbed silently and
bitterly for a minute or two, till he laid
his hand upon my shoulder, and once more
said, in a voice of pain 

You said you trusted me ? "

'' So I did so I do. But this " '

And what is trust for, if not to carry
one through some such time as this ? " he
asked.

'* It will carry me through  by-and-by.
Go back, and leave me. I'll come
directly."

''No, certainly not," he answered quickly.
'' You will come back with me, now." He

took me by the shoulders, and gently, very
gently, turned me round. I could only put
my hands before my face, still crying.

'' You are determined to make it hard
for me, whatever it may be for you," he
suddenly said, very quietly, but in a tone
which instantly dried may tears, and caused
me to look up sharply. I saw his face,
quite white, and, as it seemed to me, stern.
He looked at me, and then exclaimed,
Ines ! Well, I ought not to have chosen
just this time to do it, I suppose. I'm a
fool. So Madame Prenat would tell me.
So Elisabeth doubtless will tell me. No
doubt you are faint and famishing, as well
as miserable. And it is cold ! " he added,
looking round him with a slight shiver,
though the sun was shining more brilliantly
than ever. *' Come, my  Ines. Give me
your hand and come with me."

I dried my eyes, and gave him my hand.

He drew It through his arm, and gently
stroked my cheek, saying softly, "You
have always been so good. You will not
fail me now."

And I felt that I should not. Though
the full desolation of the parting was yet
to come, I felt that I should not fall. Arm-in-arm
we walked a few paces, and then
he said suddenly 

'' You win not fall. But, my child, you
grieve far too much about It. Ines, when
you set up a human being in your fancy, as
you, in your enthusiastic young heart, have
set me up, and will see nothing imperfect
In that human being, it means disappointment
and disgust and disillusion. In the
end, as surely as a bright sun means daylight."



Don't," I said. " Let me think what
I like."

I suppose you will think what you

like, at any rate." He sighed. It was
not often that I had heard FeHx sigh.

*' Did you mean to leave me here tomorrow
? " I asked, as we drew nearer the
house.

'' I thought so. Why cut your holiday
short because I am obliged to leave ? "

*' You are going to sing somewhere on
Monday ? "

At the concert, in London  yes.

Concerts every night next week, and then
the opera begins at the ."

Don't think I'm tiresome if I ask you
to let me go back with you tomorrow,
instead of staying here. I would rather
go straight to Madame Prenat, and begin
my work again."

*' Surely the fresh air here would do you
more good "

Please ! " I said persuasively.

So be it," he replied. '' See that you

wire to Madame while we are In KIrkfence
this morning. The train tomorrow leaves
at one o'clock'*

We went Into the garden, Into the house,
and I ran upstairs to take off my things
before going In to breakfast. What a
white, tear-stained face was that I caught
sight of as I passed my looking-glass ! I
bathed it roughly with cold water, scrubbed
It with a stiff towel, and, having thus
heightened its beauty, repaired to the
breakfast-room. Felix was there, already
seated. I said good morning to Mr. Ark-wright,
kissed Elisabeth, who pressed my
hand in silence, and went round to my
place. From that hand-pressure, and from
the fact that neither Elisabeth nor Mr.
Arkwright asked me a question, I concluded
that Felix must have given some
brief outline of the state of affairs.

Lying on my plate was the greater

portion of my collection of leaves, ferns,
and wild flowers. Feeling my face crimson,
I looked across at Felix. He smiled.

"You dropped them," said he. 'you
never saw me pick them up ; but I do not
wish to lose my little bouquet, If you will
still give It to me."

It was kind ; kindly meant and kindly
said, but It made me feel as If my heart
would break, and also as If Felix Ark-wright
were farther away from me  more
apart than he had ever been before.

Despite all my efforts at composure.
It was a sad and silent meal. I hated
myself for not being able to behave as
If nothing had happened  for having to
look dull and sad, and so distressing the
others. But I could not be glad, or look
as If I were glad. I had not yet had
time to begin any speculations as to Felix's

reasons for pursuing this course with me.
I felt only the crushing grief of the thing
Itself We were so late at breakfast that
I had no opportunity of speaking to
Elisabeth before It was time to go down
to the concert. I sat It out, but, oh, with
what different feelings from the happy ones
of the past few days ! *' For two years 
two years  two whole years ! " was the
refrain which for me ran through all the
music ; and when at the end the whole
audience, with chorus, colonists, and orchestra,
stood up and sang " God Save
the Queen ! " as It seldom is sung, the
triumphant notes seemed only to peal forth
the one dreadful fact  for two long, weary
years I shall not see him, speak to him, or
hear from him. And who knows what
may have happened before it is all over ?
I was glad I had chosen at once to go to

London. I could work, I knew, but I
could not play, under the load of this
trial.

And to London I went, with Felix, on
Sunday afternoon. We had not so much
conversation as on our journey down to
Irkford ; though we did talk a good deal.
I would fain have left the hateful topic out
of our discourse altogether kept it as a
good grim skeleton, and dragged it out
and examined it whenever I wanted to
work myself Into a state of misery about
anything. Not so Felix. He was far too
sane and right-minded, too direct in his
notions, to do any such thing. He talked
about it openly ; asked me point-blank
how I should chiefly employ my time,
because, he said, he should like to have
some idea as to what I was doing with
myself. He said cheerfully that Madame

Prenat knew all his wishes on the subject ;
he reposed entire confidence in her, and
I might be sure that whatever she suggested
would receive his sanction.

To all of which I, of course, assented ;
and then it seemed but a moment while
the dreadful cab jogged us through the dim
gray streets and squares to the door of
Madame Prenat's house  another moment
only before we stood in her drawing-room,
while she greeted us, self-possessed, calm,
and with the suggestion of a reserve of
power beneath her quiet manner which
impressed me anew after each absence
from her.

I will not stay  no, I will not sit
down," said Felix. " Good-bye, Ines.
Lay my admonitions to heart. Ask
Madame Prenat if they are not good. We
shall meet again, when it's over."

VOL. I. 20

o

He took my hand, looked at me for a
moment, as I stood silently before him.

'' Auf wiedeisehen ! '' he said, stooping,
and kissing my cheek gently. " Good-bye,
Madame. I leave her in your hands."

He touched her hand also, and was
ozone, without looking back at me.

You have chosen to come to me at
once, Ines, and to begin work " " Madame
asked me, after a pause.

** Yes, Madame."

Good ! I have much for you to do.
There are certain conditions laid down by
Mr. Arkwright. Those must receive our
first consideration. I will explain them to
you later. For the rest, he gives us carte
blanche to study what we please. A man
in a thousand ! " she concluded, in a sort
of pious rapture. 'rand now, my child,
to your room. Your luggage will have
been taken there. We dine at half-past

seven. Two friends of mine are coming.
Do not dress more than usual."

Silently I turned away. Madame was 
determined to have no drivelling
sentimentality  and she was right.

CHAPTER I.

HOW LUCY WENT TO CHURCH.

While Ines Grey was all unconsciously
going through her love-story, drinking of
its mingled sweetness and bitterness, without
distinctly realizing what the mixture
was, which was yet so intoxicating and so
irresistible, there was another love-story
quite as vivid, quite as intensely lived
through by the actors in it, going on in
and around Moor Isles. The one day
there whose history has been given was
merely a parenthesis in the sentence, as it

were  after It was over, Brian was quickly
engrossed again and more deeply than
before in the persons and in the passion
which had for some time been overmastering
him. That day which had been
so bright and so apart (if he had ever
read " Poems in Prose," he might, in thinking
of that day, have recalled that perfectly
beautiful and perfectly sad one, '' How
lovely and fresh those roses were ! " but
he was unacquainted with that little gem
of fancy and genius)  that day was over,
gone ; had passed away into the limbo of
things which have been and are now no
more. Brian might also have laid to heart
the song which Felix had sung as his last
contribution that night, in which came the
words 

Sie singe, Herr des Hauses, verschliess cas Thor,
Days night die Welt, die Alte, dring ins Gemach."

On the contrary, Brian threw wide open

the door, and *idle Welt, die Alte " was
soon, very soon with him again, as it had
been before.

Lucy Barraclough had gone down to
Moor Isles that evening, unaware (despite
Alice Ormerod's suspicion) that Brian was
not alone, but dimly conscious there was
some hostile influence at work against her,
and with her vanity hurt by Brian's absence
from her side, of nearly three days' duration.
She had resolved to bring him back
to his allegiance, or, in her own phraseology,
*' to know the reason why." Before
finding that he had visitors, she had
mentally accused Alice Ormerod of being
the cause of his defection, and that must
not be allowed for a moment. She soon
found out the real state of things, but that
made no difference. He had been recalcitrant
 he must be brought once more
into a state of due submission and humility.

The first step towards this consummation,
of course, was to drag him away instantly
from his own abode and bring him to
Jessamine Lawn to spend the evening
there. How they went thither in company
has been related. When they had been
assembled some little time Jim proposed
a game at billiards  for why should not
the proceeds of a railway grease manufactory
be metamorphosed into the cheerful
semblance of a green-cloth covered table
of the best make, and charming ivory balls
clicking pleasantly and sharply as they
flew about hither and thither, under the
blows of the cues ? Brian was no very
brilliant performer on this particular instrument
 his hands, and his head too, were
better adapted for evoking moving strains
from his violin, but he loved to think he
could cope with the best of them, and if he
ever lost  why, of course, one had to lose

sometimes. But to-night he won. He
was excited ; he talked and laughed a good
deal  he made some wonderful flukes, but
he won. They played for money, but
not for very high stakes. When the playing
ceased, Brian was the gainer of some
three pounds, ten shillings, part of which
he had won from Jim Barraclough, and
the other part from a friend of Jim's, who
had appeared on the scene soon after they
had begun to play  one Richard, or, as he
was generally called, " Dicky," Law ; an
oldish young man, with a very delicate,
smooth complexion, which would have put
to shame that of many a dainty girl ; sandy,
almost red hair  not much of it  and
whiskers, handsome regular features, and
blue eyes  very curious eyes were those
of this dubious Dicky Law  they were
rather near together, and had the most
remarkable trick of always seeming to slide

into position when they met those of other
people. And sometimes, when he had
been silent for a considerable time  for he
was not loquacious  if one happened to
look at him, one would hind his eyes just
sliding away from one's face. He had a
channel business near Hollowley, and was
sprung from exactly the same class as the
Barracloughs themselves ; but by hook or
by crook, he had contrived to be very
much better educated than they were  to
be, in fact, so far as mere modern knowledge
eyes, well-educated. He had none
of their broad, vulgar tricks of accent and
expression ; he had a great many books,
went in for the improvement of the masses,
the elevation of women, the extension of
the franchise ; was likewise what by a Scot
would be called "theologically free," and
had many other advanced notions on
civilization and social questions ; and yet

there were people  Brian was one of them
to whom the brutal ignorance of the
Barracloughs  their horizon bounded by
the amount of money they could turn over
in a year, and their sublime indifference
to every amenity of life of the finer and
more refined kind  were less displeasing
than the more polished personality of
Dicky Law. Brian was well aware of the
failings of the Barraclough mankind ; he
went there to see Lucy, not them, and he
often wondered why Law, who professed
to despise ignorance and vulgarity, was
such a constant visitor at the house. He
had more than once expressed his wonder
at the fact, and his dislike of the man, to
Lucy, who shrugged her shoulders and
said 

*' Oh, he's awfully stupid, is Dicky !
But Jim says he plays a good hand at
whist, and his billiards aren't so bad either.

And Jim must have his whist and his
billiards, or his pool, you know. You
needn't notice him."

Yet Brian had allowed himself to be
drawn into playing with him this evening,
and, as has been said, retired from the
contest the winner of a small sum. Spirits
and water and cigars were going freely
while the game went on, and Lucy was
present the whole time, even playing one
short game with Brian, while the other
two professed to look up some business
details relative to the state of the Irkford
market the day before. Brian lost that
time. Lucy played a very neat little
game, but, as she sweetly said, it was for
love, not money, so it did not matter. It
was late  after one in the morning  when
the party broke up, with a promise on
Brian's part either to come again on Monday,
or else to meet them at the "Swan,"

in Hollowley, for pool. He went away to
his own house, leaving Law behind, he
having arrived to spend what was there
called *' the week-end "  Saturday and
Sunday nights  at Jessamine Lawn.

When Brian had gone, Lucy, giving
way to the feelings of weariness and
sleepiness which had for some time almost
overcome her, yawned long and rather
loudly, stretched out her arms, and remarked


'well, if you two fellows mean to keep
it up any longer, I don't. Lm tired, and
I'm going."

Stop a bit, Lucy," said Jim, with a
meaning look ; " wait till I come back."

No, I shan't," she answered, with a
sudden, swift decisiveness, as the sleepiness
vanished and a look of displeasure came
over her face ; and, before he could leave
the room, she was at the door, waving her

hand slightly to them, and saying " Goodnight,"
she vanished.

You're not half sharp enough," said
Dicky Law to his friend ; and it was
astonishing to see what a black look
spread itself over his delicate pink and
white complexion, and came into his light
blue eyes.

Perhaps I didn't want to be," retorted
Jim, indifferently. " I don't know what
you may be made of, but I've had a long-day,
and so has Lucy, for that matter.
For God's sake, drop the game for a few
hours, and let's get a bit of sleep. There's
all tomorrow before you."

He spoke sulkily. A slight, gentle
smile crossed the face of the other man,
but he said nothing. Jim busied himself
in extinguishing the oil-lamps with which
the table had to be lifted, for it shoes
without saying that gas was unknown at

Thornton-in-Ravenside. After doing this,
he took up a smaller lamp which stood on
a table near the door, and led the way
into the hall. Every one had gone to bed
but themselves. Jim turned out more
lights, leaving, however, one or two on the
different landings and staircases, and they
finally parted, going into their respective
rooms. After which, the stillness of the
remote country  an absolute, unbroken,
palpitating stillness  settled over Jessamine
Lawn, as over every other house in the
neighbourhood, and the small hours of the
Sunday morning gradually grew larger as
the inmates of the house slept, or waked,
as the case might be.

    

The Barraclough men were not at church
on Sunday morning ; but Lucy was. She
seldom missed attending divine worship
once, at any rate, each week. Fresh as a

rose, with her pale face and dark eyes,
and her exquisitely neat attire and most
becoming bonnet, she left the house betimes,
and lightly tripped the half-mile that
lay between Jessamine Lawn and the
parish church of Thornton-In-Ravenside.
No venerable, hoary fane, this, but an
entirely Philistine and entirely hideous
structure, erected in some year of the
thirties. Its style could hardly be called
debased, because it had none to be debased.
It was, If one may say so, a specimen of
insignificance so extreme as to be intense.
Its interior rose from insignificance Into
the more positive quality of hideousness.
Naked white walls, with here and there
a ghastly black marble slab adorned with
the usual white relief urn, and weeping
willow, and floppy looking female figure
engaged In industriously filling the urn
with solid marble tears ; long, plain windows

filled with diamond panes of a spotty,
greenish-white glass ; immense, high-walled
pews, the object of whose structure appeared
to be to conceal their temporary-inmates
as much as possible from one
another, as though they had met for some
object of which they were thoroughly
ashamed, and were desirous of, unseen,
accomplishing their fell purposes. And
yet it would seem that they had an uneasy
consciousness all the time of being observed
; or perhaps it was the existence of
that observation which had caused them
to build their pew-walls so high  but, at
any rate, on the wall on each side of
the altar, there was a large black board,
with a portion of the Ten Commandments
inscribed upon it in golden letters, and at
the top of each board was depicted the
similitude of a huge glaring eye, also in
gold, with fierce golden rays streaming

away from and around It  the most utterly
frightful, senseless, and hideous illustration
perhaps ever offered by the most hopelessly
perverse misunderstand of symbolical art
that ever existed  the ecclesiastical architect
as he flourished during the early years
of the reign of her present Majesty.

Lucy sat in the great square pew "belonging"
to Jessamine Lawn, and exactly
confronted one of the gilded eyes. She
had gone to Thornton church now for
some three or four years  the Barracloughs
were not natives of Thornton, only settlers
therein  and she knew that the eye was
there  indeed, she had often eased at It,
and when the sermon was honor and unin-

o

interesting, she had amused herself by following
its gigantic curves, and trying to
count the rays that emanated from it.
She had often succeeded In soothe herself
almost or quite to sleep by this process.

but It had never occurred to her how
hideous the thing was or how ludicrous.
That was not the kind of elinor that vino



treated or amused Lucy Barraclough.

So here she sat on this particular Sunday
morning, as she had often sat before, with
her little Russia leather case of books,
ready to follow the parson in all his proceedings,
and quite ready, too, to watch
the different members of the congregation
as they dropped in. It was not a numerous
congregation ; Lucy knew them all by
sight and by name, if not personally, and
as, one after another, they appeared, her
eyes rested on each of them, and the
expression of her face was unchanged,
though in her mind there was excitement,
and the constant wonder, '* Will she come ?
Will he come ? I hope they will  but he
won't  no."

VOL. n. 22

At last her eye fell upon two persons
just entering ; the upright, stately figure
of Alice Ormerod, and the somewhat
stooping, but still huge and stalwart stature
of her father.

*' Ah ! there sie is ! " Lucy said to herself,
giving a little involuntary pat of
satisfaction to the bow of her bonnet-strings.
She did not think Brian would
be there, and, indeed, he put in no appearance.
Alice and her father sat where she,
almost unseen, could observe them ; and
she did so, and saw how Alice's proud face
was sad, and paler, too, than usual. The
sight gladdened her. It was soothing to
her feelings, inasmuch as it showed that
her interference the evening before had
produced a distinct effect, just where she
had wished that such effect should be
produced. She knew perfectly well that
Brian's heart was her own ; that Alice had,

as she put It, " no chance In the world "
with him. She knew that, by Hating her
little finger, she could beckon him In the
flash of an eye from Alice's side to her
own. All this she knew perfectly well.
But she knew also that Alice loved him,
while she, Lucy, did not ; and though she
had no faintest capacity In herself for a
high, unselfish love, yet she dimly felt that
such a love was In Its way a powerful kind
of thing, and she was jealous of It  jealous
that another should possess a weapon
which she would never know how to handle.
Conscious that Alice was mistress of this
great instrument of unselfishness, Lucy
was angry and suspicious of every word
spoken by Brian to Alice, of every civil
look he might give to the young woman ;
and the discovery, the night before, of
their helpful, sociable Intercourse, had filled
her with a deep, uneasy anger and vexation.

She had at once resorted to her
own weapons  those which she could
wield with ease and address  had draofSfed
Brian away from under the very eyes of
the other woman, whose love made her
shy and miserable in the presence of one
who knew it and despised it. Lucy had
not seen how Alice, with sunken head
and drooping shoulders, had slipped away
from Moor Isles to the privacy of her own
home, but she had guessed at her departure.
That, however, was not enough.
Alice must be punished, and Brian must
be punished, for presuming to be together
without her knowledge, and for having
common acquaintance unknown to her.

*' If that's the consequence of his going
to these precious concerts," Lucy decided
within herself, as she knelt on her knees,
and half-sang, half-said, the Lord's Prayer,
after the parson  '' if that's the consequence,

he will just have to give them up. I'll see
whether I can't make him. We will try
which wins  the concert, or an evening in
my company. I remember Alice saying
how very good it was for him to go  how
it took him amongst different kinds of
things and people. I dare say. We will
see whether some of his friends up at
Thornton are not enough for him. Those
two women yesterday"  Lucy's face flushed
" she had been making up to them, I
could see. As if they were her sort. I'm
certain she prevented him from asking me
to meet them. Very well  ' For Thine is
the kingdom, the power and the glory, forever
and ever. Amen.' "

When the service was over, she walked
out of her pew and down the aisle, looking
almost quakerism in her soft, dove-coloured
gown of silk and cashmere, though the
crimson carnations in her bonnet were of a

more worldly taste. Lucy understood very
well the colours and the shapes of things
which best suited her, though she micrht be
somewhat left to herself occasionally in the
matter of some particular style of garment
for a given occasion. But this morning
the colour, cut, and material of her costume
were all irreproachable, and, as she
cast a side-glance upon the three stiff-looking
daughters of the Squire of the
neighbourhood  the Misses Dunstan, each
of whom wore the colour least suited to her
particular style and complexion, she felt at
once a contempt for them and a content
with her own more satisfactory arrangements
which, if she had been a cat, would
doubtless have expressed itself in a loud
purring, but which in a woman, and one
who was in church, had to be satisfied
with looks only.

Hapless Misses Dunstan ! Yet there

were persons who found them delightful ;
and all Lucy's pleasure in the superior
elegance of her own attire, all her consciousness
of how much richer her father
was than Mr. Dunstan, did not quite
sweeten the fact that, while these ill-dressed
young women took no notice
whatever of her  Lucy  she noticed all
three, and their father as well, give the
most friendly of nods and smiles to Alice
and Farmer Ormerod. They would exchange
some talk outside the church, she
knew. And she was not going to stand
by and see it, so she walked a little more
quickly, but with no appearance of unseemly
haste, to the door ; she stepped
outside, and was about to proceed serenely
on her way, when she encountered a pair
of gliding blue eyes, and the voice of Dicky
Law said 

*' So I'm just in time, it seems, to have

the pleasure of walking home with you.
Quite in luck's way, I declare ! "

The smile faded from Lucy's face. A
very grave expression succeeded it ; it was
not in a very spirited voice that she made
her retort.

So you've actually managed to be up
and dressed, and at the church door by
twelve o'clock ! I should think no one
ever heard of such a thing happening to
you before."

To have the pleasure of walking home
with you, as I said," he repeated, smiling ;
and, without asking further leave, walked
on by her side.

They left the churchyard, and turned
into the road in the direction of home.
When about half-way there, they passed
Brian's house, with the farm just beyond it.
All was still and quiet, with the stillness
of a country Sunday morning. Through

the lattice-work blind which was before
the lower part of the kitchen window, was
dimly discernible the respectable figure of
Sarah Stott, moving to and fro, bent on
household concerns. Other sion of life
there was none. Lucy raised her eyes,
slackened her pace, and looked openly and
with interest at the little old mansion.

It's the nicest old house there is anywhere
about here," she observed reflectively,
yet decidedly. '' It's the sort of
house I could do to live in. Somehow I
don't care for new houses, like ours."

Then why don't you make haste to
settle yourself there ? " asked Dicky, his
lips growing a little tight.

Lucy shook her head, with a little laugh.

If I could settle there alone  but not
with Brian Holgate," said she, with the
appearance, at any rate, of the most artless
candour, " with his fiddling and his singing,

and his temper never two days alike  and
nothing to do," she added, with rare
practical wisdom, *' except squander the
bit of money that his father left him 
no."

Then, If you don't mean to have him,
why don't you let him alone ? " asked
Dicky again.

I don't know that I meddle with him.
It's he that doesn't let me alone," said
Lucy.

You know very well what I mean."
Well, perhaps I do. You mean, why
don't I make him go about his business ?
No ; that would just mean turning him
over to Alice Ormerod "  she looked with
no friendly expression Into the farmyard
which they were passing  " and that," she
added, with quiet vindictiveness, " I never
will. With her piety and her pride, setting
herself up to be better than other people.

That Alice Ormerod is beyond everything
with her airs  telling Brian that he was
going to ruin by coming so much to us.
She meant to me, I know. And he
believed her too, and does believe her."

*' Perhaps because it's true," said Dicky,
encouragingly. *' But do you mean he
told you what she had said ? What a fool
he must be ! "

I never said who had told me. I
know she said it ; and true or not, FU
never forgive her ! " said Lucy.

And how long do you mean to carry
on this kind of game  playing fast and
loose with him and with me ? " asked her
companion searchingly. " How do you
know that Miss Ormerod  she's a handsome
girl, by the way  would make three
of such as you  how do you know she
would look at your precious Brian ? ''

There was an unpleasant sneer in his

voice. Lucy's laugh was no pleasant as
she answered  

'' Pooh ! I know her sort. She's In
love with him. That means, that everything
he does that's wrong and silly Is
not his fault, but some one else's  mine,
because he happens to be in love with me.
If he happened to be In love with someone
else, it would be that some one else's
fault."

You seem to have gone Into the subject
pretty deeply."

'' I have. I've been obliged to. She
shall not have him unless   "

Unless what ? "

Dicky spoke calmly, and Lucy was not
looking at him at the moment, or she
might have seen how ferociously his eyes
glided to and fro in his excitement. She
was pursuing her own train of thought 
that which had been in her mind during

the whole of the morning service at
church, and she spoke her thoughts now,
without much reference to Dicky, except
that she knew talking to him about Brian
staved off the necessity of having to listen
while he talked about herself to her.

Unless he got to be worthless, as you
might say not worth looking at or speaking
to ; then she might take him, for aught
I cared.'

You mean. If he'd lost house and land,
such as he has, and his money, and
couldn't hold up his head, and was low
down, like  like this," said Dicky, kicking
a tuft of grass by the roadside, and unconsciously
quoting almost the exact words
of another  a greater, but not a more unscrupulous
than himself, the artless and
accomplished Veltel Itzlg.

Yes, that's what I mean," said Lucy,
tranquilly. " If he was too sick and sorry

to care who took him up, and If I knew
that he'd given me the best he had to give,
why then she might have him, when he
was worth nothing to any one else. But
there," she added quickly, " what nonsense
to talk of such things ! They don't happen
nowadays. Brian has his house and his
property ; he's comfortable enough In a
small way  except when I make him uncomfortable.
But I wish him no harm ;
it's Alice Ormerod I can't do with.
Nothlno would hurt her so much as for
him to be hurt."

*' Oh, you women!" ejaculated the
virtuous Dicky. "To wish to see a girl 
like that Alice Ormerod brought low, who
has never done you an evil turn, except
by caring a little too much for a gaping
young Idiot, who you think ought to be
dangling at your apron-strings. It's
horrible  perfectly horrible ! "

He shook his head over the enormity
of it. " Now tell me, Lucy," he added, as
they paced about in the garden of Jessamine
Lawn, for they had now arrived
there  " tell me one things  when will
you marry me ? "

'' Oh, there's time enough to talk about
that ! " said Lucy, uneasily. She always
was more or less uneasy in this man's
presence  at any rate, when she was alone
with him.

When your fine young Holgate, or
your dear Miss Ormerod, is biting the
dust ? " he asked, in quiet, gentle tones.

She was silent.

Eh ? " he persisted.

'* What nonsense ! That would mean-never,"
she said impatiently. " Biting the
dust ! What expressions you use ! As if
there was anything to make them bite the
dust ! "

'still, It's a kind of beacon in the
distance  a sort of goal to keep in view,"
he persisted, smiling gently. *' So shall
we say then, if not before ? "

''Oh, if you like!" she said, laughing,
but not very joyfully.

Very good ! " he said, with sudden
decisiveness in his tones. " Remember,
I shall hold you to your word."

You are not meaning any harm to
Brian ? " Lucy inquired, with vague distrust.


"Oh, none! Vm only meaning to get
the woman I want for my wife as soon as
possible. All's fair in love and war." He
laughed. "What is Holgate to me 
except a stupid bore, without any brains,
like all these musical creatures ? Feeling
they do everything by feeling  they
never reason, by any chance."

You are not to do him any harm,"

repeated Lucy, trying to speak with a bold
carelessness, " or I'll have nothing to say
to you."

She meant what she said, and yet at the
same time she was glad of something that
staved off any nearer talk of her getting
married to Dicky Law. It was, as she
well knew, a match that would meet with
the fullest approval and satisfaction in her
home circle, and it was a match which, she
supposed, she would sometime or other
make. But not just yet  and she did not
care to talk about it just yet.

'' Why can't you let him alone ? " Dicky
asked again. '' Surely you have got all
from him that you want. He's ever so
much in love with you  he "

"He would go back to the Ormerods if
I took no notice of him," said Lucy. " No,
I shall not let him alone."

'' Go back to the Ormerods  reversion

VOL. II. .23

to the original type," said Dicky, pleasantly.
From the peasantry he sprang, I expect,
if the truth were known, and if left to the
guidance of his own impulses and instincts,
to the peasantry he would return. But we
want to keep him raised above such a
mere bucolic level as that, don't we ? "

I don't know what you are talking
about. I don't understand a word of it,"
she said crossly.

Ah, you don't thirst after knowledge.
You don't attend university extension
lectures, such as we have down in Hollowley,"
said Dicky, graciously. " It is almost
a pity. You might learn a lot at them.
And what's more, you might get other
ideas into your head than to spend your
time tormenting a fellow who is blindly in
love with you, and whom you don't mean
to have in the end of all."

Lucy looked darkly sulky and annoyed.

She hated to be interfered with and seen
through. The game was an important
one to her, and she knew that to Dicky it
was beneath contempt.

'' I can't tell why you wanted to seeme,"
she said, ''if it was for nothing but
to give me a long lecture like this."

Dicky laughed. " Lecture, indeed ! I
wonder who gets fewer lectures than you ? ''

"It isn't for you to begin, then," she
retorted angrily.

'' Is young Holgate coming here this
afternoon ? " he inquired, not heeding her
vexation.

I don't know," she answered shortly.
*' Perhaps he may  perhaps not. Very
often Jim and I go and have tea with him
on a Sunday afternoon, and then he comes
back to supper with us. But I don't think
we could take you there, without an invitation,"
she concluded demurely.

I guess not. Well, I don't care. We
shall meet at the ' Swan ' at Hollowley,
on Monday night, or else up here again."

There's the first bell for dinner. I
must go and get my things off," said Lucy,
turning towards the house.

'* What a sweet little prayer-book you
have ! " he remarked, taking it out of her
hand. " And a hymn-book, too, I declare."

Yes, Jim gave me them."

'really! If I had had the least idea
you had a fancy for such things "

I must not be late. You know father
gets furious if any one is a minute behind
time for dinner," she said hurriedly, taking
her books from him and going quickly in.

Yes," muttered Dicky to himself, ashe
watched her light, dainty little figure
"trip up the slope towards the house ; "I
know he does. He must have a disgusting
big feed, and everybody seated to a minute,

and a full discussion of the dishes, and the
price he paid for each thing, and tell us all
how he never stints his fishmonger or his
butcher as to price, and how well they
serve him in consequence. Bah ! What
a place is this, to be sure ! What a life for
responsible human beings to lead ! Money-grubbing
and eating  that's all they do or
think about ; and my young lady there
hasn't even the money-making to keep her
out of other mischief If she were not so .

d d pretty with it all ! But she is. I

never fought hard for anything before,
unless I was sure it was worth the trouble.
I'm not sure about this at all ; at least, not
for the future ; it's pleasant enough and
amusing enough in the present. No, I'm
not sure, but I mean to fight for it  and
I mean to marry her if fifty Holgates stood
in the way ! "

Then he too went into the house, filled

Still with reflections on the life these people
led. They all met round the dinner-table ;
and in such wise had Lucy Barraclough
accomplished her usual Sunday morning's
occupation  attendance at Divine worship,
and then a little stroll round the garden of
Jessamine Lawn till dinner-time.

CHAPTER II.

PLAYING WITH FIRE.

On the Monday night, billiards were resumed,
this time at the "Swan" at Hollowed,
as Dicky had said ; and this time
Brian lost more money than he had woii
on the Saturday. He and Jim Barra-clough
drove home in the latter's dog-cart,
at a late hour ; and Brian promised to go
up to Jessamine Lawn on the following
evening, when whist, instead of billiards,
was the form taken by the entertainment.

Brian hardly knew why he had gone to
the *' Swan." He had no desire to do so ;
he had no wish to play billiards with Dicky
Law ; but also, he had no particular attraction

at home. He felt disinclined for an
evening alone with his violin ; he was too
restless and feverish to enjoy that. He
might have gone to the farm. Of course
there was always that resource open to
him. They never failed to welcome him
and his fiddle. Perhaps it was partly
because he was so very sure of that welcome
that he did not trouble himself to
court it. But for Lucy, though, he might
have gone. But he could not sit and talk
to Alice about Lucy, and there was nothing
else now that he cared to talk about. The
flame of passion had got fresh fuel. A
few gentle words from her  a look or two,
had roused it all again, and it burnt as
high and as strong as before. He was
possessed by Lucy and by the thought of
her, to the exclusion of every other object.
Life seemed worth nothing to him till he
had really won her. And his passion,

while blunting his perceptions in some
directions, rendered them abnormally keen
in others, as is the way with devouring
passions. He had seen, or thought he
had seen, that Law looked at Lucy in a
manner which to him, Brian, was suspicious.
True, Lucy had no manner of interest in
Richard Law. Brian always felt as if Law
and he belonged to different generations
as well as different temperaments, and he
classed Lucy with himself, not with the
other. Still, the bare idea that this man's
eyes could have looked with favour upon
his darlings, was enough to set on fire all
his aversion to him. He hated Dicky
with an instinctive hatred, as one hates a
crawling creature, at sight, without waiting
to inquire into any beauty of its own which
it might possess In the shape of wonderful
structure, or minute and curious adaptation
of means to ends ; and he hated the very

notion of Lucy having anything to do with
this drawing creature. Jim, he knew, was
rough and ready, and by no means sensitive
as to the company he kept himself,
or that was kept by others around him.
Barraclough pure simply did not give the
slightest thought to such matters ; his days
were spent at his works and In his 
; his evenings were devoted to
the consumption of a heavy and elaborate
supper, and to a subsequent snoozing over
his spirits and water by the dining-room
fire till bedtime, with occasional pretences
of reading the newspaper. If Beelzebub
himself had been sitting with his daughter,
Mr. Barraclough would have been undisturbed
; for he was not a nervous man.
He would not have cared if he had once
ascertained that Beelzebub was a sound
and increasing character  financially.

Lucy was alone, practically  the only

woman In the comfortless, large house ; the
mistress of its servants, with carte blanche
to run up bills for household matters, and
even, to a great extent, for her own dress,
if she so chose ; but with a very contracted
yearly allowance of pocket-money, a very
limited supply of ready cash for anything
she might require on the spot. In the
creed of men of the Barraclough calibre, a
girl who had what Lucy had, the use of
a rich father's house and servants and
carriages, required nothing more. She
was not expected to have individual tastes.
Richard Law knew the exact state of
matters in this respect  so did Brian Vulgate.
Dicky perceived in the situation
certain elements possible for him to utilise
to his own great advantage ; he had every
intention of some day so utilising them ;
and he generally accomplished what he
intended to do.

Brian, on the contrary, beheld a lovely
young goddess whom he adored, and who,
with a coyness or a dignity befitting a
delicately minded young woman, held him
a little at arm's length for a season, until
he should have proved himself worthy of
her. That was what he meant to do ; this
was what he was now setting himself to
accomplish ; and the manner in which he
did it was to go night after night to the
abode of the divinity, intending to crave
some private words with her, lay his case
before her, tell her all that he wished todo,
all that he thought he could do ; ask
her whether she would rather he made a
name as a great singer, or a great violinist;
or, if her taste inclined to neither of these
paths of glory, would she prefer him to
embark in business, become a prince among
merchants or manufacturers, and for her
sake amass a fortune, not of fame, but of

money ? All these roads, considered in
the homely freedom of Moor Isles, seemed
easy ones to tread. It needed but her fiat
to decide him into which of them he should
cast himself, with all the ardour and energy
at his command. But somehow that fiat
never got spoken ; the question, even,
never got directly put. He waited his
opportunity ; he had not the faintest notion
that she knew it, and did not intend to
give him one. It was too serious a matter
to be dashed at without having the assurance
of there being plenty of time in which
to discuss it.

And, while waiting this opportunity, there
was always Jim  or Jim and Dicky  to
welcome him. With Jim alone he usually
played billiards, and on these occasions he
saw more of Lucy than when other men
were present. And he seldom lost so
heavily, either, at such times, When

Dicky Law, and a fourth man, a friend of
Law and Barraclough, were there, they
played whist. It need hardly be said that,
compared with the others, Brian was as a
child, a baby, in his knowledge of the
science of the frame. But even these

o

whist evenings he preferred to the others
those which were the most frequent 
when he and Jim and Law were alone,
and billiards were voted dull, and whist
could not be played for want of a fourth,
and they sat hour after hour playing poker,
and Brian found that money changed hands
with startling rapidity and unexpectedness.
This kind of thing went on for five nights
out of the seven. Sunday was still exempt ;
and during the autumn and winter season
Brian continued, from old habit, to make
his weekly journey to the concert at Irk-ford.
He persevered in this ; Lucy did
not mind his going there  she minded

nothing, so long as he was not drawn to
the Ormerods. He went, but somehow
the music gradually ceased to have its
former significance and attraction for him ;
never again did he walk home in the dark
with that free, light heart, as on that night
when we first met him, trolling his songs,
filled to overflowing with the joy of the
music and melody, thinking an artist's life
the finest life on earth, and half disposed
to forsake all and plunge into that career
During the winter there were many more
superb concerts and magnificent singers ;
many a time, from his place in the gallery,
he saw Mrs. Reichardt in her chair down
in the hall ; once she caught sight of him,
and gave him a friendly bow and smile.
But the beautiful young girl was gone from
her side  the glorious artist did not that
season reappear at Irkford. All that
episode was over, thrust back, as it were.

obscured by clouds and mists of doubt and
uncertainty.

What was it, he asked himself sometimes,
that had come over him, preventing
him from any longer enjoying these things
as of yore ? Nothing had happened,
surely ; he was the same, he had health
and strength as formerly. Lucy was always
very kind and genial to him, save for a
little coquettish aloofness now and then.
His friends at the farm always had the same
trusting, true-hearted greeting for him ;
his dog still loved him ; his horse whinnied
with pleasure when it heard his voice or
felt his hand ; his old house stood as
before, four-square to all the winds of
heaven, sturdy and abiding, with its solid
gray stone walls, its bonny bit of old-fashioned
garden ; the grand prospect from
the front windows of the great sweep of
country, the town of Hollowley, and the

rolling moors beyond. And behind, when
he looked forth, behold, as of yore, the
sloping green fields with their sheep and
cattle ; and, rising above them all in the
distance, the great dark swell, bleak and
wild, heath and bracken clothed, and the
square grim head, watching into the northeast,
of Ravenside Hill. These things
had been his pleasure and sufficient from
boyhood  from little childhood. They
were all here still, unchanged, and he was
here too, and they no longer sufficed him
nay, he was conscious sometimes, when
he saw them, of feeling an irritable impatience
with them  the kindly, homely
faces of man and of nature which loved
him, and which he, had he been himself,
ought to have loved  they were useless to
him. His voice and his fiddle were both
more silent than they had formerly been.
He often sat brooding, one elbow resting

VOL. II. 24

on his knee, while he pulled Ferran's silky
ears.

And the only tangible reason which he
could give to himself for this change in
his spirits was one at which he laughed
whenever it crossed his mind  the reason,
namely, that he was losing much oftener
than winning, in their evenings of billiards,
or whist, or poker ; that twice lately he had
had to draw upon his banking account for
money with which to pay the sums he had
lost ; that this disgusted him, but that, sofar
from causing him to think of giving up
his rational and agreeable amusement, he
had got vexedly determined to go on, cost
what it might  not to give in to Dicky
Law, who was always so confoundedly
ready with his little laugh, and his half-sneering
suggestion, *' Holgate, if we are
getting too fast for you, we can stop as
soon as you please." Too fast for him,

indeed ! Brian muttered indignantly, feeling
all the strength of youth and emulation
and eager desire thrusting him irresistibly
onward. No ! He, with Lucy in the
same house, get up and admit that a
bloodless creature like Dicky Law was
too fast " for Brian Holgate, in any one
way ! Never ! He would go on ; he
meant to go on, if the going should leave
him at last nothing but the roof above
him. " Then I could work ; I should 
work," he told himself, and went on.

The autumn stole quickly by, and winter
came. The ripeness and richness of Indian
summer were over, the iron-bound sky and
earth of January and February followed.
It was not a joyful winter, if the truth
must be confessed, for several persons at
Thornton-in-Ravenside. It was far from
joyful for Brian, who, filled with passion
and unrest, ambition and resentment, and

Library

 ILUN0i3

teased by the constant tantalizing missing
of the thing he most wanted, fancied that
to give up the course on which he had
embarked would be weakness, and who
proved himself truly weak by letting himself
be led whither he wished not to go,
and made to do things that he despised,
and which did not even amuse him. It
was not a happy winter for either Alice or
her brother, who had to stand by and look
on while their hero and their friend grew
gradually more and more estranged from
them, and more and more dissatisfied with
himself. They could see that in his
sombre and altered looks ; they could only
watch it, they could do nothing; and to
Alice it was torture even to speak of it.
Andrew knew it, and seldom spoke Brian's
name to her, and never let her know that
he saw the furtive caress she bestowed
upon Brian's dog, who, poor fellow, remained

unchanged In the midst of all the
change about him. The farmer was less
reticent ; he did not know so much of
what was going on in the background, and
he often said he was afraid '* yon lad "
was not so well, nor so well-behaved as he
might have been.

It was by no means a happy winter,
either, for Lucy Barraclough, who, on the
outside, at any rate, appeared to have less
care and trouble, of a tangible kind, than,
most people. She had never meant that
this exploitering of Brian should go sofar
; it made her unhappy as It took a
more definite shape, in the course of weeks
and months. She wished to stop it Had
she been, at the end of the winter, as free
an agent as she had been on that Sunday
morning when she had talked to Dick,
after counting the rays emanating from the
golden eye above the Ten Commandments,

she would have stopped it. A few words
to Brian, a smile, a private interview, which
she could easily have secured, and in which
she could have hinted her wonder that he
should care to pass his time as he did,
would on the instant have made him strong
as steel against the blandishments of Jim
and Jim's friends. But she could not
venture to speak those words, because she
was in bondage  a bondage which had
been effected partly with her own consent,
and from which she, at any rate, had not
the strength or the courage to break free.
It had been cleverly managed, and easily,
by one who knew her weak points, and
scrupled not to use them.

CHAPTER III.

THE BRACELETS.

At the beginning of the year, there was
a ball In the town, given by the Hollowley
Liberal Association, of which organization
Mr. Barraclough and Jim were two
distinguished ornaments and powerful
members, the elder, at any rate, having
command of considerable sinews of war.
They were not much given to frequenting
social gatherings of any kind ; but one
must be true to one's party and to one's
cause, and the ball came but once a year.
Lucy was present at it, of course, looking
very bewitching, in a becoming and expensive
toilette, and wearing, amongst other

ornaments, a pair of gold bracelets, set
with diamonds and pearls, which had been
her mothers, and which had been not
given, but lent to her by her father, soon
after she had left school. Practically they
were hers ; but not in name. Mr. Barra-clough
did not love to part with his power
over anything that constituted or represented
money value; so he "lent" Lucy
the bracelets, and on this particular occasion
she wore them.

Law was also of the party at the ball 
not as a dancing man, truly, but to his
own gratification notwithstanding. The
Barracloughs were amongst the earliest to
leave. Lucy did not dare to stay a
moment after her father had informed her
that it was time to go. She looked ruefully
at her programme, on which stood
half a dozen names against dances not yet
danced. It was so seldom that anything

of this kind came in her way, and she
enjoyed It so thoroughly when it did. But
she was not one of the natures that can
brave blame and brutality ; it was easier
and less distressing to fume and obey.
She went into the ladies' dressing-room
to get her wraps, and in a very few minutes
came out again, cloaked and hooded, and
with a changed, uneasy expression on
her face. Law was standing near the
door of the cloak-room, waiting for her.
Her own mankind were not visible at the
moment.

'' Are you tired ? " asked Dicky, going
up to her, and looking straight into her
troubled face. '' Come, and I'll find you
a seat till they come for you."

'' No, no ! " said she hurriedly. " Come
here, to one side. I want to tell you
something."

She pushed one hand and wrist from

out of the shelter of her fur cloak, and ina
frightened whisper said 

'* Dick, I've lost my bracelet. What
shall I do?"

His eyes flashed a little as she called
him in her haste by his Christian name.

Lost your bracelet ? Where, and
when ? "

'* It must have been in that last dance.
I never noticed. And then father came
and hurried me off. When I was fastening
my hood, I saw that it was gone. It
is not in there ! "  she pointed to the room
from which she had just come. '' I've
looked in every corner. It must have
been in the ball-room."

She looked at him with dilated eyes and
a pale face.

*' What is it like ? " he asked her.

"It matches this exactly." She showed
him the other bracelet. 'they were

mother's, you know. They are not mine.
He only lends me them. If he were to
find out that I had lost it, I don't know
what he would do. You know, he's very
severe if he gets really vexed."

In other words, Mr. Barraclough, senior,
was in the habit, when exasperated, of
using language that would have disgraced
a navvy, and was capable of even laying
violent hands on  such a person as a
daughter, who could not retaliate. Dicky
was perfectly acquainted with these facts.
He nodded his head gravely, grasping at
once the full bearings of the situation, and
feeling instantly master of it and of her.

Take off that other one," said he.
I'll stop behind and have a hunt for the
lost one. Don't look scared, Lucy. You
shall have it back all rlcrht. You shall
indeed, if I have to get another like it
made for you. But I guess I shall find it."

She had just time to unfasten it, give it
to him, and cover up her arms again, and
compose her countenance, when her father
appeared, and then Jim. Dicky thrust the
bracelet deep into one of his pockets, said
good night all round, handed Lucy into
the carriage, and saw them drive away,
when he returned to the ball-room.

Lucy passed a night and a day of suspense.
The evening after the ball, Dicky
arrived, and managed to have some words
alone with her.

Well ? " she asked anxiously.

'swell, I'm sorry to say it can't be
found."

Not found ! " she almost gasped.
Dick ! He is just as likely as not to
ask to see them. He does, you know,
every now and then. Those, and the
diamond earrings, and a necklace, and
some other things. He likes to calculate

how much they would fetch, if he wanted
to sell them ; and, of course, If one is
missing, he Is almost certain to ask about
them. Oh, heavens ! what am I to do ? "

"Just do this. If he should ask anything
about them soon, say that you
damaged the clasp of one of them, and It
has gone to be mended ; that you confided
them to me to see the job through,
and you don't know where I have taken
them (that's true enough, anyhow), hut
that it's all right. Naturally, the second
one was wanted In order that the broken
one might be made exactly like it. See ? "

You are very kind," she said, fully
aware how powerful a protection to her
was power to say openly that Dick had
some hand In the business. There would
be no frowns If she could speak up to that
effect. " But  but that cannot last forever
 don't you see ? "

No, of course not. But we will have
another search for the first one. There
are ways and means of tracing stolen goods
quietly, and I've no doubt this has been
stolen. And I will manage the whole
thing for you, if you will leave it to me."

Oh, thank you ! I cannot refuse.
And yet  I wonder if he would be very
angry if he knew ? " she speculated, unwilling
to confide so much power to
Richard Law, yet dreading with a constitutional
dread, at once mental and
physical, the prospect of a violent scene
with her father.

Of course he would  mighty wrath,
you may be sure. He has not changed
his character in the last few days, has he ?
And it is not suitable for you to have to
face any such thing. You may rely upon
it that I know what I am talking about.
No. Leave it to me ; I'll see you through it."

She was silent  and silence gives consent.


A week passed by. Her father so far
had asked no questions. Dicky had not
spoken, and she herself had not spoken.
At the end of the time he came early one
evening to Jessamine Lawn, before Jim
had come In from business. Lucy at the
moment was thinking about the bracelet
and Its loss, which worried her incessantly,
and she was wondering (for she had sane
and natural, and even courageous Impulses
at times) whether It would do any good
to tell Jim of her disaster, and ask him to
help her out. Then she shook her head.
Jim was not a tender brother. There was
nothing exaggerated or sentimental in his
regard for his sister. * Anything in
reason," he would have said, but the particular
request preferred would always
have been out of reason. And, also, Jim

himself was not without some trifling
pecuniary difficulties, and his guardian
angel, too, in the matter, was Dicky Law.
It would not do. She must hear what
Mr. Law had to say.

When they were seated together, alone,
he produced a piece of tissue paper with
something wrapped up in It.

There ! " he remarked kindly. ** That's
the one you gave me."

' Oh, Dick ! And the other ? "

'the lost one!" He shook his head.
'* The lost is not found, by any means."
He folded his hands and looked
at her with an expression speaking of mild
sorrow over the circumstance.

'* Not found ! " echoed Lucy, with a
deep, troubled sigh. " Then I may as well
tell him about It. I wish I had done It
first, Instead of leaving it to the last."

*' Stop, stop ! No such hurry. What
should you say to this ? "

This time, a beautiful brand-new morocco
case emerged from his pocket. Touching
the spring, he opened the Hd, and behold,
reposing on a white satin bed, another
bracelet, the exact copy of the one she
held in her hand  only brighter and more
lustrous ; newer, in fact.

Dick ! " She could say no more.

I told you I'd see you through this,"
said Dicky, in accents of the frankest and
most engaging loyalty. " I said, even tf
I had to have another made Hke unto the
first. There it is. Take it, and make
your mind easy."

'* Take it  oh, but that is impossible.
You have had it made, expressly ? Why,
it must have cost a little fortune. You
know I have no money but my allowance.
I can never hope to pay you for it 
never." She hesitated, drew back, did not
take It into her hand.

VOL. II. 25

Dicky bent forward and laid the thing,
case and all, upon her knee.

Easily  pay, and more than pay, for it.
Some day, Lucy, you'll be my wife, you
know  when you can make up your mind
to shake off that poor, silly Holgate lad.
If I mayn't do a trifling thing like this, to
ease the mind of my future wife, and if
she mayn't take it, why, it is come to
something ! "

Lucy looked at him. Truly, Dicky had
more chivalry than she had given him
credit for. This had all been done in a
most romantic, delicate manner, and if her
father asked any questions, how easy to
show him the two baubles. And if she
could not show them  after all this delay
after concealing the loss from him for
so long  no, it was quite impossible.

It was impossible  for Lucy.

Yet she felt as if she had been entrapped,

and that through her own fault.
She could not quite tell where the entrapping
had come in, or where it was
that she had been off her guard  only
that it had been done.

The conclusion of the scene was that
Lucy did not again reject the morocco
case when it was placed upon her knee ;
that there was a conversation, during which
Law spoke to her more plainly than ever
he had done before ; that at last she
allowed him to put his arm around her
waist and kiss her  that he held her in
his arm for a few minutes, and turned her
face towards him with his hand, and looked
into it with the look of a possessor, saying
all the while the sweetest things about the
privilege of being able to serve her, and
to set her poor little mind at ease ; that
she did not feel the courage and strength
to tell him that he had not set her mind

at ease, but had only transferred the unease
from one set of feelings to another ;
that at last, saying she heard Jim coming,
she escaped, and ran to her room, and
slipped the two bracelets into that drawer
of her wardrobe in which she kept such
things ; locked it, and then sat down by
her bed and wondered what it all meant,
for one wild moment feeling almost inspired
to go down again, give that poisoned
thing back to Dicky, confront her father
with the whole story, and  take the consequences.
Some natures would have
acted thus, even at this eleventh hour.
Without entering into psychological reasons,
the fact remains that Lucy s was not such
a nature. She did not open her wardrobe
again, but went downstairs, and said
nothing to her father, who had just come
in, and was grumbling angrily about
something which had gone wrong at " the

works." Dicky looked at her significantly ;
she exchanged the glance with a feeble
smile ; and in so doing, gave herself over
into his power.

Time passed on ; the constant play
amongst the men went on ; Lucy felt herself
tongue-tied and powerless. Dicky
had never made any ungenerous allusion
to the little transaction which he had
accomplished for her, nor to the money
he had expended, in order to give her, a<?
he said, 'peace of mind." But the transaction
was there  the money had been
spent ; the compact entered into. She
had no longer the right to oppose an y
proceeding of Law's, however wrong she
might think it. The bracelet and its
history fettered her as effectually as if it
had been a pair of handcuffs, and Dicky
a police officer, driving her before him.
It was a dreary winter. Lucy wondered

sometimes how It was that things were so
dull, and that she got so little pleasure out
of her life. She had worsted the woman
whom she considered her rival ; she had
one man helplessly at her feet, and another
whose chief object in life was to win her ;
she was passionately fond of admiration,
but her heart was cold and her soul
empty. The joy of helpfulness, hopefulness,
sacrifice, was unknown to her, and
she did not even know what the need was
which yet made her whole existence unsatisfactory
to her.

CHAPTER IV.

ALICE GOES TO IRKFORD.

One fine spring morning, while things of
this kind were going on at Moor Isles and
at Jessamine Lawn, Alice Ormerod, after
despatching her necessary household work
with greater rapidity than usual, left her
kitchen, which looked spotlessly clean and
neat, about half-past eight, and went upstairs
to her room. It appeared that she
contemplated some important and unusual
expedition, for she speedily divested herself
of her print working gown, and took out
of her drawers, and from the pegs against
the walls, sundry articles of clothing suited
for festive or unusual occasions ; and she

dressed herself In them. Truth to tell,
when the process was accomplished, and
she had eot into her best oown of black
silk and cashmere ; her best bonnet of
white straw and black velvet, with some
artificial poppies in it ; her best jacket, too,
a handsome enough affair in its way, she
looked, though undeniably a handsome,
somewhat sedate young woman, yet still,
a trifle stiff, and unaccustomed to her
clothes ; not so free and graceful as in her
plain, daintily clean prints, moving about,
easy and at home, amongst her farm business
and domestic affairs. Still, even in
this trying " best " costume, she was a
noble figure, and her attire did not destroy
the straightforward simplicity of her look
and manner, though they might tone it
down a little.

When she was ready, she went downstairs
to the kitchen again. Andrew and

her father were both there. The latter
was somewhat spruced up as to his outer
man : he was going to drive his daughter
in the spring-cart to Hollowley station.

'' Eh, lass, art ready ? " he said when he
saw her. " Thou looks rare and well too,
eh, Andy ? "

Gradely," replied Andy succinctly.

'' Are all the things here ? " asked Alice,
bestowing upon each of them a glance full
of affection, if grave and unsmiling. Sh
had not smiled lately so often as in former
days.

'' Let's see," she added, carefully counting
some things ; " the basket with the eggs,
and the pot with the butter, and the jar
with the cream  that's three. Ay, they're
all there ; and my umbrella, and my purse
yes, in my little bag." She opened a
stout little wash-leather purse, from whose
pockets came the gleam of a goodly store

of glittering yellow coins. " And my
paper, that I've put all the things down
on that we want. And now, father, I'm
ready."

And so am I," said the farmer. " Come
along, lass ; and Andy, do thou tak' care o'
chisel'. Go out a bit this fine morning',
and don't stop cowering' in th' ingle o' the
time, while thought fair roasted. Some
day west find as thou's got drawn up th'
lover wi' the draught, and west ne'er see
thee no more."

If I once flew up th' lover," said
Andrew, looking rather pleased than otherwise
at the prospect, " I should ne'er sit
down again till I found myself lying' on th'
topmost boulder of Ravenside ; and it's the
only way I shall ever get there," he added,
with sudden mournfulness.

His father laughed loudly at the idea,
and Alice, patting his shoulder kindly,

told him, '' Those times are all past, lad,
for flying up th' lover, or riding on broomsticks
o'er Ravenside Hill. Do thou as
father tells thee, and mind thought wide
awake when I come back, that I may tell
thee all I've seen in Irkford, all the time
I'm there."

With that, and a smile of encouragement,
she followed the farmer out, carrying
in her own hand the jar of cream,
while *' Lizzy " followed with the other two
packages. These safely disposed of, and
his daughter seated, Farmer Ormerod
clambered into his place, flicked the whip
about grey Bessie's ears, and with a
lunge, a lurch, and a jolt, they got under
weigh.

It was a lovely morning towards the
end of April ; lovely, that is, as to brightness
and clearness of atmosphere, and
brilliant sunshine, but piercingly cold as

to wind, which came piping with bitter
breath from the top of Ravenside, and
was as due north-east as a wind can be.
They had not very much to say to each
other, as they jogged along through the
pleasant lanes of the hill country, passing
many an old grey stone farmhouse, with
its roof of "blue" tiles, or row of curious,
ancient cottages, their cold grey relieved
by the snowy blinds and brilliant masses
of fine flowering plants in the windows.
Gradually they wound down hill, into an
atmosphere less clear and bracing ; nearer
civilization perhaps, but most assuredly
nearer to the chimneys and the smoke. Just
before they entered the town of Hollowley,
the rushing of wheels sounded behind
them, and then a high spick-and-span dogcart
overtook them, flew past them, drawn
by its fast-striding horse, and disappeared
in a little cloud of dust.

'' Barraclough's cart," observed the farmer
laconically.

Ay  with Jim and her in it," was all
that his daughter replied ; and then, whatever
they might have thought, they said
no more about it.

At the station Mr. Ormerod pulled up,
and Alice got down from the cart. He
handed her things to her, but did not get
out himself. He had business on hand in
the town. He nodded to her.

Gather I or one o't' lads'll come to
fetch thee whom," he promised her, and
flicked his whip again, and drove off.

Alice collected her things and went into
the station. It was yet early for the train.
They were accustomed to allow plenty of
time to drive from Thornton to Hollowley,
especially when the catching of a train was
in question.

Early though Alice was, however, she

found to her surprise that Lucy Barra-clough
was already there, waiting apparently
for the same train (as a matter of
fact, it had suited Jim's convenience to set
off early, and drop his sister at the station
while he made a call or two in the town
before joining her).

Lucy, too, was dressed for going into
town ; so cunningly were her garments
arranged that, though it was absolutely
necessary, in that wind, to wear warm
clothing, she looked like some little humming
bird with brilliantly tinted plumage,
softened down by the rich velvety brown
of her sealskin coat ; gleams of colour
appearing here and there at her throat
and in her bonnet. Alice did not lend
herself easily to comparisons with birds or
beasts ; she looked exactly what she was 
at a disadvantage with regard to appearance,
and perfectly indifferent to that fact.

It was Lucy who accosted the other.
She had no intention of doing anything
more than make AHce uncomfortable, by
saying a few malicious things in a quiet
way ; and the temptation to try that was
too strong to be resisted. Moreover, her
own anxiety on the subject of Brian and
the life he was at present leading, made
her wishful, in a curious, unaccountable
way, to find out what others thought
about it.

So she looked at Alice with a placid
smile.

'good morning, Miss Ormerod," said
she, cheerfully. 'ewe passed you on the
road, I think, didn't we ? "

Yes," said Alice, smilingly.

Are you going to Irkford ? "

Yes," again said Alice, who had placed
her three packages on a bench, near to
which Lucy was standing, and who now.

from her far superior height, looked down
upon the other with drooped white eyelids
and scarcely concealed scorn. Lucy saw
it, understood it, realized perfectly what it
all meant, and was furious. Her intention
of amusing herself had gone. What she
now wished to do, was to strike and hurt.
She felt as if she would give the world
to visibly disturb that lofty equanimity of
contempt, that cool disdain of eye and
mouth. They made her feel small  and
that she, Lucy Barraclough, should be
made to feel small by Alice Ormerod, was
an intolerable thing.

'' We have been seeing a good deal of a
neighbour of yours lately," she observed,
with a malicious little smile.

'' Brian Holgate ? " said Alice, after a
perceptible pause, during which she stared
calmly down at the other, and speaking
with unruffled outward calm. " Ay, poor

lad, I know you have. The worse for
him ! "

Lucy felt as if a sudden ball had struck
her. This was her own secret knowledge
which she had tried to wrap away from
herself in all kinds of sophisms, put into
plain, unmistakable, uncompromising vernacular.
For the first instant her vivid
sense of the truth of the words rendered
her silent. In the next arose again the
angry feeling that it was intolerable. Sie
gave a light, somewhat falsetto laugh as
she answered 

Heavens ! I had no idea he had given
such offence by preferring our society to
yours. What harm are we doing to him ? "

'' You're teaching him  at least, you've
taught him, amongst you  to drink and to
gamble, and make a beast of himself. Six
months ago, he was a decent lad enough.
Now he's more than half-way to the devil.

VOL. II. 6

You and your lot are ruining him as fast
as a man can be ruined. That's all."

This heavy artillery somewhat took
Lucy's breath away ; but though heavy,
there was a sting beneath it all, as sharp
as a dagger's point  there was the truth,
naked and bare. Therefore, being true, it
was altogether intolerable that such words
should be used.

'' Bless me ! If he is so decent, and if weare
so  indecent " she said, her lips growing
pale, while she forced a smile, " how is
it that he prefers our company to yours 
as I said before ? I'm sure nothing could
be more decent than your family. They
say like seeks like. You've known him
longer than we have  why haven't you
kept him ? "

'' Because he's demented just now," replied
Alice, with the same sledge-hammer
force and directness. " I never said he was

perfect  he has his weaknesses, poor lad,
and one of them is to believe in the
woman he's in love with, and not to
understand how false she is, leading him
on with promises that she never means to
keep, wakening up all his bad passions,
and driving away all the good there is in
him. You'll hardly say that he has improved
since he began to go so much to
your house," she added, with imperturbable,
calm scorn. " The Scripture says tKp
tender mercies of the wicked are cruel,
and it's such tender mercies that Brian is
getting just now from you."

'* It's easy to see who is in love with the
young gentleman," said Lucy, forgetting
all self-restraint, white with excitement,
and with lips quivering with passion. She
broke into a little insulting laugh, the
eager, raging desire possessing her all the
time to make that strong woman wince.

Alice heard her words, and smiled a smile
which maddened Lucy.

'ris It?" said she. 'perhaps, Lucy
Barraclough, you don't know very well
what you're talking about. Brian Is my
old friend and playmate ; we have known
each other all our lives. If I found him
stripped and lying In the gutter, I'd lift
him out and clothe him yes, if I knew
for certain that he would go back to you
the next minute, to be stripped again.
You don't understand that, of course. I'm
sorry for you. I'm sorry a woman can
look like you look, and be what you are.
And, since you began it, I'm very glad to
have had the opportunity of telling you so."

With that, she turned away, looked at
the clock, and, seeing what time it was,
went into the booking-office to take her
ticket. Lucy was left standing, almost
panting with anger, with the sense of defeat.

and with detestation for Alice. The conversation
had only lasted a few minutes ; it had
not been loud, nor attracted any attention.
People who intended going to Irkford by
the coming express were beginning to drop
in and stroll about the platform. Lucy,
after a moment, forced herself to walk
about  forced her face into an expression
of something like composure.

If he were stripped and lying in the
gutter," she said to herself, or rather, the
words seemed to go whirling round and
round in her mind, so that she could hear
and think of nothing else, *she would
lift him out and clothe him. Very well  I
was sorry, but I'm not now. She shall
never have him in any other way  never 
never ! I will teach her what she gets by
treating me in that way."

They travelled in different carriages,
and did not even see each other again.

The Irkford station was crowded. Alice
made a porter carry her things to a cab for
her. He suggested a "ransom;" which
she declined, with some consternation, and
finally drove off in a four-wheeler, having
driven the man Elisabeth Reichardt's
address. She scarcely saw the busy streets
through which she was driven  she was
thinking, as she had been all along, of that
interview with Lucy at the Hollowley
station.

Tm afraid I didn't say what was best
for him, poor lad, though it eased my own
mind. If I'd known how to disgust her
with him, and make her throw him aside 
but I'm not clever at such in-and-out ways,
and I did hurt her. I meant to. Whatever
may happen, she has heard the truth
for once in her life  and she knew it was
true, too."

But the consciousness of this fact did

not ive her unlimited satisfaction. She

o

was thoughtful, and somewhat depressed,
and scarcely noticed that they had left the
regions of shops and warehouses, and were
now driving along a pleasant thoroughfare,
with trees on either side of it. Then the
cab stopped at the gate of a large, well-appointed
house, standing alone, which
might have been built some fifty years
ago.

"This here's number a hundred," said
the cabman. *' Shall I ask if they're at

!> "

one :

Yes, please. Mrs. Reichardt  ask if
Mrs. Reichardt is in."

Mrs. Reichardt was at home, said the
footman who opened the door, and Alice
got out, paid and dismissed her cabman,
and, carrying her different specimens of
country produce, went to the door and
confronted the wondering flunkey.

I wish to see Mrs. Reichardt," she
told him. " She knows who I am. I will
give you my name."

*' Yes  ma'am," said the man, making
a gallant effort to reconcile the homely
manner and the numerous bundles with
the assured tone and stately beauty of the
visitor. And he let her in, and was going
to show her into a side room, when a door
was opened, and Elisabeth herself emerged
from another room, clad in some most
wonderful morning gown, all ribbons and
lace and frills ; she had a bundle of letters
and a newspaper in her hand, and, as a
matter of fact, had just finished her breakfast,
after being up very late the night
before.

She looked, at first carelessly, then with
nearer scrutiny, at the figure standing in
the hall. Then a sudden light came into
her eyes and face  she sprang forward,

with hands outstretched, filled as they were
with papers.

'' Miss Alice Ormerod ! no, this is too
delightful. You are 77ios welcome. You
have come on purpose to see me ? "

Well, nearly on purpose to see you,"
said Alice ; and her face, too, suddenly
lighted up with a brighter ray than had
touched it now for many a week. Withall
her assured composure in speaking at
home of this intended visit, she had had
more than one qualm of anxiety lest perchance
Mrs. Reichardt, in the multiplicity
of her engagements and amusements,
should have forgotten her. But she had
not forgotten her. She knew her at once,
and there was genuine delight and welcome
in every word and glance. " Nearly on
purpose to see you," she repeated, gladly
letting Elisabeth shake her hand in both
hers.

How nice and good of you ! Well,
come ! You will take off your things and
stay a long time  all day, if you can. I
will send to have your packages put
aside."

They're nothing but a few trifles that
I made bold to bring from the farm,
hoping you'd not object to keeping them,"
said Alice, bashfully. "We do have such
things fresh and sweet, and I've heard
that they don't always in towns."

Oh, my dear ! " cried Elisabeth, her
quick emotions touched in the most lively
manner, '' you are too good. Eggs  why,
you must have robbed yourself! Fresh
eggs  they are twopence halfpenny apiece
here, and called fresh by courtesy. Butter
cream  oh, dear ! you make me ashamed
to take such valuable things. But I shall
do so all the same, and they will be very
sweet to my taste, especially because I

haven't in the least deserved them. I
think it is the presents and the pleasures
we don't deserve which delight us so when
they come, don't you ? There's a romance
about them which can never attach to the
things we have paid for, in any way.
Robert "  she turned to the footman 
send Mrs. Lewis here at once, that I
may give these things into her own
hands."

And Alice had the gratification, which
she was by no means of too great a soul
to enjoy, of seeing a stately cook, of critical
aspect, huge girth, and few words, come
sailing into the hall, receive the things,
and, with approving eye and gracious smile,
declare that they were a treat to look
upon. Then Elisabeth took her visitor's
hand.

Come with me," said she, " and tell me
all that you and "  with a sudden glance 

'' Mr. Holgate have been doing since I
saw you there."

And at these words AHce's face grew
sad again while she followed her hostess
upstairs.

CHAPTER V.

ELISABETH LISTENS.

How often have I thought about you,
and remembered your promise to come, and
wondered whether you would keep it ! " said
EHsabeth, when she had got AHce into her
own sitting-room, and made her take off
her things, and put her into a very comfortable
chair, which, however, rather incommoded
the young woman, who was
not accustomed to lounges, or lounging, in
any shape.

'' I thought you might have forgotten
me, though I hoped you wouldn't,' said
Alice, pleased and soothed, as she looked
round the charming room, so full of all

kinds of (to her) mysterious and Inexplicable
things  things which would have
been dreadfully In her way If the room had
been hers. The big writing-table, with its
numberless drawers and pigeon-holes, its
tapers and silver pen-dishes, and piles of
paper and envelopes, and mountains of
papers and notes ; it almost made her
head ache, merely to look at them. How
could any mortal woman cope with such
things ? The reading-stands, the curious
chairs, the wonderful standing-bookcases,
and others which revolved, the music-rests,
and a hundred other things were
equally bewildering to her. The flowers,
only, she understood. Every glance which
she gave round the room made her feel,
more and more, how utterly different was
this woman from herself, how her life was
filled with interests and amusements which,
to Alice, were merely puzzles. This feature

of the case, taken alone, would have been
simply discouraging. But, on the other
hand, every glimpse of Elisabeth's own
face made it all appear simpler and easier.
That was not a puzzle, but a very pleasant
and comprehensible fact, and when she
looked into it, the room and its mysteries,
hinting of spheres of which she knew
nothing, dismayed her no longer.

What a long time it seems since we
spent that delightful day at Moor Isles !.
I have never forgotten that name," said
Elisabeth. " At least, it seems a long time
to me  perhaps not to you."

*' Ay, but it does," said Alice, earnestly.
'' It's been the longest six months I ever
spent. I think time that's full of trouble
or disappointment always does seem
long."

I am very sorry if your time has been
filled with such disagreeable things," said

Elisabeth. " I remember you saying tome
that you would come and see me, even
if you were in misery. Perhaps you had
a presentiment of trouble ? "

Perhaps I had," said Alice, sadly.
Anyhow, the trouble's been there."

Tell me about it, will you not ? " said
Elisabeth, gently. " If I can't do anything
for you, I can sympathise."

Whereupon Alice did tell her, with a
simple, calm confidence and belief In her
which touched the tender-hearted woman
of the world inexpressibly. Elisabeth
listened while Alice related to her all the
sad tale of the last six months, not In
profuse detail, and In very simple, homely
language, but with a power and a directness
which made her hearer feel exactly
what she had gone through, and yet was
going through, of vicarious suffering, for
Alice had nothing to relate of her own

home and surroundings that was not bright
and cheerful. Indeed, she remarked casually
while telling her tale, that she did not think
many people had such a father and brother
as hers. She did not tell Elisabeth in so
many words that she was in love with
Brian Holgate, but the love had been part
of her for so long, and her nature was so
transparently truthful, that to one who
knew as much of the circumstances as
Elisabeth did, it was confessed in every
sentence. It was not a tale that seemed
to require comment. Alice did not appear
to have come to ask, '' What shall I do ?"
'* What do you think ? " of this or the
other. She seemed quite at unity with
herself about it. But it was evident that
she had needed some one to whom simply
to tell the tale, and Elisabeth realized that,
from the girl's very character, she had
come to the person in whom she felt the
VOL. II. 27

most absolute trust, and this fact was balm
to Mrs. Reichardt's soul, and pleased her
more than the most brilliant social success
ever could have done.

Alice did not make a long story of it all ;
but, looking into Elisabeth eyes, wound up
by saying 

It's a sad pity. Isn't It, that he should
be so misled ? "

'* It is, indeed," agreed Elisabeth.

And now," said Alice, " I want to ask
how you've been yourself all the time since
I saw you, and about the gentleman and
the young lady that came with you to
Moor Isles that day. Has he been in
these parts again ? "

No, he has not. Felix has not been
down here again. He has been very
busy. He always is. He is very popular,
you know, and, what is more, he deserves
his popularity."

Ay, I liked his face well. I could
have trusted him anywhere."

'' I have seen him, though he has not
been here. I was in London once or
twice when he was singing. In the autumn
he is going to America."

'' To America ! " exclaimed Alice, with a
sudden look of interest and excitement.
** Is he ? What for ? Is he going to stay
there long ? "

For some months, at least. I don't
know exactly how long. He is going to
sing there, of course. He is sure to have
no end of engagements when he gets
there. They are very anxious to hear
him."

'' Ay, I dare say. And the young lady
Miss Grey was her name  how is
she ? "

Miss Grey is very well, too. She is in
London, not at school exactly, but studying

very hard with the lady with whom she
Ives. We think we are going to be very
proud of her. She shows a really wonderful
gift for the science of languages  what
they call comparative philology  yes, it's a
dreadfully long name, isn't it ? " added
Elisabeth, laughing. '' Neither Mr. Ark-wright
nor I understand much about such

abstruse matters, but "

I should like to put that name down,"
said Alice, with great simplicity. " I can
never remember it myself, but my brother
Andy will want to know all I've heard
about, and he will know what it means."

You shall have it," said Elisabeth, with
great glee, seizing upon a little notebook,
and writing the desired expression upon a
leaf, which she tore out, and handed to
Alice. " It means, amongst other things,
the study of very ancient languages ; Latin
and Greek, and what they call the Oriental

languages  the languages of India and
Persia amongst them. We hear she
has an absolute genius for these things,
and Professor Wllloughby, under whom
she studies, says that none of the men he
teaches can come anywhere near her. So
she Is going to be quite a learned lady  as
full of wisdom as possible, and I think she
will be beautiful too."

"She was very sweet-looking," said
Alice. " Was it true what I heard  that
the gentleman  Mr. Felix, you called him,
has adopted her ? "

'' Oh yes," said Elisabeth, smiling.
That was a long time ago. Yes  yes.
She is his adopted  daughter. He is very
fond of her, and she of him."

I saw that she was very fond of him,"
Alice assented, with some emphasis, so
that Elisabeth could hardly conceal a smile,
as she thought, " Poor Ines ! she will have

learnt  already, I dare say, to conceal her
feelings rather more than that."

Aloud, she said, " Indeed, she ought to
be fond of him. He has, by his goodness
to her, not only saved her from poverty,
because there are worse things than
poverty  but he has given her a thoroughly
happy life, and it is through him that she
is now able to follow these studies which
she loves so much, and in which she is so
likely to excel. If ever Ines Grey makes
a name in the world, it will be because
Felix Arkwright put it in her power todo
so."

Alice nodded gravely. '* Yes," said she,
I quite see that. But I don't think that
was what made her so fond of him. It
was quite a different expression."

*well," said Elisabeth, who laughed,
and seemed to understand this not very
lucid remark, " I cannot tell you anything

about that ; but I do know that he has
been very good to her, and that she repays
him with real love and gratitude."

''Ah, yes," said AHce, reflectively. '' Do
you know what it was made me so take to
you that day, and to the others as well ?
It was because you all seemed so kind and
considerate to one another. It seemed tome
as if you wanted to do right, and to
think right by one another. There was
nothing disagreeable anywhere. I thought
to myself, well, they are fashionable ladies,
and he's a fashionable gentleman, and I've
heard that such-like are often so selfish, but
I'm sure these have good hearts, however
fashionable they may be, and they would
be just the same if they were at the very
top  kings and queens."

It was charming of you to see our
good qualities so quickly and so plainly,"
said Elisabeth, laughing ; " and in a way

you are right  about Felix, at any rate.
He has been as much flattered, and sought
after, and bowed down to as any prince.
There's no doubt of that. If you knew
the idiotic things that some people do, just
to get him to look at them or speak to
them  women, especially, of course, I'm
sorry to say  if you knew, you would
blush, as I do, sometimes. And yet, he
has not been a bit spoiled with it all  not
one bit. Oh, he's a wonderful fellow,
I think, and I'm glad we have been
friends ever since we were boy and girl
together ! "

I don't wonder," said Alice. ** Eh,
how I wish Mr. Brian would have made
up his mind to go from home, and do
something of the same kind. Not that I
mean," she added quickly, '' that he is
great, and a genius like Mr. Felix, but it
would have been something for him to do.

something to keep him out of such-ike
mischief as he's got into. When did you
say he was going to America ? "

Some time in September, for the
winter season there. ' They do everything
in winter, over there  in the cities, at any
rate."

AHce nodded, and looked thoughtful,
and soon afterwards wished to take her
leave. Elisabeth, however, insisted on her
having some refreshment, and then she
departed, saying she had a great deal of
household shopping to do in Irkford.

** We only come in about once, or, at
most, twice a year," she explained, " and
when we do come, there's a lot to do."

With the most cordial assurances and
invitations on each side, they parted. Alice
had accomplished her wish  she had
assured herself that Elisabeth had not
forgotten her, or felt less genially to her

than before ; and she had obtained information
about Felix and his intended
movements, which interested her. A half-formed
purpose  more an idea than a
purpose, was already agitating her brain ;
but it was as yet far from being near even
serious consideration.

Meanwhile Elisabeth, left alone for a
few minutes, drew an easy-chair up to her
sitting-room fire, and, throwing herself back
Into it, meditated.

'' What zs there," she wondered extremely
within herself, *' in that young
man, that should make these two girls be
fighting a deadly fight over him, and with
one another, for his favour ? For that's
what it comes to. He seemed to me a
pleasant, mediocre lad enough  rather
good-looking, wasn't he ? yes, blond, with
a bright, open smile ; a little boyish-looking
no particular kind of character, either

one way or the other. There's this noble
Alice Ormerod in love with him, and the
other girl evidently thinks it worth her
while to make an effort to keep him. Is
it mere proximity ? Is it that there's no
one else ? I don't believe that  there are
men enough and to spare, in this division
of the kingdom ! It is not that * Satan
finds some mischief still,' in Alice's case,
at any rate. It's very odd,"  she shrugged
her shoulders. " I give it up. Of course
he's in love with the wrong woman. They
always are. He is idle enough, as Alice
says. It's a pity. I shall tell Ines about
this visit when I write to her. And I think
I shall tell Felix too  shall I ?  I don't
know, but I should like to tell him that
Alice Ormerod has been to see me, and
what is more, I should like to tell him
what my visitor said about him and Ines.
In my opinion, he is playing with fire in

this experiment of his, and will most likely
burn his fingers before he's done. I hope
he will not scorch the little girl to death in
the process, that's all."

CHAPTER VI.

MORNING THOUGHTS.

It was autumn again  October now. The
spring and the summer had swiftly rushed
by, as time does rush that is speeded with
misfortune and disaster. It would be a
profitless task to relate in detail how those
months had fled. They were over, and
the weary story which had begun to be
enacted at Moor Isles, at Ormerod's farm,
and at Jessamine Lawn, twelve months
earlier, was still apparently dragging on.
It did not seem to accelerate its pace, but,
what was of more importance, its movement,
if slow, was always in the same
direction  that is, the downfall of Brian

Holgate, once begun, never ceased. He
would not, now, have allowed it, even if
his enemy had been merciful, and had
stayed his hand.

Of course Brian did not call it ruin  he
called it standing up with spirit against
the man who, he was now quite certain,
wished evil to him, and would gladly have
seen him, if not absolutely stripped of
money and money's worth, yet so reduced
that he should no longer be of any account.
His fierce dislike of Law, aided by other
things, had convinced him that " the fellow,"
as he always called him, even in his own
mind, really was after Lucy. Brian's faith
in Lucy was firm, but it had become a
passionate effort and endeavour with him
to beat Law out of the field, or, at any rate,
not to give in  never, never to give in.
He was not giving in, but he was getting,
if not every day, at least every week, more

Impoverished in the effort to cope with
these two, his companions, as if he were on
equal terms with them, in all that goes sofar
towards success in gambling, as in
everything else  in estate, in experience,
in capacity for the calculation of chances,
in nerve, and sang-froid. He did not take
Jim into account ; it was nothing to him if
he lost to Lucy's brother; but he was embittered
beyond description against Law,
and resolved to fight it all out to the
death.

With regard to his position, he had lost
in their continued games of whist and
poker, more than one half of his patrimony.
His old house remained to him, and rather
less than a hundred pounds a year ; but he
was often straitened for ready money, and
his face now never wore any smile. Lucy's
intention, expressed twelve months ago, to
find out whether the attractions of the

music at Irkford could outweigh that of
what she had been pleased to call his ' old
friends " at Thornton, had been carried out,
and the " old friends " had won the day.
There were no concerts for Brian this
season ; no such healthy, wholesome pleasures
drew him to themselves. The spirit
which had once revelled in such things
seemed to have fled, or been extinguished,
and another to have taken its place. The
journey which, last year, he had so joyfully
undertaken, and the music which had so
well repaid him for his pleasant toils, were
things that, when he thought of them,
seemed to belong to another world. He
was gloomy, irritable, or depressed, as the
case might be. When he lost money to
Jim Barraclough and Dicky Law, and
came home cursing his luck, he drank
brandy to make him forget his reverses.
When, on the other hand, by some unusual

chance, he won from them, he drank more
brandy to celebrate the change In his
fortunes. Everything about him bore the
signs of deterioration, mental and physical.
He was wretched, and he was aware, in
the midst of his own wretchedness, that
he was making others wretched too. He
knew  none better  that it was he who
caused Farmer Ormerod's rugged but
kindly countenance to look stern and hard
when he met him. It was his, Brian's,
present behaviour which brought that sad
look into poor lame Andy's eyes. It was
grieving over his misdoings that had
stamped proud Alice's face with that expression
of unshakable sadness. When
she met him now, and said, " Good-day,
Brian," her voice was softer than it had
ever been before in speaking to him, but
it was with the softness born of pity and
sorrowful disapproval ; and her smile, which

VOL. II. 28

she still tried to show him, was so much
harder to bear in its mournfulness than an
angry frown would have been, that it
wrung his very heart to see her, and he
would even sneak out of the way to avoid
meeting her.

And, what was almost more portentous
than any of these things, Sarah Stott, his
former tyrant, had become utterly meek
and woe-begone. She now never objected
to any order he gave, but received it in
silence, and carried it out to the letter in
lamentation and mourning and woe; almost
the more terrible in that it was expressed
In no articulate word, but conveyed solely
in manner and through a dolorous cast
of countenance. He, and he alone, had
caused this sad change, had drawn the
black cloud over these hitherto smiling
skies. There were times when he cared
nothing about it. When he was excited 

elated or irritated by gain or loss, he would,
if the recollection of this orHef that he had

o

caused crossed his mind, shake his head
impatiently back, and consign them all to
the devil  if they liked to go there. Butin
the earlier parts of the day  those hours
claimed by disagreeable reflection as her
own, and which she generally contrives to
secure  especially when he awoke in the
morning, puzzled and depressed, and when
the remembrance of his losses and his woes
rushed over him, and his nerves were too
unstrung to resist the reproaches of his
conscience  at these moments it was that
the idea of the suffering he was causing to
these faithful, loving souls, was an ache
and a stab, a burden which he felt to be
greater than he could bear. Then their
faces seemed to flit before his mind's eye,
and the slow, saddened tones of their voices
echoed like a dirge in his ears. Everything

in the actual world loomed unnaturally-large,
vague, and dim in his mind. Only
one thing was real  the excitement of the
gambling, which had taken absolute possession
of him. It had been a gradual growth.
At first, as has been said, he disliked the
play, and joined it simply in order to be
near Lucy. And for some time this
endured, the game, when cards were
played, being generally whist, in which
Law was a proficient. Brian found it
stupid ; Law found it irritating to play
with such an infantile performer as Brian ;
and one evening, suddenly pushing aside
the cards with which they had been playing,
he proposed a change.

'' Let's have a turn at poker," he said.

'' All right," said Jim.

I don't know it," was Brian's remark.
He was indifferent. It was a bore. He
knew only that he was heartily sick of

whist, for which he had absolutely no
taste.

'' Oh, we'll soon teach you," said Jim,
cordially. " Let s begin now, and we
won't have any real stakes till Holgate
knows a little where he is. Here's the
chips. Shall we suppose it's five shilling
ante, eh ? "

Law assented, and Brian was forthwith
initiated into the mysteries, the charms,
the fatal fascinations of draw-poker, and by
the end of the evening had grown interested,
but had brought no more insight
to bear upon the subject than was expressed
in his remark when they rose, that
it seemed an uncommonly easy game to
learn.

Oh, uncommonly," said Dicky, mildly.

'' And it seems to me you can leave off
so easily that there's not much risk," added
Brian, astutely.

Yes, of course, you may leave off and
lose nothing at all," Jim assented. '' Only
it's not many who do, somehow."

From that hour Brian was safe and
docile in their hands. He could no more
resist the attraction of the same than a
bird can resist the eye of the snake that
is fixed upon it. He lost, he won, he lost
again. It soon possessed him ; he would
lie awake at night thinking over all the
chances and possibilities of the game,
seeing combinations, or inventing them ;
realizing where he had been a little incautious,
or a shade too cautious here and
there ; determining to bring his newly-acquired
wisdom to bear on the next game,
confident that he understood it and its
possibilities thoroughly. He was in the
net ; perhaps he knew it vaguely and in the
background, but he had not now the least
wish to escape from it. This was reality

at this a man might make his fortune.
Everything else was phantasmal and unstable.
It would have been he who would
have raised objections if the other two had
wished to discontinue the play.

And Lucy  he had never yet found his
opportunity of speaking to her, and asking
her what she wished him to make of himself.
She was there still ; he saw her often
enough, but never alone. It seemed to
him that she, too, was changed and subdued.
Once, soon after the poker era had
set in, it had struck him that perhaps she
might disapprove of his having so thrown
himself into a game so hazardous ; and,
under that idea, he absented himself for
nearly a week from the card-table, but
with the sole result of finding that the
play was almost as difficult to give up as
Lucy was to win, and that its attractions
were rapidly becoming formidable rivals to

hers. As he did not see Jim and Dicky,
he did not see Lucy, either ; he was filled
with fears and suspicions as to what might
be going on, and he not there. At the
end of some five or six days, the inaction,
the loss of excitement, the deadly nausea
produced by the effort to think over his
situation, and to take stock of his present
position and future prospects, had reduced
him to a state of nervous depression and
irritability bordering on aberration. His
existence and his sensations were unendurable.
He could think of but one
method of procuring relief for them.

With a plunge, he rushed back again
into the old ways, and in the excitement
of watching his chances, got at least a
temporary fillip to his limp, unstrung
nerves, and forgot, for a season, his actual
position. He lived, now, in a state of
moral drunkenness, sometimes of physical

drunkenness, too, but of the former always,
so that he could no longer discern what
were realities and what falsities. His
judgment, his nerve, his will, were all
weakened, were all getting undermined.
What shock would restore the balance, or
whether it ever would be restored, who
should say ? Some temperaments, after
their big breakdown, either physical,
mental, or moral, recover, and grow
stronger, tougher, and more self-sustaining
as the years go on. Others, more delicately
poised, or of weaker calibre, never
recover the original strength  much less
do they surpass it in the years that follow
the crash. They continue living, moving,
looking very much as they used to look,
but they are maimed ; and if ever they
were put to the test, the weak point would
show at once.

Brian awoke, one morning in late

October, from a heavy, but far from restful
sleep, during which he had tossed and
turned, dreamed and groaned, after the
fashion of anything but a quiet mind. He
had come home very late at night, or
rather, very early in the morning, having
won, but so little that his gains did not
allay the sensations with which he was
filled, of rage and bitterness over his
persistent '' ill-luck ; " less capable than
ever of admitting that it was not so much
want of luck, as want of skill and experience
 inferiority to the other players,
in fact  that always, nearly, placed him in
the position of loser ; less capable than
ever of giving it up, in consequence, and
washing his hands of the whole business.
No, he was going to Jessamine Lawn
again to-night, of that he was certain, and
the same wearisome, tedious, feverish story
would be gone through again.

The sensations, both mental and physical,
which he experienced in this awakening
were horrible. He awoke to darkness.
A great black abyss seemed to encompass
him round about. Look whither he would,
he could see no gleam of light, no cheer,
no hope or confidence. It was quite late
after ten in the forenoon, when he awoke,
and, after a struggle with himself, managed
to rise and dress himself, and to crawl
downstairs. Though the sadder season
of the year was approaching, this was a
lovely, sunshiny morning, mild, still, and
genial. The front door stood open, and
Overran lay on the top step, lifted his head
at the sound of his master's footfall, rose,
and advanced to meet him, with curving
motions of love and pleasure, and with
affectionately down-drooped head.

Brian, seeing him, and seeing also the
sun shining in so pleasantly, went and

Stood at the open door, the limp tips of
his Hip fingers just resting on the faithful
beast's head. He leaned sideways against
the lintel, and looked forth upon the prospect,
without any care to feign an expression
of the ease and contentment that
he did not feel. And as he stood thus,
Sarah Stott, who had also heard his
footstep, came from the kitchen, with a
tray in her hands, containing some of his
breakfast. The old woman, passing to the
dining-room, caught sight of his face, and
of its expression. She hastened into the
room, set her tray down in haste, and
put her hand to her head, suppressing a
groan.

EKyi3iit it's awful ! It fair flees me to
see yoni face, and to think as it's our Brian
as wears it." She shook her head. All
her oracular knowledge, her wise saws and
sayings, were here as so much vacant chaff,

powerless to avail aught with him for good
or for evil.

She set the things on the table, and
then came out to him, with a look of
greater composure.

Mr. Brian, your breakfast s ready for
you.

He nodded, without moving, or looking
at her ; but did not look as if he meant
to come in. She went a little nearer, and
laid her hand upon his arm.

'' Come, lad ! " said she ; '' come and feet
thi' breakfast, and don't stand their, wi'
that gloppent look  come, Brian, thwart
nesh for want o' food."

'' I don't care if I never see food again,
Sally'' he told her, looking with a dreary
smile into the face of his erstwhile crabbed
and tyrannical servitor. But he suffered
her to pull him gently into the diningroom,
and dropped listlessly into the chair

she set for him. Sarah Stott retreated
into the kitchen, and, hardened old sinner
that she was, covered her face with her
apron, and wept.

'' Eh, my lad ! " she muttered sobbingly ;
'' eh, my bonny, bonny lad ! To think it
should ha' come to this ! What's to bethe
end of it all ? "

From this attitude she was roused by
the appearance, at the door, of the carrier,
to know if there was anything to be done
in Hollowley.

Nay," said she, " nowt nobbut to call
at Mary Mitchell's on your way back, forth'
washin'  that's all."

Ay ! " said the man, '' I have to fetch
away Barraclough's washin' too, from there.
They've sent a deal o' their things to
Mary, lately, and it's a help to her."

Mrs. Stott, whose eyes were by this
time perfectly dry, sniffed contemptuously.

*' I thought Mary Mitchell professed
only to wash for th' gentry," said she.

Well, Barracloughs reckons to be
gentry. They've money enough, choose-how."


Humph ! Gentry ! My certe, them
gentry ! " she laughed scornfully. " / saw
some of their things one day, when I called
in to see Mary. Cotton towels . " (No
words can paint the withering scorn of her
tone.) '' A dozen or two of 'em. They
have 'em all o'er the house. That's no
gentry's habits. You might as well dry
yourself' with a duster ; every bit. There's
never been such a thing seen i' this house,
and never shall, while I manage it ; and we
don't set up to be so very grand, other."

** Well, well," said the carrier, who was
a peaceable man, " I'll call for your
washin' and tell Mary I'm not to bring no
cotton towels along wi' me."

He departed, and Mrs. Stott, somewhat
refreshed by this speaking out her mind,
went about her work with renewed vigour.

As for Brian, all unconscious of the able
championship of his domestic arrangements
which was being carried on in the kitchen,
he did not remain long at table, nor was
there visible much difference in the amount
of victual left upon the board when he
rose from it. This time, he took his hat
from a peg, and, followed by Ferran, went
out into the garden, lighted a pipe, and
strolled down the steps of the quaint little
terraces in which the bit of ground was
laid out, till he had descended to the
lowest level  a larger space than the rest,
planted with fruit-trees and vegetables,
and with a number of old-fashioned* red
and white rose bushes, growing contentedly
amongst the gooseberry and currant trees.
There he found an elderly man, working

with spade and rake, a bundle of weeds
lying on the ground near him. He had
a pale, somewhat pragmatic aspect, and
looked up and nodded as Brian approached.

Trying to make this old place look
decent, Bill ? " said the young man drearily,
as he paused for a moment, and removed
his pipe from his mouth.

*' Ay," was the reply, *' and it's none so
hard, either. It's been well looked after,
has this here old harding."

Well, I've lost most of my money. Bill.
I think this will have to be about the last
time you'll have to come."

'' Dun yo' mean as I dunno garden so
as to suit you ? " he asked crossly.

*' Nay, nay, but that soon I shan't have
money enough to pay you for what you
do so well."

'* Ah, weel  we con settle that some
other time. Shoo-oo ! "  to a hen which

VOL. II. 29

had found its way over the wall from
Ormerod's, and was now diligently scraping
up a well-ordered bed. *' Ay ! " he added,
with a kind of slow, sententious chuckle,
as the creature, with much fluttering, fuss,
and clucking, flew back to its proper place,
''yo' can garden so as to suit a man, or
even a woman, though they're a tickle sort
o' fowl to satisfy, but yd cannot garden so
as to suit a hen "  in tones of solemn conviction.
'' They'll mend it for you, how yo'
mak' it. They can ne'er let well alone."

Brian burst into a short, mirthless laugh,
as he leaned on the wooden gate which
led into a great, bare pasture, sloping for
several acres downhill.

'' No, you're about right there," he said
drily.

The man glanced up at him, sideways,
and looked thoughtful. He had known
Brian all his life, and he, too, saw the

changed expression, the haggard eyes, and
hollow cheeks.

Have yo' heard o' my feather's travels,
Mr. Brian ?" he asked.

'' No ; where has he been ? "

** Well, yo' seen, he's near ninety, is my
feather, and he hasn't been so very far
afield, all his life. But he were forced to
gang down to Hollowley last week, along
o' some lawyer's business. He hadn't left
Thornton not for nigh on ten years ; but'
he were always uncommon interested in
anything he heard tell of. And he said he
nun get his will settled, and he nun have
a ride in one o' these here steam-trams.
So he did both ; and he coom whom fair
beside hissed ; he were so pleased wi' it all.
And he told us  he says, * Eh, but them
trams are a queer mak,' he says ; * there's
a healer realm,' he says, ' and a locker
realm, there is,' says he, ' and th' healer

realm's a windy spot'* B' the mass ! we
chaffed at him  we did so ! "

Brian again laughed, rather drearily.
The time had been when he would have
chatted with the man, drawing him out,
and hearing all kinds of quaint, old-world
lore and expressions, hearing the words
used which are to be found in the " Faerie
Queene," and which are to this day vernacular
in this district, and in no other
part of England. He used to delight in
such little talks. But not to-day. He
moved on, nodding to Bill, and wishing
him a brief good morning, and then he
went back towards the house. The man
looked after him, with a shrewd, commiserating
expression.

In a bad way ! " he said to himself, and
went on with his weeding.

*' There's a higher place, and a lower place, and
the higher place is a windy spot"  i.e., draughty, cold.

Many hours lay before Brian ere the
business of the evening could begin  the
question was how to get through with
them. Nowadays, when he had once
opened his eyes in the morning, from his
heavy, yet refreshing sleep  when he
had once aroused from the wild dreams
which pursued him, and showed the depraved
state into which his nerves had got
no feeling of rest or repose, no momentary
drowsiness, even, ever came to his
aid during the long day. It had to be
lived through, and endured with full, over-clear
consciousness ; every moment to be,
as it were, reckoned with. The daylight
hours had become a long torture to Brian,
and, having once arrived at that condition
of mind, there was little wonder if he
looked forward with a hungry longing to
the evening, when at any rate there would
be excitement to drown the thoughts

which had accumulated, black and dreary,
during the day.

This morning, going into the house
again, he wandered for a time, aimlessly,
from one room to another, and at last,
coming to a standstill in the larger parlour,
his eyes fell on yesterday's newspaper,
lying still folded, on the top of the piano.
It was one of the large Irkford papers,
and he picked it up, more in absence of
mind than anything else, and casting himself
into an easy-chair, opened it, and
glanced over it. The first page contained,
as usual, announcements of all the amusements
 concerts, theatres, public meetings,
religious gatherings, circuses, free-thought
lectures, etc. Conspicuous amongst them
was the advertisement of the coming
concert.

Mr. Frank Warburton's grand concerts.
To-morrow" (that, he reminded

himself listlessly, now meant to-day) '* Mr.
Felix will sing * The Sapling Oak and
the aria from Marschner's opera, ' Hans
Telling.'  ' An jenem Tag' da du noir
Tree versprochen! "

Lord, what a distance off It all seems,"
thought Brian, bitterly and wearily.
'' What's to hinder me from going to the
concert to-night, as I used to do ? I'm not
so weak in body yet nor so poverty-stricken
in purse, that I couldn't manage that."

But though he did not admit it to
himself, but continued to dally aimlessly
with the idea of going to Irkford, yet the
fact remained that he had no longer the
power of will to accomplish such a breaking
loose from the present state of things.
In his heart he knew well enough that he
would not go to the concert ; but would,
after getting through the day as best he
could, and when night had set In, go up to

Jessamine Lawn, and there resume the
now nightly occupation.

Then he opened the broadsheet, idly
still, and on the middle page saw a paragraph
headed, *' Approaching departure of
Mr. Felix for America." There followed
the information that tomorrow's concert
afforded the last opportunity which the
English public would for some time enjoy
of hearing their favourite artist, as Mr.
Felix sailed on Saturday from Liverpool for
New York, in the Cunarder, Batavia, with
the intention of making a prolonged stay
in America, and of singing in all the
principal cities of the United States and
Canada. He would remain in Irkford
until the Saturday morning, when, accompanied
by friends, he would leave for
Liverpool, and sail at 2 p.m. The sole
manager and agent for Mr. Felix during
his American tour, it was added, was Mr.

Charles Percival, who accompanied him,
and it was requested that any inquiries or
communications might be made to him at
such and such an address, and by letter
only.

Brian read this paragraph with suddenly
roused interest and attention ; then threw
the paper down and reflected upon the
matter. He was in no mood to do justice
to others, or to see his own or any one
else's circumstances in a true light, and he
bitterly and angrily asked himself what he
had done that there should be so great a
difference between his lot and that of this
other man. Felix himself had spoken in
the highest terms of the quality of Brian's
voice, and had said that had he only begun
an artist's career early enough, he might
have ranked with the very first of them.
Felix had his voice and nothing else 
Brian had an absolute genius for that most

difficult and delicate of instruments, the
violin. Felix, again, had started on his
career with scarce an advantage  his father
was, and always had been a poor man ; had
failed disastrously in his brief attempt to
cope with business men on their own
ground ; had thankfully retired into obscurity
and lived there since, a learned,
unworldly scholar, existing on some three
hundred pounds a year. Felix had succeeded
; none but himself knew how hard,
how unflinchingly he had had to set his
shoulder to the wheel ; how many inborn
likes and dislikes he had smothered or
silenced in order to gain that success.
Brian had begun life with more than old
Mr. Arkwright's income assured to him,
ample funds on which to live while he
studied and worked. He had had no incumbrances,
no dependents, no poor relations
to drag him down  nothing but

himself and his own advantage to consider.
Yet here was the one man a world-famous
artist, whose smallest doings and movements
were chronicled like those of royalty,
and whose exercise of his art procured for
him just as much money as he chose to
ask for. Moreover, in him, as Brian had
observed (with delight and admiration
then, with sour envy and bitterness now),
there was a strong, self-reliant independence
of outside things, a cheerful, sane, and
healthy way of looking at life and of taking
things as they came, which added to the
charm he exercised over those with whom
he came in contact.

'* I dare say," Brian muttered angrily to
himself, " I should feel cheerful and independent
if I were like him  a sort of king,
with all the world at his feet, and men
envying him and women worshipping him.
Ah, if I were Hke that, Lucy would not

hold out any longer ! I should be sure of
her, the only thing I care for, and  ay,
there's no rhyme or reason in it  why one
man should have everything and another
nothing."

At this instant Mrs. Stott entered the
room, with floury hands and with a
cooking-apron covering her gown.

"Eh, Mr. Brian, are you their? Esther
Ormerod's sent across to ask if you'd lend
him yesterday's newspaper for an hour or
two. There's summit as he wants to see
in it."

'ray, there it is," said Brian, pointing
to it as it lay on the floor. " He's
welcome, and he can keep it. I've done
with it."

'why not tak' it across chisel', lad? It's
long enough sin' thou were their. They'll
be fain to see thee", she said coaxingly.

He shook his head with vexation.

Nay, give it to the servant, or whoever it
is," he said shortly.

And poor old Sarah, not wishing to
irritate him (she who had never hesitated
to speak her mind to him as plainly as if
he had been her own child), took the paper
and left the room with a sigh.

Farmer Ormerod found what he wanted
in the Irkford Chronicle; it contained
every week an excellent article, entitled
Farm Notes," treating of butter-making,
cattle rearing, silage, sweet and sour, and
the best methods of preserving it, with
other matters appertaining to the mysteries
of farming life, and the good man studied
it and laid it down.

That same evening, just about the time
at which Brian's steps turned towards
Jessamine Lawn, Alice Ormerod, wearied
with a hard day's work  she worked very
hard now, with a sort of insatiate fury

for employment not natural to her well-balanced
organization  seated herself in the
ingle, having exhausted every task she
could find ; and she also picked up the
newspaper, and, after looking over it at
first indifferently, she likewise appeared to
find something which interested her, for
she read attentively for some time and
then sat and gazed into the fire, unconscious
of the scorching of her face and eyes ; and
the thought in her heart as she shook her
head sadly and sternly was 

Eh, if only that could have been ! "

CHAPTER VII.

BRIAN PLAYS A LOSING GAME.

Despite the rural solitude in which Jessamine
Lawn was situated, and the engaging
innocence of Its name, very late hours were
constantly kept there  hours which wei*e
whiled away in anything but innocent
employments. It was seldom that the
party of card or billiard players separated
before the small hours, by which time Mr.
Barraclough the elder would have been
for some hours in his bed, and Lucy, too,
would have sought her couch ; or, at any
rate, her room, whether she slumbered or
not. Then, when they at last gave up,
Brian would pass his hand over his forehead,

hot and burning with the excitement
of the play, and would try to bring
himself back again into the actual present,
while the others, paper and pencil in hand,
made out the reckonings. He generally
went away with one of these little accounts
in his pocket, containing a business-like
statement of his losses  rarely of his gains
which account he was free to contemplate
on the following morning ; free, also,
to speculate upon the best means of
procuring the necessary amount, if he did
not happen to have it in the house. He
always brought it up with him on the
following evening, when a peaceful settlement
took place all round, losers paying
up like men, and winners pocketing their
gains with the easy grace of conquerors ;
and then, all scores being cleared, they
were free to start afresh, "with easy
minds," as Jim affably observed.

It SO happened that on this particular
evening the proceedings were not destined
to be carried on as late as usual, as will be
related. It also so happened that Brian
had no occasion to take with him either
gold, notes, or cheques, as he had gone
away the night before slightly the winner.
But, as has been related, he went In an evil
frame of mind and a shattered condition
of nerves, down on his luck, suspicious
and jealous, and passionately anxious to
worst Law, and beat him out of the field.

The three of them sat down about nine
o'clock to the usual poker. Brian's brief
run of luck of the evening before seemed
to have deserted him, and he still trusted
to luck, never having fairly grasped the
adage which Law had so often uttered,
namely, that '' cards, In poker, are nothing
compared to knowing what to do with
them when you've got them." Brian's

VOL. II. 30

hands were wretchedly bad, and he felt
his irritation rising as one after another
was dealt to him, each one, as it seemed,
worse than the last. He failed to note
that the others were very little better off
than he was. The betting was not exciting
; the pools were small, and were
taken now by Law, now by Jim, but never
by Brian. They played on for more than
an hour ; there was nothing to presage a
storm, or the occurrence of anything remarkable,
and Brian began to realize that
amusements are sometimes as hard work
as the treadmill. He was sick of it, and
would gladly have given up, but that would
have been too ignominious. It was a
lesson to find that the wild game of poker
could sink into a miserable inanity, no
more interesting than would have been the
measuring out yards of ribbon over a
counter. Jim was saturnine, Dicky imperturbable,

as usual. Law was watching
Brian quietly the whole time, and the first
change in the state of things at last took
place when the deal happened to be
Brian's. His chance, it seemed to him,
had now arrived. He found that he had
dealt himself three kings, a three, and a four.

He could no more have helped the
change that came over his countenance,
incautious though it was to give the
slightest sign, than he could have flown.
He raised his head, and, with an excited
look, said 

'' Here goes ! I'll make good my ante,
and five pounds better. Who's for playing?


Dicky, after one imperceptible glance
around, saw the raise without the slightest
change of expression. Jim, whose cards
were worth absolutely nothing, threw them
down.

I'm out," he observed.

*' So it's between you and me," said
Dicky, with his gentle smile. " Well, I
haven't much to boast of, but I'll see you
through, anyhow. I'll take one card, if
you please."

Jim raised his eyebrows at the apparent
artless candour of this admission, but spoke
not. Brian gave a card to Law, and dealt
two to himself, retaining his kings, and
discarding his three and four. The cards
he drew were nothing less than two aces,
giving him a *' Full," not to be beaten by
anything less than " Fours."

Humph ! " said Dicky, quietly; ** threes,
I suppose, and you beg for a full, but I've
seen you do that before."

"He means It this time," said Jim, carelessly.
*' Keep your hand steady, Vulgate."



You mind your own business," said

Brian, In sudden irritation, and shaken by
the excitement of it  " you haven't paid
either to play or to criticise ! " Then,
turning to Dicky', he added, '' It's no good,
whatever you get  you had better passover
the pool and let us start fresh."

*' Thanks for your good advice. Let's
get on with the game. I bet five pounds."
See the five, and ten better."
"See the ten, and five better."
*' See the five, and fifty better," said
Brian, frowning and going rather pale.

"Oh, here's a high old bluff!" muttered
Jim, who was looking on with extreme
interest.

Brian did not notice him. Dicky, appearing
not to notice anything, took up his
cards, which were laid before him, and
examined them carefully, as if to be sure
he had fallen into no error. Then, half to
himself 

It's robbery  I've half a mind to seethe
fifty, and stop it." He darted a quick
glance from under his half-closed lids at
Brian, and after the lapse of a second or
two, " See your fifty, and five better."

*' See your five, and a hundred pounds
better," followed quick as thought from
Brian.

Holloa, Holgate ! are you aware that
It will cost me a hundred to go on ? "

Yes, I am. Put up your hundred, and
as much better as you like."

'' Humph ! See the hundred, and five
better."

*' I say," observed Jim, " I call this
getting too stiff. I'd drop it, if I were
you.

It's not for me to drop it," retorted
Law, calmly. '' My raises are only five
pounds. It's the most I dare do."

See your five, and five hundred better*

said Brian, also calmly, but not with the
calm of an easy mind.

Oh, Lord ! " said Jim, in his own mind.
** What must such a fellow play poker for
he shows every change in his face, like
a girl when you pay her compliments.
He's got a big hand, too, to go on like
this."

*' I suppose you know what you are
doing," said Dicky, deliberately. '' Because
I know where I am ; and if you're simply
blushing, remember, I can last longer than
you can."

(" By George ! What does he mean,
talking in that way ? " was Jim's inward
comment.)

There was an angry flash in Brian's eye,
as he answered, '' I'm going to do as I
please in this game, without your advice or
any one else's."

He knew that if Law had fours. It must

have been dealt to him, since he had only
begged one card  and he knew, too, that
the chances against such a thing were
about four thousand to one. He would
push it on to the bitter end. And he
looked wrathfully at his opponent ; while
Jim, again within the recesses of his own
mind, said to himself, '' Good Lord ! it's
like playing with a baby ! "

*' As you like," said Law. 'rit's my
turn to bet. I believe you have six
hundred and eighty on now. I'll make it
seven hundred to oblige you. So it will
cost you twenty pounds to play."

I'll see it through," said Brian. *' What
do you call Moor Isles worth ? "

Moor Isles  what do you mean } "
came from both the others.

"What I say. What value would you
stake against it ? "

This is absurd' said Law.

"Told you I would do as I pleased,"
said Brian, doggedly. " Name the amount
you think it is worth, and stake 'against it,
or pass over the stakes to me."

*' Moor Isles is worth  from seven hundred
and fifty to a thousand pounds," said
Law, slowly.

** Say a thousand," Brian remarked.

"Well, a thousand  and if you stake it,
it may stand as a thousand pounds staked.
If you will do it. You had better consider."


Brian, perfectly oblivious, in his excitement,
of the fact that Law could at any
moment stop the game, and that he never
did, but each time dexterously " raised "
his opponent, said 

It's twenty pounds to play this time.
There's my note for Moor Isles. See
your twenty, and a thousand better."

That means," said Law, as if reflecting,

and warning Brian at the same time, " that
I can see your hand if I make good the
thousand."

"Yes, that is it," said Brian; and his
breath seemed to fail him. The game was
his  that Law had no such cards as his
own, he was convinced. This victory
would compensate for all the previous
defeats he had sustained.

It will cost me a thousand pounds to
see your hand," said Dick, pensively.
Well, see your thousand, and one thousand
better! Now it will cost you a
thousand to see mine ! "

Brian saw on the instant how he had
been fooled. Because Law had raised
five and ten pounds steadily throughout
the frame, he had decided that he would
continue raising five and ten pounds. He
had intended to " see " Law this time, and
show his hand. There was no question of

any such thing now. He had not the fifth
part of a thousand pounds left in the world.
He could not pay what was necessary to
enable him to see Law's hand. Law, whoso
quietly went a thousand better, had any
number of thousands more with which to
continue his game. Brian knew that he
was entrapped, beaten, ruined.

*' I can't see that," he said, and laid his
cards down. The cards, the table, and the
forms of his companions swam before his
eyes. It was only with a mighty effort,
resulting from his almost insane determination
not to give in before Law, that he at
last pulled himself together again, and
heard Dicky's voice, saying quietly 

I take the pool."

It seems so," said Brian, mechanically,
staring from one to the other of them, and
feeling as if he were still in a nightmare.
The strain had been horrible.

Jim, when Brian's haggard eyes rested
upon his face, withdrew his, and looked at
the table, the cards, the chips  at anything.

Would you like another game ? " asked
Dicky, civilly.

*' No  unless you like to play on  for
love," said Brian, with a grim little laugh.

*' Not much fun in that," was Jim's somewhat
embarrassed contribution to the conversation.
*' No, I vote we stop for
to-night, and tomorrow Holgate can think
about it, and see how he stands. We
should be sorry to lose him."

'' Oh, very," said Dicky, politely. '' But
it might be as well for him to stop fora
bit. He doesn't look well, and you
ought to be up to the mark all round, to
get any enjoyment out of poker."

These were the only words by which
Law expressed any triumph over his ruined
opponent, but they were more than enough.

Brian stood up, and walked away from
the table. Jim, leaning over to his friend,
asked in a low voice  -

What the devil did you hold ? "

Dicky looked at him quietly. " I asked
Holgate a thousand pounds to see my hand,
and he wouldn't. Do you think you are
going to see it for nothing ? "

And he shuffled his five cards into the
pack.

I don't mind about staying any longer,"
said Brian, from the other end of the room.
'' I'll go back  to Moor Isles. I wonder
if Lucy is up yet ? I'll say good night to
her if she is. Perhaps it may be a longtime
before I see her again."

'' I don't know," began Jim, with a look
of sheepishness and hang-sluggishness combined.
" It's after eleven, you know,
and "

Oh, I guess she won't have gone yet'

said Dicky, cheerfully, and with an appearance
of the greatest candour. '' As you
say, Holgate, why not say good night to
her now ? Come along, Jim."

But just at this juncture, before Brian
could inform them that he wanted none of
their company in the interview he was
seeking, the door was opened, and Lucy
herself looked into the room, as she occasionally
did, before going to bed. At first
her face wore a slight smile, and her eyes
travelled involuntarily in the direction of
the card-table. Then a look of surprise
crossed her countenance at the unexpected
vision of the three men standing, with
anything but undisturbed expressions, instead
of being, as usual, seated, silent and
intent, round the card-table. She missed
the customary rapid upward glance of
Brian at her entrance  a glance which, in
spite of her double-dealing, she felt the

want of, and to which she unconsciously
looked forward.

'' What ! Have you done already ? "
she began, and came a little forward into
the room, for, truth to tell, she was glad
of a little company of any kind in these
latter days, and the prospect of half an
hour's chat, even with these three men,
every one of whom bored her no little in
reality, presented itself as a pleasant
alternative than finishing her lonely evening
by going to her lonely room, and lying
awake for several hours, wishing that Brian
Holgate would go. Despite her resolve
to punish Alice Ormerod through Brian,
Lucy had no desire to punish Brian himself;
she was sincerely uneasy about his
present conduct, and she had become
wakeful of late. The thing had got on to
her nerves, and she had acquired the bad
habit of listening and watching, not for

some one to come, as Is often the case
with women, who can only wait, cannot
do, but for some one to go ; before she
could slumber  and the effects of a mid-might
waking are very much the same,
from whatever cause It may arise.

"Yes, we're quite good and virtuous,"
Dicky answered, as the other two made
no reply to her. " We have finished for
to-night, and were just about to part
company."

Lucy began both to feel and look uneasy.
She disliked It ever, Ashen Dicky
spoke In that genial, satisfied tone, as if he
were an Innocent, open-hearted creature
who wished well to all the world, and
could not imagine that any one could
possibly wish any evil to him. Reasoning
from the known to the unknown, she looked
quickly at Brian, and could not understand
the import of his expression. He was pale

he had been pale for a long time now.
He did not look excited  his eyes were
cast down, and he was smiling a little, In a
peculiar way which she did not like. Dick's
smiling and pleasant. J Im, her brother,
did not seem altogether at his ease ; as it
seemed to Lucy he did not look quite
satisfied with everything. And there was
something In the air, as it were, which
filled her with uneasiness, though they
were all three apparently so quiet and
collected.

Certainty may be considered by some
strong natures preferable to suspense, but
the impulse which suddenly took possession
of Lucy with overwhelming force was to
get away from this scene  to leave it and
these three silent men to wind up their
accounts alone. She did not want to know
what the something was that lay behind it
all. She felt as if she would much rather

VOL. II. 31

not know It ; and, acting on this impulse,
she said 

"Oh, well, then I won't come In. It's
after eleven  time for all decent people to
be in their beds ; so I'll wish you goodnight."


Stop one moment, Lucy," said Brian,
in a low voice  he spoke rather quickly
too  that was the only sign he showed of
any excitement or agitation. ' I've something
to say to you. Perhaps I shall not
see you again for a long time. I need not
take up time with telling you why. My
friends here will explain that afterwards."
(Dicky nodded as if to say, "Ay, I will,
old fellow." Jim wriggled uncomfortably.)
anyhow, that's the truth. I'm forced to
go away from here, and it may be long
before I come back. So I wanted to say
good-bye to you, and to tell you "

"Why, Brian, what should make you

want to go away ? " she Interrupted, her
woman's instinct discerning at once what
kind of words he was intending to say to
her, heedless of the presence of the other
two, who, indeed, did not at this moment
exist for Brian, in the almost savage joy
he felt at finding the barriers at last
broken down which, invisible and intangible
though they were, had yet all this time
prevented him from speaking out to Lucy
as effectually as if they had been compose[
of triple plates of steel. It was strange,
though it never struck him, that for months
he had been waiting to see her alone, and
win her over to him, and had allowed all
kinds of small obstacles to prevent the
interview, and now he felt the strength
and the power to set everything and everyone
else aside, and say just what had been
burning in his heart, and eating it out for
so long.

And Lucy knew this ; she saw In an
instant what he meant to say, and a great
fear took possession of her, so that she felt
as If she would rather die than hear what
he was bent upon uttering. But her feeble
effort to stave it aside was futile. This
time it was he, not she, who was strong
and who ordered how things should go.

*' Why should I want to go  because I'm
ruined ! " he answered, without any hurry
or bluster, but with a calm that was much
worse than all the ranting and raging ever
indulged in by ruined man. '' I'm ruined ;
stripped naked and bare  not in law, I
suppose, but in honour." (Lucy stood
still ; the words were like a horrible echo
of the conversation she had had with
Dicky more than a year ago.) *' And it
has all happened for your sake, Lucy ; not
that I want to blame you," he added hastily,
as he saw a sudden expression of terror

come over her face. '* Oh no ! You are
not to blame ; and, for your sake, I don't
grudge it. A man must take his chances,
I suppose, and to win you it is only right
that he should work very hard and have
something to offer you worth your accepting.
And so long as I had the means of
getting near you without working, do you
see, it was too strong for me. I couldn't
tear myself away. Now I shall be obliged
to. There's nothing else for it, and I
don't mind. I'm young and I'm strong,
and I can get on well enough when there's
nothing to keep me back. And you won't
mind waiting, I know. It won't be for
long, and if it were, you would be the
same to me if you were old and withered
as you are now, never doubt that, Lucy."
His voice sank into a tone of the deepest
tenderness, and his face took an almost
rapt expression, so that poor, passionate.

vacillating Brian Holgate looked beautiful
with an almost unearthly beauty through
the expression which lit the eyes and
suffused the countenance worn with excitement
and with the furious mental wear
and tear of the last twelve months. He
advanced towards her, holding out his
hand.

Lucy stood white and speechless before
him, feeling that the long-accumulating
results of the game she had been playing
had now gathered themselves together,
and that there was no escape from them.
If she had been alone with him, she might
have abased herself and explained, or she
might have cajoled and deceived him once
again. As it was she was utterly powerless,
defenceless, and while listening with
hot cheeks to Brian's passionate words,
could all the while only hope, in a feeble,
helpless kind of fashion, that Dicky would.

out of his distaste for scenes of any kind,
let the farce be played out without telling-brian
the pitiless truth. It all depended
on his good pleasure. Now she saw to
what an extent she had placed herself in
his hands. Until she had got a word ora
sign from him she was paralyzed and
tongue-tied.

Brian had literally forgotten the other
two. It was Law's voice which once more
awakened him to the fact of their presence.

Lucy," said the master of the situation,
coming round and standing beside her,
you may see that Holgate is a good deal
excited. We'll hope things are not so bad
with him as he's disposed to think, and in
the mean time, as he seems to be under
some little mistake about your feelings for
him, we had better have a proper explanation.
It is best to face facts always ; I
think he does best to go away, and it's

quite natural he should wish to say goodbye
to you. You're old friends, and I
understand all that. But it would be a
pity to let him go away under a false
impression about either of us ; therefore,
we may as well tell him that most likely
when he comes back, he'll find Lucy Barra-clough
has become Lucy Law  eh ? Do
you see, Holgate ? Lucy and I are
engaged to one another, though we have
not cared to say anything about it ; and I
see she is not inclined to talk about it
much, even now. Ladies often do not like
to have a fuss made about these things.
Still," he added soothingly to her, "you
need not look as if you were going to
faint, Lucy," and he supported her with his
arm, for in very truth she looked as if she
could not stand.

Keep your hands off her, you dog ! "
said Brian, looking at him, his eyes blazing

scornfully from his pale face while he
stood and looked at them both, and
became, if possible, each moment more
white, more wrathful, and more despairing-looking.
" No doubt you'd like well
enough to have her. Do you think I've
never seen that all this time ? But she
isn't going to be entrapped by you in that
way. Engaged to you, you pitiful, lying
sneak! If she weren't here I'd give you
the name you deserve ! " He laughed unpleasantly.


All this, it must be remembered, was
taking place very quietly. The voices
were not raised ; the gestures were not
excited of any of them. It was not a
brawl, but a life-and-death grapple, and
any one outside passing the closed door
would have heard nothing more than the
ordinary tones of an ordinary conversation.
Brian turned to Lucy once more,

and his voice melted Into all the music It
was capable of, and that was a great deal.

Nay, Lucy," he said, ** come to me 
don't fancy I will ever let him touch you "
though It was Law's arm which at this
moment kept her from falling  " come
here and tell me he lies  not that I need
to hear It, but just to settle him."

Yes, tell him I He, Lucy," said Dicky
to her, with a calm undisturbed by Brian's
low-toned, passionate Invective. He held
her more firmly in his arm, and Brian, for
all his brave words, stood there and did
not fell him to the ground.

Tell him, Lucy," said Dicky again.
Do I lie, or do I speak the truth ? "

Speak, Lucy ! " said Brian, after another
pause ; " it's you who have got to settle
this thing now. He says you have promised
to marry him. I say it's a lie. Is
It a lie, or Is it not ? "

No ! " came In a whisper from Lucy's
lips, but in a whisper which was audible
enough to all those who heard it.

'' It's best to face facts," said Brian, a
sudden sharp, cruel look crossing his face
the kind of look which can come into
the kindliest eyes, the sort of feeling which
can overmaster the sweetest natures under
certain combinations of circumstances. It
was as much the Instinct to preserve himself
and not own that he was beaten, .as
any desire to torture her, which prompted
his next words.

Best to face facts. So you have lied
to me ? "

No answer.

'' You have tricked me and duped me."

Silence.

'' You have known what was orolnof on
here, and you have sat by and never said a
word."

Still she did not speak.

And all the time you knew I was
coming here for your sake, and you were
letting him make love to you, and knew
all that was going on  you were letting
him do as he pleased with me."

There was another pause. Dicky
whispered something into Lucy's ear to
the effect that she must not mind  Holgate
was mad with defeat  it would all passover.
Brian meantime walked close up to
them and said to her 

Lucy ! "

She looked up. What she felt was that
she hated them all, and would have liked
to make them every one suffer what she
was suffering now.

'' You've done this," he said, smiling ;
you are no better than a ."

Lucy shuddered as the shameful epithet
struck her ears. Brian went on in the
same deliberate way 

*' It's just the same sort of thing that the
worst girl on the streets would do. Some
of them wouldn't. They would have some
pity. A man may be very sorry for that
sort of girl, but he doesn't want to marry
her ; at least, I don't. It seems there's one
ready to take you, so I'll leave you to him
and wish you good night ! "

Dicky's arm was powerless to support
Lucy any longer. She writhed out of his
clasp and sank in a terrified, sobbing heap
against a chair which stood near. Horrible,
horrible words ! Could a woman ever get
over such a shame ? And what, oh, what
had she ever done to deserve that such
words should be addressed to her ? Was
ever a girl more cruelly and unreservedly
ill-used than she had been ? And that it
should have been said to her before these
two other men ! She suddenly sprang up,
made two steps to her brother, seized his
arm, and, in a panting voice, cried 

"Jim, you coward! you coward! How
dare you let him say it ? It's your fault,
and you's ! " she turned with maddened
eyes towards Law ; " and you let me bear
the punishment ! "

I say," said Jim, turning to Brian,
you'd better look out what you are saying
to my sister, or it will be the worse for
you."

"Your sister is worthy of her brother,
and does honour to him ; and her lover
and your friend is the exact match of you
both," replied Brian, with a sneering laugh,
as he walked towards the door. "No
doubt it seems all right to you, but
some people have a way of thinking that
the sort of thing you've been doing is not
what honest men and women do. You can
easily judge whether the cap fits."

With that he closed the door and left the
house, leaving them to consider his words.

CHAPTER VIII.

ELISABETH IS DISAPPOINTED.

On the Friday morning, the day after
that scene at Jessamine Lawn, EHsabeth
Reichardt and Felix Arkwright sat together
in her house, over, it must be confessed,
an inordinately late breakfast. There had
been a supper party the night before, at
the house of one of their musical friends,
and to-night Elisabeth was having a farewell
reception for her friend at her own
house. Perhaps neither of the good souls
had the courage to face the prospect of
a quiet evening tete-ct-tctc, with the parting
of the morrow standing before them. Old

Mr. Reichardt, who had, in good old
German fashion, had his Frilhstiick, Literally
his '* early bit," long ago, and had, ever
since, been diligence employed in the
perusal of his English and German newspapers,
had greeted them as they came
down one after the other with some little
jest about the late hours they kept ; had
talked over last night's concert, and congratulated
Felix on his rendering of a
certain song of Schumann's, which was
a great favourite with the old gentleman ;
and now he rose to make his usual excursion
into town, to hear the news of the
business in which he no longer took an
active part  to call at his club and see the
latest telegrams, and Incidentally to collect
a little gossip and furnish himself with an
appetite for lunch. He said a friendly
'' Auf wiedersehen " to them and took his
departure, leaving them alone.

There was silence for a time between
them, as they proceeded with their meal.
Elisabeth smiled to herself every now and
then. Felix was rather grave, and drank
his tea and consumed his fish in a businesslike
manner. At last Elisabeth, with a
certain look of effort, said 

'' And do you actually mean, my good
friend, that you are going away without
a word or a sign to the little one ? "

Felix looked up, and the expression that
crossed his face showed that this topic had
been discussed between them before, and
that he was now reminded of it  not altogether
pleasantly.

I told you so, Lisa, didn't I ? "

*' Yes ; but I didn't believe you. It was
just after your arrival  just when you were
hurrying off to rehearsal, and I supposed
you had not time to add the qualifying
clause."

VOL. n. 32

There is no qualifying clause. I meant
what I said."

I still cannot believe it. I cannot
imagine you doing anything so  so uncomfortable
for me."

He smiled slightly. '' I know you have
a great confidence in your own power of
getting just what you wish for, and that
the confidence is, as a rule, well-founded.
But if you wish for this, why, disappointment
awaits you. And I don't see exactly
why it should make you uncomfortable."

*' It makes me vicariously uncomfortable.
I suffer for Ines."

'' Quite unnecessary. Ines knows nothing
about it."

You imagine that they don't read the
newspapers at Madame Prenat's ? " she
said, with withering emphasis. '' I can
tell you they do, even though they may be
printed by steam, and full of lies."

- Well ? "

"And do you suppose Ines ever takes
one up without looking through it to see
if your name figures in it ? "

** If she ever was guilty of such folly, let
us hope that a year's experience has cured
her of it."

He spoke rather coldly, and looked as
if he would prefer to change the subject
Elisabeth, however, had had this topic on
her mind for some time. She had chosen
this method of opening it out, as it were,
and she intended to q-q on with it at all
risks. But, intimately though she knew
Felix Arkwright, his character and disposition,
privileged friend and confidante
though she was, she still felt a little
trepidation as she went on 

A year's experience of what, Felix ? "

Of the fact that she can get on very
well without me, and that there are other

people ill the world quite as interesting
as I am  which was what I intended her
to learn."

Well, you know, I call that rather
assuming things to have happened, while
really knowing nothing about it. How do
you know that the year's experience may
not have had just the opposite effect ? "

Not likely," was the brief reply.

'nothing more likely," retorted his
friend decidedly. *' Remember, I have
seen her since you have. I called, as I
told you, the last time I was in town, and
had her to dine with me at my hotel. I saw
nothing to show that she was In the least
changed. Felix, I'm going to say something
to you which I know you will resent
at least, I'm afraid so. If you don't like
the thing, you must look to the motive
that prompts It. You are going away fora
long time, and to such an immense

distance, that I should hate to have anything
not quite clear and plain between us.
Do you see ? "

He nodded, but did not look altogether
pleased as he threw one arm over the back
of his chair, and, instead of looking at her,
fixed his eyes upon the fork with which
his other hand trifled. Elisabeth leaned
forward, her elbows on the table, her hands
clasped, and looked earnestly at him.

You know," said she, '' that I have
never asked you why you took that particular
course with Ines a year ago. I felt
you did not care to talk about it ; I felt it
would be presumptuous in me to approach
it ; but, Felix, you know, as well as I know
your looks have told me many a time
that you understood me when I looked at
you  you know, I repeat, that that girl
is in love with you."

She had spoken, and her steady look

did not reveal the nervousness she felt.
For a single instant the hand of Felix,
which was balancing the fork on one of its
fingers, shook ; the fork fell upon the
table. He pushed it away from him, looked
directly at Elisabeth, and replied gravely 

I know that a child of seventeen, with
a lively fancy and an exaggerated sense
of gratitude for what I have done for her,
may have unconsciously allowed herself to
think a little too much about me. Since
you speak about it, I can  to you  not
to any one else. She had not the cunning
or the experience to hide it. She was
over-grateful, poor little thing ! It is nota
weakness one often meets with. Such
things will happen, I suppose, now and
then ; but if they are taken in hand in time,
no harm comes of them ; and I took it in
hand in time."

Mrs. Reichardt sat listening to this discourse

with an indescribable expression on
her face. It was not laughter ; it was not
sadness ; it was not mockery ; perhaps it
contained a little of all three of these
things.

Since you say you will speak of it tome,"
she said gently  " which I appreciate
in you as a mark of confidence  tell me
exactly how you took it in hand, and what
effects you expect to follow from your
course of action."

*' I took it in hand by committing her
into Madame Prenat's charge, and explaining
to that lady that I wished Ines to
come out,' in a certain sense ; and I decided
not to see her again for a couple of
years. Two years between seventeen and
nineteen will make as much difference in
her as twenty, or at any rate, ten, would,
when people get to our age, Lisa."

Still both under forty, my good sir ;

not at all too old to have susceptibilities
and emotions of many kinds. However,
I now understand you better ; you admit,
though reluctantly, the fact that I urge.
I am not much surprised at that. And
you did not wish to make a fuss about it,
to hurt her feelings, or to lay bare her
secret to any one else  in that you were
right, and I like you for doing it. Whether
what you have done will have the effect
you anticipate, that's another thing altogether.
Par exe77iple, why not have let
her come to visit me now and then.'"

Because I thought it best for the
separation to be complete  that's all."

'' Hem ! One can't always cure a bad
habit by one single effort of will. And
you told Madame to take her out a good
deal ? Why, I wonder ? "

Because I know the society Madame
frequents is beyond all suspicion  it is

very good society ; you know that  neither
the fast and fashionable, nor the outrageously
rich and vulgar. I felt that If
she met any one under Madame's wing,
and fell In love with him, and he with her,
it would be certain to be all right."

You take my breath away. Talk of
women being such trusting creatures ! But
I see your motives ; they are excellent.
And suppose she goes out and meets
people, and does not fall in love with ans
one else ? "

He shrugged his shoulders.

*' If so, it cannot be helped. She could
have no better home than with Madame
Prenat ; with her she shall remain. She
will learn that I am her friend and well-wisher
always. And It is not as if she
had no brains. Ines will never die of
en7itu, especially in that house."

But," Elisabeth persisted, gently but

firmly, '' suppose she not only does not fall
in love with any one else, but does continue
to be in love with you ? "

I wish you would not speak in that
way  making a child's passing fancy into
a serious thing. She will not do anything
of the kind."

She shook her head, with the same look
of mingled sweetness and bitterness of
feelings A man  the kindest-hearted of
men  even her friend Felix, dealing single-handed
with the mystery of a girl's heart,
it filled Elisabeth with wonder, with pity,
and with a little mournful amusement also.

Ah, well, let a man get into his head
the idea of a system," said she, '* and when
facts go against that system, so much the
worse for the facts ! Stay, Felix," she
added, seeing a look approaching to anger
in his face, " don't mind that. I think it is
awfully good of you to have endured this

catechism from me ; but one thing more.
You may say what you please, but it is
possible that things might turn out in that
way ; she might only have grown fonder
in absence, you know. Hers is not a fickle
nature ; and at nineteen Ines Grey will be
as beautiful a girl as you or any one else
could wish to see."

'well?"

*' You say you mean to see her again at
the end of the time. That may be wise in
you, or it may not. But do you mean that,
supposing that were the case which I have
imagined possible, you would not marry
her yourself ? "

'' No, I should not marry her myself"

Do you mean that you would let some
false notion about difference In age, or
taking advantage of her, or something
quixotic of that kind, step In and spoil
your happiness ? "

Felix was silent for a time, looking
down at the table, with an expression
Elisabeth could not understand. She
watched him in some anxiety. The idea
of the possibility of this marriage had
haunted her, as a kind of pleasant dream.
It had delighted her ; she had pondered
over it many a time, though she had never
before spoken of it. She wondered now
at her own audacity in going so far ; but
the matter  especially the matter of the
happiness or unhappiness of Ines Grey 
was one which lay very near to her heart.
What did that look of Felix mean ? What
would he say ? She was prepared to fight
to the death any scruples he might entertain,
of the kind she had mentioned. At
last he looked at her.

*' Not In the least, my dear Lisa. I
am not such a paragon as you seem to
think me. I feel quite sure that If I wanted

to marry her, I should perceive dozens of
reasons for doing so, and should be vastly
hurt and offended at her ingratitude if she
did not see her way to complying with my
'wish ; but -my dear woman, don't look at
me in that horror-struck, reproachful way
I don't want to marry her. I never
shall want to marry her. I'm not in love
with her, if you will kindly try to believe
me. She is a sweet child ; it would be impossible
to find a sweeter child anywhere.
Many a time I have congratulated myself
that she was my sweet child, and from the
very nature of the case a child she will
always remain to me." (Elisabeth, with
almost superhuman self-control, refrained
from retorting, " For all that, she failed to
see nothing but a father in you." She had
her ends to gain and was silent.) '' I could
spend weeks with her, and thoroughly
enjoy her company and her cleverness and

her dainty ways, and be glad she Is so
pretty  I like beautiful things  but my
pulse would never beat faster for the tenth
of a minute all the time, nor should I ever
feel hotter or colder for her proximity or
her absence. When I parted from her 
you will think me a brute, but it Is the
plain and simple truth  it was because I
saw that, in her enthusiasm, she ran a
danger of being somewhat unhappy about
me, and as I had not the least intention of
being unhappy about her, it seemed to mein

the highest degree unkind to "

'' Put danger in her way. Well, I have
courted this disclosure. I have brought It
on myself, and it serves me right. I don't
know whether it Is what I might have
expected, or not, but I could cry  yes, I
could cry, with disappointment ! "

'' Fm very sorry, but what can I do ? "
Nothing. You are always so horribly

sane and clear and certain in all your views
and intentions. I could scold you  oh,
how I could scold you ! So like a man, to
been a romance and never finish it. As
for Ines, my heart bleeds to think of her."
She rested her chin on her hands, and
tears actually did rise to her eyes, and
burnt there, though they did not overflow.
She had spoken rather too plainly, in her
chagrin.

Your heart bleeds for her ? I am sure
I don't knovv why," he said in a tone of
extreme vexation. '' Surely there would
have been more cause for it to bleed if I
had played fast and loose with the child.
I haven't. I have acted as straitly by her

as if

It's difficult to find a parallel case," she
said, laughing vexedly.

'' You can surely give me credit " he

began.

** Oh yes, yes ; you have behaved like
a man and a gentleman, Felix." (Was
there a touch of raillery in the words, " like
a man " ?) " Under the circumstances, I
suppose there was nothing else for you todo.
And I am sure you have been very
patient, and you must be left to carry out
your own experiment to the end. But one
hates to be put in the wrong, and have
one's hopes dashed to the ground. Thank
Heaven, Ines herself suspects none of
this."

Here her footman came into the room
with an envelope on a waiter, and went to
Felix.

A telegram for you, sir. Will there be
any answer ? "

He tore it open, and read it. There was
a moment's pause. Then 

Well, of all the nuisances that could
have happened  no, no answer. Read

that, Lisa' and he gave it to her as the
man left the room.

It was before the days of " sixpenny
wires," and the message ran 

'* Mrs. Lauriston, Birmingham, to Mr.
Arkwright, Queen Street, Irkford. My
son very ill typhoid. Must give up
journey. Great regret."

Why, that is your companion that was
to be, isn't it  young Lauriston ? "

Of course it is. My go-between,
factotum, dine deinde, everything. Percival
is no good in anything but the barest business
matters. And a good fellow too. I
counted on him absolutely. By Jove, but
I'm sorry for this ! They are very poor,
you know, and the lad is a hard-working
lad. His salary was evidently a great
object to him, and I meant to have given
him many a hint about his voice, and how
to begin his career. I am sorry."

VOL. II. 7,2,

*' I shall Inquire into It," said Elisabeth,
promptly. 'why must they go and be
living in Birmingham ? I wonder how-soon
he would be fit to go out to you, if
you could get a substitute In the meantime
? "

Oh, I suppose I could go on, somehow,
without any one ; but it is such a
frightful bore having either to see people 
people who sometimes make such asses of
themselves  or to say you won't see them.
And he really understood about It, and he
liked me, too ; and I am sure I liked him.
It was worth anything to see his delight at
the prospect of seeing the world under my
auspices. Well, typhoid is typhoid. The
unlucky young beggar, to go and get it
just now !"

There was a perturbed silence ; Felix
flicking the telegram impatiently to and
fro, Elisabeth thinking profoundly.

*' Must he be a gentleman b} birth and
education ? " she asked.

Felix laughed. 'well, I should prefer
it, I must say. I know what you are
thinking of' he added, looking severely at
her rather conscious face. '' One of your
beloved Reedley's /r//i-. I dare say he
could find half a dozen who would be
willing to go, but I want help, not
hindrance."

You had better take Ines  such a chilli,
and yet she would be a help," said Elisabeth,
sweetly and maliciously. " Or give
up the undertaking altogether."

"No, I mean to go through with this.
If they think it worth their while over
there to pay to hear me, in their usual
style, I shall be almost at the end of my
road by the time I get back. Besides, I
want to see the Great Republic."

Elisabeth shook her head. It was no

secret to her, though it remained a mystery,
that FeHx Arkwright was not in love with
his profession, though he might be with his
art. She had at her command all those
worldly goods for a portion of which he
was working, and she sometimes wondered
what he would say if she told him she
would like to divide them with him  and
remain free. But the immediate question
was, not his feelings about his profession,
but the means by which to find him a substitute
for the secretary and companion
who had been taken ill in so untimely a
manner.

And at this juncture the footman again
made his appearance.

'' There's a young person, ma'am, who
says you know her, and she is very anxious
to see Mr. Arkwright. I was to say her
name was Ormerod, and her business was
very important."

'* Alice Ormerod ! " cried Elisabeth.
'' She wished to see Mr. Arkwright ?"

'eyes, ma'am. I've taken her into the
library."

What does this mean ? Felix,
come ! '*

They went out of the room together.

CHAPTER IX.

ELISABETH DISAPPROVES.

Alice was indeed waiting in the library,
but still standing up, where the footman
had left her. Her face, though calm in
expression, was very pale, and there was
something in her eyes and on her mouth
telling of mental suffering  severe suffering.
Elisabeth saw it at once, and at once said
to herself, " The young man has been
behaving badly ; but what can she want
with Felix ? " Felix saw it too ; but what
he felt was that this young woman was
not at all like the young woman he remembered
seeing at Moor Isles, and that, either
from ill health or some other cause, her

beauty was much diminished. That was
his first feeling.

'malice Ormerod, I'm glad to see you,"
said Elisabeth, heartily, as she shook her
hand. " What brings you here, though ? "
And then, seeing a sudden pained look
cross the other's face, she quickly added,
*' But never mind. I'm glad you have
come. My servant said you asked for Mr.
Arkwright. Here he is ! "

*' I made so bold," Alice answered, *Ina
trembling voice, as her eyes timidly and
for a moment rested on Felix's face. She
had fancied that she remembered him so
vividly and exactly, that he was the most
approachable person she had ever known,
and that it would be so easy to speak to
him. But now, as she stood face to face
with him, under these different circumstances,
and saw how gravely he looked
at her, she suddenly felt him very formidable

and Imposing ; and as the nature of
her errand flashed through her mind, and
the recollection that these two persons,
kindly, well-meaning, were perfectly in
ignorance of what brought her there, they
seemed to swim before her eyes, and fora
moment her courage failed. But only
for a moment. Straight and outspoken
she had been born ; so she would live, so
she would die. And after one moment,
during which she met the steady gaze of
Felix with an equally steady one of her
own, and felt as if a wave of a cold sea
had passed over her, she was herself again.
'* It was in the newspaper that I saw
Mr. Arkwright was here," she said  " at
least, that he was In Irkford; and I thought
he might be staying with you. It's the
greatest chance that I ever found It out.
It's the greatest wonder that things should

o o

have happened just as they have, and I

hope neither he nor you will think me
very impudent if I asked to speak to him
alone  if he has the time, that is. It's a
matter of great importance to me, at any
rate  and to some others," she added, with
a sigh.

Elisabeth had been holding her hand
and looking at her all this time, and she
now turned to Felix and looked at him.

'' You can spare the time, Felix, can't
you ? " she asked ; and he saw that she
very much wished him to say yes, despite
the smile in her eyes which she could not
quite repress. There was something so
artless in Alice's simplicity, that if they
had not both realized by now that she
was in great distress, the smile would have
appeared on their faces, as well as in their
eyes.

I wonder what in the world she can
have come for ? " Felix speculated. " But

I suppose I shall hear what she has to say.
It's rather a miscellaneous programme,
this, just before setting off."

And aloud he said, " Yes, certainly, I
can give Miss Ormerod a little time, if her
business is urgent."

'' I'll make it as short as I can," said
Alice, humbly.

Then I will leave you," said Elisabeth,
turnings away.

Look here, Lisa," he said hurriedly,
'' don't utilise the opportunity to send for
half a dozen candidates for Harry Laurus
place ; do you understand ? "

"/ understand," she replied, in a tone
more of sorrow than of anger, as she
shook her head ; and saying to Alice, " I
shall see you again before you go," she left
them.

Won't you sit down ? " said Felix,
pushing forward a chair, and looking attentively

at the girl. Her cheeks were a
little flushed now, and he saw her strong
and simple beauty assert itself once more.
And her distress, so bravely battled with,
moved him.

"Thank you," said she, "but I don't
know whether I can sit still to tell you
what has happened."

Nevertheless, she did sit down, and
clasped her hands, from which she had
taken the gloves  the unwelcome restraint
necessitated by a journey to Irkford.

You remember, sir, I expect, the day
that you and the two ladies came over to
Moor Isles, and had dinner and tea with
Mr. Brian ? "

Perfectly," he said. He, too, had
seated himself beside a table, on which
he rested his elbow as he faced her.

I thought you wouldn't have forgotten,
for all you have so many engagements

and so many friends. Eh, sir, but poor
Mr. Brian did think a deal of you ! He
was never tired of talking about you."

'' Did ! " echoed Felix, started. '' You
speak as if he were dead."

''Oh no, no! He's alive, thank God

And yet," she added quickly, raising her
clasped hands together, and then letting
them fall again into her lap, '' I don't know
why I should say, * thank God ! ' I think
it would have hurt ene less to see him in his
grave than brought so low as he is now."

No tears came into her eyes as she
looked at him, but an expression infinitely
more sad than tears overspread her whole
face.

I suppose I am to do something or
other for that lad," Felix said within himself.
'' There's some great mess taken
place, I can see. Then aloud, but encouragingly


*' I am very sorry If any misfortune has
happened to him. What is it ? "

You are very kind," said she, almost
breaking down at his tone of interest.
'' Perhaps you'll remember, too, that before
you left that evening, a young man and
his sister came in, and sat down to table,
and had tea with you ? "

*' Yes, I remember that too, very well."

Well, sir, all Mr. Brian's friends were
sorry he had so much to do with that
family. They are not a good family.
There's bad blood in them. They're not
true, and they are not honest, and their
friends are like themselves. Oh, never
believe that it was his nature, of himself,
to have gone with such people. It was
because he had fallen in love with her.
If she had been true and honest it would
have been all right, whatever the others
might have been ; but she was like the

rest of them  false. They do say you
could never depend on a Barraclough,
man or woman, keeping their word. Even
if it went against their own interests, sometimes,
it seemed as if they had to be false.
She was false. She played him up and
down, and led him on, and wouldn't say
yes or no, and let him keep coming to
the house, and made him believe she was
going to take him some time or other, and
all the time she was promised to another
man  one that had a power over her ; and
this man and her brother just set to work,
and took advantage of his love for her
to make him play cards and billiards, and
things I don't understand  nor he either,
poor lad ! They wanted him out of the
way, and to ruin him was the only plan
that came into their minds. Well, he
wasn't strong enough to lead that kind of
a life, and he got quite mad quite, quite

mad. Mr. Brian hasn't been In his right
mind this many a week."

She paused, and choked down some
kind of a sob, while FeHx sat and Hstened,
and wondered what it was all leading to.
Somehow it did not sound as if it were
going to be an appeal for money ; but
what, then, could it be ? She went on
by-and-by.

*' It had to come to an end at last, that
kind of thing. He went up there last
night, and as he doesn't generally come in
till nearly morning, Mrs. Stott  that's his
old servant  was surprised when she heard
him open the door before twelve o'clock.
She had gone to bed, but she heard him
come in, and go Into one of the sitting-rooms
; and then she heard him groan, and
then all was quiet. She was frightened 
too frightened to go down ; but she never
shut her eyes to sleep, you may be certain;

and she got up very early, between four
and five In the morning, and went downstairs,
and, though she was very frightened,
she went into the parlour, and there she
found that he had never gone to bed, but
was thrown down In an armchair, just as
he'd come in ; and he was sleeping, and
groaning in his sleep, and Ferran, his dog,
had his nose on his knee, and was looking
up into his face most pitifully. She didn't
dare to waken him up, but she stepped
across, and told me and my father ; and we
went to his house  we were sure there
was something very wrong. And they
said that I'd better go in and awaken him.
Mrs. Stott thought he might be angry
with her, if he saw her first thing. So I
went Into the room ; but he had just opened
his eyes, and when he looked at me, I do
think, for half a minute, he didn't know
me. And then he says, ' Why, Alice,

what time o' day is it ? Have I been
asleep ? ' And then he saw the lamp, and
that it wasn't daylight, and he sat up, and
looked about him, and at me, and shuddered.
I just said Mrs. Stott had been
afraid he was ill, and had sent for me, and
I said didn't he think he'd better go to
bed, and try to get a little sleep. He
only laughed at that, and then  oh, sir, I
thought my heart would ha' broken  it all
came back to him, and he said suddenly,
Alice, I'm going away from here, and I
must tell you what's happened, that someone
may know what has become of me.'
And then he told me how they had played,
and played, and betted so high, he said ;
I'm sure I don't know what he means, but
at last he got desperate, hoping to beat this
man  Law, his name is  and he staked the
very house that he lives in  Moor Isles, sir,
that he loves better than anything in this

VOL. II. 34

world, except the woman that's brought
him to this  and he lost It. That sobered
him, I know. But as If that wasn't enough,
he went to say good-bye to her, and then
this other man, who has no more pity thana
tiger, and who wanted to get him out of
the way for once and all, turns round
upon her, and forced her to confess that
she had ever so long been engaged to be
his wife. Ay, It seems impossible that
such wickedness can be ; but what I tell
you is every word true." (And, indeed,
Felix did not doubt a syllable of her story.)
"He told me all this, and then he said
death was much better than life for such
a fool as he had been, and he was going
away  he didn't know where  over the
moors, or anywhere, and perhaps he might
die If he stayed away long enough."

Again she paused.

And you ? " asked Felix. '' Why did

he choose you to tell all this to  about his
love for this other girl, and all the rest of
it?"

For a moment, but only for a moment,
her face flushed painfully. She was past
any coyness of concealment.

'' I hope, because he knew he could
trust me in anything, and ask anything
from me," she said. " I'm his oldest friend.
We were playfellows together when we
were little children ; and we were like"
brother and sister when we were boy and
girl ; and since we've grown up I've hoped
for nothing so much as his happiness.
And he has always been true to me  as
his friend. That is why he told me."

*' And you have come to tell it all to me
why ? " he asked, not unkindly, but
almost reverentially.

Yes, sir ; I came to you, not because
I've any claim upon you at all, but because

I trusted you when I first saw you, and
knew that you had a kind heart, and were
true. When Mr. Brian had got a Httle
quieter, but before I'd called the others in,
he said to me again, ' Eh, Alice, where can
I go to be furthest away from all this ? If
I could put fifty thousand miles between
me and Thornton, I think I could even
wish to live again.' Well, a sudden
thought came into my mind. I said to
him that he must bear up, and have
patience for a day, and I thought perhaps
I could manage for him to go a long way
off, if it wasn't fifty thousand miles. I'd
read in the paper the day before all about
what you were going to do. Mr. Brian
thought all the world of you, sir, and I've
just come to tell you all about it, and ask
if you'd let him go with you."

Felix stared at her for a moment.

Let him go with me ! " he at last ejaculated,

and then, silent again from excess of
astonishment, once more sat and gazed at
her. He had had a good many experiences
of different kinds during his career, but not
one quite Hke this, and he began to wonder
whether he had not heard wrongly.

Alice, however, soon set him right on
that point.

*eyes, let him go with you," she repeated
resolutely, as she looked at him earnestly.
"He must go away, or else he'll either
kill himself, or something bad will happen
between him and those two men that have
fleeced him so. He can't go alone  at
least, it would be a very bad thing for him
to go alone. He can't hire any one to go
with him  he has played away too much
of his money for that. But he won't be
dependent on your charity, sir, either.
He has told me all that has happened, and
there is something left  just because he

wasn't able to get at it In a minute ; and
we'll see to that. We want to save him."
(She spoke as If It were all settled and
arranged. Felix could not guess how
suffocatingly her heart was beating.) '' He'd
be proud to go anywhere with you, and
I'm sure he might be able to do something
or other to help you. At first he may bea
little sad and low, but he'll remember
what is due to you. And you mustn't
think," she added, with almost painful
earnestness, "that because he has been
gambling with these men, and has nearly
ruined himself, that he's fond of low company.
No ; he never was. He never did
like drinking or anything bad, till he fell
in love with a bad woman. Such a woman's
place ought to be amongst other bad
women," Alice went on, with remorseless
outspokenness. " and not in what people
think is a respectable house, where everything

seems as if it was what it ought to
be. That's what has ruined him  not love
of bad company. He'll do nothing to
disgrace you ; I can answer for that. And
now you know everything, and it's in your
power and in your hands to save him, body
and soul, if you'll undertake to do it."

To save him, body and soul." As she
ceased speaking, these words echoed in
Felix's ears. A noble task, no doubt, he
thought, hardly able to repress a smile, as
the humour of the situation, of whose very
existence Alice was unconscious in her
earnestness, presented itself to his mind.
The only thing was, he was not a missionary,
given over to the saving of reckless,
passionate young men's souls aid
bodies ; and he felt very little inclination to
turn missionary in this particular case.
The idea of setting off on his tour accompanied
by the blighted young man brooding

over his blasted hopes and perfidious
love, was by no means a pleasant one to
him. He would feel him a responsibility,
and a frightful bore  this last was what
Felix most keenly felt  a bore  such a
bore as had perhaps rarely fallen to the lot
of mortal man. He did not suppose that
Brian, accustomed to be his own master,
lead his own life, consult himself alone as
to his actions, would be of the slightest
use to him In the capacity of useful companion.
No ; if he undertook the thing
it would have to be without any hope of
reward, save the proverbial one rendered
by virtue to Itself If he undertook it, it
would be  his eyes again searched Alice's
face, and he felt It very keenly  It would
be because he was too soft-hearted to send
this young woman away with, so to speak,
her confidence betrayed, her purpose, which
was pure and unselfish, frustrated, and her

hopes disappointed. With what an effort
she must have strung herself up to seek
this interview and ask this favour ! She
had put on an undaunted front, but FeHx
knew that it must have cost her a
tremendous struggle to go through with it.
In hope, in trust, in the fervour of love and
self-sacrifice she had come ; her errand was
to send away the man she loved  to let
him go now, away from her  not selfishly
to keep him near her, and make use of the
revulsion which the other woman's deceit
might have produced in his mind. What
would she feel if she had to return with all
her passionate endeavour fruitless, so much
eager effort useless ? What a dreariness
there would be  what a hopelessness over
those two houses this night ! As this
aspect of the case came strongly into his
mind, there came also the feeling, undefined,
but convincing, that he would not

send her away empty-handed and aching-hearted.
She was a brave creature, he
said to himself, a simple, true-hearted
woman. In Felix's own character there
was, perhaps, something of the same
generous, uncomplicated simplicity of
feeling and action ; but as a man of the
world he felt that it would not do to make
unreserved, unconditional promises.

'' I don't know about saving him," said
he. " People generally have to save themselves,
you know. But, supposing I were
to consent, do you think he would come ? "
'* Yes ; I can answer for it  he would."
I will tell you  it is a singular coincidence
 that I have this morning had a
message to say that the gentleman who
was going out with me to help me in
various ways, is ill with fever, and has to
give up the journey. Now, I cannot take
a useless person with me. I want some

assistance from my companion ; he would
have to write letters, see people, and make
himself useful in various ways. Do you
suppose that your friend, in his present
condition of mind, and accustomed to consult
no one but himself as to what he will
or will not do, would be able or willing to
submit to orders, and perhaps give up his
own wishes for my convenience -for that
is what it comes to when one person agrees
to make himself useful to another."

I'll put him on his honour' said Alice
promptly ; '' and I'm certain the bare idea
of getting away, and having something
quite different to do and to think about
from what he's ever had before, will bethe
saving of him. Besides, he does think
a deal of you, as I told you. It's been
clouded over lately, but it will come out
again when he's free from what has been
making him so mad."

Felix bowed gravely, thinking within
himself that to be held in such high
esteem was not always the most convenient
thing in the world. But he had swiftly
made up his mind to do what this young
woman wanted him to do, and he was not
going to spoil the concession by making it
ungraciously.

Well," he said slowly, but not unkindly,
'' you know him  or, at any rate, you ought
to know him and his character well. You
speak as if you understood him, and I am
sure you have his welfare at heart. I liked
the lad very much, I must say, when I met
him, and I am truly sorry he has fallen into
such bad hands. I think I will do as you
wish, Miss Ormerod  with this reservation,"
he added, raising his hand quickly, as she
was about to speak  '' that I do not by any
means pledge myself to take charge of
him or even to keep him in my immediate

party all the time I am away, or under all
circumstances. You will excuse me if I
speak plainly, and remind you that I am
going abroad In a public capacity, not a
private one. I am bound to fulfil my
engagements to the public, whatever maybe
the state of my private affairs; and should
I find at any time that young Holgate
caused me trouble, or In any way Interfered
with my arrangements, I should feel myself
perfectly at liberty to tell him that we must
part company, and that he must rely upon
himself and his own resources. You
understand me, I dare say ? "

*' Yes, Indeed, sir, I do ; and he will
understand too. Oh, sir, there's things
that one person can do for another that no
thanks can pay for  nothing but our lives
can show we are grateful ; and you are
doing such a thing for me now, and for
him, and for all of us, to-day. And "

She made a sudden pause. The colour
rushed over her face, the tears to her eyes.
She looked at him in affright, and half
whispered, " Eh, I seem as if I only just
knew what I'd done. What must you have
thought of me ? "

For the first time during the interview
she saw him, not as a strong abstract
power, able to get her what she wanted,
but as a man, a very human man  a man
with whom she had been pleading desperately
for the man whom she loved ; and
it suddenly rushed over her mind he had
understood it all, as plainly as if she had
told it to him in so many words. She felt
as if she would choke, and suddenly stood
silent.

'' What must I have thought of you ? "
he repeated, smiling. " Nothing but good,
you may be sure. Whatever becomes of
Brian Holgate, he will not have wanted fora

good woman's influence. Do not be
troubled about that."

But," she interrupted  she was standing
up now, and stammered out  " you
wont tell him all I said, sir. He might
think I'd been too bold on his behalf,
and "

'* I shall tell him nothing that you would
not wish him to hear. What will you say
to him ? It is as well that I should
know."

*' Just that I came to see you, and that
your secretary couldn't go with you, and I
asked if you'd try him, and that you consented."


"Very well, that will do. And now,
to consider the business part of the matter,
I suppose you know that the Batavia sails
tomorrow at two in the afternoon. I had
already taken a berth for the gentleman
whom I mentioned to you, so it will do

very well for him. I will see to the transaction
 do you understand ? "

Yes, sir, I understand."

*' Very good. Then let him be at
Liverpool, and at the Cunard wharf, not
later than half-past twelve tomorrow.
And I think that is all. I need not keep '
you any longer. Would you like to see
Mrs. Relchardt again before you go ? "

'' No, not to-day ; I'll see her another
time. I couldn't talk to any one till I've
got this all settled," she said ; and Felix
almost laughed to himself at the relief he
felt at hearing this  he did not want Elisabeth
to hear what he had done till Alice
Ormerod had left the house ; and, with a
guilty kind of feeling, he reconnoitred the
country before letting Alice out. The hall
was empty, the house was quiet ; he was
ashamed of himself for not having the
courage to ring the bell and have her

shown out in orthodox fashion ; but it was
much easier, and, above all, much quicker,
to walk across the hall with her, and himself
to open the door for her. He answered
her silent look of gratitude and tremulous
emotion  half joy, half sorrow  with a
smile, and a kindly pressure of the hand.
She walked quickly away, and then he,
feeling very much like a schoolboy who
has been on a clandestine errand to the
larder, returned to the sitting-rooms, and
wandered from one to another of them, in
search of his greatest friend.

He found her at last in her own sanctum,
craved an audience, and was admitted.
She was at her writing-table, but turned
round as he came in.

Well, do you want me to go down to
her, or do you wish first to explain what
her business was with you ? " she asked
cheerfully.

VOL. II. 35

She has gone. Insulting though you
may feel it to be to yourself, the truth is,
she said she did not wish to see anyone
else  this time  after we had settled
matters."

** What was her trouble then ? Something
that you could settle without my
assistance, it seems. Oh, and Felix," she
added briskly, *' I have thought of a
secretary for you  an excellent one. Yes,
one of Mr. Reedley's young men. You
are always so nasty about Mr. Reedley's
young men, or I should have sent him
word straight away to come here at once."

It is a mercy you did not. It would
have caused a complication, for I have just
engaged a  well, I don't know whether
secretary is just the right word  a companion,
we'll say. Not one of Mr.
Reedley's young men, but one recommended
by Miss Alice Ormerod."

*' What on earth do you mean ? "

** Our friend Brian Holgate is to go outwith
me."

Brian Holgate ! What nonsense are
you talking, Felix ? "

'' It is not nonsense at all." He briefly
related the story of his interview with
Alice, and what she had asked, and what
he had consented to do, and added, " It
will be a bore, that's the worst of it  a
frightful bore ; otherwise, it will answer 
well enough, I dare say."

If he had hoped to avert the expression
of her opinion by speaking in this off-hand
way, he failed signally. She was silent
for a few moments, looking at him. Then,
slowly 

Do you mean to tell me, sir, that this
is serious  this tale I have heard, and not
some wild and far-fetched romance ? "

'' Perfectly serious. Why not ? "

** Because It is simply and utterly mad,
and you are usually a sane person  usually
I don't say always."

Mad ? What nonsense ! " said the
much-tried man, who was leaning with his
back against the mantelpiece ; and he
moved his foot uneasily to and fro.

*' It is mad, and it is nonsense. Don't
really tell me you are committed to this
thing, and can't get out of it."

'* I have no wish to get out of it," he
assured her, but not with very great heartiness.
Then, with more decision, '' But if
I had, it is impossible. I have passed my
word to her, and there is no going back
from that."

She shrugged her shoulders, lifted her
hands from her lap, and let them fall again
with a mixture of annoyance and resignation
in her expression.

It is too bad  it is beyond everything,"
she said.

*' I don't understand you. You used to
profess the greatest interest in this very
young man."

Perhaps I did. I don't say that I am
not interested in him even now. It's a
very sad tale, I'm sure," said EHsabeth,
with a sympathetic sigh. *' But that is an
entirely different thing  that is not the
same as for you, Felix Arkwright, to set
off on this journey, on which you will be
criticised, and interviewed, and talked,
about, and have everything belonging to
you dragged into the greatest publicity,
with a man who has just gambled away
nearly all his estate, out of weak love fora
bad girl, and who is now in the first
despair and depression of the catastrophe.
It is you who will have to look after him,
instead of having in him a useful person
to take all worry and trouble off your
shoulders."

I am not so sure it will be so bad as
that," he said. '' It will be a bore, I don't
deny. But if I don't mind "

'' If you don't mind, I do," she told him,
her colour rising, and her eyes filling with
tears of vexation. " You are indifferent
about appearances very often, I know, and
so am I  about myself, but not where you
come in, Felix. You can't make yourself
into a mere private person travelling for
pleasure, and you ought to have some
regard for your encourage, for our sakes,
if not for your own. I wanted all belonging
to you to be perfect, and beyond all
criticism, while you are over there. And
now  you have let this creature be hooked
on to you in this style. There's something
so utterly incongruous about it. I could
cry with vexation."

When Elisabeth got so far as to calla
person suffering from misfortune a

"creature," she must, Indeed, have been
deeply perturbed.

Behave me, Lisa, I shall be equal to
the emergency. I knew you would be
vexed ; and I am sorry, but I am not quite
unversed in the ways of the world, after
all. Your friend Alice put It very justly,
when she said it might be the saving of
him, body and soul. I gave her to understand
that if I found him troublesome, or
interfering In any way with my cor
sentence, I should feel at liberty to send
him away at once."

'' It is done," was all that Elisabeth
would say, " and It cannot be undone.
But I hate it. I am certain no good will
come of it, and if it were not your last day
here I would quarrel with you."

"Don't do that," he said humbly, but
smiling at the same time, in a way that increased
her exasperation, so that she cried 

"Well, after this, never preach to me
about acting on impulse, and saddling
myself with all kinds of unprofitable
burdens  never, sir. Nothing that I ever
did could approach the recklessness of
this."

** Then you admit that you have done
reckless things ? "

I admit nothing, except that you have
called some of my actions reckless, while
I know certainly that this of yours is sheer
insanity. I have a good case against you
now," she added triumphantly. '' Ines was
always a sore subject with you. By the
use of your superior masculine overbearing
strength, you bullied me out of alluding
to that business in any but the most
respectful way. But this  eleven years
later  so much older, and no wiser  no
more prudent, no more attached to your
own interests  you shall not bully me out

of this. I'll punish you with It many a
time when you are so odious about my
Mr. Reedley. So there ! I dare say you
will have saved the young man from destruction.
I shall say no more about it,
but I utterly disapprove of it''

With which she held out her hand. He
came forward, stooped over it, carried it to
his lips. *' This kindly hand," said he,
has ever treated me more gently and
generously than I deserved. And I don't
think its owner means to strike me very
hard, even now."

'* Its owner is a weak-minded, silly
woman, where her friends come in. And
you have struck me hard enough this
morning  and twice over. First about
Ines, and now this. Well, well ! "

CHAPTER X.

"bat AVI A," FOR NEW YORK.

Elisabeth's party that evening was a
brilliant success. It was not a very large
gathering  indeed, she said she hoped it
resembled the entertainments spoken of
by one of Miss Austen's heroines as
small, but very elegant." There was
some music, but not too much ; some
allusions, not to the coming parting, but
to the prospective triumphs of the singer
who was going away from them. Felix
sang one or two songs of a rigorously
cheerful description, and Elisabeth performed
a perfect tour de foice of brilliant
execution (execution and nothing else, as

she herself said) on her violin ; a fantasia,
dazzling, and quite devoid of sentiment or
of anything but  execution.

There were some very pretty women
present, and there was a very fine supper
to be eaten, and very good champagne to
be drunk. And just before the last-named
event  the eating of the supper-took
place, a young girl who was present
implored Elisabeth to get Felix '' to sing
Auld lang syne or ' Home, sweet Home,'
or something like that, dear Mrs. Reichardt.
They say he can sing ballad music as
beautifully as he does everything else."

Elisabeth tapped her arm reprovingly
with her fan.

'' What an idea, child ! As if such things
as this had any connection with ' Home,
sweet Home ! ' He is not going to
Home, sweet Home but to America, to
New York ; the thing I have just been

playing, exactly foreshadows in music what
his career over there will be. You should
never try to mix tears with laughter ;
it spoils the unity of things. And you
must see that British ballad music and
Frenchified New Yorkists don't go
together."

The young lady blushed deeply, and was
fain to withdraw and hide her diminished
head, feeling as if she had done a very
stupid thing. It was not Elisabeth's way
to mortify the smallest or most insignificant
of her fellow-creatures in this manner, but
as a matter of fact, she was in a nervous
agony lest any ill-advised person should
actually prefer such a request to Felix, and
lest he should comply with it. It would,
she felt, have been quite too much for her.
But, luckily, no such catastrophe occurred.
The lively evening was kept up till a late
hour, so that when her last guest was

gone, she felt quite justified in pretending
to be overcome with sleep and weariness ;
in apparently stifling a yawn, and with a
kiss to her father-in-law, and a fleeting
touch of her fingers on those of her friend,
hastening away to her room.

They were all late the next morning,
and there was not opportunity for much
talk before it was time to go to the train
which was to take them to Liverpool.

Don't you think it will tire you very
much, Lisa ? " he asked her casually, when
she said it was high time to go and put on
her bonnet.

** No, I don't. I think it would be
much more tiring to sit here thinking
about it until der Vater returned to tell
me all about it. And I don't care "  with
sublime inconsistency  ** if it should be
ever so tiring; I am going to see the
last of you, Felix, at Liverpool, and mind

you don't forget to telegraph from New
York."

He said no more. She went and put
on her bonnet, according to her word ; her
carriage came round, and they drove down
to the Irkford station, where they found
several friends awaiting them who went
with them to Liverpool, and there, of
course, more were assembled. Elisabeth
felt her composure returning ; there was
safety in numbers. It goes without saying
that a friendship like this of Elisabeth and
Felix had not been carried on without
many a speculation on the part of those
who witnessed it, as to whether it would
not, should not, must not, end in a
marriage ; and they, being neither children
nor simpletons, were perfectly aware of
these speculations. Had such a thought
existed, on either side, the alliance must
quickly have come to an end ; but no such

did exist, and their friendship remained 
a joy and a consolation to both. At this
moment the thought which chiefly agitated
Elisabeth's mind, was not one connected
with herself or her own privileges, but a
totally different one. She, Felix, and her
father-in-law were alone in the cab which
conveyed them from the Liverpool station
to the landing-stage. Here was her opportunity.
She was just about to speak,
when Felix observed 

** I wonder if poor Holgate will be there
all right ? Rather a sell for me, if he
should not turn up after all."

A shade came over her face, and a smile
at the same time. '' Oh, dear, I had
quite forgotten him ; and you must go
and bring him back to me just now, of
all times ! Of course he will be there.
That proverb about a bad shilling is the
truest one that was ever made."

He laughed.

I must certainly keep him out of your
way, or you will frighten him into going
back."

I wish I could. But a truce to your
Holgates ! Listen, Felix ; I have something
to say to you, and this is the only
chance for me. I shall be writing to Ines
in a day or two, and, of course, I shall
mention having seen you off on this
occasion, and, equally of course, she will
have read all about your departure in the
papers ever so long before. But in
my letter may I not give her your love,
and say that you told me to wish her
good-bye ? "

He was on the point of answering, " Oh
yes, if you like ; " but, happening to look
at her before he spoke, he was struck with
something of eagerness and excitement in
her face and eyes, and his words were

arrested. He paused a moment, then
said 

'' Now, look here, Lisa, my compact
with that child was that absolutely no
communications should pass between us
neither word, nor letter, nor message.
She is prepared to carry out her share in
the bargain like a Spartan. What would
she think of me if I were the first to break
them  the conditions I had myself laid
down ? "

'' She would think it adorable of you,
I've no doubt."

*' You are a very trying person, sometimes
; and for quiet, persistent determination
to have your own way, I don't know
your equal," he said, his colour rising.
*' But, as I should very much object to her
thinking anything I did adorable, I must
beg you not to break the agreement that
we made with each other ; it will be alto-vol.

II. 36

gather without my sanction if you say
anything of the kind to her."

** I don't know how you can be so  so
granite in your obduracy," she said vexedly,
leaning back and looking crossly at him.

" Leave me alone," he answered her.
*' I am convinced that I am doing right,
and that it will all turn out well in the
end ; and, if you will leave it all to me,
you won't be responsible if anything should
go wrong."

" No," said she ; " but I am not happy
about it. It haunts me sometimes."

To this he made no reply, and just at
this moment their cab pulled up with a
jerk. They had arrived at the wharf, and
a porter threw open the door.

'' Batavia,' said Felix, briefly, glad to
change the subject.

' Batavia  this way, sir. The last tender's
waiting, and you haven't too much
time."

And Indeed they had not. They had
scarcely hurried on to the tender, when
the whistle sounded and they were off.
Then Felix bethought himself suddenly
of his promised travelling companion, and
with a start and a muttered exclamation,
he moved a little aside from his friends,
reconnoitring the othe;* groups present.
Elisabeth guessed at once the reason of
his moving away, and her jealous eyes
followed him. He had not far to go
Then Elisabeth saw him accost a young
man who had been standing alone, and
who now made a step forward. They
shook hands. Elisabeth looked, and despite
her vexation, partly real, partly assumed,
over this part of the business, she started
and felt, first astonishment, then pity, as
she began to admit to herself that she
supposed this must be their pleasant host,
Brian Holgate ; but that if she had met

him in the street she would assuredly have
passed him without recognizing him. She
recollected a kindly eyed, smiling lad, with
a fresh colour and a cheerful aspect ; she
saw a still-looking man with a thin face,
very white, and with eyes that seemed
to have sunk far back into their sockets 
mournful, haunting eyes. He looked so
old, quite calm and self-possessed ; but he
reminded her of a man she had once seen
who had just passed the turning-point ina
fearful struggle between life and death,
in what had been nearly a mortal illness.
Brian Holgate's face had just that expression,
she felt  as if the foe had been choked
and flunof aside, but as if another such
victory would be far worse than a defeat.
Perhaps, knowing the circumstances, she
read something more than would have
been apparent to an ignorant onlooker ;
but be that as it may, the feeling described

seized her strongly. A very slight smile
crossed his face as Felix came up to him.
The artist also had felt a shock as he
encountered those changed eyes of Brian's.
It was not in his nature to do things by
halves, and he held out his hand cordially,
saying 

'ewe came so late, that I had not time
to look for you before. I'm glad you have
come, and we will have some talk a little
later, on the steamer, shall we ? "

*' Oh yes," said Brian, quietly. " Pray
do not notice me till you have said goodbye
to your friends. I preferred to come
alone, and I will gladly wait till you are
free."

Felix assented, and was turning away,
when Elisabeth came up. Her vexation
what there was of it  had disappeared ;
it never lasted long in the presence of
grief or misfortune. Felix was surprised

at the pleasure he felt when he saw her
come forward, with the look of kindness
on her face which he knew so well. She
too went up to Brian and held out her
hand.

'you remember me, Mr. Holgate, I
hope ? "

''Oh yes!" Brian hat came off, and
he made a profound bow ; but, like all
his words and his actions, it seemed
mechanical.

Go away, Felix," she said, smiling, to
him ; and, as he turned back to his friends,
she continued, " Since you are going with
him, Mr. Holgate, no matter under what
circumstances, I want to tell you that I
hope you will do what you can to help
him. You will find him so easy to get
on with  so kind and so considerate. Remember
that there are some of us over
here who would break our hearts, more or

less, If anything really bad were to happen
to him. Will you ? "

*eyes, Mrs. Reichardt ; whatever lies In
my power I will do, so long as we are
together."

*' And bring both him and yourself
safely back to us ? "

No doubt he will come safely back to
you. As for me, I shall never return to
England."

''Oh yes, you will!" she said gently.
Perhaps for you as well as for him there
are people whose hearts would break."
(He looked at her a little defiantly.)
"You will come back. We shall see you
again."

Brian was silent. In his mind's ee he
saw the scene of the morning  the cold,
dull, autumn dawn, the hurried preparations
; the last look over the fields and
hills which he had loved so well ; Sarah

Stott's woebegone mien ; his own words
to Alice  " Whatever you do on my behalf,
Alice, will be right to me, and far
more than I deserve "  and her pale but
composed countenance, her unbroken self-possession,
her unfailing presence of mind
up to the very last, when she had laid her
hand upon his shoulder, kissed him gently,
and said, " Good-bye, and God bless you,
Brian, in all your undertakings." And
then the departure. He did not remember
much since that moment of Alice's kiss.
It seemed to him that from that instant all
his past was past  dead and buried, and
that never more would he wish or try to
revisit the scenes in which it had been
acted.

*' I won't talk to you," said Elisabeth,
still more gently. " I only wanted to tell
you that I have never forgotten how kind
you were to us that day, and I shall never

forget you. I shall always expect Mr.
Arkwright to tell me something about you,
when he writes. And I shall not be honor
in going over to Thornton ; I want to see
Alice Ormerod again."

He smiled a little. " She'll be very
glad," said he. " She thinks a deal of you,
and has often said so."

Shaking his hand again, she wished him
health and prosperity, and returned to her
party. They had steamed into the shadow
of the Batavia great black hull. Half an
hour later, the crowd of passengers onboard
the big liner were leaning over the
taffrall, exchanging hand-kisses, waving of
hats and handkerchiefs, and whispered last
words, with tear-dimmed eyes, and in
broken voices with the other crowd on the
deck of the rapidly diminishing tender, as
it relentlessly flew up the river to the town
again. Then it was gone, and, so far as

most of them knew, before any of those
dear hands could again be clasped, or lips
kissed, or voices heard, twice three thousand
miles must be measured, and all the
perils of the deep encountered.

Felix, as he turned away, and looked
seawards, had a little uneasy feeling in his
heart for a moment, no more.

*' I almost wish I had said yes, to Lisa,
when she asked for that message."

CHAPTER I.

WITH AN ENTHUSIAST.

The contrast was a sharp one between
those delightful days at Irkford and at
Lanehead, and those at Madame Prenat's,
which followed my return to her and to
the town. But I congratulated myself
many a time on my decision to come here,
rather than remain there. If for sometime
after Felix's departure I found it
desolate even here, where I had all my
studies and occupations around me, and
work with which to fill up most of the
hours of the day, what would it have been
at Lanehead, where I should have been
supposed to be amusing myself and taking

a holiday, and where I should in reality
have been feeling, every hour, every day,
the absence of what, I had suddenly
discovered, was my most precious thing ?

After all, it was not so long since I had
left these grey squares and monotonous
streets. I had gone away for a certain
specified time, and I had returned before
that time was over. But I had, it seemed
to me, lived through a lifetime, since Felix
and I had driven away to Euston Square
that October afternoon. It was October
still. Only ten days later in the month.
But years had surely fled since then !
Madame, as I said before, did not encourage
sentimentality, and I was grateful
to her that she did not. I had no wish to
mope, to dream, or to officier my feelings
on the subject of what was, to me, the
great event of my life, this separation from
Felix, this time of probation which had

begun, and which stretched long and
painful before me. I went over the whole
interview many times in my own mind, but
could come to no definite conclusion as to
the reason of his sudden action. I could
trust him. I felt that more and more as
the days went on. I was sure he was not
anxious " to get rid of me," as I put it to
myself ; and he had told me emphatically
that I had not been guilty of any fault or
offence. Perhaps, some time, I should
know the reason of all this. I would
endeavour, in the mean time, so to act as
to please him, should he ever inquire into
the matter, and after a time I been to
hear and learn many things of which I
had been ignorant before, and to understand
the mighty power of the two little
words, '' they say."

For I soon found that I was no longer
a mere schoolgirl. The first thing that I

heard after my return was, that the two or
three other girls who had at different times
shared Madame's instructions and cares,
were not coming back any more. It was
some time since there had been any one
but myself with her, and one day, after a
call from one of those young ladies, who
had apparently plunged into a busy social
life at home, I asked Madame if we were
Qfoine to be alone for the future.

"Yes," she told me; "I have decided
it so. When Mr. Arkwright confided tome
his wishes about you, and I resolved
to accede to his request, I "

Won't you tell me what his wishes
were ? " I interrupted eagerly. She smiled.

'' Oh, they were simple and comprehensive
 men don't bother you with a lot
of details. He hoped I would take charge
of you, make you happy, or let you be
happy in your own way, give you plenty

of employment, and take you Into society
to a moderate extent. A woman would
have trusted me, perhaps, quite as much,
really, but she would have had all kinds of
instructions to give about not letting you
become a blue-stocking, or about your
dress, or  oh, fifty things. I saw what he
meant, of course. I consented to do It,
and at the same time I decided not to
receive any more of these young ladies.
As you well know, it is not essential to me
to have them with me  I mean from a
pecuniary point of view. I am not dependent
upon it. It has always been a
work of love with me  this Instruction,
this education  building up, as I trust it
most truly has been and always will be
with me. When I found I might rely
upon having you with me for two years,
you, In whom I was more interested than
in any of the others, and when I found
VOL. n. 37

also that It was not merely to learn lessons
that you were to be placed with me, why,
then I told myself, ' I will give myself that
pleasure. I will have Ines Gray to myself.
I shall feel to her like a mother, and I
hope she will be able to confide in me
often, almost as a daughter, or perhaps
even more easily.' It is not always the
mother to whom we naturally turn with
our sorrows or our joys. And I trust,
my child," she added klndl}, " that If you
ever feel in a difficulty, of any kind whatsoever,
whether It may have been caused
by your own rashness and inexperience,
or by the wrong conduct of others, you
will never fear to speak to me of it. I
do not think you have ever found me
harsh or unsympathetic, and I do not
think you ever will. What I should resent
in you would be not that you had
committed a fault, but that you had not

trusted me enough to speak to me of your
trouble."

*' Dear Madame Prenat," I exclaimed,
'' I hope I shall never disappoint your
kindness to me." And, indeed, I was
profoundly touched, and felt that no
devotion on my part could be too great
in repayment of this kindness.

With Mr. Arkwright," she pursued,
'' one feels on such sure ground. He
says, ' I trust you  I confide in you,' and
you are not annoyed by afterwards finding
that he meant, ' except in this matter, that
matter, or the other matter.' Yes "  she
nodded her head  " I think we shall get
on and be happy together."

At night I mused over the subject. I
had not yet grasped the full bearings of
the situation. Felix, it appeared, had
absolute confidence in Madame Prenat ; I
knew Elisabeth had. He seemed to have

expressed his views to her very fully. It
came into my mind for the first time to
wonder when this negotiation had taken
place  how long had it been In his mind
to take this course ? Had it been decided
before I received that letter from him
about going to Irkford ? I would have
given a good deal to know, but he had
said nothing about it. Madame never
mentioned it, and it seemed to me disloyal
to pry into the matter. It had been
decided thus :  for two years I was to live
with Madame Prenat, and do my best to
attain to her standard of young womanhood,
which was by no means a low or
easy one. At the end of two years I was
to see Felix again. After that  sometimes
I wondered a little, but stifled my wondering.
It would be all right, I did not
doubt.

I was over seventeen ; consequently the

first schoolroom drudgery was past. What
remained before me, the work that Madame
laid out for me, and upon which I eagerly-fastened,
was a kind of modified college
course, carried on at her house, under her
supervision ; partly under her own instructions,
for she was profoundly versed
in some branches of education  in history,
for example, and in some departments of
literature ; partly under the tuition of
different professors. She had a gift which
amounted to genius for rapidly discerning
exactly what capacities, moral, social, and
intellectual, a person possessed ; for putting
her finger with unerring certainty on just
those which it would be worth while to
cultivate, the cultivation of which would be
likely to improve, strengthen, and purify
the character ; and those which, on the
other hand, might be safely left alone, as
not likely to repay tillage, so to speak, by

the production of any flowers of sweetness
and light, larger sympathy, or truer ways
of thinking She was a orreat advocate foro

o

the training of the faculties all round, so
as to enable their owner to make good use
of them in any given circumstances, as
opposed to the admired system of cram on
some one or two points, in order to pass
competitive examinations, which system
finds such favour, glory, and applause in
these latter days. And with this gift of
discernment she possessed also strong and
passionate convictions on such subjects as
worthy objects in life, and a constant
striving after perfection. To her views
on these subjects people sometimes objected
that it would not pay to follow
them, however admirable they might be.
Success in her much-hated competitive
examinations as often as not meant success
in the battle of life which had to follow

after them. Failure In the same, however
well-equipped the individual might be in
the line of education which she advocated,
meant failure to find any place in the
foremost ranks of society, the professions,
or the services  for men ; and girls were
rapidly following in the same direction.
To which her answer always was, in tones
of resignation, that she knew it ; she did
not pretend to stem the torrent single-handed
 not she : it was an impetuous, if
a shallow one. But, fortunately for her,
there still existed thoughtful and intelligent
persons of her way of looking at these
things  and often they were also persons
of means and leisure. Many such persons
had committed their daughters to her
charge at different times, and she trusted
that each one of those girls went forth into
the world with some truer notions as to
real education than that it was a mad

Struggle to know more on a given day, of
a given subject, than was known by the
other feverish competitors for the same
thing. The leaven might work slowly, but
it would work, she knew, and she could
die happy in the conviction that she had,
whenever the least opportunity offered,
introduced it and worked it well into the
characters she had been privileged in any
degree to form.

At such times, when giving us these her
views, Madame's countenance took an
almost rapt expression, the expression of
an enthusiast. Her large, soft, nearsighted
eyes would light and glow, her
abundant white hair  for it was white,
though she was not yet fifty  looked like
a silvery nimbus about her strong, noble
face, and I, listening, felt all the influence
of a powerful, mature enthusiasm upon
my own young and as yet untried ardour

and passionate desire to live the good life,
the true and the beautiful life, at what
cost soever, no matter how often I might
hear outsiders declare that '' they say "
Madame Prenat's views are high-flown
nonsense.

As I have before related, I had not
been with her many weeks after my first
going to her, before she told me that my
dutiful and diligent practice on the piano
was exactly so much force wasted an
time lost. How she also brought to bear
upon me Felix's verdict to the same effect
I have told. I never touched a piano
again, and at the same time I never ceased
to regret my utter incapacity as a musical
performer.

Besides, she very soon caused me to
discard all my arithmetical and mathematical
studies, save the one useful accomplishment
of being able correctly to add.

subtract, multiply, and divide. 'when a
person has plenty of talent for other
things," she said, " and none whatever for
arithmetic, we must let him off the arithmetic,
and let him know that we expect so
much the more from him In other branches
of knowledge." All artistic studies. In the
conventional sense of the word, she also
discouraged. I did not sketch in watercolours,
nor dab oils into the semblance of
feather beds and cabbages, and call them
waterfalls and trees ; I did not perpetrate
fantastic tricks with paints and brushes on
pots and plaques, and afterwards hang
them round the walls and look at them,
all unconscious of their hideousness 
which is the common doom of those who
do paint pots and plaques. I did not
hammer brass with diligence, nor hew
good wood into shapes of fruit and foliage
such as were never seen before or since

the Flood. I worked not in leather, nor
In wax. Floss silks, coloured cottons, and
Berlin wools were strange to my fingers,
though I was not unacquainted with the
useful needle and thread, and could sew a
'' white seam " with neatness and rapidity.

On the other hand, under her stringent
supervision, I did gain a clear idea or two
about the different periods of art ; the
several schools, the main features of
them, and the characteristics of the celebrated
masters who had flourished and
figured in the world's history  from the
builders of the Pyramids downwards. I
did, I believe, get a quick and lively sense
as to what was true and what was false
art. I learnt something about history and
literature ; some main facts concerning
them, which I was not likely to forget.

And as for music,  though I had given
over attempting to play the piano,  we

were by no means without relaxation in
this line. Very thoroughly did I enjoy
the concerts and the few operas to which
we went  never, though, to any in which
Felix was singing. I knew most of the
great tone-poems, and loved them  but
only the great ones. Indeed, in art, as in
everything else, I learnt, under Madame
Prenat's auspices, to feel an absolute
indifference for all that was not of the
very best. I scarcely felt contempt for
the second-rate  it hardly came home tome
at all. I was highly satisfied with
this state of things : it seemed natural and
right to care only for the best  not to
have any feeling at all for what fell below
that. It never occurred to me, and I am
sure it did not to her, that she was making
me into something so fastidious, by this
course of hot-house training (she would not
have called it hot-house training, though ;

she would have said that this was the
education which helped nature into the
right road, and that the other it was which
was forced and exotic) that if, or when,
at any future time, I should have to
encounter things and persons not of the
very first order, come in contact with
them, and have dealings with them, the
awakening and the friction might chance
to be not merely pain but torture. In
the meantime, having swept away all
studies and accomplishments which in her
opinion were not suitable, she pushed on,
all the more eagerly, those which were ;
and I, nothing loth, needed no spurring
on.

As I have already said, I found my
greatest pleasure in the study of the
oriental lansuaoes. These tongues had a
fascination for me, with their strange
characteristics and the wonderful glimpses

they gave Into thoughts and ways of life
which were not as ours. My chief Instructor
In these matters was a certain
learned Professor Wllloughby, a man of
great fame as an orientalist, who was said
to know more Sanskrit than any other
man In the world. Had he and his wife
not been personal friends of Madame
Prenat's, I might have wished and sighed
in vain for his guidance. As It was, they
had dined with us one evening, when
the Professor had been In a singularly
good humour. Madame had casually
mentioned some of my struggles In my
study of Greek, and had roused the
learned man's curiosity so far as to Induce
him to ask me some questions. I was
nervous, but pleased. Before the Willoughby
departed that evening, he had
told me to come to him at an early hour In
the morning, a few days thence, when he

would see what I could do, and  Implied,
though not spoken out  whether I was
worthy of having a little of his precious
time and learning bestowed upon me. I
went at the appointed time, and returned
radiant.

** Madame," I cried, "he will give mean
hour once a week ; every Tuesday,
from nine to ten."

Madame looked at me. Her grave
face broke Into a smile  the smile coulc
not be made to express all her feelings.
She took my hand, stooped forward, and
gave me a kiss.

'' You have a future before you, Ines,"
she said, looking at me with an expression
full of satisfaction ; ''a real future, apart
from the crowd. Only keep your health
and work hard, but not recklessly, and It
lies before you to make a name, and a
name in what Is for women a new field."

*' I feel afraid when you say that," said
I uneasily. 'you think too much of what
I can do, madame."

'' You must not be afraid ; there is no
need to be afraid. You must think only
of what you are doing  the work and not
the goal."

Sometimes I asked her how much work
one could accomplish, how much progress
one could make, in two years.

I wish you would not think of two
years," she always said to me on such
occasions. " Think rather of twenty ;
think of the years Professor Willoughby
has devoted to these studies ; how he has
grown old and grey in them, and has, in
such matters, an authority which no one
would think of disputing ; and yet, when
you ask him what has been done in this
task of exploring the oriental languages,
and of establishing the science of language

itself on a right basis, he smiles with pity
and says, 'Ask, rather, what there is todo,
and I should almost have to tell you
everything.' "

But, Madame Prenat," 1 besought her,
'' I don't want to become old and grey
yet in anything. I think it is a little too
soon ; and I don't think of twenty years 
two are quite enough for me."

I usually said this a little maliciously,
in order to smile at the look of pain and
reproach which always overspread her
countenance when she heard these (to chef)
unworthy sentiments. But our little difference
usually ended in my saying, as I
took her hand,

You will not say that I do not work
now, madame, at any rate ? "

'' No ; you are a good child ; you are
diligent, you are thorough. You love
your work as few girls have done whom

VOL, n. 38

I have known. One must have one's
dream, In youth above all. Yes, I had
mine once  such a grand dream ! Mon
Dieu ! Had it been fulfilled, what a
weary old age I should have had ! But,
my child, the best of all were not to
think of either two years or twenty years,
but of to-day and tomorrow, and of how
to make the most of them  how best to
live them in every way."

And that is what I really do, Madame
Prenat," I assured her. '' I should not be
happy if I did otherwise."

What I said was true. And the day's
work and occupations did really grow
gradually more absorbing and interesting,
till, as week after week went on, and
Felix's name was never even mentioned,
the strangeness of the silence began to
wear off, and I to grow accustomed toit.
But every day I never forgot, when I

had done reading aloud to madame the
summary of the day's news, and perhaps
one or two of the leading articles, to skim
over, for myself alone, other portions of
the journals  advertisements of concerts
and operas, criticisms, short notices of new
compositions ; and seldom did I fall to
find, somewhere or other amongst them,
the name I was looking for. Yes, It
would seem that his life was In Its way
as even and unvaried as our own ; filled
day after day with the same things.
Triumphs even must grow monotonous Intime,
I reflected. Be that as It might, I
learnt from these newspaper paragraphs
that he was still here, still well ; moving
about from place to place, and leading
his life. That satisfied me. And at times
a letter from Elisabeth would give me
some little detail, all the pleasant to
learn because she knew, and I knew, that

she was breaking the spirit, If not the
letter, of our compact, In communicating it.
Such was one phase of my life at
Madame Prenat's.

CHAPTER II.

AT MRS. FARQUHARSON's.

Ines, don't forget that we are engaged
this evening  the Farquharsons, you
know."

*' So we are. Need I really go, Madame
Prenat ? "

'' Yes. Why should you stay at home ? "

It seems to me that we are always
going out."

** By no means. Twice or thrice a
week."

'' One could do so much more if one
stayed at home."

Perhaps, for the time, one could ; and
fall out of touch with all that is going on,

and live with your nose in your books, and
look bewildered when a man or a woman
in society speaks to you. What end do
you purpose to gain by making a hermit of
yourself? "

'' No, you are right, I suppose. And
the places I go to with you are always
interesting."

' Of course. The vie de pensionnat de
demoiselles is all very well for school-girls,
but not for you. Pray remember that you
are a young woman now, in the world, like
other young women ; if your occupations
and aims in life are somewhat different
from theirs, that is no reason why you
need show yourself eccentric and different
from others. That is such nonsense, and
usually such conceit ; so make yourself
ready."

Will my white cashmere do ? "

*' Just as you like. You know what

Mrs. Farquharson's parties are; use your
own judgment. You have plenty of
frocks."

Slowly I went upstairs. Having put my
books away, I got out my white cashmere
gown and began the process of dressing,
and while thus engaged I reflected upon
her words  '' a young woman in the
world, like other young women." What
were other young women like ? I knew
not. I had no friends amongst girls of my
own age. Truth to tell, Elisabeth had
spoiled me for taking much pleasure in girl-friendships
; my whole life and surroundings
had tended to keep me out of such
friendships. They were very nice, very
pretty, these young damsels that I met up
and down, with their smooth faces, and
eyes, demure or bright  gaze forthright
or down-dropped as the case might be 
but always, as it seemed to me, on the

watch. What were they watching for,
these maidens In the pretty fresh addresses,
the Immaculate gloves and shoes ?
What was the meaning of that everlasting
question in their eyes, the look of expectancy
on their young faces ? I never
felt expectant or questioning  never !
Perhaps that was what left me free to
observe others and mark this peculiarity.

 your alms and occupations In life are
somewhat different from theirs." What,
then, were their alms and occupations In
life ? So Interested did I grow In the
working out of this question, that I
gradually became quite still, sitting on an
ottoman at the foot of my bed, and, with
my white solace dropping from my
fingers, I gave my whole mind to the
solution of the problem. At last a light
flashed Into my mind. Was it, could It
be, that they, these girls in society  whatever

that might mean  found, or hoped
or tried to find, husbands there ? Was
that the meaning of It all ? Did that
explain their watchful eyes ? It could not
be true of all, but I was sure that It was
of many. That was their business, and,
If so, our alms and occupations were Indeed
very different  yea, verily ! I smiled
slightly to myself No wonder that I did
not feel drawn to them ; no wonder that
Professor Wllloughby and Madame Prenat
and Elisabeth were to my mind far more
delightful company than the young ladles,
or than the young gentlemen, either, for
that matter. I would ask Madame Prenat
about it. I always asked her questions
about social matters which might puzzle
me. Perhaps she would give some other
solution to the problem than that which
had occurred to me ; and yet I doubted
whether she could, except in regard to some

few unusual cases. I was sure I had hit
upon the right answer to a great part of the
riddle. No, that would never interest me ;
and yet, could things go on thus for ever ?
Even if I had, as I felt with profound
conviction, no interest in the marriage
market, still a time would come when I
should have to face some other kind of life
than this. I should not live for ever with
Madame Prenat, I should not for ever
continue to be the adopted child of Felix
Arkwright, taking the benefits he poured
upon me, as a child might, but as might
only a child. I had no need to think
closely about that till those two fateful
years should have expired. But then I
should have not only to think but to act.
Perhaps my turn would come too  I
might find some one asking me to marry
him, all unexpectedly. Such things had
happened to girls before. Again I shook

my head ; that would make no difference.
I was not o:oino: to be married.

Yet I had no claim upon any one except
my own relations. I shivered a little
when I thought of them, and of the scene
at the Festival at Kirkfence. The fear
which had then entered my heart, and had
chilled and terrified me, had been lest they
should ever think it worth their while to
seek me out, and offer now to do what
they had at first refused to do by me-what
might bluntly be called their duty.
I hoped that day might never come.

These girls whom I met either got their
husbands, I supposed, and went off into
homes of their own, and were no more
heard of; or, if not that, then, as they
became older, they left the market-place and
retired into private life with their parents
or their relations. At any rate they were,
mostly, provided for. I was not. The

'* future " of which Madame Prenat had
spoken, now began to have some meaning
for me. Now I understood why I was
not to think in particular of two years,
but rather of twenty  of the future in
general. It had become suddenly clear.
I had had a happy life, happier, I felt sure,
than the lives of most girls (but I admit
that I reasoned on this matter from very
imperfect data). I did not feel afraid of
the future, but I saw it stretching before
me, full of serious purpose, full of gravity,
full of responsibility, full of work.

*' Are you ready, Ines ? I have been
waiting more than ten minutes. What on
earth has the child been pottering with ? "

I beg your pardon ! " I exclaimed, in
deep confusion. " I will be ready in ten
minutes." And in that space of time we
were being quickly driven to our destination.


I remember that evening well, and, Indeed,
I have good cause to remember it.
It was the beginning of a new phase In my
existence, of a kind to which I had scarcely
ever given even a passing thought. The
party was at the house of a Mrs. ,
whose husband was a journalist
of repute, chief editor of a well-known
London daily newspaper. Mrs. 's
parties were usually worth going
to, more or less, and the people one saw
there were worth meeting ; for this reason,
if for no other, that her company really was
good of its kind  genuine and not imitation.
If one met a learned professor at
her house, he was a learned professor and
not some one who had merely met a great
many learned professors, and listened to
them talking, and thought them very
interesting, but did not know very much
about their subjects himself If you were

introduced there to a politician who had
something to say about Ireland," for instance,
you might rely upon it that he did
know something about Ireland from one
point of view, at any rate, If not from
more. The facts he might tell you would
be facts ; of course there might be many
more facts of another kind of which he
knew, or told you, nothing, but you might
rely upon what you heard from him, as far
as it went. And so It was with them all,
artists, specialists In some department of
science, literature, or research : it was
seldom you met any one really insignificant
in that house. And another pleasing
feature about these entertainments was
that they were rarely, if ever, overcrowded.
We found a rather larger company than
usual there on our arrival. Soon after we
went in, our hostess led a gentleman upto
me and introduced him as Dr. Hermann

Barthelel. I knew his name ; he was
a young German who had already made
great fame as an orlentaHst, and as an
explorer of some of the " burled cities of
the East." We fell into conversation at
once. Professor Wllloughby was a common
friend, and we talked first of him,
and then went on to other topics.

*' I have some photographs  some remarkable
photographs of some of the

tombs at ," he said at last. "With

your leave I go to fetch them from that
other room, and return to you with them.
You would like to see them ? "

'' Oh, very much, thank you," I assured
him, and, springing up with alacrity, he
went towards the small, inner drawing-room.
Madame Prenat was deep in conversation
with some man whom I did not
know, at the other end of the room. I
leaned back in the vis-a-vis in which I was

sitting, and slowly fanned myself, while
I awaited the return of Dr. Barthelel with
the photographs.

Voices behind me presently drew my
attention. A lady and a gentleman spoke
together.

'' You were there too ? " he asked, in a
tone of interest.

Yes, of course. I never miss going to
hear him, when I can possibly manage it
Felix, I mean. It was very fine, I
thought, but then, what a splendid cast
altogether ! "

I became all ears, unscrupulous ears, at
this.

Yes ; but I think It is a pity that he
should begin with that kind of thing, unless
he means to go on with it exclusively.
And his voice really is too magnificent
to be ruined by a course of Wagner
opera," said the gentleman, who spoke

the words 'wagner opera" in no very
loving tones.

''Oh, that is not fair. Music like that
deserves that those who interpret it should
be the best of their kind, and should bring
the best they have to the interpretation."

I hear you are a convinced devotee of
the Master," said he, laughing. " One
might dispute about it for ever. I don't
share your views on the matter, and I
don't want Felix to spoil his voice, even to
give us a finer Count Telramund than anyone
else could."

"Ah, it was that, most certainly. It
may be unwise in him, but I'm glad I've
lived to hear it."

And the Obtrude ? "

Equally fine. Reuter certainly cadi
sing Obtrude like no one else."

She was in a good humour," he said
provokingly, " because she was singing with

VOL. II. 39

Felix. You know, she likes singing with
Felix."

Yes, she does, I assented within myself.
Had my own eyes not seen it ?

They laughed.

'' Does he like singing with her ? " asked
the lady.

'' I should suppose so, unless he is
impervious to the charm of a beautiful
woman with a beautiful voice, who uses
it as only a great artist can. And one
would hardly predicate that of him."

"No, I suppose not. She is a beautiful
woman, without doubt."

'rit is true that he is not over fond
of his profession  the dramatic part of
it, at any rate. He once told me so
himself."

Really ! With all his popularity ? "

Yes, with all his popularity, and all
his genius, too."

'' Don't you think that may be a bit of
affectation ? "

*' Oh no, I'm sure it isn't. He is not
affected. There have been other instances
of the kind, you know. There was Macready,
and there was Fanny Kemble, to
take only two of them. He hates the
stage part of the business. But I don't
think he ever makes any fuss about it."

'still," persisted his companion, "he
may dislike his profession ever so much,
and yet enjoy singing with Madame
Renter."

"Oh yes!" he laughed a little. "I
know nothing at all about that. But I
know she likes singing with him."

Yes. Well, he certainly is wonderful.
He's the only one amongst the singing
men and singing women, who has ever
drawn tears from my eyes since "  she
paused  "since I became a hardened old

woman of the world  you know what I
mean." Her voice took an accent of
weariness.

The conversation altogether hinted at
a background known to both of them 
a blank to me. But I thought, " O
charming woman of the world ! Dear
fashionable stranger ! Are there many
like you ? "

There was a little pause between them.
Then he said again 

Willoughby was telling me of a pupil
of his who was to be here to-niofht  a
young and lovely and learned person, by
whom he sets great store. He says she
has an absolute genius for oriental
languages, and that he takes more interest
in her and expects more from her than
from any of the men who attend his lectures
at the University ; and he believes that if
she has her health and doesn't go and get

married  his words, I assure you, with his
Avise standing by she will leave them all
behind, too."

Shortly before the end of this speech
it began to dawn upon my mind that I
was the pupil in question. My face grew
hot. One very pleasant reflection came
to me  that it was really true, or the
Professor would never have spoken so
of me to this stranger. Some day I
should be able to do something. In
the mean time I fidgeted and felt uneasy,
and began to wish that Dr. Barthelel
would return with those photographs;
which, indeed, he seemed to have been
a long time in finding. Perhaps he had
fallen in with some-one on the way, and
was expounding the mysteries of his
pictures to that some-one, oblivious of my
very existence.

The lady stifled a yawn.

"Ah," said she, with great indifference,
"that isn't much in my Hne. Another of
your 'sweet girl-graduates.' One hears of
so many now, but somehow they never
seem to come to anything. What does
become of them ? Are they the women
who write the books, or paint the pictures,
or turn out great actresses and singers ?
I've often wondered."

Evidently girl-graduates did not interest
her (nor me either, for that matter) so
much as the question whether or not Felix
liked singing with Madame Renter.

*' Oh, well, you put such sweeping
questions. There are hundreds of girl-graduates,
and Willoughby has hundreds
of pupils, of one sort or another. But he
doesn't take that profound interest in them
all, and she isn't at college, either. She's
not going in for cram. She is living with
Madame Prenat ; and, by the way, it's

quite a romantic history "  he started up
*' now I will tell you a tale that ought to
endear me to you for ever. Listen "

It was unbearable. I dared not sit and
listen to any more of it. I rose, intending
to cross the room to Madame Prenat, and
had made two or three steps away from
the two friends, when it seemed that someone
was standing exactly in front of me,
and a voice said to me 

Good evening, cousin Ines. Will
you look at me, and kindly try to recall
me to your recollection ? We have met
before."

Startled, I looked up at the speaker,
who was taller than I, and recognized the
grave, pale face, and dark grey eyes of the
young man called Maurice, who had insisted
upon an introduction to me at the
musical festival, and whom I had been
glad to forget, along with his companions,

as much as possible. He looked at me
and held out his hand.

"Will you not shake hands with me .
I have seen Madame Prenat, and she sent
me here to find you."

END OF Vois. II.

Printed 15Y WILLIAM Clowns ANP SONS, LlMITliD,

LONDON AND Eccles. (.'., C. <3" ,

STRAND, LONDON,

JND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AMD RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR Subscribers OBTAINING Their Books FROM  Country BOOKSTALL

6 Months. IS Months.

For ONE Volume at a time 0 12 1 1

(Novel* in mere than One Volume Are Hot availAbU/tr this class 0/ Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes  17 6 Ill 6

(Novel in more than T-mo ylumts are not availabUftr this class subscription.)

For THREE Volumes  1 3 2 2

For FOUR .   1 8 2 10

For SIX .,  1 15 8 3

For TWELVE   3 6 5



A LOVE STORY.

JESSIE FOTHERGILL,

author ok
"the first violin," "kith and kin," etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

IPufalisljcvs in (IrtJinarg to vix fmajrstg Hee ufcn*

1888.

{.All ) high ts re so vcd. )

F8Z94-

V. 3

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

PART W. continued)

C11.\PTFR

'AGE

III. What we talked of . . 3

IV. "We should not allow rr" . 27
V. Diplomatic Relations . . 46

VI. Gathering Clouds . . 65

VII. The Holidays and afterwards . 83

VIII. I srt:AK TO Professor Willoughby 92

IX. A Correspondence . . iii

PART V.

I. Ines writes . . . 151

II. Coming to an Understanding . 17O

III. Elisabeth's Mission . . 207

IV. At Thornton . . . 230

CIlAl'TEK PAGE

V. Lucy . . . 249

VI. "Then Good-night, Alas!" . 264

VII. Ines writes . . . 282

VIII. From Moor Isles . . 315

continued.)

VOL. III. 40

CHAPTER III.

WHAT WE TALKED OF.

I WAS by no means overjoyed at this-encounter.
Rather would I have met, thus
suddenly, either my grandfather himself,
or my other cousin, Maud, the young man's
sister. The old man, I was sure, hated
the sight of me, and the young girl was
absolutely indifferent as to whether she
ever saw me or heard of me again.
Neither of them, I was sure, would have
made any effort to break the ice, if I had
been reserved or distant with them. This

was a different case altogether. Dimly I
felt that Maurice was as pleased to have
met me as I was displeased to have met
him. Dimly also, and in a vague and
formless way, I felt that if I made myself
unpleasant to him, that would only be an
incentive to him to persevere in his determination
to become acquainted with me.
I stood and looked at him, without saying
a word.

I think you must remember as much
as that  that we have met before," he
said, holding his ground unembarrassed,
in spite of my stare and my silence.

Oh yes, I have not forgotten you," I
admitted ; and he looked pleased, which
vexed me, and I was almost sorry I had
made the admission, though I must either
have done so or maintained silence. I
tried to rob my reply of any graciousness
it might have had, by adding, ** It

was SO splendid, that musical festival, and
so delightful. I remember every incident
connected with it'*

With pleasure ? " he asked.

'' By no means altogether with pleasure,"
I replied emphatically, recollecting all at
once several very painful episodes belonging
to that time. He evidently took my
words to refer to himself and our meeting ;
he looked very grave, and bowed a little
stiffly. 

'' You certainly did not look as if you
found It all so very delightful when I saw
you there," he observed.

I did not care to pursue this subject.
I introduced another.

'' I did not know you visited here," I said.

*' I don't  at least, I have never been
here before. I came with Frankland, a
friend of mine, who brought me. He said
he often came here."

Oh yes, I have seen Mr. Frankland
here. He does those lovely water-colour
drawings of reeds and rivers."

The same," said Maurice, smiling.
At that moment Dr. Barthelel suddenly
made his appearance again, with a smile
on his face, and some pictures in his hand.
Whether he saw something unusual in my
expression, some change since he had left
me, I know not  it is very possible that
he did. His eyes rested on me, then on
Maurice for a moment; then, with a bow 

Pardon, mein Frdtdein, I see you are
engaged."

'' No," I began, but not very energetically.
My heart was full of wrath against
him for not having returned five minutes
sooner. And yet, as I knew full well, had
he done so, it would only have put off this
interview for a time ; it would not have
prevented it.

My *' no " was so low that he did not
hear it, but turned away and went to show
his photographs to some one else. Maurice,
without any appearance of haste or discomfiture,
went on 

Frankland told me he had met you
here  that was one reason why I came,
though I was hoping to see you soon, in
any case."

Indeed ! " I said haughtily. I could
hear the disagreeable inflection in my own
voice, but it did not disturb him.

I am coming to call upon you soon,
if you will be so good as to say that I may."

You must ask Madame Prenat. I do
not receive any visitors independently of
her."

I have seen her, and spoken to her,
and she was good enough to say I might
come."

If he had not spoken with such calm,

convinced assurance that all was right, if
there had been a doubt or hesitation in his
manner, I might have submitted, and said
no more. But something in his tone
compelled me to oppose him.

And Madame Prenat," I said, and then
felt that I had begun a difficult statement,
she knows better than I do who my 
who Mr. Arkwright "

I was surprised to see the effect of my
words upon this cool and self-possessed
young man. He winced suddenly, as if
struck on a sore point. His pale face
flushed ; the smile which had been hovering
about it disappeared, a look of pride and
displeasure replaced it.

'* I know Mr. Arkwright," he said coldly.
Do you suppose I don't understand all
about that ? Surely you must remember
that he gave me his card that day, at the
Festival. I called upon him at his club,

and had lunch with him  I didn't want
to," he added, looking vexed at the very
recollection of it, "but under the circumstances
there was nothing else to be
done."

** You perhaps did not think his company-good
enough for you," I said deliberately,
and then, curiosity getting the better of
displeasure, I went on  " How long is it
since you saw him ? Tell me about it."

Oh, two or three weeks ago." 

*' And he said "

'' He said he had not the slightest
objection to my calling upon you and
becoming further acquainted with you,
provided "

"Provided?"

That my grandfather knew all about
it, and approved of it."

And does he ? "

He does not  yet. I shall tell him 

write to him, that is, tomorrow morning,
and say that I met you here, and what
Mr. Arkwright and Madame Prenat have
said, and what I intend to do."

*' And pray, what will he say ? " I asked,
leaning back in the sofa on which I was
seated. He was still standing, looking
down upon me, and we were practically
alone. I spoke coldly, though I felt anything
but cool. It was so obvious (I
thought) that Mr. Grey would not approve.
In that idea there was a prospect of relief.
If Mr. Grey disapproved, perhaps Maurice
would not call upon me.

He  oh, well, I do my own way pretty
much," said Maurice, calmly. "He was
very stern to his sons, but he is very
indulgent to his grandchildren. They say
it's a way that grandfathers often have."

Still you have not told me what he is
likely to say," I observed ; '' but from your

manner I gather that he will say something
very disagreeable."

''No, I don't think he will," said
Maurice, carelessly ; " but if he did, I
should not mind it in the least."

But perhaps I should," I said quietly,
though my heart was beating madly.

He looked at me quickly. The spirit
moved me to go on, and say all that was
in my mind, wise or foolish, dignified or
the reverse. It burnt me, and I spoke ix
out. And let it be understood that though
I spoke in my own name, it was not of my
own rights or deserts that I was thinking.

"It seems to me," I said, "that you
think you have nothing to do but say you
are going to call upon me, and that I shall
be delighted to receive you, no matter
what there may be behind. I almost
wonder," I went on, with extreme bitterness,
*' that you condescended to consult

Mr. Arkwrlght or to ask his permission.
He is kindness itself  he would never do
anything to hurt any one's feelings ; but if
you suppose that / will allow such a thing,
knowing  you cannot deny it  that Mr.
Grey has as great an objection as ever to
his low relations, you are mistaken."

'cousin Ines ! " His nonchalant attitude
changed in a moment ; he bent earnestly
forward, and said in low, eager tones, to
which I was forced to listen, though I
hated it, and which impressed me whether
I would or no, " For heaven's sake, don't
talk in that way. That is a very great
mistake you are making, you don't know
how great a mistake. Listen ; I must tell
you. Excuse me seating myself beside
you, but I don't want any one else to hear.
If you knew or had the least idea of what
passed between my grandfather and me
after we had met you that day at Kirk-fence,

you would understand. He is the
proudest man in England, I believe, especially
on all personal points, and questions
of honour, and the conduct of a gentleman.
He had never told us about you  he had
buried it away, and trusted, I suppose, to
our never meeting. He had to explain it
all to me that day ; and to do it must have
cost him absolute agony. I hate to think
of it; and yet I shall never forget it. He
told me everything. He said that a month
after he had let you go, in his enmity to
his son's wife, he repented it bitterly ; it
had been the false step of his life. If he
had had a wife to help him out with it, he
would have got you back again. But he
was too proud and too miserable."

''If you call that pride " I began.

"It's what people call pride, though it is
self-love mostly. That is how he is made.
He can't help himself. He said you

would haunt him. I said you ought to be
with us ; and he said, * Yes, but it's too
late now No, he will be glad that I am
to see you. It isn't that that will make
him angry," Maurice continued, wrinkling
his brow and passing his hand over his
hair. -

No. What then ? " I asked, in a low
voice, feeling that I knew well what the
answer would be, and feeling at the same
time a force of passionate anger, of fierce,
increasing indignation and scorn rising
quite uncontrollably within me ; which
feeling at the moment rather exhilarated
me, but afterwards, when I looked back
upon it, and realized the capacity for evil
emotion which I had suddenly discovered
within myself, terrified me. '' What then ? "
I repeated.

'the same feeling that made him say
to me then, ' Maurice, you will be the head

of our house when I am gone. This is
the wrong I've done you. Can you ever
forgive me for it, for losing my head, and
delivering over your cousin  who ought to
have been the same to me as your sister 
into the absolute power and control of a
man who is in no wise related to us, on
whom we have no claim, letting her eat
the bread and depend on the bounty of a
professional singer ? ' "

I bent my head, so that he did not see*
my face, and with the same terrible
feelings of passionate, vindictive anger
still raging within me, I let him go on,
and I heard him, and understood him,
though all the time I was saying to myself,
in a little inner voice, ** Ah, Monsieur
Felix, my good, my kind Monsieur Felix,
do not be angry that I let him babble on
in this way ; wait till my turn comes to
speak."

It was a fearful mistake to make,"
Maurice went on, in an awestruck kind
of voice, " to let Mr. Arkwright, however
good his intentions may have been,
establish a claim over you, which we
cannot dispute if he opposed it, however
unfitting we may feel it that you
should be in such a position with regard
to him."

He paused, shaking his head, and
looked towards the ground.

Was it ? That will do, sir. You have
said enough, and more than enough, to
make me more thankful than ever that I
am his dependent, and not yours and your
grandfather's."

I felt my face going white. I saw the
sudden startled look on his face, and I
went on 

Unfitting that I should be in such a
position with regard to him  why unfitting

? Is it unfitting that one should be
bound by ties of gratitude to a person who
was kind and generous and self-forgetful,
when every one else was the reverse ? A
professional singer"  I continued  "all I
can see about that is, that a professional
singer is better than some people who are
not professional singers. What do you
think I am made of, that you should say
such things to me ? Do you expect me to
agree with you ? Why should I ? What
are you to me, and what is he not to me ?
I have not the slightest, not the faintest
interest in any of your family, as relations,
and I know nothing of you in any other
capacity. I don't care what you think. I
don't care how many mistakes your grandfather
may have made. You are all
nothing to me. I would rather not know
any of you, or have anything to do with
you. But I believe what you say, when

VOL. III. 41

7

you tell me of your meeting with him. I
believe it, because that other time he
thought proper to introduce me to you.
He has given you permission to come and
see me. You say he approved of it, and
wished it. I told you he would never hurt
any one's feelings."

'' In that you do not resemble him,"
said my cousin. In a low voice ; but I was
far too excited to attend to him.

'' For that reason I will receive you, and
for no other  simply because he wishes it,
and because whatever he does wish is law
to me. So you may come and see me, if
you still desire it, after this, since he said so.
But I know he wouldn't ask me to know
people I hated, and if ever I heard you
speak his name again In that tone, I should
hate you and would never speak to you
any more. Do you understand ? Why
should I want to speak to you ? Tell me

that. Why should I want to have anything
to do with you ? "

I looked at him, breathless. Though
Maurice was young, he was a good many
years older than I. He could command
his feelings, to gain his own purposes.
He returned my look, and said 

Before I answer that question, let me
tell you something. The first time I saw
you, I thought you had the sweetest face
and the gentlest expression I had ever
beheld. This evening when I caught sight
of you, I still thought the same, but I saw
also that you looked proud and reserved.
But now, cousin Ines, do you know, I do
not think anger and an angry expression
suit you. I should hardly know you for
the same person whom I saw leaning on
Mr. Arkwright's arm at Kirkfence. And
another thing, I do not think you mind at
all what you say, to hurt the feelings of

Others. I do not think you try in the
least to enter into the position of others.
If you will kindly try to think, for one
moment, of the sort of life in which such
people as my sister Maud and myself are
brought up, with regard to everything outside
their own immediate circle of intimates
and equals, and will then recollect that we
had grown up almost without knowing of
your existence : that suddenly, we are confronted
by you ; you are led up to us 
you remember under what circumstances 
I refrain from going into details again ; it
comes upon us like a thunderclap. I have
just sufficient presence of mind left to introduce
myself to Mr. Arkwright and ask
for an introduction to you. I go back
with my grandfather to his hotel, and hear
all this story ; my astonished ears can
scarcely take it in. I can scarcely grasp
the idea of such a mistake having been

made. I have thought constantly since of
how I could best show that I could never
have approved of such a thing  that I
should like us to be on good terms. I
have gone so far as to speak very strongly
of my grandfather's weakness and wrongness
in the matter. I have thought of
fifty ways of appealing to you to forgive
him his mistake. Don't you think there
is something dreadfully hard in your way
of visiting his folly upon him, and making*
it an excuse for hating him ? There is
such a thing as forgiveness. You do not
show any sign of it, I must say."

'' I can forgive that, or most other
things, I dare say," I replied indifferently.
I do not care enough about what I may
have lost by not belonging to you, to
trouble myself about that. But what I
will not forgive, or even try to forgive, is
that you should speak of him with contempt.

I  what am I, that such a fuss
should be made about me ? But he is
different. That is what I mean."

*' I meant no contempt. It seems to me
that you do not quite understand. But let
that pass. I hope never to be so unfortunate
as to rouse your anger and enmity
in this way again." (A chilly feeling came
creeping over me ; I began to feel small.
Was this the sole result of madame's teaching
 that I was to be beaten in good
temper and polite behaviour by a barbarian
like my cousin Maurice Grey ?) '' I will
bear in mind all that you have said. I
think I can understand it. I think I can
see where you were wounded. And I beg
your pardon for having spoken of Mr.
Arkwright in that way. It shall not
happen again. But the time will come
when you will be ready to receive me for
my own sake, and not merely on that

account. You say I may call  well, I
shall do so. Apart from yourself, it will
be a pleasure to me to know Madame
Prenat, a lady of whom I have heard much,
and for whose ideas I have great admiration.
My grandfather and my sister are down
in the country. They come up to town
only once a year ; so they need not offend
you. I am conceited enough to believe
that in time I may succeed in causing you
to think not quite so ill of our family." *

You can do what you like," I replied,
still darkly. '' I have only told you what
I thought'"

And that is always justifiable, under
any circumstances, is it not ? " he said
amiably. " Have you read ' The Autocrat
of the Breakfast Table ' ? "

' Yes."

In that book there is a fine passage
about telling disagreeable truths to people.

But he refers to intimate friends. It is
one of the truest things ever written, and
every one ought to know it by heart.
Many a fine friendship has been wrecked
on that rock  the irrepressible love of
saying 'what I thought,' of one of the
parties."

I sighed profoundly. He seemed tome
to be a very extraordinary and not
altogether satisfactory young man ; and I
wondered which of us during this controversy
had said the more plainly what
he or she thought.

At that moment Madame Pr6nat came
up.

"Ah, Mr. Grey, you have found you;
cousin ! Have you arranged anything
about coming to see her ? "

Only in a general way," he said gravely,
and as it seemed to me, ironically.

We must go now, Ines, my child. You

hav a busy day before you tomorrow.
Only in a general way ' Is not very satisfactory,
is it ? Therefore, I will be particular
instead of general, and say, will you
dine with us tomorrow at eight ? We
shall be alone, and it will give me pleasure
to see you."

'* I shall be only too delighted," he
replied, with a grateful smile and a profound
bow.

*' That is decided, then. We shall expect
you," she said briskly.

I made no remark, as Maurice handed
us to our carriage. But I wondered at
Madame Prenat. We drove home in
silence. She did not ask my opinion as
to what she had done, and I did not care
to speak of what had passed between my
cousin and myself. Indeed, the recollection
of it all was not wholly satisfactory to my
self-esteem. Had I, in attempting to defend

my adored Monsieur Felix, merely showed
myself a scold and an uncharitable person ?
Something very like that had been implied
In Maurice's words. I was not satisfied
with anything. I thought he looked ready
to come whenever he was invited ; and I
was glad, very glad that my time was so
filled up as not to leave much leisure for
the entertaining of idle young gentlemen
sin such a licht did I choose to regard
him. As a matter of fact, I did not know
whether he was idle or not  why he lived
in London, whether he was going in for
any profession  in short, I knew nothing
of him and, with childish prejudice, wished
I had never seen him or any one belonging
to him.



CHAPTER IV.

"VVE SHOULD NOT ALLOW TT."

Maurice came to dine with us ; and soon
one part of my speculation was fulfilled.
He very seldom failed to accept any Invitation
which Madame Prenat might
choose to extend to him. And she chose
to do so pretty often. He became a
regular guest at the house, and under the
influence and questions of Madame, milder
and more genial than mine, he related tous
all his affairs. I soon found that my
first contemptuous ideas as to his idleness
was quite unfounded. He was studying,
and studying hard, for the bar. He said
he had not the slightest desire for the

position of a country gentleman, merely
as a country gentleman, though it might
be an excellent and a pleasant thing to
have that position in addition to something
else. The life would be too dull for him.
He felt within him powers for something
far more attractive and, to his mind, higher,
and he meant to make his mark in the
legal world. Sometimes he looked tired
and fagged when he came, and, on such
occasions, Madame Prenat received him
with motherly kindness, which evidently
gratified him extremely.

Your house is my earthly paradise,"
he would tell her. '' Such an oasis of calm
and peace, in the midst of the London
desert of vanity and vexation ; and yet not
cut off from anything that is good."

I am glad you find it so. Come often.
I shall be glad to see you."

She did not say *' We shall be glad to

see you " ; and indeed she seemed to look
upon him almost more as her friend than
as mine.

As for me, at first I felt his presence a
disturbance and a bore. I felt obliged to
give up any employment in which I might
be engaged and devote myself to his entertainment,
not with a very good grace, it
is true, but still to do so. I rebelled
against this, and wished more ardently
than ever that we had never met. I do
not know whether it was with more
pleasure than pique  there was certainly
something of each sensation present  that
I by-and-by discovered that it was wholly
unnecessary for me to sacrifice myself thus.
Maurice made very small demand upon
my time and attention. Often, he hardly
seemed to notice me, but would talk the
whole evening to Madame Prenat, without
asking me a question or seeming to expect

me to contribute any remarks to the conversation.
It was perhaps quite natural
that at first I should feel slightly offended
at this change in his demeanour, after his
emphatic protestations at Mrs. Farquhar-son's.
But that soon wore off. It was
no laughing matter to me, the possibility
of any serious claim being made for me
by my relations. To belong to them, in
any way, meant to me misery. To remain
where I was, for the present, to be always
more or less bound up in Felix and in
some way connected with him  let that
connection be never so distant, never sofar
off  this meant happiness to me, and I
was soon glad enough to perceive Maurice's
apparent indifference. If he was annoyed
by my coldness or disgusted by my raw
intolerance, so much the better, I told
myself, and I gradually withdrew myself
even more and more into the background,

leaving him to entertain himself or to be
entertained by Madame Prenat. It is true
that every now and then I saw some slight
sign, caught some look, heard some word,
on his part which aroused my uneasiness
again. I was not altogether tranquil. It
was sometimes borne in upon my mind
that for all his quietness and seeming indifference
it was me whom he came to see,
and not Madame Prenat, and that his
present demeanour might be but a blind. '

But I thought of this as little as possible.
I put it away from me. When I
found him in the drawing-room, I made
no ado about taking up my needlework,
or even, if I were pressed for time or
deeply interested, in continuing my preparations
for the morrow's reading, or
lesson, or lecture.

It was on one of these occasions that I
first began to feel seriously disturbed and

to realize that Maurice did not view me
and my affairs with the indifference I had
hoped for.

'' You will excuse me," I said, going Into
the room, with a book and a note-book in
my hand, '' I have a difficult bit of Parsi
here to unravel. I don't suppose I can
do it myself, but the Professor will be
very much disappointed tomorrow if he
finds that I have not, at any rate, tried to

master it."

'' Pray don't mention it, I will also take
a book," he adjured me politely ; and I
withdrew myself into a corner in which
stood a sofa and a little table. I lighted
a candle, for it was winter  January, and
very dark, cold, and bleak  and I was
soon honestly absorbed in my work. It
was a passage of verse from a Parsi poet ;
not long, but involved and difficult. I had
been told to take It home and (with a

sardonic smile) try if I could make anything
of it. If I could, it would be more
than most of them had succeeded in doing.
I was on fire to make something  something
that should at least approximate to
sense  out of the obstinate, knotty thing.
But it baffled me, time after time. When
the first part produced sense, the second
became nonsense, and vice versa. Puzzled,
vexed, and disappointed, I frowned, heaved
a deep sigh, and looked up, having forgotten
for the moment that I was not
absolutely alone. My eyes encountered
those of Maurice, fixed intently upon me
with an earnest, seeking, far from indifferent
gaze. His book lay half-closed
upon his knee, the long slim fingers of
one hand keeping the place, while his
cheek rested on his other hand. A thrill
of startled, suspicious feeling shot through
me, a sense of resentment at his thus
VOL. ni. 42

observing me. I sat with my eyes fixed
upon him, and his own countenance
changing, he said quickly 

You seem very much puzzled ; I wish
I could help you."

'thank you," I replied coldly. ''No
one but my master can help me with
this."

The learned doctor, do you mean ?
He will help you, and make it straight for
you, and you will say Thank you."

Probably he will put me into the way
of helping myself," I corrected him loftily.
"He is not too lavish with his information.
What is easily gained, he says, is easily
lost."

Well, he is right, I suppose, in a way.
Things that are hard-won are generally
taken pretty good care of I wish I might
ask you something."

I suppose you can ask me something.

or anything," I replied reluctantly, "but
I won't promise to answer it."

No, you are not fond of making-promises
to me. And perhaps you will
consider this question an impertinent one.
I wonder how long you will go on grinding
at this philology, and what you will do
with it all in the end ? "

Sometimes Maurice had a way of asking
disagreeable questions to which I either
did not choose or did not feel able tcT
reply. This was a particularly disagreeable
one. I had once or twice put it to
myself. I knew what I meant to do incertain
contingencies, but I was not prepared
to explain my meaning to Maurice,
or even to Madame Prenat. I tried a ///
quoque.

And I wonder what you will do withall
your legal studies in the end ? " I said.
** You only follow them just for something

to do now. Whatever you may say about
not caring to be nothing but a country
gentleman, when the time comes, you will
find that it is very pleasant, and gives you
plenty to do, and you will forget all this."

** That shows that you do not understand,"
he replied tranquilly. *' Nothing
of the kind will happen. But even if such
were to be the case, my studies would
still have been useful to me. They would
have opened my mind and taught me to
think. A man ought to have some
special study, whether he intends to make
practical use of it or not. Just to discipline
his intellect, to keep his brain
polished and his mind up to the mark,
he ought to have it."

** And a woman's brain and intellect do
not need polishing and keeping up to the
mark. She can get on with smatterings ;
they are good enough for her," I said perversely

; not that I really took much interest
in the 'woman question." Under the
auspices of Elisabeth and of Madame
Prenat, I had begun where some people
leave off on that matter. I said that
because I loved my studies and wanted
to provoke my cousin.

*' It is different," was all he would say.
I was determined he should not feel he
had asked me a question to which I was
unable to reply, so I pursued 

*' You say I don't understand about your
legal studies. I am sure you do not
understand about these studies of mine.
I have a purpose in them. I may need
them some day. I expect I shall need
them. Some day I may earn my bread
by this knowledge that I am now working
to obtain."

He sat up, closed his book, and looked
at me severely.

"It amuses you to make a jest," he
said. '' That is a quite impossible contingency."


*' Nothing is impossible," I replied, turning
over the leaves of my book. " What
was possible and right for my dear mother
to do"  I bowed my head  "is possible
and right for her child, for she never did
wrong. There is no example in the world
that I should be prouder to follow than
hers."

He winced.

Yes, if it were needful ; and no example
could be more honourable. But it never
will be needful."

'' I wonder why not. When I see Mr.
Arkwright again, I intend to speak to him
about it and to tell him that I wish to
work. He will consider that quite natural
and honourable  he is a plebeian, you
know  he works for his bread. That is

another good example, the best I could
have. He will consent to my wish."

** If ever he were so cruel and heartless
as to allow the child he had reared in

luxury, to think of such a thing "

began Maurice.

Remember ! " I cautioned him, with a
feeling of malicious pleasure.

There is another thing which might
happen," Maurice went on deliberately,
and looking at me, '' which is far more
likely to happen, and which, if it did
happen, would really cause you to ' look
about you,' as they say."

'' And that is ? "

'' That is, that Mr. Arkwright might
think proper to get married." (I did not
start. I sat preternaturally still.) " Where
would you be then ? "

*' Where I have always been," I replied
at once and decisively. *' In his care, and

thankful for his goodness. Do you suppose
he would marry any one who would hate
me ? Why should he not get married ?
His marriage would make no difference."

'rit would make this difference, that you
would not wish to make a third party.
Then you might begin to talk of earning
your bread, and then, as in the other case
you have supposed, you would not be
allowed to do anything of the kind. We
should not allow it. You would simply
come straight to your home, the home that
belongs to you, and would find your father
and your sister in my grandfather and my
sister. I wish he would get married," he
pursued incisively, " that things might be
so easily settled. I. hope he will. Surely
he will. It is most extraordinary that he
should not have married before. Will he
not marry that Mrs. Reichardt of whom I
have heard you speak ? "

** If he should, he will marry the only
woman worthy to have him," I replied,
with an outward lofty serenity which
belied my inward agitation. " But he has
not confided his intentions on the subject
to me. And, as I say, that would not make
any difference. It is not because he might
get married that I am thinking of working,
but because I wish to do so, and it would
be good for me, because I have the power
to do it. Perhaps in the end I may become
Professor of Oriental Languages at Girton
or Newnham  who knows ? At any rate,
that is far more probable than that I
should ever go to live at Rooley Park."

Rooley Park was the name of the Greys'
estate in Somersetshire. And I announced
my intention with peculiar pleasure and
satisfaction as I saw the look of anger,
which he could not quite conceal, overspreading
his face.

'You talk so oddly!" I continued.
'' You seem to think I am blind and deaf
and unconscious about certain things. Do
you suppose I imagine for a moment that
I should be welcome at Rooley  to your
sister, for Instance ? "

** Maud is a kind-hearted girl. She
would soon love you dearly."

'' I am not able to love people dearly
on such short notice," I said drily. '' I
require to know them first."

And how are you ever to know them
when you obstinately refuse to approach
or be approached by them ? There is
such a thing as being determined neither
to know nor to like a person."

'' And your grandfather," I continued ;
will you try to make me believe that it
would be a pleasure to him to have In his
house, and introduce to his friends and
neighbours, a grown-up granddaughter

whom he has always repudiated, and who
would always be making him wretched by
allusions to her former life with the low
persons  professional singers and the like
whom he despises, but who are to her
the best and dearest people in the world ? "

"Who said he would enjoy it?" said
Maurice, fiercely. " I never knew anyone
so hard as you are. You seem as if
you could not respect or appreciate a man's
desire to repair, at whatever cost to his
feelings, the wrong he may have done."

This was a view of the case which I was
anxious to keep as much as possible In
the background, so I said 

''If he were really anxious, spontaneously
anxious. But I never hear anything of
his anxiety except through you. There 
don't get so angry. It was you who
began It, and It always will be you  never
me, for I hate it more than any subject In

the world. And now, I suppose, It Is time
to dress for dinner."

As I left the room, Madame Prenatcame
into It, and perhaps Maurice may have
confided to her some of his difficulties.
When I look back upon those days. It
seems to me almost Incredible that the
young man should have endured my hardness,
suspicion, and Impertinence, and still
continued to come, still continued to be
conciliatory, gentle, complaisant. He had
his objects to gain, and was of a resolute
character, It Is true. As for me. It was
not that I felt enmity to him  It was the
terror and the desolation which always
seized me at the bare Idea of having to
leave my present life and begin another
with them that forced from me many a
hard word, many a bitter taunt which It
was against my nature to utter. It was
the instinct of a weak thing confronted

with a strong one ; the weak one, fearing
to be coerced or enslaved, tries to show
teeth and claws, and to make its poor little
natural weapons look like those belonging
to something far more ferocious than itself
as if a domestic cat should suddenly setup
as a tiger, hoping thereby to overcome
the gigantic house-dog which it has in
some way offended.

CHAPTER V.

DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS.

I DO not know whether Maurice, after this
discussion, judged it best to maintain
silence for some time, but many weeks
passed before we had any further talk on
the subject. Indeed, we began to see
rather less of him ; he was studying very
hard for his final examinations before
being called to the bar. He had almost
given up society, except an hour or two
now and then at Madame Prenat's. Of
course, I was better pleased that this
should be so ; and, for my own part, I
too was deeply immersed in studies, and.

as the spring advanced and the season
began, in social engagements. I no longer
made any objection to going with Madame
Prenat to any place to which she might
choose to take me. Now and again I heard
from Lisa. Those were red-letter days.
Often I heard of Felix, of course, singing
here and there, at every great festival or
entertainment ; but I never saw him.
Sometimes in the Park I looked about for
him, but he was never there when we
were. And at last, somehow or other,
eight months had glided away since our
parting, and it was June, early June, with
the world of London in its full tide of
pleasure and gaiety ; with fine weather,
and sunshine and blue skies ; with windows
and balconies full of flowers ; with fashion,
folly, feverish Zest vertreib, going on as
only in London they can.

One morning, soon after we had sat

down to breakfast, Madame Prenat said tome


Ines, are you very busy to-day ? "

*eyes. This is my morning with the
Professor. I am always busy after that.
I like to make as many notes as I can
while it is all fresh in my memory."

Yes, of course. Nevertheless, I must
ask you to be ready to receive some visitors
this afternoon."

Friends of yours, madame ? With
pleasure. I will be ready at whatever
time you wish."

** No, on the contrary, friends  or, at
any rate, visitors  of yours. Your cousin
Maurice is bringing his sister to call upon
you."

I was thunderstruck. All my spirits fled.
Maurice bringing his sister to call upon me!

Madame Prenat ! " I ejaculated
piteously.

Well, Ines ? Why that look of
despair ? "

*' I do not wish to know his sister," I
said, with sudden anger. " Can they
never let me alone ? "

You cannot wish anything about her
until you have met her. He is most
anxious for you to make her acquaintance."

I wonder whether she is so anxious to
make mine," I said doggedly. *' I believe
he makes both his sister and his grandfather
do as /le pleases. And Mr. Arkwright
? " I went on, as a forlorn hope.
What would he say ? "

*' Really, my child, you make the matter
of too much importance," she said, with a
touch of mockery in her tone. '' Do try to
realize that you are not the centre of the
world. And allow me to use the discretion
Mr. Arkwright gave me. I know what I
am doing."

VOL. III.



I must have looked so downcast that
she, relenting, said 

Now, to convince you quite, I will tell
you that I did acquaint Mr. Arkwright
with your cousin's wishes, and I had a line
from him to say that he approved."

*' Oh, you have heard from him ? May
I not see it ? "

Really ! " she began, and then, with a
slight smile, took a letter from a little case
and handed it to me.

Dear Madame Prenat,

The young gentleman's wish
appears to me to be perfectly natural.
Family affection also is a good thing to
encourage. By all means let the interview
take place, and any other that you may
think riofht.

*' Yours truly,

Felix Arkwright."

I laid this missive down, feeling bitterly
mortified. There was no more question
of me, it seemed, or of my wishes on the
subject, than if I had been a dog or a
horse. '' The young gentleman's wish,"
'' family affection." My name was not
mentioned. It had been less painful if I
had not asked to see the letter. Perhaps
Madame Prenat knew that, and had allowed
me to take the consequences of my
curiosity. I handed it back to her.

'every well. At what time are they
coming ? "

Oh, at the usual time for people to
call, I suppose. Some time between four
and six."

I will be ready," I said ; and I left the
room and went upstairs to get ready for
my lesson with Professor Willoughby.
But I was not happy. For the first, the
very first time, I thought of Felix without

feeling happier and gladder for the thought.
For the first time, I experienced not the
abounding sense of joy and gratitude that
I had always known towards him, but the
bitter consciousness that I was utterly
dependent upon him, and that he did not
seem to care what my feelings might be in
this matter, or, indeed, whether I had any
feelings to be considered at all. Could it
possibly be that he wished me, now that I
was grown up and had become acquainted
With my own family, to rejoin them ?
Was that the meaning of the two years'
separation ? Was that the fiat I should
hear at the end of the time ? These
thoughts darted into my mind, and followed
one upon the other with the same effect
that a physical blow might have had. I
felt myself waver, tremble ; I caught hold
of the back of a chair to steady myself,
and stood for a moment holding by it.

When mechanically I went up to the glass
with my hat in my hand, I was startled at
the reflection of my own face. It was
quite white, and my eyes looked large and
alarmed.

It just passed through my mind that as
wee live we learn. Eight months ago I
should have been ready to swear that any
wish soever expressed to me by Felix
Arkwright would have been obeyed by me
readily, joyfully, and without the slightest
hesitation. Now I felt, with that same
uprising of anger and passionate resolution
that I had already experienced once or
twice, that there were two things I would
never do  even for him. I would not
remain one instant under his protection, if
I had the slightest idea that that protection
had ceased to be given as a matter of love,
and had lapsed into one of duty ; and I
would never enter that family of my

father's relations. I could die, or break
my heart, I thought  quite unaware how
very difficult it is to accomplish either of
these things just when one would choose
to do so ; I could beg or starve, but never
pretend to become one of them.

Somewhat tranquillized by these strong
reflections and resolutions, I finished my
preparations, took my books, and found
myself able to give an undivided attention
to my lesson. Then I awaited the 
and unwished-for visit of the
afternoon with calmness, if entirely without
pleasure. I even went out of my way to
make for the occasion a particularly fresh
and dainty toilette. I never cared in what
old clothes Maurice saw me. But Maurice's
sister was quite a different thing. Besides,
with a perverse ingenuity of imagination,
which amazes me now that I recall it, I
fancied that Maurice would be better

pleased to see me shabby than well
dressed. In the former case, he could
think that Felix was stingy. In the latter,
his vexation would be roused by seeing
the elegance of attire which went along
with my dependent condition. So I took
great pains to arrange in a becoming
manner my dove-coloured cashmere gown
and its bands and belt of gold embroidery.
I spent an unusually long time over this
dressing ; in fact, I had never in my lee
taken so much pains to show to the
utmost advantage any gifts of beauty or of
grace with which I had been by nature
endowed. Surveying myself, when all was
complete, I bowed with dignity to my own
somewhat pale and grave reflection in the
glass, and went downstairs.

They came towards five o'clock, and, as
it happened, we had no other visitors that
afternoon ; so, as I grimly told myself, it

was, with the exception of Madame Prenat,
quite a family party.

Maurice, I could see, was somewhat
excited, as he led his sister forward. Yes,
it was the same girl  the same rosy, uninteresting
face, abundant flaxen hair, and
wooden neatness of finish In her stiff,
firmly-sitting costume. It was gray again
this time  handsome and good ; well cut
and well stitched together  neither behind
the fashion nor before it, but proper, trim,
and tidy, like herself.

Ines, this is my sister Maud. She has
come to call upon you."

How do you do }" I said, holding out
my hand.

I am very well, thank you,' she replied,
her face and eyes becoming quite round
in their solemnly negative expression.
Grandpa wished me to call, and so did
Maurice."

I bowed. My tongue utterly refused to
say "It was very kind," or to make the
most trivial concession to conventional
politeness of that kind. I felt as if any
such word would be received as a concession
 an expression of pleasure.

'' I suppose you are staying in town
now ? " I said.

Yes ; but only for a short time. Weare
at the Westminster Palace Hotel.
Grandpa was not well enough to con-e
up for the whole season this year ; and we
both like the country best."

Yes ? I should think it would be
rather dull in the country at this time."

Oh no ! I have a great deal to do. I
see after some of grandpa's business for
him ; and then there are the schools, and
the parish, and  oh, many things."

Here Madame Prenat mercifully came
to the rescue, saying, '' Then, I suppose,

while you are in town you are very busy,
and going out a great deal ? "

'' Oh no, not much. I want to see the
pictures. One must see the pictures, and
do some shopping, and go to the theatre.
There are several theatres that we have to
go to. My brother will take me. Everyone
is talking about two or three of the
plays, and I am sure to be asked about
them when I go home again." (She went
on talking in a set, formal manner, as if
she could not stop.) '' And we have been
to the Academy, but not to the Grosvenor
Gallery yet."

"And were you pleased with the
Academy ? " I asked politely.

I saw that Maurice was fuming. I saw
that the fuming grew more fierce every
time that Maud with such complacency
mentioned the country and her pursuits
in it. This amused me, but I thought I

should like to hear what she had to say
about the Academy.

Oh yes, thank you. I do enjoy seeing
good pictures "  with great emphasis, and,
on Maurice part, fresh fuming  'rand I
have been very fortunate. My drawing-master
at home has been to town, and he
marked in my catalogue all the pictures
that were worth looking at, and told me
what were the good points in them ; so I
looked at just those, and showed thereto
grandpa, and enjoyed it very much. It
saved so much fatigue, and made a single
visit suffice, you know."

Of course, it would save a great deal
of trouble," I said, smiling in spite of
myself.

I caught Maurice's eye fixed upon me
with a reproachful glance.

The conversation aofain seemed about to
die a natural death, when Miss Grey herself

suddenly galvanized It into life again
by turning to me and asking, as if it were
an entirely new topic, 

*' H3.VQ yo2i been to the Academy yet ? "

*' Once or twice."

*rand did you like it?"

I liked a few things ; not many."

'' Oh, did you not like the great picture
of the signing of Magna Charta ? "

'' No," I replied drily.

Maud, don't forget your message," her
brother now interposed desperately.

She turned towards him with a placidly
obstinate expression, and replied, " Oh no,
I shall not forget ; in good time."

Tea was now served, and formed a
merciful break. Maurice handed the
cups round, stood beside me for a few
moments, began to tell me what he had
been doing for a long time, and asked
me what I had been doing. During this

Interval, Madame Prenat devoted herself
to Maud ; and I, watching, soon saw an
entirely different expression cross the girl's
face  an Intelligence lighted it which had
been quite absent before ; the round eyes
softened, the solemn, portentous gravity
melted into a smile. All at once quite a
bright, merry laugh sounded across the
room, and It came from Maud.

Madame Prenat can work miracles," I
thought within myself. " I believe, if a
person were actually made of wood or
stone, she would make her seem like
flesh and blood."

Maud declined a second cup of tea.

I never take more than one," she said.

'* Are you never thirsty for more than
one cup ? " I could not help asking.

*' No, never. I make it a rule never to
take more than one. It is time for us to
go now. My grandfather," she added,

turning to me, with all the old expression
back on her face, so that I thought, '' How
she hates me!"  ''my grandfather bade
me give his kind regards and say he
hoped you Would give us the pleasure of
your company at luncheon tomorrow."

Thank you. I shall be happy to lunch
with you. At what time ? "

Two o'clock, please. Maurice will
come for you, and then you will have no
trouble. Good afternoon " (to Madame
Prenat, with a bow and a slight smile).
'' Till tomorrow, then," she added to me.

I bowed in silence, Maurice held out
his hand and looked at me appealingly. I
said nothing, and he had to follow his sister.

'' Aren't they nice ? " I said bitterly,
when they were quite gone.

And were not you nice, my dear
child?"
** Would you have had me rush Into hero



arms, especially when she behaved like
that to yoic ? " I asked with some excitement.
" As if you were not fit for her to
shake hands with ! "

Madame smiled  the smile which, though
I was inches taller than she was, always
made me feel such a very little girl, so
ignorant, so blundering.

My dear, is it your place to watch
over people's behaviour to me ? Trust me
to take care of myself." 

'she is so wooden, so self-satisfied,
with her parish and her schools ! "

And you  with your contempt for her
parish and her schools and all the little
interests of her life ? "

Was I self-satisfied too ? " I asked
hastily, much annoyed at the idea that
there could be anything in my manner to
be compared with what I so disliked in
that of my cousin.

'* I do not say that. You were repellent.
There, let us hear no more about it ; but
let me particularly beg that you will try to
be a little more amiable tomorrow at your
grandfathers table. I mean it, Ines," she
added very gravely. " You do not show
any superiority by giving yourself airs,
and you are disappointing me."

I was silent. I never could gainsay
Madame Prenat, but on this occasion I
could not see that logical force in her
remarks which I usually discovered, after
a little reflection. Why was I to make
myself so amiable to these people ? I
could not understand it. I was glad to
put it all away from me and go to the
study and bury myself in my books and
feel that here was a world which no one
could deprive me of.

CHAPTER VI.

GATHERING CLOUDS.

Punctually at half-past one on the following
day, Maurice, in a hansom, called
for me. I was quite ready, having
again devoted a whole half hour or
more to making my toilette  a quite unprecedented
circumstance in my careen
He did not even sit down, but put me
into the cab, gave the word to the driver,
and we set off Almost before I had had
time to begin to think how disagreeable
was the entertainment to which I was on
my way, he began suddenly 

Ines, why are you so determined to
hate poor Maud ? "

VOL. III. 44

It was one of his odious leading
questions  questions which occasionally
floored " me, however little I might have
been wIlHng to admit the fact. At first
I made no answer ; then T said, not very
ingenuously, I fear 

I might ask, why is Maud determined
to hate poor me ? "

'' She is not. Her feelings are the very
reverse of that. She knows what I wish,
and she is so kind-hearted that she wishes
the same. She was so nervous yesterday
afternoon that she hardly knew what she
was doing."

'' Oh-heh ! " I cried, in a long-drawn note
of incredulity and indignation. " Nervous !
How can you ? "

She was. I know her better than you
do. And I don't think you were kind.
Of course she has not your brains, nor 
your beauty," he added slowly ; " but she

is a very good sort, is Maud. And when
we came out, she said to me, ' Oh, Maurice,
how I wish tomorrow were over ! ' ''

I was mortified and speechless. This put
the case in such a very different Hight from
any in which I had as yet seen it  making
me the injurer instead of the injured.

What a delightful, amiable character I
must be ! " I said coldly.

'' You can be, when you choose. You
can smile upon that musty old Willoughby,
till the sunshine penetrates through even
his skull of parchment stuffed with dried
roots ; and I have seen him look at you
sometimes as if he had the dawning of an
idea that there are things in the world
called young women, and that sometimes
they are rather pleasant company."

What a refined piece of wit ! "

It is true, whether refined or not. And
you encircle Madame Prenat with loving

attentions, so that she almost feels as If
she had a dear daughter moving about
her. But for tts "

He stopped significantly.

The fact is," said I, slowly but decidedly,
'' that it was a mistake our ever
becoming acquainted ; or, if that could not
be helped, and I suppose it could not, then
the matter ought to have ended with
acquaintance, and gone no further. I
wish you no ill, but good. But I do not
see what part or lot I have in any of your
concerns."

*' That is a fallacy. It just shows what
a strength of revengefulness exists in you.
Years ago, my poor grandfather made a
mistake  a very bad mistake  in the anger
and bitterness of his heart, because his son
disappointed him; and now, when he would
make it up, you simply hate him, and us,
and everything about us."

'' The best way In which he could make
It up would be to let things remain as
they are, and not step In and want to alter
the whole shape of a life over which he
has forfeited the claims he might have had.
How can he make it up ? "

'' He wants you to come and live
with us."

'' And has he asked Mr. Arkwrlght ? "

No ! " said Maurice, with great though
suppressed anger. " How can he ask
Mr. Arkwrlght ? But we know what Mr.
Arkwrlght is  a very sensible man, everyone
says. If you chose to make It easier
for my grandfather, the rest would be
quickly managed. But you will do
nothing."

No, I never will," said I, leaning back
and looking, not at Maurice, but straight
before me. " You seem to expect a
good deal from me  that I should be

perfectly sweet and amiable at the prospect
of giving up all I love best, and, in addition
to that, should myself take steps towards
that giving up. You would not do it
yourself"

He was silent. The dispute seemed
to me endless. I was weary of it, and
thankful when at last our cab stopped
before the entrance to the hotel. After
such a pleasing and soothing preparation
for the visit, I mounted the stairs with
Maurice (they had a suite of private
rooms), and found myself once more in the
presence of my grandfather and Maud. I
had not gathered from Maurice's conversation
whether anything was to be said
about my going to Rooley, but I had an
uneasy fear lest I should hear something
of the kind. I had, too, a resentful feeling
that Maurice had tutored me a good deal
on the way hither, and I had no idea of

being tutored  by him. But I remembered
Madame Prenat's words  that I
was disappointing her  and though a good
deal bewildered by the various contending
elements of the situation, I did this time
greet Maud with a smile and more show
of cordiality, and I soon saw that she was
not so wooden as I had supposed. She,
too, smiled, and insisted on my going to
her room to take off my hat, saying it
would not be so formal. While we were
in her room, a slight incident took place
which again filled me with apprehension.
I laid my hat on a "table, and she handed
me a comb and a hand-glass. I passed
the comb through my hair, and was surprised
to hear her say 

'' What beautiful hair you have ! "
'' Oh, do you think so ? There is
plenty of it at any rate ; but I think it is
so dull looking."

"Oh no! It suits you exactly  your
face, and everything ; because," she added,
with a rather nervous smile, and a
heightened colour, " the rest of you is
beautiful too. Do you not enjoy being
so beautiful ? "

'' Indeed," I stammered, feeling my face
grow crimson, " I did not know I was so
beautiful. I  that is a thing Madame
Prenat does not approve of our thinking
much about."

She nodded. " I should not care
whether Madame Prenat approved or
disapproved, if I were like you," she said
sedately. ** Now, if you are ready, we
will go to the sitting-room."

Here was evidence of the most overwhelming
kind (to a feminine mind) that
Maurice had been right as to his sister's
feelings and I wrong. If anything were
said, after this touching proof of disinterested

admiration, I should look very-hard
and disagreeable If I repelled overtures
of friendship. Feeling the responsibility
a heavy one, I followed my cousin
into the parlour, where lunch was immediately
served.

It was not much of a success. How
could it have been so ? Mr. Grey tried to
talk to me, and I tried to talk to him.
He asked me questions as to my past life
and present pursuits, which I answered
with a candour necessitating constant
reference to Felix Arkwright ; and at
every mention of his name the old man
winced and coloured in a way which
showed me that I was not the only
member of the Grey family with an uncommonly
thin skin and a very sensitive
nervous system. The whole scene became
to me so trail-comic that I felt on the
verge of hysterical tears and laughter

combined. Finally, I managed to extricate
the talk from this particular grove by
introducing Professor Willoughby's name.
Every one knew it, of course ; even the
somewhat unlettered country squire knew
the name of Willoughby, so I set forth
in glowing terms my admiration of him,
and my gratitude for his kindness to me.
I spoke with enthusiasm of the grammar
of the Zend language which he was even
now compiling, and which was to surpass all
other grammars and beat all other grammarians
of that ancient speech out of the
field. I had had the honour of searching
through certain books and writings and of
furnishing him with some lists of words for
this work, and I was proud of it.

'' He knows more about the religion and
sacred writings of the Parsis than any
other man In the world's' I concluded, in
solemn triumph.

''He Is a great scholar, I have always
heard," said my grandfather ; " but it
seems to me an odd study for a girl like
you. It must take up so much of your
time."

Of course it does. I know very little
about it. It is the study of a lifetime
really to learn much about it."

*' Girls of eighteen are usually more apt
to be engaged with thoughts of their
amusements and their lovers," said the did
gentleman ; " but if you think it pleases
you more just now to dispute over the
relative antiquity of the Veda, or of the
-what is the other thing ?  the Zend-avesta,
why, I suppose you must have
your own way. It will all vanish like a
dream when you get married. That's why
I don't approve of learned ladies," he
added, in his rather croaking voice ; '' so
much good time wasted. Better learn to

manage a household and quaHfy for good
wives and mothers  Hke Maude, here."

I felt somewhat indignant. Of course,
I could not dispute with an old gentlemanlike
this, and candidly tell him how wide
of the mark were his views and how
utterly inapplicable to the present altered
condition of things. He would evidently
never approve of a woman devoting herself
to such a pursuit. Then I found Maurice's
eyes fixed so earnestly and intently on my
face, as if to watch the effect upon me of
his grandfather s words, that I was startled,
and felt again suspicious and unhappy.
But, by way of some kind of a reply, I
said 

I am not going to be married, and
I have no establishment to look after. I
should not like it if I had. I think it
would be a dreadful bore."

'' Oho ! not at all. Wait until the time

comes," said he. "It is then we see what
women's great professions come to."

*' But I don't make any professions," I
persisted. " I have only told you what
I do, and how much I like it."

*' Yes, yes, of course." He spoke in an
indulgent tone which exasperated me
extremely. " Have you ever lived much
in the country ? "

'* Oh yes ! " I cried enthusiastically.
"When I was quite little, when I lived at
Lanehead, with Mr. Arkwright  oh, how
I liked that ! He began to teach me Latin
and Greek. Yes, I love the country."

I did not mean that, exactly. You
have not, I imagine, ever stayed in any
house in which you had any interest or
share of your own."

No," I breathed. I felt what was
coming.

We are weak enough to think Rooley

a pretty place. Most people like it. I
think that during the vacation, whenever
it falls, you had better also come and try
it. Eh?"

'' I  I  it is not for me to say," I
murmured, feeling intensely miserable.

"You know that if you say, 'Yes,' Ines,
no one else will make any objections," said
Maurice, in a low tone.

I looked at them all three. I could not
speak. Mr. Grey turned quite pale ; his
lips quivered angrily. He was evidently
on the verge of saying, " Since our home
is not good enough for you, keep away
from it," or words to that effect. It was
the "wooden" Maud who came to the
rescue, saying quietly 

'' It need not be settled now, grandpa.
Nearer the time I can write to my cousin,
and perhaps she will be able to come."

I was thankful for her kindness, and

humbled by It, but I sincerely wished she
had allowed her grandfather's anger to
explode upon me. It might have resulted
in his casting me off for ever.

We rose from the table, and I did not
stay long after this. Though nothing had
been definitely settled, I felt as If I were
being gradually drawn more and more Into
the net. I would fain have gone home
alone, but of course that was not allowed.
Maurice came downstairs with me ; another
hansom was called, and again side by side
we drove to Madame Prenat's. This time
my cousin was rather silent till we approached
the end of our journey, when he
remarked 

You did not really answer my grandfather
when he said that your studies would
vanish like a dream after you got married."

No. Why should I have answered
him ? He does not understand."

''No. He belongs to a past generation,
and so does Maud, though she is but
nineteen and as good as gold. He cannot
understand that a woman may have the
sort of brains that make her love learning
for its own sake. And of course he cannot
understand that such a thing could exist
as a man who would actually rather that
his wife cultivated such things than that
she should simply be his housekeeper."

I was silent.

*' But there are such men, Ines," he
went on earnestly. '' You may believe
me, there are." He looked at me wistfully.

'' I dare say there may be. I don't
think men are all monsters. But it makes
no difference to me."

'' You will not always say that. The
day will come "

I will not listen to you," said I, looking
straight at him. " You accuse me of

being hard and unkind and revengeful, but
you never seem to think how you are
tormenting me, and how wretched you are
making me. I call it unmanly."

Maurice's face turned very pale. " I
am silenced just now," he replied. '' But
we are both young, and there is a lifetime
before us."

I shuddered a little at his words and at
the resolute expression on his mouth. He
did not come in, when we arrived 'at
Madame Prenat's, but satisfied himself
with shaking hands with me, saying he
should go home across the parks ; he
wanted a walk.

Altogether, It had been a very uncomfortable
day, and I felt no security in its
being the end, and not the beginning of
still further disagreeablenesses. I was not
satisfied with the part I had played in it
myself, and I was profoundly dissatisfied
VOL. III. 45

with all Maurice's looks and words. Why,
I asked myself once again with sudden
impatience and irritation, why could they
not let me alone ?

THE HOLIDAYS AND AFTERWARDS.

The holidays came. I had said nothing
to Madame Prenat about the kind of invitation
to Rooley which I had received,
hoping against hope that I should hear
no more of it. It was planned that we
were both to spend the greater part of the
time at Lanehead, old Mr. Arkwright's.
With an ostrich-like instinct, I made my
preparations for this visit, in the hope
that no one would notice me, and that
by escaping from facing the other project,
that project would as it were die a
natural death and be heard of no more.
In vain were my endeavours. One morning

there came a letter from Maud, reminding
me of my 'promise," and containing
quite a cordial invitation to go and stay
with them as long as I could spare the
time. There was nothing for it but to
hand this missive to Madame Prenat, who
read it, and, looking at me in amazement,
asked what it meant.

They invited me when I went to see
them, but I hoped they would forget all
about it," I explained.

But she speaks of your ' promise ' ! "

That is a delusion, at any rate. My
words were that it was not in my hands."

'' This puts an end to Lanehead. Of
course you must go to them. Ines, this
is the first time I ever knew you descend
to subterfuge."

'' Madame Prenat ! " I cried, and burst
Into tears.

But there was no escape. I felt there

was not, and I gave in at once. This
time I did not even ask Madame Prenat
what FeHx would say to it. I knew that
she would crush me by replying that he
quite approved.

Accordingly, our plans were altered.
Madame went to visit some friends in
France. I proceeded to Rooley Park,
and spent five weeks there. I need not
enter into the details of the visit ; in some
respects it was better, in others worse,
than I had expected it would, be. As
time went on, I grew to like Maud, and to
seek her society ; to avoid Maurice as
much as possible ; and I did not gain any
feeling of liking for my grandfather. Considering
that we looked upon every circumstance
of my life from totally opposite
standpoints, it was perhaps hardly likely
that the affection between us should tend
to increase. He regarded an admission

into the Inner circle of the Grey family asa
privilege coming little short of a beatitude.
He could not understand that any one to
whom such a prospect was held out could
be anything but enraptured by it. I, on
the contrary, with the memory of my
mother's gallant struggle and slow martyrdom
quite vivid in my mind ; with the
feelings of love, of admiration, and of
gratitude towards the man who had befriended
me and dealt generously by me
when all others forsook me  which feelings
had been growing and accumulating for
eleven years, till they had become part
of myself, till the idea of being torn away
from that life was torment to me  was far
from appreciating the bliss of an entrance
into this family. My indifference to the
prospect was quite visible to my grandfather,
and he could not forgive me for it.
For my part, I did my best to be civil

and polite while I was there, and longed
intensely for the time to come to an end,
and for the ten days at old Mr. Arkwright's,
which were to finish the holidays.
Madame Prenat was to join me there, and
I looked forward to it as to paradise.
Everything in this visit tended to make me
more and more dislike the prospect of any
prolonged stay with these people. Mr.
Grey and Maud were conservatives of the
old school, with ancient notions about
society and the sort of people whom one
might safely visit. Madame Prenat was
to them a most estimable person, who had
kept a school  a nobody, from a social
and family point of view. Felix was, of
course, just what Maurice had once unguardedly
admitted, '' a professional singer "
as respectable, doubtless, as such a person
could be, but still neither more nor less
than a professional singer. They said as

little about them as possible. My dear
old Mr. Arkwright would have come into
something of the same category. Lord
Urmston's librarian  oh yes, we know the
Britons  delightful people  what a fine
library he has ! But the librarian ? Well,
libraries must have librarians ; it does not
concern us.

Maurice, of course, was far more enlightened,
and had no such obsolete notions ;
but he frequently, I observed, gained his
ends by the practice of a masterly inactivity,
and, as in town he saw society enough
after his own taste, he never irritated his
grandfather or shocked his sister by
obtruding any account of his intimates,
though he would not have hesitated fora
moment to " own up " to any company
he kept. To any hint about my coming
to " settle " at Rooley, I invariably replied
that Mr, Arkwright had said I was to

remain for two years with Madame Prenat,
and that I did not know what he intended
to do at the end of that time. This always
silenced my grandfather. But one day,
just before my departure, Maud said tome


Ines, you are so truthful that I feel
quite strange every time I hear you talk
about staying two years with Madame
Prenat."

Why ? It is perfectly true. It was said
to me."

Yes ; but you know ' circumstances
alter cases.' There are circumstances
which might make it absurd to try and
carry out that project, if you chose."

I would not ask her what she meant ;
but, raising my eyes and looking forth into
the garden, I saw the figure of Maurice
advancing across the lawn to where he
could see us in the drawing-room. Maud

looked at me and nodded. I shook my
head silently.

I had promised Madame Prenat that I
would put aside my studies entirely during
this visit, and I kept my word ; but it was
at a price. Turned loose, as it were,
amidst fields and trees, with the pleasant
monotony of country life about me, even
with new persons to become acquainted
with, it all was not sufficient to chase away
reflection ; it was now that the former
days came back to me, and I missed them
and the dear ones who had made them full
of happiness and hope. Madame Prenat,
Elisabeth, Mr. Arkwright, Felix  their
absence caused a constant ache at my
heart. The past year, when I looked
back upon it, seemed a very long one ; the
one to come, when I looked forward to it,
seemed to stretch into the indefinite future
without any prospect of an end.

I left Rooley at last, without any definite
arrangement for my return having been
come to. It was a joyful meeting with
Madame Pr6nat. The ten days at Lane-head,
in the beautiful September weather,
were sweet, with dashes and flavours of
bitterness about them. Here was the
garden, there the pond, the trees, the
moors  everything as it had been, but
with so much gone from it. Nevertheless,
it was with the keenest regret that I left 'it
all. We journeyed up to town together,
and the beginning of October saw us once
more established "at home" in the London
square, with all the London sights and
sounds around us.

CHAPTER VIII.

I SPEAK TO PROFESSOR WILLOUGHBY.

One morning, when I was collecting my
books and was full of preparations for
plunging into study again, Madame Pre-nat's
waiting-maid opened the door and
Spoke two words 

'' Mrs. Reichardt."

For a moment I stood speechless, not
realizing it, then, with a loud sob of joy, I
cast myself upon the advancing figure of
Elisabeth, who indeed was there, holding
out her arms to me and smiling with what
appeared to me the most angelic sweetness.


Elisabeth, Elisabeth ! " was all I could

say, stroking her face, and kissing her
again and again. " Oh, how good to see
you ! Oh, how I have longed for you ! "

Elisabeth did not say very much, but I
perceived a sort of mist or dew in her soft
dark eyes. She smiled and caressed me,
and the sight of her face and the touch of
her hand gave me the same sensations
that one experiences when spring, unmistakable
spring, succeeds to winter.

Why, child," said she at last, " you
might be unhappy  are you ? "

Oh no ; that is  It is wretched to be
cut off from you as I have been, but I
cannot be unhappy ; Madame Prenat is
so good, and the Professor is so wonderful.
I thought I was quite happy  till this
moment  till I saw you."

'' Poor little maiden ! Not so little,
though," she held me slightly aloof, and
surveyed me. " You were always tall, Ines.

I do believe you have grown  filled out,
at any rate ; and, child, what a beautiful
pale face you have got. There ! it is red
enough now. Do you blush so at an old
woman's compliment ?  who never does
pay compliments, by the way. Now, listen,
my dear. I am here for only a very short
time  every hour is filled up, of course ;
but this evening is for you and me. I am
staying at Limmer's, and you are to come
and dine there with me to-night  alone,
yes. I have arranged it all with Madame
Prenat. Come at seven ; dinner won't be
ready then, but I shall. And I will see
that you come safely back again. So,
nothing more till evening. I am late for
an appointment now."

Oh yes ; I won't keep you. Seven
o'clock. Oh, I /ioJ>e nothing will prevent
it."

Of course nothing will prevent it. I

will tell you to-night all you want to know.
We shall hardly have time to get it all in.
Auf Wiedersehen ! "

She was gone, and it was with a very
abstracted mind that I pursued my studies
for the rest of the day.

Seven o'clock found me installed by the
bright fire in her sitting-room at the
hotel ; full of eagerness to gain information
on different topics.

You say Mr. Arkwright is well ? Hav
you seen him lately ? "

'' I saw him last night. He was singing
at the concert, so I both saw and heard
him, of course." 

'' Ah ! " said I. '' And what did he sing ? ''

She told me his songs, and then added 

"He is coming down to Irkford soon "
she spoke in a matter-of-fact tone  '' to
spend his last days with us before setting
sail."

Then it is really true that he is going
to America ? "

'rit is really true. He goes at the end
of this month."

'* The end of this month ! " I seemed
unable to do anything but repeat her
words, with a parrot-like want of
originality.

'eyes. They are never satisfied, you
know, over there, till they have got a sight
of everything of ours that we think the
most of  and of course some of us think a
great deal of him ; and they tempt people
with such sums of money, and so he's
going."

''He would never be tempted by
money," I said, with the lofty calm of
conviction.

Wouldn't he ? My dear, you know
nothing about it. He is tired of the life,
and of course the more money he makes,

in a short time, the sooner he can leave it
and arrange his Hfe to his own satisfaction.
Why should he be indifferent about the
money ? "

I was silent. What I was thinking was,
that I had never heard him utter a word
implying that money was of the slightest
importance to him. So, with calm confidence,
I had taken him literally,  and
made a mistake, it would seem. The next
thought I had was that he was (she said)
tired of his professional life, and wishful to
leave it ; and ready to make plenty ot
money to enable him quickly to do so.
But I was absolutely certain that he had
never said anything to Madame Pr6nat
suggestive of retrenchment or economy in
my expenses. I could not have given any
grounds for this conviction, but I knew it
to be a true one. I became lost in thought.
Elisabeth was talking. I vaguely heard

VOL. III. 46

her voice, but knew nothing of what she
said. At last I looked up, and Inquired 

'' Is he going to stay long in America ? "

At least a year ; and to sing here,
there, and everywhere."

'* Oh ! " I said, and became again lost in
profound reflection and speculation.

At this juncture dinner was announced,
and we sat down to it, but while the man
was in the room we discoursed only of
indifferent things  of the places we had
visited, the things we had done, and of my
studies with the Professor, in which she
took a lively interest.

At last we were alone again. I was
about to attack her with another question
relative to Felix, but she suddenly said 

*' No, I know what you want to say,
Ines. But, if you please, we will talk about
something else. I don't suppose he would
like us to be gossiping about him all the

evening. And I want to know all about
yourself, and about these wonderful cousins
you have been seeing. What are they
like ? Tell me about it from the beginning."


'* The beginning was Maurice," I replied,
with a heavy sigh.

Oh, the beginning was Maurice, was
it ? Well, I think I know who and what
Maurice is, though you told me little
enough about him till you went to stay
with them. So, make it good now. How
was it that Maurice began ? I remember
him quite well. I have an excellent
memory for faces."

I was very unwilling to enter upon this
topic. In the circumstances, it appeared
to me to be a waste of time. But
Elisabeth persisted ; she listened to me,
and questioned me with a closeness from
which I could not escape. She wanted to

hear about his looks, his ways, his capabilities,
and his prospects, and especially about
the relation in which he stood to his grandfather
 in short, about everything concerning
him. Then I had to tell about my
visit to Rooley Park, and all that had
happened there. When I ceased, she was
silent for a little while, and then said 

'' So no really definite plan was come to
as to your going there ? "

'' No. Every time they hinted at it, I
said I was to stay two years with Madame
Prenat ; and, of course, one of those years
is now gone. I would not let it be talked
about definitely."

'' Yet, if such a scheme were really
broached  if Mr. Grey said it was his
wish, and made the right kind of proposals
about providing for you, and all
that  it would be your duty to agree
to it." .

*' But, please, tell me," I said, repressing
my agitation as well as I could, "why
would it be my duty to agree to it? It
would not be given from affection  the
invitation, I mean. Mr. Grey does not
like me ; it would only be because his
pride or vanity, or whatever you may call
it, cannot bear the idea of one of his family
living, as I am doing, on the kindness of a
person on whom they have no claims."

Still, I am almost sure you should go,
if it is talked about again," she said
gravely, kindly, but still, as I saw, very
decidedly.

I felt as if my last rock of refuge had
been submerged, when Elisabeth thus
declared for the enemy, so to speak. I
felt chill, as if I had come in contact with
an iceberg.

Why ? " I asked, in a voice that was
nothing more than a loud whisper.

Because, partly, you are now grownup.
You are eighteen, and you are a tall
and a stately and a noticeable eighteen, my
dear; and, If other things were right, it
would be more suitable that you should be
with them than as you are."

"As I am with Madame Prenat ! " I
said, desperately clutching at straws.

'with Madame Prenat but as Felix
Ark Wright's prouder

And have I not always been like
that ? "

Yes ; and when you were otherwise
friendless, it was all right. When a man
interposes between a helpless creature and
misery, or ill-usage, or unhappiness, and
there is no one else to do it, conventionality
is silenced, and Mrs. Grundy for once
must * take a back seat ' ; no one would
listen to her. But when the child has
grown into a woman, and there Is the kind

of home awaiting her which naturally
belongs to her  when it is a case like this,
everything is changed. Yes, Ines ; it is
painful, but it is so."

Do you mean," I asked, '' that Mr.
Arkwrlght is tired of me  that he would
like to turn me over to some one else ? "

** Ines ! What a terrible face ! What a
tragic expression ! No, I do not mean
anything of the kind. Felix has been a
father and a friend to you from the time
when you were seven years old. He is
not tired of you. He will never want to
get rid of you. Don't think it. It is
difficult to explain, and, indeed, I don't
think you need it explained. You are
old enough, and know enough of the ways
of the world, to understand. And relations
have a kind of claim which no other people
can have. This old Mr. Grey seems to
have found out that he did very wrong in

every way In casting off his own flesh and
blood in his anger. He is in a very
awkward position. He gave FeHx the
right to do as he pleased in regard to you.
But if he wants to try and rectify his
mistake, even so late as this, it seems tome
he ought to be allowed to do it."

"No matter what I suffer ? "

Why should you suffer ? No one
would want to tear you away from your
old friends  we could stipulate very decidedly
about that. You could see as
much of us as you ever have done. The
only difference would be that your home
at the other times would be at this Rooley
place instead of with Madame Prenat."

Amongst people who don't take the
most elementary interest in any of the
things which have made up my whole life."

Ines, have you a very powerful objection
to making one of that family ? "

Yes," I almost groaned.

Shall I tell you what it Is that makes
you hate it so much ? "

I looked at her In silence.

My dear," said she gently, stroking
my hand, 'you are afraid your cousin
Maurice would want you to marry him,
and that, once there, you would be at a
great disadvantage In the matter."

My hand started aside under hers.

You need not go so white, and look so
desperate," she said. " Is it not so ? "

** Yes," said I. " For a long time I
would not believe it. I so hated It. But
it is so. And when you speak out, I know
it is so."

She nodded gravely. *' And you could
not marry him ? "

'never'' I said, with a shudder of
affright.

** Dear, dear ! Yet he seems so "

He is almost perfect, I believe. And
he is so determined that he gets almost
everything he wants. If I went there,
perhaps he would make me marry him,
and then I should die."

*soh no, indeed, you would not. And perhaps
it is not only he who is determined."

I sat in gloomy silence. At last she
said 

'' Well, I do not think you were so very
unwise in insisting on your two years with
Madame Prenat. That is something definite,
at any rate. Perhaps they will drop
the subject."

I felt sure they would not ; but I had
no heart to make any reply. I did not
again mention Felix's name. It had got
poisoned to me, somehow. My horizon
was clouded.

At ten o'clock Elisabeth, on her way
to a reception, dropped me at Madame

Prenat s. She was leaving on the following
morning. She was kindness itself,
wished me the most affectionate farewell,
and told me to keep her posted up in my
concerns ; and she added 

* I wish I could help you."

I thanked her, and said I knew it was
out of her power to do so. I passed a
wakeful night, but during that vigil I came
to a knowledge which some people acquire
even earlier than I did ; some never have
it thrust upon them, and others are incapable
of taking it in. I came to the sure
and certain conviction that, though I had
been sheltered and guarded all my life,
protected from every rude blast of fortune,
made happy and surrounded by friends,
yet, in this first great crisis of my life, the
only person who could be of any help torne
at all, was just myself, Ines Grey.

On the following mornlnof, after a lesson
with Professor Willoughby, at the close of
which he expressed himself satisfied with
my performances, I said 

Professor Willoughby, supposing I
wanted to earn a little money, do I know
anything  can I do anything that would
enable me to do so ? Do I know enough
about philology to be of use to any one in
such a study ? "

He looked at me for some time before
fully comprehending me, and said at last 

Yes, my dear child, you do. I have
sometimes said to my wife that I almost
wished you were obliged to earn your own
livelihood ; for saying which thing she has
always scolded me soundly. But I could
give you plenty to do. I would make you
my own private secretary in the first place,
because I know you and can trust you
absolutely."

And if ever I should come to you  I
mean, if I should come to you before long,
and ask you for work, would you give it
me ? " I asked, trembling with excitement
and agitation.

That very day I will give it you," he
answered me, his pale eyes gleaming upon
me through his spectacles. His hand 
his long, delicate, thin hand, almost transparent
in its spareness  rested on the table"
near me. I stooped, and kissed it gently

Dear Professor ! " I said, " you have
taken away all fear from my heart by that
promise. You will not forget it ? "

*' I shall not forget it," said he, with a
slow, reflective smile, as he looked down
at his hand, and then lifted it from the
table and observed it, and seemed to find
that it looked much as usual. Then, as if
he felt that it behoved him also to do
something out of the common, the  smile

broadened, he patted my shoulder, and
said, '* Good child ! The best head  and
heart too  for the early Sanskrit inflections
that I ever met. Find her work ? Yes,
indeed, I will find her work  as much as
she can do."

I went home, as I had told him, free
from all fear, calm and contented. The
possibility -nay, almost the prospect  of a
great sorrow faced me. In spite of Elisabeth's
words of kindness, it faced me.
Thank God, if it came, I had that within
me, it seemed, which would sustain me
through it.

Thus ended the first year of my separation
from Felix. Shortly afterwards I
saw in the newspapers that he had sailed
for New York in the Cunarder Batavia.

CHAPTER IX.

A CORRESPONDENCE.

Nearly twelve months later I was still in
London, was still under Madame Prenat's
roof, outwardly under exactly the same
conditions as before. Inwardly, however,
things had  progressed, shall I say ? 
developed, at least. It would be but a
tedious task to go in detail into all the
causes which at this time made me feel
sad and depressed. It is certain that I
was sad and depressed, and for one of the
best of reasons, namely, that a certain
course lay open before me. Everything
invited me to enter upon it ; my friends

would all have fully approved, had I done
so ; many painful, embarrassing, and
troublesome questions would have been
for ever settled by my acting as it was
desired that I should act in this matter.
Only, to myself alone the deed did not
commend itself ; the bare contemplation
of it made me chill and cold with
desolation. I could not bring myself toit
; and yet, weak-minded fool that I
was, I could not go on my way without
making myself wretched with constant
fears lest those I loved should disapprove
of my refusal to comply with their wishes,
and think me a bore, or an ungrateful
creature.

Our outside life, as I say, went on in
much the same way ; but two things had
taken place. My cousin Maurice had
proposed to me some two or three months
before, and I had refused him. This

refusal It was which I had an inward
feeling my friends disapproved. Dreading
any future pressure on the subject, I had
made good my words and had asked
Professor Willoughby for work. He had
promptly found me some. I did It at his
house, but It was not all for him ; It was
secretarial work, and the hunting-out of
references and quotations, and the reading
and making abstracts from many dry and
solid books, both for him and for his
friends. For this work I received a small
salary, with the assurance on the professor's
part that ivhen I chose to cut
myself adrift from the frivolous attractions
of society, and really go In for work, I
could have enough to support myself
humbly but effectually. Madame Prenat
knew of this arrangement, and took upon
herself to sanction It and assume the
responsibility of letting me make it.
VOL. III. 47

Maurice, who still continued to visit us,
and who had taken my refusal of his offer
in very bad part, may have known, or may
not have known, that I no longer worked
solely for pleasure. I never made any
attempt to conceal the fact, if I did not
openly and formally declare that it was so.
If he knew, he judged it better to make no
comments on the matter. Perhaps he felt
that to expostulate, or be angry, without
the power of enforcing his will upon me,
would be undignified. I had written to
Lisa a dry, succinct kind of letter, recounting
facts, without commenting much
upon them. I felt that I owed it to her tolet
her know how my concerns went, but
after her strongly expressed opinion as to
its being my duty to go and live at Rooley
Park if it were seriously required of me,
I had little hope that she would see this
matter as I saw it. She had replied to

my letter, had said she was sorry for my
embarrassment, but had added Httle more.
This, I was sure, was another proof that I
had not altogether pleased her by the line
I had taken. All my old, settled habits,
my happy looking-forward to a future,
which, even if it should be filled with hardwork,
would be sweetened by the love and
good-will and comradeship of friends  all
these were disturbed. I felt no security,
no sense of permanency, in anything that I
did ; and I felt as if I were cut adrift from
Felix for ever.

In the mean time, the correspondence
which follows had been going on ; the two
first letters of which correspondence I did
not see then, nor for many a long day
afterwards. Yet I must give them herein
their due order, and they will suffice to
explain a good deal which to me remained
dark for a long time after this.

From Mrs. Reich art, in Irkford, England,
to Felix Arkwright, at Chicago,
Illinois, U.S.A.

Irkford, August 15, 18  .
*' My dear Felix,

According to your account of
yourself, you will receive this when you
are in Chicago for the second time. Two
visits ought to have made you quite ' learnt
up,' as they say here, in the manners and
customs of Chicago. Is it true that there
they live in just twice as much of a hurry
as they do in New York, which, with this
exception, is the fastest city in the universe
? And is it true that the Chicago
girls are very plain, and have immense
feet and hands ? I do so want to know
the truth on these two points. You must
have had rather a delightful summer, it
seems to me, judging from the account
you give of yourself and your doings.

How I should revel in a little of that
splendid dry heat of which you so ungratefully
complain ! I hope it will not be allover
by the time we get there ; surely it
will be just about the time for Indian
summer, won't it ?

From this you will gather that we
have decided upon the right and proper
course. We are coming, my Vdteixhcn
and I, and I am looking forward to it as
if I were a girl of eighteen, only much
more intelligently, I flatter myself ! I am
reading it up, and asking questions about
it of every one I know, and studying the
politics, till I really think I begin to have
a glimmering notion as to what Republicans
and Democrats actually are. And 1 have
been longing for the moment when we
shall leave Oueenstown behind us, almost
more than for that other moment when we
shall see Sandy Hook before us. Only

now the father says that, according to your
programme, you will be at Baltimore,
Maryland, when we arrive, and that we
had much better go on one of the Allan
liners, and land in the monumental city
itself and have a few days' longer sail,
than go to New York and have a long,
uninteresting railway journey to make
before we meet you. And he is right, as
usual.

Now, there is another thing to which
you must give your attention. You have
been very busy, and very much feted, and
so forth, and I dare say you don't want
responsibilities thrust upon you from three
thousand miles off, especially before the
time at which they are fairly due. Nevertheless,
I must remind you that by the
time we join you, it will be nearly the end
of those two years during which you told
Ines she was not to see anything of you.

You win not be at home at the end of
that time ; that is just because circumstances
make it more desirable that you
should stay longer where you are, and
no one is to blame for that. Of course
it will be quite easy to tell her, if you
choose to do so, that your tour has been a
longer one than you at first contemplated,
and that she must stay quietly at home
with Madame Prenat till you return. That
would be easy, for you, and she would
never dispute the fiat. But I must tell
you that poor Ines is not at all happy just
now. She is persecuted with a suitor  no
other than her cousin Maurice Grey, who
apparently has some extraordinary influence
over his choleric old grandfather,
for he has got his consent to the marriage
taking place if he can obtain that
of Ines. He has not succeeded, so far.
Perhaps she really does not care for him ;

perhaps she fancies she does not. At any
rate, she steadily refuses to Hasten to him ;
and at the same time she has an impression
that all her friends would greatly approve
of the marriage, including you to whose
views she naturally attaches some importance.
She hates to be disappointing the
people she thinks so much of. At the
same time, she hates the marriage, and she
knows that old Mr. Grey would not really
love it, though he has been subdued into
giving his consent. She Is in a miserable
position. The whole thing makes her
wretched. I have not said much to her
about It ; you have silenced me on the
subject. But I must say I hate to see
a girl badgered in that way, and I don't
think It fair to her, either. She has been
too long in the same groove ; she cannot
see things clearly or impartially. I think
she ought to get out of it all  yes, even

out of our good Prenat's influence  for a
time. You know the tendency of the
latter's influence  to make all who come
under her hand so fastidious and ' utter '
in their ideas about men and things, that
ordinary mortals seem quite common and
unclean to them. I have noticed a little
bit of this in Ines lately, and I am of
opinion that a journey across the Atlantic,
and a taste of the rough fresh air of that
undeveloped society and civilization in
which you are now 'located,' would do
her a power of good, in every way.
Master Maurice is very determined ; let
him wait. Perhaps absence will make her
fonder. I want her to come with us 
there, I have said it. She need not trouble
you. [Mrs. Reichardt's face, as she wrote
this Machiavellian sentence, may or may
not have been worth studying.] And
I want you to let me have the pleasure

of bringing her with me. She Is to be
my property for the time being ; my guest,
my visitor, my child. I so often spend
my money and my energy in such very
unsatisfactory ways. Nearly always, when
I try to ' do good,' I make a mess of it,
and get horribly cheated into the bargain.
I fear mine Is one of the * first-class hearts
and fourth-class heads ' spoken of by a
recent social prophet. This time it is the
first-class part of me, the heart, that I
would consult. I simply want to please
myself and gratify myself, and consult my
own wishes and Inclinations, and I'm sure
you will never be the man to thwart mein
this design. You shall have no responsibility
in the matter ; I will take it all.
And, let me tell you, the child is by no
means without views of her own, and intentions
as to the career she desires to
pursue. I think she will do her own way

in the end, but most naturally she would
like to have your approval before settling
down to the life she thinks of. You will
have time, if you write at once, to let me
have an answer to this some fortnight or
more before we sail. I am in a great
hurry now, and cannot say any more.
Write at once. Good-bye.

-Lisa."

From Felix Arkwright to Mrs.
Reichardt.

Chicago, August 31, 18  .

* My dear Lisa,

'' Thanks for your letter. Since
you yourself have introduced the odious
topic of the weather, you must even excuse
me for saying that I agree with all my
heart with the person, whoever it was,
who said that the climate In these northern
States consisted of nine months of winter,

and three of  hell  if you will have it. It
is perfectly true, and I will say no more
about it, but reply to your letter.

I am delighted that you and Mr.
Reichardt are coming, and shall welcome
your advent with heartfelt joy. Your
father-in-law is right as to its behoof better
for you to come direct to Baltimore, rather
than to go first to New York, and, all
being well, I expect I shall be there at the
time of your arrival. So that is all right.

All your other remarks are full of
wisdom, as usual, and you did well to
remind me of what I had almost forgotten
that stipulation about Ines remaining
for two years with Madame Prenat, and
that the time will have almost expired.
I remember, we had quite a discussion
about it before I left England ; and you,
I could see, scorned my ideas in the
matter. I think I did not arrange it so

badly, after all. By all means, if it will
give you any pleasure to bring Ines with
you, in the way you suggest, do so. You
have my full consent. It is true, she must
have quite grown out of the schoolgirl now,
and must be rather an independent young
person, if she has ' views ' for the future.
I am curious to know what they can be.
She was a very sweet and lovely child ;
that I remember quite distinctly. With
regard to the young man, I confess I had
not thought of his falling in love with her,
but upon my word, except for the fact that
they are cousins, I see no objection to the
match. There's a sort of poetical justice
in .it, too  don't you think so?  with
regard to the grandfather. Things like
this are always happening. But, as you
say, she must not be teased into it. They
are both very young, and can afford to
wait till they know their minds thoroughly.

As for my wishing to be relieved of her 
what nonsense ! Let her * come along '
when you do, and I will myself convince
her of that, poor girl ! Give her my love,
and tell her I shall expect to see her with
you. Then she can, if she pleases, tell
me her objections to Master Maurice, and
I will do my best seriously to consider
them. What an odd position for me to
attain to in my old age  a kind of Schieds-
richter between these young people !

As for what you ask about the Chicago
girls, and their feet and hands, I can only
tell you that to me their feet and hands
look like those of other girls. And as for
the fastness of Chicago, I suppose it is
rapid enough for those who care for that
kind of rapidity  of the market and the
stock exchange. Socially considered, I
have not found it overwhelming in anyway.
I like the southern women ; so will

you, when you see them. Some of them
you must and shall see, and we shall be
well on the way to them at Baltimore.
Write to my banker's at New York. I
am a little uncertain as to where I go next.
Onwards  but whither ? '

** Always yours,

Felix Arkwright."

From Mrs. Reichardt to Ines Grey.

"Irkford, September i, i8  . .

My dear Ines,

I have delayed writing to you
for more than a week, because I wanted
to be definite when I did write. Now I
can write and can be definite too ; so,
without beating about the bush, I will tell
you my plans, and I hope you will see
your way to falling in with them, and
giving me a real pleasure at the same
time. You know that Mr. Reichardt and

I made up our minds to go and join Mr.
Arkwright in America for the last part of
his tour. It is a journey we have long
wished to take, and the opportunity was
a tempting one. Of course we shall not
be with him all the time, as we shall have
a lot of ground to go over which he has
done already, but I hope he will be able
to come with us to a good many spots we
wish to visit. We leave in about a fortnight
from now, and I want you to come
with us. Do not make any scruples or
objections. I have thought it well over,
and it Is all right. ' This is my show,' if
you please. I have been looking forward
to it for a long time, and when I had
arranged all my plans I wrote to Mr.
Arkwright and told him what I wished,
and with his usual good-nature he at once
sent his consent,  his love, and you were
to come with us, and he should hope to

see us all at the same time. So that will
be all right. You are going to be my
daughter for some months now, if you
will. It will make me so glad. And how-delightful
for us to get our first glimpse
of the New World together! It w\\\
double my pleasure. What a lot of things
we shall see before we get back  and hear
too. There is one thing we shall miss,
on account of the season of the year at
which we go  the 'summer boarders'
spoken of by Mr. Howell In his novels.
Don't you remember them In ' The Lady
of the Aroostook ? ' I am dying to know
what ' summer boarders ' are really like,
but I fancy that as a race they die out
annually by the end of September. And
board walks ' are another feature that I
am anxious to see for myself; also 'ocean
parlours.' We must see an 'ocean parlour;'
It gives an idea of such space, doesn't It ?

VOL. HI. 48

There are many other things that we
shall rejoice in, I know. Felix says their
fruits and vegetables are a dream, and that
terrapin soup and devilled crabs, once
eaten, dwell in the memory for ever.
What a gourmand I grow in my old age !

''So much for the pleasure part of it.
Now for the serious side of the question.
My dear, you are no longer a child, as
you know ; and though I have said little
about it, I have fully realized that you
have had great difficulties with regard to
your cousin Maurice. I said nothing,
because what could I say ? But I know
all about it, and am convinced that the
best thing is for you to get away from
your present surroundings for a time. Let
me be quite frank with you. I have told
your guardian how things stand. His
views on the matter are, that if it were with
your full consent and inclination, he sees

no objection to the marriage, but in no
other circumstances would he think of
it. He would not for a moment have
you force your feelings on the subject.
And I think he would, perhaps, if he saw
you, like to ask you a few questions about
it. It will be much the most satisfactory
way of settling the matter once for
all. And you won't be surprised, dear,
if he should have forgotten something of
the details of your life. You see, he has
had a busy time over there. He has been
travelling, seeing new things, becoming
acquainted with heaps of new people. He
has lived through rather more  to put it
mildly  during these two years, than you
or I have ; and it is only natural that it
will perhaps cost him a little effort to take
up the thread of our lives. But we won't
mind that, will we ? We will soon refresh
his memory.

''If, In the end, you should decide to
carry out your own plans, and to make
a path in life for yourself  and I am far
from disapproving of such a resolution 
it will always be a pleasant episode for
you to recall  this journey, I mean. So
thinks your friend Elisabeth, who hopes
ever to be your friend. Now, I have said
nothing to Madame Prenat, because I wish
to leave your choice free. I have put the
matter before you ; it is for yourself to
decide in it. If you make up your mind
to come, send me a wire, and I will then
write fully to her ; but you will tell her,
of course, as soon as you have decided.
And when I know what you will do, I
can give you also some further details
In the matter. My love to you, dear
child.

Ever your affectionate

Lisa."

This letter, coming when it did, caused
me mixed emotions. As may be imagined,
I was highly excited at the prospect
opened out to me. Looked at from one
point of view, it promised nothing but
pleasure. How good Elisabeth was tome!
How delicate her way of arranging
things ; how faithful and lasting her kindness
! For a few moments I gave myself
up to the prospect disclosed by this unexpected
invitation with unmixed delight.
To travel away from my present surroundings,
with friends so dear as these ; to
meet Felix again ; to renew, even in a
far-away, distant land, some of those happy
hours and days which in the past had been
so delightful  it was nothing short of bliss
to contemplate such a possibility. By
the brightness and light-heartedness which
came over me, I suddenly knew how very
sad and dejected I had been.

And this sadness was not at once to be
chased away, for all at once a shadow came
athwart the prospect. I was no longer
a child  most truly Lisa said it  no longer
irresponsible and in the hands of others ;
I knew it full well. I should go with
Elisabeth ; I should see Felix ; I should
have to explain to him, and doubtless he
would, as she said, have forgotten a great
deal out of my life, at any rate. They
would be very kind to me, but the hated
topic would have to be renewed ; it would
once more be broached : your cousin
Maurice wishes to marry you ; what are
your objections to him ? I was so well
aware that I had no business to have
objections. I saw so clearly how easily,
charmingly, and harmoniously such a marriage
would settle every point in my vexed
relations with my father's family, and even
with Felix himself. And last of all, but

not least  perhaps largest  In spite of what
Elisabeth said, I could not help feeling as
if Felix not only approved of this match
but wished for It. I suspected him of no
sordid motives. I did not for an instant
doubt his generosity and goodness, or think
he ever had grudged, or ever would
grudge, anything he had done or could
do for me. It was not that. It was other
things. I could not have explained them
at least, I would not try ; but I knew In
my heart what they were, and that In all
this kindness of Elisabeth's, the greatest
kindness was that she proposed for me to
make this tour as her protegee and not
as that of Felix Arkwright.

I was alone as I thought it all over.
I was not debating whether I should
accept her proposal or not  I never had
the least intention of doing anything else ;
it was the best thing in every way. But

I was suddenly overcome with a great
loneliness and dreariness. I covered my
face with my hands and wept, saying to
myself, ** Oh, cruel world ! cruel, cruel
world ! and life that Is so full of ache and
bitterness ! "

This, however, I soon felt to be folly.
In spite of all worries and all anxieties,
I found my heart elated by the prospect
afforded me. I quickly recovered myself,
dried my tears, put on my things to goto
Professor Willoughby's, and on my way
thither despatched a telegram to Elisabeth,
saying, " I accept your invitation ; shall
write to-day."

At the Professor's, when my morning's
work was done, and just before the lunch-bell
rang, I told him what was going to
happen. I had revolved things In my own
mind ; I knew what he would say ; and
when he had got over his first surprise

and vexation at the prospect of the interruption
in our work, I said that I did not
think I should be more than a few months
in America, and that I hoped he would
keep open for me on my return the place
I now held. I should never like to be with
any one else so much as with him, and
I should look forward to rejoining him.
At first he promised promptly to do as
I wished. Then, with a vast effort bending
his learned mind to mundane matters,
he said 

But, my dear child, it occurs to my
recollection that I have heard vaguely,
from some one  who my informant was
I cannot remember  something about a
young gentleman, who seeks your hand in
marriage  yes "  he looked at me, as if
surprised  " I suppose it might be so ; you
are not what they call a schoolgirl anymore
 and who only awaits your consent

and that of your guardian to make you his
wife."

*' There is such a person," said I dryly
and uncomfortably; "but he will never
obtain my consent."

No ? Young ladies, I have heard 
and indeed it appears even in the ancient
legends of the East, as well as in the so-called
poetry of the present day  are given
to changing their minds on such matters.
You must not do that, and make a fool of
me  you must not, indeed."

'' Professor Willoughby, I assure you it
is chiefly in order to get this thing settled,
to get it absolutely decided that I never
need think of marrying him, that I am
going away now. I can't bother you with
explanations; but that is how it is. And as
soon as it is really arranged, how glad and
thankful I shall be to come back to you."

'' Well, well ! " said he, wishful to believe

me, " let us leave it so. I shall miss
you very much  very much." And his
large pale eyes gleamed upon me again
through their spectacles.

'you may safely leave it so," said I.
I wish I could make you understand how
safely."

This was obstacle the first removed. I
could come back to the Professor, and be
sure of a welcome, that was evident. I
returned in good spirits, and broke my
news to Madame Prenat, telling her she
would hear from Elisabeth very soon. She
was very silent all that day, but on the
following morning she received a long
letter from Elisabeth, some of which, but
not all, she read to me. She uttered many
exclamations ; nodded her head, agreed,
disagreed, and finally, unable to control
her interest in the matter, sat down and
talked to me about it with eloquence ;

giving me full directions as to what I was
particularly to observe and study in the
great Republic  things social, political,
literary ; with many a warning and admonition.
Then we discussed what I was
to take, and what to leave ; and while we
were in the midst of this, in the afternoon,
Maurice was announced. He had
not been for a long time. Instantly he
observed our preoccupation.

You look as if something very interesting
and exciting has happened," he said tome.


*' Something has," I told him. '' I am
going to see the world." And then I
revealed the prospects that spread before
me. He looked exceedingly grave, and
for a time was silent and thoughtful, but
at last discussed the matter with some
interest. At last, shortly before taking his
leave, he said to me 

Have you Mr. Arkwright's address ? "

'' No."

But your friend, Mrs. Reichardt, must
have it. I am going to write to him. I
ought to have done it before. If I give
you a letter, will you get her to send it
on to him ? "

Why trouble to do that ? " said I with
great composure. '' I am going to see
him myself. I am going to come to some
understanding about my own future. .1
have been made wretched by the false
position I am in. Write your letter and
give it to me, and I will myself take
charge of it, and give it into his own hands.
Then the whole thing can be settled at
once."

I can't understand sou. You have
been so determined against me, and yet
you will give him this letter ! I will tell
you the truth about it. I shall ask him

in it to use all his influence in my favour,
because I know he has so much influence
over you. Now, what do you say ? "

What I said before. I will give him
the letter. It will make no difference  .
none at all."

I cannot help hoping that it will make
a difference," said Maurice, the look of
determination which I knew so well settling
on his pale face.

It had cost me many a pang, that
resolute expression. I had seen it so
often, since the day on which I had refused
him absolutely ; and he, equally absolutely,
had told me that until he knew I
was another man's wife, he would never
give me up. I made no reply to his last
words, but again said I would take the
letter and faithfully deliver it into Felix's
own hands. He sent it to me on the
following morning. I looked at it all

round, from its address to ' Felix Arkwright,
Esq. ; favoured by Miss Grey,' to the
big red seal with the coat-of-arms, which
fastened it. Curious, I thought, that I
should be the bearer of such a missive.
Some months ago I should have been afraid
to assume the responsibility ; I should have
done all I could to avert the sending of
such a letter ; but now I felt as if I did
not care anything about it ; only I would
give it honestly into Felix's hands. I
packed it carefully away with other papers.
There it might lie till the time came to
discuss it.

Maurice did not call to say good-bye,
but wrote a note, wishing me enjoyment.
There was a certain severity about this
note, as, indeed, there was about all that
Maurice said and did. Always I felt in
my intercourse with him that he looked
upon me as a thing to be not only loved

very much  for I knew he loved me  but
also improved in many ways. There was
constantly some disapproval implied in his
dealings with me, and it was this faultfinding
attitude which exasperated me
more than anything else. I knew what
he wanted, that his standard was high in
all matters ; but what I objected to was the
fact that it was his standard which he
wanted every one else to conform to. His
wife, I felt sure, when, or if ever he had
one, would have very soon to desert any
standard of her own and conform to his.
Such compulsion set all my feelings into
a state of rebellion. I would never conform
to his standard. I would five his
letter to Felix, and listen to his praises,
if need be ; but I would never love him
any better, nor submit to his will any more
than I did now. And with this resolve,
I packed the matter out of my mind as

I packed the letter into my trunk, and
thought of it as Httle as possible.

Elisabeth's orders to me were  to get
all I wanted as quickly as possible, and
go down to Irkford to her, that we might
have a few days together before sailing.
My views as to an outfit were very
moderate. I merely thought of purchasing
two or three garments supplementary to
my existing wardrobe. Madame Prenat
was more particular. When I expostulated,
she told me she knew what she was doing,
and was acting on the best authority. I
felt it to be a trifle, and submitted. I cut
down the " few days " with Elisabeth as
much as possible ; not because I did not
wish to be with her, but because the Professor
made loud lamentations over being
robbed of my services, and therefore I
stayed with him as long as I could.

I had a touching parting from him and

VOL. HI. 49

Mrs. Willoughby. The latter, a little fat,
jolly woman, with a mania for lapdogs
and expensive dressing-gowns of gorgeous
design, kissed me, congratulated me on
my prospects of travel, and told me to
enjoy myself while I could.

Amuse yourself," said she. '' I begin
to see wrinkles on your forehead already,
and it is too early for them to be there.
Forget all about your horrid, dry work.
He will have plenty of it ready for you
when you return. If I had not Rode and
Coco "  her two spaniels  '' to console me,
dear creatures !  what a dismal life I
should lead. Never marry a professor of
the oriental languages, Ines ! This advice
comes from my heart."

'' Ah, unworthy, unworthy advice ! " cried
her husband, who had got into a singular
frame of mind, had pushed his spectacles
back till they rested on the top of his

head, and had then forgotten that he had
done so. He held my hand for some time,
struggling with mixed feelings. At length
he placed his left hand on my head, and
said in solemn tones 

God bless you, and keep you, my good
child, and be with you in the New World
as in the Old, and make you bear your old
teacher in your remembrance."

He paused. So solemn were his words,
so impressive his tone, that my head sank ;
I was so moved by his fatherly kindness,
that I was on the verge of bursting into
tears. Mrs. Willoughby, who, in reality,
was inordinately proud of her husband
and his attainments, drew long breaths
of emotion as she watched this scene.
Suddenly, in a different voice, he added 

'' And if by any chance you should find
an opportunity of learning anything  anything
at all fresh on the subject of the

Indian dialects  no matter which of them,
do not neglect it, I implore you. Never
be without your note-book, and take every
occasion to profit by what you hear."

I will ; I will, indeed," I assured him,
wringing his hand ; and half-laughing, half-crying,
I once more wished them " Goodbye,"
and left the house.

That evening Elisabeth met me at
Irkford, and a very few days later, she
and Mr. Reichardt, her maid, and myself,
full of anticipations of new and exciting
scenes, embarked in the good ship Caspian
for the port of Baltimore.

Lines WRITES.

Steaming past the coasts of New Jersey,
and . Delaware, and Maryland, at last we
steamed first into and then up Chesapeake
Bay, and past the world-known spats
whose names even yet have power to
thrill, and will retain that power for countless
generations ; past Fortress Munroe
and Fort Mac Henry ; all day long, till it
grew dark, and as we went sailing by the
smiling shore of Anne Arundel county, or
as a native Baltimore on board persisted
to our great bewilderment in calling it,
Annie 'Candle county," it was deep
twilight and, before we landed, there was

nothings to be seen but multitudes of
shimmering lights, rising higher and higher
in lines and tiers and terraces of the
beautiful city ; and against the clear dark
sky masses of buildings, some of those
near at hand, which loomed upon us like
giant towers rising high into the heavens,
out of the very water itself, we afterwards
discovered to be nothing more romantic
than " grain elevators." But before us in
the distance these buildings represented
the streets, the warehouses, the churches,
and the monuments of the capital of
'' Maryland, my Maryland."

How strange it all was, after the voyage !
It seemed to me as if that had been the
reality, and this were a dream  this sudden
bustle, this proximity to firm ground ; the
hurrying crowds, the shining, grinning
negro faces, the cries, the calls, the hubbub.
It was after eight o'clock at night, and we

Stood on deck, waiting for we hardly knew
what, and silent in the midst of the tumult.
Elisabeth suddenly said 

'' Father ! Ines! a thought has just struck
me. If that unhappy man is singing anywhere
to-night he won't be here to meet
us. He cannot, you know. And, of
course, he will be singing somewhere.
Did you ever know such a miserable
idea ? We shall just have to look out for
ourselves." 

I never thought of that," said I blankly.

Nor I, until this very moment. Look !
here's the tug, I expect  tender, or whatever
it is  coming for us. If he is coming,
he will be on it. Stand here. We can
see each person who passes."

I did not speak, but with my heart
beating violently I did as I was bidden 
stood still and looked, till at last I saw
a face which I felt as if I knew, and yet

did not know. I must have seen that face
before, and yet it was so strangely altered.
I was puzzled. Then I saw that Elisabeth
made a quick step forward.

Mr. Holoate ! here we are. Has he
sent you to meet us ? "

Mr. Holgate ! My agitation ceased. I
did not know whether I was most relieved
or most disappointed. I remembered now
all about him. It was our host at Moor
Isles, of whose fortunes and misfortunes
Elisabeth had one day during our voyage
given me a long account, to which I had
not paid as much attention as I ought to
have done. But I had dimly gathered
that for some reason or other he was out
here with Felix, as his secretary and " help."
He stepped forward now, lifting his hat
and smiling at us.

'' Yes, Mrs. Reichardt. He is singing
to-night at the Academy of Music. The

concert began at eight, and so he could
not come to meet you. He was awfully
disappointed, but he sent me, and I hope
you'll let me do anything I can for you."

'ewe shall be only too thankful," said
she, with the tact and kindness which
never failed her. She rightly divined that
the young man, though he put a good
face on the matter, felt himself to be no
efficient substitute, except as a mere assistant
in getting our things together, for
the person whom we all wanted to see ;
and she had time, even in the midst of her
disappointment, to do and say all kinds of
pleasant things calculated to make him
imagine that his presence and assistance
were quite invaluable to us. Felix often
told her that she made fools of people in
this way ; but I have always thought it
exceedingly pleasant to be thus made a
fool of At her cordial words Brian

Holgate brightened up wonderfully, found
our things for us, and I heard him telling
Elisabeth that Felix had taken rooms for
us at the St. James's Hotel, where he
himself was staying, that he was coming
to us the instant the concert was over,
and that he hoped we should not all be
fast asleep by the time he got in.

It seemed a long and tedious business
before we and our belongings at length
were bestowed in the shelter of an uncommonly
comfortable hotel. Felix had
engaged a private sitting-room for us.

"He said he did not want his first
meeting with you to take place in the
reception room," said Brian Holgate,
laughing. And after he had done all he
could for us he went away, saying he
would go to the Academy of Music, see
Felix in the interval, and report our safe
arrival.

** Give him our love," said Elisabeth,
'* and tell him to hurry up. We are very
tired."

He departed. We went downstairs to
sup, with a feeling of disappointment atour
hearts, in spite of the charm of novelty
over everything  in spite of the array of
delightful little dishes and plates and
saucers which collected around each of us,
more American,

We supped, and returned to our sitting-room.
The lamps in the street were
lighted, the night was mild and balmy, a
delicious air came in at the window. I
went towards it. I hardly heard or, rather,
hardly heeded Elisabeth's sigh of fatigue,
as she said 

Well, I'm going to see what Bolton is
doing, if she has got under weigh with her
unpacking. Ten o'clock  half-past ten, I
declare. Surely he can't be much longer."

I had prone to the window and, kneeling
down before it, I gazed out upon the
street. The sky and the great luminous
stars, so huge and so near-looking, were
above ; below, the cobble-stoned street,
the rattling tram-cars jingling along, white
people strolling, coloured ones strutting
about in the night air. A coloured waiter
had brought a lamp, and set it on the
centre table, and In his plaintive voice had
warned us against lifting the mosquito net
that hung before the window; but, heedless
of the precaution, I moved It a little
to one side, and leaned out, and thought
and wondered.

It seemed as If I had been but a short
time there, when on an Instant I became
conscious of the presence of some one
behind me. I had heard no sound  there
was too much noise from the street below.
I do not know how or why I became

aware of this presence, for I did not even
know that I was alone. Instinctively I
remained where I was, without turning or
moving.

Then a hand was placed on my shoulder,
and the voice of Felix spoke my name.

Ines  all alone?"

I quickly rose to my feet, and looked at
him in silence, but saw at a glance that
the room was empty save for us two. He
was looking at me with a smile  a kind
and welcoming smile, such as I had
hundreds of times received from him
before ; pleasure and good-will were in
this smile, and his hand slid from my
shoulder downwards, till it reached my
hand and held it. And, as he looked, a
change came over his face and into his
eyes. The smile died away. Profound
gravity succeeded it. He did not follow
up his first words by any others, but

simply looked at me, till I at last found
voice, and said softly 

'' Yes ; I did not know they had gone
out of the room. So I am the first to see
you, Monsieur Felix, after all ! "

And I looked at him, smiling too ; while
he still held my hand. He made no reply
at all for some little time ; but at last said,
in a voice totally different from that in
which he had first greeted me 

*' How you are changed  how you are
changed ! "

Am I ? Nobody else has said so.
You are not. You look just the same as
when I last saw you."

I dare say. Two years, at my time
of life, do not make the difference that they
do at yours."

To this I had nothing to reply. But
I wished he would loose my hand, for it
seemed to me as if every finger must

betray by Its pulsation the wild beating
of my heart. But he did not loose my
hand ; he stood still, and looked at me,
and seemed to have forgotten that there
could be anything to say. As for me, as
I stood there, I realized, without putting
it into words, that whatever might have
been the ostensible object of my journey
hither ; whatever Lisa and I might have
said to ourselves or to each other about
my seeing Felix, and getting my future
course settled, and so forth ; In this
moment  I could not disguise It from
myself, it was the most overwhelming
one of my life  I knew that it had been
better for my peace of mind never to have
seen him again ; better to have stayed in
London, and battled down disappointment
and monotony ; and, if necessary, to have
dismissed Maurice periodically, till his
pride or his common sense should have
VOL. III. ;o

disgusted him with the part he was playing.
This I knew  knew, too, what the
feeling had been which, slumbering deep
down in my heart, and not awakened by
proximity to Felix, had yet filled me with
that horror of even listening to Maurice,
which had so mortified him ; had so
surprised both Madame Prenat and Elisabeth,,
by what they thought its exaggerated
nature. It takes some time to write it all
down ; it took not a minute to possess
itself of my mind. The revelation was
made ; henceforth, whatever others might
think, I knew.

And at last I made a little movement
to withdraw my hand from his. Then, all
at once, he started slightly, gave a half
laugh, and said 

Pray forgive my standing and staring
at you in this way. As I told you, I find
you changed. Come and sit dov/n hereon

this * lounge,' as they call it here ; " and
he led me to a sofa which stood near the
window, and placed me on it ; and then,
half seating himself on the edge of a table,
he said, " It seems so absurd to keep
repeating the same thing, but I do really
believe you have grown taller. I am
sure you were not so tall when  that day
we went up to London together. Do you
remember ? "

'' Yes, I remember. I have not measured
my height since then," I said, smiling.
"And I hope, as I am so much changed,
that you find me improved too."

At this the inexplicably grave and surprised,
almost puzzled, expression disappeared
from his face. He laughed.

'' That question is much more like the
Ines of my former acquaintance than anything
that I have yet seen or heard from
you. Improved ? Oh, certainly ; at least,

I think so. By the way," he added
suddenly, and looking keenly at me, '' did
you see my letter to Lisa about your
coming here ? "

''No; I have seen no letters, except
the one she wrote me, inviting me to come
with her."

Oh ! " He looked relieved and, at the
same time, amused. " Of course, she
always knows exactly the right thing todo
or not to do. And you had a pleasant
voyage, I hope ? "

I suppose so. I don't quite see the
joys of an ocean passage in a floating
palace, but I think it was a good voyage."

At any rate, you have arrived safely.
And you are prepared to enjoy yourself
here ? "

- I 

I came to a sudden pause. Enjoyment
was not exactly what had been in my

thoughts. Excitement, perhaps, discussion,
and the making straight of crooked
paths. But was that enjoyment ? And
now I knew that emotion, agitation, self-repression,
would take a large share in my
life over here. But I did not see my way
to enjoyment  not to enjoyment of a calm
and serene kind, at any rate. I was saved
from the pain of having to give what
might seem an ungracious answer. The
door was opened, and Elisabeth was with
us.

'' Ines, you might have told me he was
here ! " she exclaimed, coming forward.

Covered with confusion, I was silent, as
I stood up.

That is a pretty kind of greeting, after
all this time ! " said Felix, shaking both
her hands long and heartily. " Well,
Lisa, this is a ' sight for sir been.' I
should have known you, at any rate, anywhere.

As to Ines, I have been trying to
make out who she is."

Oh, you find her changed," said Elisabeth,
carelessly. " I don't see that you
need be so much surprised at that. Do
you know, I began to think you were
never coming. They must give inordinately
long concerts In this country."
'' Not so very long; but they don't care
for anything that begins early. I suppose
the white people go to bed some time
or other, but I don't think the carries
ever do."

'well," said she, ''I am but a mortal
woman. I've been having some of my
things unpacked, with a view to getting
into bed with the greatest possible speed,
as soon as I should have seen you. Well,
how are you ? You look well  you do
look well, Felix. Your hard work has
done you no harm, at any rate. And here

we all are  together ! Can you believe
it ? "

Hardly," said he, in a tone of satisfaction,
as he looked from one to the other
of us. " It is almost too good to be true.
You are true to your resolution, Lisa ; you
do not change."

Of course not. Did I not always tell
you I never meant to grow old ? Then
you found no one here but I nes ? "

'' Not a soul. Where is your father ?*"

*' Gone to bed, poor dear. He could
not keep awake any longer. It would
have been an iniquity to try to make him
sit up. He'll see you tomorrow. And I
am tired to death. But you two  you
both look quite fresh. Yet I nes must be
as tired as I am."

*' I am not tired," said I ; and, indeed,
I had never felt fatigue further away
from me.

We all sat down then, despite Elisabeth's
weariness, she and I side by side upon the
sofa, and Felix opposite to us in a chair.
I left them to do the talking. I had
nothing to say. Elisabeth had a thousand
questions to ask. How long was he in
Baltimore ? To that he replied that he
was not singing there any more just at
present. His manager said that not half
the people had yet returned from the sea
and mountain resorts, to which they fled
from the summer heats. Winter  the
depth of winter -was the proper social
season in this city. He was not sorry for
this. He had declined to make any
engagements at all for the next fortnight.
He would go with us wherever we liked.
It was still hot, but he was so pleased with
this semi-southern town, and with the
people he had met in and about it, that
he was loath to leave the neighbourhood.

But the question of pelf ? " began
Elisabeth.

*' Pelf be hanged ! I have been studying
that question ever since I came here.
Yes, Ines, I have, in spite of your look
when I say so. Now you are here, all of
you, let us forget filthy lucre for a time,
and go In for enjoying ourselves."

'' And Brian Holgate ? " said she.

Felix smiled. " Brian Holgate has
been quite a success," said he ; "at atiy
rate, so far as I am concerned. I mean, I
made a good bargain, whatever he did.
No man ever had a more devoted retainer
than I have found in him. He is almost
painfully conscientious in the discharge of
his duties, and he has such tact and feeling,
you know ; it is quite wonderful. His
friend Alice said I should not repent
bringing him, and she was right. But
there's something about the lad's manner

which Is not quite satisfactory to me after
all  a sort of smouldering look in his eyes
sometimes, and a mechanical way of going
about his business. What nonsense, is it
not, Ines ? " he finished, suddenly turning
and speaking quickly to me.

*' It is very interesting," said I, with a
deep sigh. '' I am glad he is grateful."

'will he be with us ? " asked Elisabeth.

Not all the time. He has some friends
of his own. But you won't object to his
coming now and then, will you ? "

Felix  no ! Only where are we going ?
We haven't heard that yet."

'' Well, I have made a plan. I don't
know how you will like it. Instead of
rushing you round to all sorts of show
places, I thought it would be pleasant to
go off quietly somewhere and stay. It
will be lovely now at Front Royal, in Virginia.
Some people whom I know and

like very much live down there. They
would put us all up, if we would go, but
we won't tax their hospitality to that
extent. There's a very fair inn, of an old-fashioned
kind, not far away from their
place. Not so fine, perhaps, as one at
Saratoga, or Newport, or Narraganset, but
much more interesting. The country is
splendid, and the autumn will be delicious.
Shall we go, say the day after tomorrow,
when you have looked about here* a
little, and be as idle as we please down
there ? "

"What do you say, Ines?" she asked
kindly, laying her hand on mine.

"I think it would be delightful," I
replied, earnestly and honestly.

'just lovely," Felix amended my words.
'* Very well. Soil ! Meantime, you must
go to bed, and awake rested and refreshed.
To-morrow I will show you what there is

to be seen in this city, and the day after
we'll be off."

He rose, and so did we.

Do you mean," asked Elisabeth, suddenly,
" that there was no one to listen to
your singing to-night ? "

No, I don't mean that. There were
plenty of people  most excitable and
appreciative people ; but  oh ! I shall be
glad to get away from it for a time ; and I
can finish here some day, when you are all
travelling somewhere else."

We separated, and I went to my room,
feeling sleep very far from me indeed.
For hours I lay awake, hardly hearing
the sounds which arose from the street
below through my open window, for, as
Felix had said, some part of the population
did not seem to go to bed at all,
and on this warm, scented night of Indian
summer, I think there was scarce an hours

silence throughout. But I heeded not the
disturbance. My thoughts were far otherwise
occupied. The voyage, and even
our arrival, seemed swept clean from my
mind. All I could think of was  this,
then, is our meeting, after two years'
absence ! So changed  so changed. '' How
you are changed ! " Yes, it was Indeed
true. I felt it sweep across me with an
overwhelming sense of conviction. I
realized It ; that was not the same thing
as knowing It. Was I actually the same
being who had taken leave of him  no,
of whom he had taken leave  that afternoon
In Madame Prenat's drawing-room .
No. He was just the same, as I saw.
Not a line, not a glance, not a tone of his
voice had altered ; but I  I was pacing
restlessly up and down my room. suddenly
I stopped, and laid my hand over
my heart, trying to still Its ache ; and I

said to myself, not in so many words but
deep down in my mind, that I had grown
into a woman, with emotions, with capabilities
of love and hatred, of pain and
passion, so strong that I feared to let
them fully reveal themselves, even to
myself. And now, as before, with the
woman as with the girl, it was the same
thing  the man who had been the idol
of my childish heart, and the hero of my
schoolgirl enthusiasms, was the same man
before whom my woman's soul bowed,
that so it would be always he, and no
other. I felt, too, with this developed
strength of love and worship had come
also strength of will. My secret was
mine. It should remain mine. I would
be mistress of myself and of my feelings
during this time that we were to be
together. And after it was all over, and
I was back again in London, there would

always be  Madame Prenat and the Professor.
As I came to that conclusion, I
smiled a little to myself, but the calm
brought by my resolution remained with
me.

CHAPTER II.

COMING TO AN UNDERSTANDING.

I DID not forget the letter which I had
promised Maurice to deliver Into Felix's
own hands. But I admit that I delayed
giving It to him  delayed opening up the
conversation to which Its production must
necessarily give rise. I did not feel,
during the two or three days of our
sojourn in Baltimore, that there was any
reasonable opportunity of bringing It out.
Our time was filled to overflowing with
sight-seeing, driving, sailing down the bay,
visiting Annapolis and Mount Vernon, and
with other amusements. I could not persuade
myself to intrude my affairs Into the

midst of it all. Elisabeth, I have reason
now to think, knew very well what my
state of mind was. At any rate, she knew
of my promise to Maurice about the letter,
and she gave neither word nor sign on the
subject. From Baltimore we moved on to
Washington, and spent a night and nearly
two days there ; we had Introductions, and
we were busy and engaged the whole
time.

But at last all this was over. We had,
by means of train and " stage," got conveyed
to the place Felix was so anxious
for us to go to, and in a very short time
we felt perfectly at home, as If we had
been there for months ; and the life
of utter laziness, of which he had spoken
with such enthusiasm, began. Very much
we all liked It. It was truly delicious,
this basking for hours at a time under
the shade of the sunny piazza which ran

VOL. III. 51

all round the house. As the sun moved,
so moved we, keeping ourselves in the
shade, and as much as possible out of the
reach of mosquitoes. We talked and
laughed and read, and had a good time
of it generally. There we could sit and
look forth into the dim blue distance
towards the south ;

O magnet south ; O glistening, perfumed south,"
SO full of witchery and attraction. A
golden mist shimmered over all the fertile
land ; the great blue mountains rose quite
near to us, and, nearer still, wooded hills,
with here and there the "gaps," as they
called them, which let us see into the
distance I have mentioned. Quite near
was an old house, where those friends of
Felix's lived of whom he had spoken tous
 an old house haunted with memories
and associations, tragic, comic, pathetic,
for those who knew. We were often

there, and learnt what Virginian hospitality
meant. Occasionally, under the impression
that it was not quite so hot as usual, we
summoned up energy enough to hire some
kind of a rough native carriage or " stage "
and team, and under flapping canvas
covers drove to some place of interest 
battle-field or other historic spot, anywhere
within a range of twenty miles. Every
inch of this ground had been fought for
generally more than once  savagely,
fiercely, tenaciously fought for ; and though
we all conceded the right to the North in
that struggle, I think our fancy and imaginations
were captives to this South.
Certainly, our affections were engaged by
the people we met there ; and we revelled
in the calm and yet novel pleasures of the
life we led amongst these, to us, strange
surroundings. Interviews did not penetrate
there ; indeed, as Felix thankfully

acknowledged, his battles with them were
over. The novelty of his appearance had
worn off, and he would know them no
more, until they flocked around him on
his departure, to ask what he thought of
them and their great country. We had
no interviews, but we had concerts and
dancing, and games and amusements in
abundance, in the 'parlours" of the hotel,
greatly assisted therein by sundry dark-eyed
and fascinating Virginian and Carolinian
maidens and young matrons, with
the mankind belonging to them  an abject,
but thoroughly happy race, the latter
appeared to be. It was all new, bright,
very sweet and delightful, and I delayed
in a cowardly manner the giving of the
letter, till a day came when my conscience
smote me, and I could put it off no longer
a day, in fact, on which I myself received
a letter from Maurice, in which he told me

he had been thinking every day of my
promise ; that he supposed long ere this
his letter was in Mr. Arkwright's hands ;
perhaps even a reply to it on its vay to
him. Then I felt, with shame and mortification,
that I had behaved badly, and must
at once amend.

But I lacked the courage, for all my
confidence in my own strength of will, to
go to Felix and straightway demand an
interview with him. In fact, his manner,
as I interpreted it, had hardly been encouraging
to such a course. I could no
longer complain that he treated me as a
child : he treated me as a very grown-up
person indeed, with a gravity and a
ceremony which irked and embarrassed
me, and made me very decidedly afraid to
attack him with this precious piece of
business of mine.

I resorted to my usual counsellor, Elisabeth,

and confided the state of things to
her.

*' I ought to have given him the letter
before," said I. ''I must do it to-day. I
feel as if I couldn't wait another hour."

Well, child, give it to him, then."

But I have more to do than that," said
I, wishing she would see how serious a
business it was. '' I shall have to tell
him my ideas about Maurice, and hear
his."

"Yes, certainly." Elisabeth's eyes were
veiled from my sight, her hands trifled
with a lace scarf that lay across her knee.
The slightest possible twitch at the corners
of her mouth made me wonder what she
thought of it all. '' Yes, you must settle
all that. You must do it to-day. If you
like, I will tell him that you want to speak
to him."

'' Oh, if you would ! " I cried fervently.

*' And if I were only sure I should speak
sense ! "

*' Oh yes. Why not ? You have to a
certain extent a ' level head,' my dear.
Did I tell you of that Yankee who was
talking to me yesterday, and told me of a
flighty friend of his who had a 'hurry
lovely, level-headed wife,' who very often
kept him straight ? "

Oh, dear, how absurd ! " I said, unable
to relish the joke properly in my anxiety.

We were alone in our sitting-room  a
spacious upstairs room, with three doors,
leading respectively into Elisabeth's and
my bedrooms, and into the passage, or
*' hall," as they always called it. It was
five o'clock in the afternoon, and, almost
as we finished speaking, the door was
opened and Felix himself came in.

Oh ! " said he, pausing and looking at
us. I was standing ; Elisabeth was seated.

I had by now begun to be accustomed. If
not reconciled, to the gravity of his look
when it rested upon me. I could not help
feeling, sometimes, as if it amounted to
coldness. On this particular occasion his
eyes fell directly upon me, and I felt a
chill of depression seize me, for it seemed
to me as if that look were colder than I
had ever seen it before. Though I had
told Elisabeth that I felt as if I could not
wait another hour, yet I was somewhat
dismayed when she, with the prompt and
cheerful manner of one who is arranging
something disagreeable to be done by
some one else, said briskly  

Felix  the very person who is wanted.
Ines is anxious for a business interview
with you. She is the bearer of an important
document for your perusal, and
she wishes your advice thereupon."

** A document  an interview ? I am

quite at your service," said he, very coldly,
it seemed to me, and my heart sank lower.

Then I'll leave you," said Elisabeth.
'' I promised Mrs. van Bibber to go to her
room about this time. Azc revoir

She rose, looked at us both with a
benevolent smile, waved her hand and her
lace scarf, and was gone.

Felix pulled a chair forward for me.

*well, Ines.?"

*' I must get the letter. Wait orfe
moment," said I, retreating into my room
for the document. Alas ! it was all too
easily accessible. I could not keep him
waiting. I was back again in an instant.

*what letter is it?" he asked me
politely, but not very enthusiastically.

How bored he was, I felt, by the whole
business. And how I hated to bore him !
Courage, then, and get it over as quickly
as possible.

'' It Is a letter which Maurice Grey, my
cousin, gave me for you  at least, he said
he was going to write to you, and I offered to
bring it and deliver it to you. Here it is."

I stretched out my hand, and he took
the letter very slowly, and looked at It
without opening it.

'' To deliver it at your own time, it
seems," he said, with a slight smile.

'' I often thought of it, but I was so
afraid of teasing you with it," said I,
choking down my confusion, and speaking
drily and steadily.

Well," he said, still not opening it, ashe
looked at me, " Lisa has told me something
about this, Ines. I suppose I have
known something about it for a good
while. She says your cousin wants you to
marry him."

He says so," was my almost inaudible
reply.

*' She says, too, that you are  averse to
doing so."

'eyes," I said; and wished I had the
courage to look at him and say I would
rather die than marry Maurice.

'' Hem ! And what have you against
him ? "

"There Is nothing against him. It Is
only "

Only ? "

I don't love him."

** Oh ! And you have told him so ? "

*' Yes."

And he Is unreasonable enough to
persist ? "

'* Yes. Oh, Is It not unreasonable of
him ? " I cried, looking up excitedly. I
met the same alien expression, not Inviting
to confidence, not offering comfort, and a
slight smile as well, which cut me to the
quick.

Very unreasonable, no doubt," he said,
slowly breaking the seal of the letter.
'' But I think you should take into consideration
that such unreasonableness
betokens some force of character and
power of will ; and you should also ask
yourself whether your aversion is as
rational as it appears to be strong."

I did not speak. I could never give
the real reason of my intense aversion to
Maurice. I could only say I did not love
him. He read the letter, slowly and carefully,
and then, turning to me, asked me
if I knew its contents.

''He told me he should write and ask
you to use your influence for him."

*' In this he tells me exactly the state of
his affairs, and that he has his grandfather s
consent if he can get yours. It is the
letter of a man of mind and character."

*' Yes, he has mind and character."

*sand don't you like mind and
character ? "

** Very much. I do not care for
Maurice."

*yet I think you ought to consider it
seriously."

'' I have considered it till I hate the
name of it. Do you mean that you would
be pleased if I married him ? "

I think you would have an unusually
good prospect of happiness. There is
nothing trivial or light about this letter.
He writes from a firm purpose. I have
never heard anything but good, very great
good, of him. And it would unite you to
your own people in the most satisfactory
way."

All this in the same grave, judicial, and
impartial tones, as he tapped the letter
on the table now and then, and having
finished, looked at me, but not in a manner

that encouraged me to approach any
nearer.

All at once, a wildly reckless feeling
came over me. I felt as if it did not
matter in the least what became of me.
After all, who and what was I that I
should look for happiness as for a right ?
My happiness consisted in the love and
approval of Felix and of Elisabeth. It
was not that I did not prize the good-will
of others, but no good-will of others, could
make up for the loss of theirs. If Felix,
in the face of my strongly expressed aversion,
could still urge me to consider this
marriage well before refusing it, could
persist in bidding me do so, had not one
word to say as to any wish of his own in
the matter, no sign to give whether he
cared anything about it or not, what did it
matter what I thought ? He approved.
After all, it was not only I who had

changed in these two years ; he had
become a stranger to me, he made a
stranger of me. I did not feel angry or
offended with him. I felt my heart aching
over it all, grieving, expostulating with
fate, not with him. His attitude in the
matter shook my strong resolution to act
independently. As I stood there, I felt
my will waver somewhat.

'' And do you think I ought to be united
to my own people ? " I asked, feeling that
if the Greys were my own people, and he
and Elisabeth were not, then the world
was out of joint, and I had no clue whatever
by which to guide my steps.

Yes'' said he, slowly, " I think a great
deal ought to be sacrificed to cement a
union of that kind. I think it is hard on
Mr. Grey for you to continuously hold
aloof from him."

(Just what Elisabeth had said.)

But surely I could do a great deal
that Mr. Grey wishes, without marrying
Maurice."

Picture to yourself whether you would
have a very comfortable time, trying to
please Mr. Grey, and riot married to
Maurice ! "

And you would approve of It, and
agree to it, \i I were to marry him ? "

Very slowly indeed he answered, and
to each word my heart seemed to give an
answering throb 

'rit would be impossible for me to disapprove."


'' Then," said I, without pausing an
instant, " I had better accept him. Anything
is less horrible than continual
wrangling. I will go and do it at once."

But I looked at him once again to ascertain
if he really meant what he said, and
my depression and wretchedness were only

deepened by the sight of his expression
of bored and weary indifference. He
leaned back in his chair, and threw his
head back, passing his hand over his eyes
and giving a deep sigh. Let it be my
part to put an end to the scene as speedily
as possible. As he did not reply to my
last desperate words, I said, after a short
pause 

'will you wait just five minutes? I
should like to settle it now. Do soit
mind ? I am so sorry to give you so
much trouble ; but if I do it at once It will
be done, and I shall not have to think so
much about It."

I am at your service till you have
settled everything to your satisfaction."

To my satisfaction ! " I ejaculated, as
I went past him towards my own room.

He rose as I passed his chair, and
suddenly said to me 

VOL. HI. C2

Ines ! "
'' Yes ? "

My hand was on the door-handle and
I wanted no delay, but I forced myself
to turn and listen. There was so long a
pause, that at last I looked again. I saw
that his face had become quite pale, and
he looked at me with an expression which
I could not understand.

'' I can only tell you what I think is for
your good," said he. " I offer no advice.
You are not a child any more. A woman
must decide this kind of thing for herself.
Do not think I wish our  friendship to beat
an end."

I did not think that. I had more to
say about it at another time ; but the
sudden return to a kindlier tone almost
overpowered me. I took his hand, said
earnestly, " I think that you are, as you
always have been, kind and generous tome."

And, giving his hand a little shake,
I went into my room, sat down at the
writing-table, and in less than ten minutes
rose up again.

During this short space of time I had
recovered all my determination ; my mind
had emerged from the tumult into which
it had for a short time been cast. I had
had time and strength to be  I felt it
in my inmost heart  true to myself, to
Maurice, and to Felix. That which a few
moments ago had seemed so hopelessly
entangled, had all at once become quite
clear and simple.

I returned to the parlour, and found
Felix sitting in the same chair he had
been in throughout our interview. I
walked up to him and held out the
letter.

That is what I have said to Maurice.
Will you please read it ? "

He took It reluctantly.

** Why should I read it? If you have
accepted him  that is all I need to
know."

Please, Monsieur Felix, will you read
my letter ? "

Then he read It slowly and deliberately,
and I stood before him, waiting in some
apprehension for his expression of displeasure
to return. I did not mind it so
much now, though. It would soon be
over, the whole hateful business. But all
my feelings had been, and in some
respects still were, strung up to the
highest pitch of tension, and I can hardly
describe what I felt when, after he had
read it at least twice through, I saw a
broad smile come over his face  a smile
which he tried to hide by putting his hand
before his mouth. He said nothing for
some time, but at last looked up at me.

The smile was gone from his Hps, at any
rate, but I could detect no displeasure in
his expression.

*' Souvent femme varied' he remarked.
'' I don't know whether I have read aright.

o

If I have, I think you have played a
practical joke upon me which I cannot
condemn too strongly. At any rate, dome
the favour to read this letter aloud tome.
I want to find out whether my ears
and my eyesight agree." And he offered
it to me.

Oh no ; do not ask me to do that."
*' I don't ask you ; I bid you. I am nota
revengeful man, but no one likes to be
made a complete fool of I think that
what I desire you to do, is a mild punishment
for what you have done. Yes ; read
it, please.

Unable to understand him, I took the
letter, and in a small voice, and with a far

from impressive manner, read aloud what
I had written : 

'' * Dear Maurice,

** * I have only to-day given your
letter to Mr. Arkwrlght. You must
pardon the seeming neglect. I have never
forgotten It, but I had not a suitable
opportunity before. He has read It and,
as you expected, he has said a great deal
for you. He would very strongly approve
of my being engaged to you. But, with
his usual kindness, he leaves me quite free
to decide finally In the matter. I can
only tell you what I have told you before
I cannot and I will not marry you. It
would be to do you a wrong, and to make
me miserable for life. I know It. Please
consider this answer as final. I hope we
shall always be friends, but I think we had
better not meet each other for some time

to come. When I come home, I shall
return to Professor Willoughby and my
work with him. He says I never need
be afraid of not finding plenty of employment
with him or his friends. It is a life
which will suit me exactly. I cannot do
what you wish. Do not ask me again.
If you should  I am sorry to seem hard,
but it is the best  I shall not answer you.
' Your cousin,

' Ines Grey.' " *

Ah," said he, when I had finished, '' I
was not wandering, then, in my mind, after
all. But it still appears almost incredible
to me. I always had an idea that you
were a person to be depended upon  not
so wonderfully changeable as all that.
What, in heaven's name, made you veer
round from north to south, so to speak, in
less than ten minutes ? "

'' When you spoke," said I, '' I felt very
unhappy. I thought I saw that you would
be glad if I would be sensible and make
things easy for every one; that I was a
trouble to you, as I have been a trouble
to myself, since this began. But when I
had sat down to write, I remembered what
I have said in the letter  that it would be
to do a wrongs to him and to make mea
miserable woman. And I remembered
your own words to me," I added steadily.
Perhaps you have forgotten them, but
I never have : ' Walk straight,' you said,
and you'll come out all right in the end.'
I should not have been walking straight
if I had done that, and I should have
had to walk crooked all the rest of my
life, too. So I knew all in a moment
what was the right thing to do, and I
did it."

I stopped, out of breath from this long

harangue, and feeling my heart grow
lighter every moment.

*' Very well argued ! " said he, and there
was less constraint in his tones, too. *' I
will grant you all that. I don't want you
to marry the lad to be miserable. But, as
you have plenty of arguments of your own
against him, it was but fair that I should
give you some in his favour. I see,
however, you are not to be moved. So,
when you get home again, you propose fo
leave me, and set up for yourself ? "

''If that is how you put it."

That is how I put it, and it seems tome
it is the correct way, too. But I think
you have forgotten one or two things.
You are only just over nineteen  not your
own mistress, therefore, for nearly two
more years. Suppose I forbade you todo
any such thing ? "

*' You won't forbid me'*

And why not ? "

' Because you are not a tyrant, and ygu
don't want me to be unhappy."

'sand you would be unhappy if I said
I wished things to go on for some time
longer just as they always have done ? "

That would show you to be more
changeable than you thought I was. Ten
minutes ago you wished me to marry
Maurice. How could you, at the same
time, wish things to go on as they always
have done ? '

*' That is certainly one for you. It
seems to me that the Professor has been
teaching you to chop logic, amongst other
accomplishments. No, I do not wish you
to be unhappy ; nor do I desire to tyrannize
over you. But perhaps you will allow mea
shred or two of authority still ; and I say,
quite seriously, that you must not make
these important plans in such a hurry."

'* Ah, Monsieur Felix, it is not in a
hurry. I have been thinking about them
for a long time. I have had to think
about them. How could I tell you anything
when I was strictly forbidden to write
or even send a message to you ? "

'' Child, I do not blame you. I think you
have come out of it well. There is time
enough before us now in which to discuss
the future. Another time we will speak
of it. Meanwhile, do not arrange everything
in your own mind on the implicit
idea that I want to get rid of you as
quickly as possible. And give me that
letter. I will write to your cousin, and
can enclose it in mine."

Do you think," I said, with some
embarrassment, '' that he would like the
idea of your having read it, when I "

When you speak so plainly to him ?
He must take the risk of that. He chose

to drag me into the matter ; he cannot
complain if I know all about it."

I handed it to him, and took courage to
ask, " Then, though you would have approved
of my accepting him, you are not
displeased that I have refused him ? "

No, Ines, I am not displeased," he
said slowly, and smiling, though he did
not look at me. " But, at the same time,
I think it as well to make sure that that
very letter goes to him, and not some
other. You might change your mind
again between now and the mail."

Oh, if I could but explain that I have
never changed my mind! I got discouraged
only for a moment, when I saw
that you were so vexed and bothered by
the whole business."

I see. Well, we have said enough
about this. It is decided that you do not
marry your cousin Maurice, and that for

the present you put out of your head all
thoughts but those of how best to amuse
and enjoy yourself. Do you understand ? "

I can't enjoy myself when I feel I
have done something that you don't
approve of."

*' Then rest assured that I do approve 
entirely  of what you have done," he said
with much emphasis. And with that he
rose. '' Lisa, I suppose, is safely gossiping
with Mrs. van Bibber," he observed, and 4
was surprised at his accurate memory in
the matter. '' It is now much cooler than
it was ; suppose you put on your hat and
walk with me up the hill to meet the
stage. I expect Brian Holgate in this
evening, with all my official correspondence.
I must not keep up this idle life for ever."

Gladly I got my broad flat hat, threw a
light shawl over my arm, and we set out
together. We did not converse very

volubly, but from something I could not
have defined in his voice, manner, expression
 everything  I gathered the comforting
assurance that he did approve of
what I had done ; and my heart was lighter
than it had been for many a day.

CHAPTER III.

Elisabeth's mission. '

Felix had said to Ines that he expected
Brian Holgate by the mountain *' stage,"
and he duly arrived, bearing with him the
looked-for budget of letters, especially one
from Felix's business manager, sketching
out a plan of campaign for the coming
weeks. This worthy, the manager, was
anxious for his client to be at work again.
He saw good money, and plenty of it,
thrown away in every day of holiday
taken by the star whose affairs he was
managing. But Felix refused that evening
to do more than glance at the correspondence
; he promised Brian and himself

a hard morning's work on the morrow.
After supper  for they supped in old-fashioned
style at this old-fashioned Virginian
hostelry  they sat out in great
rocking-chairs within the almost dark
piazza, and formed one or two groups.
Felix had formally introduced the young
man to Ines, and he took an opportunity
of saying to her, in an undertone 

'would you mind taking him in hand
a bit, Ines ? He is strange here just now,
and I want to speak to Elisabeth, if I can
manage it."

Brian was perfectly amazed to find how
easy was conversation with this silent,
haughty-looking girl, whose presence he
had been secretly deprecating to himself.
He could always get on with Felix ; he
feared not old Mr. Relchardt, and he had
a lively recollection of Elisabeth's kindness
to him, with a conviction that she would

not withhold It In these different circumstances.
But he had instinctively
shrunk into his shell before the young-lady
; and at first, when he found they
were left alone, his impulse had been to
take a solitary stroll in the woods with his
pipe. He was, however, enabled easily to
answer her first question.

*' And have you been with Mr. Ark-wright
all the time he has been in
America ? " *

'* Yes ; I came with him."

And you have travelled with him, and
gone with him everywhere ? "

Yes, everywhere."

Tell me about it," she commanded
him, in a gentle but decided tone. And
with that she leaned back in her chair,
swayed herself to and fro with a light
touch on the ground of one little slippered
foot, as everybody did there, and, resting

VOL. in. 53

one elbow on the broad arm, like a shelf,
of her rocking-chair, and her cheek on her
hand, as he dimly saw in the darkness, she
quietly waited for him to begin.

Without more ado, Brian did begin, and
he told the story from beginning to end.
It took a long time ; but he had an
attentive auditor, who made few comments,
though asking many questions.

At the other end of the verandah, sat
Elisabeth, Felix, and Mr. Reichardt.

Well, Lisa, you haven't asked me how
our interview went off."

' Your interview ? " she said, with well-feigned
abstraction. " Oh, with the child,
this afternoon ! "

'' I don't know why you persist in
calling her a child. She is the most
grown-up and the clearest-headed child
it has been my fate to meet for a longtime."


"Fortunate for her. What did you
decides"

'* That she Is not to be tortured by the
youngster any more."

'' I fancy she had decided that sometime
ago."

'well, she was quite right. We got it
settled. She wrote a letter to him, which
I am to inclose with one from myself,
tomorrow."

Oh ! " *

'' You don't seem to take any interest
in it."

Oh yes ! I am glad it is all settled.
I shall always be interested in Ines. But
I'm mourning over your short memory.
It was you who scoffed at all my ideas. It
was you who said she was a child, and
nothing but a child. And now you turn
round upon me, and reproach me for
doing the same thing."

*' You forget I have not seen her for
two years."

'' Oh no, I don't ; not a bit. And she is
just what I always thought she would be."

*' She is not in the least what I thought
she would be."

Candidly speaking, did you ever think
much about it ? But in what way does
she differ ? "

She is so still, and pale, and proud. I
suppose the 'tall white lily' simile is a
hackneyed one, but it is true of her. And
she has such brains. She has brains in
her eyes. She  I don't know what to say
to her sometimes."

*' In such a case it is safest to say
nothing. That is what I should advise.
How much longer do you think of staying
here, Felix?"

I haven't thought about it. When I
have gone over my batch of correspondence

tomorrow, with Holgate, I shall know
better."

The morrow's business investigation
decided him to leave in a few days from
that time. The others went southwards
to see some places of interest, and were to
join him later at Washington for some
concerts. They did this, and all proceeded
together further north.

It was during this time  between the
middle of November and the end of the
year  that a firm friendship became established
between Brian Holgate and Elisabeth.
As has been related, the grudge
which she had felt against the young man,
on first learning Felix's intention of taking
him with him, had all melted away, even
before the two men had set sail. She was
by nature of an even, cheerful temperament,
which, while it might run into great enthusiasms,
seldom sank into depression,

and never into querulousness. But a sad
heart or story always brought out her
deepest feelings of sympathy and her
strongest desire for helpfulness. At this
time, too, as Elisabeth very plainly saw,
with a quiet smile to herself, Brian was
not likely to get very much attention from,
at any rate, two other members of the
party. She thought he looked lonesome
and sad, and proceeded to see if she could
not improve matters for him. It was not
very long before she was in his confidence,
as she usually was in that of any one when
she wished it. She found what she had
thought, that Brian's feelings were in anything
but a soothed, or healed, or healthy
state. He had got away from the conditions
which had so crushed him ; he had,
as it were, found breathing-space  a place
in which to pause and look round him.
But that was all. He thought Felix had

behaved with incredible kindness to him,
for he had a great idea that he was a
troublesome and depressing person with
his woes and misfortunes. And he adored
his employer for his kindness  kindness
which came so easily to Felix Arkwright,
sweet-tempered and successful, that it
would have been far more troublesome to
him to be unkind, or to find fault, even
where everything was not absolute perfection.
It was far easier to Felix to say,
Poor beggar ! " and make allowances, than
to be carping and dissatisfied. The kindness
was easy enough and, in its way,
delicate enough. It had consisted intreating
Brian on terms of absolute
equality, but with the somewhat protecting
attitude of an older man towards a younger
one for whom he has a liking. With
Brian it had been from the first a matter
of honour to do all he could to help Felix,

and as he had naturally any amount of tact
and ability, he quickly succeeded in his
endeavour. Indeed, there was little need
to fear rocks ahead in a progress like that
of so popular and great an artist. The
chief difficulty which ever confronted them
was that of choosing amongst several offers,
all equally good. This, with some skill
and finesse in the art of keeping off bores,
beggars, and '' cranks " (a word whose
value they both soon learnt to appreciate),
and sundry too ardent specimens of appreciation
of the opposite sex without introductions,
formed the main part of Brian's
duties, and he soon became a past master
in the performance of them.

By way of reward, if reward were needed,
he had the entree into most of the society
which Felix himself frequented. He had
unusual opportunities for studying men,
women, and things, in this new world, and.

in a certain way, he made great use of
it all. He was as adaptive and receptive
as a clever, observant woman, and in a
very short time he had quietly taken on a
polish which differentiated him considerably
from the Brian Holgate who had set out
more than a year ago. Felix was willing
to give him any number of hints as
regarded his singing, and, taking a genuine
interest in him, put it to him whether he
had not better, now that the chance was
open, embrace a professional career, offering
at the same time to use all his influence
to forward him. He thought it would
open up a new life to the lad after his
misfortunes, and he anticipated success for
him, though he told him with kindly candour
that he could not hope ever to reach quite
the first rank among artists : he had been
an amateur too long ; he had not young
enough entered upon the thorny path of

probation which leads to success. FeHx
could not quite understand why Brian,
though overwhelmed with gratitude at the
offer, would not accept it, simply saying,
when pressed for an explanation 
My spirit seems to have gone."
His grief, his disaster, had gone deeper
with him than Felix, busy as he was with
his own concerns, understood. Brian felt
as if he should never uplift his voice in
song any more. He had his violin with
him, but it lay in its case at the bottom of
his trunk  neglected. Would it ever speak
for him again, sing for him, whisper for
him, sigh for him, as in former days it had
so often done ? Perhaps, some time ; but
not now. It made him tremble to think
of touching it. But he could not tell
this to Felix. He could not explain the
complex emotions which combined to
make it a sheer impossibility for him to

think of coming forward  the wounded
animal instinct, which makes for cover and
solitude. So, with all his admiration for
Felix, and with all Felix's kindly feelings
for him, they remained apart. The man
of twenty-five. Inexperienced in the world
as he was, had passed through a furnace
which had never so much as scorched the
skin of the other. Body and soul he
had passed through it, and was inwardly
seared and scarred almost beyond recognition.


As the year went by, he gained calmness
and a kind of strength  the strength to
endure the loss of joy and hope, without
showing It. But It was not till Elisabeth
Reichardt appeared upon the scene that
he began to feel the warmth of the red
glow of sympathy. Then it was that he
first felt the ice and snow thawing, which,
in spite of his outward composure, had

hitherto bound his heart fast and firm to
the rock of its woe. She soon found
how to make him talk to her. He was
full of gratitude to her. He told her his
whole story  the history of his childhood
and boyhood and young manhood. As ina
mirror she saw it all ; and up to the time
of his meeting Lucy Barraclough, shortly
after she had left school and come to keep
her father's house, it was a pleasant story
enough, despite the absurdity of the
treatment to which he had been subjected
by his over-ignorant parents, on which
treatment he touched lightly, with an
indulgent smile. There had been all the
homely joys and pleasures, friends and
acquaintances, his playmates, Alice and
Andrew, at the farm, and their growing
up together faithful comrades. And there
was his deep love for his old home, of
which he told her a great deal. He

seemed better able to dwell on that than
on some other things.

** It was bonny," he said one day. '' This
country, wherever I go, looks so weary
and large and burnt up, in comparison with
that place. Their big rivers are grand,
and their big lakes are like seas, and their
big prairies are like deserts, but there s no
spot in all America that I've seen, fine and
grand though it be, that could ever seem
as bonny to me as that lane leading pact
my house towards Thornton ; and there's
none of their Rocky Mountains to equal
that view of Ravenside from the lane
between the fields, a little further on.
Eh ! " he added, in Lancashire parlance,
'' eh, but it was fine, Mrs. Reichardt, that
long curving swell, and the great square
head of it, looking up to the north-east, as
grim, I used to think, as the north-east
itself. All colours I've seen it, from pale

silver-gray, more like a mist against the
sky than a mountain on the earth, up to a
blue that was black, and a blackness that
was like ink. I used to feel as if it was
mine, my very own ; and so, in a way, it
was. But I shall never feel that aoain.
It's the land of witchcraft ; I was bewitched
bewitched away from it all into exile."

She tried hard to make him take another
view of the case, and feel it possible that
some time he might return and make it
all good, and be a dweller in his own land
once more. She threw out the most
subtle, filmy, and delicate kind of hints
about Alice  feelers so fine that they were
scarce perceptible save by the frequency of
their appearance. That was all in vain.
He shook his head and spoke of Alice ina
way which caused Elisabeth to cease her
hints, lest she should give him an inkling
of the girl's feelings for him, for it was

quite obvious that he had none for her,
save of the purest friendship and esteem.
Though she succeeded in making him both
feel and look more brightly on the present,
and in the view he took of his immediate
surroundings, yet she never succeeded in
shaking his firm conviction that the past
was the past, dead and buried, never to be
connected by even the slightest link with
the future ; that the " exile," as he called
it, was final, and his life, to use his own
expression, " broken in two." She did not
combat this view too strongly. Elisabeth
knew that there are natures and natures,
and she began to understand somewhat
more correctly what Brian's nature was.
She dared not contradict him when he
told her, as he did frequently, that there
are lives which are spoilt, though not
extinguished, by circumstances, and that
such a life was his. As he very truly

said once, before she had ceased to dispute
with him on the point, the Ives that meet
with this fate usually meet with it early.
That is in the nature of things. It comes
while there are still loves and hates which
can be all in all to them. So it had been
with him.

With this state of friendship gradually
growing up between them, and with
many an interlude of pleasure, excitement,
and amusement, they poured about from
one place to another. And as Brian,
thawing under the delicate influence of
womanly sympathy, became more expansive
and confidential, Ines Grey, as Elisabeth
observed, but without uneasiness,
became less so. She had indeed lost all
childishness. With all her pride, there had
been, hitherto, a naive simplicity, an outspoken
frankness about her, which had
clearly marked her as still a girl, and a

very young girl. That was gone. She
was quiet, sedate, composed. No tremor
of voice, no wavering of her glance nor
unruly colour on her cheek, betrayed to
any outsider that her inner state was less
tranquil and unmoved than her outer one.
She talked less to Elisabeth, but never
came near her without the same smile of
perfect trust and confidence, which to the
elder woman was so sweet. The touch
of her hand, the sound of her voice, th
tenderness of her caress, were exactly the
same. It was only Elisabeth who knew,
whatever one other might sometimes
suspect, that they covered a struggle, a
passion, and a resolute endurance of what
she felt to be a sharp ordeal, which things
were making of the dainty, fragile girl, a
strong and gracious woman. Her true
nature came out in this crisis. The love
which had so long, half unknown to herself,
VOL. III. 54

been in her heart for FeHx, was the love
that strengthens  strengthens whether it
be ever returned and acknowledged or not,
because it was based on an utterly unselfish
foundation. Sometimes Elisabeth's heart
was a little uneasy. '' What," she asked
herself, '' if, after all, he should let the prize
slip, the richest and the greatest that has
 lever been within his grasp ? What if her
immovable calm should deceive him, as it
must deceive all but me ? and his pride,
and the recollection of his long authority
over her, should deter him from risking a
refusal ? He might never know what he
had missed ; but she  no ! " Elisabeth
decided within herself, " I will never be
pessimist enough to give that idea a single
thought. It shall not be so."

For she had no clue from him. His
propensity, just after their arrival, to talk
to her about Ines, seemed to have died

away. He was as silent to his old friend
as was the girl herself. But she, by nature
and by experience, versed in hearts and
their stories, did not resent this. Only to
her father-in-law did she sometimes breathe
a hint of her ideas upon the subject.
Matchmaker ! " he answered her, smiling.
But she knew that he would have endorsed
her whole course of action in the matter.

In the middle of December, when it had*
suddenly turned piercingly cold, they found
themselves in Philadelphia, where a brilliant
series of musical entertainments was to
take place. The Quaker city is great at
anniversaries, centenaries, inaugural ceremonies,
and other functions ; and it was in
honour of some such prolonged festivities
that the performances for which Felix was
engaged were to be given. There were
to be concerts, both morning and evening

ones, and several isolated acts or scenes
from certain operas in which he had made
his mark, and It was likely that these
entertainments, together with others in the
neighbourhood, would keep them In Philadelphia
for some three weeks. The
Quaker city, besides her first-mentioned
propensity, likes, as well as another, any
taste of the good things of this world, in
the shape of art, beauty, or talent, when
successful ; and she welcomed with open
arms the world-famed artist. Despite
innumerable offers of hospitality of the
most generous description, Felix found
himself best suited by putting up at a
hotel, and the rest of the party were in
the same house.

One evening, almost immediately after
their arrival, Elisabeth, feeling somewhat
tired, had decided to remain at home, and
let her father-in-law chaperon Ines to a

great reception at which Felix also was to
be present. For aught she knew, Brian
too would sooner or later go, he having
received an invitation aloof with the
others.

But while she sat alone, her book hanging
idly from her hand, he suddenly came
into the room, with so strange and excited
a look in his eyes, so breathless an expression,
that she was startled, and looked at
him in silence for a moment. Then*
seeing that no ordinary matter must have
caused the look 

** Brian, what is it ? " she asked him,
half rising.

** Mrs. Relchardt," he gasped, going upto
her, and looking at her in the same
fixed and startled manner, '' I've seen her,
I've seen Lucy. She is here  in this
house."

CHAPTER IV.

AT THORNTON.

Seen Lucy ! " repeated Elisabeth, almost
stunned by his statement ; and then,
collecting herself, *' Is that possible ?
Surely you must have deceived yourself."

'' I saw her," he repeated, his face quite
white  " I saw her with a woman who
looked like a servant or a nurse. They
were going together to the elevator, and
she was leaning on the woman's arm.
They got in, and I saw her no more."

*' It is quite easy to find out," said she,
convinced that he was mistaken, and wishing
to calm him. '' Go down to the
bureau, and look at the visitors' book."

Without a word he turned on his heel
and left the room. In about five minutes
he returned.

Last night," he said, ** they came.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Law, Hollowley,
Lancashire, England."

He sat down and looked at her, and
Elisabeth knew not what to say to him.

Oh, she looked ilL There is something
very wrong with her," he said at
last, more as if speaking to himself that
to her.

'' Perhaps," suggested Elisabeth after a
pause, " she has come for her health."

'' Perhaps," he replied, in the same abstracted
tone. '' Whatever she may have
come for, health is far from her."

''Mr. Holgate, tell me; have you had
no communication at all with any of your
friends up there  at Thornton, I mean ? "

No," said he. ' I did not want them

to know anything about me. A few
months ago I was able to send AHce back
the money which she lent me when I 
when I had to come away. But I just
sent a draft on an Irk ford bank, where 1
know they have an account. And I only
said, on a slip of paper, * With heartfelt
thanks from one who can never repay the
kindness that went with this loan.' I did
not know  at least, I had not heard, that
she was married  Lucy, I mean. I think
I knew all the time," he went on, "but
I had not heard it ; no."

*' What can have brought her here ? "
said Elisabeth, deeply interested, and with
a wonder, too, as to how it would all end.

Brian made no answer. He seemed
again to drop off into a reverie, and presently,
with a deep sigh, but without
speaking a word, he went quietly out of
the room.

He had said that Lucy was with a
woman who looked Hke a servant or
nurse. This was true. It was a trained
nurse who was with her ; and EHsabeth
had a maid with her  an old and confidential
retainer. These two worthies,
being both English one a Lancashire, the
other a Yorkshire woman  found each
other out, either by freemasonry, or instinct,
or clairvoyance, before they had
been ten minutes in the same dining-room ;
and very soon each was in possession of
all that the other could tell her, or invent
for her, concerning her own particular
employers and their affairs. Of course,
only as much of this as was thought goodby
the abigail was related to their mistresses
; and Lucy's nurse, knowing well
the state her lady was in, told her simply
nothing. Elisabeth's maid, Bolton, however,
speedily informed her mistress of

quite as much as the latter needed to
know on the subject  that Mr. and Mrs.
Law had not been married a year ; that
Lucy had not been strong when the
marriage took place ; that, some months
afterwards, she had been out driving, and
had met with a slight accident, nothing in
the least degree serious, but that her
nerves must have been in a strangle condition
at the time, as she had never been
able to get over this apparently trivial
shock, but had from that day been
strangely, sadly, and to those by whom
she was surrounded, inexplicably ill. She
had been not only weak in body, but in a
most painfully perturbed condition mentally.
She had been taken by her husband to see
one or two well-known English physicians,
all of whom agreed in saying that she had
no organic disease, but that her nervous
system was in a state of collapse ; and

that, though there was Httle doubt of her
final recovery, yet it must be long, very
long, before such a serious disturbance
could even been to amend. And the last
doctor had said that travel was excellent
in such cases, especially when it included
a sea voyage. When America was spoken
of, he had said it was the very thing ; had
recommended a great doctor in Philadelphia,
who had gone deeper into these
things, and had more experience in them,
than any man living.

*' And so they're here, ma'am. And just
at the first she seemed to brighten up a
bit, and wish to see what sort of a place
she'd got to ; but it did her harm, and now
she's so tired and weak aofain, and cries
so dreadfully, that they have to keep her
quiet. Poor lady, she must be in a bad
way, from what they say ; and so young 
only just over one and twenty ! "

This Information Elisabeth gradually
communicated to Brian, for she saw that
his thoughts were constantly busied with
Lucy, his whole mental being In a state of
unrest, and that he spent a great part of
his spare time In hanging about In the
halls and corridors of the hotel, In the
hope of once more catching some such
glimpse of her as he had had on that
evening when he had first seen her.

But he was not rewarded. All that
Brian saw on one or two occasions, was
Law himself, looking much as he always
had done in Brian's recollection. At these
times Brian always shrank away, and made
himself Invisible, not from any fear or
timidity, but because he could not trust
himself to encounter the glance of the
other man, lest he should suddenly become
beside himself, spring upon him, and do
him some injury.

It Is necessary to give some few details
as to the chain of events, at the end of
which she who had been Lucy Barraclough
came at last to be under the same roof
with Brian Holgate.

After that miserable scene at Jessamine
Lawn, In which he had cursed her falsehood
and herself, and with scorn which
had penetrated even the thick skins of Jim
Barraclough and Richard Law, had left
the three together, to digest his words,
Lucy had. In a dead silence of the other
two, at last crawled away to her room and,
locking the door, had flung herself upon
her bed and lain there for a long time as
one without life. Her mind had been
active enough. Sleep was not for her on
that night, nor, except In short, refreshing
snatches, for many nights afterwards ;
and in the midst of her agony she had
unwittingly discovered the profoundest

truth in regard to herself, when, after her
lone, motionless vio'il, she had raised her
face, haggard and drawn in the light of
the expiring candles on her dressing-table,
and there had escaped from her lips, ina
kind of groan, '' Oh, I am not strong
enough to bear this."

She did not say, either aloud or to herself,
" I have sinned, and I am punished ; "
nor did she take the view that it was she
who had been altogether sinned against in
the matter. Her moral sense and her
sense of honour were not keen enough to
realize the first ; her regard for the two
men who had struggled for her was about
equal ; she had not suffered in losing
Brian ; she cared not a straw for Law.
But she had been pushed, and bent, and
made to do what she hated, and it was
too much for her. She was " not strong
enough to bear this."

Such was the truth. She was not
framed by nature to sustain any great
weight of either grief or responsibility.
Perhaps she could not have borne any
great joy much better than any great
sorrow or injury. It was not in her. Sofar,
her youth, and immunity from active
care and anxiety, had not forced upon her
or others the knowledge of her weakness ;
but now, pushed on by a nature stronger
a hundred times than her own, to unscrupulous
conduct, the long strain of
acting against her inclinations, and under
compulsion, had told upon her inadequate
nervous system ; and the crash at the end,
when she had been forced to play as odious
a part as any in which a woman can figure,
had crushed and overwhelmed her. She
was not of the stuff which can sin, or be
pitiless, or treacherous, on the one hand ;
which can be strong and true, and immovably

faithful on the other, can gain
strength by its very actions to continue
in them, and which does not break down.
If Richard Law had known the girl's
nature, he would perhaps have chosen
some other method of making her his ; but
how was he to know anything ? How
was he to know that she was different
from other women ? She looked just the
same ; she moved, spoke, and acted like
another woman. He did not suppose that
her late experience had been exactly a
pleasant one. He would have spared it
her if he could ; but she would recover.
It was better to get things of that sort
over, and there had been literally no other
means of getting that young fool out of
the way. It would all settle down now,
and he would find means of making her
forget it ; for now that he had succeeded
in doing what he wanted, he meant to be
very kind to her.

After a little time Lucy did seem to
forget it ; at any rate, she never spoke
of it. She was passive when Dicky came
and said he wanted to know what was to
prevent him from going to her father. She
did not forbid him to do so ; and he went
and made a formal proposition to Mr.
Barraclough for her hand.

Mr. Barraclough, after recovering from
his surprise at finding that some one was
'rafter" Lucy, gave a joyful consent, for
Richard Law was a wealthy man even
now, and there was every prospect that
some time he would rise to be one of the
magnates of money in those parts. Everything
smiled upon Dicky in his wooing 
except the object of his affections ; she
confined herself to this unwillingness  she
made no difficulty about accepting him.

Lucy's reasons for this passive acquiescence
were diverse. First, she had

VOL. Hi. 55

got an almost superstitious awe of Dicky's
cleverness and of his power. He had so
distinctly told her all that he meant to do,
and then he had at once and deliberately
gone and done it ; without faltering, without
swerving or making bungles or mistakes,
he had done things which she had
thought impossible of accomplishment.
That was the first reason. The second
was that, now the thing had been spoken
of openly and was known by her father
and brother, she knew that everything
short of brute force would be employed
to make her do as they wished ; and she
did not feel the capacity or the inclination
to fight three strong men, who cared
nothing for her feelings and everything
for their own aggrandisement. Reason
the third and last was, that the marriage
would bring some variety into her life,
some change of scene and surroundings,

which might perhaps make her feel a Natheless
wretched than at present she felt.

There is nothing to be feared except
fear," says some writer. Lucy had fallen,
physically and mentally, into that condition
In which fear finds easy entrance and an
open door into the spirit's recesses, but
In which happier and saner emotions may
knock in vain for admittance. Her fears,
so far, had taken no tangible shape ; they
consisted more of a vague wish to get
things settled, and to put an end to the
old life. And this was effected by her
marriage in the April following Brian's
departure. She was wedded, standing full
in the beams of the monster golden-eye,
to Richard Law, and left Jessamine Lawn
for ever.

Her husband possessed a house much
nearer to Hollowley, in the vicinity of his
works, but at first he had determined to

make their chief residence at Moor Isles.
He said he would not take Lucy away
from her own people. In pursuance of
this resolve, he prepared to have the place
turned inside out ; all the old furniture, the
simple old things which had been therefor
generations, were to be moved, and
new aesthetic splendours to come in their
stead. But before this could be carried
out, Lucy had spoken ; she uttered her one
fiat in opposition to his wishes.

I can't live at Moor Isles," she said ;
' I'll go to Hollowley."

He expressed surprise, reasoned with
her, but talked in vain.

'' You need not ask me to go there,"
she said abruptly ; ''I won't."

So some furnishing and beautifying were
done to the house in Hollowley, and Moor
Isles was left as it had been. Dicky
offered the post of caretaker to Mrs. Stott,

who, while unable to conceal her loathing
and scorn for him and all appertaining to
him, could, cat-like, not tear herself away
from the spot while yet a chance remained
to her of staying. She did stay, after
telling Richard Law that she would never,
as long as she lived, hold it to be the
house and property of any other than
Brian Holgate.

As a matter of fact. It was Brian's
property, as Dicky of course knew. Ina
court of justice Dicky could never have
substantiated any claim to it. But he
knew also that as a debt of honour it was
his, and that Brian would never claim it.
In this capacity he took possession of it,
arranging everything in his own methodical
and systematic way. He was only enforcing
his rights ; he did not want to go
beyond them, and he did not consider that
those rights included possession of any

of the interior furnishings of the house, or
any of its plate or pictures, so, laughing
gently at Mrs. Stott's wrath, he told her
that she would be undisturbed in the
guardianship of these and other things,
which for years had been the pride of her
heart, until, he added with a slight sneer,
such time as it should suit him to come
and occupy, when both she and the things
would have to make themselves scarce.

'rand the day as you take possession,
Richard Law, and drive out them as has
lawful rights over this place, will be the
same day as the Lord in heaven forgets
as how He is a just God," said the poor
old woman, looking at him with some
majesty in her rugged form and face  the
majesty of righteous wrath.

Oh, I know nothing about that," he
told her. 'that's out of Mother Skipton s
prophecies, or something as silly. You

remember what I've told you. I shall
give you a look in every now and then,
to see that my orders are carried out."

He left her quivering with rage, and yet
filled with an almost hysterical joy at not
having been forced to leave the old place
after all.

How Sarah contrived to live was a
mystery best understood by herself and
Alice Ormerod. She had some small
savings, but had not been very careful 'in
the matter of hoarding, knowing  as she
had fancied  that as long as Moor Isles
stood, she would not be without a home.
Law offered her no money ; had he done
so, she would have been more inclined
to spit in his face than take it. Her wants
were not numerous, her constitution was
of the toughest, and Alice Ormerod lived
over the way.

Poor Ferran lived between Moor Isles

and the farm. In the evenings he usually
lay at Alice Ormerod's feet, till she touched
his head softly and said, " Come, lad,"
opened the kitchen door, and bade him
'hie away home," when he betook himself
direct to the back door of Moor Isles.
Sometimes, during that winter after Brian's
departure, when the nights were long and
dark, the younger woman would go across
to "th' House," as they always called it,
and sleep on a bed in Sarah Stott's room ;
for the poor old body had got a little
timorous, and would recall to herself the
many sad scenes which had taken place
before the brightness of that house had
been quenched, telling Alice she felt as if
she heard footfalls, sighs, and sobbing, and
that she feared ghosts.

So Brian Holgate's house knew him
no more.

CHAPTER V.

LUCY.

In April, as has been said, Lucy and
Richard were married, and for a month or
two all seemed, in a quiet way, to go well
It appeared as if she had recovered the
balance which had for a brief season been
disturbed, though she sometimes complained
of not sleeping, and of a disagreeable,
abnormal sensitiveness to
sounds, which had in former days been
unknown to her. Her father and brother
said they never saw her unless they went
to visit her ; she was too lazy, they
declared, to come all the way up the hill to

Thornton. And, indeed, she did not seem
very fond of going there.

But one afternoon, rather late in the
summer, though it was still hot and fine,
she had for once been to her father's house.
He was about to give a dinner-party to
sundry business acquaintances of his own
kind, and she had been requested to go
and see the housekeeper, and decide certain
knotty points in regard to the bill of
fare.

She had not felt very bright as she
drove there. The evening before, she had
learnt from Dicky, in a casual kind of way,
what an excellent joke (from his point of
view) he had succeeded in playing upon
her with regard to the lost bracelet, long
ago. The bracelet he had given to her
had been her own, which he had recovered
without difficulty in the ball-room, had
carried to a jeweller s to be put into a new

case and receive an extra burnish and
gloss, and had then brought to her.

I never said in so many words that it
had been made new, you know," he told
her, laughing at the strange expression on
her face. '' All's fair in love and war. If
I'd given it you back and told you the
simple truth, I should have lost my hold
over you. Don't you see," he added, more
urgently, as she did not respond with
alacrity, " I wanted you so much, Lucy,
and you were so perverse and so maddening.
I believe I would have told lies for
twenty-four hours at a stretch to get what
I wanted."

'' Oh, I understand," was all she had
said. But she had passed a wakeful night.

This afternoon, she stayed as short a
time as possible at her father's house, got
into her victoria, and was driven away.
On the homeward way she soon came

opposite to the gates of Moor Isles and
Ormerod's farm. Just as they were passing
the latter, a couple of young cattle rushed
tumultuously forth, pursued by the collie,
vigorously working to drive them back
again. Lucy's horses, with one accord,
shied at the unexpected disturbance, and
for a minute or two her coachman had
some difficulty in keeping them from bolting
down the hill, but he succeeded, in a
very short time, in calming them. Glancing
over his "shoulder when this was accomplished,
he was surprised to see his mistress
lying back in her place, her eyes closed,
her face white  evidently in a faint.

The faint was a long one. Before she
recovered consciousness, she had to be
lifted from her carriage and borne into
one of the parlours at Moor Isles. When
she opened her eyes at last, and began
feebly to shudder, she found two women

Standing near her, who had evidently been
attending to her and applying remedies.
After a minute or two she recognized them.
They were Alice Ormerod and Sarah Stott.
After some time, but not until several
hours had elapsed, her carriage came back,
with her husband In it, for Alice had
had presence of mind enough to send the
coachman to fetch Law, and they took
Lucy back to her own home. A scared
look was on her face, a strange, indescribable
fatigue in her eyes. The doctor
was sent for, made many inquiries, examined
carefully, and finally said that he
could not pronounce in the matter. He
could call it nothing but a case of
nerves. There was nothing organically
wrong ; he had used every remedy he
could think of No one In ordinary health
could possibly be affected in this way by
so slight a shock ; but Lucy denied having

been out of health up to now. On the
whole, after a week's futile efforts to procure
for his patient sleep by night or rest
by day, he informed Dicky that he would
like to have the advice of a specialist in
such matters, to help his own knowledge.

Accordingly, a '' specialist in such
matters " was sent for from afar  a stout
man, with a round face and an innocent-looking
button of a mouth, which to the
uninitiated eye did not promise much.
But a certain expression in his eyes, and
tone in his voice, speedily inspired respect.
And he had a not unkindly expression.

At first it seemed as if everything would
go right. He knew so much, understood
so well, was never at fault for a moment.
Even Dicky, the unimpressionable, was
impressed. " He makes Palmer look like
a child," he said afterwards. This savant
did something mysterious with gaslight

and glasses, through which he inspected
Lucy's eyes, making no sign the while.
Her appearance was just what it always
had been, only for the terrible exhaustion,
which seemed to go down in the eyes to
infinite depths. But she had fever, turned
with disgust from food, and when he
questioned her as to her feelings, the same
look of terror, uncontrollable and unlimited,
crossed her face, and she said, almost in a
whisper  

'' I am sure I am going mad."
Dicky's face blanched in turn. This
was the first hint he had heard of the horrid
idea. She had been very reserved with
the Hollowley doctor, but the specialist
seemed to inspire her with at least the
confidence to tell him her worst fears.

'' I am sure I am ; and I can't think of
anything but myself and what my mind
feels like," she added.

The physician smiled in a superior
manner.

Quite a mistake, my dear madam.
Your brain is organically sound. You are
no more mad than I am. You are suffering
from anaemia  cerebral anaemia it is,
which paints everything in these black
colours just at present. You have nothing
to fear on that score. There is no danger
to your life, and none to your reason."

'' I have done wrong," said Lucy. '' I
have been very wicked, and I am going
mad." She turned her face aside, and
burst into tears  into an agony of helpless,
hopeless weeping, betokening, indeed, a
functional weakness terrible to contemplate,
but no insanity whatsoever.

Again the great specialist smiled.

Doing wrong," said he, '' has nothing
to do with this kind of thing. You
might commit a murder and feel comparatively

comfortable, with one sort of
temperament. You may be faultless and
suffer tortures, with another." But he
looked at Dicky, and asked him, '* Is there
the slightest ground for what your wife
says of herself, Mr. Law ? "

'* Not a jot," said Dicky, stoutly, and
believed he was telling the truth. '' Excepting
that she yielded to me in letting
something be done that she didn't quite
like ; that's all."

** I thought as much. But there has
been mental strain along with it, considerable
strain, evidently. That tells. On
certain peculiarly constituted nervous temperaments
it tells with most painful results,
such as we see here. Mrs. Law"  he
laid his hand kindly upon her shoulder, as
she still lay weeping  " I can only assure
you that you have nothing the matter with
you that is not perfectly curable. You are

VOL. III. 56

very ill  it is best to face facts  and you
will not be well for a long time yet. But
you will get well. You must have rest,
absolute rest, of mind and body ; and food
-I will give you my ideas about food," he
added, turning to the Hollowley doctor,
while the amazed and anxious Dicky, to
whom everything connected with " nerves "
was a sealed book, stood by in astonishment,
he being firmly convinced that what
Lucy needed was what in his own mind he
called a 'strengthening mixture" of some
sort.

Lucy turned round and said in a hopeless
kind of voice 

No one could suffer more than I am
suffering, not the worst lunatic in all
Bedlam."

No," said the specialist readily, " that
is quite true ; and from that very fact you
must take consolation. [" Whew ! " thought

Dicky.] You knozv just where you are
different from what you have been a Httle
while ago  a certain proof of your sanity.
Don't fight so desperately with your
painful sensations. Just say to yourself,
They may do their worst, I shall get
over it.' You are not going mad, whatever
you may think. You suffer more, perhaps,
than if you were. Rest, food, change,
time, and no worry or anxiety  these must
be your medicines ; there are no others for
your illness. You have youth on your
side and a constitution that is sound, if
not robust. These will pull you through,
you may rest assured."

She only wept on, hopelessly, helplessly.
It was too much trouble to say that she
would greatly have preferred sentence of
death, and that no recovery could ever
compensate for the tortures of fear, sleeplessness,
depression, in the midst of which
she was now living.

The specialist returned in the course of
a week or ten days, but found scarcely
any alteration in his patient. She was
still living, still suffering, still hopeless
and terrified, still perfectly and almost
painfully sane in her intellectual processes,
still feeling as if she would be, as she
expressed it, ''a raving maniac the next
moment."

'' Do you mean to say that my wife's
brain is not weak ? " Dicky asked him in
private, after they had left Lucy's room.
He felt angry with the man  the anger of
ignorance and impotence.

*' Physically it is  not intellectually."

This did not do Dicky much good,
though he had a glimmering of what was
meant.

'* Her nerves have utterly given way''
continued the physician. " And it is easier
to say that than to set them up again."

'' Nerves," repeated Dicky, darkly ; " if
I had a nerve that Hated its head and
dared to tell me that it had ' given way,'
I'd so doctor that nerve that it should
never complain again. That I would."

The specialist suppressed a laugh of
amusement, and merely remarked, so/o
voce, as he shook his head, '' Gut gebriillf,
Lowe''

'* What do you say ?" asked Law. '' Is
that the name of her illness 1 "

Oh no ! The name of her illness  at
least the name we give it at present, is
neurasthenia. They have a great deal of
it in America, and it's from there that we
get the best treatment for it  the most
successful, so far, at any rate. What I say
is, that you must get Mrs. Law away from
here as soon as possible  slight changes at
first, and then, as soon as she is able to
bear it, greater ones. You had better

have a nurse for her. It will add to her
comfort."

During the month or two that followed,
Lucy had '' little changes " from one place
to another ; had food, had rest, had a
nurse ; saw other physicians, but remained
much the same. It was a London doctor
who at last advised a voyage and, when
Dicky suggested America, approved of the
idea, recommending a great physician in
Philadelphia, who was considered to have
gone more deeply into these things than
any other man in the world. So it came
to pass that Dicky made arrangements
as soon as he could for leaving his
business for a time, and taking his wife
and her nurse across the Atlantic, in the
hope of speedily curing what time alone, if
anything, could in any way ameliorate.
Perhaps the specialists knew this. Perhaps
they knew, too, that torture itself

O

may be lessened by the Idea that one is
doing something of an active nature to get
rid of it. That the party found themselves
in the same hotel with Felix and his
friends, was nothing more than a not very
startling coincidence.

CHAPTER VI.

THEN GOOD-NIGHT, ALAS ! "

The details of this story were of course
not known to any of the Arkwright party.
All that they were acquainted with  and
by " they " I mean chiefly Brian and Elisabeth,
who alone took any active interest
in the matter  was what Lucy's nurse had
told to Mrs. Reichardt's maid. Through
this functionary also they learned that
Mrs. Law continued very ill indeed ; that,
despite the confident predictions of the
** specialist in these matters," the voyage
had produced no good effect upon her ; and
that the great physician in Philadelphia,
who had been at once consulted, had not

expressed himself so sanguinely as those at
home. To Lucy herself he had said all
that was cheering, but he had told Lucy's
husband that her state was serious ; that
her brain was so weak as to render any
shock exceedingly dangerous to either her
life or her reason ; but that, nevertheless,
it was very bad for her to remain always
shut up in herself As she was unable to
take any exercise without the most terrible
bodily fatigue and mental depression resulting
from it, he advised that she should
be driven to his house instead of his going
to see her. His chief hope for her recovery
consisted in bringing her by slow
degrees to get accustomed to little snatches
of change and variety. As these accumulated,
so, he trusted, would her power of
bearing them, and her capacity for feeling
an interest in something outside that ring
of torture, her own morbid mental and

physical sensations. They had a small
suite of rooms in the quietest part of the
hotel, and there lived in a privacy as great
as if they had been in their own house 
perhaps even greater.

One day, about a fortnight after the
Laws had arrived, and when Felix's engagement
in Philadelphia was drawing to
a close, there had been an afternoon concert
at the Academy of Music, at which Felix
had sun Of several times. He had excited
the wildest delight and enthusiasm in his
audience ; and, feeling very good-natured
for some reason which might be connected
with the fact that Ines and Elisabeth sat
near the front in full view of him, he had
more than once consented to a recall. It
was six o'clock before the concert was
over. Joining his two friends, he drove
back to the hotel with them in a close
carriage. He had not to sing again that

night, but there were some arrangements
to be made about the morrow.

I wonder where Holgate is," he said,
as they all went in ; and he sent in
search of him; but Brian was not to be
found.

He (Brian) had accompanied the others
to the concert, though he did not sit with
them. He felt to-day a little less restless
and unhappy than he had done yet since
his knowledge of Lucy's presence in the
house. Something, some influence, he
knew not what, seemed to lay a soothing
hand on his weary spirit. The intense
consciousness of Lucy's sufferings was not
so keenly burning in his mind as usual.
He sat still in his corner, quite in the
background, and listened with greater
pleasure than usual, and with more attention
than for a long time he had been able to
give to anything of this kind. It was a

fine concert, and he enjoyed it until at last
Felix, rising in compliance with an eager
demand for a repetition, said two or three
words to his accompanied, and began to
sing the song which Brian had never
forgotten 

Der Ernst hat mir bereft des Hauses Dach
Doch warm list's mir geblieben im Wohngemach,"
etc. 

Riickert's words to Schubert's music,
which Felix had sung on the night that
always seemed to Brian a hundred years
ago, but was never to be forgotten, when
he had visited Moor Isles, and soon after
the singing of which song Lucy and her
brother had marched into the room.

Dreamily and ideally beautiful now as
then, and divinely sung by the great artist,
it was more than the young man could
bear to hear. After drinking-in a few
bars, and feeling the pain of recollection

and longing rise to the keenest agony, he
quietly arose, being near the door, and
left the hall, noiselessly and unobserved.
A passing wonder seized him, in the
course of his torturing introspection. How
was it that Felix Arkwright, who had
never in his life suffered pains like, these
which had laid Brian low, had the power
to produce tones, inflections, cadences of
such piercing sweetness and pathos as to
open up new depths of emotion and insight
in the consciousness even of one who had
suffered till he had almost succumbed to
his suffering ? Perhaps, after all, it was
the sufferer himself who read into the
music meanings which had not occurred
to the artist.

He smiled a little to himself as towards
the hotel he threaded his way along the
gaily lighted Chestnut and Thirteenth
Streets  streets filled with busy people

intent on their Christmas shopping, their
friends, their amusements.

Oh, if Lucy could hear that song ! But
no, she had come after it had been sung.
It would not convey to her the meaning
it had for him ; it would tell her nothing.
He wondered whether any part of her
present illness had arisen from strain, or
anxiety, or vexation at the time of his
departure. He remembered with a
shudder the fierce, pitiless words he had
said to her ; he remembered how she had
almost fallen, as if some one had struck
her a physical blow ; he remembered, too,
what a little slender thing she was, with
a pale face and a habit of being very tired
with nothing in particular ; and a wild
uneasiness seized him. What would he
not give to assure her that all was forgiven
 if she would only get well and look
once again like the Lucy Barraclough of

old days  yes, If she would only be happy
even though he had lost her and another
man had won her, and she had been feeble
and false and treacherous !

Here he was at the hotel. He entered
It and, Instead of getting Into the elevator
and going either to his own room or to
that which Felix and he used as a kind
of office and reception-room for business
purposes, he turned towards the staircase
and began slowly and abstractedly t
ascend It. He was lost to everything
except the thoughts which the hearing of
Felix's song had awakened. It was, therefore,
perhaps not remarkable that he should
stray from the direct way and. Instead of
turning on a landing and pursuing the
grand staircase, go straight before him up
a flight of narrower stairs which should
have been shut off by a door that some
careless person had left open.

It was only when he had reached the
top of these stairs, and found himself standing
on a landing with which he was totally
unacquainted, that he came to a pause. It
was the unfamiliarity of the place which
brought him to himself  the fact that
he had almost run against a wall where
he had expected to find free passage. He
stood still and began to look about him,
realizing that he had made a mistake and
got into a part of the building to him
unknown. As a matter of fact, he had
penetrated to what was known as *' the
private wing" of the hotel  a small annexe
containing several suites of rooms held in
much favour by such residents as loved
quietness and retirement. He had not
known of its existence, but, as he stood
now, thinking of retracing his steps, he
noticed how very quiet it was. The
carpets were thick and soft; one got the

impression of double doors softly swinging
on noiseless hinges ; not a sound was to
be heard of the bustle and traffic outside,
which had seemed to penetrate to every
other part of the hotel.

At last It occurred to Brian, in his half-awake
state, to look for the staircase up
which he had come, and to go down it
again. He turned to do so, and was not
far from it when two women, who had
been slowly climbing it, gained the landing
and paused. The younger and slighter of
them leaned heavily on her companion,
and laid her hand on her heart, panting
as though breathless or oppressed.
Brian's breath seemed to fail him, and his
heart stood still. It was Lucy  his love
Lucy. Hundreds of times a day, since
he knew of her presence here, he had
dreamed of meeting her  longed for It,
dreaded it, tormented himself by thinking

VOL. HI. 57

of it ; and here, face to face with her, he
was !

He moved slowly forward, looking at
her, and she, opening her eyes at last, for
she had closed them in her breathlessness,
beheld him. Her limp and unstrung
attitude, drooping, broken, and languid,
seemed slowly to stiffen into rigidity as
she looked at him.

'' Lucy ! " he said, in an imploring
whisper, as he stretched out his hands
towards her  '' Lucy, I knew you were
here. You are ill, they tell me. Fm so
unhappy to think you should be ill or
grieving. Don't fret for anything that has
ever been between us. I'm sorry I ever
spoke so harshly to you as I did. I've
repented it many a time, and wished to
tell you so."

'' Sir ! " exclaimed the nurse, " I don't
know who you are, but this lady is very

ill, and must not be startled. It's as

much " She checked herself in time

from saying, 'ras her life is worth;" but
she both looked and was frightened and
annoyed. Both her master and the doctor
had so impressed upon her the danger of
any shock to Lucy, that she was in continual
anxiety on the subject. " Ah ! "
she exclaimed in a loud voice, as Lucy
swayed unsteadily, and she caught her,
and held her up. ''Oh, she's fainted," she
added sharply to Brian. " You don't know
what you are doing, startling her in that
way."

Where is her room ? " he asked, springing
forward and catching Lucy in his
arms, wishing at the moment that the room
might be miles away.

This way  quick ! " said the nurse,
going rapidly before him. " Bring her in,
and lay her down, and then go away, or

there will be a pretty to-do when Mr. Law
comes in."

It was a bedroom into which she had
called him.

*' Lay her on the bed," said she. '' Oh
dear, oh dear ! now we shall have her ill
and crying again for a week or more
when she comes out of this. There, I
can undress her here. Now, please go at
once, sir. I know exactly what to do."

But Brian did not go. He laid the
motionless figure on the bed, and did not
move, even when the nurse came with her
remedies. Scolding and grumbling, she
went round to the other side of the bed,
and was about to unfasten the hood which
Lucy wore, when Brian lifted his hand to
stop her. He was gazing down into Lucy's
face, and he said in a low, steady, but
thrilling voice, as if speaking to himself 

'' Don't tease her with any of those

things. She'll never want them any more.
She is dead."

Don't say such things ! " said the nurse,
in angry perturbation, 'but go, and let me
attend to her."

She is dead," repeated Brian, with a
deep, heart-breaking sob, which seemed to
rend his very heart. '' Oh, Lucy, how
glad I am that you heard what I said.
How glad I am ! Forgive me  forgive
me what I ever said to you ! "

He kissed her forehead so lightly that
scarce could it be called a kiss, slipped
upon his knees by the bedside, laid one
hand upon hers, and was silent. In that
moment, nothing in the world existed for
him, save only her.

The nurse began to cry. Such a scene
was without precedent in her experience.
She lived and acted by rule, and knew not
what to do in the emergency.

Suddenly another voice asked 

'what is all this? Is my wife ill?
What "

Brian got up, turned swiftly, and discovered
himself to Law, who, though he
neither started nor shrank, for his nerves
were of steel, nevertheless showed a great
change of countenance.

Holgate ! " he said, hardly above a
whisper ; and then, '' What are you doing
here ? "

*' Saying good-bye," replied Brian, in a
quiet, low voice. '' I met her just now on
the stairs; and when I spoke to her she
fainted. I carried her in here. You asked
if she was ill ; she'll never be ill any more."

*' I told the gentleman it was as much
as " began the nurse, sobbing.

'hush!" said Brian. "Richard Law,
I did not know slow ill she was. I only
knew she was ill. You may tell me I've

killed her. I can't say no. I shall never
know whether I am sorry either ; for I
shall never know whether she would bethe
happier, living or dead. That's in
God's hands. If I had known, I would
not have spoken to her, I think. I shall
be here yet a while, if you have anything
to say to me."

He paused. Law maintained his composure,
though he had gone very white,
and his hands clenched themselves. He
looked aside, almost stealthily, at the bed
on which Lucy lay. Brian, his eyes still
fixed upon him, moved aside, as if to make
room for him to go nearer, but he did not.

You see," said the young man, after
a silence, and In an unnatural, exultant
kind of voice  "you see her, and you seeme.
You laid a trap to get everything
from me  my money, my house, my wife
all that made life worth anything tome,

and you succeeded ; you got all you
wanted. I hope you are satisfied."

He turned and went out of the room,
leaving them there. He found his way
again to the busier part of the hotel,
and as he went he began to understand
more clearly the meaning of what had
happened. He felt as if the roof and
walls would stifle him, and he went out
of the house, into the street, and walked
on and on and on, he knew not whither,
communing with himself in a strange,
excited frame of mind, which was not
grief, nor exultation, nor despair, but which
perhaps partook of them all. He knew
not what the hour was when at last he
began to feel a sense of bodily fatigue,
and discovered that he was in some quiet
suburb, with rows of neat-looking houses
on either side, and rather dim lamps
burning at considerable distances from one

another. As most of these houses were
perfectly dark and perfectly quiet, he concluded
that the night was advanced. At
last a belated " horse-car " came jingling
down the road. It was bound for the
town. He got Into it, and, crouched In a
corner, felt almost dead with exhaustion,
mental and bodily.

When at last he reached the hotel, he
found it also quiet, and no one but the
night porter about. He got to his rooni,
and at last slept the sleep of one who is
worn out. Henceforth for him life would
contain nothing very agitating. Lucy was
dead, and his story was told.

CHAPTER VII.

Lines WRITES.

I PASS over the weeks which flew by with
such rapidity after we had left our Virginian
paradise, till we found ourselves established
for a while in Philadelphia. It
would not be particularly interesting to
give full particulars of a tour through all
the best known parts of northern and
eastern America ; nor would an account
of my varying states of mind, my griefs
and my joys, my pains and my pleasures,
be much more edifying. It is enough to
say that, when we arrived at Philadelphia,
things were, apparently, much as they had
been when we left Front Royal, after my

explanation to Felix and my letter to
Maurice. I had received no answer from
the latter. I knew not whether he intended
to accept or to ignore my decision.
Despite Felix's command that I should
forget troubles and give myself up to
amusement and enjoyment, I could not
always do so. One's feelings are apt to
be unruly, however strong the curb which
may restrain them outwardly. There
were times when my enjoyment was keen
and high ; there were other times when
my heart ached so cruelly that I longed
to get away from all this, and once more
be quietly secluded at Madame Prenat's.
Oftentimes it was hard work, this rushing
about, sight-seeing, and " enjoying," with
an anxious mind and a preoccupied heart.
Elisabeth's kindness never failed me.
Felix was kind, too, but in spite of all
my struggles not to entertain what I

considered ungenerous feelings, I could
not help noticing how entirely he treated
me as Elisabeth's friend and protege.
It was all right ; it relieved us all of a
vast amount of embarrassment, but it
made me more than ever determined to
have some clear understanding about the
future. It had been settled that, after
his engagement at Philadelphia, he was
to sing in Washington for a week, then to
go once more to New York, fulfil rather
a long engagement there, and, about the
middle of January, return to England.
This was spoken of as decided, and, as
I sat listening to him at that afternoon
concert, while he sang the lovely
Greisenge-sang," I resolved that I would,
that night, get myself excused from attending
a grand reception to which we were
bidden, and write a long letter to Professor
Willoughby, in which I could joyfully tell

him that all was now settled and that I
hoped to be able to resume work with him
by the beginning of February.

We returned from the concert. Felix,
not finding Brian Holgate in his private
room, sent to inquire about him and say
that he wanted him. But he was not to
be found ; only a waiter had some idea
that he had seen the gentleman go out
about half-past six. He had left no
message and was not in his own room.

Odd ! " said Felix as we went down
into the dining-room. ''He is usually so
punctilious. I can manage, I dare say,
without him."

We dined, and returned to our sitting-room.
Elisabeth was somewhat opposed
to my remaining behind.

Oh, a truce to your musty old Professor
! " she cried, when she heard my
reason. " Let him wait. You want to

tell him about some negro words ? If he
thinks a lifetime but a bagatelle to give
to the study of Sanskrit alone, what can
he want with such frivolities as nigger
dialect?"

Let her write to him if she likes,"
said Felix, unexpectedly coming to my
assistance.

Elisabeth had again begun, " Oh,

but " when I saw him look at her,

raising his eyebrows slightly, whereupon
she became silent, with a half-smile, half-frown,
and presently observed  

'' Well, I shall have to go with you
and my father. Perhaps it is best, after
all. There will be nothing to distract
attention from my new Worth gown ; the
folk will have to use all the force of their
intellects to grasp the fact that there can
be such a thing as an Englishwoman well-dressed.
Come along."

In a few minutes they had all left the
room. I was glad that I was to be
allowed to do as I wished. I heard their
steps down the passage, and their voices
for a minute or two, then there was
silence. Our sitting-room was in a rather
quiet part of the hotel. As I at last sat
down at the table with my writing
materials, one interruption, and one only,
occurred : I heard the voice of Mrs. van
Bibber, the young Virginian lady whose
acquaintance we had made at Front Royal
and who was wintering in this same hotel,
uplifted, as she went along the hall, calling
upon her mercurial son, Dubois 

*' Dubois, Dubois, Boisey ! O Boisey ! "
No reply. The voice wandered further
away. I smiled to myself. Dubois was
probably not so far away as his unsuspecting
mother imagined. I took up my pen,
but did not at once begin to write. I

could have sat there, dreaming, the whole
evening  dreams of mingled sweetness
and bitterness ; but of late I had very
much discouraged myself from any such
waste of time. Waste of time it was forme,
I knew, and nothing else. Those
who have to face life, and work, work,
work, must not dream at first. When allis
over, when the battle has been fought
and won  or lost  then is the time for
dreams, sad or glad. I had been vigorously
inculcating this truism on my own mind,
and at last I bent in earnest over
the paper, beginning, *' Dear Professor
Willoughby." Then another pause. What
did Felix mean by raising his eyebrows
and looking, half under his eyelids, at
Elisabeth ? What did she mean by so
suddenly giving up her point ? Probably
it meant that he wished a word with her
in private, and that in the comparative

shelter of the crowded reception he hoped
to get It. Yes ; and my not being there
would make the opportunity more easy to
secure. I did not feel any resentment at
this Idea. It seemed to me the most
natural thing in the world, but my heart
ached, as It often had ached lately, and
with an almost savage feeling I wished
myself away, out of it all, and at peace.
Let them keep their beautiful friendship !
A beautiful friendship it was, and always
had been ; enough to dignify and ennoble
the lives of both, since they did not choose
to cement a closer union. They had a
right to It ; I hoped they would live in it
for years. But that did not prevent me
from feeling as if I could not bear to stand
by and see it all. I loved them both 
adored them, almost  that I would have
confessed ; but I must have had a very
bad, vicious disposition. Of late it had
VOL. in. 58

been unbearable to me to see them
together, and to feel how united, how
brave and happy they were, while I must,
from the very nature of things, remain
outside in the cold.

Stung by these thoughts, and calling

pride and self-control to my aid, which

things were always a good deal assisted by

the arrive pensive, " it won't last very much

longer now," I pushed my hair back, and

began to write in earnest ; and after a

time, I found that though not profoundly

interested in what I was saying, still I

had a good many subjects to discuss, and

was able to Drive some attention to them.

Lying beside me on the table was a

Zend grammar, to which I had been

trying to give a little attention for sometime

past. I would make a list of knotty

points which I wanted explained. How

interesting ! I would, in short, do anything

which should pass the time, employ my
hands and my head, and save me from
falling into one of those everlasting dreams,
reveries, or brooding, which always now
persisted in overtaking me whenever I
was idle, and the enervating effect of
whose treacherous sweetness I had grown
greatly to dread. I thought, holding my
pen suspended, I could tell the Professor
that it was quite settled we should return
in January ; that I was not going to be
married ; that I was free, and should be at
liberty when I returned to England to
undertake for him without fear of interruption
any work that he wished me to do.

Again I was smiling, a little bitterly, as
I thought these thoughts. At the same
moment I heard a step outside. The
door-handle was turned. I sat still, staring
in utter surprise at Felix, who came into
the room, looking at me with an expression

I could not quite understand. At last I
asked 

*' Have you come away from the
party ? "

'' No," he said, coming up to me and
standing beside me, " I have not. I never
went."

Never went ? Not when you went
out with Elisabeth and Mr. Reichardt?"

No," he said, rather impatiently; 'not
when I went out with Elisabeth and Mr.
Reichardt. How frightfully matter of fact
you are."

I was silent. My theory of his wishing
to have an interview with Elisabeth was
thus shattered to pieces. Then I became
conscious that he was still looking at me.
Then I was aware of a rapid beating of
my heart, and of a wonder and a bewilderment
as he went on, in his deep soft voice,
and with his rather slow intonation, for

Felix, while never behindhand, was never
in a hurry 

'' I fully intended going. I don't know
what they will think of me. The only
chance of escape was the fact that as the
party was not given expressly on my
account, I could stay away without exciting
deadly passions. Yes, I meant to go ; but
when I found that you were not going,
that suited me better still, and I stayed."

In this speech there were certainly
several robust, full-blown contradictions
and inconsistencies, which occurred to me
afterwards. All I found to say in reply
to it at that moment was, in a hesitating
and embarrassed manner 

'' What have I to do with it ? "

'* Ah, I knew you would ask that," he
said, smiling.

And I began to wonder what had
happened to him ; but, all the time, that

Strange, excited beating of my heart never
stopped. As for Felix, whatever he may
have felt, he was not the man to lose his
head and look foolish. He saw my expression
of wonder, and began to laugh a
little.

You look surprised. I expect you will
be still more so, and will think me an
absolute maniac, when I tell you that we
have never finished that conversation we
had a few months ago, soon after you
came. You may have forgotten all about
it"  [*' No ! " I murmured, under my
breath. I knew what he meant. I had
not forgotten a word of it.]  '' but I have
not. I have been such a slave to this
touring about and party giving, and the
show business * in general, that I have
never been able to call an hour my own.
To-night I resolved to break my bonds,
and finish the discussion, if you will," he

added in a gentle tone, which caused
something to catch unpleasantly in my
throat.

** I  but we settled everything then.
You oh, you surely did send that letter
to Maurice ! " I cried, a sudden apprehension
seizing me.

*' Oh yes, I sent the letter to Maurice.
And I had one from him, thanking me for
my  intercession for him."

You did not tell me that."

Why should I have told you ? Are
you not satisfied with the pain the poor
fellow has had ? "

I merely looked at him. I was angry.

'' I beg your pardon. Do not scorch
me out of existence altogether. Let us
proceed. I sent him the letter. And I
beg you will observe how honourably I am
behaving even now. I gave you, in my
own mind, an hour in which to write your

letter, and I have been patiently sitting In
my business-room, without anything todo
except read a Seaside Library novel,
pirated from England, and wait. And
here you are at it yet. You must have
been ' talking a blue streak ' on all those
sheets of paper. I would give something
to know what you can possibly have to say
to that most excellent but most knotty and
crabbed of savants!'

There is what I have said to him,"
said I. '' You can read it all if you like."

He glanced at one of the sheets and
shook his head, smiling as he drew a chair
to the side of the table and placed himself
in it. There was a lamp on this table.
It was just behind him, and shone straight
upon my face.

'' No, no ! Such small writing, and so
much of it, with all those curious little
characters Interspersed. It is no doubt

very interesting to you and to him, but
quite above my head, as I have often told
you before."

I said nothing. Formerly I had always
contradicted this statement aloud ; but
formerly I had done many things which I
now did no more.

'' I have often observed," he went on,
'' that if one can do one thing well and
be not a complete fool in other respects,
one gets a reputation for being clever all
round. I have such a reputation amongst
some of my friends, but fortunately I know
my true worth, or worthlessness, better
than they do."

'' I have heard that you know a great
deal more than you pretend, about some
things," said I, not looking at him.
French history, in "

'* Oh, don't let us be personal ! " he said,
quickly interrupting me. " Seriously, I

should like to have a talk with you, if you
will permit it. Do you object ? "

Certainly not," I replied, once more
frozen by his assumption of the grownup
tone towards me  ceremonious and
dignified. It might have been natural
enough if I had been a stranger, but it
always embarrassed me seriously when I
reflected upon our real relations. For,
with a deep-seated instinct, I knew that
only so long as in his eyes I was a child
could I tolerate those relations at all.

*' Well, have you any idea how much
you have changed, since we parted after
the festival at Kirkfence ? "

You said so, when we first met."
'rand don't you feel it yourselves"
Yes. I was a child then ; now I ama
grown-up person."

'rand which would you rather be?
which do you enjoy the most ? "

** Each state has Its advantages," I said
oracularly.

That nloht at Baltimore," he went on,
how you startled me ! I can't describe
it. I went into the room, and saw no one
at first. Then I perceived a wild buzzing
of mosquitoes, and then I saw the person
who had recklessly let them in, with her
back towards me, leaning out of the
window. I recognized the way in which
you do your hair  you haven't changed
that  and the shape of your neck and
shoulder, and I said joyfully to myself,
Oh, here is Ines ! ' and I put my hand on
your shoulder quite naturally, didn't I } "

"It was done not unnaturally, so far as
I know," I said, with rather a nervous
laugh, wondering why he would go into
all these  to me  embarrassing details.

** I expected  for one forgets how people
can change, at your age, and I had leda

busy life since I crossed the Atlantic 
I expected to see my little girl turn and
look at me, and instead of that "

I looked at him inquiringly. I was
really curious to know what he had seen,
or thought he had seen, instead of his lite
girl.

'' I was confronted by a stately, and I
may say, haughty-looking young lady 
so different, so utterly different. I felt as
if I had committed an unpardonable
freedom in touching you. I give you my
word, I was never more abashed in my
life. So self-possessed, you were ; so still,
and pale, and proud-looking ! Your eyes,
your expression  everything about you,
was so altered. I did not know what to
say to you. I told Lisa so, afterwards.
She said it was exactly what she had
expected to hear."

He ceased, and then I knew that he had

been speaking much more rapidly than
usual, and with something like vehemence,
though in a low voice. " Still, and pale,
and proud," seemed to ring in my ears, as
I aimlessly turned over the leaves of my
book. What extraordinary language to
address to me ! Was it a reproach ? What
was I to say ?

'rand so grave," he went on. 'since
then I have learnt that the pride was only
skin-deep  at least to me ; and I ungrateful
It was crushing at first."

I think it is cruel of you to say that
to me," I said, in great agitation. " As If
/ proud  and to you ! " I could hardly
restrain my tears, and my voice shook.

I don't mean that it was at all what
one calls ' nasty pride,' " he went on, and
I thought I heard a laugh In his voice.
"It is only a part of yourself, and when
I had got over the first shock of it, I rather

liked it. But the gravity  are you always
grave now ? "

'' I don't know that I am particularly
grave''

But you are. You are very grave.
And I think you feel very grave sometimes,
don't you ? "

Surely every one must, who has begun
to think, and understand things."

Think, and understand things ! I
wonder what that means ? We are now
coming to what I wished to talk about.
What have you thought about, what do
you understand, that should give you that
almost melancholy gravity ? "

'' I'm sorry if I am so depressing."

*' I never said you were depressing. I
perceive you can be malicious. What a
reproachful look ! Indeed, I am not jesting
with you. May I tell you what I think
you mean ? "

*'Ohyes."

As you say, you have passed from a
child  or almost a child  into a woman,
and you have had to begin to think about
things. Maurice made you think about
things, didn't he ? "

I tried to nod my head. I could not
speak. But I planted my elbows firmly
on the table and shielded my face with
my left hand, feeling desperate. What
had prompted him to come and put mt
through a catechism like this ? It was
horrible. I wished that the others would
return before their time, or that " Boisey "
would, as was his wont sometimes, burst
into the room, clatter madly round it, and
go out again  that anything would happen
which should give me an excuse for moving
away from the scrutiny under which I felt
myself sitting. But nothing did happen,
and Felix went on, unperturbed.

'* Yes, just as I thought ! You need not
cover up your face in that way. That
story with Maurice is over and done.
Still, it made you think about things, as
you admit. As for understanding them,
I want to get to the bottom of that idea,
too. When you found that Lisa spoke
favourably of this marriage, and when
you found that I, without asking you
anything about it, gave my consent  I
speak as a monitor and guardian  then
you thought you understood that your
oldest friend, Ines  your oldest friend,
who has never had one thought towards
you but of kindness  wanted, to use your
own harsh expression, to ' get rid of you ' ?
that was what in your wisdom you
understood, was it not ? "

I had nothing to say, not a word.

You could credit the idea, and give it
house-room, though you had promised to

trust him, and had sworn you did trust him
that after he had cared for you and been
fond of you and proud of you for twelve
years, he could then, suddenly and without
a cause, feel sick and tired of you, and
eagerly seize upon the first opportunity 
decent  that offered, to relieve himself of
the burden which you had become to him."
'* You are cruel ! " I said, suddenly uncovering
my face, which I felt to be
burning hot, and looking at him with passionate
remonstrance. *' You can put it
all in that way, and it sounds very welland
there is something in it, too. I have
never been worthy of anything you have
done for me. Perhaps I knew that ; but
you can't see ; you don't see. You say I
am no longer a child  oh, cannot you
understand that a child may take things
from a man which no woman who is not
helpless may, unless he is her  relation, of
VOL. ni. 59

some sort ? Oh," I went on, shaking from
head to foot in my emotion, " I think I
shall die if you talk to me in this way,
telling me I am grown-up, and then rebuking
me for not going on as if I were
still a baby. What have I done ? What
have I done ? Proud ! It would become
me to be proud ! I can't bear it ! '*

'ones!"

I looked at him for a moment, wildly if
my looks were like my feelings. I saw
that he was very grave, his lips set, his
eyes searching me with a new and unknown
expression. I could not read it all,
but it seemed to me as if there was something
like exultation in it. And, starting
aside from the subject we had been discussing,
he suddenly said, in a low voice which
caused me to tremble with another feeling, 

If you had accepted Maurice, I should
have hated you."

I drew a long breath. And, almost
without a pause, he went on 

We shall get to the truth by degrees.
So you had all these unspeakable feelings
and, without saying a word to me, you
went and made arrangements with the
Professor. May his shadow never be less,
and after his death may he have a marble
tomb covered with inscriptions from the
Rig Veda, if that would give him any
satisfaction ! And you were going to be an
independent young woman, as so many
young women are nowadays  ' on your
own hook,' if you will excuse the fearful
levity of the expression."

"If I was, I  and the other young
women  perhaps felt ourselves obliged to
be so. Not all girls have fathers and
mothers to look after them."

** I meant no unkindness to you  or to
the other young women. Whenever I sec

08 FROM MOOR ISLES.

a woman walking alone and honestly
through the world, I feel Inclined to stand
aside and take off my hat to her as she
goes by. But you will own that this was
what you purposed ? "

Yes, it was."

And you did not take into consideration
what I might say or wish ? "

I hung my head. I was convinced that
he knew perfectly well what my motives
had been, and was taking advantage of me.
But I could not prevent it.

You did not. Did Lisa tell you that
I had a long talk with her about you, and
that she upheld your course ? "

* She did approve ? Thank God ! No,
she did not tell me."

'' She told me I might manage this affair
for myself. Lisa was very hard upon me
very. I may say, brutal."

- Was she ? "

'' Yes, she was. Ines ! "

Again I looked up and met his eyes,
and realized that that proud reticence and
self-command of which I had felt so secure,
and which I had promised myself should
never fail me, in relation to him, hardly
depended on myself alone. I clasped my
hands under my chin, fixed my eyes upon
the grammar which lay open before me,
and said to myself 

''If you do fail, and degrade and make
a fool of yourself now, you will deserve a
whipping ; and in some shape or other you
shall have it. A fitting reward for his
goodness to you, to let him see what your
self-love and self-indulgence have led you
to  drivelling sentimentality. How he
would hate any girl to make an ass of
herself about him in this way ; and you
unprovoked and outrageously to do thus !
No ; if you give way now, you shall never
know again what self-respect is ! "

After this fearful tumult in my own
mind, his words seemed to come cool and
quiet, as he said 

I think we are getting to the end of
our explanation now. You had come to a
crisis in your life. There were the usual
three courses ' open to you. The first
was to marry your cousin  you declined.
The second was, since you would have
some change, to go to Professor Willoughby,
as you purposed, and have the proud consciousness
of being independent and 
happy, we'll hope. Do you think you
would have been happy ? "

I shook my head speechlessly.

'the third  I would have told you
before of the third, only you have repelled
me so by your steady, consistent coldness,
ever since we met. You shake your head.
Ah, but it is true. You have been ice tome
and, like a fool, I have loved you the

better for It. Ines, do not be so hard 
look at me. I ask you only to look at me ! "
I wondered dimly what people looked
like who really felt hard, If I was considered
to look hard now. But I raised my eyes
to his face, and looked at him without
trenching.

'' Do you not think," he said, with slow
distinctness, *' that you could make up
your mind to let that excellent scholar find
another secretary, and you "

"And I ?" I said somehow. '' Tell me
what you wzs/i me to do. You have never
told me that yet."

And you stay with me  always."

*' Stay with " I began.

Don't look at me like that ! " he exclaimed,
almost angrily. " Don't look
down at me as If I had said something
beyond description insulting to you ! Am
I so utterly repulsive to you . " (His

voice suddenly changed, and I sat as if
transfixed.) '' You have been dear to me
for twelve long years, but now  this time
only, I know what you will always be tome."
A pause. 'you look at me as if
you would crush me, but you shall not ;
you must hear it now. Listen ! I believe
you ivill not believe me."

He rose suddenly, stooped over me as I
sat at the end of the table, and in a low
but distinct voice spoke some sentences tome
in words which, as I listened to them,
swept away every chance of misconception,
doubt, or misunderstanding ; which burnt
into my heart and left me face to face
with the truth. As these words reached
my consciousness, my eyes saw no more
the books or the papers, or any of the
objects around me  nothing but a white
blank, and my pulses stood still.

He ceased, and there was a little silence.

Then I knew that he laid a hand upon
mine, and said 

Now, I have told you. And you ?"

Again there was a silent pause, till he
asked, in a voice that strove to be steady 

** You heard what I said ? "

'' Yes," I whispered.

*' Speak to me, then. Don't go on
torturing me. Can't you tell me the same
thing, now, or  some time ? "

With a deep sigh I lifted up his hand,
and pressed my cheek upon it.

Ines, how long will you keep me
waiting ? "

'' You know it," I said ; and it cost me
agony to make the avowal, though I knew
all that I had gained, and was resolved to
speak the truth. '* It cannot be that you
do not know it. You say I have been
torturing you. It was because I feared I
was telling you what you want to know,

every time I looked at you or spoke to
you.

** And you hate to admit it ? How like
you. But you do admit it ? Ines, I'll
never doubt it or you, as long as I live."

CHAPTER VIII.

FROM MOOR ISLES.

Ox another October night, years and years
after these things had happened had passed
and gone, and had become almost as a tale
that is told, the south-west wind was again
rioting across hill and dale, was rushing
with wild strength up the slopes of Raven-side
Hill, and striking the summit of it,
much as it had done at a later hour that
nioht on which Brian Tolerate had returned
home at midnight from the Irkford concert.
On this occasion the darkness of midnight
was not over the scene ; the hour,
indeed, was comparatively early, between
nine and ten in the evening. There was

in the sky a pallid moon, which sometimes
gleamed forth for a few minutes when the
rack parted and allowed it to show. It
shone fitfully upon the walls and roof of
Moor Isles, and showed the gate leading
to the door of the farm. Save the roar
of the wind, there was no sound to disturb
the quietness of the night. In the great
kitchen of the farm, there were the glowing
red remains of what had been a large
hot fire. At some little distance from it,
out of the shadow of the Ingle, sat Alice
Ormerod beside a little round table with
a lamp on it. A book was in her hand,
and she had been quietly reading for sometime.


The lamp, though bright enough just
beside her, did not penetrate far into the
gloom of the immense kitchen. Deep
cavernous recesses were filled with black
shadows. Here and there the light caught

one of the great beams of the celHng, but
the general effect was that of spacious
darkness, illumined by the one small lamp
and the red glow from the fire.

Alice has not altered much during the
seven or eight years which have passed
since you saw her. Her beauty is of the
kind that wears well, and also she has a
strong soul with which to resist the ravages
of grief and time. There is a look of
stately, well-to-do repose about her just
now ; perhaps her present occupation best
shows the difference between what she
was and what she has become. Seven
years ago she would not have sat for more
than an hour engrossed in a book. Her
face, though undoubtedly grave and more
set, is very little altered ; the fashion of
her hair, the simple style of her plain black
gown, are all just as they used to be.

As a louder gust of wind rushed wildly

past the windows, it seemed to rouse her.
Her book drooped a little backwards. She
raised her head and listened.

It's a wild night' she thought, "and
getting on for half-past nine. I must go
and see if that lad has all he wants before
he goes to sleep."

At that moment, her attention became
suddenly fixed and absorbed. Her eyes
dilated. She laid her book upon the
table, and sat, wide-eyed, gazing into the
darkness and listening.

A low knocking was audible at the
door, and then both the dogs in the yard
began to bark loudly. Ferran, now well-advanced
into middle life, who had been
lying at her feet, pricked up his ears, and
began to growl angrily.

What's it all about ? " she half-muttered
to herself, and then rose and went to the
door.

She was discreet and cautious, but not
nervous for an Instant. It was not often
that an unknown hand knocked at their
door at that hour. The said door was
secured by a chain as well as by a great
bolt. The latter she undid, and, leaving
the chain on, opened the heavy old oaken
door and, drawing it back as far as the
chain would allow, asked 

- Who's there ? "

She saw indistinctly a man's figure in*
the darkness, and there was a slight pause
before the visitor said a single word 

Alice ! "

As she heard it, her heart sprang to her
throat. With eager, trembling hands she
began to undo the chain, and simultaneously
Ferran set up a wild whimpering, scratching
and crying. At last, in about two
seconds, which seemed to her an eternity,
the door was flung as wide as it could

go, the wayfarer's hand was seized in
both hers ; he was drawn into the house ;
Ferran, with a shriek of delight and
recognition, sprang upon him, and AHce
spoke in a voice almost choked with
feeling 

*' Brian, Brian, you have come home
to us !

Then he was inside, in the warmth and
the shelter ; the door closed between him
and the storm. She had led, or pushed, or
dragged him within the effluence of the
lamp's rays ; she was holding his hand
still, and looking, looking, without the
power of uttering another word, with a
strange, excited emotion that made her
whole frame feel weak and feeble, but filled
her heart with strength and gladness.

He who had gone away a brokenhearted
boy, now stands confronting her 
a tall, grown man, whose shoulders are

broad, whose strength Is great, whose
once smooth face, though still shaven, is
hollowed with the lines and inequalities of
maturity, whose fair skin is bronzed and
roughened, and whose blue eyes, looking
out of his much-changed countenance with
startling effect, are the only things about
him which have remained the same. They
seem to Alice like ghosts.

*' So you knew me again  you remembered
my voice ? " he said, in deep soft'
tones. '' It's more than ever I deserved.
And this poor old fellow, too. Ferran, old
lad, I do believe thought glad to see me."

'' Did you ever doubt that we should
be glad to see you ? " she asked. She had
seated herself now and, though her heart
was still wildly beating, she had managed
to draw a veil of composure over her face.
It was only her eyes which could not
conceal their delight. She scanned him

VOL. in. 60

from head to foot. He looked strong,
healthy, prosperous. There was no sign
of poverty or distress about him. What
had made him choose this hour for coming ?

I should never have doubted, Alice, if
I'd ever allowed myself to think about it
at all. But I never did, till a few months
ago ; and then so many little things
happened, one after another, making it
plain that it was best for me to come
across and get them settled, that I made
up my mind to face it  and here I am."

*' And where do you come from ? " she
asked quickly. '' Sit you down there and
tell me." She seized another log and
threw it upon the fire, which quickly
blazed up with brilliance.

He named a rich young giant city of
far-western America.

*rand do you live there now? That's
in " She named the state.

I've lived there for five years now, and
I suppose I shall go back and stay there
till I die. I seemed to hit on a way of
earning my living, somehow: It was hardwork
that I wanted. It settles you down,
does a bit of hard work. When I first got
there, it was two years after she " (in a
whisper) 'died. You heard about that,
Alice?"

** Yes. Mrs. Reichardt told me."

*' At the end of those two years, Alice'
I seemed to feel as badly as I had done
at the beginning of them. They had
been so kind to me. Mr. Arkwright  I'll
never forget his goodness  he never spoke
an impatient word to me all that time that
I was so dazed and helpless, though he
had all my work to do, and he'd just got
engaged to Miss Grey, and must have
wished me at Jericho many a time."

He was happy," said Alice, quietly;

'' It would have been a shame if he
couldn't have dealt gently by one in
sorrow."

** He did deal gently by me, anyhow.

As for Mrs. Reichardt " He paused.

There was a catch in his voice.
Alice nodded. " Ay, I know."
** I felt as if I was a curse to myself and
every one else. I couldn't think of anyone
who was the happier or the better for
knowing me, but nearly every one was the
worse, in some way or other. I stopped
with them till they left America. I
promised Mrs. Reichardt to write to her,
but I broke my word. I'd nothing good
to tell her. It would have been easy
many a time to make away with myself
while I was wandering up and down, and
for no one to be the wiser. Perhaps,"
he added, with a smile at once sad and
shrewd, '' that was why I didn't do it."

And how did you come to feel better,
then ? " she asked eagerly. " But you've
come to stay, haven't you, Brian ? Why
don't you take off your coat ? I can have
father's room ready for you in ten minutes.
Oh, Brian, father is dead ! Dear old
father ! Did you know ? "

Dead ! Nay, I knew nothing. I want
to know all. But I can't stay, Alice. I'm
bound to go away from here again tonight.
It's a sort of forbidden luxury, this
visit. I meant to be hard and strong, anti
not come ; but I gave way in the end. I
felt as if I must travel over the old road
once again, and have a look at the old
place. It will be my last. Dead ! He
was always so kind to me, was your father
Are you in black for him now ? Is it only
a short time ago ? "

'* It is three years ago now. He died
quite suddenly and quietly. He'd said tome

many a time when we used to walk
home from church together, ' Ails, I've
often wondered why they say in the
Prayer-book, *' From battle, murder, and
sudden death'' like as if they were one as
bad as the other.' So he had his wish,
and died quite suddenly. He left Andy
and me so that we need not have gone on
with the farm, but we couldn't bear to
leave it. We took it on. It's something
for him to think about and for me to do.
It keeps us up many a time when we
should be sad, but for that. But go on ;
tell me more. Prow did you get to that
city ? "

*' I'll tell you afterwards. I'm just
thirsting to know one or two things.
There's Moor Isles, Alice ; does any one
live at my old house ? "

'' It's your house yet, Brian, and always
will be, thank God ! When Richard Law

came home from America, after  you
know  he was quite quiet for a long time.
No one ever heard him say that he had
felt it much ; he isn't one to let on about
his feelings, but some of us think he had,
for all that. One day he came up here,
and he said to Sarah Stott and me that
he'd nothing more to do with it. It wasn't
his, really ; we could see after it ourselves,
as we were your friends, and as for him,
he washed his hands of it. Well, we were
thankful to get rid of him on any terms,
and knowing that you and I could never
quarrel over it, I took on myself to behave
as if it was mine, Brian. What do you
think of that ? "

I think it was just like your goodness.
Well ? "

So I saw after it, and had it kept aired
and tidy. And one day in the spring
Mrs. Reichardt came up. She'd come

over from Irkford to see me and tell me
everything she could about you, and others
as well. Eh, but she is good ; such a kind
heart she has, and she never hurts anyone's
feelings. She always seems to know
what to say to you, and how to say it too.
So she stayed all day, and we talked
nearly the whole time ; and when she went
away, I felt Td found one that would never
change to me. I told her everything that
had happened to us. And it was after
that a bit that I saw her again, and she
proposed to me that, if I approved  she
said she was sure you would if I did  she
would rent Moor Isles from me, as your
agent, like. I was glad. I knew you'd
say yes to that, if you knew. And it's all
right. There's all the accounts and everything
quite correct. She said she had a
great fancy for the place. She said she'd
like to have me for a neighbour, and she

told me, too, that she wanted some such
place, that it was a rest only to be in, not
only for herself, but for Mr. and Mrs.
Arkwright, whenever they wanted to come."

'* They got married, then ? " he asked,
with a sad, half smile.

"Yes, directly after they got back to
England. She's never tired of talking
about them. She says they're the dearest
things she has in the world, and I don't
wonder she loves them."

Ay, I could see what was going on
there, in the midst of my own misery," said
Brian, musingly. " I remember how Mr.
Arkwright was a changed man from that
very night of their landing  from the time
he saw Miss Grey again. After they were
engaged, Mrs. Reichardt told me how he'd
always been in the habit of thinking hera
mere child, with having adopted her
from the time she was a baby, and when

he saw her again after two years, grown
into such a stately and beautiful young
woman, he  well, we all could see. I
believe Miss Grey was the only one that
didn't, till he made it plain to her. So
they come here sometimes ? "

*they come here often. At first they
used to come alone, or with Mrs. Reichardt ;
and they come alone now sometimes, but
very often they send their two little ones
with their governess and maids, and I can
tell you Mrs. Reichardt spends a deal of
her time here then. Of course they live
in London, but he doesn't sing as much
as he used to do. He has a great deal
to do about some school of sinorino-  I
never know what it is. Oh, but what I
meant to say was, Mrs. Reichardt said she
would keep all the old things in the house ;
there's not one gone, though there's some
new ones come in. She said, if ever you

came back, it would be ready for you.
She thought you would not object."

Object ! " he echoed. " It's the best
bit of news IVe heard this many a day 
that there are good people and little
children who come to my house and are
happy there. I'll see Mrs. Reichardt about
it. I have business in Irkford, and the
least I can do is to go and apologize to
her for not writing. There's only one
thing to prevent me from offering it to
her if she'd like to buy it, or take it on an
endless lease, or something of that kind."

And what's that ? " she asked him.
The fire was flickering ; the light was
uncertain ; but it shone into her eyes as
she looked at him, and it shone upon his
face, lined and thoughtful, turned towards
the blaze, as he leaned forward, his elbows
on his knees.

That some time or other my own little

child  my boy Brian, when he is grownup,
might feel that I had done wrong to
him in not giving him a chance of having
it for his own. He knows that I have an
old house in England, and that I was
going to see it, and his mother, for all she
is an American, never lets him forget that
he has an English father."

There was a pause, not so very long
as to be noticeable. Then Alice said,
in a voice scarcely altered from the
one in which she had all along been
speaking 

"Brian, you might think I knew by
instinct everything that had happened to
you all this time. Do you mean that you
are married ? "

*' By George ! Of course you couldn't
know. How stupid of me! Yes; and
that was how I came to myself after that
dreadful time. After I'd settled in this

business house at , I met the sister of

one of the other fellows there, Ferris, his
name was. She was called Anne Ferris 
Nannie, they always called her. I don't
know how it came about exactly. I found
she was as good as an angel to me. I
think it was once when she went away fora
time that I learnt how much she meant
in my life. I told her everything that had
happened  the whole story, and concealed
nothing from her. I even told her about
Lucy, and that there could never be anyone
the same to me as she had been, and
I asked her, could she take me, knowing
it all, and she consented. It was wonderful."

('' Lucy was dead," was the thought
concealed by Alice's half smile.)

We have been married four years," he
went on, *sand that one boy is our only
child. She is a good woman, if ever one
lived."

Another pause.

So many things happen when people
have been parted for so long," she said.
And are you happy ? "

I'm contented, when I don't think too
much of what's past and gone. Yes, and
sometimes I am happy, I think. And you
see why it would not be right in me to
part with Moor Isles altogether."

Oh yes, I see. You are quite right,"
said Alice, almost in a whisper.

** And poor old-sally ? " he asked.

She lives between here and Moor
Isles. She's getting very feeble, and past
her work, but Mrs. Reichardt is very kind
to her, and will never turn her away."

She's an angel. But I'll see that she
is not put to expense in the matter. I'll
settle all that. I'm going to Irkford tomorrow.
And Andy, Alice, where is he,
and how ? "

''He's much the same. He gets no
stronger. Sometimes he's better, and
sometimes he's worse. To-day he has
been very poorly, and in bed all day."

She did not offer to take him to Andrew,
nor did he ask to go.

'' And you, Alice," he said. '' You look
well. I hope you're happy, as you deserve
to be."

Oh, I'm well enough," she said tranquilly.
'' I've been much happier since
Mrs. Reichardt and her friends came up
here. They've been so good to me  told
me things, and lent me books, and we are
friends  yes, they are real friends. You
can always get on when you have
friends."

I should have thought  I felt almost
sure I should find you were married," he
said, with rather a sad smile.

*' Why ? " she asked deliberately. " Did

you ever hear of any one as I wanted to
have ? "

No ; but there must have been many
who wanted to have you."

He paused. Whether some faint gleam
of the truth was borne Into his mind by
the mere fact of their having spoken
together on the subject, who shall say ?
He finished his sentence in a kind of
embarrassment ; but she replied, calmly
and cheerfully 

There have been some, Brian  one or
two  poor things ! But I never felt as
if any one of them could tempt me away

from this. You may believe me, I'm best

I J)
am.

'' I believe you speak the truth, as you

always did," he said, rising. " I must go

away now. I'm going to walk back into

Hollowley. But first, Alice, come with

me into the Moor Isles garden, that I

may look across, and feel the wind that
comes blowing from those moors. It
doesn't come off Ravenside to-night. I'm
fain to stand In the old garden once again."
She rose. "Yes, I'll go with you. But
listen, Brian. I've thought of some little
things I could like to send to your wife
and your little boy, If  did you tell her

you once had a friend "

'' Oh, she knows all about you, Alice,
and everything that you've done for me !
She says  no, never mind what she sayst
But she does say you must be just lovely,
and she sent her love to you."

Very well. You can give mine to her.
Tell her I'll give her a welcome when she
ever comes to Moor Isles. You must
leave me your address, and I'll send the
things to you before you sail again.
They'll like them, because they come from
your old home. Now we can go out."

VOL. III. 6 1

They went out, Alice casting a shawl
over her head and shoulders. They
passed out of the farmyard and into the
Moor Isles garden. All was still. It was
now half-past ten, and the servants had
gone to bed. Softly she led the way to
the bottom of the garden, and opened the
gate which led into the great sloping
pasture. They stood there, side by side,
and the soft, delicious wind blew wildly
about them. Then the clouds parted, and
showed great swells of moorland sleeping
dark under the stormy sky, with the nearer
fields and uplands, and the lines of twinkling
lights travelling up the hills in all
directions from, the town in the valley
below.

'' Oh," he suddenly exclaimed, with a
kind of passion in his choked voice,  *' oh,
God ! It's my home, Alice ! It's my home !
I never knew till now what It meant tome.

I believe I love it better than wife
or child, or anything living. I think I was
a fool to come back to it." He dropped
on to his knees on the ground, bent to the
grassy embankment by which they were
standing, pressed his face upon it, kissed
the earth of it, and took some green leaves
into his hand. But on rising, he threw
them down, saying, ** No, I won't carry so
much as a blade of grass with me ; it
might witch me back again here. Come
away ! " 

In a few minutes they stood together
beside the farmhouse door.

*' Good-bye, Alice. There's nothing else
to say. I shall think of this night many
a time, to the end of my Hfe."

'' You won't come in again ? " she asked,
pushing open the door.

No, no."

They stood for a moment, holding each

Other's hands fast, till he again said, in an
unsteady voice 

Good-bye."

And she answered, in a sweet and steady
tone, " Good-bye, Brian. I am glad you
came. God bless you ! "

THE END,



PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. G., C. &> Co.

#
