CHAPTER I.

OTHO'S RETURN.

It was a dull morning in October, with a
gray sky, low-hanging clouds, and muddy
lanes. The Tees Valley Hunt breakfasted
that morning at Sir Thomas Winthrop's,
and the brothers, Michael and Gilbert
Langstroth, rode slowly in company towards
the house. Michael was now twenty-five,
and Gilbert just turned twenty-three.
They had ridden and hunted ever since
they had been able to stick on the back of
a pony, and, despite their changed fortunes
for the house of Lanostroth was no morea
flourishing house  they rode and hunted
still. They felt a deeper degree of interest

than usual in this particular breakfast, for
it was known to them, as to all the rest of
the neighbourhood, that the long-closed
doors of Thorsgarth had at last been thrown
open ; Otho Askam's minority was over,
and he had come, or was on his way, to
take possession of the house of his fathers,
and the abundant revenues and possessions
which had been accumulating for him. It
was now several months since he had come
of age, but he had not immediately repaired
to his home. Now, Otho Askam, Michael
and Gilbert Langstroth, and their friend,
Roger Camm, had all played together as
children in the Thorsgarth garden, had
shouted through its avenues, chased each
other amongst its discoloured marble fauns
and nymphs, and almost succeeded, more
than once, in drowning themselves in
the waters of swiftly-rushing Tees, who
flowed beneath the lowest terrace of the
o-arden. That had been more than ten
years ago, and many changes had taken

place since then. The Askam fortunes
had accumulated; the deaths of both Mr.
and Mrs. Askam had left their children 
Otho, and a girl, Eleanor, several years
younger than him  under the care of guardians,
while their property increased. The
Langstroths, on the contrary, had gone
downhill to a certain extent. Poor then,
they had become poorer since, till now,
Mr. Langstroth, their father, was a hopeless,
helpless invalid ; Michael, the elder,
was by way of earning his living as a
country doctor, this chance having been
given to him by the kindness of the old
family friend and adviser, the little Quaker
Doctor Rowntree, whose assistant Michael
was supposed to be. Gilbert stayed at
home, tended his father, and devoted his
distinguished arithmetical powers to an
endeavour to extricate the family fortunes
in some degree from the confusion into
which they had fallen. As for Roger
Camm, whose father had been the curate

of Bradstane-on Tees, he had vanished
for years past from the scenes of his childhood
; but he and Michael, who had been
friends in those former days, were friends
still, keeping up a close correspondence.
And if Roger by any chance imagined
that Gilbert had forgotten him, he was
mistaken. Gilbert Langstroth had a long
memory.

It was not only these brothers who
looked forward with interest to the possibility
of young Askam's presence at the
meet that morning. All the country-side
was more or less agog on the subject.
Thorsgarth was a very considerable house ;
the Askams were very considerable people
in the neighbourhood. Every one was
excited ; many fair creatures had gone sofar
as to say that they were " dying to see
him," dying to know what he was like,
and if he were going to be an acquisition,
or not, to their society. People began to
recall things, and to say to one another,

'' Ay, I remember how his mother used to
ride to hounds ; what a woman she was !
How handsome, and what a temper ! "
And then the voices would sink a little,
while for the benefit of some stranger it
would be related how the late Mrs. Askam
had come to her untimely end ; how she
would go out one day, despite her husband's
expostulations ; how she put her
horse at a certain fence, which he refused ;
how she flogged him on till he unwillingly
took the leap, and caught his legs
in the top rail, pitching his rider head-foremost
off him ; and how Mrs. Askam
was carried home with a broken neck.

Half forgot ten things like these were
talked about. Amongst all the wondering
and speculation there was little kindness,
little personal feeling. There was no
matron who said, '' Ah, his mother and
I used to be great friends ; I know I shall
like him for her sake." For, as a matter
of fact, this reckless young woman, who

had SO untimely died, had not made many
friends during the years of her married
Hfe in Bradstane. Therefore, every one
wondered ; no one really cared what sort
of young man Otho Askam might be.

Michael and Gilbert rode slowly on
through the deep lanes with their tangled
hedges (for some of the folk thereabouts
were not as particular about their clipping
as they might have been) In the damp
morning air, and, emerging from the lanes,
struck the stony road, with its rough walls,
over which they had to travel to arrive at
Bristle HaH, Sir Thomas's place. They
were to look at, as goodly a pair of brethren
as any in whose company they were
likely that day to find themselves.

"Is Magdalen coming to the meet ? "
asked Gilbert suddenly.

"Yes. She's driving Mrs. Steamer to It.
She's staying with Miss Strangforth, and
Magdalen doesn't know what on earth todo
with her."

"Ah ! " said Gilbert, with his slight, careless
smile. "A meet must be a godsend
under such circumstances." And by-and-by
he made some further observation, to
the effect that it was a picture of a day,
and that the scent would be grand, to
which Michael assented cheerfully ; and
having got that question settled, they rode
up to the hospitable door, delivered their
horses over to a groom, and were shown
into the dinner-room.

Sir Thomas and his son Byrom were
there, and the room was full of men, old,
young, and middle-aged, standing about,
waiting till their host should give the
signal to be seated.

It was immediately on going into the
room that they saw Otho Askam  for he
it must be, and no one else  leaning his
elbow on the shelf of an oak sideboard,
and listening to some remarks of a neighbouring
squire. He was at one end of
the room as they entered, and they at the

Other ; but It so happened that there was
a Httle lane or vista from him to them, so
that they saw him very plainly.

They looked upon a tall yoimg man,
as big, as strong, and as broad as themselves
; and there all resemblance ended.
It would have been difficult to say whether
that face were young or old for its years.
Young Askam had a round, bullet-shaped
head, a dark complexion, and one which
was also red  a deep, but not yet a coarse
red. His forehead, though narrow, was
not devoid of power. His smooth dark
hair was clipped close. He wore a slight
moustache, a mere line on his upper lip,
save for which his face was hairless, so
that the full play of his lips was seen ;
and there was something fierce in the
expression of those lips ; indeed, the whole
face was a strange and fierce one. The
dark eyes were sullen ; the brows had a
trick of drawing down and together,
quickly and savagely, and then the whole

face flushed, and the mouth tightened, and
the fingers closed with a suggestive grip
upon whatever might happen to be in
them at the moment. It was truly an
angry-looking face, devoid of beauty ; and
yet, if one came to analyze the features, it
would be found impossible to pronounce
it a plain face. The voice, the manners,
were such as might be expected from the
general outward appearance ; that is to say,
the voice was abrupt, the sentences curt,
and the words often chopped off short in
utterance ; the manners were brusque, and
had a touch of defiance in them.

At the moment when the Langstroths
entered the room, Otho had his eyes fixed
upon his whip, which he was drawing
slowly through the fingers of his left hand.
He smiled, and the smile showed a set of
very white and very strong teeth ; it was
not a gracious or a genial expression.
Michael Langstroth, looking at him keenly
and attentively, said to himself 

Humph ! he is a magnificent animal,
at any rate. I wonder if he is anything
else. I should not like to pronounce at
a venture whether he were a gentleman
or a blackguard ; perhaps a bit of both."

At this juncture, Askam, the curious,
sinister smile still on his face, raised his
eyes, and encountered those of Michael
Langstroth fixed upon him. The smile
vanished, the frown descended, above a
defiant and inquiring stare. Evidence he
said within himself, " Who is that man ?
I ought to know him."

'' Halloa, Michael," cried the master of
the house, at this point, '* good morning to
you. I'm glad to see you. How is your
father to-day ? "

As he listened to this, young Askam's
frown disappeared, and his look cleared,
as if the thing that puzzled him had been
made plain. By the time that Michael
had done talking to Sir Thomas, Otho
was at his side.

I say  I ought to remember you.
You are Michael Langstroth, aren't you ? "
'' Yes, I am. I was just coming to
speak to you. This is my brother Gilbert ;
you ought to remember him, too, if you
remember me."

Otho shook hands with them. His
countenance was not the best suited for
expressing pleasure and geniality, but ina
certain saturnine manner he seemed glad
to see them both, though he did not say
he was, but showed it by asking them
many questions, with an air of interest 
questions as to what they had been doing
all these years." And he stood talking
with them, and occasionally with Byrom
Winthrop, who joined them, until the voice
of Sir Thomas summoned them to ' the
table, when, by some means, Otho and
Gilbert found themselves seated side by
side, and Michael was not very far away
from them.

Otho Askam betrayed none of the

awkwardness which would have been
natural to, and excusable in, a very young
man, who suddenly finds himself a person
of condition and importance amongst
others, much older and much better known
than himself. At the same time his
manner was utterly destitute of anything
like suavity or grace, or of aught that
could give a clue as to his real habits or
tastes in the matter of society ; none could
discover from it whether he most haunted
and best loved drawing-rooms, studies,
clubs, or stables.

He appeared to be at his ease, and yet
there was nothing easy about him. He
did not laugh at all. Michael, who
watched him attentively, could not detect
anything more mirthful than that peculiar
smile which had been on his face when he
first saw him ; and it was a smile which
might have been called sinister.

Gilbert and he seemed to keep up
an animated conversation, but Michael,

though near, could not hear, for the hum
of talk around him, what they said. He
could only feel silently surprised that they
had found any subject in common, for
Gilbert, when not engaged in calculations,
was something of a book-worm, and loved
the flavour of a play or an essay, and was
well-read in some of our older and less-known
dramatists. Michael, though still
uncertain whether Otho were most like a
gentleman or a blackguard, had an inner
conviction that he was neither literary in
his tastes nor yet devoted to accounts.

Suddenly, in a momentary lull in the
talk around him, he heard Otho say 

But Dusky Beauty was bred in these
parts. I'd take my oath of it."

*' Of course she was," replied Gilbert,
with animation. '' She was bred in old
Truman s stables, over in Friarsdale, out
of Blue Blood, by   "

Here the words were lost in the hum
of renewed talk, and Michael was no less

lost in astonishment. He felt quite feeble
and bewildered with surprise. In all the
years that he had known his brother, he
had never heard him utter a word which
could have led any one to suppose that
racing or horses, beyond his own solitary
hunter and riding-horse, had the faintest
or most elementary interest for him. And
yet, that was he giving information to
Otho Askam (not receiving it from him,
Michael reflected with astonishment) as to
the immediate pedigree of the winner atone
of the Spring meetings. More than
once since he had finished his studies and
been settled in Bradstane, it had been
made manifest to him that Gilbert's
character contained complexities which he
had not fathomed, and here was another
instance  to him the most remarkable of
all. With a sense of bewilderment, he
finished his breakfast, and when it was
over rode forth with the others.

At the end of the day, towards five

in the afternoon, it came to pass that
the three former playmates and new
acquaintances rode through Bradstane
town together.

'' I say," said Otho  it seemed to be his
favourite phrase for opening a sentence 
*' I wish you two fellows would look in
upon me now and then. I dine at eight,
and I am perfectly alone just now. It
would be a charity if you would come. I
can give you a glass of sherry that isn't
so bad, and show you one or two trifles
that might interest you, at any rate," and
he turned pointedly to Gilbert.

They thanked him for the invitation.
Gilbert promised, unconditionally, to go,
and that soon. Michael said he would
try ; he would go as soon as he had
time.

** You see," observed Gilbert, turning to
Otho, with a worthy, benevolent air, " his
time is not all his own. There's a lady in
the case."

VOL. I. 3

*' Oh, indeed ! You are engaged ? "
asked Otho.

Yes' said Michael.

'' To some one here ? "

"Yes. To Miss Wynter Magdalen
Wynter. She was at the meet this morning
with an elderly lady. I was standing
by their carriage for a good while."

That exceedingly handsome girl, who
drove those white ponies so cleverly ?
She had black hair, and a very knowing
sort of fur cap," Otho said, looking at
Michael with interest.

Michael smiled slightly. What a curious
way in which to describe his beautiful and
somewhat unapproachable Magdalen, was
the thought in his mind.

"The same," he answered, "though it
would never have occurred to me to
describe the cap as ' knowing.' "

Oh, wasn't it, though ! " said Otho,
emphatically. " Well, I congratulate you.
She is exceedingly handsome. There

wasn't another woman there who came
anywhere near her. It won't do to be
exacting in your case," he went on, with
his dubious smile ; " but, all the same, you
will be very welcome if you come."

*' Are you going to live alone ? " Michael
asked him. '' Doesn't your sister stay
with you ? "

My sister  Eleanor  she is at school.
I see her sometimes," said Otho, carelessly.
She told me, the last time I called upon
her, that she was going to college, and
meant to carry off honours, if I didn't."
He smiled again, and added, " We part
here, I think. Good day. I am glad to
have renewed our acquaintance."

They separated, going their several
ways, and the Langstroths rode on in
silence for a little time.

sewell," said Michael presently, *' it
cannot be said that he has turned out an
interesting character."

*' Opinions differ," was Gilbert's reply.

in a tone which, for him, might be called
curt. '' I think he is interesting."

Do you ? I should have said you were

the last By the way, Gilbert, you

might have knocked me over with your
little finger at breakfast this morning
when I heard you talking about Dusky
Beauty and her pedigree. I didn't know
you knew one race-horse from another."

'well, I am quite certain you don't,"
said Gilbert, with less than his usual
suavity ; " and it is my principle not to try
and entertain people by conversation about
things in which they don't take the slightest
interest. Otho Askam, there, does know
one race-horse from another."

'' What, is he horsey, then ? Is that his
little failing ? "

'* He is horsey  I don't know how much,
yet," said Gilbert, with his gentle gravity.
*' That's what I have got to find out, and
it is what I mean to find out. I shall give
him the pleasure of my company on an

early day. You can please yourself when
you go. Here we are."

After Otho Askam's arrival, which was,
as it were, made public by this appearance
amongst the gentlemen of his county, he
and his sayings and doings furnished endless
topics for the gossips of the neighbourhood.
It was, of course, only by
degrees that public opinion about him took
a definite shape, but the process of collecting
data on which to form one's opinion
of a person s character is to many persons
an even more delightful employment, and
more enjoyable, than the frequent utterance
of that opinion when found ; though this, of
course, must possess the higher quality
of benefiting and instructing those who
hear it.

The Bradstane neighbours  people in
districts like that are neighbours if they
do not live more than ten miles apart 
abandoned themselves at first with joy and
satisfaction, and a keenly pleasurable sense

of having found a new interest, to this first
branch of the business  the collecting of
data. Women asked their men  and declined
to be put off with mere vague,
general statements in reply  what they
thought of Otho Askam ; and men said
things to each other about him, and
laughed, or nodded, or shrugged, as the
case might be.

The first interest gradually but surely
turned into disappointment. People in
general discovered, or felt that they had
discovered, that Otho Askam was a decidedly
horsey, slangy young fellow. It
was soon made manifest that he had a
powerful distaste for general society, as
found in the country, with its dinners,
dances, and lunches. Then again it was
said  by whom no one could exactly tell
that he was full of whims and humours
and oddities without end  not pleasant
oddities ; was very lavish of his money on
one day, and very stingy with it on the

next ; had a most moody and uncertain
temper, which sometimes would run into
fierce, white-hot passions, with Httle or no
cause for them, or, again, into sullen silence,
more difficult than the fury to understand
or combat.

There was one group of facts eagerly
seized upon by the scandalmongers, and
even by those who were not scandalous
of the vicinity. The matrons and
the maids around were alike grieved that
a young man so richly endowed with every
external advantage should prove so very
ungentle, unpromising a character ; that he
should set at nought their customs, despise
their burnt-offerings, and openly neglect
their galas and festivities. That alone
would have pained the matrons and the
maids ; but that was not all. There was a
thorn more galling still, which he contrived
to plant in their sides, so as to wound
them shrewdly. After he had been at
home a few months, it became universally

known that there was one house in the
neighbourhood at which he visited often,
indeed, constantly, and that one the last
which would have been expected to attract
him  at Balder Hall, namely, where old
Miss Strangforth lived with her niece, who
had for more than two years been engaged
to Michael Langstroth. Magdalen Wynter
had never been a favourite among the
women of the country-side ; she was exceedingly
beautiful, and did nothing to
conciliate them ; she was penniless, and
treated them as if they were beneath
her. That winter she became less popular
than ever, and the secret thought in many
a virgin bosom was, '* Greedy wretch !
Could she not have been satisfied with
one :

This attachment to Balder Hall, and
the innumerable times that his horse and
he were reported to have been seen
travelling over the road thither, was the
canker which vexed the hearts of the

womankind. A good many of the young
men began presently to say that Otho was
so cross in his temper that the only way
to get on with him was to let him alone as
much as possible ; and, by-and-by, prudent
fathers, however much they might have
approved of him as a husband for one
of their spotless daughters, began to think
it was as well that their sons should not
have too much to do with him. Nothing
tangible had been alleged against him
during those months ; nothing actively
bad ; but, on the other hand, there was
nothing good. In any of the staider pursuits
of a country gentleman of his standing,
politics, county business, public affairs
of any kind, he took not the faintest or
most elementary interest ; nay, he had
been known, when occasion offered, to express
a rough kind of contempt for them,
and for those who troubled themselves
with them. Altogether, Otho Askam,
who had been a brood deal looked forward

to as the coming man, created much disappointment
now that he had come.

The last fact which formed food for
gossip and wonderment was, that that
gentlemanly, well-bred youth, Gilbert
Langstroth, against whom scandal had
never raised so much as a whisper, who
was known to be good  look at the way
in which he devoted himself to his failing
father  and was said, by those who knew
him, to be as clever as he was good  this
paragon amongst sons and young men
became the chosen friend and associate
of Otho Askam, almost from the day
of his arrival in Bradstane. Gossip exhausted
itself in trying to find reasons for
this alliance ; in discovering points of resemblance
between two such diverse characters,
points which might account for the
intimacy which had sprung up between
them. Gossip spent her breath in vain.
Undisturbed, and unheeding what was
said about them, the young men remained

and continued to be friends, and friends
who were almost inseparable. The
neighbourhood presently discovered that
to stand perpetually with a gape on one's
mouth is undignified, so it presently ceased
to gape, shrugged its shoulders, and said,
Well, if I were Pvlr. Langstroth, I should
not like my son to form such an intimacy."

The neighbourhood could not possibly
have been more surprised than was
Gilbert's brother, Michael, though he kept
his surprise to himself, and naturally did
not hear very much of that felt by
other persons. He had often chaffed
Gilbert about his having no friends ; acquaintances
in plenty, but no chum, as the
absent Roer Camm was Michael's own
chum. Gilbert had always replied 

*' Wait a bit. Every one does not suit
me for a friend. When I do find one, I'll
stick to him."

And then Otho Askam came. Gilbert
appeared to have found the combination

of qualities he wished for in a friend, and
his words were fulfilled. He 'stuck to him."

The intimacy went on for more thana
year, during which time the tranquil,
gentle countenance of Gilbert Langstroth,
with its slight, tolerant smile, was to be
seen oftener than not side by side with
the strange, fierce face of Otho Askam,
with its breathless expression. " He
looks," said a girl to Michael once, ' " as
if he were always hunting something, and
meant to kill it when he caught it."

It was undoubtedly a bizarre alliance,
but at the end of a year people had, ina
measure, got to accept it, and it was an
understood thing that its effect upon
Gilbert was one which he was quite able
to sustain with impunity ; in other words,
that, whatever might be the case with
Otho Askam, Gilbert Langstroth continued
to be a respectable member of
society, and was not even thinking of
going to the bad.

CHAPTER II.

MAGDALEN AND THE NEIGHBOURHOOD.

Otho's arrival had been in the early part
of October. The intimacy between him
and Gilbert gradually increased, and the
visits of the friends were not by any means
confined to one party of the alliance.
Otho was found as often seated in an old
armchair in some one of the now faded
and shabby rooms of the Red Gables, as
Gilbert was in the statelier and better preserved
apartments of Thorsgarth. Gilbert
and his father lived alone together. They
had so lived ever since Michael, having
finished his medical studies, had come back
and been made Doctor Rowntree's assistant.
Mr. Langstroth was one of those

men who undoubtedly exist, who, by some
means not to be accounted for by any
personal charm or fascination, always have
either a devoted wife or a friend who
seems willing, nay, eager to give of his
strength in order to make up for their
weaknesses. So long as his wife had been
living, Mr. Langstroth had had a prop.
After her death, her place, as prop, had been
taken by Dr. Rowntree, an old '* friend
of the family," whose yellow-washed house,
with its green door and brass knocker,
stood almost opposite the Red Gables, on
the other side of the broad old square
which formed the west end of Bradstane
town. Doctor Rowntree had indeed been
one of those friends who stick closer than a
brother, who get little and give much, and
who seem quite satisfied so long as they
may go on giving, and get an occasional
word significative of trust or appreciation.
Sometimes it seems as if they could exist
without even so much aliment for their

regard. It was at his instigation and by
his advice that Michael had adopted the
medical profession as his calling in life.
Something had to be done ; their fortunes
no longer permitted idleness on the part
even of the eldest son of the house.
Michael was utterly disinclined for the
church, and his father for the expense of
preparing him to enter it. For *' doctoring,"
as they roughly and ignorantly
called the healing art, he had always shown
a liking ; and, as most of his spare time had
always been spent at the little Quaker
doctor s house, it was considered that he
had had ample opportunities of judging
whether this calling would suit him or not.
He had elected to follow it, greatly to the
jubilation of his old friend, and, having
finished his student life, it had been decided
that it would be to the comfort and
vantage of all if he were to take up his
quarters with Dr. Rovvntree, instead of
remaining at home.

'' You won't really be separated from
them, you know," said the doctor ; " and,
being on the premises, you'll get so much
better broken in to it."

Mr. Langstroth agreed. In his heart
he despised the doctors calling, and was
angry and ashamed that a son of his
should have to live by it ; but, like many
another before him, he took the benefits
that he hated, and was satisfied so long
as they were not put before him too prominently.
He would have been best satisfied
if Michael could have followed his
trade," as the elder man contemptuously
called it, away from Bradstane and his
nobility ; but the advantages of the present
arrangement were too great and too
obvious to be thrown away ; there were no
premiums to pay, nd struggle to make.
So Michael lived with Dr. Rowntree, and
began to make himself acquainted with
the far from easy life of a country doctor.
His temper was sweet, and his spirit

beyond all Idea of shame in his position,
or complaint at having to work. He said
little, but went to work with a will.

Gilbert had all along, and as it were
by a sort of tacit consent of all parties,
remained at home with his father, who was
now a querulous invalid with a heart-complaint.
Incidentally, too, as has been said,
he devoted a good deal of his time and
mind to the contemplation and manipulation
of their affairs, family and financial.
While Michael had been studying in
London, letters had now and then come to
him from Gilbert, suggesting that it was
advisable to sell this or that farm, this
or that lot of timber in the woods which
still belonged to them. To do so would
lessen their debts by so much, would ease
their father's mind, and increase their
income by diminishing the amount they
annually had to pay away in Interest. To
all and each of which propositions, Michael
had been in the habit of yielding unquaii-

VOL. I. . 4

find assent, saying that he thought it very
good of Gilbert to sit boring his eyes out
over accounts, in the days of his youth.
He might as well have congratulated an
old spider on weaving webs so skilfully, or
complimented a shark on his kindness in
following that which he best loved  prey,
namely, or, in short, have thanked any
person warmly for being so disinterested
as to find pleasure in following his natural
bent. Michael was very young, and hated
all such tasks as those in which Gilbert
passed his time. He might have had
Gilbert's office, and Gilbert his, had he so
chosen ; the option had been given him ;
but he did not so chose, and it always
seemed to him that his best thanks were
due to his brother for industriously doing
that which he would have so hated to do
himself. Interested in his studies, and
seeing a good deal of society, in which he
was popular, by reason of his good looks,
good birth, and entire absence of selfishness

or self-consciousness, Michael often
thought what a good old man Gilbert was,
and what thanks he, Michael, would owe
him, for this sacrificing the days of his
youth to an invalid father and a complicated
account-book, in a quiet little
country town at the world's end.

It certainly was a very quiet little town,
as It Is now, and probably always has been.

"Castle Bradstane," says an old chronicler,
'standeth stately upon These." At
the time of which he wrote, he probably
literally meant the castle, the grim brown
pile which stood on the Durham side of
the stream, cunningly planted just at an
outward sweep of one of its many curves.
Gradually It had fallen Into decay ; other
houses and a small town had gathered
about Its feet. Ivy and other creepers
and climbers now clung; about its fierce
old towers. Wallflowers, ragwort, and
the Ivy-leaved snapdragon peeped and
nodded In at the narrow little slits of

Rare
DIVERSITY OF 

windows; kindly Nature did all in her power
to beautify what had been so cruel and so
hideous, till now the grim old fastness sat
harmless aloft, and the river rushed and
murmured far below, as of yore.

Any one who choses, may learn how
Walter Scott, with the seer's eye of genius,
pictured Bradstane Castle, and the prospects
which from its '' watch-tower high
gleamed gradual on the warder's eye ; "
and to this day, the prospect upon which
it looks is little changed. Though the
stream sweeps by beneath it, laden with
the tale of several centuries more, their
woe and bloodshed, eries and tragic
story, yet the outlines of the land itself,
the woods, the hills, must be similar to
what they were when old Leland, looking
upon it, recorded, " Castle Bradstane
standeth stately upon These." The inhabitants,
who gradually built houses, and
clustered about the old pile and beyond
it, to the east, had been, taken all in alla

wild race of people, a border race. To
this day they are bold, sturdy, and independent.
Strange tales are sometimes told of
the old families of the vicinity, gentle and
simple  tales in which both gentleness and
simplicity are conspicuous by their absence.
Great cities have their great sins, their
great faults, wrongs, and iniquities ; and weare
very much in the habit of speaking in
condemnatory terms of them, and of lauding
the beauties of the country, and the
simpleness and gentleness, and, above
all, the naturalness and absence of pretension
in the life there. And, certainly, city
life, carried to excess, has in it a morbid
feverishness and unrest which is no true
life. But in country life, when it is lived
in out-of-the-way spots  moorland farms,
secluded dales, places far from railways
and traffic  there is often a certain
morbidness, as well as in the life of a town.
The very solitude and loneliness tend to
foster and bring out any peculiarities, any

morbid characteristics, and to confirm and
strengthen eccentricities and idiosyncracies.
One of the good things that much-abused
progress will do in time, will be to sweep
away some of these ugly old country
habits of indolence and childishness, and
selfish, soulless sensuality, which still exist,
and that sometimes amidst the sweetest
and most exquisite natural surroundings.

At this later time of which I write,
Bradstane was more the abode of confirmed
Philistinism than of anything else.
There were a few wealthy and well-born
families, who possessed seats in the neighbourhood
 Halls, Parks, Courts, Houses 
and who shut themselves up in them, and
led their own lives, on no evil terms with
the shopkeepers and dissenters of the
village itself, but quite apart and distinct
from them. The only one of these houses
which stood within the precincts of the
town was the Red Gables, Mr. Lang-troth's
dwelling-place. It was a large old

house, rlsinor- stralofht out of the street.
The land that belonged to it consisted
chiefly of farms in the vicinity, and some
woods, more distant still.

Further out, at a fine old place higher
up the river, situated like Thorsgarth, on
one of its many " reaches," and called
Balder Hall, lived an old maiden lady.
Miss Martha Strangforth, at whose death,
which, said wise report, could not be very
far off, seeing that she was older than the
century, and a martyr to rheumatic gout,
her estate and fortune would pass to a
nephew of the same name. Four years
ago had come to live with her an orphan
grand-niece, one Magdalen Wynter byname
; a cold, handsome, self-contained
girl of eighteen, who made no friends,
and was seldom seen walking outside her
aunt's grounds, but who sometimes passed
through Bradstane town, driving in one of
the Balder Hall carriages, dressed with a
perfection of simple elegance which the

Philistine Inhabitants called '' plainness,"
and looking as If, for aught they could say
to the contrary, all the world belonged to
her. Sometimes she stopped at one of
the shops, and then she was treated with
respect, as the niece of rich old Miss
Strangforth. On these occasions, she was
wont to give very clear, concise orders. Ina
very clear, decided voice, low and gentle,
but too monotonous to be called musical.
Her beautiful young face was seldom, if
ever, seen to smile ; and yet, one could
hardly have said that she looked unhappy,
though she might have been accused of
appearing Indifferent.

Once, some few weeks after her arrival,
stopping at the stationer's and bookseller's
shop kept by Mr. Dixon, In the main
street of the town, the footman opened
the door, and she got out and went into
the shop. Mrs. Dixon came forward to
attend to her wants, and was followed by
a pretty little girl of some ten years old,

a child with a delicate skin, small, oval face,
straight little nose, brown hair and eyes 
all very neat and clear, and clean and pretty.
She hid rather shyly behind her mother.

*' Is that your child ? " asked Miss
Wynter, pointing with her parasol at the
girl.

Yes, miss, this is Ada, our only one."
*' Oh, indeed ! How old is she ? "
*' Ten, was a month last Sunday."
'* Ah, she is a pretty little creature.
Does she go to school ? "

'* Yes, miss ; but it's her holiday-time
now."

I wish you'd let her come home with
me, and I'll show her some pretty things.
I am very lonely."

The last words were spoken in the
quiet, uninterested tone in which one says,
What a dull day it is ! " as if they hardly
referred to herself, but to something outside
her.

Oh yes, miss, she may go. I'm sure

it's very good of you. But I fear she'll bea
trouble to you."

Not at all, or I should not have asked
her. Would you like to come with me,
little Ada?" asked Miss Wynter, turning
to the child neither coldly nor unkindly,
but with no change of expression at all 
no lighting up of her soft, dark, quiet eyes ;
not the ghost of a smile upon her tranquil
sculptured lips.

At first, Ada hung back ; and her
mother began to expostulate with her,
saying how good it was of the lady to
invite her to go with her.

The lady, in the same soft and gentle
tone, remarked presently 

Oh, she won't understand that, of
course. If you will come with me, Ada, I
will give you a pretty necklace, and a
ribbon."

At this prospect, all hesitation fled.
Ada submitted at once to be made ready,
Mrs. Dixon remarking admiringly 

'* Eh, but you have found the right road
to her heart, miss, and that cleverly."

I will sit here, and wait till she is
ready. Don't put on her best frock, or
anything of that kind, you know. She
will do just as she is."

Miss Wynter furthermore promised to
restore Ada to her home and friends later
in the evening, but Mrs. Dixon said she
had to send her servant to the Balder Hall
farm for butter, and she should call for
the little oriel and brincr her back. Ada

o o

was perched in the carriage beside Miss
Wynter, in which position she was seen of
sundry comrades as she drove away.

They called to her ; asked her where
she was going, and cried 

*' Eh, but, Ada, what a grand lady you
are, to be sure ! "

Ada took no manner of notice of them,
but looked straight before her.

Why do you not kiss your hand to
your friends, and say good-bye to them ? "

asked Magdalen, turning indifferently, as
she lay back, also indifferently, and looked
with languid curiosity at the little flushed
face and small figure, bristling with Importance,
beside her.

"cause I'm a young lady, and they are
little common village girls," was the reply,
so unexpected, that even Miss Wynter's
eyes were opened wide, and her eyebrows
were raised, as she heard it.

'' Indeed ? " she said. '' And do you
think you are really a young lady ? "

Not like you, yet," was the reply,
'' because I'm not old enough ; but I shall
be sometime. Mamma says I'm so pretty
I shall be sure to marry a gentleman ; and
I'm g-omo; to learn French and music."

''Oh, Indeed!" drawled Magdalen.
You are going to marry a gentleman.
What Is a gentleman ? Did your mother
tell you that, too ? "

"She didn't tell me, but I know,"
replied Ada.

"Well, suppose you tell me. Then
I shall know, too."

A gentleman Is rich, and has a large
house, and "

'' Does a gentleman keep a shop ? "

- No."

Then what Is your father ? "

Oh, I don't know."

Magdalen proceeded. In a languid, indifferent
way, to draw her out. In a very
short time she had gauged the depths,
or rather the shallows, of Ada Dixon's
mind. It contained nothing but shallows
then ; it was destined never to contain anything
else, henceforth and for evermore.

From that day she was more or less
Miss Wynter's piotegde and plaything.
Sometimes the connection flagged ; sometimes
when the winter weather was bitter,
or the summer heats overpowering, when
Miss Wynter was indolent, and when Ada
was promoted to a boarding-school, there
were gaps in the intercourse ; but the

acquaintance was never broken off, and it
was not without its influence in both lives,
and on more destinies than theirs alone.

The Dixon were well-to-do, prosperous,
conventional tradespeople, more retail than
wholesale in every sense of the words.
He had grown fat by charging sixpence
where other people charged five pence, by
a consistent practice of telling many lies
during the week, and diligently repenting
him of his transgressions and bewailing
his sins tvvice every Sunday in the parish
church. That is, he bewailed his sins with
his mouth, and whenever bewailing happened
to be printed in the Prayer-book ;
but he knew much better than the Prayer-book
what was the way in which to get
on in the world, and perhaps, if he had
spoken out his whole mind, cleanly and
honestly, would have said that since the
Lord, by putting so much competition
into the world, had made it such a hard
business for folk to hold their heads above

J

water, He must even excuse them from,
doing it in the best way they could.

Mrs. Dixon, Hke a faithful and loyal
wife, had aided and abetted him in his
praiseworthy efforts to get on in the world.
They had succeeded in their aim, and were
respected and looked up to by all who
knew them. He was vicar's warden, an
overseer of the poor, one of the best-known
men in public and parochial affairs
in all the district. He could afford to
send his daughter to school ; to keep her
out of the shop ; to dress her " stylish,"
as they called it ; to give her a piano, and
buy pieces of music for her to play upon
it ; and all these things he did with a good
grace, and looked to Ada to form an
alliance which should be to the credit of
the family and her own glory.

There were other well-to-do tradesmen
in Bradstane, and many who were but
ill-to-do. There was the lawyer, Mr.
Coningsby, who lived not far away from

the Lanostroths ; there was Doctor Rown-
tree ; there was the vicar, Mr. Johnson,
with Mrs. Johnson, his wife, and their
numerous progeny. They Heed in an
old brown house, in a kind of close, near
the church, with a walled garden containing
apricot and plum trees. Other
religious bodies were represented by two
dissenting ministers and their flocks, and
by a Friends' Meeting, the head and front
of which was Doctor Rowntree.

These denominations, of course, had
churches and chapels in which they worshipped.
There were some curious old
houses in the main street, and there was
a long and unlovely thoroughfare called
Bridge Street, more like a slum than anything
else, where the women were pale,
and the children stunted, and the inhabitants
of which, taken all in all, did not
enjoy the best of reputations. One side of
this street was built to the river-bank overhanging
the stream ; and in the spring and

autumn, or when thunderstorms prevailed,
the lower rooms of those houses would be
flooded. Going along Bridge Street, one
did not guess how near the river one
was, till one came upon an opening here
and there  a gully, or a tunnel, or a-
narrow, dark passage and looking down
it, one could see the rushing brown
waters flowing ceaselessly on, without
haste and without rest, from the fastnesses
whence they had sprung 

Where Tees in tumult leaves his source,
Thundering o'er Cauldron and High Force."

Such was, superficially, the outward aspect
of Bradstane town, when Otho Askam
and the two Langstroths met after their
many years' separation ; such it had been
for years back. It was not what is called
a orrowinof town," and whatever drama
might be played within its precincts, its
exterior, objective side, was not likely to
change very much.

VOL. I. 5

CHAPTER III,

LANGSTROTHS FOLLY.

One November evening, or rather, late In
the afternoon, Otho had dropped in at the
Red Gables, where he had found Gilbert
and his father. Mr. Langstroth received
the young man with urbanity ; he had all
along seemed satisfied with Gilbert s new
friend. Gilbert himself looked up from
his desk, and greeted the visitor tranquilly.

'' Sit down, and make yourself at home,"
said he, pushing a tobacco-jar towards
Askam.

But Otho did not at once sit down.
'will you come home and dine with me ? "
he asked, in his curt way.

Tm sorry I can't," Gilbert said, polite
as usual. " You see these papers ? I
have more than an hour's work upon them
yet."

Otho never scoffed at Gilbert's '' business,"
though he was ready to sneer at
that of any one else. All he uttered now
was a disappointed *' Humph !"

'' Stay and have dinner with us," said
Gilbert. " How did you come ?''

I rode."

'* From home ? On your way anywhere
? "

No. I'm on my way from Balder
Hall," replied Otho, with something like
a scowl.

Gilbert looked at him, carelessly, it
seemed. Then he said 

"Well, send your horse round, and
stay, as I said  I want Askam to have
dinner with us," he added, turning to his
father.

'' I wish he would. We shall be delighted,

if he will take us as we are,"
responded Mr. Langstroth.

Otho still seemed to hesitate a little,
till Gilbert, with a rather steady look at
him, which was not seen by his father,
continued 

Look here. I'll propose something
else. IVe been tied down to this work
all day, and I haven't had a turn out
of doors. Dine with us, as I said, and
afterwards I'll walk back with you to your
house. I have an errand in the town.

It'll do you no harm to travel on your own
legs for once in a way, and you can send

one of your fellows for your horse. How

will that do ? "

Otho's brow cleared. '' That will do

very well," said he, taking a chair. *' It

suits me down to the ground. Get on

with that work, and I'll talk to your

father."

Gilbert, having rung and given his

orders as to the accommodation of Otho's

horse, turned his back upon them, and did
not address another word to them until
the man announced dinner, when he put
his papers in a drawer which he locked,
and gave his arm to his father to support
him to the dining-room. Otho followed
them. Despite the poverty of the house
of Langstroth, the meals there were
always rather choice, well-cooked, and well-served.
Mr. Langstroth, it was understood,
depended a good deal for his health
of mind as well as of body upon the due
observance of such theirs. Soon after
they had begun, Gilbert observed carelessly
that they hadn't seen Michael all
day ; he had expected him to dinner.

"He's dining at Balder Hall," said Otho,
even more curtly than usual.

Ah ! Had he arrived when you left ? "

No."

"And how was my future sister-in-law ? "

She said she was all right," was the
gruff reply, as Otho fixed his eyes for a

moment upon Gilbert, a little defiantly,
one might almost have said. Nothing
more was said about any of these topics 
Balder Hall, or Michael, or Magdalen.
When dinner was over, and they had gone
back to the library, Gilbert settled his
father with the greatest care, arranging with
his own hands his easy-chair, small table,
reading-lamp, and all his other requisites.

You won't mind my leaving you for an
hour or two ? " he asked.

Not at all, Gilbert. You want some
air and exercise. Go and get it."

** Would you like me to ask the doctor
to call in ? "

''No, no," was the somewhat testy reply.
I see him often enough, without you
asking him to come."

Michael is sure to look in on his way
home, but I shall most likely be back by
then.  Now, Otho, if you're ready."

As they stepped out of the house, they
became aware that a change had fallen

over the weather, which had been cold.
The sky was full of rack, driven rapidly
across it by a strong yet soft south-west
wind. The moon gleamed fitfully through
the clouds, and a gush of rain was blown
against their faces.

'' Halloa ! Raining ! " exclaimed Gilbert.
*' Do you mind a drop of rain ? " he added,
*' or will you ride home ? "

Oh, I'm not afraid of a little weather,"
replied Otho. 'where do you want to
go?"

Where you have never been yet," said
his companion. *' Down to the Owned,
as they call it. Come along. It isn't much
out of our way to Thorsgarth."

Otho followed in a docile manner. Now
that he had got what he seemed to have
been aiming at, his tete-astute with Gilbert,
all traces of sullenness and impatience
had vanished. Bulldogs, surly to all the
world beside, are tame and obedient to
their masters ; and there was a o;-ood deal

of the bulldog In the way in which Otho
followed Gilbert about.

When they had got through the busiest
and most inhabited part of the town, they
found themselves almost alone In a steep
street, descending rapidly towards the
river. As they got further down it, the
houses gradually became more bare and
rough-looking ; and, some of them, more
and more ancient In appearance. Looking
down the hill, It appeared as if the street
ended In a ad de sac, as If there were
no egress that way from Bradstane town.
And the wall which appeared to shut the
place In, and block up the road at that
side, consisted of the frontage of two high
factories. There was In reality a narrow
passage between them, through which
access was obtained to the river, and by
means of which one arrived at an iron
footbridge, ugly, but useful. This could
not be perceived at the distance they
now were from the mills.

'' What on earth do you want down
here ? " growled Otho, between two puffs
at his pipe.

'ewe possess a bit of property down
there," Gilbert answered him. " It is
perfectly meaningless and perfectly useless
to us. It cumbers the ground, and has
swallowed up a pot of money which we
ought to be enjoying the benefit of now.
I sometimes walk down to it, to look at it,
and think what a folly it was. ' Lang-troth's
Folly,' it ought to be called.
Townend Mills is the name it actually
bears. There it is ! " as the moon shone
out brightly for a few minutes, and showed
the dark mass of the factories rising almost
directly in front of them.

'' You're a queer one ! " said Otho, not
without a kind of admiration in his tones.
'' Where's the sense of fretting yourself by
coming and looking at it ? It's like trying
to heal a raw by scraping."

Your simile would be just, if I did

irritate myself," replied Gilbert gently.
"My dear Otho"  he spoke impressively,
and laid his hand for a moment on the
other's arm  '' I never let anything irritate
me. I make it a rule "

'' Never  I never say never," said Otho.
"No saying what will turn up. Leave it
to chance. That's the best way. Besides,
Mag  some one was saying to me, only the
other day, that it's only very young people
who nevers do what they oughtn't."

It was on the tip of Gilbert's tongue
to say, " I know I am young, but, then,
I have taken care to be very wise, too,"
because we are apt to blurt out the
thoughts nearest our hearts. But he said
quietly 

Yes, I know I am young, but I have
had a good deal to do that generally falls
to older people. With Michael choosing
to leave us and take his own way, I have
had a good deal to think about, and a
iood deal of help to give to my poor

governor in his business affairs ; and I
soon found that, if you want to get on at
all in business, you ijiust keep your temper,
especially when you are a poor man, with
fallen fortunes, against the world "

*' Be hanged if I could ever keep my
temper about business, or anything else
that went wrong with me ! "

"" Ah, you can afford to lose your temper,"
said Gilbert, in a cold voice, which caused
Otho hastily to say that he had meant no
offence ; and Gilbert proceeded 

So, as I say, I don't let the Townend
Mills irritate me, though one might get
irritated enough about them if one would ;
but I come and smoke my pipe, and walk
round them now and again, and think
quietly. I feel as if I might, some time or
other, have a good idea on the subject, you
know  an idea that might be worked into
something. Don't you trouble yourself
about them. I won't detain you long.
Here we are ! "

They had entered the long, narrow
passage between the mills. It was now
late, getting near ten o'clock, for they had
not left the Red Gables till after nine.
The clouded sky made the night darker 
a darkness which was deepened, if anything,
by the occasional gleams of moonlight
when the rack parted. At the end
of the passage there was visible a kind
of gray shimmer, and in the intervals
between the gusts of wind they could hear
the rush of the river.

'wherever one goes, one comes upon
that river," exclaimed Otho, not as if he
were much delighted with the fact.

Yes. Tees keeps us pretty well aware
of his presence. It's as twisted and
crooked a stream as any in England, I
should imagine. There are the mills,
Askam. Now, I'll tell you my object in
life, if you like."

' What is it ? " asked Otho, with deep
and unfeigned interest.

*' I wish  at least, I intend to overcome
the obstacle raised In my way by the idiot
who built these mills. I like overcoming
obstacles. I intend, some day, either to
have them sold, and the price of them in
my pocket, or else to see them filled with
machinery, and working again at a profit."

But you don't understand how to
manage mills," said Otho diffidently.

No, but I understand how to manage
men. And I know a fellow who understands
how to manage mills  Roger
Camm. Do you remember Roger Camm ?
He used to be a playfellow of ours  the
curate's son."

A swarthy fellow, very big and strong,
who always looked rather hungry, and yet
always said he wasn't when we used to go
in to tea ? "

The same. I see you have an
accurate memory. I guess he was
hungry too, poor beggar. He was over
here, a year or two ago, stopping with

Michael ; they are great chums. And he
told me all about himself. He cut the
Church. He said his governor never got
anything out of it but water-porridge and
civil contempt from people who weren't as
good as himself. He was rather bitter
about it. anyhow, he cut it, as I say, and
took to the intelligent working-man line.
He is foreman in a Manchester factory
now, and he knows something about it all,
I can tell you. I made him promise that
when I sent for him he'd come and take
the management of this concern  ' run it '
for me, as they say in America."
'' Ah, and when will that be ? "
'' When I find my purchaser or tenant,"
said Gilbert, as suavely as ever. " He
told me all the reasons why these would
never succeed as cotton factories  they are
the only mills in the place ; the station is a
mile and a half away, and there is a steep
hill, nearly half a mile long, from here to
the top of the town. Oh, I've mastered the

subject. Jute  that Is what I shall do with
them  spin jute, and get women and girls
out of Bridge Street for hands."

'* Yes ? " said Otho tentatively, really interested,
and ardently wishing that he
understood a little more about it. " And
your father and  brother ? " Michael's
name seemed rather to stick in his throat.

My father says he only wishes I could.
Michael is dead against it. Michael would
like to pull the whole place down."

'' What for ? " asked Otho sharply.

Because he's a fool," was Gilbert's
reply. The intimacy between him and
Otho had, it would seem, progressed
quickly.

*' Because he's a fool," repeated young
Askam, leaning his elbows on the balustrade
of the bridge, to which they had
now advanced, and staring down into the
rushing brown river. The expression on
the face, which the darkness concealed,
was not a pleasant one. " Curse him ! "

he muttered to himself,, so low that even
Gilbert did not hear him ; but the river
carried the sound, along with all the other
messages with which it was laden, towards
the sea.

'' Come honor ! " said Gilbert, after a
brief, silent pause. " There's no use
staying here any longer."

Otho raised himself from the bridge,
and they retraced their way through the
silent passage, up the steep street, and to
where a road to the right led in the
direction of Thorsgarth. They had not
spoken a word since leaving the mills.

I think it's rather late for me to be
going with you," said Gilbert, hesitating
at the corner.

'' Not a bit ! What's ten o'clock ?
You've got a key, I suppose ? You said
you would come," said Otho rapidly, and
almost savagely. "And I want to speak
to you."

'' Oh, I am willing, and  well, Michael

will see my father again before he goes
to bed  sure to. He will be leaving
Balder Hall by now, I dare say. They
keep early hours there."

'* Where there's an old woman like that
precious Aunt Martha, they must," said
Otho. " Look here, Gilbert, how did
your brother Michael get Magdalen
Wynter to accept him ? "

By being the only man in the world
who proposed to her, or was likely to do
so," said Gilbert cynically.

I don't see that. She is the handsomest
woman I ever saw."

She hasn't a penny, and won't have.
She isn't popular  but the reverse, and
no man, except Michael, ever penetrates
within those walls  oh, and you," he
added, with a laugh, as he turned to Otho.

** You haven't accounted for it yet," said
the latter sullenly.

"Well, say she was in love with him."

"In love with my eye ! "

VOL. I. 6

Gilbert laughed again. '' I give it up,"
said he. " It's a conundrum I have often
set myself, to no purpose. Michael is ten
thousand times too good for her ; but
that's nothing to the point. I don't know
why she took him."

She ordered me off this afternoon,
because he was coming to dinner," Otho
said, in a voice of choking anger. *' She
told me my whole body wasn't worth his

little finger. She "

You might be in love with her yourself,"
suggested Gilbert ; and, indeed, a less
astute observer mioht have been struck
with the same idea.

'' I'll be hanged if I am  insolent minx ! "
retorted Otho savagely. *' No girl shall
behave to me as she has done, with impunity.
She shall pay for it. But, tell
me, how long were they in making it up ? "
''Oh, not long; about six weeks. He
was home for his holidays one summer,
and we were talking together in front of

the house. Miss Strangforth's carriage,
with her and Magdalen in it, drove by.
The old lady saw us bowing, and stopped.
I introduced Michael ; he fell in love on
the spot, then and there, over head and
ears. Martha asked him to drive with
them, and he drove. Drove deeper and
deeper into love, I suppose ; and  yes, it
was just six weeks later, they were together
at a picnic to Cauldron, and they
returned engaged. My father has never
got over it."

*' How ? " asked Otho, in the same
strangled voice.

He thought it so idiotic and imprudent.
And so it was, and is. But Michael
had become a man over the doing of it.
They stuck to it, and they have stuck
to it ever since. Some day, I suppose
they will be married; but I don't know
when."

Otho made absolutely no reply to this
prophecy. They turned in at the Thorns

gates, and the subject was dropped.
But Gilbert knew now why Otho had
given them his company at dinner, and
wh) he himself had been so earnestly
pressed to go back to Thorsgarth after
their walk.

CHAPTER IV.

THE FACULTY OF CLOSE OBSERVATION.

One night, during the winter which followed
the conversation between Otho and
Gilbert, a large ball was given at a well-known
house in the neighbourhood of
Bradstane, and present at it were both the
Langstroth brothers, Magdalen Wynter,
and even Otho Askam, little as he loved
such entertainments. Perhaps Gilbert had
persuaded him to go.

Magdalen was chaperoned by a good-natured
matron, who had married off all
her own girls with credit and renown,
and could therefore afford to witness with
complacent amusement the gasping and

Straggling of those who were still, as
(tho might elegantly have put it, " in the
running." She had not that dislike to
Magdalen which animated more interested
persons ; she admired her beauty, and considered
her *' good form." Magdalen herself
had never looked better than she did
that night, or more haughtily and superbly
independent of all outside support. She
was richly attired, for Miss Strangforth
liked her niece to dress splendidly. She
danced very seldom ; it had never been
her habit to do so often ; and as not even
her rivals, while in possession of their
senses, would have dreamed of saying that
this was because she could not get partners,
and as her sitting out usually involved
also the sitting out of some man who
would otherwise have been free to dance
with another girl, and as the said men
always looked perfectly happy and satisfied
in their inactivity at such times,  her habit
did not in any way make her more popular.

To-nlofht it was observed that she
danced twice with her betrothed, twice
with Otho Askam, and once with Gilbert.
Perhaps that might have been endured
without much adverse criticism, but it was
noticed also, and bitterly noticed, that
Otho danced with no one else, though
both Michael and Gilbert did.

On the following afternoon, Gilbert, returning
from a solitary, meditative ride, far
into the country  such a ride as he loved
to take, and did take, almost every day 
found himself outside the palings at one
side of the Balder Hall Park. Looking
over them, he saw within the figure of
Magdalen Wynter. She was pacing quickly
up and down a sort of woodland path,
which in summer must have been almost
concealed, but which was now plainly
visible between the trunks of the naked
trees  visible, at any rate, to Gilbert as he
sat on horseback. There was a broad belt
of rough grass, in which grew ferns, and

from which also rose the leafless trees just
spoken of. Then came the path on which
Miss Wynter was walking, and beyond
that a glade, sloping steeply down to
where Tees flowed by in one of his many
curves.

Gilbert saw a dark, close cap of velvet,
and a pale face which drooped somewhat
beneath it, a long, fur-bordered mantle
tightly clipped around the wearer's form,
the bottom of a crimson kilting peeped
beneath it, and a pair of small, well-shod
feet. Her back was turned to him, and he
stopped and looked over the palings till
she turned, lifted her head, and saw him.
She gave a little start.

Oh, Gilbert, how quietly you must
have come ! "

Not so very. The ground is hard
and frosty, and my horse's hoofs rang. It
is your deep thoughts, Magdalen, which
render you deaf to outside things."

She had walked across the orass, which

was dry and hard, and crunched frostily
under her feet, up to the pang, and held
up her hand to him. Gilbert rarely met
his future sister-in-law, and it has been
seen that in speaking of her to his friend,
Otho Askam, he did not employ terms
exactly of enthusiasm ; but if ever they did
encounter each other, whether by chance
or design, he was always scrupulously
amiable and polite to her. Whether this
meeting had come about by chance 
whether he had intended that it should
come about  this is a thing known only to
himself. As he looked down now, into
the marble paleness and wonderful beauty
of the girl's face, he gave no sign, and she
said to him 

*' Are you riding alone ? "

'' Yes, just as you see me. I have
been a long way  nearly to Middleton-intestate."


'' I have been walking for an hour, up
and down this path. I am beginning to

find it rather monotonous, and am going
in for some tea. Will you come and have
some, too ? "

'* With pleasure, if you can put up with
such a feeble substitute for my brother. I
think the North Lodge is just round here,
isn't it ?"

Yes. I will meet you there. Then
we can walk to the house together."

They did so, Gilbert dismounting at the
loose, and leading his horse. The short
winter day was closing in, gray and cold,
as they went up the avenue.

How did you enjoy the dance ? " he
asked.

Not much. I never do. Did you ? "

*' I always enjoy watching other people's
little games."

She Qfave a short lauch. '' Do you
mean mine ? "

Yours  nay. How can you have
any :

"Just what I was going to say. I mean.

if you were looking for what you call
games ' with me, your trouble must have
been wasted, that's all."

'' Of course. No ; I meant all the other
girls, and their mothers, and the men, too,
for that matter."

She laughed again, shortly and contemptuously.


'' And Otho Askam," he pursued tranquilly.


Magdalen looked up. " What ? Has he
got plans, or ' games,' as you call them ? "

*' I was amused to see his devotion to
you last night, and what a rage those
women were in about it. His game is to
avoid all the girls whom he might possibly
be supposed to be desirous of marrying.
He told me so. He is mortally afraid of
being trapped. And of course, he is even
more afraid of the mothers than of the
girls. You are quite harmless, you see.
You are promised to Michael. He feels
so safe and happy with you."

Poor, innocent lamb ! "

Isn't he ? It shows how bHndly he
trusts in your probity, and in your devotion
to Michael. He comes to Balder Hall
sometimes, doesn't he ? "

'' Yes."

'' He never asks me to go with him."

''No?"

'' It is so amusing, I think. What does
Michael say to it ? "

Michael  oh, he laughs, and says it is
very good of me to let him come, and that
it is a good sign for Mr. Askam's future
career that he frequents any decent society
at all," she said, with a short, dry laugh,
of which Gilbert's answering one seemed
an echo, so much were they alike in tone.

How beautiful of him ! When you are
married to him, Magdalen," he added,
speaking very slowly, and openly watching
her face  '' when you are married to
Michael, and fairly established as Mrs.
Langstroth, for which consummation you

have waited so faithfully and so patiently,"
he dwelt upon all his words  '' I should
say that then Michael would find it
rather a bore to have Otho Askam coming
in, and you would, too. Don't you
think so ? "

How can I tell ? I should say that
Otho Askam would find it a bore himself,
when I am married to Michael, if ever I
should be. As you say, I have waited a
long time, and I may have a longer one
yet to wait, before I am Michael's wife."

She spoke with a dead monotony of
tone, and a no less monotonous expression
in her face. They stood now in front of
the house. Magdalen beckoned to a
gardener's boy, and told him to send a
groom for Gilbert's horse, after which they
went into the house, into Magdalen's
sitting-room, and she cast off* her fur cloak,
and began to make tea, with the firelight
shining on her crimson crown. Gilbert sat
In a low chair and watched her, but said

nothing. Only when she handed him his
cup of tea, he said softly 

*' Magdalen, I do wish you and Michael
could be married tomorrow."

Thank you."

** Then your life would be brighter."

*' Who told you it was dull ? "

All your actions and words tell me so."

You and I are what they call quiet
people," she remarked. " Not impressionable,
and all that kind of thing."

'' I believe that Is the general opinion
of our characters."

Well, and people also seem to think
that such creatures  pachydermatous, don't
they call animals with thick skins "

'' Has Michael been lending you some
science primers to while away the time
in the winter evenings ? What a happy
thought of his ! "

'you haven t answered my question."

*' They do  pachydermatous Is the
word."

They seem to think that, because weare
not all on fire, and jerking about, for
nothing, we can do without any excitement
at all."

'' I have observed the existence of the
delusion you speak of. Yes, thank you,
I will have some more cake."

*' I don't know what you think, but I
feel to want more excitement than most
people, and I get less. Last night, if I
could have been sure that Michael would
not have misunderstood me, I would have
danced every dance with Otho Askam, if
the result had been that not a woman would
have spoken to me at the end of the evening.
That's the kind of feeling I have."

"I can quite understand it. I wish you
would have tried the experiment  say
with me."

That would not have been at all the
same thing. You are a very good young
man, and Otho Askam is considered rather
a bad one."

Michael is the best of us all."

It is not that I like bad people, but
I like to sing in a different key from that
used by all the rest. I should like to
see them all looking as if the world were
coming to an end. . By the way, Gilbert,
are you such a very good young man ?
They say you are too great a friend of that
timid creature we have been talking about,
who only dances with engaged girls, to be
very good."

Gilbert started  within himself, not outwardly,
stirred his tea, and said carelessly 

Perhaps I cultivate him for reasons
like your own  because I am dull, and it
makes people vexed."

Perhaps. He is very rich, of course.
Gilbert, you have wished me such good
wishes about Michael, it is only fair that
I should wish you well in return. I wish
Otho Askam would relieve you of those
factories that I have heard you speak of.
Then there would be more money in your

coffers, and perhaps more chance of that
marriage coming off, of which you have
been speaking so kindly."

'' You are very good," said Gilbert,
laying down his empty cup ; " but gentlemen
are not in the habit of twisting their
friends' pockets inside out, for their own
advantage."

'' Oh no ! But if the friend had a
leaning towards commercial enterprise  a
speculative spirit. It would be an amusement
for him."

''7/* he had. But you know as well as
I do that his tastes are not of that kind,
but of the turf, turfy."

Magdalen smiled, and said, '' I know
that his tastes are for anything exciting,
anything highly flavoured. What will you
wager that he is tired of the turf in a year
from now ? "

'' Nothing at all. If I did wager on
that subject, I would wager to the contrary."


VOL. I. 7

'' Well, I think his superfluous cash
would be more respectably employed insetting
your factories going."

Here a loud ring sounded through the
house.

I should not wonder if that were
Michael calling," said Magdalen, and she
spoke in hurried tones. '* Remember,
Gilbert, not a word of this. I feel better
for speaking to you ; and Michael is good,
oh, so much better than any of us ! And
he has cares of his own. And you will be
my brother, some day. Do you understand
? "

*' My dear Magdalen, of course ! Do
not distress yourself, pray. There is no
need," he assured her, as Michael entered.

"Why, Gilbert, that is well," said he,
with a look of great pleasure. " I have
often wished that you could spare time to
ride out and have a chat with Magdalen
now and then. Where did you meet } "

Michael sat half an hour, and then the

brothers rode home in company. Magdalen,
when the two young men had left
her, sat for a long time over the fire,
gazing into its glow, her elbows propped
on her knees.

Gilbert is very observant  remarkably
observant," she thought to herself. ** Who
would have thought that he would see so
quickly, and Michael be so blind ? And
yet again, Gilbert sees, but sees only to
dissect  without any feeling, unless it bea
feeling of pleasure in showing one his
power. Michael does not see, but if he
did he would sympathize. He is grand 
at least, he would be if he were awake.
With all his love for me, I have not been
able to awaken him. His time is yet to
come. Sympathize  yes ; but what is
sympathy ? He can't give me what I
want. Here am I, beautiful, yes, very
beautiful, and very strong, and with some
brains in my head, though they all think
I have none. And I have to live, to

vegetate, that Is, as if I were some worn-out
old woman, as if I were my own
great-aunt. It is horrible, horrible, and
I do not know how long I shall be able
to bear it."

A dreary blank seemed to open before
her mind's eye, and still she sat motionless,
staring into the fire.

" Michael is my lover  he does love me,
too. He is the only friend I have, for
no one is fond of me. If they were kind
to me, and really cared for me, I would
not take their Otho Askam away from
them. I wonder if they know what he is,
this creature that they make such a fuss
about ! Perhaps there would be no fuss
if he were dancing attendance on any one
but me  fuss, of course, there would be
no fuss. Gilbert and I know what he is.
He has not been able to conceal his
miserableness from us. And we know
that he himself  the man  is not worth
fiorhtincr for. But I do not mean to let

them have him, all the same. It amuses
me to keep him, and to enrage them.
And I shall go on amusing myself in that
way. Michael is very good, but he is not
amusing. If I were married to him, I
wonder if I should find it as dull as I
do being engaged to him. Surely not.

But "

Here Miss Strangforth's maid came in,
and said her mistress was awake, and was
going to have a cup of tea, and would be
glad if Miss Wynter would go to her.
Magdalen went instantly, and whatever
the state of her own heart, she did not
let her great-aunt feel dull while she sat
with her.

CHAPTER V.

gilbert's cautiousness.

As the young men rode homewards,
Michael again expressed his pleasure at
Gilbert's visit to Balder Hall. Gilbert,
for his part, was meditative and rather
silent during the first part of their ride,
but was presently roused into animation
by a remark of Michaels. Some days
before, Gilbert had been expounding to
Michael, as he was now and then in the
habit of doing, just so much as he thought
fit for him to know of his financial arrangements
and schemes for the future. He had
informed his brother that the estate was
being very gradually retrieved, that he,
Gilbert, began to see daylight  a first

glimmer, through the obscurity. All his
plans, he said, were working well, except
one, which, if he could only accomplish it,
would give an impetus to everything else,
and shorten his work by years ; and that
one was, of course, the sale or letting of
the Townend factories. He could not sell
them : he could not find any capitalist to
work them.

Gilbert had been very much in earnest
when he spoke  in his way of being in
earnest, that is, not vehemently, but
gently. He spoke of the mills, even of
the trouble they gave him, with respect  a
respect which he would have accorded to
no other topic or kind of topic under the
sun. Consequently, it had jarred on his
mood when Michael, lightly flicking his
boot with his riding - whip (for he had
looked in at the Red Gables on his way
from his daily round), and glancing round
the room as he spoke with an absent look,
asked 

** Then, have we no capital now ? "

Gilbert looked at him, almost sharply at
first, and then with a patient expression,
like that of a conscientious teacher trying
to instil some branch of knowledge into
a peculiarly dense pupil.

Not a quarter enough to set the mills
going," he said. '' And if we had, it is
too risky a venture for capital like ours,
that has been snatched, as it were, out of
the gulf it had been flung into."

But if it is too risky for our capital,
surely it is too risky for that of a stranger."

'that does not follow at all, as any
business man could tell you. It does not
follow that because it would be risky for
our capital, it would also be the same
for that of a stranger ; it would entirely
depend upon who the stranger might be,
and what the extent of his possessions."

To this Michael had made very little
reply. Gilbert imagined that he had forgotten
it, but was undeceived as they now

rode together in the winter moonlight. It
was yet early, but dark, save for the clear,
frosty-looking crescent in the sky.

I met Sir Thomas Winthrop this
afternoon," observed Michael. *' We rode
together for a little while, and we were
talking about those factories. Sir Thomas
says he wonders my father does not pull
them both down. The land would sell
fast enough, without them, for building, and
they are in want of cottages down there."

There was a slight pause. Then 

I dare say Sir Thomas Winthrop does
wonder," said Gilbert, going perfectly
white with anger. ''He would give the
world to buy the plot himself and build
cottages on it for his farm-labourers and
people. Does he think I am a fool ? "

"He never mentioned your name at all.
It was my father of whom he was speaking,
to whom the property belongs," said
Michael, a shade of reserve in his tone,
for it was quite true, and had struck even

him more than once, that Gilbert had a
way of speaking of their estate as though
it were not only managed, but owned, by
himself. Michael trusted and believed in
him implicitly, but vias not prepared to
be so sharply taken up.

He is a meddlesome old imbecile, and
I would thank him to mind his own
business," said Gilbert, who had somewhat
recovered his composure. " Michael, do
you trust me, or do you not ? "

As he spoke, he almost pulled up,
and looked his brother full in the face.
Gilbert's countenance, at this period, was
an older countenance than that of Michael.
His brow had already o:ot the first coat-ins:,
as it were, of the network of little
fine wrinkles which afterwards completely
covered it.

'' Trust you ? why, of course," said
Michael almost impatiently.

Then, hearken to a word of advice.
Do not let Sir Thomas Winthrop, or Sir

Thomas anybody, even speak to you of our
affairs. I know what I am about when I
say so. Do you think I'd discuss with
any outsider the way you treat a patient ?
I should know that you knew a hundred
times more about such things than I did,
even if I might not suppose you infallible.
And if you trust me to be doing the best
for us all, you must not discuss what I am
doing or not doing, with any mortal soul,"

I tell you I was not discussing it," said
Michael, his dark brows drawing together.
Sir Thomas began. I met him as I was
riding from "

Sir Thomas be d  d ! " said Gilbert, so
heartily, and with such intense emphasis,
that Michael stared at him. This anger,
passion, and violent language, belonged to
a phase in his brother's character of which
he had scarcely suspected the existence.
This sudden display might have put a
suspicious man on the alert, but Michael
Langstroth was not suspicious; and, moreover,

he was one of those who, while they
can fight the world well enough, can oppose
an iron front to their enemies, and treat
their detractors with careless scorn, are
pretender ver)* weak, ver' sensitive
where their friends and those they love are
concerned. He saw only that Gilbert was
vexed, and felt only that he was sorry to
have been the one to vex him. So to
change the subject, he said 

* Well, I should be glad enough to seethe
factories working again ; but I must say
I wish I had a couple of thousands to start
with. I would be married tomorrow."

Gilbert, who had other views for his
thousands than, to use his own phrase, *' to
give them to Magdalen Wynter to buy
furniture with," felt in his secret soul that
love must make any man feel small ; that
it might make even a generous man selfish.

What interest could you pay ? " he
asked.

Michael shrugged his shoulders, knowing

no reply to that question ; and Gilbert,
in the tone of a tutor, who is master of his
subject, haranguing a pupil who does not
know its ABC, went on : *' You are my
brother, and, of course, I would like to
help you first, if I could ; but we cannot
afford it, Michael. We must wait. It is
our only course. Marriage must wait, and
prosperity must wait. To hand you out
a couple of thousands now, would mean to
throw our affairs back for years ; and as
for my father and me "

*' Oh, of course, I was joking," said
Michael carelessly. " I know there is no
royal road to that kind of thing, but only
hard work, and plenty of it."

He spoke as if he considered the subject
at an end, and they rode the rest of the
way in silence. Gilbert's mind was busy,
and his indignation active in that he had
such a mean-minded brother.

I verily believe he would accept the
situation of overseer to the parish pump,

if it should give him fifty pounds a year,
and bring him any nearer being married
to that doll," he thought ; and this sarcasm
was, as it were, the froth or scum thrown
to the surface by an anger, a fear, and an
emotion which was at that time the deepest
thing he could feel, and of which it was no
more the adequate measure than a yard
stick would be adequate for measuring an
ocean. And afterwards, when this first
ebullition of feeling was over, he fell to
brooding over the matter in a way which
was inevitable from his nature and temperament,
as well as from his upbringing, and
the lines in which his life had been cast.

What will become of my work," he
asked himself, as he often had asked himself
lately, " if my father were to die, as he
might, any day ? If he were to die, and
everything were to be divided ! All that
I have scraped together with such toil, for
so many years. One-half of it as good as
flung into the gutter. Where would my

wages be then ? Michael is not fit to have
control over money which has been earned
by some one else. He does not understand
the subject, and never will. He would
take his share, marry that girl  if she
would have him  and leave me with my
life to begin over again. As for the
factories, if he is fool enough to listen to
Sir Thomas Winthrop, and repeat what he
says, as if it were something worth thinking
about  why, if he can do that, he is capable
of following out Sir Thomas's ideas too.
It is enough to disgust any man, and discourage
him from anything like real work,"
Gilbert went on to himself, *'to think he
has so precarious a hold as I have upon
things which would not be existing now,
but for his devotion. One ought to have
some more secure prospect, if only to give
one a little heart in one's exertions."

Long after they had parted and gone
their separate ways, Gilbert was silent,
revolving this problem in his mind ; and

the more he thought about it, the bigger
and usher it grew.

Michael cares for nothing but to gratify
his own wishes and impulses," Gilbert
thought, darkly, feeling that this tendency
of Michael's interfered disagreeably with
certain plans and projects of his own,
which he did not recognize as proceeding
from the same source.

After that, the conversations between
them on such matters grew ever rarer and
less expansive. Michael did not dwell on
the matter, and, if he had thought about
it, would have been too proud to allude toit
after Gilbert had asked him whether he
trusted him ; and something, whether pride
or another feeling, hindered Gilbert from
opening out. Every day he grew more
sedate, and his brow became grayer and
more covered with its network of little
fine wrinkles.

CHAPTER VI.

gilbert's '* COUP DE THEATRE."

Towards the end of every hunting season,
those men in Bradstane and its vicinity
who belonged to the institution known as
the Tees Valley Hunt, were in the habit of
meeting at the King's Arms in Bradstane,
and there partaking together of a luncheon,
at which Sir Thomas Winthrop, the master,
presided, and after which he read out
the statistics of the past season, and laid
before the assembled company any proposed
new arrangements for the following
year. Nothing was decided then ; a
regular, meeting was called, to be held a
week later, in which the affairs were discussed
in earnest, and real business was

VOL. I. 8

done. It had come to pass with the lapse
of years, that the gathering had become a
very sociable one, dear to the hearts of
those who partook in it ; and they would
not have given it up on any account.

This luncheon usually took place in the
beginning of March, and was often a good
deal talked about before it came off. It
had been December when the meeting
took place between Magdalen and Gilbert,
during which each had silently given credit
to the other for much keenness and acuteness
of observation. It had been cold
and inclement then, and a long bleak
winter had followed, during which the
interview had not been repeated  at least,
no such meeting as that. It may be that
Gilbert had many a time ridden over the
wild road leading from Bradstane to
Middleton-in-Teesdale, for it was his habit
daily to take a long walk or a long ride.
He may have travelled over this road,
solitary and sedate, as his wont and

humour were, his hips moving now and
then, when he felt himself to be quite alone
on the silent roads, as if he whispered to
himself endless calculations, but never too
absorbed to recognize an acquaintance and
acknowledge him if he met him  never too
abstracted to know his own whereabouts
amidst the moors and commons, or intricate
cross-country roads.

And it is more than probable that
Magdalen, on her part, had many a dozen
times paced that woodland path on which
Gilbert had found her, trying, by the
regular mechanical motion which, in her
own mind, she compared with that of a
treadmill, to grind down or pace out
some of the suppressed savageness and
discontent which gnawed her soul. This
walking to and fro was almost her only
mode of taking outdoor exercise. Withall
her veiled eagerness, her bitter sense
of the consuming dulness of her life, she
never left the Balder Hall grounds on foot,

never sought any companionship with outside
things or people. For her there were
no long rambles, no casual, friendly greeting
with farm or cottage folk whom she
might see on the way.

This seclusion on her part was a subject
on which she and Michael had occasional
differences of opinion, which could hardly
be called disputes, since Magdalen was
in the habit of yielding the field at once ,
to Michael in the matter of argument,
merely telling him that no doubt he
was quite right, and simply refusing to
change her ways because she did not
choose to do so.

"It Is too bad of you," said he, "when
there is so much work crying out to be
done. I could find you plenty of employment
in Bridge Street, and one or two
other slums."

I haven't a doubt of It. I feel not
the slightest vocation for anything of the
kind."

'' It is bad to sit aloft in meaningless
exclusiveness."

'' I dare say it is. It is the only kind
of thing I care for, here. I hate district
visiting, and people who make themselves
common, too."

*' You could not make yourself common
if you tried, and it would put more interest
into your life."

'' No, it would disgust me ; that would
be all. Every night I should think of
all the horrid scenes and horrid people
I had seen in the day. I should be
always seeing you mixed up with them,
and I should get to think you as horrid
as they were  you need not look at mein
that way. It's my nature. . . . Oh,
I dare say you are quite right, Michael 
indeed, you always are  but I don't take
any interest in those things, and I don't
want to. I prefer to remain as I am."

*' As I am," was exquisite enough in
its refinement, hauteur, and beauty. Had

any one else so spoken, Michael would
clearly have discerned, and probably
pointed out, an odious spirit of pride
and exclusiveness. As It was Magdalen,
he thought, certainly, that she was unreasonable,
but he found the unreasonableness
agreeable ; he liked the shape
which It took  that of fastidiousness  and
was not disposed to quarrel with it. The
rare and wonderful creature was his own ;
he had never even yet felt as if he fairly
understood that fact, or could think
enough of It. He suggested, with a smile
lighting up the dark gravity of his face,
that he should drive her round some day
in his dog-cart, when he had not many
places to call at. She slightly lifted her
eyebrows, and drew out the silk with
which she was embroidering.

No, sir. When you have a half-holiday,
and wish to devote It to me, I
will drive you out, or ride with you. At
other times  I know It Is not intellectual,

or humane, but it is so  I prefer the
wood-walk in the park ; I will remain at
home."

She did remain at home, and took her
monotonous strolls along the woodland
path, or might now and then be seen,
alone, in an open carriage, pale and
tranquil and indifferent-looking, enveloped
in her dark furs and feathers, with a huge
light-gray fur rug filling up the rest of the
carriage, and this even on days when
the wind was keen and the frost biting.
She was well aware that not one woman
in twenty could have driven about Brad-stane
in winter, in an open carriage,
without her countenance assuming rainbow
hues. She could drive thus, and
return home without a red nose or blue
cheeks ; and it gave her a negative,
cynical pleasure to do it, and watch other
people on foot, or sealed up in stuffy
broughams with both windows shut.

The evening before the luncheon

already spoken of, Michael was with her,
and she asked him if he were going to
be present at it.

*' No," said he; "I'm engaged at the
time, but Gilbert is going."

*' Gilbert ! why, he surely does not
generally go."

No, but he seems to take more interest
in sport since he became such a
chum of Askam's ; and, of course, he will
be there."

''Ah, of course," said Magdalen.

Of all the queer partnerships I ever
knew, that one is the queerest," added
Michael reflectively.

*' Do you think so ? It seems to me
the most natural thing in the world.
Would you have had Gilbert take up
with a nobody ? "

"My dear Magdalen ! I was going
to say, a nobody would be better than
Otho Askam ; but as he's a friend of yours,
too, I suppose there are excellences in

him which my baser vision can't perceive.
And I know what you mean by 'nobody.'
That's poor Roger Camm. Well, I'll
leave you your friend, If you'll leave me
mine."

'' I have not the slightest desire to
know anything about Mr. Roger Camm
certainly not to interfere with him,"
replied Magdalen coldly. Michael merely
smiled the sweet smile which Magdalen,
in her heart of hearts, considered insipid,
and the discussion ended.

At two o'clock on the following afternoon,
some forty men, young and old, sat
down at the long table. In the great room
at the " King's Arms." The so-called
*' lunch " was, in fact, a very substantial
dinner, as such luncheons are wont to
be. Sir Thomas Winthrop sat at one end
of the table, and at the other was a very
young man, called Lord Charles Startforth,
representing his father. Every family
of standing in all the country-side had

sent a representative, and every man
present was more or less acquainted with
every other member of the company.

At Sir Thomas's right hand sat Otho
Askam, with a cross look in his eyes,
and a more sullen expression than usual
on his brow and mouth. Sir Thomas was
a very worthy, honourable gentleman,
ready to take a paternal interest in any
young man of promise ; but he was nota
student of character, nor acute in reading
the silent language of expression, as seen
on a human face. From Otho's quietness,
and his monosyllabic answers to
the remarks made to him. Sir Thomas
augured a milder mood than usual, and
resolved that now or never was the time
for him to say his say ; for he had on his
mind '' a few words " intended for Otho's
ear  words which he had succeeded in
convincing himself it was his duty to say.
On the opposite side, a little lower down,
sat Gilbert Langstroth, and next to him
was Byrom Winthrop.

As the wine went round, the talk grew
faster and freer. Men saw each other
to-day who had, perhaps, not met for sometime
past, and these meetings called up
recollections, brought out questions, to
which the expansiveness of the moment
produced confidential answers.

At the end of the table over which Lord
Charles Startforth presided, a discussion
suddenly began about some of those who
sat near Sir Thomas Winthrop.

What a lowering face that Askam has ! "
was the observation which began the
conversation.

His face can't be more lowering than
his temper," replied some one else.

Hah ! I see there's his inseparable
chum, not so far off him."

Gilbert Langstroth, do you mean ?
Oh yes ! He's never so far away from him.
I have heard that that young man has a
very long head, and would not object to
going into partnership with Otho Askam

Askam to supply the money, and Lang-troth
the brains."

The other laughed. '' What, on Arthur
Morton's plan, do you mean ? ' Some
people plenty money and no brains, and
other people plenty brains and no ' "

Oh, come ! That's too bad. Lang-troth
is a gentleman."

'' I never said he wasn't, that I know
of. Gentlemen have got to live, like
other people, though these radicals " (with
a growl) '' seem to grudge us our very
existence."

Oh, hang all radicals ! You say Lang-troth
is a gentleman  Gilbert, I mean.
His brother is, at any rate. I don't know
a better fellow anywhere."

No, nor I." The assent was general.
Then some one else said 

He doesn't seem to get married."
" No ; that engagement has been hanging
on far too long."

A slight pause, and then, leaning confidentially

forward, the first speaker
said 

Somebody else doesn't seem to get
married, either."

A sort of smile went round. Then
Lord Charles, with the rash candour of
youth, made the remark aloud which
every one else had been making in his
own mind.

I wonder if Michael Langstroth knows
that every one says Otho Askam is sweet
upon his intended ? "

One man shrugged his shoulders.

If he did know, what could he do, or
say :

I don't know what he could say, I'm
sure ; but what he could do would be to
get married to her at once."

Here a rather timid-looking young
man, who had hitherto taken no part in
the conversation, joined in, with a slight
stammer 

If he had to marry her like that, it

would be all spoiled for him. He t- trusts
her."

'' Ah, ses ; very beautiful of him," said a
sceptical spirit ; and then a feeling seemed
to prevail that the talk had gone far
enough In that direction. Indeed, the
conversation at the other end of the table
had become somewhat loud, and the
speakers with whom we have been concerned
began to look and listen what it
was all about.

What had taken place was this. Sir
Thomas Winthrop, good gentleman, feeling
his heart warmed within him, took
advantage of much loud talk around
him to address a few words to Otho
Askam.

"I'm glad to see you with us to-day,
Mr. Askam."

Thank you," said Otho, with his
wooden bow.

I hope you found the sport to your
liking," added the baronet. '' We consider

it has been rather a good season, on the
whole."

It has been nothing to complain of,"
was the gracious reply.

Encouraged by this admission, Sir
Thomas filled his glass, and said 

I hope this will not be the last time,
by many, that we shall meet on an occasion
like this."

Again Otho bowed stiffly, drank his
glass of wine, and gave ear to Sir Thomas,
as he proceeded 

*' I'm glad to see you and Gilbert Lang-troth
so thick. He's a very intelligent
young man."

Rather ! " observed Otho emphatically,
with a nod, and what would have been a
wink, only he remembered in time that
such a testimony to Gilbert's intelligence
might be thought rather compromising
than otherwise by his interlocutor. In his
own mind, and speaking to Gilbert in his
own language, Otho called Sir Thomas " a

rum old party, and green as grass, you
know," and this private opinion, which he
held very strongly, rendered it a little
difficult to him to meet the other now on
equal terms.

Sir Thomas went on 

''He has behaved in a very admirable
way to his father, and I always like to see
that In a youth. He has almost retrieved
their affairs, which were in a deplorable
condition."

His voice took a confidentially funereal
tone, and he shook his head.

'' Yes, I know," said Otho vaguely, and
at this juncture he caught Gilbert's eye,
and indulged In the luxury of the wink,
which, In regard to Sir Thomas, he had had
to suppress. Gilbert's countenance did not
alter a jot, but he became watchful.

Of course," resumed Sir Thomas, for
whom the subject appeared to have a fatal
fascination, ''a young man, who has had
to do battle with reverses, as he has, Is apt

to think his affairs are the centre of the
universe, and that every one else is as much
concerned in them as he is himself."

To this Otho said nothing, but he regarded
Sir Thomas with a curious, bulldog
expression.

I'm afraid he is just a little rash in
some things," Sir Thomas went on. '' For
instance, there's that property by the
river  those Townend mills. I have
heard that he is bent upon setting them
to work again." And as Otho made no
reply, "Do you know if he has any project
of that kind?"

In the fulness of his heart and head he
had not moderated his tones sufficiently ;
and, as the loud conversation about them
had somewhat lulled, this question was
distinctly audible, not only to Otho, but
to many others, even so far down as where
Gilbert Langstroth and Byrom Winthrop
sat. The former, though no names had
been spoken, knew v/ith unerring cere

I. 9

talnty, that it was himself to whom the
baronet alluded ; and Byrom Winthrop said
within himself, '' If only I were near enough
to stop the governor! He's perfectly infatuated
about those factories of Gilbert
Langstroth's, and he'll go and say something:
he ouoht not to."

Otho's answer came quite distinctly too,
in bluff, curt tones.

I can't inform you on that topic. All
I know of it was told me in confidence."

Quite right, quite right ! " said Sir
Thomas, with the fatuity of an elderly
gentleman, in whom a solid meal, judiciously
mingled with sound wine, has developed
the sense of benevolence to an
abnormal degree. *' That's only just and
honourable. But listen to me. Your
father was a friend of mine ; therefore, I
may be allowed to say a word to you.
Don't be incautious, my young friend."
Byrom Winthrop's eyes were fixed in an
agony of apprehension upon his father, ashe

marked the rubicund visage beaming-with
too much amiability, and saw the
finger raised ; the eye, earnest, but unobservant,
fixed upon Otho ; and heard these
words  for the conversation around had
almost ceased  " Don't let Gilbert Lane-troth,
or any one else, let you in for something
you don't know the end of. Take
my word for it, Bradstane is not the site fora
manufacturing town ; and gentlemen like
us had better keep clear of factories. The
best thing to do with those mills would be
to pull them down, and build cottages
where they stand ; and if you sink any
money in the concern, stick to that, stick
to that ! "

He leaned back in his chair with a
smile, a fatuous smile, upon his visage.
It was perfectly evident to the meanest
observer, that Sir Thomas Winthrop had
become cheerful, and that he had just
said a very uncomfortable kind of thing ;
not that there might not be plenty of truth

in the thing, but to have said it aloud
was truly unfortunate.

Gilbert Langstroth had started up, his
face pale, and was leaning forward, with
compressed lips, apparently about to speak.
Byrom Winthrop said in his ear 

'' Don't make a row, Gilbert. You know
the word ' manufactures ' always sets him
off It means nothing."

Then a thing happened which no one
was prepared for. Otho Askam, looking
round, observed 

I see a lot of you have heard what
Sir Thomas has been saying. All I
can say is, I did not bring on the discussion
; but now that it is on, I'd have
every man here know that Gilbert Lang-troth
is my friend ; and whoever says a
word against him, says it against me. The
business that Sir Thomas speaks of, has
been mentioned between us. I wanted to
help him with it, and he wouldn't let me 
if you call that ' letting me in for something

that I can't see the end of.' He
said it was a risky thing for my money.
I say, d  n the risk ! He's welcome to
half of all that I've got, and if he does
not choose to take it, why, I say he does
not know what friendship is. Shake
hands, Gilbert."

Gilbert had been listening, white and
breathless. Sir Thomas, in feeble despair,
was protesting, in the futile way common
to people who have stirred up a riot without
having the least idea how to quell it,
that really, it was most unfortunate. He
never meant  he had no idea ; and so
forth.

Gilbert suddenly turned upon him, with
his blue-gray eyes flashing from his pale
face.

I do not know what ideas you may
have had, sir, nor what you meant, but it
is not the first time you have attacked me,
and said ill things of me behind my back.
You tried to set my own brother against

me on this very subject. You will pardon
my presumption in saying it, but upon my
word I cannot see what our family affairs
are to you. I have fought my father's
battle, and that for my brother and myself,
without appealing to you for help. But,"
he added, with a sudden change of tone
which went subtly home to his hearers,
'you have done me a good turn to-day,
when you would have done me an ill one.
You have shown me who is my friend."
He struck his hand into that of Otho,
which was still held out, and looked him
full in the face. '' I hear what you say,
Askam, and as long as I live I shall not
forget that you have stood by me while
my father's friend and your father's friend
maligned me to you. I think I will say
good afternoon," he added, as a stinging
parting shaft to Sir Thomas. '' It would
be embarrassing for us both to remain, and
it is fitter that I should leave than you."
With which, and with a slight and perfectly

self-possessed bow to Sir Thomas
and the assembled company, he departed,
and Otho Askam with him.

This scene, of course, made a great
sensation, and that night was reported far
and wide, throughout many miles of Yorkshire
and Durham Every man agreed in
saying that Sir Thomas Winthrop was apt
to become too expansive on these occasions,
and that they hoped it would be a
lesson to him. As to Gilbert and Otho,
and their behaviour, opinions differed.
Men spoke of their parts in the fray according
to their own feelings and dispositions,
some saying that it was a touching
example of faith and friendship, others
leaning to the opinion that Otho Askam,
in tomorrow's stingy fit, would repent him
of his reckless generosity to-day; while one
observer said 

I suppose there was something real in
it. I'm sure there was on Askam's side,
at any rate ; but that Gilbert Langstroth is

a queer fellow. I'm certain, if you could
see to the bottom of his heart, you would
find gratitude to Sir Thomas for having
given him such a chance. It was very
telling, that slightly trembling voice, and
that little side stroke about having fought
their battles alone, and without asking Sir
Thomas's help. It made Sir Thomas look
confoundedly foolish, and as if he had
been doing a very mean thing."

And don't you think he had ? "

Certainly not. He had been doing
what he thought was the very best for
everybody, and in the most disinterested
way. Only, you know, he hates what he
calls tradespeople like poison ; and the
idea of knocking Gilbert's factories on the
head was just too much for him."

'well, I'm much mistaken if he has not
given them a good push towards a fresh
start."

'' I quite agree with you." And there
was a laugh at the expense of Sir Thomas.

The poor gentleman hid his diminished
head that night, and it was not till the
following morning that he had so far revived
as to be able to take a tone of
dignified bitterness, and grave satire on his
own good-nature. *' Selfishness," he informed
Lady Winthrop, " was the only
policy that paid, and never again would he
commit the mistake of offering disinterested
advice to young men, even though they
might be the sons of his oldest friends."

It never transpired what passed between
Gilbert and Otho at any private interview
after this scene, but it was not very long
afterwards, that Gilbert, with a tranquil
smile on his face, sat down to his desk and
wrote the following letter :

Dear Roger,

'' Do you remember, when you
were staying with us, my taking you down
to the end of the town, to look at those
two factories ? And I asked you if you

would come and manage them, supposing
I ever got them to work again. You said
you would, if you were not tied down to
something else, or in a much better position.
Michael tells me you are still in the
same place, and not too well satisfied with
it. I am going to claim your promise.
My friend, Otho Askam, has bought the
mills ; at least, an arrangement has been
made by which they will most likely become
his in time, unless they pay so well
that we can afford to repay him his advances.
He entrusts the whole direction
of them to me, and I intend to spin jute in
them, as I told you before. I should like
to have your aid and counsel as soon as
ever you can give them to me. I hope
you have not changed your mind, and that
you will not think the salary too small.
We find that we cannot offer you more
than ; 1 20 to begin with, but it would be
advanced on the first possible opportunity ;
and with the increasing prosperity of the

Gilbert Langstroth."

The result of this letter was, that
within six weeks of its having been
written, there lounged into the library
of the Red Gables one afternoon an
immensely tall, broad-shouldered young
man, with a great shock of loose black
hair ; a pale, rough-hewn, plain face, clever
and attractive ; and with a wonderfully delicate
forehead  a young man who was in

the habit of saying the roughest kind of
things In the softest of voices. This was
Roger Camm, the former friend and playfellow
of the two Langstroths when they
had all been boys together. According to
his owen account, he had turned himself into
a working man in order to save his own
self-respect, and because he had no affect
thon for the Church, which had treated his
father so scurvily. According to Michael
Langstroth, he was the best and truest
friend that ever a man had. And according
to Gilbert, he was a shrewd, " level-headed
" man of business, who was going
to help him to set his factories going, and,
incidentally, set his, Gilbert's, fortunes
going in the right direction.

Here I am," was Roger Camm's
canonical greeting.

*' And not before you were wanted,"
replied Gilbert, rising to meet him with
outstretched hand and his sweetest smile.
You are welcome as flowers in May."

That shows my value to be high,"
said Roger. " There are not many to be
found, then, in these latitudes. Where am
I to put up till I find rooms ? "

"Why, here, of course. Everything is
ready for you. But I believe Michael
expects you to dine with him to-night."

Thus Roger Camm was, as it were,
inducted .into his new position. He told
himself that night, before he went to
sleep, that it was odd that his life's course
should bring him back to Bradstane,
the little country market-town which he
despised ; and that his lot, at a critical
period, should again be cast in with these
others whom he had known when young,
but from whom he had believed himself
to be, practically, finally severed when he
had left his native place to-begin work ina
great city.

CHAPTER VII.

MICHAEL, ROGER, GILBERT.

Talking with Michael one day, soon after
his arrival, on the subject of the factories,
Roger discovered to his surprise that his
friend strongly disapproved of the enterprise.


I am not one of the company, you maybe
very sure," he said.

"I wish I had known. I would have
taken care to have nothing to do with it,"
cried Roger, perturbed.

*' On the contrary, I am very glad you
have something to do with it. I have
more confidence in it since you came. I
dare say my reasons for disliking it may

sound quite absurd. I know they are
not business-like. I dislike Askam, and
I think the friendship between him and
Gilbert is quite unnatural. The more I
see of him the more convinced I am of
this. I know for a fact that Otho Askam
took the thing up out of pure speculative-ness,
for an adventure, partly to please
Gilbert, who has got a wonderful influence
over him, but chiefly to vex Sir Thomas
Winthrop," and Michael briefly recounted
the scene which had taken place at the
King's Arms. '' After that, nothing
would satisfy Otho but to get the thing
started at once. I don't believe in the
stability of an enterprise built upon any
such foundation, though I have no doubt
Gilbert will push it through, if it is to be
done. He says he is quite satisfied with
things as they are. Let them be ! I am
glad you get anything good out of it"

Roger said nothing to this, but he
watched Michael when he could do so

unobserved, and he became very thoughtful.
He saw that his friend's face was
thinner, and his smile less frequent than
it had been. There was a little fold
between his eyebrows, telling of a mind
not always at ease. These changes had
taken place in two years, though Michael
had been, in a small way, getting on in
the world.

Six busy months passed, during which
Roger had his work cut out for him, and
so much of it, that he could scarce compass
each day's task in its allotted time. The
labour was severe, the pay was not very
large; the enterprise was a risky one.
But he was one of those organizations
which seem to thrive and feed on hardwork
and herculean exertions as others
do on meat and recreation ; he enjoyed it
all, and it seemed to put new life into him.
It really looked as if Gilbert's little boast
to Otho in past days, that if he did not
know how to manage mills, he did understand

how to manage men, were literally
true, so perfectly was this new-comer of
his selection suited for the task offered to
him. The stiffer the work, the higher
did his spirits rise. The employment was
varied, too. It was not as if he had
entered upon a business which was ready
and in smooth working order. The whole
concern wanted " floating," in a small way,
and on him fell the burden of doing it.
There was not only the new machinery
to see about  which Roger thoroughly
understood, and into the details of which
he went with the zeal of an enthusiast 
there were also the repairs necessary to
the buildings themselves, after standing
so many years empty and idle ; to the
boilers and the engines, all of which it
took time and money to set in order.
Then there was the getting together a
sufficient number of hands, chiefly women
and girls, most of them out of Bridge
Street, some from one or two of the neigh-vol.

I. 10

pouring villages ; and again, some skilled
artisans from Barrow-inverness, to instruct
the novices in their work ; and all
this had to be done with the utmost
economy possible. It was an enormous
task, which pleased Roger greatly ; and
while he was working at It, he had no
time to spare, even for Michael.

When he had come to Bradstane, there
had been a question about where he was
to live. This was settled by Dr. Rown-
tree, who said 

'' Come to the barrack, and put up with
Michael and me."

Roger hesitated a little at first, but there
was no mistaking the sincerity of the
doctor's wish, and the young man was very
willing to be persuaded ; for, to tell the
truth, there was no one In the world in
whose proximity he loved so well to be
as In that of Michael Langstroth. He
therefore soon allowed his scruples to be
overcome, and so was formed this odd

triangular household of bachelors, old and
young, and hard work was the order of
the day.

While Roger was full of business, and
seeming to grow heartier and stronger the
more he had to do, Michael, he noticed,
when he had time to notice him, was a
good deal quieter and staider than he
once had been ; not with the dulness of
discontent, it would seem, nor of depression,
but, so far as Roger could make out, just
with the quietness which comes to nearly
all men, as life lays gradually increasing
burdens upon them. Roger sometimes
wondered if his long engagement pressed
upon Michael, but at the sound of Magdalen's
name there always crossed his face
that expression which, the first time Roger
had seen it, had wrung his heart, because
it had told him that a spell stronger
than friendship had taken possession of
Michael's being. They did not talk about
such things, or '' confide " in each other 

such is not the way of men's friendships,
nor, perhaps, of any deep friendships ; and
then, Michael, with his outwardly urbane
and gracious manner, was deeply reserved
on personal matters ; and Roger, for all his
rouofh exterior, and oftentimes untutored
tongue, had what is called, and very
generally miscalled, " the tact of a woman,"
in regard to such topics.

But Michael had on one or two occasions,
when something had stirred him more
than usual, let fall a few words as to his
own inner experiences, which Roger had
treasured up, and rightly so, as evidences
of more than brotherly regard, and of an
entire confidence in him on Michael's part.

Speaking one day about an illness of
old Miss Strangforth, which had been
serious, and in which both he and Dr.
Rowntree had been attending her, there
was a shade on Michael's brow, and a
worried, worn look on his face.

*' Is Miss Strangforth likely to die.

Michael?" asked Roger, roused to a
sudden interest in the matter.

'' Oh no ! At least, I most sincerely
trust not. No ; we will pull her through
this time."

Miss Wynter is helping to nurse her,
of course ? "

Yes, of course  like an angel."

I should be afraid it was rather close
work for her."

'' They have a trained nurse to do the
hardest part of it ; and she is strong.
Magdalen is very strong," Michael repeated
to himself in a meditative kind
of way. '* And, of course, she does what
I tell her about air and exercise, and all
that. I hope it won't injure her."

** Well, she has the best of all possible
safeguards in having you there," said
Roger, with a smile, which was, perhaps,
a little forced.

He had intended his remark to be a
cheering one, but, to his surprise, Michael's

answer was a deep sigh. This was enough
to rouse Rogers uneasiness. Holding
his pipe suspended, he asked, anxiously,
Michael, what's up ? Are you in
trouble ? "

'' It's only that what you say reminds
me that I am no safeguard at all for her,"
he said dejectedly. '' I sometimes think
what a selfish brute I was, ever to speak
to her. If I had held my tongue and
kept out of the way, she might have been
married by now, to some man who could
really have been that protector, which I
can only seem to be. After all, what can
I do for her ? I cannot save her from
experiences like this. I cannot justly
afford to marry, for several years to come.
It would be gross selfishness to take her
away from Balder Hall to any such place
as I could give her. And yet, if Miss
Strangforth were to die  she is so old,
and so feeble  if she were to die, there
would be nothing else left."

'' And a great deal too good for her,"
was the silent comment in Roger's bosom.
He found Michaels remarks very difficult
to answer. He had an idea, whether right
or wrong, that Magdalen, whom he could
not love, let him strive never so loyally
for his friend's sake to do so, was not
the frail and timid creature that Michael
seemed to imagine her. Roger felt sure
that the idea as to the impropriety of removing
her from Balder Hall to a humbler
abode was hers, not Michael's. He felt
sure she did not stand in much need of
guardianship, but was well able to fight
her own battles and take care of herself.
He heard all the gossip about Michael
and Miss Wynter, which, of course, never
penetrated to their ears ; heard, too, Gilbert's
frequent scathing strictures on his
future sister-in-law. He knew all about
Otho Askam's frequent visits to Balder
Hall. So did Michael; but then, Roger
knew what was said about those visits.

He remarked at last, with the cowardice
characteristic of us all in such cases, and,
perhaps, also with a shrewd inkling that
it would not be of much use to speak
differently 

Of course, it is hard lines, Michael,
having to wait so long. But even if you
were married tomorrow, you can't forbid
care and trouble to come to either her or
you. There are no lives without them.
But Miss Wynter is a brick, I know " (this
with great emphasis, as he felt anything
but sure of it) ; '* she ought to be proud
of waiting for you, and I expect she is."

Do you know," said Michael, with the
air of a man who announces something
which will surprise his hearer, " I believe
that if she were not engaged to me, Otho
Askam would propose to her tomorrow."

Roger looked at him with parted lips.
Michael evidently thought the news would
be as great a discovery to his friend as it
had been to himself.

\

V

"Well," observed Roger shortly, 'you
don't mean to say you think that would be
to her advantage ? "

Perhaps not, in some ways ; but "

'' Not in any one way," almost shouted
Roger, bringing his fist on to the table
with a thump. *' That would be Hyperion
to a satyr, without the shadow of a doubt."

*' I know nothing about that," said
Michael, still in the same dejected tone,
but I do know that she is all the world
to me, and I cannot give her up ; no, by
Heaven, I cannot ! "

He spoke with a flurry, an agitation,
and a passion, most unlike his usual even
cheerfulness.

Give her up ? Who wants you to ? "

No one. It's only my own conscience
that sometimes suggests what I ought todo."


''If your conscience suggests that, it is
deceitful, and a blind guide. But come,
Michael, old fellow, you are morbid to

talk in this way. The Idea of a man of
six and twenty looking at things so darkly !
Absurd ! You have your life before you."

He went on talking In this strain till he
saw the cloud gradually clear from Michael's
brow, and heard him admit that he was
sure he must be a fool ; and so, begin to
look a little brisker.

But Roger was thoughtful as he went
about his work.

*' Give her up ! " he said to himself.
He'll never give her up till she flings him
off. Poor Michael! That is the only cure
for him ; and perhaps It wouldn't be one,
after all. Should I be brute enough to
wish it for him ? "

And then he thought about the change
in Michael's face, so altered from its
youthful pride and carelessness ; but, as it
seemed to Roger, more beautiful now, with
the graver, broader seal of manhood
stamped upon It  that seal which care
never lets out of her fingers, and which

she is perpetually imprinting on every
brow that carries on it a line worth
reading.

If Roger were concerned about the
change in Michael, Michael, on his part,
was much struck  concerned, is hardly the
word  by what seemed to him a great
alteration in Gilbert. It appeared as if
hard work suited Gilbert as well as it did
Roger, for the more his business grew, the
livelier he became.

Lively ?" said Miss Wynter, to whom
Michael had one evening been speaking
on the subject.

"Yes, lively. It's the only word I can
find with which to describe the change ;
and I don't wonder that you exclaim at
it, for ' lively ' is hardly a word that fits
Gilbert, is it ? "

No, indeed ! Pray, what shape does
the liveliness take ? " asked Magdalen,
who appeared almost interested.

''Oh, I can hardly tell you. A quickness

and alertness  I can hardly describe
it. He makes jokes sometimes, and laughs
at a mere nothing which is not Gilbert's
way, you know, as a rule. He talks a
great deal, too, which is also contrary to
his usual habits. He takes my arm if we
meet, and altogether there is something
odd and changed in his manner."

Perhaps he is in love," suggested Magdalen
languidly.

Michael shrugged his shoulders, smiling
slightly.

'' He may be, but I don't think it." And
so the topic dropped, till Michael returned
to the town, and during the evening related
this supposition of Magdalen's.

I don't know whether he's in love or
not," said the doctor, who, for his part, was
certainly not in love with Gilbert ; " but
he was in here to-day to see you, when
you were out ; and he says your father
intends to make his will, and he wants
you to know about it."

To make his will. I should have
thought he had made it long ago."

So he did, for I was one of the witnesses
; but it has to be altered, with all
these complications about factories and
property to be sold, and such-like."

Oh ! well, Gilbert will see to it ; he
has always managed that kind of thing,"
said Michael carelessly. " I don't see
what I have to do with it."

I should say you had a good deal todo
with it. You certainly ought to look
after it."

*' Look after my father s will ! what for ?
He's got no one to leave anything to,
except Gilbert and me. He'll divide
between us, I suppose. I should not
like to think that Gilbert got less than
me, seeing how he has slaved all these
years in order that there may be anything
to leave at all."

Dr. Rowntree looked impatient, and,
Michael having left the room, the doctor

remarked to Roger, in homely phraseology,
that he did not know whether to call
Michael a trump, or to tell him he was
a born fool, when he talked in such a way.
To which Roger merely replied that he
supposed men were best left to decide
such matters for themselves.

I mistrust that Gilbert ; he is too sly
for me," said the doctor.

He has a quiet way. I don't think
he is exactly sly," answered Roger, and
the subject of their conversation came in
at the moment. Michael, he was told,
was in the study, and he went there and
briefly told him again what Mr. Langstroth
thought of doing.

'all right," said Michael, examining
some substance under his microscope with
the interest interest. '' So that he leaves
as much to you as to me, I'm agreeable.
I hope we shan't have to read it for a longtime
to come."

Gilbert cast a look of anger, contempt.

and wonder, mixed, towards Michael, who
did not even see it. There was a short
silence, till Gilbert observed, in a constrained
voice 

*' Well, remember, I am not answerable
for anything he does."

'' Does ! " echoed Michael, his attention
at last thoroughly aroused ; " when you
say ' does ' in that way, you mean ' does '
something wrong. What could or should
he do against his own sons ? Have you
any idea that he means to do something
unjust to us ? "

"No; oh no!" A pause. "But it is
an important thing. He told me he meant
to make this will, and I was determined
he should not do it till I had told you.
Of course, he does not dream of leaving
his property away from us. Why should
he, as you say ? "

Michael, still peering into his microscope,
was quite unaware that close beside
him a brother man stood, who had

wrestled with spiritual agencies, and had
been defeated, during the last two
minutes.

Our father has his faults, like most
people," pursued Michael reflectively ; '' but
I never heard any one accuse him of
injustice or meanness. He wouldn't be
likely to leave his property to a charitable
institution, for instance ? "

Of course not," said Gilbert impatiently.


Well, then, I really don't see that we
need, or, indeed, can say anything about
it. In fact, I shall not," he added, looking
up rather suddenly at his brother, as if he
had all at once seen the thing in a new
licht, and arrived at a clear decision.
'' He is my father, and I trust him. For
heaven's sake, Gilbert, don't get to distrusting
people, or you may make yourself
miserable for ever. Take my advice,
old fellow, and let him alone."

Yes," said Gilbert slowly. '' I think

that, as you say, it will be best to leave
him alone."

He said scarcely anything more, and
soon went away.

'' A pretty fool he is ! " he sneered to
himself, when he was outside, as he
walked up and down the pavement in front
of their house, smoking an ante-prandial
pipe. " Lord ! what with ' hearts,' and
not distrusting any one, and respecting
the aged (who are usually fools), my
brother Michael is likely to lose the use
of what little reason he has, it seems tome.
There never was an elephant with
a denser head than he has. He has eyes
like a hawk's, and mine are more like
those of a boiled codfish ; but I think I
know which pair can see furthest into
a stone wall."

The next morning Michael called at
the Red Gables, and found his father
alone. He had been reflecting upon
Gilbert's words, it would seem, for he

VOL. I. n

presently said to Mr. Langstroth that he
had heard he intended making a new will.
His father assented, and Michael observed,
''If Gilbert had not told me, sir, as if it
had been a thing you rather wished me
to know, I should never have mentioned
it, of course. But since he did, I just
want to say one thing. Whatever prosperity
we have is due to Gilbert. He,
more than I, has been the eldest son. It
is just due to circumstances, I suppose,
that it has been so ; but I would not like
it to be forgotten."

I do not forget what Gilbert has been,
and is to me, nor the qualities he has
displayed," was Mr. Langstroth's reply ;
and Michael went away with his mind at
ease, feeling that he had discharged his
duty.

The day after that, Gilbert, who had not
seen his brother in the interim, ordered his
horse early. Mr. Langstroth asked him
fretfully where he was going.

Only for a little ride," said Gilbert ;
and, by the way, Coningsby is coming at
eleven. You told me to tell him, and I
did."

Shan't you be here ? " asked his father,
in a tone almost of dismay.

'' Well, no, I think not," replied Gilbert,
with his sweetest smile. " It would hardly
do. But if you have not quite made up
your mind, I could send him word "

'* Oh, no, no ! My mind is quite made
up  quite. Let him come."

I think it would be best," said the
considerate son. " Good morning. I hope
it won't tire you much." With which he
went out.

The " little ride " prolonged itself indefinitely,
as it seemed. Far along the
hard, white moorland roads he went, past
Middleton - in - Teesdale, a road which
seemed to have some peculiar fascination
for him, since he chose it oftener than any
other. On he went, till he got to High

Force and its solitary wayside inn. Here
he dismounted, to have his horse watered ;
for himself, when they asked him what he
would take, he said, 'nothing," and thanked
them. To let his horse stand awhile, he
strolled down the dark, pine-shaded path,
to the grand waterfall, and stood beside
the river, watching dreamily the thundering
surf, snowy, dazzling, brilliant in the
brilliant sunshine. He stooped, took
water in the hollow of his hand, and drank
it. This he did several times, but without
a change in the calm serenity of his
expression ; and then he returned to the
inn and again mounted his horse.

Riding on, he proceeded till nothing
but pathless moors surrounded him, stretching
lonely and bewildering in all directions.
He was on the borders of Westmoreland,
and now the westering sun and the
lengthening shadows told him that it was
time to be returning. Tranquil and quiet
as ever, he did turn, and guided his tired

horse towards Bradstane. It was dark
when he got in, and he trod softly, as if
he imagined there might be some one ill
or dead in the house. He only laid his
hat aside, but did not put off his riding-coat,
before he went, still in this quiet,
gentle way, into the library, where he
found his father alone.

'* Where on earth have you been ? " he
said fretfully. " Michael has never been
i:iear all day, and there I was, left with
Coningsby, to give all my instructions
alone."

'' Mr. Coningsby would hardly have
been likely to take his instructions from
me," said Gilbert, with his slight smile.
*' Then, you have got it done ? "

Yes, it is done. Rowntree and Ransom
" (his servant) " witnessed it. But I
want no more of such efforts. It has
worn me out. . . . However, it is some
satisfaction to think that things are settled
as they should be."

During this speech, Gilbert had stood
with his foot on the fender, and his hand
held up as if to shield his face from the
glow of the fire. He now observed softly 

'' I will go and change my things, and
be with you in a few minutes."

When he was alone in his bedroom, he
took out his handkerchief and passed it
across his forehead.

'' Disofustinof ! How overheated one sets
with a honos ride ! " he muttered to himself.

The hall bell sounded through the house.
Self-possessed Gilbert gave a great start,
and became suddenly paler than usual.

Pshaw ! " he uttered aloud, the next
moment ; " he has his key, of course."

But it seemed to take him some time to
change his riding-clothes for the garments
he usually wore in an evening. Just
before he went downstairs, he seated himself
on a chair at his bedside, and drew a
long breath.

sewell, it had to be," he whispered to

himself. " There was nothing else for it.
And he is so dense  so dense. One must
do the best. It was for the best."

Then, as if feeling himself guilty of
some weakness, he drew himself together
with a little shake, composed his countenance,
and went downstairs. Nothing was
said by father or son relative to either the
ride taken by the one, or the business
accomplished by the other. Quite late,
Otho Askam called to smoke a pipe and
have a chat about the mills and other
topics. And Gilbert slept quite soundly
that night.

This was May. During the summer
Mr. Langstroth became somewhat stronger,
and things went on in their usual course
until November.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FIRSTFRUITS OF THE WISDOM OF
GILBERT.

One afternoon, about the middle of November,
Gilbert, looking in at the " barracks,"
said to Michael 

I wish you'd give a little particular
attention to my father. It strikes me that
he Is not so well as he ought to be, or
rather, that he's worse than usual. I
wonder If Rowntree would mind looklno-
In, as well ? "

Of course, we will come. Now, do
you mean ? I'll go at once, and the doctor
at night."

He went across to his father's house and
saw him. Mr. Langstroth was certainly

very weak and unwell, but not, it seemed
to Michael, seriously so. He left directions
for him to be kept very quiet, and
returned to his dwelling, promising that he
and Doctor Rowntree would both look in
during the evening.

As they sat at dinner, a messenger
came hurriedly from the Red Gables, summoning
them to go at once to Mr. Lang-troth,
who was very ill. In a very few
moments they were in the house, but only
to find that all was over, and that Gilbert,
white and haggard-looking, was standing
by the chair in which their father lay, lifeless.
Gilbert said they had risen from
table, and he had supported his father to
his chair, into which he had sunk, dead.
The young man's pallor and tremulousness
were fully accounted for to Michael, by
the fact of the sudden blank which must
now come in his life, after his years of
devoted attention to his father, who had
thus so suddenly departed ; and by every

silent sign that he knew how to give, he
sought to assure Gilbert of the sympathy
and fellow-feeling he experienced.

There was a hush and solemnity in both
the houses during the few days which
elapsed between Mr. Langstroth's death
and his burial.

There was but a small following to
attend him to his grave. Roger Camm
and Dr. Rowntree formed a part of it, and
there was Miss Strangforth's carriage, and
several others sent by neighbours and
friends, Otho Askam's brougham amongst
them.

When it was over, the two brothers,
with Dr. Rowntree and Mr. Coningsby,
returned to the Red Gables. It was
decided that it would be best to, as the
doctor said, " o-Qt through with the business
of the will," then and there, so that
their minds might be free for other
things.

It was one o'clock in the afternoon of

a dank, chill November day, when they
parted ; and Roger Camm, with an inclination
of the head to Michael, to show that
he was with him in spirit, if not in the
flesh, went to the doctor's house, intending
there to wait lunch for him.

He went into the study, where Michael
and the doctor kept their professional
library, and where odd volumes of Roger s
had got mixed up with treatises on medicine
and surgery. He picked up a volume
at haphazard, and gazed at the tide of it.
Principles of Biology," it ran  '' Principles
of Biology "  and though he believed
he was trying to read it, he was really
very busy thinking thoughts  thinking of
Michael ; wondering how far his father's
affairs were retrieved, and if at last there
were some prospect of his happiness being
accomplished.

'' Since he is so wrapped up in that
insipid girl, and since she has not done
him the kindness to throw him over before

now," Roger thought, In the pride of his
own wisdom, " there's no chance of It
now, since his fathers death must make
him more prosperous In a worldly point
of view. She'll have him, sure enough.
They will be married, and he  will live to
repent It."

Insensibly, the book dropped, and his
thoughts turned to the days of long ago ;
to his comrades and their lives, and his
life, and to their play In the Thorsgarth
garden. In summer sunshine.

Queer, very queer," he reflected, '' that
we two, who were companions then, should
be chums now. I wonder what Michael
will turn out; how he will win his spurs ;
what will give him the stamp of finished
manhood ? for he's a dreamer yet, though
he does not know It."

Then he began to think that the doctor
was lone a-comin':, and that If he did not
appear soon, he, Roger, would have to eat
his lunch alone, and be off to his work.

The door opened. The doctor's parlour-maid
stood there.

''If you please, sir, they've sent from
Mr. Langstroth's. Mr. Michael begs you
will step across at once."

Roger sprang to his feet with a vague
wonder and foreboding in his mind. He
soon measured the distance between the
doctor's house and the Red Gables. He
found the door open and a servant waiting.

'* This way, sir. They are in the
library."

In another moment Roger found himself
in the well-known room, with the three
familiar figures assembled there.

Mr. Coningsby, the lawyer, who had
been present, was gone. Roger looked
from one to the other of his old friends,
all so silent. It was very strange, and,
as he dimly felt, there was something
potent, thrilling, and portentous in that
silence. He looked last at Michael  why,
he knew not  and when his eyes fell upon

him, he could scarcely restrain a start and
an exclamation. Michael had always been
noted for being so easy-going, so slow
in judging others, so full of sweet-tempered
charity. He did not look very much at
peace with himself or the world just now.
He was the first to speak.

'' I sent for you, Roger," he began, and
his voice was very quiet, and very incisive.
Roger hardly recognized it. " I want you
to hear something I have to say. You are
my friend ; and a friend, as we all know,
ticket closer than a brother."

'' Can this be Michael ? " Roger thought,
in his bewilderment. " I fancied no one
but Gilbert could sneer in that way."

Roger had yet to learn that there is no
sneer so bitter as that which is called forth
by intense suffering, or a very keen sense
of injustice. He thought all sneers were
the products of a cynical frame of mind, or,
with some persons, constitutional. But,
thinking that such a tone was more like

Gilbert than Michael, he was, as it were,
suddenly reminded of Gilbert's existence,
and he glanced at him. He was seated
in a corner of the old sofa, which had
always been his favourite position ; his
arms were folded, his face pale, and apparently
absolutely devoid of expression.
Dr. Rowntree, though silent, was evidently
in a state of the most cruel mental perturbation,
and looked in a helpless way
from one brother to the other,

'' Yes, Michael," said Roger, at last. " I
am ready, either to do or to let alone,
as you wish. What is it ? "

'' Boys ! " exclaimed the little doctor,
unable to contain himself any longer,
before it goes any further, listen to me.
Before you quarrel, before you dispute,
for Heaven's sake consider! You may
say things, brothers as you are, which can
never be unsaid."

'that is exactly what I mean to do,
sir," said Michael, turning his white face

for a moment, in the doctor's direction.
Roger, loyal to the heart, could not but
think in this moment, that Michael looked
almost cruel. Again he did not understand
that there is no feeling of hate or
of cruelty so strong, and so desolating, as
that called forth by spited or cheated
love and trust.

You may trust me not to dispute," the
young man went on ; "I never do. Hark
to me. Roofed ! " He turned now to Roger ;
and to the latter it seemed as if all
Michael's movements were stiff and
mechanical, and under restraint. *' My
father has died, as you know, and has
left a will, as you also know. He has
left a good deal more money than it was
expected he would  by me, at any rate.
I am his eldest son ; Gilbert his youngest.
I wish you to know how he has disposed
of his property, and to hear what course
I intend to pursue, in consequence of that
disposition. Here is the will. I won't

trouble you with much of it, but I must
ask you to listen to this passage."

From the will, it appeared that the
Langstroth estates were now free of
encumbrance. The income derived from
what remained to them of it was all
required, and would be for some few years,
to pay off the remaining interest on some
debts, of which the capital was already
cleared away. Over and above, there was
a clear sum of six thousand pounds, gained
about a year ago by the advantageous sale
of two farms and some wood, mentioned in
the will. Of this, four thousand was left to
Gilbert, at his absolute disposal ; three thousand,
as the will stated, as his just half of the
property, and another thousand as a sort
of payment or indemnity for his services
in retrieving the estate, which, without his
care and diligence, would probably have
been rather a debt than an inheritance.
The other two thousand were left in trust
to Gilbert, to be invested and disposed

VOL. I. 12

of for Michael's benefit, and the Incomes
derived therefrom were to be paid to
Michael by his brother; the testator declaring
himself to have the greatest faith
and confidence in the business abilities
of his son Gilbert. The town factories
would pay nothing for a long time to anyone
but Otho Askam, whose money had
found the means of starting them again.
When they should, or if they ever should
begin to pay, their profits were to be
equally divided between Michael and
Gilbert, or, failing them, their heirs. That
is, in plain terms, there was a probability
that some eight or ten years hence,
Michael might begin to receive an income
from " Langstroth's Folly." The house
called the Red Gables, situate within the
township of Bradstane-on-Tees, and all
the furniture, plate, pictures, china, ornaments,
and all other household appendages
whatsoever, save such as might be
personal possessions of Gilbert, were to

go to Michael absolutely, as the eldest
son.

Such was the tenor of the testament,
to which Roger listened breathlessly, as
Michael read them, in a low, quick, clear
voice. When he had finished, he laid the
will on the table again, and Roger, looking
intently at his friend, saw such a
look in his eyes, such agony in the drawn
lines of his mouth, that he went up to
him, and, laying his hand on his shoulder,
asked in a low voice 

Michael, what does it mean ? "

*' It means that my brother is very
clever, and I am a great blockhead. I
am fain to doff before his superior
wisdom."

Gilbert, his arms still folded across his
chest, was looking at there, pale, calm, and
seemingly self-possessed.

Take heed of what you say, Michael,"
he said quietly. "Abuse, even from "

I am going to do nothing but praise

and congratulate you on your great
wisdom and astuteness," replied Michael,
flashing a look of such trenchant contempt
towards his brother, that Gilbert's
own eyes sank before it. It was a new
sensation for him to find himself despised
by the man for whose simplicity he had
always entertained such a finely ironical
contempt.

'' Only," resumed Michael, speaking so
clearly that not a word could be lost of
what he said, " it is a pity my father
did not appreciate you better. He should
have left you the other two thousand out
and out. Unless you take pity on it, it
will be useless, for I shall never touch it."

Now, Michael, Michael, madman !
Beware what you say ! " cried the little
doctor, stamping about, as middle-age
does when cash is blasphemed or lightly
spoken of.

Michael, having patiently waited till this
apostrophe had been contributed to the

conversation, but who heeded it not at all,
suddenly bent towards Gilbert, fixed his
burning eyes upon him, and said, in a
lower voice, but one which was still distinctly
audible to them all 

Two thousand, Gilbert ; it is an odd
coincidence. Do you remember my saying
to you long ago, that if I'd two
thousand to start with I would be married
tomorrow  eh ? "

Gilbert neither moved nor raised his
head.

'* I know you thought that a very
imprudent way of spending two thousand
pounds. It seems my father must have
held the same opinion, and between you,
you have arranged that I should do
nothing mischievous."

Here he raised himself up again, and,
turning to the others, went on 

'' I want you all to understand this.
That which I am not trusted to handle
for myself; that which is confided by my

father to my younger brother to take care
of, lest I should misuse it  left so by my
own father, to whom I have been a
dutiful and honourable son,  I take God
to witness it;  that is not for me at all.
I refuse to touch it. You all hear what
I say ? "

There was a low murmur from the
doctor and Roger. Michael went on 

That being the case, it seems that
what I have left, to call my own, is my
fathers house  the house in which we
were both born and brought up, where
we lived as brothers, without an unbrotherly
thought  on my part, at least ;
and the house where, when I went out
into the world to relieve the burden which
had fallen on our affairs, I left you in my
place, to tend my father; to watch overall
our interests ; to deal justly by me as
well as by yourself "

There was a very long pause. It
seemed as if Michael, steady though his

voice had remained, were unable to finish
the utterance of the thoughts that were
in his mind. The others were silent, and
Gilbert looked doggedly downwards.

That house, as I say, is now all I
have, but it is my own, and you have
just given in the account of your stewardship,"
went on Michael, his lips white
and his eyes hard, so that Roger felt a
kind of fear of him. " There it is ! "
He laid his hand upon the will. '' Tome,
it has been a fatal stewardship. It
has robbed me not only of my inheritance,
but of my brother." And he
advanced two or three steps nearer to
Gilbert.

The latter rose ; perhaps he knew what
was to come. Neither of the others dared
to speak. Gilbert once lifted his head
and looked at his brother, but instantly
his face sank again. He was voiceless,
powerless, defenceless. Michael stepped
aside and threw the door open wide.

Being my house," he said, " I order
you to leave it now, this instant. Go ! "

Another pause. Silence still. Michael
stood waiting. Gilbert looked around
him, as if he struggled to speak, but
could not. He saw nothing to cheer him.
Dr. Rowntree with his hands clasped,
his kind face looking the picture of woe ;
Roger Camm frowning and silent. Gilbert
took two steps towards the door.

Michael," he said.

** Go ! " repeated Michael, in a stony
voice.

Gilbert walked slowly out at the door,
into the hall, took his hat, and left the
house. They heard the hall door close
after him, and it was with two of them, at
least, as if the sound struck them like an
actual blow. To turn one's brother out of
doors would generally be done figuratively
morally, perhaps. Michael had done it
literally, and with a resistless determination
and strength of will which none of them

had credited him with. His hour had
come at last, and the real stuff of which he
was made, good or bad, was beginning to
show itself.

After a moment's silence, he turned
again to the others and said 

I won't detain you any longer. I wish
I could have spared you such a scene, but
as my two nearest friends, I wished you to
be under no mistake as to what I was
going to do. And now I should like to
be alone for awhile."

Roger heaved a deep sigh, and said
nothing, but moved towards the door.
The doctor, who had a tender heart, and
down whose cheeks the tears were running,
fell back into old Quaker phraseology,
as he almost sobbed out 

** Michael, my poor, poor lad, you'll
come and sleep in thy own bed to-night,
at my house, won't thou ? "

Yes, I will, doctor," replied Michael
slowly ; and they left him alone.

CHAPTER IX.

THE GODDESS OF THE TENDER FEET.

'' The goddess Calamity is delicate, and
. . her feet are tender. Her feet are
soft, he says, for she treads not upon the
ground, but makes her path upon the
heads of men."

These words, or something like them,
were floating dimly in Roger Camm's
mind, as he walked with Dr. Rowntree
across the square to the house on the
opposite side. His heart was full to
bursting. Loving Michael as he did,
better than any one in the world, he felt to
the full the meaning of the summons he
had received, to hear his friend's decision.
It is not for a light thing that a man turns

out of doors the brother in whom he has
all his life felt unqualified trust and confidence
; it is not a casual acquaintance
whom he summons to witness the deed,
and so Roger felt. But while he quite
appreciated this accident of the thing, the
thing itself bewildered him even yet. It
was one of those bizarre, jarring circumstances
which come upon one like a clap
of thunder from a cloudless sky, which one
fails to take in properly on the first blush
of them. Even yet, Roger could not feel
at home with the recollection of Michael
standing erect and stiff, the spirit of anger
flaming from his eyes, deaf to every remonstrance,
and casting scornful eyes
upon Gilbert's pitiful condition.

Neither he nor the doctor spoke till
they were in the house again. It seemed
that they had been but a short time away,
for there was everything as Roger had left
it, and the luncheon-table set for them.
This bald reality and commonplace of

everyday life did not seem to put things
into any more comprehensible shape ; if
possible, they heightened the strangeness
and sadness of the situation. But standing
together there, they (to use the vernacular)
found their tongues." Dr. Rowntree sat
down in his easy-chair, and wiped his eyes
with a large red bandana handkerchief,
blew his nose violently, and said, In a voice
which was yet full of tears 

'' Who would ha' thought it, Roger ?
who would ha' thought it ? "

*' Well," said Roger, propping his broad
back against the mantelpiece, and staring
down at his boots, '' not I, for one, and
I think there will be precious few to jerk
their heads and say, * I told you so,' this
time. And yet I don't feel half so much
surprised as enraged, now that It Is all
out."

He should not have flung away what
was left him in that way," complained Dr.
Rowntree. "He should have been cool."

"Cool, doctor! Now, come! would
you have been cool ? Were you cool, as
it was ? "

** No, no, I know. But he ought to
have kept cool. He should have carried
it before a court of justice. They do set
aside wills sometimes, that are flagrantly
unjust ; and I think they would, at any rate,
have handed him over that two thousand
to do as he liked with. I'm sure they
would ; it stands to reason. An elder son,
with not a penny of cash left him, except,
as you may say, at the discretion of his
younger brother  monstrous, monstrous !
As if he had been a spendthrift, or a ne'er-do-weel
! "

If it were twenty thousand, it would
make no difference," said Roger slowly,
for he had been working the thing out in
his mind. " I can see where it is. Do
you suppose Michael could have got beside
himself in that way, just because he
was disappointed of money that he had

expected ? He thinks too little of it for
that. If every penny had been left at his
own disposal, I have very little doubt he
would have left it entirely in Gilbert's
hands, for he thought all the world of his
business capacities. It is the treachery
the money. When I think how Gilbert

has sneaked  sneaked, all through it "

Roger stamped his foot. *' It shows you
ought never to trust any one, least of all
your nearest relations. Where Michael
trusts, he trusts with his whole heart, justin
the same way that he loves. He trusted
Gilbert and he trusted his father, and they
have cheated and duped him like a couple
of blackness. I hope Master Gilbert's
greed will avenge itself on his own head,
and I wish a pest upon every penny of his
ill-gotten inheritance. It isn't the money
only that Michael has lost ; it's his faith
and his trust : it is his brother, that's what
it is. That isn't a loss you get over in a
moment, even if your brother dies ; and

Michael has lost Gilbert in a worse way
than if he had been burying him to-day
beside their father. That's about it. He
will never get over it, to be the same
again."

*' I'm afraid not  I'm afraid not."
''He would not be what he is if he
could," said Roger.

How can one console him ? "
Nohow. It isn't to be done."
What can I say to him, my poor lad ? "
Nothing, if you'll believe me. I can
tell you I shall not speak of it. There are
things no one ought to meddle with,
unless they are opened out to one. I
know why he sent for me  it was in order
that he might not have to enter into the
whole business again. He wanted it done
with, sealed up, that I might know he had
no brother any more. You can't very well
talk to a man of a relation he hasn't got,
and I shall keep my mouth shut."

"I will try," said Dr. Rowntree ; "but

if I see him looking very miserable, I don't
think I can keep quiet."

You won't see Michael looking miserable,
I can tell you that. My time is up,"
added Roger, looking at his watch. '' I
must go back to my work."

He left the house, with the thought just
come into his mind, " After all, I shall have
to speak to him. I don't see how I can
stay in this shop any longer, after the
treatment he has had."

He turned into the office, but it was
with difficulty that he succeeded in giving
any attention to his work ; for in his mind's
eye he had the Image of Michael, seated
alone in his desolation in that wretched
room, where the wretched scene of the
morning had taken place. It seemed to
Roger that the worst blow had befallen
Michael which by any possibility could
overtake him  which idea serves sweetly
to illustrate his own extreme Ignorance of
life, and of the protean forms which calamity

and misfortune can assume ; also of the
marvellously elastic nature of the human
creature, and of that part of it, be it brain,
or heart, or soul, or whatsoever it may in
reality be, which suffers.

Roger Camm, repeating to himself the
half-forgotten Greek of his quotation about
the goddess Calamity, never dreamed fora
moment but that she had stayed her
course. Surely her feet had pressed with
sufficient weight upon the head which she
had selected as her standpoint ! Could his
spiritual eye have pierced that veil, filmy,
and yet dense, which envelops us as we
move to and fro on this earth, and seen
the guiding powers about Michael, he
would have perceived still hovering amongst
them a dark form with a woebegone
countenance  her of the tender feet yet.

He returned to Dr. Rowntree's from his
work, and, having no heart to amuse himself
in any way outside, sat with a book,
to which he gave but a divided attention,
VOL. I. 13

wondering the while whether Michael
would go to Magdalen that night, or wait
till the morrow ; and wondering likewise
whether she would be of any use to him
in the crisis.

*' Gilbert would be a better spec, for her
now," said Roger bitterly, within himself.
Only, not to blacken him more than is
absolutely necessary, he never had the
faintest fancy for her. In fact, I don't
believe he would take her with fifty thousand
down."

Towards ten o'clock Michael came in,
greeted them both with great composure,
took his accustomed chair, lighted his pipe,
and made some few observations to them
before they all went to bed. He made not
the slightest allusion to what had taken
place in the morning, and Roger did not
choose or wish to break upon this reserve :
the lite doctor did not dare. He found,
what he had never suspected before, that
his adopted son had the power of holding

him at arm's length, and while he could
not but admire what seemed to him
Michael's strength and self-possession, he
was not quite happy at finding it thus, as it
were, used against himself. This dry-eyed
composure, this something indescribable invoice
and glance, were, thought the doctor,
magnificent, but they did not invite to the
sentimental reflections of which he was
longing to disburden himself.

They separated at their usual hour, and
no one complained the next morning of
not having slept, though under Michael's
eyes there were ominous purple rings
which told of his having enjoyed something
less than perfect repose.

Roger got a few words alone with him
before breakfast.

Michael, I want to speak to you. After
what has happened, I don't see how I can
stay on at the factories. I don't fancy
being mixed up with those two, when you
are my friend."

Michael paused a moment. '' I understand
what you mean," said he. " You are
loyal, Roger, at any rate. But there is
no need for you to feel like that. It is
entirely between him and me, and not
another soul in the world, if you know
what I mean. I know what you feel, and
I believe I should feel the same in your
place ; but can you make a sacrifice for my
sake?"

I dare say I could, if I knew what it
was."

"It is, just to remain where you are. I
don't want any one to notice it for me.
I can notice things for myself  such things
as I wish noticing."

Oh, that settles the matter, of course,"
said Roger. '' I shall stay  unless they
sack me."

At that moment a note was brought to
Michael. He opened and read it very
quickly, and then tossed it across to Roger.

'' Read it," said he. " You must see me

through each stage of this, so that we need
never have to mention it to each other
ao-ain."

Roger read it. It was from Gilbert, and
the paper on which it was written was
stamped, " Thorsgarth, Bradstane-upon-
Tees."

'' There are two precious rascals together
under the same roof," was Roger's
unspoken comment before he began to
read.

But his face changed as he perused the
lines. The note was short, but strong in
its very baldness and simplicity ; as unlike
Gilbert's ordinary soft politeness as the
inflexible decisiveness of Michael in the
same matter had been unlike his usual
conduct.

Gilbert asked Michael for an interview.
'* Though you have treated me like a dog,"
he said, " I will show you things so that
they shall be right, if you will see me. I
can make it straight, too, though you do

not think so." After a few more phrases
of a similar kind, he concluded  " Do not
be hasty in your reply. Think well before
you refuse what I ask, for if you do, I
shall never ask again. I can make it right,
and the whole future of both of us may
depend upon your answer."

Roger read this twice over to himself,
and looked at Michael, who had gone to
his desk and was writing quickly. As
soon as he had finished, he came again to
Roger and handed him his letter, which
ran 

** I have received your note, and decline
to see you or hold any communications
with you. Your possessions are, I believe,
at the Red Gables. I shall not be there
tomorrow, and you will be at liberty to
fetch away what you choose of your belongings.
After that you cannot be
admitted there.

Michael Langstroth."

Michael," said Roger, holding both
these documents in his hand, and speaking
very earnestly, "forgive me for even
seeming to meddle with your affairs.
Gilbert has a meaning under that note of
his. Won't you think twice before you
send that answer to him ? "

I did all the thinking about him that I
shall ever give to him again, yesterday,"
said Michael trenchantly. " Do you suppose
I spent all yesterday shut up in that
room without coming to some definite
conclusions upon matters in general and in
particular ? That is the answer I mean
him to have, and that is the answer I shall
send him".

Roger had been far more struck than he
would have cared to confess, with Gilbert's
appeal. He felt as if confessing it would
impeach his loyalty to his friend, and he
was all Michael's  heart and soul. But
he was a man with a reasonable head too,
and he could not thrust out the feeling,

though he was angry with himself for
having it, that Michael was unjust, even
though the object of his injustice were so
great a sinner as Gilbert. Yesterday,
Roger had thought no punishment could
be terrible enough for Gilbert and his
sneaking ; " now the punishment was
beginning, and he found himself almost
ready to plead for mercy for the criminal.

Michael," he said, in a low voice, '' have
you the right to do it ? "

'* Yes, I have," replied Michael, his face
growing terribly hard and set again.
'* Nothing that I do to him now can be
wrong."

Roger paused, looking at his friend. In
his mind were the words, '' until seventy
times seven," but he had not the courage
to utter them. In the abstract, and as a
Christian precept and command, doubtless
they were right, but Michael was his
friend ; Michael had been so fearfully, so
stupendously wronged and cheated, and

by his own brother. Was he to plead
Gilbert's cause to Michael ? The idea
seemed monstrous. Make it right ? What
could make right or alter that which he
had done, cunningly and secretly, against
the brother who had trusted him ? " Put
yourself in his place  in Michael's place,"
said Roger to himself. *' Michael must
be right. And yet  what a cursed thing
to have reared its head between two
brothers ! "

*' You will do what you  please " (he
was going to have said, " what you think
right," but he instinctively felt that that
would not have been the true expression).
*' I know I would give my right hand if
it could be different."

I know you would, but it never can
and never will," said Michael, folding and
sealing his letter ; and within a quarter of
an hour it was on its way to Thorsgarth.

Are you going far to-day ? " the doctor
asked Michael at breakfast. He would

have given a good deal If the young man
would have professed himself unable to
stir, and so would have given him an opening
for sympathy and condolence. But
the young man did nothing of the kind.

Yes," he answered at once ; '' a good
way. I shall not be back to lunch. I
shall get that at the Brydges'. Then I
have to eo on to Cotherstone, but I shall
be back to dinner ; and then," he added,
'' I must really try to get to Balder Hall.
It is aoes since I was there."

o

CHAPTER X.

THE PROCESS OF ANNEALING.

Soon after breakfast they separated as was
their wont. Roger and the doctor came
and went as usual, but the November afternoon
had grown to darkness before Michael
returned, looking pale and fagged from his
long ride and hard day s work. Taken
as a whole, the patients in and around
Bradstane were not a very profitable set.
For one rich old lady like Miss Strangforth,
said Dr. Rowntree, lingering on as a
chronic invalid for years  always wanting
attention, and always profoundly grateful
for all that her physicians either did or
failed to do for her, and paying her bills
with a cheque by return of post  for one

treasure like this there were a dozen
farmers' wives and daughters, or sordid,
unlovely poor in Bridge Street, calling upon
the doctor with a frequency and persistency
which they would never have dreamed of
if they had possessed either the means or
the intention of paying him. Others there
were, cottagers, labourers, living at immense
distances over bad roads, and expecting a
great deal of attention in return for very
small fees  anything but a profitable
clientele  and some of these Michael had
been visiting to-day.

He came in, picked up a note which lay
on the hall table waiting for him, which he
looked for as if he expected it  this dark
face lighted for a moment as he took it,
for the handwriting was that of Magdalen
Wynter  put his head in at the library
door, remarking, '' I'm wet through 
change my things  down directly," and
ran upstairs, shutting his bedroom door
after him.

'' What a spirit ! " cried the doctor, enthusiastically.
'' What a spirit he has !
He'll get over it yet."

Better than his brother will, I think,"
said Roger, half to himself; and then,
gazing into the fire, he wondered what
Gilbert was doing, and wished, as he had
caught himself wishing more than once that
day, that Michael could have seen his way
to answer that note of Gilbert's differently.

By-and-by the gong sounded. Roger
and the doctor went into the dining-room.
Michael was still upstairs. The soup had
been served, and he came not.

Go to Mr. Langstroth's door and say
everything will be cold, and we are waiting
for him," said Dr. Rowntree to the
serving-maid, who did as she was told, and
presently returned, speedily followed by
M michael.

Roger gave a sharp glance at him, and
thought he carried his head very high 
higher than usual.

'' Sorry to keep you waiting," he said
with an affected, jaunty air, not in the least
Hke his usual manner. " I quite forgot
how time was going on."

He laughed as he spoke, and said he
was ravenously hungry, but offended the
doctor greatly by scarcely touching what
was set before him.

'' What do you mean by saying you are
ravenous, and then not eating anything ? "
he asked crossly.

Michael laughed a nervous, forced laugh,
and replied 

Oh, I must have thought I was
hungrier than I really am. I can't eat
anything now. These long rides take it
out of a fellow in such a way."

'' Did you have lunch at the Brydges' ? "

Yes. They have quite a lot of people
staying there. That was one reason why
I was so late. After lunch I went with
Tom to the stables to see his new hunter.
It Is a beauty, too."

Roger sat silent, mistaking the unusual
volubility of Michael's speech and excuses.
Michael himself, in the mean time, had gone
off on a new tack, and was describing his
adventures at a farmhouse on the moors,
and the extraordinary symptoms enumerated
by the mistress of it as requiring
his advice. Dr. Rowntree, pleased to see
that Michael was what he called "plucking
up a bit," did not notice anything forced
or unnatural in his manner. Roger's forebodings
grew every moment darker, and he
was thankful when at last they rose from
the table and went Into the library. On
their way thither, however, he happened
to touch Michael's sleeve with his hand,
and found that it was wet.

Why, man ! " exclaimed he, " you said
you were wet through, and you have goton
the identical togs that you came in with.
What an ass you are, Michael !" he added
gently. " Go upstairs and change, right
away, or you won't get to Balder Hall
to-niofht."

I'm not going to Balder Hall  I think
not," said Michael wearily, as he let Roger
push him towards the stairs, up which he
began slowly and aimlessly to climb.

There's something wrong  something
wrong  something wrong," kept ringing
through Roger's mind. " And something
more than I know of."

Michael's room was over the study.
Roger, listening intently, heard him go into
it, move about for a moment, and then all
was quiet. He sat with a book in his
hand, and waited till his suspense grew
almost to agony. At last he could be quiet
no longer. He went upstairs and knocked
softly at Michael's door. There was no
answer. When he had tried once or twice
again, he opened the door and went in.
The candle burned on the dressing-table.
Michael was in a large old easy-chair by
the bedside, his head sunk on his breast,
his eyes closed, and an open letter drooping
from his right hand.

'' Still in those wet clothes," muttered
Roger. " He'll kill himself."

He went up to him, and touched him on
the shoulder. Michael awoke with a start,
and looked confusedly around him.

Roger ! " he said. " I'm so sleepy. I
don't know what's come over me." He
seemed to see the letter he held, and
went on, in an absent way, "Wasn't it
rather too bad of her not to wait till she
had seen me ? So long  it's three years
since I began to wait for her and work
for her. But as soon as she heard the first
whisper  well, I did write and tell her
what I'd done, and said I would go up and
see her to-night, you know  yes, to-night.
But she never waited. She flung me off,"
and he threw out his arms. " She made
haste to do it. She must have been glad
to do it ! There's something in her letter
which says so. See !" He held it out to
Roger. "What a lot of disagreeable
things you've had to do for me lately ! " he

VOL. I. . 4

went on. '' Good Lord ! how tired I
am ! I never was so tired in my life. I
can't imagine the reason of it."

Roger, deferring for a moment his
intention of making Michael go to bed,
stopped to read the letter, which ran : 

My dear Michael,

I received your letter this
morning, and I am sorry to say I cannot
approve of what you have done. Even
before I got it, I had been thinking for
some time about our engagement, and
wondering if it had ever been a wise one.
During these three days that you have
not been here, I have had ample time
to consider the subject. Even if nothing
further had happened, I should have
written as I now do ; but I do not disguise
from you that the manner in which you
have yourself cut off every prospect of
advancement strengthens my resolution.
These things are best done promptly. It
saves pain to all concerned.

*' As there is now evidently no prospect
of our being married within any definite
time, I wish our engagement to cease. I
desire this both on your account and my
own. In addition to the reasons already
stated, I do not think it would be for your
happiness to continue it, and I am quite
sure it would not be for mine. I shall be
glad of a line from you when convenient,
to say that you consent to my proposal ;
and with every wish for your happiness
and prosperity,

'' I remain,
Your sincere friend,

'* Magdalen Wynter."

'' There's a specimen of elegant composition
! " exclaimed Michael, suddenly
sitting upright, and laughing harshly. " It
could not have been more proper if she
had written it at school, and the head
governess had corrected it. What a
blessed thing it is when people know their
own minds, and can command plain

English in which to make them known !
Only it s a pity that they should take three
years to learn what they do want, or whom
they don't want." He gave a disagreeable
little laugh at his own pleasantry, and
then rose. "If you'll go down, Roger, I
will now change these things, and join you
directly. But it's lucky I need not goto
Balder Hall, for I feel more and more
tired every minute."

Take off your things, by all means,"
said Roger gravely ; " but you must not
come down. You must go to bed."

"To bed!" exclaimed Michael contemptuously.
" A man go to bed because
he's had a long ride in the wet and cold,
and finds rather a chilly letter to greet him
on his return ! I am not such an ass."

But as he spoke, strength seemed to
forsake his limbs ; he could not stand anymore,
but sat down again in the chair by
the bedside.

Perhaps Askam is sitting with her

now. I suppose they will be married," he
said, betraying in his sudden weakness
what his secret fear had evidently been.
Perhaps she will keep him straight.
He needs it, and she has a spirit, though
I know Gilbert and my father never

thought so ; and "

Here he began to wander in his talk ;
was shivering and shaking with cold one
moment, burning hot the next. The
thorough drenching which he had got
after leaving the Brydges' and riding for
miles in the teeth of the bitter wind and
rain ; the excited condition of his brain
over Gilbert's treachery; the reception
of Magdalen's letter, with its icy, unyielding
egoism, showing him that all
these years her own advantage was what
she had been thinking of, and that there
was not a spark of love for him in her
dull heart;  these things broke through
even his magnificent health and strength.
He could not shake off the physical chill

any more than he could the mental prostration.
An attack of a tedious, wearing
low fever reduced him to perfect physical
weakness and docility ; but far worse than
the fever was the accompanying mental
gloom, the result of the shock to the
nervous system. The young man, shut up
in his room, too weak in body to move
and shake off his demon visitant, went
through all the horrors of a complete
nervous break down, and made intimate
acquaintance with all its attendant crew
of ghastly shades  those pallid ghosts
which assemble and gibber and mouth at
us when we have so imposed upon those
hard-worked servants, nerves and brain,
as to have rendered them for the time
powerless to answer to our imperious
demands. Exhausted, they sink down,
and say to us, " We can no more," and then
we are at the mercy of every shadow,
every whisper, every vain imagining and
thought of horror.

Michael Langstroth, with his superb
constitution and youth and temperance
to back him, and with the devoted nursin<'-
of two such friends as Roger and the
doctor, was in the course of a few weeks
restored to comparative strength. Gradually
the shade and ghosts, the bats and
owls that haunt the dark places of the
human mind, retired before gathering
physical strength. Things were gone
that could never be restored  hopes, joys,
faiths, enthusiasms ; things which had
once seemed all-important, appeared now
almost too insignificant for notice. Under
Roger's eyes was the process accomplished
which in his blindness he had
long ago wished for his friend. He was
made into a man : going into the valley
of the shadow a youth, for all his six
and twenty years, his bone, and his muscle,
and his brain ; coming out of it alive, sane,
whole, if weak, but stripped of every superfluous
hope, confidence, or youthfulness.

It was November when he went, to his
room that night ; it was the very end of
December when he came out of it, a
hollow-eyed spectre enough. And it was
a month later still when Dr. Rowntree
carried him down to Hastings one day,
returning himself the next, and leaving
his adopted son there to recruit.

So ended Michael Langstroth's youth,
as a tale that is told.

CHAPTER XL

OTHO'S Letter-bag.

A November morning, five years later.
The sky gray and brooding, the trees still
and leafless. Everything outside betokened
the drear season of the year, and
even the trimly kept lawns of Thorsgarth
could not give brightness to this mood of
Nature and the time o' day.

Within, in a small room which he
generally used for breakfasting, Otho
Askam stood on the hearth rug, with his
burly back turned towards a large fire.
A letter was in his hand, to which he
seemed to pay more attention than it was
usually his habit to give to his correspondence,

for he turned It about, and
perused it often. What are the changes
which five years may have wrought in
his traits, or how many of them have
become strengthened and accentuated
during that time ?

He would seem, outwardly considered,
to have gained something, both in breadth
and solidity, without having in any way
weakened or deteriorated. The lines
were as sturdy, as burly as before. The
expression of his countenance was distinctly
imperious, even more imperious
than of yore. As he stood there, the
letter in one hand, the other impatiently
smoothing the hair on his upper lip  a
dark line only, which seemed to accentuate
the sullenness of his face, without hiding
or softening a single harsh trait or feature
as he stood there his countenance was a
dangerous-looking one ; the expression or
atmosphere which radiated from the man
was not that of sincerity. In repose he

had the old fierceness of expression  whatever
mental or moral change might have
taken place, that old look remained ; and
when he raised his dark eyes and lifted
his head, there was the same breathless,
hunted, or hunting look about him, as in
the days of his very young-manhood there
had been.

He was alone, and had just finished
breakfast. At his feet sat a dignified
Skye terrier, somewhat advanced in years,
and with the self-conscious aspect of a
doe which has Iouq- been made much of
by human beings, so that at last it has
come to feel convinced that all their
actions, words, and movements have some
reference to it and its doings. It gazed
up into Otho's face and watched his
gestures, and when he spoke to it, it
seemed pleased. Animals, even if they
have that keen discernment as to the
virtue or vice of the beings by whom they
are surrounded, with which some persons

credit them, can conceal their likes and
dislikes, for their own purposes, quite as
cleverly as the men and women they live
with  at least, sophisticated and humanized
dogs, like this highly educated Pounder,
can.

Looking out of the window, one saw
the drear season of the year plainly
written upon the outward aspect of
things. November, sad November, but
the November of the country, and not
of the town. In southern places, and
more favoured spots, trees might still be
covered with fiery autumn tints ; but here
every leaf had dropped, and upon the
black and sodden-looking boughs and
twigs hung a damp, clammy dew, and
the grass was hoar and gray with the
same. The sky was leaden ; not a branch
stirred. From here one could see where
the ground sloped towards the river, but
one could not see the stream itself. The
room was warm ; the house was quiet ;

the master was vexed  so much was
plainly to be read on his face. And so
much was audible from his lips too, ashe
ejaculated in a wrathful tone 

Beastly folly  and a beastly nuisance,
too ! "

And the cause of his vexation, the letter
he held in his hand. It is easy to read
over his shoulder, and follow the lines, ashe
peruses it a third time, with the result,
apparently, of increasing his first exasperation.


Brinswell, L-

Dear Otho,

'' It is a very long time since you
wrote to me,  longer than usual. As for
your ever coming to see me, I have long
ago given up that expectation as a wild
delusion. Are you ' busy ' ? Country
gentlemen usually are, from what I hear ;
and from what I've seen I should say
they work very hard to make believe they

have more to do than they know how to
manage.

I wonder if you have reached that I
was twenty-two on my last birthday ?
I don't suppose you have ever given a
thought to the subject. At least, I missed
your usual kind remembrance of me, on
the occasion." [''What the dickens does
she mean ? I've never been in the habit
of sending her birthday presents ! "]

"Well, it is of no use wasting words
over things. I wish to explain my situation
and intentions to you. Since Aunt
Emily's death, six months ago. Uncle
Robert has been quite broken up, and he
doesn't seem to get any better. It is a
fearful loss to him. No one knew  of the
world at large, I mean  how much they
Averse bound up in each other, and how
fearfully he misses her. After trying
everything in the way of staying at home
and keeping quiet, the doctors have
advised a long voyage and a complete

o

change. It has been decided to close
Brinswell for a year at least, and he and
Paul will set out on their travels in a
week or two. I think they will visit
Australia first, as they seem to think the
long voyage will do him good, and they
talk about India and America before they
return  medicine for a troubled mind.
Poor Uncle Robert ! He agrees to all,
and says he knows he is morbid. It seems
to be thought very morbid nowadays if
you have a grief that's past the healing
for six months, even though it be your
dearest in the whole world that has gone
from you.

I am not going with Uncle Robert and
Paul. If it had been a shorter journey, I
might have done so. I should have liked
immensely to go to America, for instance.
But this is different. Paul, of course, goes
with him, because it would be outrageous
to think of his o-oino;- alone ; but the doctor,
and Paul too, say he should not be surrounded

by too many of his own family,
as the object is entire change. They both
think it better for me not to go ; and I
shall do as they think fit. It is very sad
every way.

'every sad, It Is  so sad that I feel
myself a little heartless, because I can't
help being rather glad that I shall leave
here, and at last make acquaintance with
my own home and my own brother. You
do not know how often I have wished todo
so. I am glad I shall see my birthplace
and my north-country home ; very
glad I shall see you. And will not you
say you will be glad to see me, dear Otho ?
It Is years since I have seen you, and
it seems unnatural that it should be so.
Will you come down and fetch me, or are
you too busy ? I propose to leave here
a week from to-day. Let me know
about It.

There Is one other thing that I feel
I must mention to you, which makes me

very glad to be leaving here. About six
months ago, Mr. Mowbray  you know, he
is the rector of the next parish ; the Hon.
and Rev. Percy Mowbray  proposed tome.
Poor Aunt Emily was very anxious
for me to marry him, but it was a sheer,

utter impossibility. Poor Aunt E !

Mr. Mowbray is rich, I believe, and of
very good family, but I have never liked
him, and I could not think of it for a
moment. It was very painful to me to
find how annoyed she was with me, even
to the last. And of course Mr. Mowbray
ceased to visit here, though I had to meet
him sometimes. Altogether, it will be a
great relief to me in every way, to get to
Bradstane for a time. Now you are acquainted
with all my reasons for wishing
to come to you, and with my plans too,
for the present. Send me a line soon,
and believe me,

'' Your affectionate Sister,

Eleanor Askam."

VOL. I. 15

Otho flung the letter upon the table
with temper.

'' Why the d  1 could not she marry the
fellow ? " he muttered angrily, looking
darkly at Pounder, who slightly moved his
tail and elevated his ears with a sigh, as
if he too wondered why  why she could
not have married the fellow.

*' What could she wish for more ? A
girl in her position ought to take the first
opportunity that offers  good, of course 
of settling herself in life. And I'm sure
old Aunt Emily knew what she was about.
No one keener on family and money in
the world. If she wanted the match so
badly, I'll go bail it was a good one. Of
course she must marry  girls like her
always must marry  and of course she
can't go and marry a nobody. What a
fool she must be ! One would think she
was not all there. Not that I should
think the parson and I should have hit
it off very well as brothers-in-law." He

gave a short little laugh. " A thundering
mistake, that will," he went on within himself.
" Such wills have no business to be
made."

This reflection referred to a clause in
his fathers will, providing that Otho's
sister, so long as he and she both remained
unmarried, was entitled to a home at
Thorsgarth whenever she chose to inhabit
it. In the event of his marriage, there
remained for her the Dower House, which
indeed was hers for her life if she remained
unmarried  an old stone house
in the square, not far from the Red
Gables.'

I can't stop it, I suppose. It is a
beastly nuisance, if ever there was one.
As for going to fetch her, I shall do no
such thing. Go nearly three hundred
miles to fetch back some one I don't
want ? Not I ! . And what can I do
with her when I get her here ? Good
Lord ! why must women be so stupid ?

Such sentimental nonsense ! Because I
am her brother  bah ! There's that whey-faced
Paul Stanley, her cousin, looking as
if butter wouldn't melt in his mouth  she's
known him all her life, and he has been
far more of a brother to her than I have."

Otho felt vindictive, realizing what a
grievous thing it was that he should have
to be anybody's brother.

The goings on in this house won't suit
her at all," he reflected, getting more and
more savage the longer he thought about
it. "It has been a bachelor's house all
these years, and it has come to something
if I'm to turn everything topsy-turvy for a
chit of a girl like that. Dogs and horses
and men, and tobacco and wine and cards
what will she do amidst it all ? And
what shall I do with her ? "

He stopped muttering from sheer blankness
of mind on the subject, still fiercely
stroking his upper lip, till after a time a
look of relief, though of very ill-tempered

relief at the best, came over his face, as he
thought 

I suppose I must go and tell Magdalen
about it. She'll be able to suggest something.
I'll go this morning, before I answer
this confounded letter. Whew  w  w ! "

He blew out a kind of ill-tempered sigh,
and Pounder wagged his tail in visible and
exceeding satisfaction.

Then Otho picked up another letter 
short and, as it would seem, sweet, to him
at least, for his countenance relaxed
visibly.

That's well. It will be rather a relief
to have him here if she comes. He knows
what is the right thing to do when there
are petticoats on the premises. I don't."

Then he rang the bell, ordered the
breakfast-things to be taken away, and
said he wanted his horse at eleven.

* 4. * *

Soon after twelve Otho rode up to
Balder Hall, was admitted to Miss Gwyn

ter s boudoir, and proceeded to unfold his
troubles to her.

She had received him with the tranquillity
which had always been the chief
characteristic of her demeanour, and which
seemed neither to have increased nor
diminished with years ; heard all that he
had to say ; and finally, when he pulled
Eleanor's letter out of his pocket, and
said, "See for yourself what she says,"
Magdalen took the letter, opened it deliberately,
and as deliberately read it. She
had never heard much about Otho's sister ;
she was not a woman to talk to men about
their feminine relatives, and Otho had
always been glad to ignore his sisters
existence as much as possible. This suddenly
announced coming of Miss Askam
took Magdalen by surprise. She had no
time to decide whether it would best suit
her views that they should be friends or
enemies, but the letter would possibly give
her a valuable glimpse into the writer's

mind, perhaps even into her character,
written as it was confidentially to an only
brother. As to the question whether it
was honourable or not to read such a
letter, Miss Wynter was exactly the
woman to say, if any one had raised such
a scruple, " Why, Otho gave it me ! " Goto!
she might have been credited with
saying  the keeping one's own integrity
is enough work for any person, without
telling others when they appear to be
losing theirs.

Ah," said she, when she had finished
the letter, '' it is quite obvious why she
wants to come. I did not know your
sister was twenty-two, Otho. Indeed, I
hardly realized that you had a sister."

'* No more did I, till she went and did
this," said Otho resentfully.

'' And you would rather she did not
come r

'' Much rather. But it's no use thinking
of keeping her away. I'm not going to

try. She has got the right to come, by
my father's will, and to stay as long as she
likes, till one of us gets married. I can't
prevent it. The thing is, I don't know
what to do with her when I get her here."

** Well, if you make it very pleasant for
her, of course she'll want to stay."

Otho nodded. " Of course."

*rand if you upset all your habits, and
make great changes on her account, then
she will think you want her to stay, which
would be quite a false impression."

I never thought of that."

*' Of course not ; only it seems such a
very obvious thing. Perhaps that is why
it never occurred to you."

'' Now come, none of your chaff What
I thought of was, that it's simply impossible
for a girl like that to settle down
in a house full of my ways. I must do
something, and what to do I don't know.
I wanted your advice."

And pray what right have you to my

advice ? Why should I interfere between
you and your sister ? I might tell you
it is a just retribution on you for having
alienated yourself systematically from all
such ties. You demand my advice as if
you were a highwayman requiring my
watch and purse."

Otho fidgeted and fumbled, hemmed and
had.

I beg your pardon, Magdalen. I
thought I had the right of having asked
before, and received advice, you know.
And you know I always do come to you
when I am in trouble."

** Oh yes ; I know you do."

'' Would you please tell me what I had
better do ? "

'' Is she good-looking?" asked Magdalen.

'' Oh no ! " said Otho, promptly. " She
has red hair and freckles."

Magdalen glanced at Otho's own dark
traits, and said, '' Now, Otho ! "

'' Upon my soul and honour she has ;

and one of those faces that flush up allover,
without a minute's warning. I never
could see the sense of those faces. She
goes into raptures, you know, and cries
and laughs about things  at least, she did
when I saw her. In fact, though she's
been at college somewhere, and is a complete
blue  reads Homer, and all such
bosh  I thought her a regular baby.
She's got rather a dashing figure," he
added musingly, '' but I swear to you,
Magdalen, she is 7io good-looking."

'' But why, then, does this clergyman
want to marry her ? A man of wealth,
family, and position ? I know quite well
who he is. They are very first-rate people
down there."

Bah ! She has twelve hundred a year
of her own, to do what she likes with.
Whoever heard of a parson, rich or poor,
that could rise above such a thing as
that?" said Otho, with brutality. 'rand
then, all places are not like Bradstane.

They may like blues and freckles down
there . As for his being a man of
wealth, family, and position, you might say
that of me;" and he laughed cynically.
'' She's as good as he is, any day."

'' Yes," said Magdalen gendy. *' She
is your sister." She took up her work.
It seems to me that you are making a
great fuss about nothing. Why make any
difference at all for her ? Thorsgarth is
your house, not hers, though she has the
right to live there, under present circumstances.
It is large enough in all conscience.
Half a dozen families might live
there, and hardly ever meet in the
passages. Give her a sitting-room for
herself, and tell her you are sorry that
your business doesn't leave you time to
see very much of her. It will not be long
before she finds out what a dull place
Bradstane is, and I do not think she will
care to remain in it very long, especially
with such a sympathetic brother."

You are a gem ! " he said admiringly.

And bring her up to see me as soon
as you can, after she comes."

The next afternoon, If it's fine," he
said eagerly.

'' Yes, the next afternoon, if you like.
It will make no difference to me."

Then, as if she had had enough of the
subject, she returned the letter to him,
and asked, '' Is there no meet to-day ? "

No. We got word last night that
there wouldn't be. I'm ofoinor down to
Bradstane just now, to the works. By the
way, I had a letter from Gilbert, too, this
morning. He's coming down for Christmas,
as usual."

Oh, he never fails you."

No ; he never does. I must take
care not to bring him up here while his
brother is on the premises. When does
he come, now ? "

'' I know nothing about it. Sometimes
at one hour, sometimes at another. And

the surest way to bring about a collision is
to take so much care to avoid one. As if
there were not room for Gilbert and him
in the house without dodging in that
stupid way ! "

'' That's all very fine, but accidents will
happen. Suppose they were to meet, after
all, and have a shindy."

A shindy ! Really, Otho, you exasperate
me. In the first place, though you
might, and probably would, make a shindy
under such circumstances, you ought to
know that they would never make one
under any circumstances. And if they
wished to, ever so, would they dare, before
me ?"

Whew  w ! " murmured Otho, under
his breath ; and then aloud 

It seems as if all I said offended you
this morning, Magdalen. However, I'll
be more good-natured than you, and say
thank you for your advice, which I shall
follow. I must be off now."

He got up and stood before her, holding
out his hand. Magdalen surveyed
him in the same cold, direct manner, as
before. It was her old calm, almost
expressionless gaze, but the eyes which
had once been soft and velvety were now
hard. She said good morning to him ina
very indifferent way, and rang the bell.
Otho left the room and went downstairs.

His inventive genius was apparently
not great. He carried out her advice
or instructions, whichever it might have
been, almost to the letter. Without waiting
to go to the works, he first of all called
in at Thorsgarth, and while his horse
waited, sat down and wrote a short letter
to his sister, saying that he would meet
her at the station if she would let him
know by what train to expect her ; that
he was sorry to say he was quite too much
engaged to travel down to the New Forest
to bring her to Thorsgarth. He was afraid
she would find Bradstane insufferably dull

after the social life to which she had been
accustomed. With regard to the parson,
he added, with characteristic want of finish
in his style, he thought it a pity that she
had not seen her way to taking him, as
the match seemed in every way a good
one, but he could hear all about that when
they met, and so he was her affectionate
Brother, Otho Askam.

Then he manor the bell and desired to
see the housekeeper ; and when she
arrived upon the scene, he gave his orders
with the brevity and authority of a great
general, and of course Mrs. Sparkes could
not know that the said orders had originated
with Magdalen Wynter. It was
decided that some south rooms  " the late
Mrs. Askam's suite," said Mrs. Sparkes 
were to be prepared for Eleanor.

Yes," said Otho, with an uneasy feeling
that, since he proposed to leave his
sister considerably to her own society, it
behoved him to look to her personal comfort

as much as possible. " And see that
they are made nice  aired, you know, and
to look  a  bright, and all that."

Oh, sir, the rooms will not need much
doing to them. It's not my system to betaken
by surprise," said Mrs. Sparkes,
with a lofty smile.

'isn't It?" said Otho, with a kind of
brusque facetiousness which had Its effect
in making him popular with some of his
dependents. '' I wish I knew how you
managed to avoid it. This affair  Miss
Askam's coming, has taken me very much
by surprise."

*' Oh, I didn't mean that exactly, sir,"
said Mrs. Sparkes, pleased at the confidence
reposed in her. " There's some
things can't be provided for, but / meant
things in general."

Ah ! well, you'll remember what I said,"
remarked Otho ; and Mrs. Sparkes bowed
herself out.

Then he called for his horse again, and

set off for his long-delayed visit to the
Townend Mills. It need hardly be said
that these calls were wholly perfunctory.
Gilbert, from his London office, gave the
orders, and Roger Camm in his Bradstane
one carried them out. Otho had a pleasure
in calling and looking round now and
then, because he knew how Michael and
Sir Thomas Winthrop hated the Bradstane
Jute Co., Limited, and that Roger Camm
hated him, Otho, the man who had found
the money for it. The conclusion to
which he had come by the time that he
halted in the mill-yard was that, having
settled all things, he had now just one
week of liberty before him, and, putting
his sister from his mind, he resolved to
think no more about her until her arrival
should force him to do so.

VOL I. 16

CHAPTER XII

ELEANOR.

Otho's week of freedom was over. His
sister had come, and on the day following
her arrival, in the afternoon, she rode with
him through Bradstane town towards
Balder Hall.

Any one who could have seen her, even
in the gray and mournful November light,
would have seen a very beautiful young
woman. She was tall, and had an admirable
figure, full of grace and strength.
No feeble development here, nor niggard
traits, nor look of feeble spine or oversensitive
nerves. Whatever the intellect
within that beautiful head, its outward case

was not one to find fault with. Her features
were not very regular ; harmonious,
though, In their very Irregularity. A soft,
ivory-white complexion, as healthy as
many a ruddy one ; and with this complexion,
the red-brown hair and lambent,
tawny eyes which sometimes accompany
It. Her eyebrows were much darker than
either her hair or her eyes ; and she had a
large mouth, but a beautiful one  beautiful
because of its smile in mirth and of its
expression In repose.

There was a vague, indefinite family
likeness between her and the fierce-looking
Otho. Where It lay, in what exactly it
consisted. It would have been impossible
to say, but It was there, though It was
slight, and perhaps more easily to be detected
when they were apart than when
they were together ; that is, seeing one of
them alone, an observer might have
thought, '' How like her brother" or "his
sister ! " And yet, had the other one

appeared, and the faces been compared,
none could have discerned any resemblance.
During the first part of their ride they
were both somewhat silent. She was
looking about her with quick, keen glances,
speaking an observant eye. Otho was
wondering what Magdalen would say to
him, what he could say to her, at a later
time, when he, after his offhand description
of the other day, had to introduce to her
this beautiful creature now riding with him.
Eleanor, while making her observations
on the town and the surroundings, was
also occupied in thinking things over.
It was a fact, she told herself with some
mortification, that Otho and she were
strangers to each other. It seemed that
absence, and long separation, and the influence
of utterly diverse lives and habits
did produce that strangeness, even between
brother and sister. Her Aunt Emily, in
some of their talks, had told her that this
would be the case, and she had said laughingly

that she would defy her brother to
be a stranger to her, or to make a stranger
of her. She had felt very strong ; she
felt very strong now. That was her chief
feeling, when she thought about herself at
all  strength of soul and body, and a
happy confidence that truth is great and
will prevail.

Yet this had not been such a joyful
home-coming as it ought to have been.
In all confidence she had set out to find
the home which she had only twice visited,
each time for a day or two, on some tour
with her guardians, since, at six years of
age, she had been brought away by her
Aunt Emily, a motherless and fatherless
child. Those visits had both been paid
while she was still under fourteen, before
Otho had left college and taken possession.
Otho was six years her senior, and had
pursued his public school course and got
through his college career while she was
yet in the schoolroom and in short frocks.

Occasionally, when he had been in town,
or anywhere near them, he had paid hera
flying visit ; had once, when they had
been in the Highlands, spent a few days
with them, to shoot grouse with his uncle
and cousin Paul. On these occasions he
had told her that she grew a fine girl
(fancying it was a nice kind of thing to say
to a sister, though when he said " fine " he
meant " tall," and had taken so little real
notice of her, that he had spoken in all
good faith when describing her to Magdalen
the week before). And he had
uniformly discouraged the idea of her
coming to live at Thorsgarth (it had never
been seriously broached before), saying,
whenever allusion had been made to such
a thing, " Oh, you will never want a home
there. You will be married before that."

But Eleanor had not married, and she
had come to Thorsgarth to make her home
there.

'' Is this all the town there is, Otho ?''

she asked suddenly, as they emerged from
the street into the open road. '' I've
almost forgotten it. What an odd little,
gray, weather-beaten place it is ! Not a
bit like the south."

Of course not."

'' I feel as if I'd never been here, and I
hardly ever meet any one who has. It
looks bleak here ; that's what I mean."

"Well, it is," said Otho, vexed with such
a persistent talk about the looks of a place.
As if it mattered what Bradstane looked
like ! '' And it's November, too. You
can't expect roses in November."

But I've always had them. There
were Dijon roses growing over the south
walls at Brinswell when I left. You remember
Brinswell, Otho ? "

Yes, I do ; and a dull hole it was."

Not any duller than Thorsgarth, I
should fancy. It was as lovely a place
as ever I saw. We were more there and
less in London the last few years. Of

course I like London, but I never felt dull
at Brinswell. What fruit and flowers !
Of course, things can't grow here as they
did there. The trees look so small and
stunted."

'' Small ! Why, the Bradstane ash trees
are noted all through the country-side."

Well, yes, the ash trees. They are

fine. But, of course, they ought to be."

And she hummed to herself 

Oh, the oak, and the ash, and the bonny ivy tree,
They grow the best at home in the north countries."

*' At home," she added, half to herself.
This is the north countries, and this is my
home, after all. It's a shame I don't know
it better. Wherever you look," she added,
addressing him directly again, " you seem
to see a blue wall in the distance. Otho,
does any one ever get as far as those blue
walls ? " And she pointed towards the
north-west, where Mickle Fell and his
brethren loomed high.

'' Blue walls ! " repeated Otho, embarrassed

by the application of such terms to
the moors, which to him represented so
many acres of good shooting, and those
in another direction staring for another
hobby of his, of which Eleanor was as yet
unaware. " How you talk ! Those that
you are pointing to are the fells on the
Westmoreland border, and those other
ones, to the south, are the Swaledale
moors."

Swaledale moors ? But one can get
over them, I suppose. What is there on
the other side ? "

More moors and more dales. It's
bleak enough there, if you like. There's
some good shooting, though."

I should like to see what there is at
the other side," said Eleanor, her eyes
fixed dreamily on the moors. Then, as
they turned a bend in the road, '' Is it far
to this place you are taking me to ? "

*' Only about another three-quarters of
a mile."

'' This Miss Wynter  Is she a very old
friend of yours ? " asked Eleanor unconsciously.
" I don't ever remember to have
heard you speak of her."

Oh yes, you have," said Otho, with
effrontery ; " but you've very likely forgotten.
She is my only friend  amongst
the women, that is."

'' Ah ! an elderly woman ? "

About my own  well, she's a year or
so older than I am."

Oh ! An invalid, I suppose ? "

Why the What on earth makes

you think she should be an invalid ? "

If she is neither old nor ill, I can't
understand why I am being taken to
see her. What should prevent her from
coming to call upon me, in the usual order
of things ? "

Otho was embarrassed, and annoyed
too. This extremely simple question of
Eleanor's showed him, in a sudden flash,
that Magdalen's behaviour was not exactly

courteous. Stealing a side-glance at his
sister, he realized that when she came
to meet Magdalen, she might consider
the latter had been insolent in her pretensions.
Eleanor, to use his own phrase,
knew what was what, every bit as well as
Magdalen did. Free and natural though
her manner was, he had known enough
of his Aunt Emily to be aware that no
one brought up by her could remain in
ignorance as to any social usages. In his
haste to bring Magdalen's influence into
the field, he had made a mistake, and she
probably did not care whether Eleanor
were offended or no. All he could say to
get himself out of his difficulty was 

'' We're a neighbourly lot here, when we
do happen to be friends. You'll be disappointed
if you expect to find London
etiquette at Bradstane."

I dare say," said she, with a light laugh.
'' I've generally found country etiquette
far more burdensome than etiquette in

London. That was partly what made me
wonder. However, people do get a little
rusty in their manners, I dare say, when
they live in one small set," Eleanor concluded
serenely ; but there was a sparkle
in her eye as she spoke. Her curiosity
as to this Miss Wynter was aroused.

Otho burst into a shoijt laugh, as he
heard this speech, thinking within himself,
'' I'll keep that for Magdalen, and treat
her to it when she's pulling me up, some
day. Upon my word, this girl is enough
to make most others look rusty."

Miss Wynter is your only friend
among the women, you say," pursued
Eleanor in flute-like tones. '' How is
that ? Don't you like the ladies about
here ? "

Otho's expression of countenance, on
hearing this question, was worthy of study.
Eleanor saw it, and averted her face.
She had already accurately gauged one
phase of Otho's character. He was inwardly

perturbed just now. His troubles
were beginning already. Here was this
girl evidently under the impression that
he was hand-in-glove with all the ordinary
society of the place. How was he to
explain to her exactly how things stood
between him and Magdalen Wynter ?
He knew he (jDuld not, in any way that
should seem plausible to one brought up
like her. He was bored at having to
explain at all, and in his vexation took
refuge in some sweeping general statements.


Like the ladies about here ? No,
I don't. And that is one reason why I
knew you would be awfully dull if you
came here. You see, it has suited my
tastes not to go much into the society
here  in fact, hardly at all ; and they have
just begun to understand it at last, and
to let me alone  give over inviting me,
and all that. So you won't find it very
lively. But Magdalen is different. I've

known her ever since I came here. We
were thick at the very first, and have
stuck together ever since, because she's
so reasonable and sensible. As for the
others "  he spoke with solemnity  " they
are one half sharks and the other half
fools. There's no such thing as meeting
a girl, and trying to haje a friendship
with her, before you go any further.
Your sex, my dear, are incapable of
friendship with a man. Either they try
to make him in love with them, and
make his existence miserable, or they
fall in love with him themselves  or think
they do ; it's much of a muchness  and
if he don't respond they say he has
deceived them, or trifled with them, or
something equally absurd. Suppose you
see a nice girl, or a girl that you think
looks nice. Well, you have a head on
your shoulders, and you know she maybe
a shrew, for all her pleasantness, just
as a horse may be a screw, though he

looks all right. You think it worth while
to try and know her a bit better, before
you risk anything. You can't do it.
You may not do it. It is their one object
to get you to marry them without giving
you any opportunity to know anything
about them. You never get to know
their real thoughts about any one thing
on earth. You must run the gauntlet of
their mothers and sisters to get even a
word with them. It isn't fair ; it's deuced
hard. Why are you to show up everything,
and be slanged if you don't do it
all on the square, while they are not to
have any questions asked at all ? The
sisters are bad enough, especially if you
are sweet on a younger one, but the
mothers  oh. Lord ! Those mothers ! If
you do but look at one of their precious
girls, they are down upon you to know
your ' intentions.' I say, a man has a
right to ask questions in his turn  if their
tempers are all right, if they're sound in

wind and limb, and so on. I bolt if I see
one of those mothers within "

He was interrupted by a peal of laughter.
Eleanor had contained herself as long as
she could, but at each higher flight of
Otho's sombre eloquence it had been more
and more difficult to keep her gravity.
Now it was impossible. She gave free
vent to her mirth, and bent to her saddlebow
in her merriment.

Oh, Otho ! " she ejaculated at last,
turning a face quivering with laughter to
him, and eyes dancing behind tears of
amusement. He looked at her in speechless
astonishment, and then by degrees
manacled to take in the fact that she
was lauehino at him  at his solemn and
withering denunciation of the man-traps set
for the unwary in social life. He did not
remember such a thing to have happened
to him before, and he was stunned by the
shock.

' Poor dear Otho ! " she said, between

new bursts of merriment. " What a life
you must have led, with all these women
trying to entrap you ! No wonder you
are reserved and sad ! No wonder you
have retired into private life to avoid the
dangers that beset you on all sides ! I
wonder almost that you dare ride out
alone. And yet, Otho, what a great thing
to be so sought after ! ' '

Otho's face was almost purple, partly
with breathless amazement, partly with
anger. Eleanor, it seemed, did not realize,
or did not care, to what inconvenience he
was put by her presence here at all. She
chaffed and laughed at him. She now put
the crowning point to this offensive conduct
by leaning over towards him, and
asking, with a pretence of looking round
to see that no one was near to look or
listen 

"Otho, did Miss Wynter warn you of
the danger of these harpies by whom you
are surrounded ? Women are always

VOL. I. 17

quick to see through the designs of other
women. How good of her to take care of
you and keep you out of danger ! "

Otho's deep colour grew deeper still.
Shrewdly had Eleanor hit the mark. The
language, the terms of expression, were his
own, native to his genius and redolent of
his mind ; but the substance of his speech
was the substance of scores of conversations
with Magdalen, in which she had
amused him by tearing to pieces the supposed
designs of their neighbours of the
whole country-side.

V/hat bosh ! " he said at last, with
sovereign contempt. *' You'll be saying
next that she had designs herself." A
peculiar smile hovered about his sister's
lips, but she said nothing. *' No, no. It
is quite different with her, as you will see
when you meet her. You can go and
have an hour's chat with her  or two
hours, if you like. She's always pleasant,
always amusing ; no father or mother to

be down on you. And she does not
imagine, even if you were to go and see
her regularly twice a week, that you've got
intentions ; ' and, what is more, she has
none herself. She can be pleasant, and
free, and agreeable, without all the time
being bent upon hooking you. Yes "  the
taciturn Otho waxed enthusiastic  " she is
my friend. I don't care who knows it.
She's the only woman in the neighbourhood
that I call upon."

Had Eleanor been better acquainted
with " the neighbourhood " and its annals,
she might better have appreciated the
honourable distinction conveyed in this
speech.

Dear me ! She ought to be flattered,
I am sure. Is this place of hers a large
one ? "

'' Balder Hall, Magdalen s ? God bless
you, no ! I wish it was. She's a poor
penniless niece of an old bedridden woman.
Miss Martha Strangforth, whom they call

about here * the Immortal,' for they say
she will never die. I dare say Magdalen
wishes it were true, for so long as the old
woman lives the girl has a home and a
position. And old Martha's income dies
with her, and I don't fancy she has saved
much."

'' Girl  she must be a precocious girl,"
said Eleanor sweetly.

Oh, the malice of you women ! " said
Otho, gnashing his teeth with virtuous and
masculine indignation. "When I say 'girl,'
I'm rather stretching a point. She is a
year or so older than I am  about eight
and twenty. And it seems to me that
precious few women under that age are
worth speaking to."

'well, they certainly should be worth
speaking to by the time they are that age,
if ever they intend to be. But if she is
poor and dependent, it seems to me men
ought to be rather careful about going to
see her very often."

*' For fear she should set traps for them,
of course," sneered Otho.

''Oh, not at all. But because other
people are sometimes ill-natured, and a
woman who has her way to make, or who
may have her living to earn some time,
cannot be too careful."

"Oh, come, Eleanor! When you see
her you will understand that one can't
speak of Magdalen Wynter in that way.
No one could imagine her in any inferior
position. It isn't in her to take one."

Isn't it ? Well, it is lucky for her if
she has some power that can defy need
and want of money. I used to help Aunt
Emily with some charitable works that
she was interested in governesses' homes,
and ladies' work societies, and so on ; and
you would have been astonished at the
terrible cases one used to see, and the deplorable
condition of ladies ladies of birth
and beauty, with the most terrible tales of
the straits to which poverty and distress

had driven them. I used to He awake for
hours sometimes, wishing I had the courage
to divide my money into a common fund,
for some of the poorest, and go and Herewith
them on equal terms."

*' You'll come to no good if you let that
sort of nonsense get into your head," said
Otho gruffly. '' But it's useless to talk.
You will understand what I mean when
you see her," he added, feeling that his
sister was not altogether devoid of the
obstinacy which was so salient a feature
in his own character. " She does not care
for the people about here, you know. In
fact, she dislikes them, and makes great
fun of them. And they don't care about
her ; she's too handsome for them."

Eleanor made no answer to this, and
they rode on in silence for a little time.
Miss Askam did not feel 'drawn" to
Magdalen by Otho's description of his
friend. Indeed, it had the very natural
effect of putting her mind into a defensive

attitude with regard to the other woman.
Without being any stickler for forms, she
could not understand why Miss Wynter
had not called upon her, perhaps on her
aunt's behalf, or why she was being thus
hurried to see this wonderful penniless
orphan who had no designs upon men, but
who disliked and was disliked by all the
other women of the neighbourhood. 'rit
looks very much as if I were being taken
to her on approval, for inspection," said
Eleanor within herself. Her white teeth
showed a little in a not altogether amiable
smile. '' Well, let it be so. I am committed
to nothing with her. We will see
what she is. I think I can sustain her
inspection."

She also reflected that Athos gift of
character-drawing seemed to be in a very
undeveloped condition, and she had more
than once noticed, during her short career,
that when men describe women, they very
often paint them, not as they are, but as

the women have chosen that they should
find them ; and this was very Hkely the
case with Otho and Miss Wynter.

Here we are," observed Otho, as they
turned in at the Balder Hall Lodge, rode
up to the door, and found that Miss
Wynter was at home.

CHAPTER XIII.

Twenty-eight AND Twenty-two.

Miss Strangforth's butler threw open the
door of an exquisite little upstairs sitting-room,
and announced Otho and Eleanor.
The latter, whose whole mind had been
dwelling in anticipation on the meeting
with this woman whom she disliked in
advance, got a sort of jar through her
nerves as, on walking into the room, she
confronted, not only Magdalen luxuriously
stretched in a low easy-chair by the fire,
but, much more conspicuous at the moment,
the figure of a man, standing on the hearth-rug,
with his back to the fire. A slight
shock went through her as she encountered

the pair of grave and searching eyes which
had been present in her mind more than
once during the last twenty-four hours.
It was Michael Langstroth who looked at
her. Eleanor's first feeling was an unreasoning
one of disappointment. " He
comes to see her too, then." The next
was one of satisfaction. '' At any rate, I
shall now learn who he is."

Then her attention was drawn to Magdalen,
as the latter rose, with a slight ''Ah ! "
and advanced, saying, '' Well, Otho, how
do you do ? "

Eleanor looked at her. She had a rapid
general impression of a tall woman, beautiful
both in face and form, and arrayed in a
mouse-coloured velvet gown  a woman
whose exceedingly white and finely shaped
hands held some brilliant scarlet wool and
ivory knitting-needles ; who had eyes which
for darkness and coldness could not be
surpassed, and a sweet and frigid smile.

** Well," Otho retorted, not very gaily ;

I've smashed through all etiquette and
ceremony, I suppose, in doing this, and
brought my sister to see you, instead of
waiting for you to come and see her.
Eleanor, this is my friend. Miss Wynter."

He led his sister a little forward as he
spoke, so that she was fully displayed to
Magdalen's view ; and Miss Wynter's eyes
encountered a sight she did not often see
a woman as beautiful as herself, and
possessing, too, the powerful advantage of
being six years younger than she was.
Her plain dark riding dress suited to
admiration the frank and hardy youthfulness
of the wearer ; for with all her softness
of voice and outline, and for all the rounded
grace of her form, there was a hardiness
about Eleanor Askam which gave piquancy
to her whole aspect.

*' It was very good of you, Otho, and
exceedingly good of you. Miss Askam.
I was absolutely unable to go out this
afternoon, and I wanted so much to make

your acquaintance." She extended her
hand to Eleanor, and smiled her usual
smile ; one without any flavour of insincerity
or of sincerity either  a smile which
repelled and displeased Eleanor, she knew
not why.

Otho seemed extremely anxious about
it," she said coolly and gravely, " and I did
what he wished me to do."

Her voice rang out, clear and distinct 
no muffled notes, and no hesitation or
pretence of being delighted to pay the
visit. Magdalen noted it all, and replied
sweetly 

'eyes ; I am so glad you came. Take

this easy-chair, and Oh, Michael, I

beg your pardon." She slurred over an
almost inaudible introduction.

Miss Askam and I have met already,"
said Michael with composure. " I think I
may safely claim the honour of having
been before you in having made her
acquaintance."

No  how ? " exclaimed Magdalen,
arrested.

Yes," said Eleanor, looking at Michael
as she seated herself. '' I did not know
who Mr. "

'' Langstroth," said Michael, speaking
for himself.

*' Langstroth," repeated Eleanor, with a
little bow, " was ; nor he who I was."

I beg your pardon. I read your name
on the label that was on your bag," he
remarked ; but he neither bowed nor
smiled, though it would have been impossible
to say that his manner was not
polite. It was very much so, but not at all
cordial.

Mr. Langstroth saved me from getting
out a station too soon," she said, turning to
Otho, in explanation. She could not help
seeing that his moody countenance wore
anything but one of its lighter expressions.
He stood stiffly, his hat and whip in his
hand, and a fleeting side-glance had shown

her that he and the stranger (was he any
relation, she wondered, to Otho's great
friend, Gilbert Langstroth, who was
coming down for Christmas ?) had exchanged
a very slight and indifferent
acknowledgment of each other's presence.

Michael Langstroth, now standing upright,
looking on, betrayed no feeling of
any kind as he heard her remark. It
was five years now since he had had a
letter from Magdalen, which had gone near
to turning his brain. Such episodes have
the effect upon those who receive them
of, to use a vulgarism, killing or curing.
Michael had been cured; hence his presence
in Magdalen's boudoir now ; hence
his ability to stand by and take in the
comedy of the situation, and to feel decidedly,
if a little sardonically, amused at
what was taking place.

He did not sit down again. He wished
Magdalen good afternoon ; and Eleanor
noticed that, although polite  she had a

Strong conviction that under no possible
combination of circumstances could he be
impolite  he was not what could be called
genial. He was grave and distant, and
however slight this gravity and distance,
they were present, and Eleanor, keenly
sensitive to manner and expression, noticed
them instantly. Michael said he would
call again in a few days, bowed to them
all, and took his departure.

*' Now, Otho," said Miss Wynter, almost
before Michael had left the room, '' I have
something to tell you. I had better do it
now, before I forget. Briggs has got a very
wonderful colt to show you, and has been

expressing the most ardent longing "

'' Briggs  a colt ! " exclaimed Otho,
with unaffected interest and animation ;
I'll go to him this minute. I suppose he
is at the stables ? "

*' I suppose so  somewhere there," replied
Magdalen nonchalantly; and Otho
disappeared instantly, while Eleanor sat

Still, feeling intensely displeased, less at
what was actually said and done than at
the tone and the manner of it. Fine-tempered
and incapable of behaving with
insolence or impertinence to any inferior,
it yet seemed to her that Magdalen was
scarcely in a position to order Otho to the
stables, so that she might be left alone
with his sister; or, indeed, to call him by
his Christian name, and almost openly to
hint that she wanted him out of the way 
unless, indeed, she were engaged to be
married to him, which Eleanor, with a
sudden sense of apprehension, hoped she
was not ; and recalling Otho's dissertations
on their ride hither, she felt it was scarcely
possible that he could be.

While she was thinking these thoughts,
and while the shadow of them was on
her too expressive countenance, Magdalen
sank back in her chair, watching her visitor
keenly, if unobtrusively. When she addressed
her, she spoke with a smile, but

her eyes, Eleanor noticed, did not in the
least partake of the smile upon her lips.
She smiled, not because she felt pleased,
or genial, or mirthful, but mechanically 
because it is the custom to smile when you
receive your guests.

Eleanor, on her part, was conscious of
liking less and less the aroma, as it were,
of Miss Wynter and her surroundings ;
but she was aware that this was blind
prejudice, and was determined to overcome
it if she could. She was very young, and
Otho had not been wrongs when he had
described her as enthusiastic ; but she felt
a kind of mental and moral chill, or ever
she had really entered into conversation
with this woman, who had, as it were,
been so suddenly flung across her path,
and who, she began to realize, must bea
powerful influence in Otho's life. It
must be so, she reflected, or he would not
thus have been eaorer to brintr them too

o

gather, and then as eager to leave them

VOL. I. 1 8

alone. Alone, for what ? she reflected  to
discover the innate and latent points of
sympathy between them, and to rejoice in
them, or to fight out their radical differences
to the bitter end ?

CHAPTER XIV.

THRUST AND PARRY.

Of course you are quite strange to Brad-stane
? " began Magdalen.

'' Yes, quite  at least, practically so. I
can't recall much about it. In fact, I'm
strange to the north altogether, except
Scotland staying at hotels or shooting-boxes,
you know."

"Ah, yes. Those are luxuries for the
rich," said Magdalen, whose whole person,
attire, and surroundings breathed an atmosphere
of more than riches, of extravagance.
" I may say I have never been in
the south, for I haven't, except to Bournemouth,
with my aunt. Well, I wonder

how you will ' like,' as they say here. The
society of Bradstane is a little peculiar.
It is not intellectual"  Eleanor felt a little
surprise at this ; Magdalen herself had
not struck her as looking intellectual 
and it is not by any means lively. And
I suppose you have been accustomed to
a good deal of variety in your life ? "

'* Not lately. Six months ago, my aunt,
Mrs. Stanley, who has been my second
mother, died very suddenly. We have
had a very quiet and a very sad house
ever since, and if Bradstane were ever
so gay, I should not be going out much
now."

'' Ah, yes, very sad  Otho mentioned
your loss," murmured Magdalen, who, with
the self-absorption of her kind, had forgotten
Eleanorss account of her uncle's
condition.

'* And then," added Eleanor, feeling her
heart beating just a little faster, but
marching straight into the fray, " I have

Otho. I hope to see something of him
now. He is my only brother, and I have
been much separated from him."

"Ah, your brother," said Magdalen, all
at once discarding her purring tone, and
taking up her knitting, with the expression
of one who has just come to some mental
decision. "He was the attraction, was
he ? "

Hateful woman ! " said Eleanor within
herself. " She thinks he is her property,
and that I am come to dispute him with
her. So I have, and so I will." Then
aloud, " Certainly, he was an attraction,
if it needed a great attraction to make me
wish to visit my own home, after so many
years. Besides, who knows how long I
may have the chance to be with him, and
get to know him ? I am astonished that
he has not married before now."

A slight pause. Eleanor herself was
surprised to find in what style she was
talking; but something in the very presence

of the other woman seemed to
arouse her pugnacity, and to place her In
an almost aggressive attitude.

At any rate, while I have the field to
myself, I mean to let Otho know that he
has a sister," she pursued, with a slight
laugh.

'' Highly commendable," said Magdalen,
either with constraint or a slight sneer ; it
would have been difficult to say which.

He is a great friend of yours, I find,"
continued Eleanor, looking directly at
Magdalen, who made no reply to the
words. Eleanor paused a moment, and
then took her course. She was really
anxious to learn, if she could, the extent
of this woman's influence over her brother ;
but more than that, to get to know whether
she were a sincere woman, or a false one.
She would feign a tender interest in Otho's
affairs, and a sisterly solicitude for his
welfare. As a matter of fact, she knew
nothing of the said affairs, nor whether

well or ill might be the word to apply to
his spiritual condition. She would try to
discover. It was a hardy resolution, with
such a woman as Magdalen for her opponent,
but want of courage was not one of
Eleanor's defects.

It seems so strange," she presently
went on, in a musing tone, '' that you,
living in the same place and being his
friend, must have seen him often, and
know him quite well, while I, his own
sister, scarcely know anything about him."

You think that is a great loss, I suppose
? "

'* Well, yes, I do. I think I ought to
know about him  good or bad. It seems
to me unnatural that I should not. I wish
you would tell me something about him,
Miss Wynter. It really seems as though
he had left us on purpose that we might
discuss him."

Why discuss him at all ? "

'* Well," said Eleanor with a smile, " I

don't think you and I can have many
objects of mutual interest to talk about.
Otho is one, obviously  my brother and
your friend. I think it is most natural to
talk about him. From what he said of
you, I am sure you must know a great
deal of his character and disposition. He
is very reserved, I think. I want to get
on with him, of course. Can't you tell me
something of his tastes and habits ? "

Miss Wynter's white eyelids drooped,
but quivered not. Her fingers flew in and
out of the scarlet wool, and the ivory
needles made a pleasant, dull clicking.
What she thought with cold annoyance
was, that Eleanor was impertinent and
inquisitive, devoid of tact and savoir faire.
(No one knew better than Eleanor herself
that her present conduct was scarcely
conventional, but she felt that she did not
much care what it was, so long as she
rode away from Balder Hall possessed of
definite views as to Magdalen's goodness

or badness, and she rather hoped the conversation
would disclose badness.) If the
young woman were put down at once and
promptly, Magdalen argued, she might
perhaps profit by the lesson ; If not, if
encouraged In the least, she was almost
certain to become very troublesome. So
she said  

My dear child, you surely do not suppose
that because a man comes once or
twice a week and chats with one for an
hour or two, or even spends a whole
afternoon In one's society, that he necessarily
reveals to one anything of his real
habits or character ? "

It depends on what his habits maybe,
of course," said Eleanor with gravity ;
and. In spite of telling herself that she was
acting a part, she felt a vague uneasiness,
which vexed her like a coming trouble
whenever any question arose of Otho and
his doings. It was not the first time she
had felt It. Dim reports of his fastness and

Strange habits had penetrated even to her
well-sheltered home with the Stanley ;
and more than once her uncle had said to
her, "My dear, I'm afraid your brother
spends a good deal of money in a very
reckless way."

It depends on what his habits maybe,"
she repeated ; '' but he could not
come so often as that and not show something
of his character  or disposition,
perhaps I should say."

*well, you will see him daily, now that
you have come to live with him  possibly
for many hours in each day. I see him,
at the most, once or twice a week, for an
hour, or perhaps two hours. It is obvious
that your opportunities will be incomparably
greater than mine have been.
Don't you think you had better study his
character at first hand  if you are interested
in it, that is ? "

"If I am interested  in my own
brother ? "

I see you have very enthusiastic ideas,
and quite orthodox ones, about brothers
and sisters loving each other, however dissimilar
in character and disposition they
may be " (Eleanor repressed a smile.
She had not expressed any such views),
'just because they are brothers and sisters.
But, you know, it is not wise to take your
impressions of any one in whom you are
interested from a third person. How can
you know what feelings and what motives
might influence me in speaking to you of
him "

'' Oh, Miss Wynter, would Otho have
brought me here if you had had a bad
influence over him ? He thinks so much
of you," said Eleanor, seeing that Magdalen
had accepted her (Eleanor's) presentation
of herself, and feeling that her role
was now an easy one to play.

No," pursued Miss Wynter, apparently
unheeding Eleanor's last remark ; '' study
him and his character at your ease, by

yourself, and don't worry yourself about
it. As for his habits  now, this advice
really comes from my heart, Miss Askam,'
and Magdalen laid down her work and
looked with cold earnestness at her companion
 " if he were younger than you, orin
any way in your keeping or under your
control, it would clearly be your duty to
become acquainted with his incoming and
outgoings, and to supervise his proceedings.
But just the reverse is the case.
He is older than you by several years ; he
is his own master, and has been so for
many years, accustomed to consult himself
alone  you little know how much himself
alone  in the management of his own
affairs. He knows his own aims and
wishes, If he has any. Let me advise
you, if you wish to have a shadow of
influence over him, never to Interfere, byword,
look, or deed, with anything that he
may choose to do. I do not say that by
this course you will gain an influence over

him, but I say that if you do not observe
it, you will lose every chance of ever gaining
one. He will not brook the least
appearance of meddling "

'' But, indeed, I do not want " began

Eleanor, astounded at the revelation her
ruse had called forth  amazed at the
depths of angry feeling which she saw
quickly enough were surging under
that composed exterior called Magdalen
Wynter. But Magdalen had begun her
exhortation, and was not to be easily
stopped. In the same cold but energetic
style she went on 

If you once let him see that you think
his affairs are anything to you, your chance
is gone."

My chance  of what ? " thought Eleanor,
looking, as she now felt, very grave.

Magdalen saw this gravity. Her
thought was, " Silly, sentimental creature !
The idea of coming rushing in with a
mission or a vocation to improve her

brother ! Some women never will learn."
Then, after a moment's pause, she continued


'' Men are odd, you know. If they do
wrong, yes, even if they wrong you  if
they do something flagrantly unjust, and
you reproach them, or scold them, or try
to make them see how bad they have been,
what good does it do ? It does not make
them sorry or ashamed, but it makes them
think you very disagreeable ; it makes
them angry with you for dictating to them ;
it makes them cease to have any wish to
please you, or any regard for you. Let
him alone, unless you wish to make mischief.
You understand me, I dare say ? "

I'm afraid I understand that my
brother's habits are not what they should
be."

That is a very hasty conclusion,
and shows that you certainly have not
understood me. If I must speak so very
plainly "

I do not wish to interfere with him,"
said Eleanor, with a shade of hauteur ;
but she was uneasy, and an anxious colour
had begun to burn on either cheek. She
had come hither against her will. She
had disliked Magdalen from Otho's talk
of her, had disliked her more on seeing
and conversing with her, and had descended
to subterfuge, to find out her
thoughts about her brother. She was pure
of any wish to be a missionary to Otho,
which was evidently what Magdalen had
gathered to be her object ; but she had
unwittingly called forth an indirect characterization
of her brother  and that from
one who evidently knew him well, and was
tenacious of her hold on him  which
roused her deepest uneasiness. After the
last words there was a pause, and then
Eleanor said slowly, and wishing the while
that she had not begun the conversation 
'' And I have no doubt that you know
far more about him than I do."

'' You credit me with a great deal of
very important knowledge," said Magdalen,
coldly and sweetly. "All I can say is,
that if I possessed that knowledge to the
full, I should not think of imparting it to
you  not for a moment. And let me remind
you that, whether he be good or bad,
I am not your brother's keeper. I think
he is quite competent to take care of
himself."

I was not dreaming of assuming any
such office," Eleanor said, fully convinced
from Magdalen tone that she did feel
herself to be Otho's keeper, in a sense ;
that she liked the proprietorship, and
meant to fight for her possession of it, if
it were disputed. The idea of entering
the lists with her filled Eleanor with disgust.
Her impressions, could she have
reduced them to their simplest form, were
that Otho was not what he ought to be in
the matter of conduct, and that Magdalen
knew a good deal more about him than

she chose to tell. Miss Wynter, however,
seemed to consider the subject at an end,
and to assume that Eleanor had found
out her mistake. She herself began with
a new subject.

How came you to know Michael
Langstroth ? " she inquired, with her
sweetest smile.

Oh, I don't consider that I know him.
Did you not hear what I said to Otho ?
He got into the carriage I was in, at a
station near Tebay. He seemed in a
great hurry, and jumped in as the train
was setting off "

Just like him ! "

A porter at Tebay had told me that
the station after this one at which Mr.
Langstroth got in would be Bradstane,
so I was collecting my things, and I
suppose he saw from that label on my
bag where I was really going ; for he said,
 Are you getting out at Cotherstone ? '
Then, of course, I explained, and he ex-vol.

I. 19

planned, and it was all right. He got out
at Cotherstone, and I came on to Brad-stane."


'' Oh yes," said Magdalen, who had
listened attentively, and watched no less
attentively the manner and gestures of
the speaker. "He has such long distances
to go in a country place like this."

Do they all call him * Doctor ' Lang-troth,
here ? "

*' Yes, they all do. It is a country habit.
He 'doctors' them, so he is 'the doctor ;'
but he practises as a surgeon."

'' Is he a friend of yours, then } "

'' I have known him intimately for many
years."

'' Otho says that some one whom he
called * Gilbert Langstroth' is his greatest
friend. Is he any relation of this Mr.
Langstroth } "

'' Brother."

Indeed ! But Otho seemed not to
know Dr. Langstroth very well."

They are not devoted to each other."

Have they quarrelled ? "

It could hardly be that these questions
of Eleanor s, put in all innocence and good
faith, were agreeable to Magdalen. Perhaps,
when she asked Otho to bring his
sister soon, she had foreseen some such
catechism. Perhaps she had reflected that
the old facts of her engagement to Michael
and its rupture, and the reasons assigned
for it, must surely, sooner or later, come
to Eleanor Askam's ears, since they were
public property, and it was not the fashion
in Bradstane to hide any treasure, however
minute, of fact or fiction, gossip or
scandal, which had once gained credence
in the public mind. Why not, she may
have 'reflected, let Eleanor hear the story
from herself, and so at any rate gain that
first hearing which is supposed to go such
a long way towards deciding the final
verdict ? She knew quite well that, along
with the simple account of her own engagement

to Michael, and of its having
been broken off, Eleanor would likewise
hear that she, Magdalen, had jilted
Michael, hoping to be married by Otho
Askam. That, whether true or not, was
what was said, and Magdalen knew it as
well as if she had heard it herself. She
knew, too, that women had laughed at her,
and did laugh at her yet, because she had
thrown Michael over, they said, and not
secured Otho. People did not say those
things to her, of course, but she knew
that they were said, and that they would
be said to Eleanor. Grievous though the
questions of the latter might appear to her,
therefore, it might have been still more
grievous to know that Eleanor was seated
in other drawing - rooms, hearing other
versions of the story.

Oh, it is a long tale, rather," said
she ; and she related correctly enough the
history of the two brothers, not mentioning
her own relations to Michael, but watching

Eleanor with Interest. She saw how the
girl's eyes gradually kindled, and her lips
parted, as she heard, and seemed almost
to foresee the end of the tale. She leaned
forward eagerly as Magdalen wound up
with the story of the will and its directions,
and how Michael had received the
blow.

'' Yes ? " said Eleanor.

When he found that his father's house
was all that belonged to him, the first
thing he did was to turn Gilbert out of it,
calling him traitor, and saying he had lost
his brother. He drove him out that
instant, you know, on the spot."

He was right," exclaimed Eleanor, ina
deep voice, which showed how great
had been her interest and her suspense ;
and as she spoke, she struck her riding
whip emphatically across her left hand,
and looked up with a frown. " I would
have done the same. Cowardly, snake-like
traitor!" The instinct of the fig-htinor

o o

animal was strong in Eleanor, as it is inmost
healthy creatures.

You think so ? A great many other
persons thought the same ; and a great
lawyer, a friend of Michael's, wanted him
to dispute the will."

*' And did he ? "

'' Michael dispute it ! My dear Miss
Askam, he is far too haughty and high-flown
to descend to any such mundane
method of settling the matter. He said
he washed his hands of it, and left his
brother Gilbert to his conscience. He
refused to touch any of the sum which
was left him  or rather, to Gilbert, to
manage for him. He said he had a profession
which would keep him from starvation,
and a roof to cover him  he would
have no more."

'' I agree with him," said Eleanor, still
very emphatically ; and she lifted her eyes,
filled with the feeling that was in her, and
her whole countenance brightened with an

ennobling light, the result of inner exaltation,
and as Magdalen met this gaze, her
own eyes dilated, a look of something like
affright crossed his face ; she said quickly
and coldly 

"It sounds very well  very grand, does
it not ? Quite heroic, in fact."

'' I think it was very fine  very high."

'' It sounds so, and it was so, in a way.
But when one comes down to the dull
regions of common sense, as one always
has to do in the end, it does not work
very well. For instance, that high resolution
that you admire so much was the rock
that Michael and I split upon."

Michael  and you," repeated Eleanor
mechanically, looking at Magdalen with
a new expression, and with all the glow
fading from her eyes.

'' Yes, exactly. When Mr. Langstroth
died, his son and I had been engaged three
years. We had always looked forward to
being married  at least, I had  when our

prospects Improved. But when all this
came out, and It was evident that Michael
would have no assistance, and even refused
what he might have had, there was an end
to all that, of course. He was not well off.
He never will be. He has not the spirit
of  I won't say money-making, but of the
most ordinary providence for the future.
When he refused the provision that had
been made for him, I knew that meant
that I must give him up, and I did so.
We have only been friends ever since,
and "

'you gave him up, then  oh. Miss
Wynter, how could you ? " Eleanor had
exclaimed, before she knew what she was
saying. The next moment she felt that
she had committed an indiscretion, but she
scarcely improved the situation by hastily
exclaiming, '' Oh, I beg your pardon ! "

There is no need," said Magdalen,
quite composedly. " One cannot enter
into the details of such things with

Strangers. I acted, as I thought, for the
best. Poor Michael ! He is such a fine
fellow in some ways, but so utterly, so
hopelessly unpractical. He is not fit for
his position, or for the present age ; and
yet he is so loyal, so true. I do not
believe he ever cared, or ever will care, for
any woman but me," she added, looking
pensively at Eleanor as she spoke. '' That
sounds rather a self-confident thing to say,
does it not ? but I have known him so
long  I have good grounds for thinking
that I am right. He is not like those men
who love here a day, and there a day, and
another day somewhere else. . . . Poor
Michael ! "

While she spoke, Eleanor felt her heart
as heavy as lead within her. If Magdalen
Wynter and Gilbert Langstroth were
Otho's friends, and beloved of him, and
this other man was shut out and disliked
yes, her idea that Magdalen knew more
about Otho than she would say must be

correct, and it seemed as if the whole
thing were painful and discordant. But
she supposed Miss Wynter must possess
unusual powers of fascination, since
Michael, after being treated by her in a
manner which even her representations
could not make to appear creditable,
remained her friend. Had he not been
seated there when they arrived ?

Pondering painfully on this problem, she
was roused by the opening of the parlour
door, and looked up quickly, in the hope
that it might be Otho, and that they would
soon escape from this room, which had
become a place that oppressed hen

CHAPTER

PACK

I. Three Women .  i

II. A Friendship explained . 17

III. Roger Camm's Courting .-34

IV. A Wild-Goose Chase . . 47
<C V. Inevitable . .  7 6

VI. How a Thorn was planted . 10S

VII. Work and Wages . . . 13S

VIII. Cross-purposes . . . 168

IX. Quarrel . . . .189

X. Otho's Revenge . . . 208

XI. In the Ante-room . . .2.26

XII. Her Heart's Desire . . 243

XIII. Recrimination . .  262

XIV. At the Mills . .  280

CHAPTER I.

THREE WOMEN.

Miss Dixon to see you, ma'am," said
the servant. Eleanor looked on with some
interest, as Magdalen greeted the young
woman who entered  greeted her in a
manner which, though cordial, was decidedly
a patronizing manner. Eleanor
saw that the girl's eyes fell almost instantly
upon her, and dwelt upon her, surveying
her with an eagerness and a curiosity
which puzzled and somewhat annoyed her.
Miss Askam saw, too, that the new-comer,
though Magdalen spoke to her in a tone
almost of intimacy, was not a lady, as the
term is usually understood.

VOL. II. 20

This is Miss Ada Dixon," observed
Magdalen ; " a friend of mine, who comes
to sing with me sometimes. Ada, Miss
Askam."

Eleanor bowed to the young girl, who
returned the movement with a somewhat
affected contortion of the body, and said,
"How do you do, Miss Askam?" all ina
certain manner which, while it could
scarcely be called vulgar or awkward, was
yet most distinctly not the manner of one
accustomed to good society, or feeling at
her ease in it. Eleanor looked at her with
some curiosity. She saw an extremely
pretty, slight girl, with a small face, of
classical purity and correctness of outline,
light hazel eyes, a delicate complexion, a
pretty mignonne figure, dressed in the
most outre of would-be fashionable styles,
such second-rate, nay, third or fourth rate
fashion as Bradstane milliners and dressmakers
could supply, aggravated by an
entire want in the wearer of any sense of

harmony or fitness. She had piled upon
her pretty little person many strange
mixtures of material and structures of
garments. A tightly fitting winter jacket,
for example, of thick cloth, trimmed with
fur, was a not unsuitable garment for the
season ; but, instead of the serviceable silk
neckerchief one would have expected to
see worn with it, Miss Dixon had on a
large and conspicuous arrangement of white
lace, muslin, and blue ribbon, inclined to
puff up under her chin in an unmanageable
way, but kept within bounds by a massive
silver locket and chain. This was but one
example of the innumerable errors of taste
and style which characterized the girl's
toilette ; and yet, so pretty was she, so fresh
and charming in her prettiness, that one
forgot to criticize very severely such minor
matters as clashing colours and incongruous
materials.

"And how are you, Ada ?" asked Miss
Wynter.

Very well, thank you, Miss Wynter.
There's nothing ails me, that I know of."

You'll have a cup of tea, I dare say.
Have you walked from Bradstane ? "

Yes, Miss Wynter, I have."

And how are you going to get home ? "

"I'm to leave here at half-past six, if
you can do with me so long, and then
Mr. Camm will meet me at the gate, he
said."

Meet you at the gate ? Did you not
ask him to come in ? "

I did say that you'd told me to bring
him in, Miss Wynter; but he never will.
It's no use. He has no more manners
than a cat, and so I often tell him. I'm
sure I've said many a time how bad it
looks for him to come just so far for me,
and not any further."

Oh, I think Mr. Camm is not very
fond of me."

Oh, Miss Wynter, I assure you "

began Ada, reddening vividly.

There, never mind. Young men wiW
do their own way, I know. You must
know, Miss Askam," she added, turning to
Eleanor, " Miss Dixon has a stalwart
protector in the shape of her betrothed,
Mr. Roger Camm."

Oh, indeed."

"He is Doctor Langstroth's greatest
friend, you know," pursued Magdalen.
They live in the same house, and are
quite inseparable."

Yes," said Eleanor, wondering within
herself whether this Roger Camm formed,
intellectually or socially, any connecting
link between Michael Langstroth and Ada
Dixon, for it appeared to her that there
was a considerable distance between them
in every way.

Ada had now finished her tea. Of
course, she did not reveal to her hostess
that Roger Camm had said nothing would
induce him to set foot within the Balder
Hall walls, but that he would walk the

two miles from Bradstane to meet his
sweetheart, rather than let her return alone
in the dark, or be dependent upon Miss
Wynter's good nature for an escort or a
carriage.

Would you mind giving us a song,
Ada ? " said the latter. " I am sure Miss
Askam would like it, and I want to hear
how you have progressed since the last
time I heard you."

Oh, with pleasure," said Ada, with an
undeniable simper, as she pulled off her
gloves and went to the piano. She unrolled
some music, sat down, and had just
run her fingers over the keys, when the
door was again opened, and this time it
was Otho who walked in. He paused a
moment, looked round, and then said 

Holloa, Ada; you here! How do?"
And he nodded to her.

How do you do, Mr. Askam ? " said
the girl, colouring a little, as she rose from
the music-stool and made a kind of bow.

u Now, don't let Mr. Askam prevent
us from hearing your song, child," said
Magdalen, as Otho seated himself near
her, and began to talk in a low voice.

Eleanor had watched the scene with
a sense of displeasure, ill defined, but
strong. She now perceived that Ada had
become nervous  that she cleared her
throat, and did not seem quite able to
begin. Thinking it was too bad of Magdalen
to treat the girl in this way, and
insist upon her singing before two perfect
strangers, when she had very likely expected
no other audience than her hostess
herself, Eleanor, with the instinct which
never failed her in such cases, rose and
went to the piano.

What is your song called, Miss
Dixon ? " she asked kindly. " I will turnover
the leaves for you, if I may."

Oh, thank you, Miss Askam ! " said
Ada, evidently much relieved.

Eleanor casually wondered why she

should insist upon saying the name of
every person to whom she spoke every
time she addressed them. Magdalen and
Otho interrupted their conversation for a
moment, to look and listen, then resumed
it as if no one but themselves were
present.

Ada began to sing, in a fresh, tuneful
soprano voice, a simple unaffected ditty
which Eleanor rightly conjectured had
been chosen for, rather than by her. It
was a bright, rather pathetic little song, all
about faith and love and the rewards of
constancy, and when it was over Eleanor
was able conscientiously to say 

Thank you very much. It is a very
pretty song. ; '

Otho also murmured something, intended
perhaps for thanks ; and then
Eleanor, who felt jarred and vexed in every
nerve, from the uncongenial conversation
in which she had lately partaken, wished
Magdalen good afternoon.

Oh, are you going ? " exclaimed the
latter. " Why must you go so soon ? "

It is dark, and I think I have been
here a good while. Are you ready,
Otho ? "

Otho looked at his sister for a moment.
Then he also took his leave, and very
soon they were riding away, side by side,
down the avenue of the Balder Hall
drive.

Eleanor drew a long breath as they
went out at the gates, and emerged upon
the high-road. She was conscious of a
feeling of weariness, of a wish for a little
cold fresh air  something bracing  and of
a hope that Otho would not ask her
anything about Miss Wynter. In that
she was disappointed, for he inquired
almost immediately what she thought of
her.

I do not like her much, Otho," she
said, as gently as she could. "It may be
prejudice on my part, and one cannot tell

after seeing a person for the first time,
but there is something  I can hardly define
it  a tone about her that I do not like."

"Just like a girl," said Otho, in a surly
tone. " And scarcely any women do like
Magdalen. They can't forgive her for
being so handsome."

She is very handsome indeed. Perhaps
I may like her better when  or if
I learn to know more of her. I should
be sorry to dislike a friend of yours. But
I must own that I could not get to like
her, this afternoon."

"Well, I don't suppose your likes or
dislikes are of much importance to her,"
he said roughly.

Not of the very least, I should think.
It is to me that they are important, especially
if I see much of Miss Wynter. By
the way, who was that girl who came in ?
I could not quite understand her."

Oh, she's a protege of Magdalen's 
has been for years  a daughter of Dixon

the stationer in the town. A queer little
rat, isn't she, who tries to ape the ways of
fine ladies. She's engaged to a very
rough diamond of a man  anything but a
fine gentleman ; and I should have thought
a counter-jumper or a commercial gent
would have been more in her line. But
no, she's going to marry this fellow. Roger
Camm is his name. He is the manager
at the Townend Mills, which Gilbert
Langstroth and I work together. I don't
like the fellow. He is so uppish, and yet
he is so first-rate in his work, that if I
sacked him I should not know where to
put my hand on any one else like him."

A friend of Dr. Langstroth's, Miss
Wynter said."

Yes, and that does not make me love
him any the better, I can tell you."

You don't like Dr. Langstroth ? "

Like him ! " echoed Otho, with brutal
candour. " I hate him. A wild, vapouring,
sentimental fellow, that the women all

rave about  why, I can't imagine, for his
ways are cold enough to them, for all his
handsome face. He sets up to know
better than any one else. In fact, he's a
conceited prig, that's what Michael Lang-troth
is. The place would be well rid of
him, in my opinion, if he'd only have the
goodness to leave it. His brother Gilbert
is worth a thousand of him."

In what way ? " asked Eleanor curtly.

In common sense, and knowledge of
the world, and  everything that goes to
make a man," said Otho angrily.

Eleanor hearkened, but made' no reply
to his words. She had not yet been with
him twenty-four hours, but she already had
an intuitive feeling as to what subjects
would and would not be congenial to him.

I see you've been hearing that old
tale, have you ? " Otho went on, glancing
at her. " Magdalen has been improving
the shining hour, I perceive. But she
does not usually slang Gilbert."

She did not ' slang ' anybody, as you
call it," said Eleanor, feeling ever a deeper
repugnance as Otho more fully unfolded
his views upon men and things, in language,
too, of increasing nicety of expression.

There are always two sides to a question,"
he went on, " and some people seem
to me to forget that, but for Gilbert, his
father would have had no money to leave ;
so that he was entitled to a voice in the
disposal of it, if ever man was. His
brother treated him like a dog at that time.
I've always hated him for it, and I like
to flaunt Gilbert in his face when he comes
to stay with me. And as for Magdalen
jilting Michael Langstroth, as they call it 
jilting him ! " Otho sneered  " I don't see
why a woman is to be called a jilt because,
when she has given a man full three years'
trial, and at the end of the time finds that
he is as far off as ever from being able to
keep her, and has chucked up the one
chance there was of being provided for,

she writes and tells him she thinks there
had better be an end to it. And that's
about what did happen between them."

Eleanor made no reply to this further
explanation of Otho's views. She felt disgusted
 it was the only word for her condition.
She felt as if she would like to
make her opinion known to both Otho and
Magdalen, upon this question of their conduct
to Michael Langstroth. It was the
first time in her life that she had been
brought in contact with such doings as
seemed to have been going on here. Long
ago they had taken place, these ugly evil
deeds of falsehood and injustice ! Their
effect upon the perpetrators did not seem
to have been that of making them more
urbane in manner, happy in disposition, or
lofty in character. Poor Eleanor still felt
very strong  felt as if she could cope with
any fate that presented itself to her. But
even now she did not feel so buoyant as
before. The scenes she had that afternoon

passed through struck deep root in her
memory : Magdalen's cold, unattractive
beauty, her cynicism, and the fear, which
she had not been able quite to conceal,
lest she was going to lose her hold over
Otho (what was that hold ? Eleanor
wondered) ; Otho, talking, self-assertive,
abusive, and, as Eleanor felt, deep down
1 n her heart  miserable ; Michael Lang-troth,
with whom she had been struck on
their first meeting, and who haunted her,
now that she knew his history, w T with his
dark face, grave and almost stern, his
eyes, bent upon her and Magdalen with,
it seemed to her, the same expression for
both  one of cold, imperturbable politeness
and perfect indifference ; the little dressed
doll, with her fifth-rate airs and graces ;
the whole entertainment had repelled
and disgusted her. She would not cultivate
Magdalen's acquaintance, if she were
doomed not to have another friend in
Bradstane. And as for Doctor Langstroth,

was he Magdalen's friend still ? She had
said so, but nothing in his manner or
expression had confirmed it.

I wish I knew," Eleanor said to herself,
as they stopped at their own hall-door.
I wonder he ever condescended to speak
to her again. It's the only thing about
him that seems inexplicable," was her
further reflection, as Otho lifted her from
her horse.

CHAPTER II.

A FRIENDSHIP EXPLAINED.

Michael, tired himself, threw himself onto
his tired horse when he left Magdalen s
parlour, and rode down the drive and into
the high-road. He had had a long and
hard day, and there was weariness visible
in the paleness of his face, which was a
thinner and an older face than it had been.

But there was a theme in his mind,
occupying it to the exclusion of his weariness,
and this it was which engrossed him
as he rode towards Bradstane.

So that is Otho Askam's sister ? " he
reflected. " I had nearly forgotten that
he had a sister. Somehow, one never

VOL. II. 21

associates him with human, kindly connections
of that kind. I remember her
now, though, when we used to be children
together in the Thorsgarth garden. She
wore a blue velvet frock, I remember, and
little kid shoes. I used to think her a
pretty little thing. She is something more
than a pretty little thing now, though "  he
smiled a little to himself  " rather a superb
young woman, I should say, and, judging
from all one can gather from a flying
glimpse and a few words, about the antipodes
of her brother in everything  yes, I
should say everything. I wonder if she
knows about his character ? I wonder how
she got to Balder Hall so soon after her
arrival ? With him for a brother, and
Magdalen for a friend  she is splendidly
equipped, and need fear nothing, morally
or socially. . . . She is a beautiful girl.
Such eyes, and such a fine expression."

Thinking such thoughts, he presently
arrived at the Red Gables, where he had

to devote himself to work till Roger came
in for dinner. Eleanor had wondered,
after she had heard Michael's story, how
he had been able to remain on terms of
politeness with Magdalen, who said plainly
that he was her friend still. But Magdalen
had given no recital of the steps by which
she and Michael had arrived at their
present degree of mutual courtesy and
neutrality. It was hardly likely that she
should, when such a recital must have laid
bare the very eye and core of her own
humiliation, of the degradation which was
constantly present in her consciousness,
and of the disappointment and the failure
which made her see all things in the light
of bitterness and cynicism.

She had broken with Michael, suddenly,
promptly, and pitilessly : she had not stayed
her hand, she had not softened her expressions
; she had dealt a blow which she
knew might ruin his life, and that knowledge
had not deterred her, or caused her

hand to tremble as she struck. She had
sent Michael  a broken man, as he thought
to recover his health, moral and physical,
as best he might ; and he had returned,
saying he was glad that nothing
remained of the man who had been
Michael Langstroth, since that man had
been a great fool.

When things have happened to a man
which make him feel as if the sun had
fallen out of the heavens, and the stars
changed their courses, he is, no doubt, a
little apt to feel astounded on finding, after
a time, that it was not the sun nor the
stars, but himself who was disturbed and
jolted out of his old orbit into a new one.
But let him be astonished as much as he
will  let him even be indignant, as he
very often is, at such vagaries of the universe
so distressing him  he cannot alter
things. The sun goes on shining, and the
stars pursue their appointed march, and
by-and-by he  to descend from great things

to small ones  also falls into some sort
of progress, be it march, or shamble, or
shuffle, or steady struggle onwards and
upwards. This always happens if the
man be a very man, and not an amorphous
sort of thin without backbone or sinew.

In obedience to this law it had come to
pass that Michael Langstroth, five years
after he had been stricken down, found
himself able to stand upright  found that
he was still living, moving, working ; could
laugh when a joke tickled him, which it
did pretty often ; could feel hungry when
he had fasted, and thought perhaps a little
more of the nature of the provision set
before him than he had formerly done.
This last trait was, no doubt, if one argues
rightly, a powerful sign that if he moved
now easily enough, still it was in a different
way, and oh a different platform from the
old ones.

On his return from Hastings, after the
illness which followed his fathers death

and Magdalen's repudiation of him, Dr.
Rowntree had attacked him, and gone near
to kill him with kindness of a very practical
sort ; insisting that he was an old
man, tired of hard work, who had lone
been wanting to retire, and had only been
waiting till Michael should be ready to
take his place. All tenders of payment
for his generosity he had firmly and
steadily put aside, till Michael had been
forced to stop any such suggestions. He
had finally accepted the doctor's goodness,
as the latter had fully made up his mind
that he should ; and so it came to pass
that, soon after his return to work, Michael
had found himself in possession of a practice
of his own, and also that the retirement
of his old friend had called a rival
into the field, another surgeon, who perhaps
thought that the Bradstane circuit was too
large for the unaided management of one
man. Thus Michael, while he became
better off than he had ever been before, ina

pecuniary point of view, found at the
same time that he must work with all his
might, just to keep the lead  not to be
swamped in the struggle. The practice he
now had was not as lucrative as the practice
of the old doctor, untroubled by any
rival, had been, but it was a practice on
which Michael could have afforded that
marriage which had been his goal for three
years. When he had come home and
begun work, he had heard many rumours,
many asseverations, even, that Magdalen
Wynter and Otho Askam were to be
married. Scandal-mongers said that she
had jilted Michael in order that she might
marry Otho. Michael had to steel his
heart and his nerves and his whole moral
man in a triple brazen armour, in order to
receive these assaults without wincing, and
in order to hear without shrinking the
proofs adduced in support of the hypothesis
 Otho's constant visits, namely, to
Balder Hall, and Magdalen's graciousness

to him. For his own part, with a natural
revulsion of feeling, the result of the demolition
of his blind trust in her, he was
firmly persuaded that the marriage would
take place ; but it did not. Months passed
by, and the indignation at Magdalen's infidelity
had merged into ridicule of her
failure  if failure it were, for Otho's visits
to Balder Hall continued with unabated
regularity.

During these months Michael had never
even seen her, and he took it for granted,
without thinking very much about it, that
he was. not to see her any more, nor hold
any intercourse with her. Then, one day,
a messenger came in haste from Balder
Hall to Doctor Rowntree, to say that Miss
Strangforth was very ill, and he was to goto
her immediately. But Doctor Rown-
tree was not in Bradstane at the moment.
Michael was, and of course there could be
no question of hesitating or debating. He
went to Balder Hall ; was ushered straight

into Miss Strangforth's room, where the
first object he saw was Magdalen Wy liters
face, pale and anxious, raised to look
at him as he came in. Michael had just
time to feel that all that he had been
sure he would experience on first meeting
her, was conspicuous by its absence  all
that he would have thought it least likely
that he should feel, he felt. It was she
who showed the more agitation of the two.
Her eyes fell, her lips fluttered  she could
not meet Michael's gaze. She spoke in a
low voice, timidly, deprecatingly. From
that moment he felt master of the situation,
and of her. It did not give him a more
kindly feeling towards life in general, or
towards Magdalen in particular, but it
made him conscious he was a free man.
It was he who from this day took the lead
in the intercourse between Magdalen and
himself  chose how far it should 0, laid
down the terms on which they should
meet. Magdalen had said to Eleanor,

We have been friends ever since." Perhaps
Michael would not have contradicted
her, even had she asserted this before his
face. But none could know better than
Magdalen herself what Michael in reality
felt for her now  none was better acquainted
than herself with the nature of
those ashes left after the edifice of his
faith in her had been so entirely consumed
and demolished. She knew that she was
powerless now to move him in any way 
that he was stronger than she was, and
that, instead of crushing him, she had exposed
herself to the possibility of being
crushed by him. He despised her  she
knew it : he esteemed her no higher than
his brother Gilbert, if he did not choose
to visit his contempt upon her in the
same way. She was his " friend," not because
he could not tear himself away from
her presence, but because she had now
become to him a thing of so little consequence
that it was not worth his while to

avoid her. He had never said so to her,
but she knew it, and it was more convenient
to say to Eleanor Askam, " Weare
friends," than it would have been to
explain to her the nature of the friendship.
And thus it can be understood how
Michael this night thought more of
Eleanor Askam, and felt more interest in
her  of a purely speculative kind  than in
the woman he had known and loved for
so many years. He had cut himself off
entirely from the Askam clan, as it were 
Gilbert was mixed up with them ; Magdalen
and Otho were friends, and Otho
was a man whom he disliked inevitably,
from his very nature. The vision of this
bright and beautiful girl, suddenly appearing
in a quarter to which he was accustomed
to consider himself a perfect
stranger, had struck him, and he felt
interested in her, as we feel interested in
amusing or curious things with which we
do not expect or desire to have any intimacy.

And while he was waiting" for
Roger to come in to dinner, and ostensibly
reading, he found himself half-dreaming,
for he was sleepy, and ever the vision
before his mental eyes was Magdalen's
scented, warm parlour, with its ruddy glow
of firelight cheering the dull afternoon, and
the sudden appearance upon the scene of
that bright and beautiful girl, with her
open gaze, and her abundant life and fire.

At last Roger came in, apologizing for
beinor J a t e .

I went to meet Ada, and it is a o-ood
half-hour's walk from Balder Hall."

"Oh, I've been at Balder Hall this
afternoon, too. Who do you think I saw
there ? "

Miss Askam I've heard."

Otho Askam's sister. That is the
light in which I saw her, I must confess."

Roger shrugged his shoulders. They
were as broad  he was as big, as clumsy,
as saturnine as ever.

Ada says she is very handsome."

Ay, she is ! Handsome enough to
make a sensation here, I can tell you."

Ah ! In her brother's style ?"

No, indeed. I should say they had no
two points in common, unless physiognomy
lies most atrociously."

"Wish her joy, I'm sure, then," said
Roger drily.

Just what I was thinking. Are you
i/oin out aofain to-night ? " he added, for
they had returned to the library, and he
saw Roger collecting sundry songs and
pieces of music.

Yes. The usual rendezvous," replied
Roger.

How go the rehearsals ?"

First-rate ; if she would only leave
it to me, and not go up to Balder Hall
after every lesson, to get a second
opinion."

Michael laughed a little sarcastically.

That must be flattering to your amour

propre, both as teacher and betrothed," he
said.

Very much so. Never mind ! When
we are wed, the Balder Hall alliance must
come to an end."

Now, I don't call that fair, but the
very reverse," said Michael emphatically.
She would have just as much right to goto
Miss Wynter and say, ' Never mind !
When we are wed, the Red Gables alliance
must come to an end.' "

Oh no ! There's a great difference."

Yes, there is. There is the difference
that you could make her give up Miss
Wynter, and that she could not make you
give up me."

No one makes me give up my friend,"
said Roger deliberately ; " neither wife nor
mistress, nor any one else. It is no true
wife's part to wish to separate her husband
and his friends."

A wife has the strictest right to say
the same thing with regard to her husband.

And you have not a shadow of right,
Roger, to say she shall not know Miss
Wy enter when she is married to you. If
you make it a sine qua non, you ought to
tell her so in advance."

You are very hot about it. I'd as

soon she had a serpent for a friend as "

He nodded expressively.

"Well, I say you have no right to say
so," said Michael, "and I recommend you
to think it over on your way down. You
talk about educating her where she is
deficient  poor little thing ! but it isn't
education to say ' you shall ' and ' you
shall not.' "

You may be right," said Roger deliberately.
" Only, please, do me the
justice to own that I did not say how I
should stop the alliance. I only said it
should come to an end. There is such
a thing as persuasion."

Oh, if you are going to get out of it
in that way "

Good night," said Roger amiably.
Don't leap so readily to conclusions
another time."

With which he went out, leaving Michael
laughing to himself.

The latter had once again to turn out
in the raw November air, to see some
patients in the town. As he returned, he
passed the shop of Mr. Dixon, the Brad-stane
stationer, and looking up, saw a
bright light burning behind the red curtains
of the windows on the second story.
Distant sounds of music also came to his
ears. He smiled and sighed, both at once;
and in his mind there were running
thoughts, almost identical with those which
Roger Camm had thought of Michael's own
engagement, eight years ago, to Magdalen
Wynter.

If she is the girl to make him happy,
well and good. But I wish he had chosen
differently. He talks about marrying into
his own sphere  such bosh ! Small shopkeepers

are not his sphere, let him say
what he likes. If Ada Dixon had been
a squire's daughter, I suppose he would
have discovered that after all he was a
clergyman's son, and a gentleman, her
social equal. Now it suits him better to
call himself a working man, and say that
like must wed like, to be happy. It is
a pity ; he might have had a career, only
she drags him back."

He called at Dr. Rowntree's, and had
half an hour's chat with the old man ; then
back to his own house, his pipe, and a
treatise on some new surgical experiments
with which it behoved him to make
acquaintance.

VOL. 11. 22

CHAPTER III.

ROGER Came's COURTING.

Roger Camm, in the mean time, had carried
himself, with his roll of music in his
hand, to see his betrothed at her father's
house, and was having a less delightful
time of it, perhaps, than Michael pictured
to himself.

The Dixon manage had in no way
fallen off, either in substantial internal
comfort or in outward vulgarity and pretentiousness.
Mrs. Dixon was even more
bent upon rising in the world than her
husband : he still adhered to the legitimate
means by which a man may get on,
by steady attention to his business and

judicious retail impositions, which, when
counted up at the end of the year, generally
amounted to a nice little wholesale
sum. Mrs. Dixon had, however, advanced
in breadth of view as years had passed.
She held by the doctrine that children
were bound to help their parents, and
she looked to Ada to help them in pushing
the family fortunes.

Mr. Dixon was what himself and his
neighbours called a warm man, but he
was cautious about bragging of his comfortableness
and his competence. He
looked the brag instead of speaking it.
He had exalted views as to his own
position and importance, but they were
tempered by a strong mixture of the
strictest and sternest common sense.

Ada had returned to them just before
she was seventeen, nearly two years ago,
a finished young lady, playing the piano,
singing, drawing (from anything but
nature), and with a smattering of execrable

French. She had a thousand airs and
graces, a fine contempt for her father's
business, and a meritorious sense of shame
whenever it was mentioned in her hearing,
and she was exceedingly and undeniably
pretty.

There had been great discussions as to
the part Ada was to take in the establishment
when she left school. Mr. Dixon
fell in with the wifely resolve that their
child should never go behind the counter 
he quite understood that she was neither
designed nor finished for anything of the
kind. But his transports in other respects
fell short of those of his consort.

I don't see," he observed, after Ada
had been a few months at home, " that
she does much that's useful, or ever goes
into the kitchen, or makes a pudding "
(infallible criterion of feminine value and
worth to a certain order of masculine
mind), " or her own clothes ; and yet she
often seems to me to have a deal of time

on her hands that she doesn't quite know
what to do with ; and as for money, she
has no notion of the value of it. It's
awful."

And how should she, I should like to
know?" asked Mrs. Dixon indignantly.
A child like her ! She'll learn fast
enough. And then I expect her to marry
well. I don't know who outfit to if she
ought not."

You have to marry very high up
indeed to have no need ever to think of
money or housekeeping."

I shall teach her what's necessary,
of course. And you wrong her, Dixon,
when you say she does no dressmaking.
I'm sure she's most industrious. The
time she spends in her room, altering
things, and trying them on  both hats
and bonnets, and dresses too. If you
could see her, you'd say no more."

Perhaps I should be too much
astonished," said Dixon, with a gleam

of his native Yorkshire shrewdness.
There's such a thing as thinking too
much of dress, and I'm afraid our
Ada "

Drat the man ! " said Mrs. Dixon,
very sharply. " Will nothing satisfy him ?
First he grumbles that she doesn't do her
dressmaking, and then he grumbles that
she does. It's just like a man. Either
they are up in the clouds, or they are
down in the depths, or "

That's the shop," said Mr. Dixon,
feigning to hear the bell, and alertly
running away.

Can't he see?" Mrs. Dixon said,
within herself, when she was left alone.
Ada will marry a gentleman, of course.
She's as pretty as she can be, and a
wonderful taste in ' dress, and a perfect
lady in manners, and with Miss Wynter
for her friend, and constantly going upto
see her. Miss Wynter sees the best
of society. Besides, I've seen the gentlemen

look at her, many a time. Didn't
I hear Mr. Gilbert Langstroth, the very
last time he was here, say to her, quite
respectfully, ' Why, Miss Dixon, I
wondered what beauty had taken up
her winter quarters in Bradstane ' ? And
Dixon pretending that Mr. Langstroth
is always sneering at people, and that he
would never have said such a thing to any
lady, or anywhere where it could be taken
seriously ! And him that sees such high
society in London ! And Mr. Askam 
didn't he say to me, ' How's your lovely
daughter, Mrs. Dixon ? I hear she's
turning all the young men's heads'? It's
true Mr. Askam has a free and easy way
with him, and they say he means no goodby
any girl he pays compliments to; but
then it was me he spoke to  not Ada.
Straws show which way the wind's blowing,
and I say there's no knowing what
may happen."

Time passed, and neither of the gentlemen

whom Mrs. Dixon had thought of
became more marked in their attentions.
Nay, what with Ada's magnificence, and
the scarcity of matches, worthy her consideration,
there were even mortifications
in store for the maternal ambition. It
was a distinct if not an acknowledged
mortification when Mary Metcalf, a quiet-looking
girl, with three sisters under her 
such a family of them,  a girl with no
beauty to boast of, and not a scrap of
fashionable education ; a girl Ada's own
age to a day, and who had once been her
playfellow  got engaged to one of the
most well-to-do young farmers in all
the country round. Not that Ada would
have listened for a moment to any farmer
but a gentleman-farmer, and of course
young Simpson would never have had
the audacity to ask her. (Whether from
bashfulness or other reason, it is quite
certain that young Simpson never did
ask her.) And yet, it was distinctly mortifying

to sit in one's pew, and hear
Mr. Johnson read out the banns of James
Simpson and Mary Metcalf. No one
grudged Mary a good husband, poor girl ;
but Ada  it really seemed as if, in the
proper order of things, Ada should have
come first.

While the coming gentleman of high
degree tarried, Roger Camm appeared
upon the scene, and very soon made it
manifest that he had the audacity, not
only to love, but to declare himself.
Ada, to Mrs. Dixon's severe disappointment,
was much pleased, charmed, nay,
self-complacent. Mrs. Dixon alone was
really against the match, saying many
disparaging things of the suitors appearance,
position, and prospects, and of
everything connected with him ; and persisting,
with the tenacity of a weak and
vain woman about her favourite object,
that if they would only wait, Ada would
do much better.

Mr. Dixon was very firm.

"Ada could not do much better," he
said. " I couldn't have wished a better
husband for her : he's strong, and he's
clever, and he knows what he is about.
They trust him absolutely, his employers
do. He's making an uncommonly good
thing out of those jute factories down the
river, and if he isn't a partner in the concern
within a few years, my name is not
Simon Dixon. I wouldn't force the girl,
but she tells me she wants him, and if so
she shall have him ; and thankful I am for
her to do so well. So let's hear no more
about it."

No more was said about it, openly ; but
Mrs. Dixon rebelled in secret. She knew
Dixon too well to oppose him overtly, but
she thought to herself that Ada and Roger
were not married yet. She disliked him
heartily : his awkward gait, his rough
ways ; his habit of laughing at her notions
about gentility ; the queer, rude things he

said. And, above all, he galled her by
insisting upon calling himself a workingman,
and telling Ada how she was going
to be a working man's wife.

As if I brought her up for that ! " the
mother indignantly thought. He was justa
bear, she felt, and about as fit as a bear
to marry their Ada.

The engagement had now been going
on for six months, and the marriage, it
was thought, should not take place for
another year. Roger did not rebel against
this. Loving Ada with his whole soul,
and as unselfishly as man could love, he
yet saw very clearly that her love for him
was not as his love for her. He was sure
that gentleness, and kindness, and the
educating influence of companionship and
gradually growing sympathy, would teach
her this love  as he had said to Michael,
he had to educate her in some things (in
the very art or nature of unselfish love,
could he but have known it) ; and with a

kind of sublime patience and sublime
blindness, which might have been ridiculous
if they had not been utterly pure of
selfishness, he calmly set himself to wait
out the year that had yet to elapse, and
another after it, if necessary, and in that
time to teach Ada to love him as he loved
her. The process was not an exhilarating
one ; the effort was based upon the assumption
of an impossibility  the assumption,
namely, that such love can be taught.
But Roger did not know this.

Just now he and Ada had found a
pastime in which both had something in
common. They were rehearsing songs fora
concert at which the amateur talent of
the neighbourhood was to display itself for
the benefit of the church schools, and
incidentally for the pride and delight of its
own soul and the edification of the neighbourhood
at large. This great event
always took place in the month of December,
and on this occasion Ada was for the

first time to appear on the platform. She
was to sing in a duet with her patroness,
Miss Wynter, and Roger was to play the
accompaniment for them.

Despite this congenial occupation, Roger
and his betrothed this evening had several
differences of opinion. Ada was excited
about her visit to Balder Hall, related
every incident that had occurred, and
every word that had been spoken thereafter
her own arrival upon the scene ;
dwelling upon them with persistency 
describing minutely Miss Askam's appearance,
voice, and gestures, and especially
her graciousness in coming and standing
by her, Ada Dixon, while she sang. Also
Magdalen's dress, and Otho's long conversation
with her, and the new-fashioned
table-covers which Miss Wynter had on
her small tea-table. All this was inexpressibly
galling to Roger, who hated what
he called " that lot," with an uncompromising
scorn. He would have had Ada

stand as coolly aloof from them as he did
himself, but she would not. Balder Hall
and its inmates and visitors were to him
the abode of a false woman, unworthy of
consideration, and the rendezvous of her
intimates. To Ada, on the contrary,
Balder Hall was the fairy palace where, to
speak metaphorically, the roofs were of
gold and the windows of diamonds ; the
woman in it was her ideal of beauty, elegance,
fashion, and superiority in general,
and the woman's friends and acquaintances
were other bright apparitions belonging
to the same enchanted sphere.
She was very eloquent to-night, partly
because she wished to provoke Roger,
partly because her mind was quite filled
with the afternoon's entertainment. He
could, as he said, get neither rhyme nor
reason from her, and when he returned to
the Red Gables, earlier than usual, there
was a cloud on his brow.

CHAPTER IV.

A WILD-GOOSE CHASE.

It was nearly a fortnight later, and the
dusk of evening crept over everything.
From the window of her sitting-rooms
facing south, with a little inclination to
west, Eleanor could catch a glimpse of the
evening sky, but not of the setting sun
itself, which came but little north of west
at this time of the year. She could seethe
terraces, spreading downwards to the
river-side, and she had a partial view of
the stream itself, leaden in hue, but swift
in the race. The tall, heavy trees stood
motionless : one realized all the stateliness,
and with it all the melancholy, of the place.

For Thorsgarth had always been a melancholy
house.

Eleanor sat in the embrasure of the
window, with a half-open book in her lap,
It had grown too dark to read any longer,
and she raised her eyes from the page
and looked out. As the gloaming fell, the
firelight gleamed out more strongly, but
it did not reach as far as where she sat,
and the cold light of the departing day
was all that fell upon her face. Perhaps
this cold light lent something to the impression
of sadness, and even of sternness,
which had overcast her countenance since
she had come home. Whether from that
cause or from some other, it was quite
certain that there was a certain expression
of sternness upon her lips ; the strength
and resolution which lay beneath her ripe
and gracious beauty had certainly stepped
to the front.

While she looked" forth, with this expression
deepening on her face, there came

a short, heavy knock upon the door ;
before she had time to answer, the curtain
was pushed aside, and Otho came in.

Otho ! " she exclaimed, for it was the
first time he had entered the room since
her arrival.

Good afternoon," he said, glancing
round. " What are you doing here, all
alone ? "

Reading Homer," said Eleanor
promptly, with a rather wicked gleam in
her eye. As she had expected, an expression
of slight alarm crossed Otho's
countenance. But he drew a chair forward
and sat down.

Is that how you amuse yourself here ? "
he asked.

One way," she replied rather curtly.
She had perceived, very shortly after
her arrival, that Otho was vexed with
her presence, and had resolved in consequence
to take her own course. He had
been disappointed to find that she never

VOL. II. 23

uttered a word as to the dulness of
Bradstane or its want of society, nor ever
mentioned any idea of deserting it.
Women with " resources within themselves
" were, of course, an unknown
species to Otho  he would vaguely have
called them " blues," if asked for his views
on the subject. His sister must be a blue ;
and after a moment given to reflection on
the situation, he burst into a short, rough
laugh.

Ha, ha ! No wonder that you and
Magdalen don't get on. And if that's the
sort of thing you have a fancy for, you
never will. She's clever, deucedly clever,
is Magdalen, but it isn't in the dead
languages that she excels." And he
laughed again, as if some inner thought
greatly diverted him,

"If she troubles herself as little as I
do whether we get on or not, she will be
very indifferent about it," said Eleanor,
annoyed in a truly girlish fashion at thus

having " Magdalen," always thrust at
her.

Jealous ! " said Otho, with his great
guffaw, rubbing his hands together.

Eleanor felt her face in a flame.

Jealous  of that woman ! " was the
thought in her mind, but she had self-control
enough to let it remain a thought.
She merely smiled.

Did you learn nothing but Greek,"
pursued Otho, " when you were at college
? "

Why, of course, you goose. What
would be the use of learning nothing but
Greek ? "

"Well, I certainly never could see the
use of learning it  for me, at any rate,"
said Otho. " But I mean, didn't you go
in for French, and music, and those
things ? "

Well, I should hardly ask such a
question as that. One ' goes in,' as you
call it, for French as naturally as for

Mary '
:RSITY OF 

English. Aunt Emily always had some
French person or other about. But Greek
was a labour of love."

"It seems to me that you must be what
they call a blue," said Otho vaguely.

Does it ? I'm not conscious of being
of a different complexion from other young
women. Aunt Emily, poor dear, thought
the reverse. She considered that I was
brought up too much with Paul, and
altogether too like a boy. She always
said that if I had mixed more with girls
I should have been more alive to  oh,
well, she thought it would have been
better for me."

She thought that if you had been a bit
more like other girls, you wouldn't have
let that parson slip, but would have
married him instead of coming rambling
off here, where you don't know a creature,
and have to pass your time reading the
Iliad ; ' and I can tell you I agree with
her," said Otho.

Let him slip ? I never tried to catch
him," said Miss Askam, touchy, despite
her masculine education, upon this point.

I never said you did," remarked Otho.
However, I'm glad you are intellectual
and independent, for now I need not
apologize for leaving you alone. I'm
going away this evening."

Are you ? Where ? "

Oh, over into Friarsdale, on business.
I don't know when I shall be back.
Some time before Christmas, of course,
because Gilbert will be here then. You'll
have to do as well as you can."

I shall do very well, thank you. I
shall return a few of those numerous calls
I have received. I like some of the
people very much. I don't think they
look so dangerous as you seemed to think
them. But, of course, tastes differ. And
on the first fine day I intend to have a
ride."

Yes, do. And William will attend to

you  the boy you have had before. I've
given orders for him to be at your service
whenever you want to go out. He's a
steady lad, and understands all my horses.
And I think you couldn't do better than
keep to ' Dalesman,' Eleanor, for riding.
He's a perfectly safe lady's horse, and yet
he's spirited."

I liked him very much when I had him
before. . . . Isn't evening an odd time to
be setting off on a journey? Where is
this Friarsdale that you speak of ? "

Oh, I shall only go to Darlington tonight,
and put up with a fellow I know
there. Then I shall drive on into Friars-dale
tomorrow."

He still had not told her where it was,
she noticed, nor what he wanted there.
She was not going to ask again, and ina
short time Otho said he must be off,
wished her good afternoon, and departed.
He had gone in intending to recommend
her to cultivate Miss Wynter's society, but

the conversation which had taken place
had caused him to abandon this design.

Magdalen and she will never get on.
I shall leave them both to it. It's plain tome
that Eleanor is no fool in some things,
whatever she may be in others ; but I
verily believe she'd sooner have old Lady
Winthrop for a chum, or one of those
charity-blanket Blundell girls, than Magdalen."


In which surmise Otho was perfectly
correct.

It's a rum sort of thing altogether," he
reflected. " I shall ask Gilbert what he
thinks about it."

It was on the following day that Eleanor,
looking forth, decided that there was a
change in the weather, which decidedly
entitled her to the ride she had spoken of
to Otho. The clouds had parted, and the
blue smiled forth, and the sun lent his aid
to enliven the prospect. Eleanor promptly
ordered her horse to be saddled and

brought round immediately after an early
lunch. In obedience to this order, it appeared,
and she was ready for it shortly
before two o'clock. She found the lad
William holding her horse, and Barlow,
the old butler, standing at the door.
William, it is necessary to state, was nota
native of Bradstane, nor, indeed, of Tees-dale
at all, but of Swaledale, to the south,
of which locality he was very proud, and
concerning which he was in the habit of
relating many tales of wonder. It was a
subject on which his mistress already loved
to draw him out, and he was nothing loath
to discourse upon it. He had begun to
plume himself amongst the other servants
on being Miss Askam's own retainer, and
would have felt bitterly injured had she
selected any one but himself as her
attendant.

She told old Barlow that she did not
expect to be back much before five, and
he, by reason of long service, and in the

capacity of " friend of the family," took
upon himself to ask if he might venture
to inquire in which direction she thought
of riding.

Oh yes, Barlow, you had, perhaps,
better know. I think of going round by
Cotherstone, to a place called Catcastle."

It's a very wild country, miss," said
Barlow, with a look of alarm. " A very
bleak road, indeed, Miss Askam, for a
winter's day."

It is not like a winter's day this afternoon,
and I shall do nothing rash, you
may be sure," she said, repressing with a
little feeling of guiltiness the further information
that " romantic Deepdale's
slender rill " had taken such hold on her
imagination, that after carefully consulting
an ordnance map, and finding that all the
three places  Cotherstone, Catcastle, and
Deepdale  were within a circuit of ten
miles, she had resolved to see them that
afternoon.

I don't think Mr. Askam would quite
approve," began Barlow, with an anxious
look.

Oh, Mr. Askam is away," said Eleanor
wilfully. " And, Barlow, be sure to have
some tea quite ready by five o'clock, for
I am sure I shall want it very badly when
I get in."

So saying, she chirped to her horse, and
it carried her quickly round the bend in the
drive, William following her. Barlow stood
at the door, and shook his venerable head.

A real Askam for wilfulness," he said
within himself, " but as sweet as an angel
in temper. Eh, dear ! If poor dear Mr.
Otho was but a bit more like her ! I don't
know where he'll end, I'm sure."

Shaking his head with the true Jeremiah
shake of an old retainer who sees his most
cherished prejudices overridden by a new
generation, Barlow closed the hall-door
and retired to his own quarters.

Eleanor rode quickly forth, feeling the

air and the sunshine thrill through her,
and rejoice her very soul. She lifted her
beautiful face upwards towards the field of
blue  albeit a pale November blue, one
could see the colour it was meant for  and
inhaled the fresh, westerly breeze, which
had in it, could she have understood its
feel," a promise of north in the not distant
future.

They trotted briskly through Bradstane
town, past the shops, and up the cobble-stoned
street, sharply on through long,
unlovely Bridge Street, and so over the
old stone bridge under the castle crag,
and upon a road on the Yorkshire side of
the river, leading through the village of
Warrington to that of Cotherstone.

Is that building a church, William ? "
she asked, pointing to one with her whip.

Yes, miss," he replied, riding up and
touching his hat.

I think it is the smallest one I ever
saw," she remarked.

By your leave, miss, I have seen one,
and been in it, not above half the size  at
Lunds," he said, his eyes growing round,
and his face red, from which signs Miss
Askam knew infallibly that he had a tale
of wonder to unfold.

"Indeed; and where is Lunds?" she
asked.

"If you please, miss, on Abbotside Common,
going from Hawes to Hell Gill,  to
Kirby Stephen, that is ; it lies off on the
common, to the right. 'Tis a rare small
'un ; and there was another peculiar thing
about it, too."

What was that ? "

"Well, the folk about was poor, vary
poor invade ; and they couldn't afford a
bell. So for many a year th' sexton used
to climb to t' top of th' church  'twere
such a vary life church, you see  wi' a tin
can full o' stones in's hand, and wi' that
he used to shake it to and fro, so as to
mak' the stones rattle, and a' called out

at same time, ' Boll-loll, boll-loll, boll-loll
! ' at top of his voice while t' congregation
got all come in, and then he clam-met
down again, and went in hissed !
That were instead of a bell, you know ;
they couldn't get the money to buy one.
Ay, Lunds church was known for miles
around."

I should think so," said Miss Askam,
laughing. " Do you know of any more
customs like that ? "

No, ma'am ; except there was another
vary small church where there was a queer
habit, more like than a custom "

Indeed," said she, amused within herself
at the distinction.

A vary life one it was, too, i' Lang-rochdale
"

11 Lanestrothdale  where's that ? " she
asked quickly.

On the other side o' Cam Fell, miss.
They do say that that's where the doctor's
and Mr. Gilbert's family first came fro',

and that they're not Durham at all, but
Yorkshire. I reckon doctor deserves to
be a Yorkshireman, choose what Mr.
Gilbert "

Never mind about that. What of the
little church ? "

Only that th' congregation there was
vary poor too, and it was a door as they
were in want of,  just like i' Lunds they
could get a bell. So, when service was
o'er, they used to stick a big thorn in th'
doorway, to fill it up ; but shape " (the
sheep) " used to get in in t' winter weather,
and make a shelter of it ; and they had to
be cleared out regular, every Sunday'  that's
all, miss," said William, exhausted with
his two prolonged narrative efforts, and
falling into his place behind again.

Eleanor rode on, smiling to herself at
the picture of the man who shook a tin
can full of stones, and cried " boll-loll "
from the top of the church to summon
the congregation. He must have had

lusty lungs, she thought, that Yorkshire
sexton.

Cotherstone was safely reached about
three o'clock, and Eleanor must ride down
to the river, and see where Balder emptied
his waters into Tees, and repeat to herself


Then Balder, one bleak garth was thine ;
And one sweet brooklet's silver line."

The " sweet brooklet " was just then rushing
onwards, muddy and swollen, in anything
but a silver line. Eleanor turned
back, and finding that William's knowledge
of the country here became rather misty,
made inquiries in the village as to the
nearest way to " Catcastle Crag."

Visible astonishment arose upon the
countenance of the rustic whom she addressed
 an elderly labourer, who made
answer, after the wary manner of the
English of the north 

It's a vary rough road to Catcastle."

"Is it ? Well, would you tell me the
nearest way ?"

Your horse won't go within half a mile
of the crag."

Well, I would like to know how you
get within half a mile of the crag, if you
will please to tell me the nearest way."

Nearest road is o'er yonder," was the
reply, accompanied by a sweep of a long
and stalwart arm, which sweep might embrace
some fifteen or twenty miles of
country.

Eleanor laughed, and after some difficulty
induced her informant so far to
commit himself as to mention one or two
roads by name, which thing he did very
reluctantly ; but she gathered from what
he said that she had " three miles and a
piece " to ride, not continuing on the same
road, but always keeping to the left whenever
cross roads came, and that by doing
this she would arrive as near Catcastle
Crag as her horse would take her ; while

by skirting round it, still to the left, she
would come to a road leading to Deepdale,
and thence home.

But," observed her interlocutor with
a look of tolerant pity, " I think it's something
of a fool's errand, of a day like this.
Wind's changing, and we'll have frost
before midnight."

Eleanor thanked him, and set off
cheerily, thinking with a smile that the
tea would have to wait till after five
o'clock, and that she hoped Barlow would
not be worrying his old head about her,
or sending in all directions to meet her.

The three miles " and a piece " proved
exceedingly like the " mile and a bittock "
of story. That is, the three miles were
presently accomplished, but the "piece"
stretched far before them, and the light
was no longer so clear as it had been.
Moreover, the wary peasant's prophecy
was being fulfilled with a startling promptness.
The wind had already shifted, and

VOL. II. 24

was blowing from the north, almost in her
face, keen and piercing. Every cloud had
disappeared, and the sky was of a crystalline
clearness, ominous of coming frost ;
and still Catcastle Crag  though they
could see what Eleanor imagined must be
that remarkable eminence  grew no nearer.
They seemed to have got round it, and
it still kept provokingly to their left, with
the road, and several fields, and a thicket
between them and it.

I suppose," said Eleanor within herself,
" that they call this part of the road
a ' piece,' because they have no numbers
with which to count its length in miles."
She had grown thoughtful. Dusk had
fallen over her high spirits, as well as over
the landscape.

At length she called William, and said
she thought they had better leave the crag
and keep to the homeward road, a proposition
to which he yielded a cheerful assent,
and fell back into his place. Eleanor rode

on ; she supposed they were on the right
road, but it wound on and on without
seeming to lead to anywhere in particular.
She was sure, from what she remembered
of the map, that they ought to be at Deep-dale
before now. Deepdale, she knew,
was a wood. But here was no sign of any
wood to be seen. The road was a bare,
bleak road, with a rough stone wall on
either side, a road which must have been
dreary and monotonous at any season ; but
which now, in the grim November evening,
with the dusk rapidly falling  not a sound
to be heard but the faint piping of a bitter
wind from the black wall of fells to the
north ; not a sight to be seen save the
bare fields on either side, and at a little
distance a clump of trees  was melancholy
in the extreme ; and Eleanor, looking at
the frowning escarpments to the left, no
longer felt that her listed to

Climb Catcastle's giddy crag,"
as, before setting off, she had fondly hoped

to do ere her return. She was of a nature
at once poetical and highly imaginative,
and for all the hard, stony prose of the
road, there was something attractive to
her in the very bleakness and chillness of
it ;  that faintly moaning wind seemed to
whisper that it came from the north, that
it had its cradle in the ultimate Thule,
where its breath was more piercing even
than here.

She felt all the force of the contrast to
this scene which was presented by the
sudden appearance of a light, gleaming
out of the clump of trees before spoken of.

Oh," she said quickly, " there must bea
house behind those trees  some place,
at any rate, where we can ask if we are in
the right road to Bradstane."

She rode on, and they presently stopped
at the door of a wayside farmer, if such a
term be admissible. William knocked, and
a young woman, with a gentle, handsome
countenance, and in stature like some

female Hercules, came to the door, looked
at them with astonishment in her great
clear gray eyes, and asked to know their
will.

Eleanor preferred her request for information
as to whether they were on the
right road for Bradstane ; she said not a
word now of Catcastle.

For Bradstane ! Eh, what ! but ye're
mony a mile out o' t' straight road," was
the reply, which struck dismay into her
hearer.

On further investigation, however, it
turned out to be not so bad as had seemed
at first. They must keep straight on for
half a mile till they came to the Balder
Beck, which they would have to ford, and
then they would be in the right road, and
five miles away from Bradstane.

Straight along, do we go ? and is the
beck deep ? " asked Eleanor, thinking of
the darkness.

Straight down this lane. Deep ?  nay,

you needna be afeard  not a little bit, you
needna. It's no a bad ford ;  a bit swollen
with th' rains just now, but safe enough.
I'd show you th' way, only my child's ill,
and I canna lave it. But you cannot go
wrong. And th' doctor's not been gone
five minutes. Happen you may light on
him in th' lane, and then, if you're in doubt,
you might ask him. He kens all th'
roads rarely,  both them that's bad and
them that's good."

Thank you," said Eleanor, not deriving
so much comfort from this suggestion as
the woman seemed to think would be
natural ; for during her short residence in
Bradstane she had not been left ignorant
of the relations between Michael Lang-troth,
his brother, her brother, and Magdalen
Wynter. The version of the story
given to her by the latter had been supplemented
by revised ones, explained and
annotated in a very different spirit.
Eleanor felt that, taken all in all, she

would prefer not to overtake Dr. Lang-troth.


It was not, however, very likely that
they would do so, for he would probably
ride on quickly, being, as the woman said,
well acquainted with all the roads ; whereas
they had to go very slowly, being ignorant
of them, and the dark fast falling.

She wished the woman good-night, and
rode on. Presently they came in sight of
the ford, or, at any rate, of the beck which
they had to ford at this juncture. It was
rushing along, brown, noisy, and swollen,
and Eleanor, though a hardy horsewoman,
drew back a little as she saw it. Which,
and where might be the ford ? Whether
to venture across, or to return all the
dreary way they had ridden  ten miles or
more ? As she paused, debating, her eyes
strained through the dusk on the other
side ; she almost hoped, now, that she
might see a figure ; but there was nothing
except some gaunt trees, and as for sounds,

the rattle of the beck drowned them all in
the noise it made.

Tired of reflecting, and noticing a broad
mark, as if wheels had here entered the
stream, and a corresponding one on the
other side, showing that they had safely
emerged from it, Eleanor put her horse at
the water, telling William to wait till she
was across. The boy was not old enough,
nor possessed of sufficient self-confidence,
to make the lady pause till he had tried
the ford himself ; he felt unhappy, but did
as he was told. She found herself in a
moment in the midst of the roar and the
darkness. About the middle of the stream,
her horse displayed an evident desire to
diverge to the right hand, down-stream.
Eleanor, seeing the cart-tracks faintly on
the other side, a little to the left, and bewildered
with the rush and the noise and
the swirl of the waters, became somewhat
confused, and persisted in pushing the
animal's head up-stream. In a moment

her horse plunged into a hole, so deeply
that she felt the water washing round her
own knees. She gave an involuntary
short cry, and heard a loud despairing 

Oh, Lord, miss, what shall I do ? "

The tragic utterance restored her to
herself. She gave her horse his head, and
he, after another wild plunge or two, and
a desperate, scraping scramble, succeeded
in pulling himself up and taking his own
way ; went first a little to the right, and
then a little to the left, and emerged in
the cart-track.

Her servant, following, came through
high and dry, but with chattering teeth.

What is the matter ? Are you afraid ?"
she asked, and was much astonished to
hear the only answer he gave  a piercing
view - halloo. There was a moment's
silence, then the halloo was answered from
some distance before them, and William,
saying, " You bide here a minute, miss,"
rode on.

What can he be thinking of ? " she
speculated, in some annoyance. " Leaving
me here in the cold ! I shall follow him."

It was a good resolution, but not easy
to carry out. She began to feel the cold
stealing over every limb, while her soaked
habit hung down, and seemed like a mass
of ice, dragging her downwards. She
could now see only a glimmer of the surrounding
country, and the angry beck 
black, flecked with specks of white, rushing
and roaring* as it seemed to her with redoubled
force. A feeling of fright and
alarm at the loneliness of it, the darkness
and the wildness, overcame her. She felt
herself trembling in every limb. A wild
suspicion that William had taken flight,
and did not intend to return, seemed to
turn her to stone.

She jerked the reins, putting her horse
at the little bank she had to climb, with
the idea that the motion of riding would
restore the circulation to her benumbed

limbs ; but it did not. She felt the cold
seize her very vitals ; unconsciously she
slipped from her seat, crying out almost
without knowing it, " William ! "

Her own voice sounded hoarse and far
off, yet she dimly heard sounds of other
horses coming rapidly towards her, vaguely
beheld a rider  two riders, glimmering on
her sight. Then she heard a voice say,
Miss Askam ! " in tones of astonishment,
saw a man vault from his horse  all in
vague, magnified proportions ; and then
for two or three moments she was so cold
that she knew nothing at all.

CHAPTER V.

INEVITABLE.

Michael, after leaving the cottage of the
tall young woman with the sick child, and
delaying a little, to let his horse drink
from the beck, had safely crossed the ford
which had proved so disastrous to Eleanor,
and was riding peaceably and slowly. In
his life there had always been present one
negative blessing which he had not perhaps
recognized with the active gratitude
which it deserved ; he had implanted in
his heart a love of Nature and of her
things  a keen recognition of the beauty
of every season and every weather. He
was not in the habit of talking about it ;
perhaps he did not know himself how



strong it was  how fundamental a part of
his mental constitution it formed. But it
was there, and it was manifested in the fact
that oftentimes, though wearied and busy,
he could not force himself to ride onwards
in haste, even over the roads that were
very familiar to him ; could not neglect
to notice the page that was silently and
lovingly spread for him by that friend who
never did betray the heart that loved her."
Even on an afternoon like this, he found
time to go slowly, and receive the silent
influence of the scene into his heart ;. and
did not refuse to let the brooding solemnity
of the darkening sky, or the
hopeful whisper of the stealing wind, tell
their tale to him.

It was this vagrant humour, this unconfessed
unwillingness to desert the
ample exterior nature for the shelter and
confinement of a roof and walls, which had
caused him to be so little advanced on the
road, that a loud halloo came distinctly to

his ear ; and after waiting a moment to
hear if it should be any preconceived
signal, he concluded it to be a cry for help,
and answered it, turning back down the
lane towards the ford. In a few moments
he was met by the ingenuous William,
panting, and presenting an appearance of
extreme disorder.

What's the matter ? Was it you who
called ? "

Yes, sir, if you phase, sir, Miss Askam
is nearly drowned ; leastways, her horse
had a very bad tumble in th' ford. A
woman told us you was on afore, and I
made bold to call upon you."

Michael made no answer, but rode back
to the ford, as fast as the darkness and
the rough road would allow him. His
keen eyes, well accustomed to search the
country by this doubtful light, discerned
the form of a woman on horseback ; he
saw that she drooped and wavered, and
he heard the half-inarticulate cry she gave.

He sprang from his horse just in time to
catch her as she slipped from her saddle,
and in so doing he discovered that her
riding habit was dripping, and heavy as
lead with the icy water with which it was
filled. He wasted no time in wondering
how she had got there, but placed her on
a large rough boulder, behind which was
the trunk of a great old thorn tree, affording
some support to her back, and he felt
with one hand in his pocket for his flask,
while he held her up with the other,

But before he had got the flask, she
had recovered from the momentary powerlessness
 it was not a faint  which had
overtaken her. She opened her eyes just
as William, in a hoarse and terrified
whisper, inquired 

Is she drowned, sir ?"

The youth was standing in a drooping
attitude between his mistress's horse and
his own, holding a rein of each, and
shivering with fear in every limb. It was

on him that Eleanor's eyes fell as she
opened them, and she gave a little convulsive
laugh.

How queer he looks ! " she said, raising
herself, and then stopping, as she saw
Michael.

There, I thought you were not so very
far gone," observed the latter with composure,
raising himself from his knee and
standing over her. " It was the cold, and
the shock. Not very nice in the middle
of the beck, I should fancy, was it ? "

Oh, horrid!" said Eleanor, shivering.
It is Dr. Langstroth, isn't it ? "

"It is Dr. Langstroth  yes," was the
dry reply. " You had better drink off
this," he added, pouring out some of the
brandy. " Then, if you can get on your
horse and ride on at once, you may feel
no bad effects." He proffered a prosaic
flask, in a business-like manner.

Eleanor swallowed the portion presented
to her with docility, and stood up.

I don't think I fainted," she remarked
thoughtfully ; " but I shall never forget
the coldness of that water when my horse
plunged into that hole."

I suppose you're not liable to colds
or coughs much ? " asked Michael, with
apparent indifference.

Oh dear, no ! I shall be all right, if I
can but wring some of the water from my
habit. It is so heavy with it."

She stood up, feeling quite strong ;
and while Michael screwed the top into
his brandy-flask, she raised her soaking
riding habit, and wrung out the water as
well as she could.

It is too bad that you should have
been troubled about this," she said, suddenly
stopping in her operations, as it all
at once flashed into her mind that he was
waiting there entirely on her account. " Is
my groom there ? William ! "

Yes, miss ! "

You should not have ridden away and

VOL. II. 25

left me. If you had waited a moment, I
should have been all right, and Dr. Lang-troth
need not have been detained."

Do not scold him," said Michael ina
low voice. " The poor lad is frightened
out of his senses. He thought you
were drowned, and wished for medical
assistance. His promptitude in calling for
it, and getting rid of responsibility "

The responsibility of this insane expedition
is mine," said Eleanor shortly, beginning
to realize the situation. " But,
indeed, Dr. Langstroth, do not let me keep
you here in the cold. We cannot miss
the road again, and I am ashamed to have
troubled you so much."

Do not be distressed on my account,"
said Michael calmly. He had restored
the flask to his pocket, and now he picked
up the gauntlets which she had pulled off
and thrown to the ground, and stood
watching her, in the ever-deepening twilight,
in silence, for sortie little time after

he had spoken. He felt something unreal
and dreamlike in the whole situation 
in the shadowy woman's figure, with its
quick, graceful movements ; in the surrounding
dark, the rushing stream, the
sharp night air. Eleanor said nothing to
him, for she felt somewhat embarrassed.
She did not wish to trouble him, but when
she thought of that five miles of a ride to
Bradstane, in the dark, with no guide but
William, her courage did not exactly rise.
She would have felt very well satisfied to
be ordered by a competent authority to
hold her tongue and do as she was bidden,
and it was this, in effect, which Michael did
tell her when he next spoke.

Here are your gloves "  he saw she
had wrung her habit as well as she could,
and he had noted, even in the dusk, the
beautiful curves and strong, flexible power
of her white hands and wrists  "there
are your gloves ; and when you have put
them on, the sooner we move forward
again, the better for you."

Yes, I am sure of that. I should very
soon be chilled to the bone again, if I stood
here," she said, drawing on her gloves, and
feeling a little thrill of pleased excitement
and wonder. " This is the second time
he has come to my help," she informed
herself, with accurate recollection of the
former circumstance.

Now shall I help you ? " said Michael,
in his coldest, most civil tone, as William
led up the horse. He held his hand for
her foot, and in a moment she was in her
saddle, remarking 

Now I shall be not a bit the worse."

Perhaps not," said Michael instinctively,
speaking with greater dryness and curtness
as he began to feel a sense of pleasure and
interest in the adventure and the heroine
of it. He liked her hardihood ; hardy
she was, for he knew pretty well that she
could not be feeling very warm or comfortable,
under the circumstances ; and the
sousing with cold water, and the shock and

danger of the accident would have been,
as he well knew, excuse enough for hysteria
and nervous attacks, in nine cases out often.
She was evidently no friend to such
demonstrations. He mounted his own
horse, and they started, William falling
behind, thankfully enough.

We shall go as far as the end of this
lane together ? " said Eleanor tentatively ;
but you must not let me take you further
out of your way."

My way is where I choose or need to
go," replied Michael carelessly. " I see
your groom has dropped behind, but if you
will allow me, I will just tell him to ride on
as fast as he can  even he cannot now very
well miss the way. He must see your
maid, and tell her to have lots of dry things
ready for you, and some hot tea or coffee ;
and then, perhaps, you may escape without
harm. Otherwise, I would not answer for
consequences."

"But "

Oh, of course I will ride home with
you," he answered to her unspoken objection.
" It will be all right."

Eleanorss high spirit failed to come to
her aid.

Thorsgarth is so much out of your
way," she said in a low tone.

Not when I choose to go there. Wait
a moment," he answered ; and stopping, he
called the groom up, gave him his directions
succinctly, and bade him ride on.
William touched his hat, spurred on, and
was soon out of sight in the glimmering,
shadowy light.

Eleanor heaved a deep, if silent sigh.
She had not given way under the shock
of her plunge into the cold water, nor,
except physically, and for a moment, afterwards
; but now something laid a strange
oppression over her heart. Michael was
very polite to her; he neglected not a
thing which could help her, even to this
forethought about acquainting her maid

with what had happened. She had
thought about him more than once during
the last fortnight ; had heard of him a
great deal oftener than once, chiefly from
Mrs. Parker, the old doctor's sister, with
whom she had become acquainted, and
from many others. All she had heard
had prepossessed her in his favour, but
now that she was with him, actually in
his presence, and as it were under his
guidance, for the time, she felt afraid of
him  felt a strange and painful constraint ;
was nervous, timid, tongue-tied. Womanlike,
she had the story of his slighted love
and his other wrongs, very large and very
much present in her mind ; and she credited
him with having them before himself in just
the same proportion. Then, too, his tone
was curt, if civil. It did not invite to anything
like friendly and familiar intercourse.
Civil, civil," repeated Eleanor in her
own mind. " Yes, indeed, ' civil as an
orange,' and  oh, if he would but speak ! "

He did, exactly at that moment.

I have ridden over this road for ten
years," he remarked, " and I may have met
an acquaintance on it, perhaps, three or four
times, and the hounds now and then. How
came you to be here ? "

I don't know myself how I got onto
this "road," said she, laughing a little
nervously. " But I know what I intended
to do when I set out." And then she
related to him the scheme of exploration
which had taken possession of her mind.

Michael was diverted at the idea of anyone
setting off on such an expedition with
no better guide than her recollections of
the ordnance map, and a groom who did
not know any of the cross roads.

Barlow, our butler, warned me against
the expedition," she added, when Michael
had once or twice laughed at her explanations.
" But I would not listen to him.
And I only told him about Catcastle. I
did not mention either of the other places."

No wonder he warned you," said
Michael, silently noting, however, with
approval, her independence of spirit.
Why, Catcastle alone is an excursion
for a summer's afternoon and evening. . . .
And well worth the time it is," he added,
half to himself. " But Deepdale ! You
evidently have not the faintest idea what
kind of a place it is. It's one of old
Drayton's ' Helbecks,' eerie enough at the
best of times, utterly impossible in weather
like this. I suppose it was its 'slender
rill,' which attracted your fancy ? "

Yes, it was, because it was  

1 Last and least, but loveliest still.' "

"Ha, ha! Yes

Romantic Deepdale's slender rill.'
It will be roaring away at the bottom of
the chasm, just now, in a manner a good
deal more vigorous than romantic."

Well, I think it is very disappointing.
I set off intending to see three places, and
I have not seen even one."

But have got a good drenching in
cold water instead. Don't you think you
might take it as an omen ? " said Michael,
mockingly still, for he was determined not
to allow himself to be interested in her ;
quite resolved not to yield to the pleasure
of giving his full appreciation to the music
of the round, fresh young voice, with its
soft southern accent, and unmistakable
sincerity of tone. Michael was more of a
connoisseur now, than he once had been,
in such items. And as for the wonder
which had just arisen in his mind  " what
is the charm about her ? "  that he felt was
a problem which it was quite outside of his
province to consider.

As an omen ! " she repeated sweetly.
Perhaps I might if I chose. I don't know
that I care much about the drenching."

Michael scarcely heard her. He was
thinking that he could not even call tomorrow
upon her, to ask her how she did.
Not that he was afraid of Thorsgarth, or

of Otho ; but simply because he had no
part or lot in the Askam clan. He was
separated from them for ever, by circumstances
which could never  no, never be
bridged over. Nothing could ever make
it possible for him to have anything todo
with them. And this girl by whose
side he was now riding, was Otho s sister,
and the present mistress of Thorsgarth.

I mean to see the places some other
day," her voice continued ; " and the drenching
does not alter the fact that Barlow
is an old man who potters about the house,
and is rather slow about his work, and that
I am a young woman, accustomed to take
long rides."

Alone, and in a rough country like
this, no doubt."

N  no. I must say I have never
before ridden alone in a country like this."

"Well," said Michael indifferently, and
more for something to say than for any
feeling he had about it, " it was not a safe

expedition, and I rather wonder that your
brother allowed it."

Oh, I know perfectly well that Otho
would not allow it, so I seized upon the
opportunity while he was away."

Ah, he is away ? "

Yes. He has gone to some place
called Friarsdale. I don't know where
that is. Can you tell me ? "

Easily. It is over beyond Swaledale
and Wensleydale ; a good way off, and
very out of the way ; but, of course, that
makes it all the better fitted for your
brothers purpose. It is a good place
for the stables, and capital exercise for
the "

Stables ! " echoed she quickly. " Has
Otho got stables there ? "

The training stables, I mean. He has
some splendid yearlings there. You should
get him to take you over to see them  if
you care for horses, that is."

But, Mr. Langstroth, you do not mean

to tell me that Otho has anything to do
with racing  my brother ? Oh, well, I
have heard that he took an interest in
the turf as they call it ; but in a racing
stable  impossible ! "

Michael suppressed a " whew ! " of sheer
astonishment. The natural reply to the
question, and the one which he would have
made to any man, would have been to
laugh, and say, " Oh, hasn't he, though ? "
But he remembered himself in time, and,
after a moment's pause, said, " Oh, didn't
you know ? I thought every one was
acquainted with that fact. It is certainly
no secret ; only I rather think you are
mixing up two things. Your brother's
place is not what one would call a ' racing
stable '  that is, it is not a place where
they train race-horses. They breed horses
there for racers, and sell them. It is a
purely business kind of thing. I'm surprised
you have not happened to hear of
it, because his stables are very well known,

though, it's true, not perhaps in your world,
up to now."

But," said Eleanor anxiously, her mind
apparently fixed on one point, " he doesn't
race with them, does he ? "

With the horses ? " said Michael, laughing,
in spite of himself. "He has not run
one of his own, so far; but I believe he
intends to at the next Derby, and some
people say that Crackpot will be the
favourite."

Crackpot  is that the horse's name ? "
asked Eleanor, in the tone with which one
speaks of some extremely ugly and repulsive
thing, so that Michael again smiled
to himself in the dark.

"Yes," he said. "He's called after a
waterfall in Swaledale, noted for its swiftness."


Eleanor did not smile at the joke, if
joke it were.

It seems," thought Michael, " that I
have opened her eyes in an unexpected

manner  by accident. Who was to suppose
that she could be so exceedingly
simple as never to gather what he was
after in Friarsdale ? If she's going to take
that so much to heart, I am afraid there
will be some other rather unpleasant surprises
in store for her."

At this point she broke in again, in a
voice which betrayed her uneasiness.

You speak as if you did not think
much of it, Mr. Langstroth ; but, surely,
that sort of thing is not for gentlemen."

My dear Miss Askam, you have got
quite a wrong impression, I assure you.
You must know that some very fine gentlemen
have to do with such things. The
only thing is, it is such a frightfully expensive
hobby, and "

It's a low kind of amusement, I think,"
she began.

"Not at all at least, not of necessity.
You must excuse me for contradicting you ;
but "

Well, if he keeps this place to get
money, why not turn horse-dealer at once ? "
said Eleanor resentfully.

Michael felt that extreme innocence can,
and does ask more awkward questions, in
perfect good faith, than the most hardened
wickedness could possibly devise. If he
had spoken the truth aloud, he would have
been obliged to say that the fact of being
a horse-dealer by profession could scarcely
be considered a reproach to a man, whatever
ignorant young ladies might think
on the subject ; but that in Otho Askam's
neck-frothing way of carrying on what
he was pleased to call his " business," there
was matter for reproach, and that, as a
matter of fact, a respectable horse-dealer
had the pull over the master of Thorsgarth,
as regarded character. But he could not
say this to Miss Askam, who evidently
considered the matter in another light  asa
low pursuit, namely,  one, perhaps, of
other low pursuits which her brother was

in the habit of following. It let a new
light into his mind as to her character and
her ignorance, and he followed a natural
impulse  the impulse to reassure her.

You really think quite too much about
it," he said lightly. " Every true Yorkshire
man  and every true border-man,
for that matter  has a strain of the jockey
in him. And when a man lives in the
country, and has his soul in country pursuits,
it is inevitable that horses should
come into the list."

That horses should come into the list ! "
repeated Eleanor, in the same tone of
mortification. " How many more things
come into the list of country pursuits ?
Running factories,' that is one  buying
shares : he told me that his friend, Mr.
Langstroth, kept him from plunging too
deep into that." She had forgotten who
was with her ; and as she uttered the next
words, a flash of lurid, hideous light seemed
to burn the meaning of it all into her

VOL. II. 26

brain. " Card-parties " Her breath

failed her for a moment. Michael never
forgot the voice with which she suddenly
asked him, with desperate, urgent haste,
Mr. Langstroth, for God's sake  is Otho
a gambler ? "

Michael hesitated for one moment. But
he knew he could not shirk the question.
So asked, it must be answered truly, however
cruel the blow.

I'm sorry you have asked me that
question," said he. " But there is only
one answer to it. He is a born gambler."

He awaited her next words with an
eagerness and anxiety which surprised himself,
and when no words came, he was
again surprised at the feeling of chill regret
which came over him. For Eleanor made
no answer whatever to his answer to her
question. The vibrating eagerness of her
voice, of the voice with which she had
asked if Otho were a gambler, was stilled.
In the darkness, which was now deep, they

rode on in drear, unbroken silence. What
she felt, what she thought, she did not
betray. She was not made of the stuff
that wails and laments over the discovery
that life is not a track of smooth grass,
warmed by unclouded sunshine.

Well," said Michael to himself, as this
silence grew more and more oppressive to
him ; " she asked the question. I had to
speak the truth. She must have learnt it
sooner or later. I can't imagine how it is
she has not found it out already. . . ."
Then an intense, eager wish. " If she
would only speak ! How she must hate
me ! Yes, she must hate me for telling
her that. How can she help ? I expect
she is wishing now that she had never
seen me. It's a pity for her that she
should have come up here, to be thrown
into the midst of such doings. Otho for
her brother, Magdalen for her friend, and
my brother  well, for Rami de la maison !
A nice company for her to be in. . . . And,

after all, what is it to me ? Only it's a
piece of cursed ill-luck that I should have
got mixed up with her at all. . I wish
she would speak."

But Eleanor did not speak for what
seemed a very long time, except when
Michael, who felt the silence absolutely
unbearable, said to her once, in a curt
tone, to cover his unhappiness, " Don't
you think we had better trot along this
road ? You will get cold if we go
too slowly." To which she replied ina
measured voice, " Yes, no doubt," and
at once put her horse into a trot, but made
no further remark.

This state of things continued until,
having made considerable progress, they
were going up the hill towards the old
bridge, and had about twenty minutes
more of a ride before them. Just as they
had reached the bridge and got into the
light, they met Roger Camm striding out
pf the town. He gazed with visible astonishment

at Michael and his companion,
raised his hat and passed on. Then
Eleanor spoke, quite quietly and composedly.


Is not that your friend, Mr. Camm ? "

Yes," said Michael, with a profound
sense of relief. " But, if I may ask, how
do you know he is my friend, and what do
you know of him ? "

I heard about him when Otho took
me to see Miss Wynter. And Miss Dixon
was there, too "

When was that ?" asked Michael.

"Why, the day after I came to Thorns
You were there when we called.
Don't you remember ? "

I remember that occasion perfectly ;
but it is a fortnight ago."

Well, I have never been since." Michael
raised his eyebrows. She had never
been since ! " Miss Dixon came before
we left," went on Eleanor. " She said
Mr. Camm was going out to fetch her

home. Miss Wynter told me you and he
were great friends."

Yes, Roger and I have knocked about
together a good deal. We know the best
and the worst of each other, I fancy ; and
if you can stick together after that it means
that you are friends."

Yes, I suppose so. He looks  he has
an original-looking face. Is he clever ? "

"Yes, he is very clever. He has a
career before him  at least "

At least ? "

I believe I was going to say he would
have, if he were not engaged to Ada
Dixon ; but I don't see that she need
hinder him so much, after all."

I do not know Mr. Camm, of course ;
but I should not imagine she was his
equal, if he is really a clever and able
man."

I fear you are right. But Roger has
crotchets, and one of them is, that he is a
working man. In a way, he is, as we all

are, or ought to be ; but his father was a
clergyman of the Church of England. He
is never going to be anything else, according
to his own theory ; and working men,
from what he says, must marry in their
own sphere, or else they will be always ina
false position, and 'getting into lumber
as he calls it."

Well, there may be a good deal in
that ; but from what I saw of Miss Dixon
that afternoon, I should think she was the
last person to be a suitable wife for a real
working man. She seemed to feel herself
quite outside anything of that kind."

tf Of course. She is outside anything of
that kind, practically. But Roger wants
to marry her, and, of course, theories are
elastic, under certain circumstances. I
suppose he was going out to Balder Hall
now, to fetch her home."

Yes," said Eleanor, and they did not
pursue the topic. They were now very
near Thorsgarth ; a few minutes more

brought them to its gates, and as they
rode up the avenue, Eleanor suddenly said,
in an extinguished voice 

How tired I am ! I never was so tired
in my life before."

He was silent. They stopped before
the door, over which burned a light.
Eleanor's hands dropped on her lap, as
she sat still and tired out. Michael dismounted
and came to her to lift her from
her horse.

Won't you ring ? " said she ; " then
they will send the men round, and save
you any more trouble."

Let me do my own way," said he, lifting
her down. For a moment, just one
moment, he held her in his arms, and as
the light fell upon her, he thought he had
never seen so sad and proud an expression
on any woman's face. Something rose in
his throat for a moment. Then, just ashe
turned to put his hand on the bell, she
said 

Stop one moment. I am very tired,
and cannot talk to-night ; but there is
something that I must speak to you about.
Yes, I must," she added, almost vehemently.
" All the way I have been thinking
of it ; I can never rest till I have
asked you about it. Will you call tomorrow
afternoon ? Would you very
much mind ? I will not keep you long."

I will call," said he, after a very brief
pause. " At what hour ? "

Shall we say four ? I think you are
exceedingly good. I  I cannot thank
you.

No, you have nothing to thank me
for," said Michael drily, as he pulled the
bell. " But since you are pleased to feel
grateful to me for something or other,
prove it by not thinking or fretting too
much about  what we were speaking of,"
and he looked meaningly at her. He could
not speak so indifferently as he would
have wished to. He knew, with unerring

certainty, that she had not a careless
nature, but a deep one  not a nature that
lives on the surface. He had pained her ;
that thought, though unreasonable, was persistently
present in his mind. She smiled
rather wanly in answer to his exhortation.
I will do what I can," she said.
I wish you had never asked me that
question," said Michael, and his voice
betrayed his disturbance.

Let me repeat your own advice  do
not think too much about it," said she,
turning as the door was opened.

Barlow stood there uttering an exclamation
of joy. Eleanor held out her hand
to Michael, and said in a very distinct
voice 

I thank you for your escort. And you
will do me the favour to call tomorrow
afternoon ? "

I shall do so," said he, and stood with
his hat in his hand till the door was closed
behind her. Then he turned, to find

William in possession of his mistress's
horse, and inquiring anxiously if she was
likely to be any the worse.

I hope not," said Michael, getting on to
his own horse again. " But listen to me,
my lad. When Miss Askam thinks of
riding long distances 'cross country, and
you don't know the way, another time let
me advise you to tell her so, and not get
into such a mess again."

He rode away, leaving William speechless
between concern at what had happened
and desperate puzzlement as to how
he was possibly to refuse to obey his
mistress's orders.

I isn't here to tell her what she ought
to do," reflected the youth. " I've here todo
what she tells me. How be I to do
both ? Perhaps you could "  with a nod
after the vanishing figure,  "but I've different
from you."

CHAPTER VI.

HOW A THORN WAS PLANTED.

Look here, Michael, if you ever mean
to sit still again, I should be awfully glad
if you would begin to do it now, if it's
quite the same to you. A man whirring
about the room, and crumpling up newspapers
without ever reading them is not
the best sort of help in working out calculations."


I'm sure I beg your pardon. I was
really lost in thought."

Humph ! Pretty noisy kind of
thoughts," said Roger, bending again over
the sheet which had occupied him.

There was perfect silence now for a few

moments (the scene was, of course, the
library at the Red Gables), too perfect a
silence to last very long. Then Michael
suddenly burst out in his turn 

Are you obliged to finish those
wretched calculations to-night ? Because,
if not, I should like to speak to you."

Roger threw his pen down.

Thankful for an excuse to let them
alone," said he. " What's up ? "

I told you how I came to meet Miss
Askam this afternoon."

You did."

You may be aware that from the Black
Bank Ford to Thorsgarth is a good five
miles ? "

It is every bit of it. I admit it
freely."

Perhaps you can also comprehend that
we did not ride all that distance in
unbroken silence ? "

Rather stupid of you both, if you did,
I should say."

Yes. Well, we had a good deal of
conversation."

Ah ! Was it of an agreeable nature ? "

It was interesting, at any rate."

That was well. I am yearning to
hear more. What did you talk about ? "

Scenery, amongst other things."

Yes ? Has she an eye for the picturesque
? "

A taste for it, I should say, seeing
the kind of expedition she had undertaken,
and how she came to be where I found
her."

To be sure ! I had forgotten that.
Well ? "

Michael paused, and Roger looked at
him. He had spoken flippantly, but he
had not been altogether delighted to find
how full his friend was of the afternoon's
adventure.

"She talked about her brother," said
Michael slowly.

To you ! Well "

Wait a bit ! It came on quite accidentally.
The whole thing was accidental,
and I don't know that I am not very
sorry to have got let in for it at all.
It was apropos of Otho's having gone
away from home. She told me he had
gone to Friarsdale, and asked me where,
exactly, it was. My reply enlightened
her considerably. Would you believe
that she was perfectly ignorant that he
possessed that place in Friarsdale ? She
was in a great state about it when she
gathered, from my casual remark, that he
had horses over there."

11 No wonder, if she has any idea of
the value of money, or any conception of
the way in which it flies in Friarsdale."

Bah ! She knows nothing about that,
of course. She had an idea that everything
of that kind must be low. I tried
to make things straight, but she had got
thinking, and putting two and two together
as quick-witted women will ; and before

I had time to take my breath, almost, she
had hit upon the exact truth, turned upon
me, and demanded to know if Otho were
a gambler."

How intensely disagreeable for you ! "

Humph ! Not very pleasant for her,
when I had to say yes to her question.
She did not "speak for an immense time.
It seemed an eternity to me. I began
to wish myself well out of it."

Well, you are well out of it now," said
Roger, looking at him from under his
bushy brows. But he spoke with some
uncertainty.

No, I'm not, unless I break a promise
I made her."

Roger was too entirely in sympathy
with Michael and his every mood to
express surprise, but, well though he knew
his friend, he felt it. Michael must, he
understood at once, have been very much
moved, to have made promises to Eleanor
Askam.

What sort of a promise was that,
Michael ? " he asked, quietly.

"When we parted at her door, I lifted
her from her horse, and she looked so
utterly sad and heartbroken, that I could
hardly bear to see her. She asked me
to call upon her tomorrow afternoon, as
she had something to say to me, and I 
said I would."

Silence again. Roger pondered the
situation, and at last said 

I suppose, if you made a promise of
that sort, you must keep it."

I must, I think. I'm only under the
impression that I was an awful fool ever
to make it."

I don't see why. It commits you to
nothing."

Oh, nothing, of course," said Michael
quickly. " I'm sorry for her, that's all.
And I hate to see a woman in trouble."

She may have got over her trouble by

the time you get there."
vol. n. 27

She'll never get over it, if you mean
that she may have begun not to care
about her brother's weaknesses, or vices 
whichever you please to call them."

Does she expect you to help her
in curing them ? " asked Roger, rather
bitterly.

I don't know what she wants," said
Michael curtly. " I thought I'd tell you
about it, that was all. It's all right."

With that he seemed to consider the
subject at an end. Roger knew quite
well that what Michael meant was, that
he repented him bitterly of his incautious
promise to set foot again within Thorns
and that in speaking about it, he
had had one lingering wish that Roger
might say, " Don't go. Say you can't, or
won't." But Roger had not been able to
say that, and if he had, Michael would not
have been able to act upon it. The thing
was settled. He was to go.

All the following day he went about his

business and his work, seemingly just as
usual. But behind all his occupations
he had constantly before his mind's eye
the scene of the previous evening  a
sepia-tinted landscape, a picture all in
neutral hues, behind whose grayness he
could feel a warmth and a glow which
thrilled him. He saw again the darkling
sky and fields, heard the roaring of the
swollen Balder, and then the measured
clank of their horses' hoofs through the.
streets and along the frosty roads. And
when this recollection faded for a time, it
was replaced by that of their parting 
the tired voice, the earnest request, the
promised, " I will not keep you long," the
sweet burden held for one moment in his
arms, and the door closed between them
when she went in.

Pooh ! What folly. I shall not give
way to any such nonsense. Otho Askam 
Otho is her brother. Magdalen  Gilbert 
what part or lot have I with them ? She

has some crotchet in her head. I would
not be unkind to her, but I will make no
more promises. I shall give her to understand
that."

It was a powerful and an honest
resolution, and came from the very depths
of Michael's convictions on the subject of
his own relations with these persons who
had once, years ago, played so important
a part in his life.

Directly after four o'clock, he found
himself walking up the Thorsgarth avenue,
and, as he went, he could not but remember,
mistily at first, how he and those
three other boys had once made that now
so mournful aisle ring with their shouts
of mirth and delight. " The thoughts of
youth are long, long thoughts," and as he
walked on and emerged in the open space
before the house, the dimness vanished,
and there came, glowing and sunshiny as
at the time, athwart all the frost and grayness
of the present, the vivid recollection

of those summer days, when he had seen
this same girl on whom he was now going
to call, led by her nurse's hand, or by that
of the proud young beauty, her mother,
pacing the terraces, and he, a boy of
twelve, had lain upon the river-bank, and
dreamed his dreams, lulled half to sleep
by the warmth of the sunshine and the
murmur of the stream.

Then, almost before he had adjusted his
mind to this recollection it seemed, he
heard his name announced to her and
stood before her, in a sombre room on
the ground-floor  the library.

Eleanor, who was pale and tired, as he
saw when he entered, rose from a chair
by the fire, and offered him her hand, a
slow, deep blush spreading itself over her
whole face. But she betrayed no embarrassment
of speech or manner. She
looked grave, sad, composed.

It is kind of you to come, just because I
asked you," said she, as they both sat down.

There is no kindness in that," said
Michael, beginning to measure his words,
in pursuance of his resolution. " You said
you wished to speak to me, or to ask me
something  I forget which,  and of course
I came. Equally, of course, you may find
me the most ignorant or silent of men,
before I leave you."

I know you are not ignorant on the
points as to which I wish for information.
But you may very easily choose to be
silent," answered Eleanor.

First of all, let me ask how you are,
to-day ? How did you sustain the shock
of the cold water yesterday afternoon ? "

I have taken no cold, thank you. In
fact, when I had got my wet things off,
and had become warm by the fire, I was
so utterly worn out that I couldn't sit
up any longer, and ignominiously went to
bed."

And to sleep, I hope ? "

Well  I won't boast of having slept

much ; but that was not because of the
plunge into the Balder Beck. . Mr.
Langstroth, I am not going to make
apologies or say I am sure you must be
surprised at my asking you to call upon
me to-day, or anything of that kind. I
think you can believe I am trying to act
for the best."

I am sure you are," said he, briefly
and coldly.

Yes. Therefore, no apologies are
needed ; but perhaps a word of explanation
is. You know I am almost a stranger
here?"

Yes."

But of course you do not know that
my brother is as much a stranger to me
and my friends as I am to him and his."

I did not know it  but "

"You did not know it. But it is so.
What you told me last night, in answer to
my question,"  she hastened to add, as he
looked up quickly  "you could not help it,

it was not your fault, but it distressed me
dreadfully. I thought about it all night.
I felt that I was groping in the dark, with
no one and nothing to guide me. There
is no one here from whom I can ask a
question  not one. I want to know if
you will answer me one or two."

It will depend upon what they are,"
he replied in the same curt, dry voice.

"Yes, of course. First of all  ah, I
cannot go on in this way, cataloguing
things," exclaimed Eleanor passionately.
It is too horrible. I don't believe I have
the right to ask one of these questions ;
and yet I feel as if so much depended on
my knowing the answers to them ! "

She had sat up, and leaned forward,
looking with intense earnestness, pleading
earnestness at him. Michael, imperceptibly
to her, caught his breath. The temptation
was strong to bid her ask what she would,
since he knew her motives must be pure.
As a matter of fact, he looked at her

steadily, gravely, and attentively, awaiting
what more she had to say. He said no
words to help or lead her on.

I will tell you what I want to know,"
she said, " Does Miss Wynter know about
Otho  about what he does with his money
his gambling ? Does he want to marry
her ? and would it be good for him if he
did marry her ? "

Having asked her questions, Eleanor
sat, with her face aflame, and looked at
him, every trace of her first self-possession
having vanished. As he did
not immediately answer, she went on
hurriedly 

I asked Miss Wynter if she knew
about Athos character and habits. I
asked her partly in joke and to tease her,
because I saw she hated me to take any
interest in him ; but she told me that if she
knew everything about him to the most
minute particular, she would not think of
sharing her knowledge with me." Then,

seeing Michael's lips grow tight and his
eyebrows draw together, she. added, " That
is why I know it is useless to ask her."

"It would be absurd to refuse to answer
that question," said Michael, almost contemptuously.
" Every one in Bradstane
knows that Miss Wynter and your brother
are friends  intimate friends, and that she
knows more about him than any one else,

except " He paused, with a look of

deep distaste on his face.

I know, I know," said Eleanor quickly.

Therefore that is no secret. As for
your other questions  I must decline to
make any kind of an answer to them. I
cannot imagine any circumstances under
which I would discuss those points."

It is perfectly natural that you should
feel so," said Eleanor, every spark of
spirit gone from her voice and attitude, as
she sat, leaning rather droopingly forward,
despondency on her face, and her fingers
loosely twined together. She looked towards

the ground after that remark, and
was silent, giving a deep sigh after a while.
Michael could not help looking at her
as she sat thus, having evidently almost
forgotten his presence. In contemplating
her he was vividly aware of her beauty,
and of the noble order to which it belonged;
but he was still more keenly alive to something
else  to the deep sadness which
overspread her whole countenance and
attitude. He was sure, from her whole,
appearance, and from what his well-trained
eye knew to be her temperament, that
she was well-formed for the enjoyment of
pleasure. But not, it would seem, to the
exclusion of other things. It was quite
evident that since the discovery she had
made with regard to Otho, she had not
had much delight in existence, or even
found much relief in looking forward to
a better time. Michael could understand
and appreciate this kind of disposition ; ina
woman, he had grown greatly to admire

it. Eleanor, as she sat now, disappointed,
puzzled, unhappy, seemingly wondering
what she was to do for the best, appealed
very strongly to the emotional side of his
nature, which had been dormant for years
now  ever since he had taken his life and
career into his own hands again, after the
great shock they had once sustained. But
he was no longer a boy, or even a very
impetuous man,  at least, not the man anymore
to let his impetuous run away with
him. There was no possible justification
for the questions which Eleanor had asked
him. He was not going to answer them 
was not going for one moment, to enter
into any discussion on those points. But
while his reason told him how wrong she
had been in asking the questions, his heart
forgave her freely the indiscretion. She
had asked him  because she felt she could
trust him. He liked the bold frankness
and unconventionality of the action. Magdalen
had ever loved the strictest observance

of outside form  unless there had
been some advantage to be gained by-disregarding
it. At this moment Eleanor
looked up, and met his eyes dwelling
steadily on her face. She blushed deeply.

I have to beg your pardon," said she,
for having brought you here on such a
fruitless errand. I might have known 
I did know, in my inmost heart  that you
could not, and would not answer those
questions. But I felt so at sea in the,
matter. I had such a need of guidance."

Michael rose, smiling slightly.

Do not apologize," said he ; " we all
do impetuous things sometimes. You, at
least, were actuated by no bad motives."

No," she said in a low voice, as she,
too, rose.

Then Michael, in his turn, gave way to
a sudden impulse.

Because I cannot speak to you on these
subjects," said he, " that is no reason why
you should not ask some one else ; it is no

reason why you should not know what
you wish to know. For my part, I think
you are quite right in seeking to learn the
truth on these matters."

But there is no one else," said Eleanor.
You and Miss Wynter are the only "

You are quite mistaken," he interrupted
her gravely. "What you say shows
that you are, indeed, a stranger to your
brother and his associates. He has one
friend who knows him more intimately and
has more influence over him than even
Miss Wynter, and that one is "

Your brother," Eleanor almost whispered,
again rushing to the right conclusion,
and saving Michael the pain of finishing
his sentence.

Yes," he answered gravely. " It is he
whom I mean. And as I believe he comes
here often "

"He is coming down for Christmas,
Otho told me," she interposed eagerly.

Ask him what you wish to know," said

Michael, a hardness coming into his tone
which was peculiar to him in speaking of
Gilbert. "He can have no reasons for
concealing anything from you, and can tell
you all you have asked me, and as much
more as you wish to know  that is, if he
chooses."

Thank you," said Eleanor enthusiastically.
" I will remember what you
say.

Then I will wish you good afternoon",
said Michael, holding out his hand.
Eleanor put hers within it silently.
Miss Askam," he said quickly, ' do not,
I say again, make too much of this trouble.
Do not battle too hard with it, if you know
what I mean. I expect that to you, who
have very likely never known a cross, in
the real sense of the word, it seems something
to be resented bitterly, but "

No, you are quite mistaken," said
Eleanor, quickly but softly, lifting her eyes
to his face with a steady look in them that

struck him very much. " I see that it is
something I shall have to live with. There
is no use in resenting a trouble of that
kind. When I came here, I came looking
for joy. I have found sorrow. I found it
the very day after I got here, though I
hardly knew what it was, then. I understand
now. I shall not rebel against it."

That is right," he could not help exclaiming
heartily, in a very different tone
of voice from any which she had yet heard
from his lips. And he gave her hand a
pressure and a little quick shake. " Forgive
me if I take the freedom of saying to
you, that from the first time I saw you I
thought you were made of the right stuff."

Did you ? " she said, smiling involuntarily,
and with a queer look adding,
I don't mean to make fun of serious
things, but it always did seem to me that
people made, as you say, of the right stuff,
meant those who were chosen out to bear
a lot of trouble, because their backs were

broader or stronger than those of their
neighbours."

"That is one view of the case, certainly,"
said Michael, going to the door. "Good
day ! "

And he walked out, having a final impression
of her, standing with her hands
folded before her, and looking after him
with an expression, half anxiety, half relief,
on her face.

A fine girl ! " said he to himself, as he
walked very slowly down the avenue : he
did not feel, now, in such a desperate
hurry to shake the dust of the place from
his feet. " What a blending of fire and
softness, of vigour and gentleness ! No
weak-willed fool would have spoken in
that way. It was not a spiritless acquiescence
in evil because she really had no
power to cope with it. It is that she
understands something of what is below
the surface. She has found out the best
way to meet it. ' I came here looking for

VOL. II. 28

joy. I have found sorrow.' How noble
she did look as she said it ! Well, may
she find strength too, to carry her sorrow
wisely and well. It is the best any of us
can ask for in this world."

But he pondered the theme in every
variety of aspect on his homeward way.
He wondered what she would do after he
had left her  how pass the dreary evening,
alone and cheered, in the great, desolate
house. At this idea Michael suddenly felt
a wave of exceeding great pity and compunction
sweep over his soul. Well might
she say, " I have found sorrow." What
else could one, nurtured as she had been,
look for, in that house and its associations ?
He suddenly became conscious how very
bad it was for a young woman to sit alone
and brood over troubles  bad for both
mental and bodily health. And he fell to
wondering who, in all the social circles of
Bradstane and its neighbourhood could in
some way play the part to her of friend or
associate.

Of course, what he pictured her as doing
was entirely different from what she really
did. After he had left the room, she stood
looking at the door which had closed after
him, and listened to his footsteps for the
few short moments during which it was
possible to hear them. Then, suddenly,
with a quick, restless movement she began
to pace the room. Backwards and forwards
she went, with an uneasy step, for
some time, till, in the gathering dark,
Barlow came in with a lamp, and with a
taper lighted some candles which stood on
the mantelpiece. He soon went away
again, and the illumination he had made
would have revealed her to any one who
had happened to be there, with a face
pallid but excited, and a strange unusual
light in her eyes. She made a pause in
her walk, moved uncertainly once or twice,
and then walked up to the mantelpiece.
She was not now thinking of the ill news
and the trouble which had, as it were,

stalked into her life, but of him through
whom, indirectly, she had become acquainted
with them. What did it all
mean ? and herself of two days ago, where
was it ? Was it laughter or tears now
struggling within her pleasure or pain ?
Something had happened to her, that she
felt, and she would always be different
from what she had been before. Had she
been lifted up, or struck down ? She could
not tell, she had not the faintest idea,
but she felt Michael's voice thrilling again
through every nerve, till at last the sensation
of the mastery he had gotten over
her became almost unbearable. If he had
thus laid her under a spell which she felt
to be almost terrible in its strength and
intensity, what of herself? She was not
yet so lost in her own subjective sensations
as to be unable to take his into consideration,
and at this moment she suddenly
lifted her eyes and looked at her own
reflection in the mirror over the mantelpiece

 her lips parted, and a new searching
eagerness in her expression.

He saw my face this afternoon, clearly
enough," something within her seemed to
say, with an uncontrollable frankness, for
which her usual self was in no wise accountable.
It was as if a voice apart, and
yet belonging to her, spoke, and she had
to listen. Some phase of her own nature
which had never yet addressed itself to
her, appealed to her now, crying aloud, so
that other voices were stilled ; it made
itself imperiously audible.

a He saw it. Did it please him, I
wonder? What did he think of it ? What
does he think of me ? I would give all
the world, if I had it, to know."

But the reflection of herself which she
saw, only flung her own doubt and wonder
and groping speculation back into her own
face, and presently she sat down again,
muttering, " I wish I had never seen him."

Then, at last, the wished-for tears broke

forth, and she whispered to herself between
them, "He is good, he is good, he
is good ! I know he is."

Good or bad, he had that day planted
a thorn in her breast, and it grew apace.

CHAPTER VII.

WORK AND WAGES.

Three weeks of unmitigated, solid, hardwork
followed in Michael's life upon these
two eventful afternoons  not work of a
kind to make him forget whatever transient
gleam of a different world might have
crossed his path. It was not the art that
can make poverty rich, and turn prose into
poetry ; it was not the science which can
possess and absorb and fascinate a man,
and charm him away from outside influences,
so as to be a formidable rival to
even a well-loved human being. It was
none of that, but one continual, mechanical
grind amongst prosaic and often sordid

surroundings, accomplished without excitement
or glamour, at the expense of considerable
physical wear and tear and
weariness. After such a day's work as
this, he would come in to his home and
his friend. If he was not too tired, there
was always plenty to occupy his time in
the shape of reading, connected with his
profession ; very often more visits to pay
during the evening ; very occasionally a
dinner-party at some house in the neighbourhood,
where he met the same people
he had been meeting ever since he had
begun to go to local dinner-parties, and
heard the same topics discussed that
always were discussed in Bradstane. His
nearest approach to a social and domestic
evening was when he, being very tired,
would indulge himself in the luxury of a
sofa and a pipe, and Roger, putting away
his books, would sit down to the piano
and play, or sing, or improvise for an hour
or two for his benefit. During moments

of frivolity and relaxation like these, he
often caught himself thinking of Eleanor
Askam, as she thanked him, in her sweet
tired voice, for his escort, or stood before
him with steadfast gaze, saying, " I came
looking for joy. I have found sorrow."
They were both situations in such sharp
contrast with the rest of his existence, that
it can scarcely be matter for surprise if he
dwelt upon them rather often in recollection.
He did not, however, think of them
as anything more than passing incidents,
to which it was pleasant to revert in
memory ; not as epochs or turning-points
in his mental or emotional condition.
During these weeks it happened that he
never once met Eleanor, or perhaps his
eyes might have had the scales lifted from
them. He heard of her sometimes, as
was natural. And one day, at a house
where he was lunching, some girls were
discussing her and her claims to beauty.
They agreed that these claims were quite

undeniable ; they admired her exceedingly.
She was very original-looking - , as well as
beautiful, and yet not in the least odd.

Repressing a smile, and exercising what
measure he possessed of the wisdom of
the serpent, Michael opened his ears that
they might, if possible, gather in the
reasons for this magnanimous and universal
admission. He presently learned
that Miss Askam, though so handsome,
and not a bit dull or stupid, was rather
quiet, went out very little, and had said
she did not think of visiting much during
the winter.

Then she won't be at any of the
balls ? " asked a practical spirit.

I suppose not, from that. But I don't
know, of course. She didn't say she had
vowed never to go out at all. But it must
be very trying for her. He won't go anywhere,
you know ; and she is evidently
not the sort of young woman who goes in
for society and amusement at any price."

No ; and I must say I admire her for
it. Mamma said she thought her quite
dignified and proper in her ideas  very
good form in every way. It's very sad
for her, having a brother like that, and no
one to take her out. I think we're orinoco

o

to ask her to lunch, some day."

Ah, yes ! " came in a chorus of satisfied
assent.

Michael hereupon took his leave. The
girls had forgotten his presence, and, on
his appearance amongst them, eagerly
asked if he knew Miss Askam.

I've met her casually, once or twice,"
said Michael calmly. " So far as I can
judge, your verdict upon her is full of
wisdom and justice." And he bowed himself
out.

Michael Langstroth does get more and
more dull and unsatisfactory as a companion
every time one sees him," observed a
young matron, who had known him since
they had both been children. " He's a

disappointed man, that's what he is," she
added with decision. "He will go on
getting worse and worse in that way."

Michael, riding away, thought also how
fortunate it was for Miss Askam that
she was " dignified ; " though it certainly
seemed as if the dignity must bring with
it a good deal of dulness, when practised
in a place like Bradstane.

But these thoughts of her, and talk of
her, even such as that he had just heard,
were occasional, rare ; while his work was
daily, hourly, and continual, and the pursuit
of it carried him quickly through the
last days of November, and the first week
or two of December, till it did not want
so very long to Christmas.

It was " an open winter," that year.
At least, December was well-advanced,
and there had been hardly a touch of
-frost. The roads were soft, and the air
was mild, so that it was not only Michael
who was to be seen riding up and down

at this season. He met friends occasionally,
and exchanged greetings with them,
at long distances from their homes.

One morning, riding in a road some
three or four miles from Bradstane, he
was walking his horse, and looking with
curiosity at some bushes in the hedge,
on which were visible many buds. The
trees had mistaken the warmth of autumn
for that of spring ; no doubt they would
presently be rudely reminded of their
error, blighted, and turned into vegetable
misanthropes, while the little unseasonable
black buds would die an untimely death.

Slowly turning a corner, he came full
upon what seemed to him, at first, quite
a cavalcade of horsemen and horsewomen.
A moment's glance, however, showed that
the party consisted of four  two ladies,
and two men, with a couple of grooms
in the background. The lane was not
wide, and they rode two and two.

Those in front, whom he saw and

recognized first, were Magdalen, and Otho
Askam. Magdalen was a little flushed ;
she looked even handsomer than usual,
and decidedly more animated. But, as
she suddenly recognized Michael, a change
passed over her face  a rapid, subtle look
of unease, a trouble, a stirring of the
depths below. It was the look which
she never could quite repress when she
met him, especially if Otho Askam were
present, and it was a look which always
renewed to Michael the assurance that,
in the combat between them, it was he
who had conquered her, not she him.
Otho frowned as they met ; Magdalen
averted her eyes as she bowed. It was
their way of acknowledging the wrong
they had done him. It was wrung from
them every time they encountered him.
They passed on, and then the next riders
came full into Michael's view.

In an instant he felt chilled, disconcerted,
and angered, too, with an anger

that hurt and pained him. His mind was
filled at once with wild, incoherent fears
and ideas. It was Eleanor Askam whose
gaze first met his, looking very grave, and
as it seemed to him very sweet, and rather
sad. The clear eyes dilated, and a quick
flush came into her face as she saw him.
He saw that look, and knew it as an
acknowledgment of what had already
passed between them. That sight of her,
and that look of hers could only have
given him pleasure. It was when he
recognized her companion that his heart
sank so heavily. Gilberts gaze had not
wavered as Magdalen's did, when he
encountered that of Michael. He had
grown into the sort of man, outwardly
considered, that he might have been
expected to develop into. He was not
in the least handsome, but had an air
of distinction, an individuality in his
whole appearance which went far beyond
good looks. He was perfectly dressed.

He was a perfect horseman  his city life
had not broken him of that familiar
habitude of his youth and young manhood,
 and he looked every inch like a
gentleman and a man of the world.
When Michael took off his hat, so did
Gilbert, with unruffled composure. It
was Michael's turn to be troubled and
distressed beyond all reason. Long after
they had passed each other he rode on
with his feelings in a state of the utmost
perturbation, a thousand wild thoughts
tormenting his soul.

The chief one was that he himself had
advised Eleanor, so to speak, to make a
friend of Gilbert  to confide her troubles
to him, and ask his advice. What had
he been dreaming of? Had he been fool
enough to identify her feelings with his
own, and be confident that she would
have no intercourse with Gilbert beyond
what was absolutely necessary ? What
earthly right or reason had he had for

assuming such a thing ? A ludicrous
feeling of injured vanity came across him
as, in a kind of parenthesis, he recollected
Gilbert's appearance ; the high finish and
perfection of every appointment, from his
hat to his boots, and then contrasted with
it all his own rather rough and ready
accoutrements  the clothing and paraphernalia
of the poor country doctor who
must be out at all hours and in all
weather, no matter what betide. A deep,
dark flush crossed Michael's face. It
was the first time such a contrast had
ever crossed his mind. Now he thought,
What does it matter how he came by
it all ? She will not inquire into that,
and he is the sort of man she has been
accustomed to. And we always like what
we are accustomed to, no matter how we
may pretend to relish a change." His
poverty and want of power to make the
appearance of other young men, no better
born nor bred than himself, galled him,
vol. 11. 29

for the very first time, deep in his heart of
hearts.

Then other considerations came rushing
into his mind. She had looked grave, it
was true ; but what of that ? Hers might
be one of those deep natures to which
happiness gives a grave expression. And,
grave or not, she had been riding by
Gilbert's side ; she had apparently been
conversing with him on friendly terms ;
there had been no expression of displeasure
or dislike upon her face.

And on what other terms could she
possibly have been with him ? he asked
himself. And what had she to do with
his quarrels ? "I must be going off my
head !" said Michael to himself, lifting off
his hat, to let the air cool his forehead.
After all, he realized, when he had had a
little time in which to let his ideas adjust
themselves, the fear which had seized upon
his innermost soul and dismayed it was,
not lest Eleanor should be attracted by

Gilbert, but lest Gilbert should be attracted
by Eleanor. That which caused him to
be dismayed by this prospect was the
knowledge that if such a thing were to
happen  if Gilbert should love her, and
be pleased to tell her so, and to make any
claim for her, he had a great deal of power.
He literally held her brother's fortunes in
the hollow of his hand. If he could not
altogether repair the ravages Otho had
made in his estate, he could finish the
matter at his pleasure, and make a complete
ruin of what as yet was but a badly
damaged property. If it should ever come
to pass that he wished to marry Eleanor,
and she should not wish to marry him, he
could make her life miserable to her, if he
chose, through the injuries which he could
inflict upon her brother. And, then, supposing
she should care for him ! Michael
found himself breathing harder and riding
faster as this possibility entered his mind,
but he forced himself to face it. Should

she ever " care for " Gilbert, there was
nothing to prevent, but everything to urge
a marriage between them. And after all,
why should she not care for him ? She
had been far away, and all unwitting the
circumstances, when Gilbert's sin had been
committed ; and if he had sinned basely
and blackly, once, he had by his sin got
what he aimed at ; he had bought with it
the means and the power to be honest for
all the rest of his life. Not every one,
reflected Michael, could boast so much.

Thoughts like these did not form a
soothing accompaniment to his ride. He
angrily asked himself what it was to him,
supposing she and Gilbert chose to be
married next week ? He had no answer
to that, but only the consciousness that it
would be a great deal to him ; unhappiness
which he preferred not to contemplate.
Reason told him that his thoughts were
extravagant and exaggerated  that he had
imagined without a cause the extremest

possibilities of a given (imaginary) situation.
Something else, though, importunately
said that though they might be
extreme possibilities, yet that they distinctly
were possibilities.

He set his teeth, and told himself in
effect, if not in so many words, that he was
not " going to be made a fool of again by
that set." And if, by some unaccountable
means, Eleanor Askam had become an
object of so much importance in his mind,
the best thing to do now would be to be
hard, and root her out at once ;  hard to
himself, of course  not to her.

He had an opportunity that very evening
of, so to speak, trying the effect of a
scourge upon his own flesh. Dr. Rown-
tree presented himself after dinner for a
chat. This, as a rule, meant that they all
three gossiped as hard, or harder than if
they had been so many spinsters of the
same ages and standing. This evening,
from the nature of the subject, which soon

became apparent, Roger and the old doctor
did the gossiping with avidity ; and Michael
seized the opportunity, without taking
them into his confidence, to use the scourge
upon himself. They sat in the library,
and after a few preliminary remarks, Dr.
Rowntree uttered the words which he had
come for the express purpose of uttering 

I was at Johnson's last night," said he.

'johnson" was the vicar of Bradstane
a toil-worn man, with a very exceeding
numerous progeny.

Were you ? " said Michael ; " and how
are they going on ? I haven't been therefor
ages."

No, they said it was long since they
had seen you. I think they are all flourishing.
Effie looks a great deal better.
Your absence does not seem to have
damaged you in her estimation yet."

Yet  why the extreme emphasis upon
that word ? " asked Michael, in surprise.
1 don't expect ever to be damaged in

Effie's estimation. And I told Mrs. Johnson
that the treatment would have to be
persevered in some time before any good
effects could be expected, so I thought my
absence would be accounted for."

Oh, I'm not meaning that," said the
doctor mysteriously. " Mrs. Johnson is
not the woman to shirk a direction of that
kind. You may be sure that if you told
her the treatment needed perseverance, it
would get it from her. It has had it, and
with good results. Poor little weakling !
She may out-grow it all yet, though ; and
I will say that I don't know a kinder
and a gentler family, parents and children
and all, than the Johnsonss, anywhere."

Yes, they are a very nice lot of children,"
said Michael, who was tracing out
the details of the Battle of Bull Run on
a map, and who spoke absently. "Very
nice children, and I must go and see them
soon. But I have been so busy."

You had better go, if you don't want

your nose putting out of joint," said the
doctor. " They are in a state of excitement
at having found a new friend  a
formidable rival to you, I can tell you, my
lad."

Whoever it may be," said Michael, his
finger on the line of the Shenandoah
Valley railroad, " I will stake all I am
worth on Effie's fidelity."

Well, Erie  of course she's infatuated
about you. Perhaps the camp might even
divide,  Erie and the rest of the girls on
your side, and the boys on that of the new
person. Guess who it is."

Michael, who had given his undivided
attention to this last remark, knew in an
instant. He had no need to guess. Not
feeling inclined to rouse the curiosity of
of the other two, however, he merely shook
his head, and apparently returned to the
study of his map. It was at this juncture
that the scourge came into requisition.
He was silent, he knew he should not take

much part in the rest of the conversation.
Roger, who was also, to some extent, a
friend of the little Johnsonss, now inquired
with interest who the " new person " was.

Well, you'd never guess, if you tried
for a week," said the innocent old gentleman,
beaming triumphantly upon them
through his spectacles ; " so I may as well
tell you. It is Miss Askam of Thorsgarth
Otho's sister."

Of course it was," thought Michael j
and he was conscious that Roger in expressing
his own astonishment, shot a
quick glance at him, Michael. He
managed to conjure up a look which,
accompanied by raised eyebrows, and a
murmured " dear me ! " formed a very fair
imitation of surprise. He envied Roger's
unaffected interest and astonishment.

I have such a thorough contempt for
all that lot," went on Dr. Rowntree, " that
if I had known Miss Askam was going
to be there last night, nothing would have

induced me to go. I've had many lessons
on the folly of being prejudiced and pigheaded,
but I believe I am occasionally a
little inclined that way  eh, what ? "

He looked sharply at Roger, who merely
laughed and said, " Go on. When are
you coming to Miss Askam ? "

Well, at once. I turned in unexpectedly,
about half-past seven, last night. I
wanted to see Mrs. Johnson about my
Christmas-tree. You know the children
always have a Christmas-tree at my house.
I was shown into the sitting-room, and
there I found them. Mrs. Johnson was
actually sitting by the fire, reading  would
you believe it ?  reading a novel. And
Miss Askam was at the table playing
commerce ' with all of them. There
wasn't one left out. And they had candies
for a pool. I was so astounded that I
hardly knew what to make of it, and stood
there looking quite foolish. However, I
was presented to the lady, and she invited

me to join the game ; but of course I had
come on other business."

He paused. Roger did not vex Michael
by looking at him. But he instinctively
understood that Michael did not wish to
take any part in this conversation. He
therefore said, " Well ? "

Well, Mrs. Johnson and I had a little
conversation  about the Christmas-tree, of
course  in another room. Naturally, she
mentioned Miss Askam, and how they
had become acquainted. She says Miss
Askam is an angel, and that she has done
more than any one else to reconcile her to
her position here  of the poor lady struggling
amongst rich acquaintances, without
a real friend in the lot."

It was well-known by Mrs. Johnsonss
intimate friends, and by these three men
amongst them, that she had never felt
happy or at home with the well-born and
wealthy sheep of her husband's flock 
those sheep who stood in every worldly

consideration so very high above their
shepherd. Her poverty, her many children,
and her many cares had always
prevented her from visiting them on terms
of anything like equality ; while her own
upbringing as a gentlewoman, made their
patronage, however good-natured, very
galling to her. And, perhaps, none of them
had ever been so careworn themselves or
so troubled as to be able to approach her
as a friend. It was, at least, whosesoever
the fault might be, a certain thing that
Mrs. Johnson did not " get on" with her
richer neighbours, and that many of them
considered her unbending, unreasonable, and
disagreeable. There was probably ground
for both opinions. Her brusqueness and
utter unwillingness to receive any kind of
favours annoyed them, while to have them
step from their carriages into her shabby
house, and coldly behold the bareness of
the domestic territory, exasperated and
humiliated her at the same time. Perhaps,

as a matter of fact, their hearts were better
than their manners ; certainly, this was the
case with Mrs. Johnson herself ; but neither
of them could see the good in the other
side.

Miss Askam didn't patronize her, then ?"
said Roger.

Well, no, or you may be sure she
would not have been sitting in the midst
of them in that fashion. It seems Johnson
insisted that his wife should call upon Miss
Askam soon after she came. He said
Otho's goings on were nothing to them,
and they had no right to assume that Miss
Askam would be anything but delighted
to receive the wife of her parish priest.
So Mrs. Johnson put on her best gown
and went, sorely against her will, having
made up her mind to find a female edition
of Otho. You may judge of her relief at
what she did find."

I don't see how we can be expected
to enter into the fulness of Mrs. Johnson's

joy, seeing that we don't know Miss Askam.
And why she should have assumed

that "

Botheration to you and your assumptions
! Will you let me tell my own tale
in my own way, and don't be a prig. Mrs.
johnson found, as she said, a simple, unassuming
young lady, as unpretentious as
if she had lived in a four-roomed cottage.
She seemed downright glad to see Mrs.
Johnson, and made her have tea, and asked
her about the children ; and, above all, she
didn't offer to send her home in the carriage."
(Roger gave vent to a short,
sardonic laugh. He had a powerful, insane
objection to Ada's being " sent home
in the carriage" from Balder Hall.) " But
she did put on her things and walk half
the way home with her. She asked if she
might go and see the children. Of course
Mrs. Johnson gave a few particulars about
their establishment, which seems to me to
have been highly unnecessary "

Very," echoed Roger. " Why can't
people stand on their own legs, as their
own legs, and not be always deprecating
the fact that they are not just the same
shape as the legs of other people ? Well !

"It was not long before Miss Askam
presented herself, at an hour when they
were all in, and in five minutes she'd made
friends with every one of them, from the
biggest to the least. So now she's a friend
of the family, and her name a household
word, like yours*, Mike."

Isn't it rather odd that she should
chum so with the Johnsonss ? " asked Roger,
going fully into the question.

No, I don't think so. I think she
finds it congenial. She's always welcome,
and she knows it. And there's another
thing,  she is a woman of the right
sort."

What on earth do you mean by that ? "
asked Roger, while Michael sat silent.

Well, it would take a good while to

explain all I mean by that. But when you
come across such a woman, you know her
quickly for what she is, or I'm sorry for
you if you don't ; you ain't up to much. The
right sort of woman, when she has griefs
and sorrows of her own  and that young
thing has, unless her sad eyes are very
misleading  does not seek her distractions
where the wrong sort of woman does. I
don't mean that she shuts herself up like a
nun  that's no good ; but she does seem to
fly to charity, by which I don't mean carrying
round tracts and soup-tickets ; she flies
to charity, I say, as a duck takes to water.
I don't know that she is always so anxious
to forget her troubles  the right sort of
woman. You can't forget a constant pain ;
you couldn't forget chronic neuralgia if
you had that blessing given you ; but she
does find a right use for them  the use
they were intended for by Him who sent
them to her," said the little doctor, lowering
his voice ; " and she best alleviates her

own griefs by helping others out of theirs.
I'm convinced that Miss Askam is such
a woman. She's sad  very sad  she is,
for all her riches and all her beauty ; and
Michael, what must you be rattling that
blind down for, just when I'm talking ?
It's your own garden outside. You can't
be overlooked, if that is what you are
afraid of."

I beg your pardon. Well, what next ? "
said Michael, with an immense effort, sitting
down again, and trying to look tranquil.
One would almost have said that
the worthy doctor's eulogium bored him.

I dare say you are right," said Roger.
Anyhow, if she finds a need for friends
of that sort, to whom she can be a help,
I am glad she has found out the Johnsonss ;
for they can do with a few, ' of the right
sort,' as you say."

I can't tell you how much I liked her,"
said Dr. Rowntree, beaming contentedly.
There was only one thing that Mrs.

VOL. II. 30

Johnson said, that went a little against the
grain with me."

While you were settling about the
Christmas-tree, I suppose ? " said Roger
politely.

That man from London, saving your
presence, Michael, is staying at Thorns
now. He called with her one morning
when she came to the vicarage "

Oh, come ! " said Roger hastily, " Mrs.
Johnson is well-known to be a matchmaker."


Well," said the doctor, a little abashed,
we'll hope that that idea is nothing but
imagination, of course."

It may be, or it may not be so," here
observed Michael, joining in the conversation
for the first time, and using his scourge
upon himself out of sheer perversity of
spirit. " But I should say if it is, imagination
has got a better handle to lay hold of
than it usually has, in Bradstane."

"Why  do you know anything ? Have

you heard anything ? " both the others
inquired, turning upon him with greedy
eagerness.

u Nothing in the world," said Michael
coldly, " except what my own senses tell
me. I met them all out riding this morning
 Askam and Magdalen ; Miss Askam
and Gilbert. I immediately thought of
that possibility, for some reason  and
thought it a very likely one too."

It is not likely she would favour him,'
said Dr. Rowntree, with an angry sniff,
however he might like her."

Michael shrugged his shoulders. For
some reason, unknown to himself, he felt
impelled to combat the doctor  try to
dispel the couleur de rose in which he saw
all that he liked or loved.

No one can even hazard a guess on
such a subject," said he; "but if he Liked'
her, as you express it, things might be
made very unpleasant for her, if she didn't,
see her way to liking him in return."

Ah  ow ! " gasped Dr. Rowntree, as
this possibility flashed across his mind.
I knew she had her troubles' he concluded
darkly.

Roger burst out laughing. Michael said
not another word. It sometimes happened
that he had occasion, as now, to
mention Gilbert's name, in the course of
conversation, when it always fell from his
lips as calmly and coldly as if it had been
the name of some one unknown.

I suppose," said Roger, " that she will
be at the concert ? "

Oh yes. She has promised them to
go to that. It was raining last night when
her carriage came for her, and she begged
to set me down at my house. So I went
with her, and had a little conversation with
her. She insists upon joining at my
Christmas-tree. She says she knows of a
lot of things the children want which their
mother would never tell me of  and I
who thought she told me everything ! And

then she said, ' Fancy their faces, you
know, when they every one find two presents
instead of only one. It will be worth
anything, just to look at them.' And
she laughed at the idea. So she is to call
upon my sister tomorrow, and they will
settle it all between them. But you'll beat
my house at the party, of course,
and then you can see and judge for
yourselves."

Neither of the young men said anything
to this, and Dr. Rowntree, expressing an
opinion that he had tarried long enough,
got up from his chair, and took his departure.


There was silence for a little while, and
then Roger said, " What an old enthusiast
he is when he takes a fancy to any one."

Yes, he is," said Michael coldly, as he,
too, rose. " I have to go out again, so I
had better lose no more time."

Out again, Michael ! Are you sure ? "

I'm not very likely to make a mistake

about it," said the young man, smiling
slightly, as he glanced over his list.

Well, I do call it too bad, after such a
day as you have had. Anybody is better
off than a doctor," grumbled Roger.

Michael went out, merely remarking that
it was all in the day's work.

It was late before he returned, and during
his absence Roger had time to reflect upon
the matters they had been discussing
earlier.

"It touched up Michael in some disagreeable
way  what the old man said,"
he decided. " I wonder what it could be.
Surely he has not got a fancy for that girl !
What a cursed complication that would be,
to be sure ! But I'm sure he hasn't, or if
he had, he has will enough to crush it
out, quickly. He would never yield to it.
What a voice that was in which he spoke of
meetings them ! . . . Sometimes I wonder
if he ever has any self-reproach when he
meets Gilbert on these auspicious occasions.

Not likely, I should think. Michael is a
good man ; and when a good man  a
really good man, like him  feels that he
has a right to be hard, by George ! he does
use it with a vengeance. I don't think
it would ever occur to him that Gilbert
could have anything to say for himself.
And I do fondly hope he has no ' feelings '
on the subject of this astonishing Miss
Askam. It would be too horrible if anything
like that were to happen."

CHAPTER VIII.

Cross-purposes.

A few days after this, the subject of the
above discussion, the " astonishing Miss
Askam," the new friend of the Johnson
family, and the object of Dr. Rowntree's
fervent adoration, returning from a morning
visit to the vicarage, and making her
way home by way of the " Castle walk,"
as it was called, found herself a little tired ;
and as it was a mild and sunshiny day, she
seated herself upon a wooden bench which
was situated just under the ruin of the
great tower, and rested herself, while she
watched the flow of Tees, turbid with the
late rains, far below her feet.

While she sat there, some one, humming
a tune, came round the corner, and Eleanor,
glancing at her, beheld the showily dressed
little figure of Ada Dixon. Ada had seen
Eleanor, too, and she hesitated perceptibly
in her walk, a look of expectation and
curiosity upon her face.

Good morning," said Eleanor cheerfully,
and did not intend to say any more ;
but Ada stopped, now that she had a faint
excuse for doing so. Eleanor then remembered
what had seemed to her the rude
treatment bestowed upon the young girl by
Otho and Magdalen, on the occasion of
her well-remembered visit to Balder Hall,
and she decided that a little courtesy might
not be out of place here.

Good morning, Miss Askam," Ada replied,
her eyes roving anxiously over all
the details of the other's costume. " How
do you do ? I hope you are very well,"
she added, deciding within her own mind
that Miss Askam "dressed very plain and

dark, and all one colour  just a plain, dark
brown. I do like a little brightness."

I am very well, thank you," said
Eleanor, utterly unconscious of this scrutiny.
" Have you been to Miss Winters
again lately ? "

Yes, Miss Askam. I go there pretty
often. Once or twice a week, at any
rate. Miss Wynter and I are great
friends."

Oh. And how are your songs getting
on ? Those which you are preparing for
the concert, I mean ! "

Oh, thank you, very well. I'm almost
perfect in them now."

Perhaps you would like to sit down.
I felt tired ; it is such a mild morning,"
said Eleanor, making room on the bench.

Ada promptly sat down.

I was feeling a little tired," she replied,
with an air of languor ; " really, the
weather is not at all seasonable."

No ; but do you like frost ? I do ;

but you don't look to me as if you could
stand much of that sort of thing."

Oh, I'm not particularly delicate, thank
you  never very strong, but I always keep
going, somehow," said Ada. " I haven't
seen you at Balder Hall, lately," she added,
to Eleanor's great astonishment.

That is not surprising, as I have not
been there since the day I saw you," she
answered indifferently. " Are you going
to sing that same song at the concert ? "
she added.

No, not that one. I take part in a
duet with Miss Wynter."

I see. Not so trying, quite, as having
to stand up alone. I saw you were a little
nervous that afternoon ; but one soon gets
over that when one has once started."

Oh, thank you, there's no call to pity
me," said Ada, with a lofty smile. " I'm
accustomed to singing before gentlemen."

Oh, I don't mean that exactly," said
Eleanor, astounded to find the construction

put upon her words. " What a queer little
self-sufficient, ill-bred thing it is ! " she reflected
to herself. " How sad that Mr.
Camm should be so blind ! " For she had
heard a great deal about Roer Camm at
the vicarage, and from the doctor, whom
she had seen once or twice in the last
few days.

"It did not matter in the least," went
on Ada, anxious to vindicate herself from
the charge of nervousness. " When one
has to sing in public, it would never do to
get nervous before one's friends."

"Well, no," Eleanor admitted, secretly
more and more surprised and amused.
"Is she like this by nature, or has Miss
Wynter petted her till she has got such
ideas into her head ? " Meantime, Ada,
secretly much elated, wished very much
that some one would come by and see her
seated side by side with Miss Askam, who,
it was evident, was quite pleased to see
her. She was accustomed to be treated

very differently by Magdalen, who talked
to her as if she had been a child, snubbed
her, and sent her running to fetch and
carry, while she encouraged her to come,
and said she could not do without her.
Magdalen, as Ada knew, valued her at no
very high figure ; Miss Askam, she fancied,
mistook her for a lady. For poor Ada,
with all her vanity, was so keenly conscious
of not being a lady, so well aware that
something was wanting to make her into,
one  a really fashionable milliner, probably,
or a course of visiting amongst
stylish people. So she behaved now with
a perish flippancy, intended to show that
she was as well aware of her own claims
to distinction as any one else could be,
which, indeed, was very emphatically the
case.

Ada had a book in her hand, or rather
a paper number of a newspaper or journal.

Were you reading as you took your
walk ? " asked Eleanor.

"Yes, I was," and she displayed the
title-page of the periodical, with a sensational
engraving on it, and the title, Genteel
Journal r

Oh dear ! " Eleanor could not help
saying ; " are you fond of reading ? "

Very, some sorts of reading. I like
the stories in the Genteel Journal, and the
poetry too. Have you read 4 The Earl's
Caprice ? ' "

No," said Eleanor, much interested,
and wondering what further developments
the conversation would take. " Is that a
story ? "

"Yes, indeed, a most delightful one.
It is running now in the Journal, and
leaves off at such an exciting part. They
always do."

"Who is the author?"

Miss Laura Lovedayay. Don't you think
her stories are very pretty ? "

I'm afraid I am very ignorant, for I
never heard of her before,"

" You do surprise me. There's lovely
poetry in this paper too. Augustus Sprout
writes a good deal for it. You will know
his poetry, I dare say"'

I must plead guilty to having never
heard of either him or his poems."

Dear me, how odd ! The Genteel
Journal published a sketch of his life a
little while ago. It was like a novel to
read it."

Since you are so fond of stories, o
course you are acquainted with the
classics amongst our novelists,  Thackeray,
Dickens, Sir Walter Scott, and all the
other great names ? "

Classics ! " cried Ada, not answering the
question. " Oh, I know what classics are.
Roger  Mr. Camm, that is, you know 
is always telling me I should read this
and that and the other, because they are
classics. I know I never tried a classic
yet that wasn't awfully dry  yes, awfully."

Perhaps you haven't ever really tried."

Oh yes, I have. He does like such
very dry books. I lent him one of Laura
Lovedayay's novels, one day  not the ' Earl's
Caprice but another, ' The Fate of the
Falconers,' it was called. It is such a
pretty story, all about how a very old
family were saved from ruin by the eldest
son's clandestine marriage with quite a
poor, obscure girl, but very beautiful, of
course. Well, Roer brought it back
very soon, and said it was worse than
silly, it was nasty  fancy, accusing me of
reading nasty things, Miss Askam ! And
he wondered how I could pollute my mind
with such stuff."

Well ?" said Eleanor, with deep interest.

And he wanted me to promise never
to read any more of Laura Lovedayay's
novels. Just fancy !"

And I am sure you did promise," said
Eleanor gently.

Not I, indeed!" retorted Ada, tossing
her head; and then, seeing that Miss

Askam's eyes were fixed very gravely
upon her, she reddened, and added, with
some confusion 

Well, there, I did promise. He was
so very urgent about it."

I thought you would. I am sure Mr.
Camm was quite right. And I am sure
you will be all the better for not reading
any more of Miss Lovedayay's novels. Even
if you read nothing else, it would be better
not to read them."

Ada fumbled for some little time with
a massive silver watch-chain, and then said
slowly 

Miss Askam, don't you be shocked,
but I have read some more of them  two
of them. I did not tell Roger, because I
knew he'd never ask me. He doesn't
really care about it, you know ; it's only
that he hasn't a head for stories, and that
sort of thing ; and he thinks every one
else can care for the same dry things that
he likes. I did try to read Macaulay's

VOL. II. 31

History,' but it was no use. What do I
care for such things  things that happened

hundreds and thousands of years ago"

She saw a startled expression upon her
auditor's face, and went on : " There, I
see I'm all wrong; but I did hate it so,
that I can't even remember what it was
about, nor when it all happened. I can't
read such books, and that's all about
it ; and yet, something I must have to
read."

"Oh, I am so sorry that you did read
those two other books!" exclaimed Eleanor
earnestly.

And Ada Dixon thought how very odd
she was, and not anything like as nice
as Miss Wynter. Miss Wynter always
encouraged her to talk about the novels
of Laura Lovedayay, or about the poems of
Augustus Sprout, or, indeed, about anything
and everything that came into her
head. Remembering this, and feeling that
it was impossible for any one to know

better about things than Miss Wynter, she
took courage, and said 

"Well, but, Miss Askam, I don't see
that Roger has a right to dictate things of
that kind to me, especially when I'm not
interested in the things that interest him.
Miss Wynter always asks me all about the
novels, and poetry, and things, and she
says it amuses her immensely to hear
about them."

I dare say it does," said Eleanor, in a*
tone of such strong and unguarded displeasure,
that Ada immediately thought,
She's jealous of Miss Wynter for something.
Ma said she was."

But," Eleanor pursued, " you had not
been dictated to. I understand that you
promised Mr. Camm "

Well, I did ; but "

But you should not have broken your
promise. Please do excuse my saying it.
I dare say I have no business to, but I feel
so much interested in you and Mr. Camm.

I have heard so much about him, and I
think he must be so remarkably clever and
interesting "

Do you ! " exclaimed Ada, in unaffected
astonishment. " Well, I never ! "

" I feel perfectly certain that he is very
clever, and that some day he will make a
mark in the world. I'm sure there is no
doubt about that. You should be very
proud to have won the love of such a man,
for I am sure that you will have reason to
be proud to be his wife, some day."

Eh, Miss Askam !"

Ada was, as she would have said herself,
taken aback " by Miss Askam's earnestness,
and especially by the bold way in
which she prophesied great things, and
that, too, before the event. It had never
occurred to her to look at it in that light
before. Her father always said how steady
and " decent" Roger was ; that meant, she
knew, that he was expected always to have
an income and a comfortable home for her,

Ada. But her mother looked down upon
him ; and she herself, though she had been
pleased and flattered with his attentions
at first, and was aware that many another
girl in Bradstane would have lent no unwilling
ear to his courting, had lately
begun to see the possibility of a future,
far more highly coloured and richly gilded
than any that Roger Camm had to offer
her ; a future more like the state of things
depicted in " The Fate of the Falconers, 7 '
in which the heir of an ancient and lordly
house, handsome, picturesque, with the
manners of a prince, and the sins of a
Corsair upon his soul, became enslaved by
the charms of a young girl, her own age,
and, so far as she had gathered from the
description, very much resembling herself
in personal appearance. A secret marriage
had followed ; a little romantic adversity,
in which lovers and flattery, and old
castles and devoted retainers, of whom,
she thought, old Barlow at Thorsgarth

might stand as a very fair specimen, had
never been missing. These romantic adjuncts
had never been wanting in the
story; and then came the gradual working-round,
which in the end left the lovely
Adela a countess, with crowds of servants,
jewels, a box at the opera, and all London
raving about her beauty. That  or something
as near it as circumstances allowed 
was the life for her, thought Ada. That
was the sphere she had been born to
grace ; and the rapture of feeling that for
her sake a man would give up his evil
ways, was infinitely beyond any prosaic
union with one who was not distinguished
by having evil ways to give up. But here
Miss Askam's voice again disturbed her.

Yes, I am quite sure of it," she said, in
the same straightforward, earnest way.
I think you ought to be very proud that
he has chosen you ; and as for giving up
reading things which he disapproves of,
you surely cannot hesitate about that. You

must know that he is very clever, and
has had a great deal more experience than
you have."

Oh yes." Ada was quite ready to
own that. It was what she was quite
sure of. The only thing was, she was not
sure that cleverness and experience, like
Rogers, made their owners altogether
more agreeable. At any rate, they became
oppressive when frequently used to point
out to her her shortcomings. That was
not her idea of the functions of a lover ;
it was not the way in which the heroes in
Laura Lovedayay's novels behaved. Those
gentlemen had eyes of fire and lips of
flame ; they always managed to appear
suddenly by moonlight, and the scenery in
which they moved always happened to
be of a picturesque kind,  balconies and
verandahs forming a great feature in every
landscape. They never alluded to Macaulay's
" History ; " and while Roger had
once told her how glad he was that she

had discarded her chignon, which he went
so far as to characterize as a " nasty lump,"
Miss Lovedayay's heroes were in the habit
of pushing back the tresses from their
mistress's brows, and murmuring words of
adoration in her ears. Yet here was Miss
Askam telling her she ought to be proud
to be loved by this fault-finding man ;
perhaps she ought to be proud even of
being found fault with. She would ask ;
and she did.

But, Miss Askam, Roger is always
picking holes in what I do. It isn't in
books alone, but about everything, and
always  at least, very often. I suppose I
ought to be proud of that, too, since he's
so very clever, you say."

You say ! " Eleanor perceived from
these words that she had wasted her
breath, and privately felt that it served
her right for ever entering into such a
discussion. But Ada was looking at her
with intense earnestness, and Eleanor

asked, " Do you really wish me to give
you my opinion on such a subject?"

Indeed, I wish you would."

Well, in a way, I think you ought to
be proud to be even found fault with by
him. He would not do it if he did not
care very much for you, and also feel sure
that you had it in you to grow into something
higher and better.

Well, I don't know. Roger was satisfied
enough when I said I would have
him," said Ada discontentedly.

But," said Eleanor, the slow, deep
blush coming over her face, and hesitating
as she spoke, " if you love him very much,
as of course you do ? "

I  oh yes, I'm very fond of him, of
course," said Ada unwillingly.

Then you won't be satisfied with yourself,
I should think, but will want to rise
higher and become better and better, so as
to be more worthy of him."

Worthy of him ! " echoed Ada, offended.

I'm as good as he is. He's not the only
one I could have had. No, and I needn't
be sitting in the dust to keep him. If it
was all off tomorrow I could have another
next week."

Could you, indeed ? " said Eleanor
coldly. " I think we probably don't agree
upon the matter, and had better not say
any more about it. You asked my opinion,
or I certainly should not have spoken to
you on such a subject."

She rose, and seeing Ada's flushed and
discomfited look, could not continue vexed
with her.

I am sorry if I have annoyed you,"
she said frankly, and smiling her bright
smile. She offered Ada her hand, adding,
still with a smile, " You must forgive me,
and don't let Mr. Camm know that you
have been getting lectures from someone
else. I expect he prefers to keep a monopoly
of them."

Ada could not rise to the occasion. She

shook hands rather sheepishly, muttered
something about it " not muttering," and
the two separated.

After lunch, late in the afternoon, and
when it was growing dusk, Eleanor was
sitting in the library. She had found that
when she did this, Otho, especially now
that he had a friend with him, would
sometimes stroll in towards evening and
sit for an hour. This afternoon he did
so, followed by Gilbert. They had been,
shooting, said they were thirsty, and
craved for tea, which she gave them.

If Eleanor looked grave in these days,
the gravity was partly caused by the fact
that she could not reconcile the Gilbert
Langstroth of whom she had heard so
much, and from so many persons, with the
Gilbert Langstroth who was Otho's guest,
and her own frequent companion. She
naturally abhorred what she had heard of
him ; she had received him with cold
civility, and was in every way disposed to

keep him at a distance and cherish exalted
thoughts of his brother. But she had
found it impossible. Strongly biassed
though she was against Gilbert, and for
Michael, she could not succeed in finding
Gilbert detestable. Reason as she would,
she could not make herself find him personally
disagreeable, or be bored, vexed,
or harassed by his company. He had
great power, she had had to confess 
power to make himself welcome, looked
for, agreeable, his opinion valuable, and
his influence desired ; while his marvellous
command over Otho called forth her gratitude,
and forced her into an attitude of
half-cordial, half-reluctant civility to him
and respect for him. It was the effort to
reconcile this Gilbert Langstroth who had
suddenly appeared in her life, with the
Gilbert Langstroth of years ago, of whom
and of whose treachery one uniform story
was everywhere told, that helped to make
her grave and gave a shade of embarrassment
to her manner towards him.

CHAPTER IX.

QUARREL.

The evening of the Bradstane concert at
last arrived. It was two days before
Christmas that this great event usually
took place,  an event spoken of by Mrs.
Johnson as though it had been a solemn
feast, with an appointed date in the Church's
year ; and it formed almost the most trying
of the many trying occasions which
chequered her earthly career. This
season, thanks to the valuable assistance
of Miss Askam in the dreary business
known as " decorating," Mrs. Johnson felt
her difficulties much lightened, and looked
forward to the evening's entertainment

with a kind of " rest-and-be-thankful "
feeling, rare indeed in her experience.

Eleanor felt less comfort than Mrs.
Johnson, in the anticipation of the evening.
She hardly knew how it was, or
with whom the invitation had originated,
whether with Otho, herself, or Magdalen's
self  but an invitation had certainly been
given to the latter to dine at Thorsgarth,
and go with the party from there to the
entertainment " The party " meant all of
them !  Eleanor, Magdalen, Gilbert, and
Otho. Eleanor had been unaffectedly
astonished when Otho had said he was
going. She had promised Mrs. Johnson
to be there herself, and did not intend
to fail her ; but she had expected to go
alone, call for the doctor's sister, Mrs.
Parker, on the way, and under the decent,
if not highly distinguished chaperonage
of that lady, sit through the concert, and
derive from it what enjoyment she might.
She had resolved to know nothing about

Gilbert and his arrangements, and to
ignore Magdalen, except by a bow, and
a few words. This new scheme had completely
changed the aspect of things. She
had had to send a note to Mrs. Parker
explaining that, so far from being alone,
she would have a party with her, and must
remain with them. And then there was
the prospect of the concert itself, and of
the company of her brother and Gilbert
Langstroth, and of Magdalen Wynter,*
who would, of course, join them as soon
as her part in the performance should be
over. It was a thoroughly painful prospect
to her ; not the less so, in that there was
absolutely no excuse for her shirking the
ceremony.

She returned to Thorsgarth from the
Vicarage, in the afternoon, and presently
went upstairs to dress for the evenings
entertainment. The most competent authorities
had assured her that at these
concerts it was the custom for the ladies

of the vicinity to go in full dress, or, at
any rate, in unmistakable evening dress,
in order to do honour to their town and
townspeople, and to show that they did
not labour under the idea that " anything
would do " for a Bradstane concert. Following
out this tradition, Miss Askam had
caused her maid to array her in a quaint-looking
but handsome gown of velvet and
brocade. She knew that dresses of this
kind, more splendid than airy, suited her,
and wore them by preference to any others.
She stood now before the toilet glass,
while her Abigail put the finishing touches
to the dress, right glad to see some of
the finery worn once again. It appeared
to her that her mistress's beauty, of which
she was proud, and her accomplishments,
of which she had heard people speak, were
utterly and entirely thrown away in a place
like this. Eleanor stood a little undecided
what ornaments to wear, when her maid
was summoned away, and presently returned,

bearing in her hand a bouquet,
with a card dangling from it.

"If you please, ma'am, I was to give
you this, with Mr. Langstroth's compliments."


Mr. Langstroth ! " suddenly exclaimed
Eleanor, a quick change coming over her
face ; and then, taking the flowers, she
lifted the card and read : " With Gilbert
Langstroth's compliments;" and just
below, " Miss Askam wished for some
double violets for this evening, which
G. L. hopes do not arrive too late to
be of use."

Eleanor had held her breath as she
perused these words ; she now breathed
again, quickly, and said, as she gave his
flowers again into her maid's hand 

Put them down, and just twist these
pearls through my hair. I shall wear
them, I think."

Yes, ma'am," said Louisa, and added
as she surveyed the flowers  "They're

vol. 11. 32

really lovely, ma'am. Could Mr. Lang-troth
have got them in England ? "

Of course he could. One can get
anything by sending to Covent Garden,"
replied her mistress hastily. " Pray be
quick, Louisa, for I hear that Miss Wynter
has come, and is waiting for me."

Louisa laid the flowers  exquisite double
violets, both blue and white, whose delicate
perfume had already made itself felt in
the warm air of the room  upon a table
and obeyed the injunction in silence.
Eleanor sat before the glass, with eyes
cast down, and feelings in which vague
apprehension and uncertainty were predominant.
Gilbert Langstroth had been
with them a fortnight  surely not a very
long time ; but in that fortnight he had
succeeded in making her feel that he was
a power, and a great one, in everything
that concerned her brothers affairs ; that if
she wished to have any permanent hold
upon Otho, she must take Otho's friend,

and that friend's will and pleasure into
account; that only by cutting herself entirely
adrift from Otho could she act or plan
without reference to Gilbert. That was
surely matter enough for consideration ;
and, in addition to that, she had begun to
feel during the last week, that Gilbert had
some idea of being a power in her affairs
too. She rebelled against this; she revolted
against it, but she trembled, and
she literally did not know what course to'
take. The appearance of the violets now,
only added to her embarrassment.

She was roused by Louisa's voice.

There, ma'am. These always suit you
better than anything else, and they go
perfectly with this dress. And I think, if
you would let me put a small bunch of
the violets here, in front of your dress,
instead of any more ornaments "

No, certainly not," said Eleanor hastily.
" I will not wear them." Then,
seeing a look of surprise at her vehemence,

she added hesitatingly, " I will carry them
in my hand. I  it would be a pity to
spoil the bouquet by taking any out of it ;
it is so beautifully arranged. Am I ready
now ? I will go down."

She went into the drawing-room, framing
in her mind some kind of apology for
being so late. But on entering the room
she found that Magdalen was not alone.
Otho was there with her. He was standing
on the hearth rug, ready dressed for
the evening, with his back against the
mantelpiece, and his hands clasped behind
him. There was a smile of anything buta
genial nature upon his lips, and his eyes
were fixed upon Miss Wynter with an
expression which struck Eleanor instantly
as being unusual, but which she could not
quite fathom. Magdalen was reposing ina
low chair, with her fan closed in her
hands, which were lightly folded one over
the other. She was tranquil, calm, unmoved
; her marble eyelids a little drooped,

and the faintest smile upon her lips. She
was looking marvellously handsome, in a
black velvet gown, and with scarlet geraniums
in her breast and hair.

I am sorry to have been so long incoming,
Miss Wynter. I really was kept
upstairs ; but I see Otho has been with
you, so you have not been entirely alone."

Perhaps it would have been better if I
had," responded Magdalen nonchalantly,
as she rose to shake hands with Eleanor.'
Otho and I have been quarrelling, and
when he quarrels no one can be more
nasty."

Eleanor smiled slightly, taking it for a
jest, and one in rather doubtful taste ; but
she was enlightened when Otho, with a
scowl significant of anything but jesting,
said with something like a snarl in his
voice 

You are right, Magdalen. ' Nasty '
is the word, and nasty you shall find me,
since this is the way you treat me."

Really," said Magdalen, with a taunting
little laugh, "how absurdly you talk !
Treat you in this way ! ' You are too
ridiculous ! "

Eleanor stood looking from one to the
other. Magdalen was still standing, speaking
lightly, in an attitude of careless grace,
and with a disdainful little smile upon her
lips ; but it seemed to Eleanor that there
was a strained look in her eyes.

Have you been really quarrelling ? "
she asked doubtfully. " Why, he thinks
so much of you."

I did," said Otho ; " but it's d d difficult
to go on thinking so much of a
woman who carries on as she does. She's
in my house now, and I hope I know what
is due to my guests ; but wait till we are
out of it, and on neutral ground, that's all."

Oh, Otho ! " began his sister, shocked.
But he had walked sullenly to the door,
and opened it. Then he turned and
looked towards them again.

Remember, Magdalen, you shall pay
me with interest for every bit of this
night's work, and that before long."

That will be as I choose," she retorted,
but her lips had grown thin. Otho was
banging out of the room, when Gilbert
Langstroth, coming in, caught hold of his
arm.

Now then, Otho, what is the matter ? "

Don't hold me ! " said Otho, looking
wrathfully at him. " I'm in a bad temper,
and you had best let me alone."

With which he left them, and Gilbert
came forward, looking a little seriously at
both the young women.

Miss Wynter," exclaimed Eleanor,
what can have happened, and what is to
be done ? "

Oh," said Magdalen, " pray don't heed
him. He will be all right again before the
evening is over."

Eleanor felt great doubt as to the correctness
of that theory, and was annoyed,

too, to hear Otho spoken of as if he had
been a petted child, who must be humoured,
though indeed, as she had to
admit to herself, his behaviour gave only
too good ground for such treatment. And
despite Magdalen's lofty words, she seemed
not able to cast off the constraint left by
the late disagreeable scene ; but, picking
up the Spectator > opened it as wide as it
would unfold, and seemed to read it.
Eleanor felt her eyes turn involuntarily
towards Gilbert ; it was not that she
wished to appeal to him, but she was intensely
conscious that he alone was capable
of giving counsel (if counsel were to be
had) in such a situation, and she looked
at him, just as one would send for the
nearest doctor, if one were attacked by
some strange and inexplicable illness.
She found his eyes also fixed upon hers,
attentively, carefully, and admiringly. She
felt with a cold thrill of certainty that
what she had suspected and feared was

true, and he was now thinking of her, and
not of either Magdalen or Otho.

He handed her a chair, and seated himself
beside her. His very first words only
heightened her uneasiness.

I hope you did not think me too
officious in sending for the violets," he
said in a low voice.

Magdalen lowered her paper, and gave
him a look, which he received and returned ;
and, with a dark expression on her face,
she resumed her ostensible occupation.
Perhaps Gilbert knew all about what had
passed, and was mocking her futile efforts
to appear unconcerned. Magdalen had
always felt that Gilbert's sin and hers had
had such very unequally meted rewards.
He had been so successful after his sin,
and she had failed so wretchedly and so
tantalizingly after hers.

"Officious  no. They are beautiful
flowers' said Eleanor uneasily. " It was
very kind to take so much trouble ; for,
after all, it was only a whim of mine."

You have so few whims, that when
one is vouchsafed a hint of one, one is
only too glad to gratify it."

Oh, I hope I am not so exacting as
to expect such gratifications. . . . I  will
Otho  what is Otho doing just now, do
you think ? " she added, in a still lower
voice, unable to shake off the disagreeable
impression she had derived from his look
and words.

Don't trouble yourself about Otho,"
rejoined Gilbert, in the same tone, but ina
still lower voice. " Do not let any
thought of him disturb your enjoyment
this evening."

Enjoyment ; do you suppose I am
expecting enjoyment ! " Eleanor had exclaimed
almost before she knew what
she was saying.

If you cannot have it, no one else
deserves a grain of it," said Gilbert deliberately.
" But, really, I wish you would
calm your fears. Just let us reason about

it. What can Otho possibly do to-night,
that can cause you any uneasiness ? We
shall go straight to the concert-room, and
once there, he is safe."

a He may not go at all."

Well, if he does not, you will ; and why
should you allow your mind to be engaged
in imagining him doing something disagreeable
? Your apprehensions are exaggerated,
I assure you. Tell me what
you are afraid of."

He said," replied Eleanor, almost ina
whisper, so that Magdalen could not
possibly hear, " that he would make her
repent, and that before long. I thought
he might, perhaps, if he went to-night, say
or do something rude  or at dinner  I do
not know what he will do when he looks
so dangerous."

Gilbert laughed a low laugh, speaking
of amusement and enjoyment too.

11 Otho has other methods of punishing
her," he said. " Do not alarm yourself ;

I will see to it. And "  he bent his head
close to hers, and her fingers tightened
one over the other  " please excuse the
question ; but I always see two sides of
a thing. Do you mean to tell me that
you would be very sorry for her to be
punished, a little, if it could be done unobtrusively
? "

Gilbert certainly knew what he was
about when he asked this question. The
eyes that were suddenly lifted towards his
own held confession in their glance. She
shook her head silently ; but the very
silence implied that he had guessed aright.

I thought you might have whims for
other things, as well as double violets,"
said Gilbert, with a slight smile, which
made her feel that he was very much
stronger than she was, and very much
better acquainted with human nature. She
was silent ; but Gilbert had got an object
to gain, and he said, " You owe me some
little reward for having guessed so correctly.

Won't you tell me what you have
done with those flowers ? "

I  oh, I left them in my room."

There to wither and die, I suppose ?
Poor things ! I have a great weakness
for flowers  those flowers, especially. If
you dislike them, will you do me the cruel
favour to return them ? I mean it, really."

"But I do not dislike them. I  it  I
thought I would carry them in my hand
to-night," she said, distracted at the extent
of the concessions he was wringing from
her, but perfectly aware that when he
promised to see that Otho behaved himself,
and then began instantly to talk about
violets, he conveyed a hint which she must
accept on pain of his displeasure.

You did ! I could not possibly wish
for more than that," he said, and there was
triumph, intense, if repressed, in his smile
and his tone.

Eleanor could only feel wretched, and
wish she were a hundred miles away from

Bradstane ; all the more fervently when,
on looking up, she found that Magdalen
had laid the newspaper down, and was
looking at her with a mocking smile  the
smile of one who, being in difficulties
herself, was not sorry to see someone
else entangled.

Here the door opened. Otho came in,
with Barlow behind him, to announce
dinner. The master of the house offered,
his arm to Miss Wynter, who took it,
treating him with what seemed a composed
cheerfulness. During the meal, Otho was
portentously gentle and polite to everyone
he addressed. There was no trace invoice
or manner of his late anger ; only
in the sullen glow which still lurked in his
eyes. Eleanor, who had acquired the sad
habitude of noticing such things, observed
that he scarcely touched wine. In his
whole demeanour there was a most unusual
softness and courtesy. She could
not shake off her constraint ; the shock of

the unbridled fury which she had seen on
his face when she had gone into the 
was not to be easily obliterated.
Never before had she felt so strongly his
likeness, with all his goodly outward apparel
of strength and a kind of beauty,
to some savage, wild creature  some beast
of prey, whose spirit sat in his heart, and
looked out of the windows of his eyes.
With all the dread and foreboding that he
had begun to inspire in her, she always
thought of him as " poor Otho."

CHAPTER X.

OTHO'S REVENGE.

When Michael Langstroth went into the
concert-room that night, rather late, he
found the place crowded with an audience,
watchful and attentive as only country
audiences can be, all in their war-paint
and feathers, as Roger remarked, and the
choir, in a row on the platform, lustily
singing of how

The oak and the ash and the bonny ivy tree,
They grow the best at home, in the north countries."

Going up the room, he found himself
near the top of it without having found a
seat, and he stood looking about him, when
a demonstration a little to one side caused

him to turn, and he saw a small, lean hand
beckoning to him, and a thin, eager-looking
face, brimming over with pleasure,
asking him, as loudly as silent expressiveness
can ask, to come and sit beside her,
and, what was more to the purpose, pointing
out a space close to her for his accommodation.
It was his little patient, Effie
Johnson, radiant in the proud consciousness
of a new frock, and an unheard of
treat  that of being the only one of her
brethren and sisters privileged to be present
at the concert. He nodded and
smiled, and gradually made his way to
her, receiving many a greeting on his way
from " all sorts and conditions " of men
and women. Effie was on a side-bench, he
found, and his place was beside her ; but it
was a side-bench at the end nearest the
platform. Her mother sat at one side of
her, and greeted Michael with a nod, and
an unusually serene smile. When he was
seated, Michael found that amongst his
vol. n. 33

near neighbours were Eleanor Askam, who
had found a seat beside Mrs. Parker, after
all ; and beside Miss Askam, his brother
Gilbert. He did not see either Otho or
Miss Wynter, and was a little puzzled ; for
Dr. Rowntree had told him of Eleanor's
note to his sister, explaining why she could
not go with her.

If he did not see Magdalen or Otho, he
did see very distinctly upon Eleanorss face
an expression of gravity and even anxiety,
impossible to be mistaken ; a very different
expression from the one of hope and
strength and light-heartedness which she
had worn when he had first seen her.
Gilbert's countenance wore an expression
of composure and even contentment.

Michael sat still, and the crowded,
lighted room, and loud voices of the
singers seemed to disappear. He was
alone with his brother. In all the years
that had passed since his breaking with
Gilbert, in all the occasions on which Gilbert

had been in Bradstane since then,
they had never met thus closely, and, as it
were, side by side. A deep oppression
came over Michael's heart. What was
this thing that he felt ? He scarcely
seemed to himself the same man he had
been, even five minutes ago. Gilbert and
Eleanor, sitting side by side, and, as it
were, alone ; that was all of which he was
really conscious.

Where have you been for such a longtime,
Dr. Langstroth ? " whispered Effie,
as she nestled up to his side with the
confidence of childhood  that confidence
which is seldom at fault.

I have been very busy, Effie, and I
have neglected you. I am going to amend
my conduct very soon."

But you never forget us, do you ? "
said Effie.

No, I never forget you, my child ; I
will come and see you soon."

Contented, she was silent, and observed

the scene with her bright, keen childish
eyes looking from her little thin face.

Michael was uneasy and unhappy. At
last, unable to endure his suspense any
longer, he leaned over to Mrs. Johnson,
and asked, in a cautious undertone 

Have not Otho Askam and Miss
Wynter come ? "

Yes," she replied, in the same tone,
and with a significant look. " They have
both gone into the room where the performers
wait. Some people think he is
going to volunteer a song'

Michael nodded, as if satisfied with the
explanation. He could not help giving a
glance towards Eleanor, and he saw that
the look of unease on her countenance had
deepened. She looked constrained and
uneasy. Just at that moment, Gilbert bent
over her and said something to her, with
a smile, and as he spoke to her, he raised
his eyes, and encountered those of
Michael. Michael felt, he knew not what,

as he met that glance. Was it anger, or
grief, or pain that clutched him ? It was
a hot and burning feeling, which seemed
to surge up within him. He did not know 
yet  what it was, but he felt as if he must
at all risks avoid meeting Gilbert's eyes
again. He had never experienced pain
like this in any meeting with Magdalen,
after their separation. He had thought
that he had put Gilbert away from him
altogether ; that he had become no more
to him than Magdalen, or than the merest
stranger on the road. This terrible
emotional disturbance showed him that he
had been wrong. But how ? What did it
import ?

The next thing he saw, just as the
closing notes of the glee were sounding,
was Roger Camm, who walked quickly up
the room, and went into the waiting-room,
spoken of by Mrs. Johnson. Then the
music ceased; the singers received their
meed of applause and left the stage, and

then there was a little pause, which was, of
course, employed as such pauses usually
are, in a general uprising, talking, questioning,
and laughing. It was wearisome to
Michael, who, while anxious above all
things to avoid looking at Gilbert again,
could still not avoid having his eyes
drawn in Eleanor's direction. She
recognized and greeted him gravely, but, ashe
keenly felt, not indifferently. She was
still, as he could not but see, practically
alone with Gilbert, as neither Otho nor
Magdalen made their appearance, and
Mrs. Parker strayed away to converse with
her friends. Then he saw some neighbours
 some of those " charity blanket
Blundell girls," as Otho gracefully called
them, and poor Sir Thomas Winthrop
(glaring distrustfully at Gilbert, who stood
erect and half-smiling, all the while), came
and talked to her, and Michael did not
move from his place, but sat still, listening
vaguely to Effie's prattle, and feeling

again and again the same strange, strong
and painful feeling shake him from head
to foot. Then people began to go back
to their places. The noise and bustle
settled down, the pause was over. The
next thing was a round of applause, and
Michael, looking up, saw that Roger
Camm had appeared upon the platform,
and was going to the piano with some
music in his hand. It was Michael's turn to
begin to feel uneasy, when he saw Roger's
face. There was a savage scowl upon it ;
no holiday expression, but one of the
darkest anger and displeasure. He looked
neither right nor left, but marched straight
to the piano, seated himself, and struck
some chords, as if to try the instrument ;
then sat and waited. Michael consulted
his programme, and found that the piece was
a duet for soprano and contralto, and that
the singers were Miss Wynter and Miss
Ada Dixon. For the first time he began
to connect Eleanor's anxious look, and

Roger's angry expression with the words
Mrs. Johnson had spoken about Otho and
Magdalen having gone together into the
little room where the performers waited.

At that moment there was more clapping,
and then appeared what seemed to
Michael the key to both the black frown
and the anxious looks which he had seen.
From the room which opened on to the
platform, and where they had been waiting,
emerged three persons. First came
Ada Dixon, who, as soprano, entered first ;
and leading her by the hand in the most
approved fashion, and with every manifestation
of devotion, admiration, and respect,
Otho Askam, who, all the time that
he led the girl forward, was stooping
towards her, and saying something that
caused her to simper, and mince her steps
in a manner at once gratified, nervous,
and self-important. The nervousness was
quite visible, but the gratification and self-importance
outweighed it. Ada evidently

felt herself a star of the first magnitude 
the personage of the evening, and was
swelling with conscious pride in thus being
singled out for honourable distinction.
Michael at first only saw the broadly
farcical side of the affair, and was inclined
to burst into a shout of laughter ; but, as
these two first figures advanced to the
front, and the other became fully visible,
he at once began to realize that there was
a very different side to the picture, and
that it might prove anything but a laughing
matter to those concerned.

Magdalen was perfectly alone, perfectly
dignified and composed in her demeanour.
With marvellous dexterity she contrived
to throw something into her manner which
placed an immeasurable distance between
herself and the two buffoons on whose
steps circumstances caused her to follow.
The audience might stare and gape, laugh
and point the finger at them ; it was impossible
to do so at her. She walked

straight to her place, and stood there,
facing the audience, unmoved, and apparently
immovable, while Otho, with a
final flourish of his hand, presented Miss
Dixon with her music, and retired to
a chair at the back of the platform, apparently
to be ready to hand her back
again when the performance was over.
Ada turned, laid her handkerchief upon
the piano, after the most approved manner
of distinguished artistes, and  climax of
impudence, thought Michael, who was now
watching every movement of the actors in
this tragi-comedy with the interest interest
 nodded to Roger to begin. He
looked at her with his deep-set eyes from
his white face  for it was quite white, and
Michael knew the storm that was raging
beneath the impassive expression  looked
at her thus, and began.

During the playing of the symphony
Ada looked at Miss Wynter, and tried to
catch her eye  in vain. The distinguished

soprano fumbled with her gloves and her
music, and looked ill at ease, despite the
great glory which had so unexpectedly (to
the spectators, at any rate) descended upon
her. Miss Wynter, heeding her no more
than if she had been a spider on the wall,
stood in calm and motionless dignity, her
hands lightly folded in front of her; her
eyes, cool and calm and unembarrassed,
moving deliberately from one face to the
other of the audience  perfectly able to
stand alone before them all, even under an
open slight, even while a man who was
spoken of, far and wide, as her particular
friend, flouted her, in the faces of the
assembled county, in favour of a chit like
Ada Dixon. In a negative, analytical way,
Michael could not but respect her  respect,
at any rate, the undaunted fortitude of
the front she presented. And when her
eyes met his, and her set lips quivered
for a second, he rendered homage to her
bravery, by a grave and respectful bow.

The duet began ; it seemed hours
before it was over, but it was finished
at last ; and then the same grotesque
performance was gone through, as had
taken place before, but that this time
Magdalen, calmly sweeping past Otho and
Ada, left them behind, and walked first
into the waiting-room behind the scenes.
Then Otho and Ada disappeared, hand in
hand, as before; and as before, Michael
felt a wild inclination to burst into peal
after peal of laughter  inextinguishable
laughter, which inclination was once more
checked by the sight of Roger's white
and wrathful face, as he picked up some
sheets of music, and disappeared in his
turn.

All this had taken place in so public a
manner that no one present could fail to
be cognizant of it all, and it had been
watched with breathless interest and
suspense by the whole audience, who, when
the actors in the scene had disappeared,

seemed as it were to draw a long breath ;
and then there burst forth a perfect storm
of talk, comments, and laughter. This
laughter jarred upon Michael's even-nerve.
Though he knew what a vulgar
farce it all was, and had seen its ludicrous
side easily enough, yet he could not bear
that others should make merry over it,
and he could imagine only too well what
it must be as it beat upon Eleanor's brain.
He refrained at first from even looking
at her ; but at last his fascinated mind drew
his eyes in her direction, and he saw that
she had made a movement as if to rise
and go. She was younger than Magdalen,
he reflected, and not so hardened to the
standing boldly in a false position. She
wanted to get away from this, naturally,
and she intended to 0 ; he saw it in her
look, and saw, too, how Mrs. Parker's
hurried expostulation was of no avail.
Then he saw Gilbert for a moment lay
his hand upon her wrist, and say something

in a low voice  only a few words, but
they had the effect of making her sit down
again, with a look of indignant resignation
on her face.

Michael never knew how the performance
came to an end. The things he had seen
had set him in a state of great agitation.
What he saw afterwards only made him
feel more bewildered and more anxious.
After the first part of the concert, Otho reappeared,
and Magdalen with him. She
was walking alone, and had nothing to sav
to him. She took a seat beside Eleanor,
who appeared to exert herself to talk to her.
Of course, Michael reflected, it was out of
the question that Miss Askam should even
appear to countenance her brother's behaviour
; and Magdalen, being the insulted
person, had to be treated with courtesy and
apparent cordiality. He could imagine
with what an effort this courtesy would
be displayed, and he thought she played
her part very well.

Otho was seated at the other side of
Magdalen, and he occasionally addressed
her. She answered him gravely, but with
a cold politeness. Michael could not
understand it.

He was an involuntary witness of one
other scene in the drama. In the throng,
going out, he found himself near the
Thorsgarth party ; saw Gilbert fold Eleanor's
cloak about her, and overheard what
was said amongst them.

"Miss Wynter," inquired Eleanor, " how
are you going to get home ? "

The brougham will be there for me,
thank you."

Oh, that is all right, then. Because
we could have driven you round, if "

My dear Miss Askam ! Five miles
round, on such a night ! They say it is
snowing."

Here Michael saw that Otho fixed his
eyes upon Magdalen's face, and without
speaking, offered her his arm. Michael

watched, with a neutral but strong interest,
to see what she would do. She took the
offered arm, without any smile, certainly,
but without any appearance of being angry
or offended. Neither of them spoke. They
dropped behind Gilbert and Eleanor, who
were also arm in arm.

Then when they stood outside, Michael,
pausing to see if Roger would join him
again, heard Miss Askam's voice 

There is our carriage. We had better
let it go round again, and wait till Miss
Wynter has got off, as she is alone."

No," said Otho, signing to the Thorns
coachman to stop. " You get in,
Eleanor ; Langstroth will look after you.
I'm going to see Magdalen home."

Otho ! " exclaimed his sister, in a
vehement whisper, " how can you behave
in this manner ? "

But Magdalen appeared to accept the
announcement with the utmost calm,
saying  

Well, there is the carnage, Otho,
coming after yours."

Then Michael saw how Gilbert led
Eleanor, who looked like a person in a
dream, to her carriage; handed her in,
followed her, and they were driven away.
Michael, before stepping forth himself, gave
a glance at the figures of the other two ; saw
Otho say something with a laugh to Magdalen.
Then the Balder Hall brougham
drove up. Michael waited no longer. It
was evident that Roger must have gone
when Ada did. It was useless to wait for.
him, and he took his way home.

VOL. II. 34

CHAPTER XL

IN THE ANTE-ROOM.

When the Thorsgarth party arrived at the
concert-room, before all the disturbance
had taken place, Magdalen went straight
to that waiting-room where the performers
sat, and which was just behind the platform.
She walked quickly thither, and did
not know, until she had entered the room,
that Otho had followed her. But on
turning to close the door, she saw him
there, and he walked in after her, not looking
at her at all, but casting a quick glance
round the room, to see who might be
already present.

Those who were there, were Ada Dixon,

and one or two other girls who belonged to
the choir, and were going to assist in the
part-songs. Ada looked very pretty, if a
little commonplace and vulgar, in her blue
frock, and white fleecy shawl. She sat
apart from her companions in solitary
dignity, and appeared to be studying her
song ; and it was in this situation that
Magdalen and Otho found her. Ada
looked up as they came in, and rose with
a heightened colour. Magdalen took no
notice of Otho, but shook hands with Ada.

Well, Ada, how are you, and how is
your song ? "

Oh, I'm ready with mine, thank you,
Miss Wynter ; and there's no need to ask
you about yours."

Good evening, Miss Dixon," here said
Otho, and he too advanced, and shook
hands with her. Ada looked both alarmed
and conscious. He had never done this
before  at least, in Magdalen's presence.

So long as you are here," pursued

Otho, addressing Ada, " things cannot go
very far wrong."

Oh, Mr. Askam, what nonsense ! " said
the girl, half-pleased, half-confused, and
wholly astonished, at this public manifestation
of favour and interest. She gave a
furtive glance behind her, and was not displeased
to find that the audience had been
augmented by the arrival of more youths
and maidens.

Otho," observed Magdalen, in her clear,
low tones, " excuse me if I remind you that
this room is set apart for those who take
part in the performance, and I don't think
you ought to be here."

I'm going to take part in the performance,"
said Otho, throwing his head back,
and flashing a curious glance upon her  a
glance which Ada saw, and in her silly little
soul at once decided that Otho was paying
her more attention than was agreeable to
Miss Wynter. That was delightful to her,
and she simpered complacently.

You ! " exclaimed Magdalen, who had
also seen the glance, and who had hardwork
not to betray the tremulousness she
felt.

u Yes, of course," said Otho carelessly.
What's to prevent me if I choose ? "

He brought forward a chair, and placed
it for her with a polite bow, and a wave
of his hand, inviting her to be seated.
Magdalen behaved as if she were paralyzed,
as in truth she was, in a manner. She had
absolutely no precedent from which to
judge the meaning of Otho's conduct just
now. She had studied him, humoured
him, flattered him, made him the object of
her supreme interest and supreme attention,
for more than five years ; and within the
last year, she had begun to confess that
her pains had been in vain*  that he had
never intended to proceed to anything
more than friendship, and was not likely
now to change his mind. And then her
own deeds had avenged themselves upon

her, for in confessing this, she had suffered
tortures, and in trying to act upon it, and
to shake off her intimacy with him, she had
found that she could not. He had made
himself master of what heart she possessed.
Her resistance this evening to a demand
of his had cost her a pang, and this conduct
of his, in consequence, bewildered her.
She was thrown off her guard ; she felt that
she was groping in a fog, and she knew
not how to battle with him. She repented
her now, in her soul, of having thwarted
him just to-night, since this was the way
in which he chose to revenge himself. She
could see nothing except to maintain an
unruffled personal dignity, which she knew
came easily to her, and, if necessary, to
retire altogether from the arena. She was
calculating altogether without her host in
the matter, as Otho soon proved to her.

She took the chair he offered her, and
sat down ; and then Otho, taking no
further present notice of her, turned to

Ada, and, under Magdalen's eyes, proceeded
to inaugurate a flirtation with
the young girl, in the most outrageously
bad taste, and with a persistency and
determination from which, as Magdalen
very well saw, a more resolute girl than
Ada could with difficulty have withdrawn
herself. The only method of resistance
would have been for the object of his
attentions to close her lips, and entirely
refuse to converse with him ; and that, of
course, was a method which did not for a
moment occur to Ada, whose inflammable
vanity, utterly unbalanced by commonsense,
took fire at his attentions, and
construed them into proofs of the most
flattering regard.

Magdalen sat quite passive under this
behaviour until the choir had gone to the
concert-room, to sing their glee about " the
oak and the ash, and the bonny ivy tree,"
and then she said, coldly and deliberately 

Ada, I want to speak to you."

Oh, never mind her ! " said Otho carelessly,
almost contemptuously. " A sermon
should not come before a song, especially
such a song as Miss Dixon is going to
give us."

But old habit was yet strong in Ada.
Never before had Miss Wynter addressed
her without receiving instant and profound
attention, and she received it now. Ada
gave it almost instinctively.

What is it, Miss Wynter ?" she asked.

Only this, that I don't know what Mr.
Askam means by behaving as he is doing,
and I am quite sure you do not ; but one
thing is certain,  that Mr. Roger Camm
will be here directly, and I would advise
you to moderate your transports, and
behave a little more like a reasonable being
before he comes."

Roger Camm, indeed ! " exclaimed
Ada, nettled. " He's not my master yet,
nor ever will be, Miss Wynter. He may
come twenty times for aught I care."

Never before had she addressed Magdalen
in such a tone. It would appear
that the latter was in earnest in her remonstrance,
for she now appealed to Otho.

Listen to me, Otho. If you are conducting
yourself in this way in order to
vex me, you have quite succeeded. I'm
ready to own it, and I will give you whatever
explanation you like after this is over ;
but for heaven's sake go back into the
concert room before Roger Camm comes.
You have no right to behave as you are
doing, and he will very speedily let you
know that he thinks so."

Right ! " exclaimed Otho, with a laugh.
I never ask about right. I do what I
have a fancy for."

Pray what harm can Roger say of
me ! " said Ada pettishly.

I would rather ask, what good he can
say of you, if you let him see you making
yourself ridiculous in this fashion. In any
case, you belong to him, and "

Not yet ! " exclaimed both Otho and
Ada in one voice. Magdalen looked at
them both, and showed what was with hera
rare sign, betokening strong emotion  a
heightened colour in her cheeks.

"Otho' she said, slowly and deliberately,
and with a glitter in her eyes, " I believe
you are a downright bad man ; and, Ada,
I am certain now that you are a complete
fool. You are both doing what you will
rue to the last day of your lives." Magdalen
spoke with a suppressed passion, so
unusual with her as to cause her physical
pain in the effort to control it  passion
which would have astounded Otho now, if
he had not been too angrily determined todo
his own way to heed her.

To the last day of your lives," she
repeated. " But I have spoken, and I
leave it between you. I wash my hands
of you both."

She got up, and went to another chair at
the extreme end of the room, and seating

herself at the table, rested her chin on her
hand, and fixed her eyes on the floor.
Otho whispered something to Ada, who
was not quite so happy as she had been,
now that she had heard the denunciations
of Magdalen. While he stooped towards
her, and she was laughing in a nervously
pleased manner at his words, the suddenly
opened door let in a louder burst of music
from the front. It was closed again.

Oh, I'm not so late, after all," began
Roger Camm's voice, and then he came
to a dead stop, looking from one to the
other, speechless. Otho, who was leaning
over the back of Ada's chair, raised his
head as Roger entered, and looked at him
with the disagreeable smile which showed
his white teeth and his frowning brows.

Good evening, Camm," he said carelessly,
and in so condescending a tone that
Magdalen looked up.

Roger advanced a step.

What does this mean ? " he asked, and

his hands had clenched themselves, and
his face had grown pale.

What does what mean ? " asked Ada.
laughing flippantly, to conceal her dismay.

What are you doing here ? " asked
Roger, standing directly in front of Otho,
and looking at him with a frown as black
as night.

"What I please," replied Otho insolently,
and not raising himself from his too
familiar attitude.

That is an odd answer to give me,"
observed, Roger incisively, " when you are
apparently amusing yourself with my
future wife."

Roger ! " exclaimed Ada, flushing
fiercely, and speaking in a choked voice.

Ha, ha ! " laughed Otho.

At this juncture Magdalen again rose,
and came forward once more. She was
pale even to her lips, and she walked up to
Roger Camm, laid her hand upon his arm,
and said 

Mr. Camm, you must listen to me. I
believe I am the cause of this scene, but
I swear it is without fault of mine that it
has arisen. He wished me to promise
him, earlier in the evening, when I was at
his house, that I would let him hand me
on to the stage when our song came, and
said he would remain in this room while
I was here. I said he had nothing to do
with the concert, and that I would not
consent to it. He replied that he would
have his revenge  very manly and nice of
him, of course. I suppose this is it, and
I must say it seems pitiful to me. If I
had known, nothing would have induced
me to come here. I can only say he is
beside himself, and "

That will scarcely do," said Roger,
turning away. "He is not acknowledged
as a lunatic yet, nor shut up, whatever he
ought to be, and I will thank him "

Here the door was again opened, and
all the performers came into the room.
Magdalen said imploringly to Roger 

Please go and play the prelude. I
will make him behave himself."

There was no time to be lost, and
Roger, after hesitating a second or two,
followed her directions. Magdalen turned
to Otho. For once she found him deaf
and senseless to her words. She bade him
go to the concert-room. He flatly refused
to do so, with a bow and a smile. She
said she would not go in herself, if he did
not do as she told him ; to which he replied,
that in that case he would himself
go forward, and say that since Miss
Wynter was in a bad temper and refused
to sing, he offered himself as a substitute.
All this passed in low tones, the pantomime
being eagerly watched by those who
had come in, and who could see the
gestures of the speakers and their faces,
without hearing their words.

The man's vindictive determination
prevailed. If he were mad there was
method in his madness. He was prepared

to throw all appearances to the
winds, and to say or do whatever came
uppermost. Magdalen was not ; and
she had little time in which to decide.
Otho offered his arm to Ada, and they
went on to the stage in the order before
spoken of.

When they all returned to the anteroom,
Ada was more uneasy and less
triumphant than she had been ; and
greatly embarrassed too, by Otho's marked
attentions in the face of the other performers,
who, so far from being awestruck
at the distinction conferred upon her,
seemed to be tittering amongst themselves
at the absurdity of the whole affair.

Roger walked up to Ada, and asked
her gravely and quietly if she had to sing
again. ,

No, Roger," said she, in a subdued
voice.

Then I think you' had better let me
take you home," he said gently, and

offered her his arm. Ada took it instantly.


Oh, nonsense ! " began Otho. " We
can't do with that. She "

Be good enough to stand out of the
way," said Roger, fixing his eyes upon
him with a steady look that boded anything
but peace between them in the
future. " I will take Miss Dixon home
now. There has been foolery enough
to-night. I will settle with you tomorrow."



This promise was given heartily enough,
if in a low voice ' Otho, with a sneering
laugh, let him p;'ss, and then turned to
Magdalen.

1 suppose you are not too overcome
to go into the other room," he said.
Shall I take you there . "

I shall go when I am ready," replied
Magdalen coldly. " You are at liberty
to go as soon as ever you please "

"Not I ! " said he, throwing himself

into a chair near to her. " I've worked
hard enough to get your society. I'm
not going to quit it the instant I have
secured it."

Here the choir were again summoned
to the front, and they were left alone.
Otho had spoken of having worked hard
to obtain Magdalen's company, but he
sat in silence till towards the end of the
chorus, when, as it was the last thing in
the first part of the concert, Magdalen
rose, and began to gather up her shawl.

"Now I shall go," she remarked.

All right ! " said he. " But listen tome,
Magdalen ; you must let me see you
home, and I'll tell you the meaning of
this."

As if I required to know the meaning
of it ! " she said bitterly. "It is pure
malice and viciousness on your part, Otho.
Meaning, indeed ! "

You know nothing in the world about
it."

VOL. II, 35

I cannot talk about it now. I am not
going to enter into an argument with you.
You have made me feel ill already."

Then settle matters by promising that
I shall go home with you ; or I vow you
shall hear me in this very room. I intend
to have it out with you to-night, do you
hear ? "

Very well  as we go home," said
Magdalen very coldly.

And, as the door opened to admit the
returning performers, and the interval had
begun, they took their way to the concert-room,
and joined their party.

CHAPTER XII.

HER HEART'S DESIRE.

When the Thorsgarth carnage had driven
away, and the Balder Hall one came up,
Otho handed Magdalen in, followed her,
shut the window, and turned to her.
After the bright light around the 
door, they seemed suddenly to
plunge into utter and outer darkness, and
Magdalen was glad of it, for she would
not have had Otho see her face now fora
great deal of money,  perhaps not even
if his seeing it would have secured to her
the object for which she had toiled so
long and so unsuccessfully  the position
of his wife. She did not know what he

was going to say to her, but she believed
she could guess. She believed that the
new line she had lately taken towards
him  to-night, and on one or two other
occasions recently  had so angered his
imperious and exacting temper that he
was now going to tell her that their
friendship was at an end, unless she
would submit to take a lower position
with regard to him than she had yet
done. She knew  she had been so unhappy
as to have to consider the subject,
in reckoning with herself about Otho and
his " intentions "  she knew that she had
no " dishonourable " proposal to fear from
him. She had maintained always a footing
distinctly forbidding such possibilities ;
but she dreaded and feared that he had
shaken off what influence she had had
over him  that he found he could exist
without the counsel and advice for which
he had often come to her, and which he
professed, had often been of service to

him. She believed he was angry that
she had dared to thwart him in a whim
which he considered to be harmless, and
a kind of amusing joke, and that after
making the bizarre and humiliating exhibition
of himself, her, and Ada, which
he had accomplished this evening, he was
now going to let her understand that he
was about to shake off her influence once
and for all. And what was it that she
experienced in this idea ? Scarcely what
might have been expected. Neither anger,
contempt, nor indignation, but grief, sorrow,
soreness ; a yearning unwillingness to
part, and a dread of the days when she
should not see him ; an almost passionate
speculation as to whether she could not .
concede something  keep the man at her
side, somehow.

Thus she was glad when the darkness
hid her face. He could not see the thrill
that shot through her, as she wondered
what the next half hour was to bring forth

for her, and she managed to control her
voice, and to say calmly 

Pray be quick. I do not know why I
have granted you this favour at all. It is
far beyond your deserts."

As for that, there may be two opinions.
If you'd heard me out to-night, instead of
pouncing upon me as you did "

Do not allude to that. It is over, and
I have not repented my refusal to you.
It was quite obvious what people thought
when you appeared with that girl on your
arm. Not for worlds would I have put
myself into such a position."

Position  position ! You spit out that
word just as women do when they want to
make out that their dearest friend is doing
something bad. I've heard that your
friendship is a dangerous kind of thing,
Magdalen, but I have never heeded such
reports. I don't know whether they are
true or not, but I know you have often
talked a lot about friendship, and the

duty of sticking to your friend when you
have got one. I wondered whether you
dared show every one that you were my
friend to-night."

Absurd ! To show myself your friend
in that fashion means one of two things 
either that I am engaged to be married to
you, or else that I show myself a bold,
vulgar woman, whom any other man might
well be afraid to marry. That is not
friendship ; it is senseless bravado ; it is
being loud and fast, and all to no purpose.
Such a proceeding could serve no possible
end."

I know that. Do you think I am a
fool ? " said he. " But when you began
to pitch into me, without losing any time,
you made me so wild, that I was resolved
to pay you out, cost what it might. Magdalen

" his voice sank, and it thrilled

through her, and with it a sense of dread
and terror, and the miserable consciousness
that she, who had so long contrived

to have the reins in her own hands, was
now the one to be dominated with bit and
bridle, and made to turn this way and that,
at the will of another. She listened, stooping
a little forward, in a crouching attitude,
waiting to hear her doom. " I've got what
they call a bad character. Whatever it is,
good or bad, it is a pretty correct estimate
they have made of me. They'll tell you
that I drink, and I dice, and I bet. So I
do, and like them all; and, of course, they'll
tell you I'm no fitting husband for a decent
woman. As for decent, I know nothing ;
but from what I've seen of women, I
should judge it wanted a bold one to
undertake me. If you would, Magdalen
Magdalen ! I don't say I'd make you
happy, for I know I should make you
miserable, but whatever I seemed  I can't
always answer for myself  whatever I
seemed, I'd love you to the end of my
life, ten times better than I do now.
Dare you do it ? "

Silence. The carnage rolled softly on
over the snowy road. Otho had seized
hold of her two hands. His face she could
not see, but she heard his breath, laboured
and heavy. A very strange, wild sensation
surged through her whole being. As
in a flash of lightning, in a kind of revelation,
she seemed to see all the terrible
possibilities of the dim future  all that
could be implied by his " dare you do it ? "
He did not urge her when she did not
answer ; his passion seemed to have softened
into patience. He waited and waited
for her to reply.

Otho ! "  her face almost touched his
as she spoke  " I know what you are. I
have been trying to tear you out of my
heart. I did not want you there. I cannot
kill the love I have for you. I dare
do anything for you."

As she ceased to speak, their lips met
in a clinging kiss  a kiss which bound
their two fates together from henceforth,

for evermore, and which made her heart
beat chokingly with terror and passion, but
which was utterly devoid of the joy and
springing rapture it might have had.
When Magdalen said, " I know what you
are," she spoke the truth. She was nearly
a year older than he was, and had all her
life seen very clearly out of her passive
eyes. When he said, " Dare you do it ? "
that meant, and she knew that it meant,
not that he was going to give up his evil
ways for her sake, and try to become mild
and human and gentle, and a fitting husband
for a civilized lady, but that she
accepted his evil ways along with himself,
and endured them as best she might.

They sat silent for a while after this,
till at last he said 

Magdalen ! "

Well ? "

You are not a good young woman, you
know. You have not always stuck to
people as you promised you would. They

say  every one says  that you jilted
Michael Langstroth,  did not keep your
promises to him, you know."

They say what is quite true ; and
Michael Langstroth may thank me if I
did jilt him. He was not made for me,
nor I for him. I dare say he knows it
by now."

He took his dismissal," pursued Otho,
with a sneer, " and never raised his hand.
But let me advise you not to try that
game with me, or there might be murder
done, or something as bad. I'm not
Michael Langstroth. Do you understand
? "

He spoke in a fierce whisper, and in
Magdalen's laugh, as she answered him,
there was a hysterical sound.

Do you suppose I don't know that !
For every one of Michael Langstroth's
good qualities, you have half a dozen bad
ones. If you wasted your whole life in
trying, you could never get as much goodness

into your whole body as he has in
his little finger ; and oh, how tired I was
of it  how tired I was, before it was allover."


Hem ! Well, I can promise that you
shall never tire of my oppressive goodness
and piety  that's all."

I know you are a complete pagan ;
sometimes I think I am too. There's one
thing, Otho  you must not ask me to
marry you yet ; my aunt would faint at
the idea that I was engaged to you, and
I am not going to tell her, and leave her,
and break her heart. Do you understand
? "

I understand that you think more of
that old woman than of any one in the
world," said Otho surlily, " whatever you
may profess ; but I suppose you must have
your way. And, Magdalen"  he dropped
his voice  " confess that you were worsted
to-night. You found your master."

If I did, he might have been more

generous. It was an odious thing that
you did, to flout me, and openly play the
gallant to a little chit who has always
looked up to me with reverence. I can
never have anything more to say to little
Ada, now; and I can tell you, the child
was almost my only amusement. I don't
know who will afford me any entertainment
now."

I will," said Otho, with generous
promptitude.

You can't. Here we are, and it is
snowing, actually," she added, as she kt
down the glass, and looked out. " Heavy
snow ! How on earth will you get home ?"

I'll walk, of course," said Otho, jumping
out, and holding out his hand to her.

Walk ! " repeated Magdalen, pausing
before she got out, to expostulate with
him  " walk over three miles in this
driving snow  and on such a road! Indeed,
you must not. If you wait, they will get
you a gig, or a dog-cart, or something ; it

will be lighter than the brougham, and you
could put it up at your place till tomorrow."


I'll walk, I tell you. Come out ; you'll
get your death of cold, sitting there," said
Otho, gruffly and impatiently. "What's
a few flakes of snow to me, now ? Haven't
I been in a fever all night ? I tell you,
I want to work it off, so let me alone."

She had got out of the carriage, and
they stood on the steps. She was going to
expostulate again, but Otho told the men
to drive to the stables, he was going to
walk home ; and they, nothing willing to
turn out again on such a night  a contingency
which they had already discussed
obeyed with alacrity. The two figures,
dark and shrouded, stood within the porch,

and Magdalen stretched out her hand
towards the bell.

Stop a minute ! " said Otho. " Hugh !
what a wind ! " as a screaming blast from
the north-west whistled past the vestibule.

Otho, you must not walk home "

Be quiet, I tell you ; let me alone !
If I've a fancy, I'll sleep in the vestibule,
or anywhere I choose. Now, Magdalen,"
he seized her hands in a grasp that hurt
them  " swear that you will not go back
from what you have said to-night."

I swear I will not, Otho."

"And that when the time comes  we
shall both know when it does  you'll
marry me, and follow me, as truly as I'll
go on loving you."

Yes, I swear I will."

And that whatever happens, you are
mine  you don't cut yourself adrift from
me as you did from Michael Langstroth.

There is no need for me to swear that
for I could not, if I would."

All right ! give me a kiss, and let me
get home."

Magdalen put her two hands on his
shoulders, and said 

I have sworn a good many things

to you ; I want you to swear nothing tome
; but remember this, whatever wrong
you do me, directly or indirectly, from this
time forward, you do to your wife, for you
are mine now, as much as I am yours.
Good night ! "

She kissed him on his mouth, and was
turning away. Otho suddenly put his
arm about her neck, laid his head for a
moment on her breast, and said in a rough,
broken voice 

You have been very good to me, and
very patient with me, Magdalen. You'll
get your reward, I hope."

Then he turned on his heel, rammed his
cap on to his head, and plunged into the
darkness and the snow, which drove blindingly
in his face.

He had chosen to walk  persisted in
walking, perhaps with some idea of cooling,
in the wintry blast, the fever of his
hot heart ; for it was hot, and it beat and
tossed with restless pain.

The biggest throw I ever made," he
muttered to himself, as he passed out at
the Balder Hall gate, and emerged in the
tempest of the open road. " Will she be
staunch, I wonder ? I believe she will.
We've been driven together, if ever two
lost souls were, and "

Here he was obliged to give his undivided
attention to keeping the right road.
Thorsgarth was but three miles away
from Balder Hall, even by the roundabout
way of the high road. It had been a little
after eleven when Otho had turned away
from Miss Strangforth's door; it was
nearly two when at last Gilbert let him in
at the side door of his own house ; and
he entered, pallid, gasping, and scarce
able to stand, covered all over with snow,
and shading his blinded eyes from the
light.

Good heavens, man ! where have you
been ; and what have you been doing ? I
was just thinking of rousing the house, and

VOL. II. 36

sending relays of men after you, with
lanterns."

I've been doing my courting," said
Otho, pulling off his overcoat, and shaking
himself; " and since winning the lady, I've
had to do battle with the storm. Have
you got a good fire in there, and something
to drink ? It's not weather for a dog to
be out in."

Which lady have you been honouring
with your proposals ? " inquired Gilbert
drily.

Which ? Why, there is only one, and
that's Magdalen."

Oh ! It is a pity you did not manage
to let other people understand that as
clearly as you seem to do yourself."

"Come, don't be crusty, Gilbert," said he
suddenly, and without his usual sullenness.
You know I have been wondering fora
long time if I should do this ; and now
that it's done, by Jove, you don't seem to
think it makes any difference to a fellow !

I thought you would shake hands, and
wish me joy, at any rate."

Gilbert was a little time silent before he
answered. Then he said 

I can do that, if you like, and do it
honestly. IVe no objection to shake
hands with you, and I would rather you
met with joy than sorrow ; but "  with a
sudden change of tone  " why did you
spoil everything by making that hideous
exhibition of yourself to-night ? Why
could you not tame Magdalen, if she wants
taming, without embroiling yourself with
half-a-dozen other people ? It is too
stupid ! "

It was not by reproaches like these that
Gilbert had got and maintained his power
over Otho, but something to-night seemed
to drive the words out of him, whether he
wished to utter them or not. Otho did
not seem inclined to quarrel.

What does it matter ? " he said tolerantly.
" Let me alone. It will all blow
over."

"It will not blow over!" said Gilbert
almost passionately. " Do you suppose
that Roger Camm will put up with such
treatment ? He was perfectly frantic, and
you will have to reckon with him yet "

I'm quite ready," said Otho, scowling
suddenly. " He had better mind what he
is about, in calling me to account, that's all."

Not only that, but you made yourself
ridiculous ; and, above all, Otho, you put a
public insult upon your sister by behaving
as you did in her presence, with a little
vulgar fool like that Dixon girl. It is "

"My sister chose to come poking her
nose into my house, and mixing herself
with my affairs," said Otho sullenly. " She
may take the consequences. Let her go
home again to her genteel friends, if she
objects to what goes on here."

Bah ! " said Gilbert, with indignation.
Have you no sense of decency ? "

You are cross, Gilbert ; and it's very
late. I'm going to bed, and I advise you

to do the same. The lecture tomorrow,
when you've had time to think things over.
Good night, old fellow."

He took a candle, nodded to Gilbert,
and left the room. His friend slowly followed
him, looking altogether more limp
and less self-assured than he had done
six hours earlier.

CHAPTER XIII.

RECRIMINATION.

Roger Camm, leading Ada away, went
out into the passage, and stood at the
door of the cloak-room, while she put
on her shawl and hat, and then came
out to him. Her face was still flushed,
and more sullen than downcast. She did
not look at him, as she said, " I am
ready."

He gave her his arm, and they went
out, to walk the few hundred yards between
the schoolroom and Ada's home.
The cold night air blew upon their heated
faces, for Roger, though he looked so
pale, was in a fever, and Ada's heart

was hot with anger and disappointment.
Nothing was said till they arrived at the
side door which led to the house part
of Mr. Dixon's premises. Then Ada
observed 

Well, I suppose after all this, you
won't want to come in."

Oh, Ada ! " exclaimed the young man
in a voice of reproach, " that is cruel. I
want to speak to you, of course. I would
not go away and leave you alone  the
idea ! "

Oh, come in, pray ! Now that yoij
have spoiled my whole pleasure, and made
me a laughing-stock; taking me away,
like a baby in disgrace," said Ada, in a
voice that trembled violently.

They went into the house. The
astonished servant came out of the
kitchen, on hearing the unexpected noise,
but retired when she saw who the intruders
were. Mr. and Mrs. Dixon were
both at the concert. Ada led the way

upstairs, to the family sitting-room, and
turned up the gas, and gave Roger the
prosaic order to poke the fire.

He did so, and then turned to her.
For a little time he stood with his back
against the mantelpiece, and his hands
clasped behind him. She drew out her
handkerchief and held it before her eyes,
to conceal the tears which rage and
temper prevented from flowing ; while
she tapped the floor with her foot. It
was a cruelly painful ordeal to him, and
he was revolving in his mind how to
speak to her. How, how was he to
reproach her ? For reproach her he
must. He had gone so suddenly into
the ante-room at the concert ; for once, he
had seen Ada and her actions clearly, and
without any flattering veil over them : 
had seen her openly coquetting with
another man, and that a man whose
character and station made it impossible
for such coquetting to be innocent. It

was her innocence and ignorance, he told
himself, with yearning love in his heart,
which had permitted her to be so misled.
All that was necessary was for him to tell
her what the real character was, that
Otho Askam bore, and she would see
what a mistake she had made. But
how to begin  what words were soft
enough, gentle enough ? While he was
thus inwardly debating, Ada suddenly
looked up.

Have you brought me here to play at
a quaker's meeting ? " she asked angrily.
11 I thought you said you had something
to say ; and I wish you'd be quick with it,
as I'm sure it's nothing agreeable."

Ada, is that my fault ? " he asked,
turning to her with a wistful look.

Of course it is your fault," was the
indignant reply. " Why must you fly into
a passion about nothing at all, and speak
to me as if I'd been doing something
worse than any one else ever did, and

insult me, and speak in such a way to a
gentleman like Mr. Askam  and Miss
Wynter sitting there ? Am I not to be
allowed to speak to a gentleman ? "

Ada ! " he exclaimed, all the gentle
phrases scattered to the winds at the
picture which her words conjured into his
mind, and speaking solemnly, and even
sternly,  " for heavens sake be silent, or
you will drive me to speak to you in a
way that I shall repent. Gentleman !
No gentleman would behave as that
blackguard behaved to-night. When I
went in and saw him leaning over your
chair, I wonder I did not rush at him
and knock him down, without a word.
Let me tell you that no girl's character
would benefit by its being known that
Otho Askam was on friendly terms with
her. He is a thorough-paced cad, without
honour, or honesty, or principles. Child,
child ! How could you let him lead you
on, in the face "

You're never jealous ! " cried Ada,
her anger turned in something like a
smile.

Jealous ! " echoed Roger, with unspeakable
contempt in his tone. " When
I have to be jealous of him, it will be
all up between you and me. I boil with
rage at the pollution you suffer from his
familiarity. Ada  you do love me, my
darling, don't you ? "

Why yes, of course," said Ada slowly.

Then you must promise me to have
no more to do with him. See to what
you have driven me already. I shall
have to have a reckoning with him tomorrow.
I shall tell him what I think of
him, and promise him a horsewhipping, if
ever he ventures upon such impertinence
again "

Roger ! " The presumption, the audacity
of his words, caused Ada to turn pale.

And of course," Roger went on calmly,
I shall have to shake the dust of this

place from my feet. I have no fear of
not being able to get another situation ;
but it may be some little time first ; it maybe
a long way from here when I do get
it ; it cannot be here, of course ; there is
no other place here. And that will
separate us. You did not know or foresee
all this ; you could not, but it is so, you
see. And I cannot speak quite calmly
about it."

Ada was silent. Roger thought she was
thunderstruck on being shown the consequences
of what had doubtless seemed
to her a few flattering attentions.

I don't see the good of making all
that fuss about it," she said at last.
There was no wrong in Mr. Askam's
saying a few words to me ; but people
will say there is, if you go on in that
way." (A feminine view of the case
which had not before occurred to Roger.)
"I have always been a friend of Miss
Wynter's "

Yes, indeed ; and precious little good
it has done you," was Roger's ill-advised
retort.

"And Miss Askam sat talking with me
for nearly an hour the other day. There's
nothing strange about it. I have always
felt at home with the gentry about here,
and there's proof positive that it isn't
only the gentlemen who notice me "

Notice you  notice you!" he said,
stung intensely by her words. " Who
wants you to be noticed ? You have no
need of any one's notice. No honest girl 
has "

Honest girl ! Well, I declare ! "

Your lines are not cast among such
people. They only amuse themselves
with you, whatever you may think. If
you keep them at a distance they respect
you. As for Miss Wynter, I have always
disliked her "

Yes, you have ; and without a scrap of
reason. You think she's worse than poison,

and say all sorts of things about her, 
false, I've heard you call her. And there
was she before you came in, talking to
Mr. Askam and trying with all her might
to make him behave himself "

Oh ! " said Roger, turning sharp upon
her, with an expression of bitter pain upon
his face. "If she did that, he must have
needed it, sorely. And you said to me
that there was no harm in what he was
doing. Ada, my girl, this is cruel ; it is,
indeed."

Oh dear ! " exclaimed Ada, mentally
anathematizing her maladroit admission.
She was just as bad as you, for making
too much of it. I only meant to show
that she is not the false woman you call
her."

I judge her by her actions. As for
Miss Askam, she is different. Dr. Rown-
tree knows her, and he says so ; and
Michael Langstroth "

Oh, I know he thinks so. And of

course he's always right ! " retorted Ada
excitedly. " Every one knows that. I
suppose if he had been talking to me, we
should have heard none of all this."

Not a word ; you are quite right," said
Roger constrainedly. " I should have
known there was some reason for what he
did. But that's just it. No one ever
hears of him making a fool of himself in
that way, and behaving like a cad at a
public entertainment. It isn't in him."

I know I'm awfully tired of hearing
Dr. Langstroth's praises for ever sung
And as for Miss Askam, of course he
says she is an angel, and an angel that's
pretty thick with him, by all accounts."

11 What do you mean ? Who says anything
against them ? " asked Roger, indignant
at her tone.

Goodness ! I never said it was against
them. I see no harm in it ; but then
I'm not so strait-laced as some people.
They've been seen riding together, not so

long ago, and walking about in the garden
when Mr. Askam was away."

Their meeting was a pure accident."

Oh, of course ! Such things are always
accidents," said Ada, with a laugh.

Do you mean that you doubt me,
Ada ? " he asked very seriously.

Doubt you ?  not at all. I suppose Dr.
Langstroth said it was an accident, and
of course we all know he has nothing todo
but speak, and you do what he tells
you, and believe what he says."

This shaft fell quite ineffectually.

It does not matter who circulated the
report," said Roger. " Every one knows
that Miss Askam is a young lady of the
very highest character."

She's perhaps got all the propriety for
herself and her brother as well "

It is very certain that her brother has
none. And that brings me back., Ada,
you will promise me not to have anything
further to do with him, will you not, dear ? "

"If he speaks to me, I suppose I'm to
shut my mouth and not say a word ? "

He shall not speak to you again in anyway
that you cannot answer."

Oh, what do I care for him ? I want
none of him, especially if there's to be all
this fuss made about it," said Ada ; but
she did not meet his eyes as she spoke.

That's my own dearest Ada ! " exclaimed
Roger, too much pleased with
what he considered her promise, to notice
anything else. " And by tomorrow night,
I hope to have done with him for ever.
I will speak to your father, and make it
right with him. And now let us forget it
all, and have some music by ourselves,
shall we ? "

But Ada was by no means to be so
easily pacified. She declined the music
entirely, and said that such a concert could
by no means make up for the one she had
lost. After some utterly abortive attempts
to keep up a cheerful conversation, all of

vol. 11. 37

which she cut short with snaps, or yawns,
Roger at last relieved her of his company,
and went on his way, with the dreary,
blank sense that he and she were thoroughly
divided in their opinion upon the
occurrences of the evening.

But she was so young, so innocent, he
said to himself. What could she possibly
know of the real character of a man like
Otho Askam, or of the sinister and compromising
nature of any attentions from
him ? Patience, patience ! he preached to
himself, and it would all come right.
When she was married to him, and he
could speak plainly to her, soul to soul,
there would be no more of these misunderstandings,
these clouds and disputes. She
would be innocent still, but not ignorant
any more.

And, perhaps, so far as he was himself
concerned, it was better for his soul's
health to be free from all connection with
a man like Askam.

Thus he reflected, as he took his homeward
way, and on arriving at the Red
Gables, found the rooms dark, and Michael
still absent.

About half-past ten he arrived, and
found Roger alone, in an easy-chair by the
fireside.

Halloa ! Back again ! " exclaimed
Michael.

Ay ! "

You took her away altogether, did
you ? "

"Yes."

Quite right, too. Brutes like him
want showing that they can't ride roughshod
over every one and everything."

Michael, do you think he is a little
cracked ? "

Not a particle, unless being born bad,
and a bully, is being cracked. It is a
somewhat debateable question, you know,
now. We are so very liberal and tolerant
in these days. It seems to be the theory

that if by chance you behave decently, you
ought at once to have a statue put up to
you ; whereas, if you conduct yourself like
a savage, or a blacken, or as if you had
been brought up amongst professional
thieves, and the lowest riff-raff, the thing
is, that you are not quite all there, poor
fellow !  that's all, and ought not to be
considered accountable for your actions.
It's not a view that I ever took, and I say
that Otho Askam is no more mad than
you are at this moment. He's vicious,
and he's a bully. And I suppose that
Miss Wynter had crossed him in someway,
and he wanted to punish her publicly.
That's about the tune of it."

Bullies are usually cowards," observed
Roger reflectively.

"And so is he. Wait till the time
comes when the shoe begins to pinch, 
when his sins come back to him, and
demand house-room with him, and bring
their children by the hand, and when he

has made such a hole in his estate that
even his guardian angel can't stave off the
remarks of creditors ; then you'll see where
his brag ends."

Nothing would give me greater pleasure
than to look on at such a moment,"
said Roger, speaking out of the pride and
the blindness of his heart. " To-morrow
he will have to whistle to the tune of my
saying good-bye to him, and leaving him
to his own resources. I'm not a 'gentleman
born,' like he is "

Now come, Roger. You'll be saying
next that all ' gentlemen born ' are like
Otho Askam, and all ' working men,' as you
are pleased to call yourself, are just like
you  on the same level, and with the same
feelings. Keep within bounds."

Not a gentleman by birth, like he is,"
Roger went on softly ; " but I am a human
being, with susceptibilities, and with coarse
desires and impulses. The former have
been wounded by his behaviour to my

betrothed, which I consider to have been
wanting in respect. The latter inspire me
to tell him he is a cad, threaten him with
a horsewhipping, and cry quits with him.
Don't say anything against it, because I
am going to do it, and it's no use your
worrying about it."

I  worry. Nay, you may choke him
by knocking his own impudence down his
throat, if you like ; I have nothing against
it. I am sorry for his sister, I must say.
Did you see her to-night ?"

Yes," said Roger tranquilly. " So
did you. She looked superb."

And miserable, poor thing ! Who
would guess them to be brother and
sister ? "

Who, indeed ? "

I cannot imagine that she can be very
happy in that house."

I can't imagine that any decent person
would."

Then Roger lighted a pipe, and smoked

it, before going to bed. Michael pulled
out a book, and said he had some reading
to do. How soon the one slept, how
much the other read  these things have
not been ascertained.

CHAPTER XIV.

AT THE MILLS.

When Michael came down on the following
morning, he found Roger gazing out
of the window, at the snowy prospect, and
drumming his fingers on the pane.

"A jolly day for you to turn out,
Michael. Have you to go far afield ? "

Not very ; but I have a good deal todo.
Balder Hall is the furthest place
I have to go to. I must see Miss Strange


Ah, well, it is not a very good road."

He turned to the breakfast table, and
they had both made some progress with
the meal, when Michael observed 

Roger, you said you were going to
have it out with Otho Askam to-day."

So I am."

Do you mean to give it him hot ? "

I mean to tell him that I have done
with him, and to promise him a horsewhipping
if he ever looks at my young
woman again," said Roger roughly.

Do you know, I don't think it is the
best thing you could do."

Better make him a speech, thanking
him for his politeness and condescension,
perhaps," said Roger bitingly.

Oh, nonsense ! You know that is not
what I mean."

The thought in Michael's mind, of which
he could not, of course, speak to Roger,
was, that the girl was not worth making
a great fuss about. He found it difficult
to speak very seriously on the matter,
looking at it from his point of view,
and felt a sorrowful surprise at Roger's
denseness.

What I mean is this," he went on.
Otho Askam is not exactly like other
men ; he's a greater blackguard than most.
You might as well harangue this table as
expect to make him ashamed of himself,
or get him to see that he behaved vilely
last night. That's the sort of creature
that he is. And if you quit him at a
moment's notice, people will be quite ready
to say that there was more in it than met
the eye. I think that for her sake, you
should be careful."

Roger moved uneasily in his chair, and
a deep flush of anger was on his face.

Curse him ! " he exclaimed at length,
with emphasis. "It would be a good
deed to choke him ! "

Oh yes ! But we have to put up with
human vermin where we should scotch
them if they were snakes." Michael spoke
more lightly, for he saw that his words
had taken the effect he wished them to
have, without his having been forced to

*say what he thought ; that though Otho
had doubtless behaved abominably, yet
that Ada Dixon, by conducting herself
like a fool, and a vulgar one, had put no
impediment in the way of his so behaving.

You know, he can sue you for breach
of contract if you inconvenience him, and
that would be confoundedly expensive,
and very disagreeable  for you could
hardly mention in a court of justice the
reason why you left him at a moment's
notice."

But I could pay the fine, without
making any row."

And make every one think that he
could say more about you than he had
done, if he chose to. No ; you have to
deal with men as they are, you know, and
not as they should be ; and you cannot
treat a poisonous thing in the same way
you might one that has no sting. I should
advise you quietly to give him three
months' notice ; don't let him see that you

think so much of him as would be implied
by your leaving him on the spot. Say you
want a situation in a large town ; you
often have wished it, you know, and "

And Ada ! " said Roger, in a constrained
voice. " While I am palavering
to save appearances, I must pass over the
insult to her, without a word. As if I
should trouble my head about him, except
on her account ! "

Roger, I don't think you can accuse
me of being wanting in a sense of honour ;
and if you will believe me,, you will honour
her, and consider her more truly by not
mentioning her name in Askam's presence,
You proved last night that you knew how
to take care of her; why condescend to
name her to him again ? "

There was a pause, during which Roger
looked dark and angry, but at last said
abruptly 

Yes, yes ; you are perfectly right. But
oh, Lord ! " he added, almost grinding his

teeth, " it can't be a good law that protects
a cad like that from a horsewhipping.
And I would like to be the man to give
it him."

Of course, the fighting animal in you
would," said Michael, who had hardly been
prepared for such intense bitterness on
Roger's part. Could he have seen clearly
into his friend's mind, he might have
found that the thing which added bitterness
to the gall was a first glimmering
consciousness that the fault had not been
wholly on the side of him whom he so
freely apostrophized as " cad " and " blackguard."


There's a higher thing though, thana
fighting animal," pursued Michael; "and
that is a gentleman, who does not walk in
the dirt, unless circumstances oblige him
to."

Roger made no answer to this oracular
utterance, and they presently separated
and went their several ways.

Roger, in the office, pondered upon
Michael's words, and knew they were
right. He swallowed down his consuming
anger, and determined to be discreet in
what he said and did. If Otho came
down to the mills that morning, well and
good. If not, Roger would, he thought,
either write to him with his decision, or
go and call upon him that evening. With
an effort, he mastered the vexation that
had been gnawing at his heart, and turned
to his work.

The morning, which despite the snow,
had broken bright, clear, and sharp,
clouded over, till everything looked very
sad and gray;  the street where the tramping
work people had pounded the snow
into a dirty slush ; the mill-yard itself ;
the river flowing sullenly past, deep and
flooded.

None of them all could be grayer than
the spirits of Roger Camm. He began to
wonder how it was that he had so little

luck, and tried hard to see his way, even
for a yard before him, but not with much
success. By degrees, to his trenchant
mood succeeded one of despondency and
aversion to everything. He began to
hope then that Otho would not comedown
; so far from desiring to give him a
horsewhipping, he now felt as if it would
cost him a disagreeable effort even to look
upon his face ; he would prefer to write to
him, and get the whole thing disposed of
without words or glances.

This was not to be. About half-past
eleven he saw two horsemen enter the
yard  Otho Askam and his guest, Gilbert
Langstroth. Otho called a man to hold
their horses, and they dismounted and
entered the office ; but not before some
conversation had passed between them
outside. Roger saw how Gilbert pointed
here and there with his whip, and stood
reflectively looking about him. Then,
after Otho had shrugged his shoulders

and raised his eyebrows, they came slowly
towards the office. Roger felt dreary,
cross, and cynical. The effort had to be
made, and he was in no mood for making
it. The deadly, nauseous flatness which
is the reaction and the avenger of strong
excitement, had taken possession of him.
He scarcely looked up as they entered ;
barely returned Gilbert's courteous " good
morning," but he noticed that Otho came
in with more swagger than usual, and that
in his insolence he did not condescend to
utter a greeting of any kind.

What business ? " he asked.

There are the letters," replied Camm,
as he pushed them across to him.

Otho took them and stood near the fire.
Gilbert turned to Roger.

I have been talking to Mr. Askam,"
he said; "and I find that he has not
insured that new machinery that came the
other day. I think it ought to be done
as soon as possible."

Otho looked up.

What's that ? Oh, insurance ! You
are at it again."

I should imagine that Camm would
agree with me," said Gilbert.

Why, of course," replied Roger. " It
is a elinor that ought to be done at once,
and I have mentioned it several times."

Do you hear, Otho ? Now do be
reasonable, and get Camm to write about
it at once, and have it settled now."

Not I ! " said Otho, laying down the
letters. " We've spent far too much,
money already in insurance. Insurance
is all bosh. The mills are insured ; and
where's the use of a thing, or the amusement,
if you go and arrange against all
accidents beforehand ? "

At this novel view of the merits and
uses of insurance, Gilbert gave a short
laugh ; but having some personal interest
in the matter, presently resumed an air
of gravity, and said 

VOL. II. 38

Oh, you must not gamble with everything
; and even if you do, it's wiser to
calculate your chances a bit, unless you
are clean mad."

What answers have you sent, Camm ? "
inquired Otho.

Those," replied Roger, pointing to
some envelopes that lay on the desk.

This extreme brevity, which for the life
of him Roger could not have altered,
seemed to have an irritating effect upon
Otho. He glanced at Roger, and almost
showed his teeth along with the scowl he
gave. But he picked up the letters and
read them. As for Roger, the mere
presence of the other made him feel that
his own power of self-restraint was not so
great as he had, in a moment of despondency,
imagined it to be. His blood was
running with wild speed through every
vein ; his hands did not tremble, but he
felt breathless, excited, furious ; and as he
happened to catch a glimpse of Otho's face,

dark, nearly hairless, and coarse in its very
handsomeness, with its scowling brow and
sinister smile, and recollected how, last
night, he had seen that face bending with
a more insolent expression than it wore
even to-day, over the fair countenance of
his Ada, and how the latter had been
seen raised towards that of this man, with
every sign of pleased and nattered self-complacency,
he felt a longing to have
his hands at Askam's throat. Truly, he
felt, he and these other two were no better
suited to one another now than they had
been fourteen years ago, when they had
played together in the old garden at
Thorsgarth.

Gilbert, who was leaning against a
desk, with his eyes half-closed, and looking
tired and bored, was, as usual, taking it
all in. He had been a witness of the
scene last night, and Roger's pale face
and compressed lips now, and the glitter
in his eyes as he looked towards his
employer, were not lost upon him.

Come, Otho, haven't you nearly done ?
It is time we were moving," he said.

Yes, I'm just ready," replied Otho,
laying down the letters. "They' re' all right,
I think." He never interfered with anything
that Roger did ; his reading the
letters was a form. to be gone through, for
he knew absolutely nothing of business
of this kind, though he could have rattled
off, correctly and nimbly, the pedigrees of
two score celebrated racers.

"Well," said Gilbert, once again, " won't
you think about the insurance ? "

No," retorted Otho impatiently.
I've no money to spare for insurance."

Turning economical with advancing
years," observed Gilbert, with polite sarcasm.
" Let me tell you that fire and water
and bad luck never spare a man because
he had not money to insure himself
against them, and "

How you preach ! " almost snarled
Otho. " Tell you I don't mean to insure.
Come away."

I should like to speak to you before
you go," observed Roger composedly.

Otho, hearing this, turned sharp upon
him, grasping his whip in his hand, and
the insolence in his eyes growing bolder.
Gilbert looked quietly, but with equal
interest.

What is it ? " asked Otho, his hand on
the door-handle.

Merely that I am thinking of leaving
Bradstane. To-day is the twenty-fourth ;
it was the twenty-fourth when I came to
you. I wish to give three months' notice
to you, as I shall leave you at the end of
that time."

"What the devil is the meaning of all
this ? " demanded Otho, loosing the door-handle,
but holding the whip faster, and
turning upon Roger with a black look of
anger. Roger, eyeing him fixedly, thought
within himself 

How did I ever bear with him for this
length of time, the brute ! "

But he answered civilly and tranquilly 

That is scarcely the way in which to
speak to me. I say that I wish to leave
your employment this day three months.
Isn't that simple enough ? "

1T1 be hanged if it is ! " said Otho
savagely. " It's usual to give a reason
when you leave a place,  and I want to
know yours."

I would advise you not to ask for it,"
was Roger's answer, his face growing
paler, his lips tighter, his eyes more
dangerous, as his anger grew hotter within
him.

What ! may a man not ask his servant's
reasons for leaving, him ? " began Otho.
It's the first time I ever "

Don't be a fool, Otho ! " here observed
Gilbert. " Roger Camm has as good a
right to give you three months' notice as
anybody else ; and he's in the right of it,
when he says you had better not ask his
reasons Of course you'll want a written

notice, and of course you'll get one. So
come away."

I say," observed Otho, suddenly changing
his angry demeanour into one of
facetiousness, and with an impudent smile,
perhaps you disapprove of my attentions
to a certain young lady, last night ; but I
can tell you "

If you mention her name, I'll give you
the hiding you deserve ! " thundered Roger,
springing up, and walking very close upto
Otho, whose laugh now changed to a
look of furious anger.

You are threatening me ! " he demanded,
in a voice of suppressed rage.

I shall not confine myself to threats
very long," was the breathless reply.

Otho's eyes looked dangerous still, but
he seemed also amused, in a curious
manner.

Then it is about the little girl that you
have cut up rough. Lord bless you, she
isn't worth thinking about twice ! " he said,

bursting into a loud laugh. " Which was
the worst, eh ?  she or I ? "

You blackguard ! " said Camm, between
his clenched teeth. " I'll "

His hand was raised, and there was fury
in his eyes. The words seemed surging
in his brain, and burnt upon his heart.
The tone of them lashed him to perfect

X

madness. If he had got hold of Otho's
collar the results might have been unpleasant,
but he felt Gilbert's hand on his
arm, and Gilbert's voice whispered in his
ear 

Don't you see he is just leading you
on ? You are not a prize-fighter, if he is.
Let him go ! "

Roger's hand dropped. Otho was
watching him with a look of hatred in
his face which was far stronger than the
sneer which his lips tried to form. He
was insolent, and he carried the matter
off with a laugh, but it had roused his
worst hatred and his blackest animosity.

I said I would go in three months,"
said Roger constrainedly, clenching his
hands down, to keep himself under control ;
but you have made that impossible.
You can look out for yourself from this
moment. I will not darken your doors
again, if I can help it."

With which, picking up his hat, he
pushed Otho unceremoniously to one side,
and walked out, leaving the others to make
the best of the situation.

His heart was sick as he walked away.
Such a scene his very soul abhorred. All
the tingling desire to chastise Otho seemed
to evaporate as he left his presence. He
felt again nothing but loathing, aversion,
and a wish to keep as clear of him as
possible. But reptiles can sting, and Otho
had stung. As Roger passed through the
street, and saw the windows of Ada's home,
his impulse was to call there and see her ;
he hesitated, paused, walked on.

She's not worth thinking twice about.
Which was the worst, eh ?  she or I ? "

His heart, wrung with shame and
anguish, called upon her name. No. He
must not go in now. He must wait until
hours had passed, and reflection had come
to his aid.

He went on to the Red Gables, and
found Michael just in from his first round.
To him Roger related what had happened,
and what he had done.

I could not help it," he said. " I began
civilly enough, and prudently enough ; but
when that cur gives tongue I lose my head.
He has never happened to do it before,
about anything in which I had any concern ;
but as soon as he began, it was all up with
me. I left him and your excellent brother
to settle it as they best could ; I walked
off."

Well, I cannot blame you," said
Michael when he had heard him out. " I

should have done the same, or more. But
it is an odious business."

"It is a vile business," replied Roger
gloomily ; " and until after Christmas, I
shall be at a loose end, for it is useless
trying to see after anything before then."

CHAPTER I.

A FALSE STEP IN GOOD FAITH.

The day after that unfortunate fracas at
the mills was Christmas Day. It will
easily be understood that to Roger it did
not this year form the most cheerful occasion
imaginable. He had seen Ada pn
the evening of the twenty-fourth, and some
kind of a reconciliation had then been
patched up between them, but one which
set Roger thinking, and made him feel that
many differences of opinion might be less
disastrous than such a making up of a
quarrel. It had not been spontaneous ; it
had been largely due to the intervention

of Mr. Dixon, who was very indignant with
his daughter for what he called "making
such an exhibition of herself." He condemned
Otho Askam in no measured terms,
but his blame of Ada and her "want of
sense" was almost as strong. He wanted
to know where she meant to draw the line
in her folly. He added that she was doing
her character no good by such " carrying
on," and uttered a dark hint as to the implacable
nature of his wrath should she ever
in the future disgrace, or as he expressed
it, '' lower herself" in any way whatsoever.
During the paternal admonitions Mrs.
Dixon maintained an ominous silence. As
has been before said, she did not favour
Roger's pretensions, and had always looked
to her daughter to marry well ;  not what
Mr. Dixon considered to be well, but what
she, his consort, understood by the term.
On returning from the concert, and finding
that Ada had gone to her room, her mother
had repaired thither, and had extracted

from the girl an account of every word
uttered throughout the evening, by herself,
Otho, Miss Wynter, and Roger. She had
not said much, save some strong expressions
condemnatory of Roger's behaviour,
which she characterized as " tyrannical,"
'impudent," 'masterful," and "odious,"
and expressed indignation that her daughter
should be forced to do the bidding of such
a man. But at the recital of Otho's attentions
there was an expression in her face
which Ada did not interpret as one of
displeasure.

By Mr. Dixon's orders the young
woman had received her betrothed with
outward friendliness, though she declined
with quiet, persistent obstinacy, to say she
was sorry for what had happened. Reconciliations
made to order are apt to carry
about them a very strong flavour of their
artificial nature and origin, and this particular
reconciliation bore the stamp of
unreality very plainly to be read.

On going in on Christmas Eve, Roger
was, for once, not at all sorry to find that
the Dixon had friends with them. Mr.
Dixon received him heartily, Ada demurely,
Mrs. Dixon coldly, scarcely speaking
to him at all. There was a miserable
constraint and unreality about everything.
Roger felt it a relief to himself, and had a
bitter conviction that it was also one to
Ada, when he had to tell her that he had
promised Mr. Johnson to take all the
organist's duty on the following day, in
order that that official might take a holiday
and visit some friends. His time
would, therefore, be so much taken up that
he would not be able to call and see her
before service. She heard his excuse with
indifference, and Roger went to bed that
night, and arose also on the following
morning, with a heavy problem agitating
his mind. How was he to treat her ?
What was he to do with this wilful creature
whom he loved so much, and who had

succeeded In making their mutual relations
so miserable and so embarrassed ? For
it was he who had been sinned against,
as he very well knew, and though in his
tenderness he was ready to condone that,
and would have eagerly made an effort
after any reconciliation that should have
reality in it, yet the sense of duty and of
the fitness of things stepped in, and told
him that to let a condition of things be
initiated in which the woman was to be
humoured even when wrong, and the man
was to beg forgiveness for all misunderstandings,
whether caused by himself or not,
was simple madness. Yet how he was to
institute anything more reasonable, he did
not see, unless Ada were brought to see
that she had behaved badly, of which truth
not the most glimmering consciousness
seemed to have been afforded her.

With this trouble in his mind he went
to church on Christmas morning, and tried,
almost unconsciously, to find a solution to

his difficulties in the language spoken to
him by his music. To a certain extent he
found what he wanted ; he received soothing,
and that alone was a help to counsel.
It was not the first time that music had
come to him with healing on her wings ;
most likely it would not be the last.

Seated up in the organ-loft, and looking
into the mirror in front of him, he couki
see, not only the vicar and his curate, buta
good many of the congregation too,  all
diminished, reversed in position, moving
up and down silently, rising and sitting
down again like automata or dream-creatures.
His sight was keen and long. He
could identify a good many of those who
came in, and amongst them he saw Ada
and her father and mother. Ada, he perceived,
was not so prostrate under the
shock of their quarrel as to have neglected
the claims of Christmas Day to be considered
a fete day in matters of toilette.
She was dressed gaily, and he saw a pretty

face, looking prettier still in the framework
of a smart and becoming new bonnet. It
was a fresh, sweet face, seen thus in repose,
and at a distance, and his heart yearned
towards its owner, and he tried to put out
of his mind the ugly recollection of the
same face turned upwards towards Otho
Askam, with a smile, and afterwards looking
at him, cross, distorted, pouting.

Whether the music inspired him, or the
sight of Ada, he knew not, but there
flashed suddenly into his mind the recollection
that he must most likely soon lose
sight of her, for a considerable time, at
any rate, and with this recollection tl\e
conviction that that was the best th'mQ-
that could possibly happen to them both.
Separation for a season would, he argued,
teach them both to look upon things with
less prejudiced eyes. She would miss him,
and want him, and he would learn to be
less indignant at what had happened between
them.

As he came to this conclusion, which he
hugged as a conviction, because it presented
to him a way out of his difficulty
with regard to the most judicious course
to take with Ada, he perceived Gilbert
Langstroth walking up the aisle behind
Eleanor Askam, and they went together
to the great square pew belonging to
Thorsgarth. Roger began to wonder
if Michael was right in thinking there
might be something between them. Then
he saw the choir and parsons coming in,
and he wound up his voluntary, and the
service began. When it was over, he
played the congregation out to the music
of a quick movement from a sonata of
Beethoven  a passage full of storm and
stress ; of pain, struggle, and striving.
And as the wild and noble music pealed
out, some of his pain and unrest passed
away with it.

When he had left the church, and got
into the churchyard, it was almost empty.

One or two groups still lingered in conversation.
Ada and her parents were not
amongst them, but Roger was surprised
to see Gilbert and Miss Askam still there.
She looked very pale, he noticed, and
grave, but also very beautiful, in her dark
brown velvet and furs. He raised his hat,
and was passing on, but Gilbert stepped
forward, and to Roger's bewildered amazement,
accosted him.

I have been waiting for you," said he.
I want a word with you, if you can spare
a moment ; and Miss Askam desires me
to present you to her ; " and he turned
from one to the other. 

Again Roger's hat came off, and he
could not find it in his heart to look with
anything but gentleness upon this sad
young face, in which he, like Michael, had
begun to perceive a nobility and firmness
of expression beneath the mere beauty of
outline, which expression attracted him
whether he would or no. She only said

a very few words to him, quietly and
simply.

I wished to make your acquaintance.
I have heard much about you from Dr.
Rowntree, and from my friend, Mrs. Johnson."


To which Roger gravely replied that
he was highly honoured, and had heard
also of Miss Askam from the same friends.
He perfectly appreciated the spirit which
dictated this advance from her.

'' She would repair the wrong, if she
could. Poor thing ! She might as well
try to sweep back the ocean with a besom."
Then Gilbert said to him, " I had no
opportunity of speaking to you the other
morning, but I want to do so particularly.
I have business to discuss with you. Will
you meet me tomorrow morning in the
reading-room in the town  say at twelve,
or earlier if you like ? "

Certainly. Twelve will suit me perfectly.
It will no doubt be better that we
should have a little talk."

Thank you. I shall be punctual," said
Gilbert, with the air of a man who Is much
obliged.

They parted, and Roger took his way
to Mr. Dixon's, where he had been bidden
some time ago, to dine and spend the day ;
not because he felt any sudden desire for
their society, or they for his, but because
it was Christmas, and it is the proper
thing to go and make merry with your
friends and relations at that season. He
had to go out once more to play at the
evening service, except for which interval
he spent most of his time in the company
of his betrothed and her parents, with what
results may be imagined. Ada was no
more gracious, no more penitent to-day,
than she had been yesterday. Roger's
conviction that a temporary separation
would be good for the spiritual welfare of
both became stronger. He imparted his
idea to Mr. Dixon, in a private conversation
with him, stating his reasons, and

VOL. III. 40

Mr. Dixon entirely agreed with him.
They both brought heavy broadsides of
common sense to bear upon the question,
and neither of them could do more ;
neither of them could have understood, if
some scatter-brained person had stepped
forward, and assured them that to settle a
question of that kind it was most desirable
that to common sense should be joined a
little of the much rarer and more precious
quality of imagination. They saw facts,
and they grappled with them in the very
best way in which they knew how ; and
they were at one in the opinion that Ada,
if left to herself a little, might come to a
better mind.

On the following day, at noon, punctual
to his appointment, Roger repaired to the
reading-room in the town. There was no
one there ; it was holiday time, and people
were otherwise amusing themselves. Ashe
waited for Gilbert he could not but
reflect how it was they came to meet thus.

"He knows I wouldn't set any foot
inside Thorsgarth, and he knows, too, that
he need never again darken the door of
his brother ; so we have to sneak into a
public room, where there is neutral ground.
It is an odious state of things, and I shall
be glad to be out of it."

He had not long to wait. Gilbert
arrived directly afterwards, and looked
pleased to see him.

'' I am much obliged to you for coming,"
began Gilbert. " It gives me hopes that
I shall be successful in my errand."

I thought you would want to know
how the books stand, and so on, .for
the benefit of my successor, when he
arrives."

'' Of course that will be necessary, but it
is not what I came about to-day. I won't
waste words in telling you how annoyed,
and more than annoyed I have been  I
may say mortified and disgusted, at what
has just taken place. I know the value of

your services, and that this is no fitting
recompense for them."

I don't know about the value of my
services, but I feel as if I had been rubbed
the wrong way, and that by no means
gently," said Roger.

Of course. And you will naturally be
unwilling to remain without a situation
longer than is necessary."

Naturally. I have done nothing about
it yet, because nobody wants to hear about
such things at Christmas-time ; but I
thought of advertising, or perhaps writing
to my former employers directly."

'' Yes, of course you could do that. But
I have it on my conscience that it was to
oblige me and to do me a service that you
left those former employers, and it must
be my business not to let you suffer for
that."

You are very kind," said Roger, perfectly
appreciating the unusual nature of
this long memory. " Very kind, you are ;

but I don't see how any one could hold
you responsible for what has happened, or
consider it your fault if a man whom I
have had to do with is such a blackguard,
and shows his blackguardism in such an
offensive manner that I have to leave him.
I've had my wages for more than six years,

and ''

You have done a great deal more than
that. You have stuck to the affair from
the beginning, and worked it through good
and bad, till from a doubtful venture you
have made it into a profitable business.
Any common foreman might have stayed
in his place and taken his wages. You
have been something different. But there
is no need to beat about the bush. I have
a proposal to make to you. I have had a
fair measure of success in the business in
which I am engaged. I think of finally
settling accounts with Mr. Askam, who
has never cared for business of that kind.
I shall pay him the remainder of the

capital and interest still owing to him, and
continue to work the mills on my own
account ; and I thought that under those
circumstances you might consent to remain,
since you would have the entire management
of the concern, and of course a share
in the profits, and would have absolutely
nothing further to do with Otho Askam.
What do you say to it ? "

The proposition took Roger by surprise,
and embarrassed him at the same time, for
it made his decision concerning the separation
of Ada and himself seem less than
before the only reasonable one to come
to. But he was not a man who came to
such decisions in a moment of carelessness
or impatience, and, having once arrived
at them he was hard to move. At first
there was a strong feeling of temptation,
the sensation that Gilbert's proposal put
an end to all difficulties, and made his
way clear before him. This, which was
the natural feeling, he immediately began

to distrust, chiefly because of his previous
resolution to leave Bradstane, and after
a few moments of rapid thought decided
that to make things clear and right between
him and Ada; he would make any
sacrifice ; and if this was the sacrifice
required  the giving up of this opening 
why, the more promptly and rapidly it
was accomplished the better.

*' This is what I never expected," heat
last said slowly, '' and it is very
tempting."

'' That means, that it does not tempt
you, but the reverse ; is it not so ? "

*' No ; it does tempt me very much.
But there are private reasons  reasons
which I can't quite explain to you, which
I am afraid will prevent it."

If you say that, I suppose I must not
press you. But I am very sorry, if you
think you cannot do as I wish. There
are several reasons why I wished it very
much, apart from the one that you are

far better suited to the post than any one
else I could possibly find. One is, that
if you had accepted, there would have
been no further settlements required, since
I know you so well ;  no question of
references, or recommendations from other
persons."

'' Yes, I understand that."

'' But, if you do not come to me, but
take another situation, you will have to
refer to your former employer, who, in
name, at any rate, has been Mr. Askam."

*well, and what can Mr. Askam say
of me that is not creditable ? "

'' Nothing  with truth. But you are
aware that he is unscrupulous and extremely
vindictive."

But there is such a thing as an action
for defamation of character, if people tell
lies about you. I have not the slightest
fear of any such thing. He may dislike
me, but he is not quite mad, and he simply
dare not do it."

I fear you do not know him so well
as I do. ' Daring ' has simply nothing todo
with it. He is not a man who dares or
dares not. He is a creature who yields to
every impulse of anger or passion, as
blindly and unquestioning, almost, as
when he was a child. He has got an
intense hatred for you now, because you
have thwarted and spoken plainly to him,
and he is now capable of committing any
folly in order to punish you. What I
wished to say is this, that If you will allow
me, I will do all in my power to see you
placed as soon as possible In a situation at
least as good as the one which, from ho
fault of yours, you are forced to leave.
And if I am the first to hear of such an
opening, I will at once communicate with
you ; If you are the first, all I ask of you
is, that you will write to me, and not
to Mr. Askam, for references. Then I
shall be able to see that justice Is done,
and that no scandal takes place."

Roger yielded to the honest impulse
which arose in him, to lay aside all
suspicion, and thank Gilbert heartily and
unaffectedly.

I don't pretend it is not a matter of
importance to me," he said, '' for it is ; and
I am thankful to be helped forward a bit.
I feel very grateful to you."

'' You won't take a few days, then, to
consider my proposal about the works
here ? " said Gilbert, looking almost wistfully
at him.

Roger shook his head slowly.

I think it is better not," said he. '' I
have considered my whole situation carefully
since Friday night, and I am perfectly
certain that I am best out of Brad-stane
for a time, both for my own sake,
and for that of those most bound up with
me. And when I settle down, it would be
as well that it should not be here, but
somewhere else."

'* Very well. I shall not attempt to

alter your decision now. We must see
about another situation as speedily as
possible."

There was a little pause, during which
Roger thought some rather puzzled
thoughts. He could not understand
Gilbert  that was very natural  and he
owned that the character of the other
man was a problem to which he had
not the key. He felt the charm of
manner which years of growth and cultivation
had developed In Gilbert, and
which Is a thing not to be described in
so many words. He understood also
that Gilbert was acting the part now of
a gentleman, an honourable man, and a
friend. He gathered that Gilbert disliked
and abhorred the conduct of Otho
Askam, and his character. That was a
group of characteristics which went harmoniously
together. What he could not
understand, in his simplicity and straightforwardness,
was that this same man

should Still be the friend, adviser, visitor,
companion of Askam, whose whole conduct
was so indecent and brutal ; and that
in past days he should have descended
to the very base Intrigue which he had
undoubtedly conducted, with regard to
the disposal of his father's property.
That intrigue, when discovered, had
alienated his brother from him for ever ;
and, reflected Roger, suddenly, whose
money was it with which Gilbert proposed
to carry on the working of the
Townend Mills ? There had never
been a word said about the two thousand
pounds which Michael had rejected, but
which Gilbert had probably manipulated
all these years. This wonder started up
suddenly in his mind, and with all his
disposition to think well of the man who
was so readily and so ungrudgingly
stepping to his aid, Roger could not
stifle those other voices, which spoke of
another phase in the said man's character.

His thoughts on the subject, though
this was the drift of them, were not thus
orderly and formulated. They ran vaguely
and rambling through his mind, in and
out of one another, uncertain and shapeless.


Suddenly Gilbert observed 

'' I was present at the concert in the
schoolroom the other night, and I saw
what happened there."

Ay ; along with the rest of the world,"
said Roger, writhing under the recollection
of it.

'' Yes ; and you must excuse me for
mentioning it. I feel it a duty, I may
say. There Is no harm in your leaving
Bradstane under the present circumstances
; but there might have been, but
for something that has taken place since
the concert. But for this, I should have
told you plainly, as a friend, that you
would do foolishly to go away, and leave
your france exposed to the possibility of

receiving further attentions from Otho
Askam. It would have been by no
means an impossible contingency. Now,
I am glad to say, there is no danger
of it."

'' Indeed ; and pray to what fortunate
circumstance am I indebted for such immunity
? "

'just to this, that after the concert he
saw Miss Wynter home, proposed to
her, and was accepted. He had accomplished
his purpose of frightening and
subduing her, though it seems to me
that in order to clinch his victory he had
to go further than he intended."

'' She has got him at last, then," said
Roger with contempt. '' And now I
think of it, that will be an advantage
to me, for she can never have anything
more to say to my little girl, and there
will be an end to an intimacy which I
have always detested."

Yes, you are right to be glad of that.

Hers is not a friendship I should desire
for any woman in whom I was interested."

** The wicked always gain their ends,'
said Roger unguardedly. " I did hope
she would never succeed in catching him,
so far as I hoped anything about it."

*' She is not so fortunate, even from
her point of view, as you suppose," said
Gilbert tranquilly. '' She has certainly
got what she aimed at, but sadly deteriorated
from what it was when she first
began to scheme for it ; and with it she
has got a lot of other things thrown in,
which she could well have dispensed
with. If she were any one else I shpujd
feel sorry for her."

'' You say that what she schemed for
is deteriorated ; now, excuse my saying
it, but how is it that you too cling to
that man ? That is a thing which I have
been wondering ever since you came here
this year."

Gilbert's face changed a little.

*' I suppose it must be unaccountable
to many another, as well as to you," he
said. " I can only say that it is because
he was true to me, in his way, long ago,
when I had other hopes and other ambitions
than I have now. He was not
afraid to declare that he was my friend,
and that whoever spoke against me, insulted
him. It would conduce greatly to
my comfort and peace of mind, if I could
forget that ; but I cannot. So my relations
to him are defined, not by my
present opinion of him, but by his conduct
towards me in former days. Other
things happened at that time ; I know it
is useless to speak to you of it, but he
stood my friend when no one else would
have done. Otho Askam is my Old Man
of the Sea. We all have one of some
kind, and it seems to me that the best
thing to do with them is to carry them
quietly as long as one's strength holds
out."

You say it is useless to speak to me
of that past time. But, since we have
got so far below the surface in our talk,
there is one thing I would like to tell
you, without any prejudice to my friendship
with Michael. You sent a note to
him one day."

'' Yes."

"He gave it to me to read at the time."

'' Yes ? "

I urged him to take a day to consider
the matter, and I have always felt that
you were wronged by his refusing to do
so. But his own wrongs at that time
were so incomparably greater than yours,
and his heart was so broken, that I have
always condoned the fault, though I was
sorry for it. Now you know all."

I am glad you have told me. His
heart was so broken, you say," said Gilbert,
speaking with an evident effort. " I
did not dare to think of anything connected
with him, then. He  is he  do

VOL. III. 41

you think it would be a breach of confidence
to let me know something of his
circumstances ? "

** I am afraid he would think so. He
does not even know I am meeting you."

'' Ah ! Say nothing then. But  his
engagement with Miss Wynter. Surely
he cannot regret now that it was broken
off?"

*' I don't suppose he does. That did
not make the blow at the time less hard."

No, no ! I should have fancied somehow
that he would have married some one
else. But he has not."

'' No, he has not."

Do you think he has ever cared to ? "

He never had, up to a little while
ago."

And now you think he does } "

** No, I don't. I think he has been so
well-disciplined by what he has gone
through that it would take a great deal
to make him really want to marry anyone.

He can't help admiring beautiful
things, but he won't do anything so disastrous
as to fall in love with the lady I
am thinking of. And besides, I know
nothing about his feelings, really. He
does not wear his heart upon his sleeve 
now."

'* No. Of course I look upon all this
as said in confidence ; and I think that
for the present we have settled all we
had to do."

Yes, quite, I think. And I assure
you I am much obliged to you."

'' Not at all. I am glad to have had
the talk. You have my London address,
I think."

*' Yes. How long do you remain
here ? "

'' Only a few days more."

They exchanged good mornings, and
separated. Roger, going home, was very
thoughtful. He knew he had taken a
momentous step in refusing to remain in

Bradstane. He believed it was the best
step that was open to him, and he took
it. It is what men have to do on their
way through Hfe. Steps of some kind
we have to take, though each one maybe
fraught with consequences which we
cannot foresee, and which we can only
appreciate after we have lost all power
in the matter. We can look on, in these
after days, at the results of our actions ;
it is permitted to us to rejoice in the fruits
of our conduct, or, as often as not, to
repine over the same, or to beat our
breasts and wish we had never been born,
but not to alter by so much as a hair's-breadth,
the direction of the road opened
out long ago by our own deed.

CHAPTER II.

Gilbert had said to Roger that he was
only remaining a few days longer at
Thorsgarth ; but as a matter of fact, he
stayed till over the New Year,  being
able, seemingly, to put off the business
which, he every now and then remarked
in a casual way, called aloud to him from
London. He could hardly have enjoyed
himself much, during the latter portion
of his visit  at least, that was Eleanor's
feeling, as she uneasily watched the course
of events after the concert. For a few
days she was quite in the dark as to the
exact state of things. Of course she lay

awake a long time on that particular
night, feeling uneasy about every subject
to which her thoughts turned,  Otho, Gilbert,
Magdalen, Ada ; she felt no sense
of security or comprehension with regard
to any one of them. Why did Magdalen,
after behaving so well at first under the
insult which Otho had put upon her, fall
off so lamentably afterwards  tamely submitting
to his behest, and allowing him to
drive home with her ?

And Gilbert  in whom, to a certain
extent, she had put her trust  was no more
than a broken reed. He had promised to
see that all should go right, and, on the
contrary, everything had gone wrong 
just as wrong as it could possibly go ;
and he seemed neither vexed nor uneasy
about it, but allowed things to take their
course.

When she met Otho at lunch, after his
quarrel with Roger, and saw his sullen
look, and heard his sulky, curt remarks

and replies, she felt miserable, in spite
of telling herself that it was no affair of
hers ; and she did not venture to inquire
what had angered him. She vaguely-dreaded
to hear his reply. The Christmas
Day, which happened also to be a
Sunday, came ; and the doctor's 
was to be on the twenty-sixth.
She had not seen Mrs. Johnson since the
concert, and was therefore in ignorance
as to what had happened at the mills, and
it suited Gilbert for a day or two to say
nothing to her. So she lived on in uneasiness,
and sometimes caught herself
thinking of her former life, which she had
left six weeks ago, as if it were a hundred
years away from her ; and of her uncle
and cousin Paul on their travels, as if they
were inhabitants of another world, journeying
on seas and in lands unheard of.

Things were in this condition on Monday
afternoon, and she was sitting alone in her
parlour in the waning daylight, when Barlow

came in with a message from Gilbert,
to know if she would see him. Her
thoughts, which had strayed away from the
painful present, were suddenly pulled back
again to their post. Instinctively bracing
herself to meet something disagreeable,
she bade Barlow show Mr. Langstroth up,
and then sat and waited for him.

In a minute, however, he was with her ;
and, as usual, his presence, unwished for,
and even dreaded in anticipation, proved
in reality soothing, almost agreeable.
Eleanor struggled against this power of
Gilbert to make himself agreeable to her ;
resented it deeply in her heart, as a sort
of disloyalty to his brother, to whom she
had in her soul given irrevocably and forever,
the place of master of her heart and
destiny. This last was as strong a feeling
as anything which could be experienced ;
but, nevertheless, Gilbert possessed this
power of being agreeable to her when he
came, and the fact puzzled and annoyed

her more than she would have cared to
own.

You are very kind to let me see you,"
he said at once, as he took the chair she
pointed to. '' I have been wanting to speak
to you for a day or two  about Otho."

Ah, I knew it was about Otho. Say
on, and let us have done with it."

Perhaps that will not be so easy,
either. However, I will say on, as you
suggest. Before I could speak to you, I
wished to accomplish a certain piece of
business. I have now done so, and am
free to say what I like. I suppose you
have been noticing how angry Otho looks,
without being able in your own mind to
assign a cause for it ? "

'* Unless the cause is that he is unhappy
because he has been doing wrong."

Gilbert repressed a smile.

I am afraid I cannot comfort you by
confirming that theory of yours. By ' doing
wrong,' I suppose you mean his little

escapade at the concert the other night.
Yes, I see. Well, I imagine he has forgotten
all about that by now. He is
angry, or * unhappy,' if you like, because
he has been, and is being, put to great
inconvenience, and he doesn't like it ; it
makes him uncomfortable."

Then he told her about the quarrel
between Otho and Roger, with a sort of
amused carelessness, as if he had been
diverted by the combat, and somewhat
contemptuous of the combatants, which
tone puzzled and did not reassure his
hearer.

Otho does not like office work," he
went on, smiling openly. '* He has not
had much of it yet ; but the factories reopen
tomorrow, after the holiday, and
then he will have to try a little of it. I
have telegraphed to a man whom I know
to send down some one suitable, and I
have promised Otho to wait until the someone
comes, and just to put him in the way

of business ; but it may be a week or so
before my friend can hit upon the right
kind of man. That makes him very

angry "

You don't seem to think anything of
the way in which he has behaved," burst
forth Eleanor indignantly, and the colour
high in her cheeks. '' I think it is the
most abominable thing I ever heard of 
his treating Mr. Camm in that way. It

IS it IS

Words failed her. She felt as if she
would choke with anger and disgust.
Gilbert's eyes were fixed upon her face ;
the slight smile was still hovering about
his lips.

You talk about what makes hin angry,
as if it mattered. He deserves to be put
to inconvenience. He does not deserve
to be helped out of it. What becomes of
Mr. Camm ?"

'* Oh, I have seen Roger. We understand
each other. But don't you want to

hear all that I have to tell you ? I have
another piece of news."

What is it ? " she asked, feeling from
the way in which he spoke that it must be
news of some importance, and staying her
anger to hear it.

"Something else has happened, which
ought to have made him forget his anger,
one would think. I told him he ought to
tell you about it, but he says he won't ; it
is all between him and her. He does not
feel inclined to talk about it, and, in short,
I see you half guess already. Yes ; it is
quite true. He got engaged to Miss
Wynter the other night."

*' Engaged  to  Miss  Wynter ! "
Eleanor stared at him incredulously. '' She
took him  after what he had done ?"

Gilbert laughed aloud.

'' She took him, it would appear. I
thought you ought to be informed of it.
Probably all the neighbourhood Is gossiping
over it by now, and you would have

looked ridiculous if you had heard people
talking about it, and had not understood''

 I  oh, to be ridiculous is nothing, it
seems to me, if one is not disgraceful," said
Eleanor, and paused, because she could
not help wondering what Gilbert felt about
it himself. If she were to judge from his
present manner, she would have said that
he regarded it all from a superior standpoint,
as a kind of joke amongst some
unsophisticated creatures, whose habits it
amused him to study ; but, recollecting the
very different tone he had lately taken,
and his present avowed conviction that
he thought it serious enough to come and
tell her about it, since Otho would not, she
felt that his motives were quite beyond her
comprehension. So she ceased to speculate
upon them, and turned her attention
to another point.

'* It is all very extraordinary to me, and
most disagreeable  the way in which it has
been done," she said, and again caught the

curious expression, half amusement, half  
what ? in Gilbert's look. " You know
them both much better than I do. Do
you think it will be for his good ? "

In a way, I am sure it will. It is perfectly
certain that whatever kind of woman
Miss Wynter may be, as a woman, she is
the only one who has, or ever had, any
shadow of influence over him. She knows
him thoroughly. She knows the frightful
risks she is running,  perhaps she does not
feel them frightful  and she knows the
precarious state of his fortunes at the
present time. With her eyes open she
has taken him. If they would or could be
married at once she might do a great deal
to retrieve his affairs."

'' I did not mean that exactly," said
Eleanor, going on with what she did mean,
despite what seemed to her Gilbert's look
of mockery. " I was thinking more of the
moral influence. I should have thought
that a woman of higher mind  one

who would have roused him to better

things "

Yes, that is a very fine idea," said
Gilbert, with ready benevolence  " that
theory of overcoming evil with good.
The thing is, how far is it practicable ?
You speak as a woman, and a good woman.
I see as a man, and a man of the world.
And speaking from my knowledge of menin
general, and of your brother Otho in
particular, I should say Miss Wynter
would make him a far more suitable wife
than the best of women, filled with high
aspirations and noble aims. Magdalen
Wynter understands him by reason of
being composed of a similar clay. Understanding
him, she will lead him  at
least, very often. A saint would simply
exasperate him into something ten times
worse than he is. You do not know the
ease, the comfort, and the help it is to be
understood ; how it can keep a wavering
man in the right, and drag a sinning man

out of the wrong. Good people don't
need half as much understanding as bad
ones, and with due respect to you and to
current notions on the subject, saints and
people who never do wrong are not those
who are the most sympathetic and comprehending.
It sounds very degrading, I
dare say, but it is true  true as anything
can be."

Gilbert spoke with much more emphasis
than usual, and with a shade of bitterness
in his tone. Had Roger Camm been
there, he would have understood it in a
moment ; it would have confirmed some
vague suspicions long entertained by him.
But to Eleanor, it seemed as if Gilbert
were composing an apology for wrongdoing
; making it out as being rather meritorious
than otherwise. With emphasis
equal tq his own, and with some bitterness
in her tone also, she replied 

I dare say you may be right. Men of
the world usually are right, on the outside,

at any rate ; but I look inside, and it seems
to me that all this is very sad and dreadful,
too. Life is full of these horrible contradictions,
and it appears as if you can
never have any good or beautiful thing
without as it were a heap of dust and
ashes beside it, spoiling it all."

Gilbert laughed a little, and she felt
chilled  not vexed with him  as she was
conscious she ought to have been, but discouraged
by the fact that he was about to
differ from her.

'* Why, of course," he admitted. " Is it
not in the very nature of life, as we know
life, that it should be so ? What are the
good and beautiful things, as you call
them, except sacrifices and aspirations or
struggles after something higher and better
than our everyday fight and grind ? And
how can you have beautiful sacrifices without
something bad and mean to call them
out ? and how can you aspire after the
better, without a worse which makes the

VOL. III. 42

better desirable to you ? But for the dust-heaps,
I do not really see how the shrines
and temples would ever get their due
share of admiration."

'admiration !" repeated Eleanor Indignantly
; " as if one admired a holy place !
I dare say you have risen superior to all
such superstitious considerations, but I say
again, I think it is horrible ; and I maintain
that I do not think Miss Wynter is a good
or a high-principled woman, and I am very
sorry Otho is going to marry her."

"Which of them do you look upon as
the temple, and which as the cinder-heap ?"
asked Gilbert politely, but with a queer
look. Eleanor was furious with herself
for laughing out, quickly and readily ; but
she had to admit that Gilbert had the best
of It. Then a sudden gravity came over
her ; she caught her breath, and looked at
him in renewed bewilderment. In what
lleht did he wish her to see him ; how did
he desire her to view him, that he, who

had cheated his brother, and undermined
his father's integrity, should have the
effrontery to sit there and talk lightly
about wrong being necessary to call forth
the higher life, and to say that temples
could not be properly "admired," unless
there were sordid details close to them, to
emphasize their beauty ? Seen from her
point of view, his conversation was sickening
in its hypocrisy and unreality ; and yet
again the feeling of surprise came over
her  she was interested in it ; she could
not feel revolted. Was the man's personal
influence really so potent as to nullify all
the effect of what she knew to his disadvantage
?

Gilbert had listened to her last words
with an amused smile, betraying by nothing
whether she hurt him or not ; his gaze met
hers steadily, and he continued to watch
her while she silently reflected. At last
he said, lightly still, and coldly 

I see you are wondering what to make

of me. It is very natural  In you ; and if
you can trust me far enough to believe that
anything disinterested can proceed out of
my mouth, I would suggest to you not to
go on wondering any more, but to listen
to me, and attentively consider what I have
to say to you."

Eleanor started, reddening with confusion,
and feeling, with a sudden revulsion,
as some child might, which, instead of
attending to its professor's discourse, had
been speculating about the wrinkles on the
brow of the learned man, and was suddenly
called to order. An immense distance
seemed to open up at once between her
and Gilbert. She remembered the sentiments
she had attributed to him of admiration
for herself, and felt that egregious
vanity must have led her very far astray.

Indeed, I will listen to whatever you
have to say. I think you are very kind
to take so much trouble about  poor Otho."

' Poor Otho,' as you call him, is my

oldest friend ; I know him better than anyone
else does, except perhaps the lady we
have been speaking of, whose acquaintance
with him dates from the very same time.
You laughed just now  you could not help.
Does not your common sense now explain
to you that it is much better to take menas
they are, and provide them with the
best that circumstances will allow, instead
of wanting to insist on their having formate
an ideal which does not suit, and
which they would hate if they had to live
with it ? That is my view of the case."

Very well," said she resignedly. " Goon."


I was about to observe that though
Otho certainly appears disposed just now
to kick over the traces altogether, and not
listen to anything that any one has to say
to him, yet I think I may still say, I have
more influence over him than any one else
has. But upon my soul, I do not know
how long it may last He has got some

notion into his head which, for a wonder,
he has not confided to me, and I cannot
answer for the freaks which it may inspire
him to play. I wonder if you will think
me impertinent for asking, did you know
much about Otho and his character before
you came to live here ? "

No  at least, my uncle, Mr. Stanley,
used to say he was afraid Otho was rather
fast, and told me not to let him bet. I
think," added Eleanor, with rather a sad
smile, " that if we had known him better,
we should not have wasted our words in
that way."

'' I think something still more probable
is, that you would not have wasted your
time in coming here."

I did not choose to come here. It so
fell out that this was the right place for me
to come to."

'' You had nowhere else to go ? "

'' Practically nowhere. My aunt died,
and my uncle's health had so given way

that he and Paul  my cousin, and their only
child  have gone to travel together for an
indefinite time. Where should I have
thought of coming to but to my home ? "

She raised her head, and looked at him
both proudly and sadly. Gilbert's eyes
fell  not in confusion, but reflectively.

True," he admitted after a moment.
And you intend to remain here ' "

Certainly I do. Why should I go ? "

Oh, there are many reasons. It is nota
pleasant house for you to be in."

Eleanor felt as if Otho's conduct were
being commented upon, and she herself
tutored by some one who was much mOre
master of the situation than she was. She
did not exactly like it, but she was powerless
to resent it ; she did not quite know
whether she wished even to resent it.

'' It is a dreary house," said she at
length. '' It is depressing to me, too.
But I don't know that one may always
leave a place just because it happens not
to be pleasant."

Ah ! You know Otho Is going away
when I do ? "

Yes."

I will answer for it that you will not
see much more of him till after the Derby
Day, and perhaps not then. Don't you
think it would be advisable for you to
have a change, too ? "

"A change  in the depth of winter 
after being here just six weeks ? No, I do
not."

'' You are very decided, I see. Pardon
me for pressing the question again. Are
you quite decided to stay here ? "

'' Yes. Why not ? Why should I go
away ? It is my home, as I said before,"
she said, looking at him rather
impatiently.

You will be very dull. Otho, you see,
has no scruples about leaving you, and will
not return an hour the sooner from the
knowledge that you are here alone."

And if I like Bradstane, and wish to

remain at Thorsgarth, In spite of this
dulness, and in spite of what Otho does ? "

He shrugged his shoulders.

*' Of course, in that case. There are
compensations sometimes, which go a long
way towards repaying a little dulness and
solitude. Every one to his taste. If
that is yours, I may as well proceed to tell
you that my advice to you would be to
prepare for reverses."

Reverses ? "

Yes. Racing, and the sort of horse
dealing in which Otho indulges  never to
mention a dozen other expensive little
trifles that he likes, are not profitable
occupations, and he has not found them so.
I speak plainly. You may live to see very
evil days at Thorsgarth, If you choose to
remain here. You may live to see Otho
reduced to poverty, and, if your feelings
are easily worked upon, your own fortune
in danger  that is, if you should let yourself
be deluded into the idea that you can

help him out of his difficulties, and set him
on his legs again."

'* I think I could meet reverses, if they
came, without too much lamenting."

"In addition to which he may at anytime
get married to your favourite, Magdalen
Wynter, and request you to find
another home."

I have a house of my owen, and I
should not wait to be asked to go."

Oh, you mean the Dower House  a
nice old house, that. It stands quite near
to my own old home, the Red Gables."

'' Yes. I have thought sometimes it
would be a pleasant house to live in,
as "

As you are so much alone," interposed
Gilbert almost eagerly. '' Don't you
really think that it would be much better
than for you to be here, alone, without
chaperon or companion "

'' Nay," interposed Eleanor, half-smiling ;
'' don't twit me with that. I don't want

a chaperon ; but if I did, how could I have
one, when you know very well that Otho
says "

She stopped. Otho had said that one
petticoat in the house was more than
enough for him, and he would put up with
no more. Gilbert smiled.

'' Yes, I know what Otho says. I was
not twitting you, I only wish you would
see that reason tells you to leave him, and
not mix yourself in his affairs."

** Your reason may. Mine does not.
Mine tells me that Otho is my brother ;
and I'm sure he is wretched with his own
wrong doing, though you scoff at the ide.
Do you mean to tell me that Otho is
happy ?  you cannot. And my reason
tells me that, sometime, I might find a
way of helping him. He might want to
come home and have some one to be kind
to him, sometime. And I might be away,
and never hear of it till a long time afterwards.
I don't mean to say that nothing

would induce me ever to go to the Dower
House ; that is a different thing. But I
will not think of leaving Bradstane.
Men's reason is proverbially superior to
women's reason, you know. Perhaps that
is why we don't agree."

Perhaps it is," said he tranquilly.
'rafter what you have said it would be
impertinence in me to urge anything
further. Perhaps I have gone too far
already. I was under the impression that
you were very unhappy in Bradstane, but
I am pleased to find that my fears were
exaggerated. I am very glad you have
found mitigating circumstances, and I hope
the good may continue to outweigh the
evil in your estimation."

He spoke politely and coldly. Eleanor
sat silent and almost breathless. Gilbert
had never spoken to her thus before.
She was alarmed at his tone, and it brought
back to her recollection all the dissertations
she had heard from Dr. Rowntree on the

subject of his infernal cleverness, as the
worthy Friend called it. At the same
moment she recalled a descriptive sentence
which she had heard Otho utter not long
ago. '' Finding "  he had said, speaking
of some acquaintance who had long unsuccessfully
wooed a lady  '' finding the
sentimental dodge no go, he took to intimidation,
and fairly bullied her into it."

A convulsive smile twitched her lips.
She did not believe now that Gilbert's
altered tone arose from disappointed sentiment.
A much more prosaic reason
suggested itself to her, namely, that the
sentiment had been assumed in order to
amuse himself, and see what the effect
would be upon her. He must stand sorely
in need of some kind of amusement at
Thorsgarth, she reflected, and that was
the one nearest to his hand. His present
demeanour and sentiments were probably
those of the natural man. What he had
just said convinced her that he did not

more than half believe in her desire to
remain in order to be of some possible
service to Otho. She was more than ever
sure of this when he rose and said 

I will not detain you any longer, I
know you are going out this evening, and
I know that children's parties begin early,
as a rule."

'eyes, that is "

"Oh I know what a benevolent old
gentleman Dr. Rowntree is, especially to
those who are his favourites. He would
like to give them all Christmas presents
and kisses, young and old, big and little.
I wish you a very pleasant evening."

She was silent still. Gilbert wished her
good afternoon, and departed.

From various allusions which he let fall
before he went away, he gave her to
understand that he knew Michael had
been at the doctor's party. Eleanor tried
to ignore these hints, and to look openly
at Gilbert when he spoke of his brother ;

but her heart was hot within her, with
mingled fear and indignation ; fear lest
he should even yet harbour some scheme
of harm against Michael ; indignation at
what she considered his audacity in
naming him, and a miserable sense that
she had better not provoke him, or the
results mioht be bad for Otho. Gilbert
sought her society no more ; he had no
more of those pleasant, gentle . things
to say to her, such as he had uttered
on the night of the concert. She became
convinced that he regarded her with
dislike, if not with enmity, and she withdrew
herself as much as possible from his
and Otho's society. Gilbert had yet
another twist to give to the tangled coil
Into which her thoughts had got, concerning
him, and he did it ingeniously. He
was alone with her in the drawings-room,
after dinner, on the evening before the
day on which he and Otho were to depart
He took a card case from his pocket,

extracted a card from it, and gave It to
her.

That is my London address," said he,
with the blandest of smiles. " If you
should ever  since you will remain at
Thorsgarth  find yourself involved in
difficulties with Otho, or in any other
circumstances in which the advice of a 
business man would be of any use to you,
telegraph there to me, and I will be with
you within four-and-twenty hours."

'' Oh, Mr. Langstroth "

Don't, pray, trouble yourself to express
any gratitude. How do you know what
dark motives may lurk beneath my seeming
kindness ? We leave by the seven thirty
train in the morning, so I shall not be
likely to see you again. I will therefore
wish you good-bye now."

Good-bye," said she hesitatingly, feeling
as if she ought to add something to the
baldness of the word, but utterly at a loss
to know what that something should be.

I shall, I hope, be here again for the
shooting, if not before," said Gilbert. *' I
shall hope to find you well, and as pleased
with Thorsgarth  and Bradstane, too  as
you are now."

With which he left her, with his words,
and the tone of them, echoing in her ears,
and with the shadow of his shadowy smile
floating still before her eyes. She was as
far as ever from being able to decide
whether he was a gross hypocrite, or only
a man who had once done very wrong,
and was now trying to do very right.
That he might be something between the
two did not occur to her. 

VOL. III. 43

CHAPTER Il

BRASS POTS AND EARTHENWARE Pippins.

The worst of winter had stormed itself
away, and it was March  the latter end
of March. The leonine portion of his
reign had endured a long time this year,
and though it was now over, the warmer
gales had yet some north-east to blow
back, and the dominion of the lamb had
not fairly set in. And yet, there was the
caress of spring in the air  that caress
which is unmistakable, and which may be
felt, if it be there, through the bleakest
wind and the coldest rain. This caress
was in the air, and the hue of spring was
in the sky. Here and there her fingers

had swept aside the withered leaves, and
allowed a violet to push its way up ; and
in some very sheltered southern corners
appeared a tuft or two of primroses. In
the garden borders at Thorsgarth, the
crocuses were beginning to make a
gallant show. The blue behind the
rolling white clouds was deep and profound,
 steady and to be relied upon.
In the shady corners of the garden,
under the budding trees, the clumps of
daffodils were putting forth their tender
first shoots, ready to nod their heads and
laugh through the April showers. And
the grass, too, was recovering its colour,
its green, which weeks under the snow
had faded and browned.  Everything
was full of promise. Nature stepped
forward, erect and laughing, jocund, casting
the burden of her sadness behind her ;
not as in autumn, advancing droopingly
towards it.

So much for the garden, the cultivated.

Outside, the roads were heavy and soft
with mud ; but it was a mud to make glad
the heart of man, especially farming man.
The ploughed fields, stretching their great
shoulders towards the uplands, looked rich
in their purple-brown hue. The hedgerows
here and there seemed to wear a
filmy, downy veil, the first output of
yellow-green buds. In the great pastures
near Rookswood, on the Durham side of
Tees, the giant ash trees stood yet in
their winter bareness, giving no sign, save
by the hard, burnished black buds, which
for months to come were meaning to holdfast
their secret wealth of bud and leaf,
their treasure of summer glory. There
was every promise that this year the oak
would be out before the ash, with, it was
to be hoped, the proverbial result.

It was on such an afternoon as this,
when the breeze blew from the southwest,
that Eleanor walked along one of
the muddy lanes leading from Thorsgarth

to Bradstane. Beside her trotted Mrs.
Johnson's Httle girl, Effie, whom Eleanor
had borrowed a week or two ago from
her mother, to keep her company in the
solitude of Thorsgarth. For Gilbert's
prophecy had been fulfilled. She found it
very lonely there, so lonely that she was now
on her way, half-willingly, half-reluctantly,
to the Dower House, in order to inspect it
from garret to cellar, and think whether
it would not better suit her as a residence
than the great dreary house which had
grown so oppressive to her.

As they came in their walk to a bend in
the river, Effie suddenly said 

'' How full the river is just now ; and so
brown and strong ! Dr. Langstroth says he
remembers the river longer than anything
else ; and he says that Tees is as broad
as Bradstane is long. Isn't that queer ? "

Eleanor laughed. It is an indubitable
fact, and one which she had herself noted
with amusement during the first part of

her stay in Bradstane, that in a town like
this, or, indeed, in any small town or
village situated upon a stream as big as
the Tees, " the river " becomes the important
feature of the neighbourhood.
What it looks like, whether it be high or
low ; in winter, whether the river be
frozen or flowing; and in fishing-time,
what sort of a water the river shows
to-day ; whether there has been rain to
the north-west, which floods it, or whether
drought, which makes it dry. Whenever
the conversation turns upon out-of-door
subjects, the river is sure to assert itself
somewhere or other, and that before very
long. It is the same as a living thing,
and that a powerful one ; its moods are
watched and recorded as if they were the
moods of a person in whom one took a
deep interest. It is for ever the river,
the river ; and this watery friend, and
enemy  for it is both  gives a colour, and
has an influence over the lives that are

lived near it, which is very remarkable,
especially to those who know nothing of
such surroundings. And Tees, be it
remarked, is a river with a powerful individuality,
which none in his vicinity can
afford to despise.

'' He says that because people think so
much about the river here," said Eleanor.
You must know how they talk about it.
You never go anywhere without finding
the Tees,  in people's houses as well as
here flowing through the meadows. That
is what he means."

'' I suppose it must be," said Effie, who
was a philosophical child. And they went
on in silence. Eleanor resumed the
mental debate which had been occupying
her before  as to the wisdom of the step
she contemplated taking. It would be
separating herself from Otho, at one
moment, she thought , and then she remembered
Gilbert's dry words  that Otho
left her without scruple, and that no thought

of her loneliness would bring him back a
moment before it was convenient or pleasant
to him to come. That was true ; she
would most likely see quite as much of
him at the Dower House as at Thorsgarth.
She had not had a line from him since he
had gone away with Gilbert to London.
Once or twice she had seen Magdalen,
who had mentioned having heard from
him ; but Eleanor suspected that his letters
to Magdalen even, were very brief. Miss
Wynter volunteered no details or news,
and Eleanor felt no more drawn to her
than before, and disdained to ask for information
which was not proffered.

Once or twice she had ventured on
making a tour of inspection all round the
Thorsgarth park and grounds, penetrating
even to the courtyards, the kennels, and
stables which lay behind the house. What
she saw there did not tend to encourage
her. She found that everything was conducted
with a lavish profusion, a reckless

extravagance, which would have been
fooHsh in any case ; and it was a lavishness
which had also its stingy side, as such
lavishness usually has. While necessary
repairs were left neglected for months, or
undone altogether, many pounds would
be spent on some new contrivance for
warming or ventilating a stable, already
luxuriously fitted up. While some of the
men on the farm complained that their
carts were falling to pieces, silver-mounted
harness was accumulating in the harness-room,
for no earthly purpose except to
make a show behind the glass doors. Many
another extravagant and senseless fancy
or whim was indulged to the full, while
ordinary necessaries were stinted. It
seemed to Eleanor that the establishment
swarmed with servants, both men and
maids. Their functions and offices were
a mystery to her. They always seemed
exceedingly busy when she appeared upon
the scene, but she had an uneasy consciousness

that it was only in seeming, and that
as soon as her back was turned, a very-different
state of things again prevailed.
She had been accustomed to a liberal,
and even splendid establishment, but one
conducted on principles of enlightened
economy  without a superfluous retainer,
but at the same time without a fault ora
failure, from one year's end to the other.
The contrast which she saw here offended
her sense of decency and order. She
knew that Otho ought to retrench, and
she would gladly have helped him to do
so, with the joy usually brought to bear
by women, unskilled in active financial
matters, upon this negative process of
saving by means of renouncing things.

Thinking over these things, she now
walked with Effie towards the Dower
House. The old square, when they
reached it, looked very pleasant that sunny
afternoon ; bright sunshine lighting up all
the sober, solid old houses, which stood

reposefully, as If secure for ever of peace
and plenty ; their quiet closed doors and
shining window panes revealing nothing
of the emotions which might be stirring
those who inhabited them. The trees on
either side the square had begun to show
a first tinge of green, like the rest of
nature. Not a soul stirred in the afternoon
quietness ; only Michael's great
dog, Pluto, who lay basking on the flags
outside the Red Gables, looked and
blinked at them lazily as they passed,
and slightly moved the tip of his tail in
reply to their greeting. Next door but
one was the Dower House  a pleasant
old stone building, gray, with a door in
the middle, and two windows on either
side ; upstairs five windows, and a third
story with five windows more. It was,
in fact, a large, substantial stone house,
very suitable as the country residence of
a single woman of some means and position.
It stood on the sunny side of the square.

and like nearly all the houses in it, its
gardens and its pleasantness rooms lay to
the back. It was furnished with old-fashioned
furniture, and kept in order by
an old gardener and his wife, who lived
there. Eleanor liked it. She liked the
windows looking into the broad open
street. Such a prospect seemed to bring
her nearer to humanity, and to the wholesome
everyday life of her fellow-creatures.
The recollection of Thorsgarth, rising
stately from its basement of velvet sward,
rendered dark by the towering trees which
surrounded it,  of the terraces sloping to
the river; the flights of steps, the discoloured
marble fauns and nymphs  this
recollection came over her, and made her
feel dreary. She felt as if she had lived
in it all for years, and had no joy in anyone
of them.

In her own mind she almost resolved to
go to this other house, but she wished to
wait for Otho's return, and explain it all

to him  if ever he should return ; if only
he would return !

Three days later, without letter and
without warning, he came home, late in
the evening, having no apologies to make,
and very few remarks concerning his long
absence and silence. He sat for an hour
or two with his sister, and she found something
in his looks and aspect which did
not tend to allay whatever anxiety she
might have felt about him. The ruddy
brown of his skin had grown sallow and
dark, and his cheeks were hollow. There
was a haggard look about him, and the
traces, unmistakably to be read, that h
had been living hard and fast. His eyes
had sunk ; he was not an encouraging
spectacle, and there was an uneasy restlessness
about hfm which fretted her. She
tried to talk about commonplace things.

Did you see much of the Websterss } "
she asked, alluding to some distant cousins
with whom she had been on terms of

intimacy in former days  days which now
seemed very far back.

Websterss  no ! When I go to town,
I don't go to do the proper with them. I
have other friends and other places to
go to."

'' Lucy told me in a letter that Dick had
met you somewhere."

'rand I've met Dick," retorted Otho,
with an uncomplimentary sneer ; " and
a precious prig he is."

Indeed, Otho, he is not. He is a very
nice lad, and very free from priggishness.
That's his great charm."

*' He's a young milksop."

'' He is neither vulgar nor dissipated,
if that is what you mean."

I haven't wasted my time in thinking
about him."

*' And Mr. Langstroth  how did you
leave him ? "

Gilbert  oh, he's flourishing. By the
way, he sent a message to you,  rather a

complimentary message  and he told me
to be sure and not change it into the very-reverse
of what he wished it to be." Otho
chuckled a little. " Let me see. He
wished to be remembered to you, sent his
best compliments, and hoped to see you
again during the year  perhaps when he
comes for the shooting. I fancy Gilbert
was a bit taken with you, Eleanor. He
was mighty particular about his message."
'' You fancy very uncalled for things."
Hey, but I wouldn't mind having him
for a brother-in-law," persisted Otho ; but
he was too careless even to look at her ashe
aired his views. " A first-rate fellow is
Gilbert, and he has rid me of those blessed
factories, and stumped up like a man. I've
never repented standing his friend when
I did."

She made no answer, and as they were
alone (for Eleanor had judged it better to
send Effie into the background) there
was a silence  that profound silence only

to be heard in the country. Suddenly
Otho started, passed his hand over his
eyes, and exclaimed impatiently 

What a hole of a place this is ! What
a deadly stillness ; it's enough to give one
the blues. I'd open the window, only that
would make it worse, letting in the ' swish '
of that beastly river, which is a sound I
hate. I do detest the country," he continued,
poking the fire with vigour. " Give
me the pavement, and chambers, where
you hear the rattle going on all night.
This confounded place would depress the
spirits of a dog, I do believe."

** Does Magdalen know you are here ?
Why don't you go up and see her ? "

'' Magdalen ? " He gave a little start.
Oh, never mind Magdalen ! She understands
me. She is not a child, nor a lovesick
girl, to expect me to be always at her
apron-strings. I shall see Magdalen, trust
me. But I'm off into Friarsdale the day
after tomorrow."

** Friarsdale again ! "

*' Ay ! There's a heap of things to see
after. I shall have to be back and forward
from there till it's time to take Crackpot
down to Epsom. . . . Did you ever see
a Derby, Eleanor ? "

'' No."

Would you like to ? "

*' Not when a horse of yours is running."

Little starched out puritan ! You
might write a tract, or get Michael Lang-troth
to do it, and have it printed, and
salve your conscience over, by distributing
it over the grand stand."

'' I have something to say to you, Otho.
I do not like living alone in this great
house when you are so much away ; and
I have been thinking whether to go to the
Dower House, and take up my abode there."

"Hoi!" Otho paused. "While you
are about it, why not cut the whole concern,
and go to the Websterss ? " he said.
'' They would be overjoyed to have you.

VOL. in. 44

It doesn't suit you ? I knew It wouldn't ;
but you would come. You see, my
dear, when a little earthenware pipkin
of a woman jumps into the water, and is
for sailing along with the brass pots, she
generally comes to grief. My life suits
me ; but it is so unlike all you have been
accustomed to, that you can't fit into it 
can't even settle down to look on at it.

You look downright ill now, and "

Otho ! that shows how little you understand,"
said she, a convulsive laugh struggling
with her inner bitterness of heart.
The whole things came before her as so
tragicomic ; so horrible, yet so laughable.
So Otho thought that playing fast and
loose with his life, drinking and dicing,
brawling and betting, and generally conducting
himself like a blackguard, was a
fine, heroic thing  a proof that he was a
brass pot amongst men, and able to sail
unharmed down that stream. Ludicrous,
pitiable, agonizingly laughable theory !

'rit remains to be proved which of us
two is the brass pot, and which the pipkin,"
she went on, unable to help smiling.
For my part, I fancy we are both made
of very common clay. But, to leave
parables, I would rather not go to the
Websterss. My ideas about life and other
things have changed very much lately.
I would rather not return to my old one
at present. I should prefer to go to the
Dower House, if it will be all the same
to you."

Oh, quite. Since you prefer to stay
here. It is an odd taste, I think, for a
girl brought up as you have been. But
you are better away from here. There's
no doubt of that."

Eleanor was looking at him as he
spoke, and saw, more plainly than before,
the haggardness, and the lines upon his
face ; it seemed to her that they had been
planted there since she had last seen him,
but this might be imagination. She was

Startled by a resemblance which she
fancied she discovered in this altered face
of his, to a miniature of their father
which was In her possession  that father
who had been In tastes, character, and
disposition, so utterly unlike the son who
followed him. Since coming to Thorns
she had often studied this miniature,
wondering how such a father came to
have such a son. At this moment Otho
was leaning his head back, as If weary.
His wild eyes were closed, so that their
strange, savage look did not distort the
likeness. Compunction, longing, yea, love
rushed Into her heart.

'* Otho ! " she said, in a voice which
trembled ; and he looked up.

'* What's up ? " he demanded, seeing
with surprise that she had risen and was
coming towards him.

'' Dear Otho ! " she repeated, as she
knelt before him, and clasped his hand
in her own ; '* why am I better away from

you ? Why better away from my own
brother, and my father's house, where he
intended me to find my home ? It is
not right, Otho ; it is not right that it
should be so. Ah, if you would only be
different, how happy we might be  you
and Magdalen and I ; and where in all
your world outside will you find anything
that will endure as our love to you will ? 
for I know that Magdalen does love you,
though you treat her cruelly, as you treat
me."

Otho stared down into her face with a
strange, alien glance ; a shocked, wondering
look. He was not rough ; he dfd
not repulse her, but he looked as if she
had been apostrophizing him in some
strange tongue, which he could not understand.
Presently he said 

Little girl, you don't know what you
are talking about. /, settle down with
you and Magdalen ! Heaven help you !
I should be mad, or dead of it in a very

short time. It Is a thousand pities you
should think you have got anything todo
with my concerns. Leave me alone,
that's a good child. I'm past any mending
of yours."

She still knelt by his chair, gazing, as
if she vould have forced the secret of
his wild, unhappy nature to show itself.
Perhaps she thought of the happy dark
days she had read of, when holy women,
by dint of fasting and prayer and faith,
could master even such savage souls as
Otho's  could cast forth devils, and so
relieve the souls of wretched men. Those
days must be past, for she could gather
nothing from her searching gaze. Perhaps
she was not holy enough. She had
praised, but she had not fasted ; and to
judge from Effie's chatter, she had renounced
none of the pomps and vanities
of her station.

You will be all right at the Dower
House," Otho resumed presently. " Then

you can have people to stay with you, and
make yourself a little less dull. There !
get up, don't look so desperately sentimental.
I am as I am ; and I shall get
along, if you'll leave me alone."

With that, he rose and put her aside,
but gently and quietly ; and she was almost
sure that the hands which rested for a
moment on her shoulders, quivered a little.

Otho went into the smoking-room, shut
the door, and turned up the light. He
took a brandy decanter from a case of
spirits which stood on the sideboard, and
poured some into a glass ; and this time
there was no question as to his anti
trembling. His lips, too, were unsteady.
He drank the brandy, and muttered to
himself 

** I must go and see Magdalen, or she
will be suspicious. But not to-night 
not to-night. Surely tomorrow will do.
What was It she said to me that night
about wronging her ? "

He threw himself into a chair, and
tried to collect his thoughts, and shape
a coherent recollection of Magdalen's
words. At last he had gradually pieced
them together, and with them the scene
in which they had been uttered  the
great square, draughty vestibule before
the Balder Hall door ; the north-west
storm wind screaming past it ; his own
figure, and that of Magdalen ; the way
in which they had stood close together,
and the vows he had forced from her ; and
how at last she had put her hands upon
his shoulders, and looked him straight in
the eyes, and said that she did not claim
any vows from him, but only bade him
remember that whatever wrong he did
her, directly or indirectly, from that day
forth, he did to his wife, for that he washers,
as much as she was his.

** Well," he thought, as he laughed a
feeble echo of his old blustering laugh,
"it would not be the first time a man

J

had wronged his wife either ; but I
shan't. I shall tell the little baggage not
to make a fool of herself, but to keep

her languishing eyes for her bear of a

If)
over.

Otho, as he made these reflections, was
thinking of no one in London. His sister
had taken it for granted that he came
straight from his sojourn with Gilbert
Langstroth,  a very great mistake, as he
had driven that very morning from Friars -
dale to Darlington, and taken the train
thence to Bradstane.

On the following day some kind of an
interview took place between Otho ajd
Magdalen. Eleanor saw very little of the
other. They were amicable when they
met, but nothing more. The day after
that Otho went into Friarsdale, not saying
that he was returning there, but simply
that he was ofoinof. Eleanor was thus
again left alone, and as soon as her young
visitor had returned to the vicarage, she

began her preparations for removing to
the Dower House.

One day, in the course of these preparations,
she had cause to go into the shop of
Ada Dixon's father. Mrs. Dixon herself
came forward to serve her. She was, as
usual, stout, pompous, and important-looking,
had on a superfine gown, and a cap
which struck Miss Askam as being ridiculously
young and small for her. Mrs.
Dixon wore it with an air, as if it had
been a coronet, which added to the absurdity
of the spectacle. Eleanor had never
liked this woman, whose hard eyes and
want of simplicity and directness had
always offended her ; and she liked not
the air with which she now came forward.
But that it was (thought Eleanor) absurd
on the face of the elinor she would have
considered the glance bestowed upon herby
Mrs. Dixon as an insolent one. It
was at least hard, bold, and supercilious.
Not thinking it worth while to betray that

she had even noticed this manner, Eleanor
made her purchases, which were set aside
for her by Mrs. Dixon in lofty silence.
While she sought in her purse for the sum
with which to pay for the things, she inquired


How Is your daughter, Mrs. Dixon ?
I have not seen her lately."

*' Thank you, Miss Dixon is very well."
(Eleanor repressed a smile on hearing
Ada's mother speak of her thus.) " She
is not at home just at present. She's
staying with some friends in Yorkshire
  in the Dales  some relations of Mr.
iron s. 

Oh yes ? In which of the Dales ? "
'* Wensleydale. My husband's cousin
has a place there " (a large farm would
have been the correct description), '' near
Beale, it is."

*' Oh, I hope she is enjoying herself."
*' Oh, very much, thank you. She's
very much sought after sixpence you will

want, I think  and they visit a good deal
amongst the neighbours."

'' Yes ? And Mr. Camm ? I hope you
have good accounts of him ? "

I really haven't heard anything about
him lately," said Mrs. Dixon, in an indescribable
tone, as she poised the fingers
of both hands on the counter and looked
out of the window, as if she thought the
interview had better come to an end.

'' Ah, I suppose Ada will be the person
to get news of him. I was so glad to hear
he had done so well, and got such an
excellent situation at Leeds. Ada will like
to live near a large town like that, I should
think."

** Well, yes  perhaps. Perhaps not,"
said Mrs. Dixon, with a glacial reserve,
and then with crushing mysteriousness 
'' There's no saying where Ada may
end, or what she's born to. She is not a
common girl, by any means."

'' I hope she will end in marrying Mr.

Camm, an.! making him a very good wife.
He is a first-rate young man, and deserves
to be made happy," said Eleanor, nettled
by the supercilious tone in which Roger's
future mother-in-law spoke of him.

Oh, he's a very worthy young man,
I don't doubt," came the rejoinder; "a
little rough, and wanting in polish  hardly
the genteel manners one could desire."

No, not very genteel, certainly," said
Eleanor, hurrying a little in her desire to
be able to laugh at leisure over the complaint
that Roger Camm's manners were
not "genteel." Indeed, they were not. If
gentility were the desideratum, they were
deplorably wanting, and likely to remain
so.

Going up the street she suddenly met
Michael Langstroth, and could not help
telling him the joke, her eyes dancing as
she spoke.

*' Mr. Langstroth, do you know that for
years you have cherished as your brother

a person  I can call him nothing else 
whose manners are' not genteel. At least,
Mrs. Dixon says they are not,  not as
genteel as she could wish in her son-in-law
 and she ought to know."

Michael looked at her searchingly fora
perceptible time, before he replied 

'' At last you have heard something that
has made you laugh," said he. '' I am
delighted, and Roger may congratulate
himself on his want of gentility, if it leads
even indirectly to that good result."

Why  how  what do you know about
my laughing ? " she asked, crimsoning.

Nothing, except that you don't do it
often enough. I wish I could give you
a prescription, but there is none for the
ailment that is want of mirth ; none in all
the pharmacopeia."

She took her leave of him, and walked
away. No, she thought ; the herb that
brings laughter is called heartless, and
for her just now it grew not in Bradstane.

CHAPTER IV.

FIRST ALARM.

One day, very early in May, Michael
Langstroth wrote from Bradstane to Roger
Camm in Leeds : 

'* A strong sense of duty alone induces
me to trouble you with a letter, for there
is literally no news to tell you. When
was there ever any in Bradstane ? And
just now we are duller than usual, for
nearly every one is away. People (the few
who are left here) talk now off and on
about the Derby, and speculate whether
Crackpot will win. He is not the favourite,
as of course you know, but takes a good
place. I dare say I hear more of that

kind of thing than you do. The British
Medical people meet in Leeds this year.
Of course it won't be till August, but I
have every intention of going ; and putting
up with you ; and I look forward
to it as if it were some wild dissipation.
It is, at any rate, too good a chance to be
missed of hearing and seeing something,
and getting one's blood stirred up generally.
I often wonder I do not turn into
a mummy or a block of wood. On reading
this you will probably leap to the rash
conclusion that your account of two political
meetings, and their consequent excitement,
has roused m} envy and upset my
tranquillity, and that in future, you had
perhaps better not supply me with such
stimulating food ! I beg you will not
cherish any such delusion. Your account
of the meetings was most interesting and
amusing ; but as you know, I have a great
contempt for all political parties in the
abstract, and to see a vast body of men,

swayed like reeds by the passion of
the moment  groaning Hke demons when
they hear one set of names, cheering Hke
maniacs at another, falling Hke Having
storm waves upon any unfortunate wight
who dares to express dissent from their
views, and hunting him out  is to me a
melancholy spectacle. You would doubtless
say, that without such passions and
prejudices to be worked upon, things might
be at a standstill. I suppose they might :
all I know is, I am very thankful that there
are so many men in the world that my
indifference makes no difference. You
will wonder whence this sermon arises.
I have been meditating a good deal lately
o' nights ; having felt tired when I came
in, and not having had your music to
govern my meditations, as in days of old.
And I was thinking, only last night, of
a dispute we used to have in our younger
days, about life and events. I always
maintained (quite wrongly, I confess now)

VOL. III. 45

that you got no real lifcy no movement,
stimulus, animation, outside of a big city :
you vowed that, on the contrary, it is
the nature of the man that determines his
life, and that dramas and tragedies as full
of terror and pathos as Shakespeare's own,
might be played out within even as narrow
a compass as the township of Bradstane-
on-Tees, provided the actors were there,
and that they lived, not played their parts.
You were right, and I suppose you hold
the opinion still ; but this is what I want
to know how often is it that one gets
the chance to live ? Most people would
answer, once at least, in a lifetime ; and
there it is that I totally disagree with
them. Mine is a small stage from which
to preach, but I have seen as many people
as some who live on a larger one, and
I have observed them and their conditions
carefully. And, because of my profession,
the people I have seen have been of all
sorts and conditions, and the conclusion

I have come to is, that most Ives are
filled with emptiness  with a dead, dull
deceitfulness. Action is for the favoured
few ; culture for a great many more, if they
choose to avail themselves of it, which
usually they don't ; monotony for most.

*' That brings me back to my own life,
and its monotony. Let me try to collect
a little gossip for you, and free myself from
the reproach of having sent an essay,
unredeemed by a single touch of narrative.

Otho Askam is away. He has
scarcely been at Thorsgarth since the new
year. Just now he is busied, they say,
about this precious horse which is to jun
this precious race. His sister's house, too,
is empty just now. She was persuaded,
Mrs. Johnson tells me, to go and see her
friends in London for a time ; but is
coming back before Whitsuntide, as, in
the kindness of her heart she is going
to feast some little ragged wretches out
of Bridge Street, whom she has taken

under her wing. But It Is not Whitsuntide
yet. It falls near the end of May
this year. I feel In a communicative
humour to-night, so I will tell you a secret.
My life Is monotonous to me, as I believe
I have set forth already at some length ;
and I wish with all my heart that Eleanor
Askam had not a fortune of twelve hundred
a year ; for if she had nothing at all,
I would humbly ask her If she would condescend
to relieve that monotony of my
life. I should also have the feeling that
I could In a measure pay her back In kind,
by alleviating, as I would, some of the
sorrow that darkens hers.

'' I believe I had something else to say
to you. I am almost certain that I sat
down with a distinct Impression that I
was going to write to you about something.
Oh yes, here it is. I suppose you
hear regularly from Miss Dixon, and so,
of course, you will know that a little while
ago, she returned from her long sojourn In

Wensleydale. I heard she had gone therefor
the pure air and all that, and because
her father's relations wanted to have her,
and because she did not feel very strong
at the end of the winter. You know, I
have always thought her a very delicate
girl, but now  I do not think it right to
conceal it from you  she looks very ill
indeed. Her cheeks have fallen in ; her
face is pale ; she is the shadow of what
she was. I hate to write this ; in fact,
I was so unwilling to write it, that I
scribbled all the rubbish which premises
it, in the hope that, somehow, I might get
out of this ; but I cannot. It would be fio
friend's part ; and what blame would you
not have the right to put upon me, if I
let it pass by without telling you. She is
very ill, I am certain. If I were on
different terms with them, I should go to
Mrs. Dixon, and tell her she ought to
have advice for her. I keep wishing they
would summon me, or Rowntree ; for they

surely must see themselves the change in
her. I fancy she ought to go to a warmer
climate, or rather, she ought never to have
gone to Yorkshire. That part of Wensleydale
where she was, is piercingly cold
worse than this. It is in a valley, but
the valley itself is very much elevated. I
do not want to make you more uneasy
than is necessary. We must recollect that
this is the ' merry month ' of east winds,
bronchitis, and pleurisy, and many a delicate
girl withers up during May and comes
out blooming again in June. Let us hope
this is such a case. Sleep takes possession
of me ; therefore, good night ! "

This letter had veritably been written in
the way described in it. Michael had
beheld Ada, and the change in her; and
as Roger never, in any of his pretty
frequent letters, mentioned any rumour
of the illness of his betrothed, his friend
reluctantly came to the conclusion that he
knew nothing about it, and that to leave

him In such a state of ignorance was
utterly impossible for him. All the first
part of his letter he had written ram-blindly,
half his mind occupied with a
wonder whether he could not absolve himself
from the moral necessity which he
felt upon him, of speaking about Ada. He
could not, and the result was the composition
above, which was written on a
Wednesday night, and despatched on a
Thursday morning. Michael did not
expect any immediate answer to it, but
went about his business, as usual.

On the said Thursday morning, near
the Castle, he met Ada Dixon. There
was, indeed, a piercing east wind blowing,
and the girl wore a common-looking fur
cloak, with which her father had presented
her at Christmas, and of which she had
been proud, in that in shape and fashion
it bore a faint resemblance to the costly
garments in which Miss Wynter and Miss
Askam were in the habit of wrapping

themselves on cold days. Perhaps the
dead black of the cloak showed up her
pallor still more strongly by contrast ; but
as Michael met her  he was on foot, going
to see a patient who lived beside the riverbank
; she ascending a little hill, slowly
and wearily, and he going down it  with
her face a little upturned, and the flickering
light quivering upon it through the
leaves  her white hat and her fair hair, 
as he met her thus, her appearance was
almost spectral in its whiteness and
fragility.

She inclined her head to him, and would
have passed on. But he stopped, and
held out his hand to her.

"Good morning, Miss Dixon. You
must not think me meddlesome, but when
Roger is not here, I consider you a little
bit under my care ; and my duty obliges
me to tell you that you are not looking so
robust as is desirable. Have you been
catching cold ? "

He was surprised at the effect of his
words. Ada's white face became in a
moment angrily red ; the colour rushing
over it in a flood. Her eyes flashed, and
in a voice that was sharp with irritation,
she said 

'' Nothing ails me at all. I'm as well
as I can be, and I think there's no call
for you to make such remarks, Dr. Lang-troth."


I am sure I beg your pardon if I
have offended you. I assure you there is
nothing I less wish to do. I am very glad
if you do feel well. Only, I wish you
looked stronger  that is all."

What do looks matter, when one feels
perfectly well ? " said Ada.

There is certainly a good deal in
that. Good morning. I will not detain
you."

He raised his hat, and was moving on ;
indeed, he had walked a pace or two, when
Ada's voice, just behind him, caused him

to turn again. She looked embarrassed,
and half-stammered, as she said 

Oh, please  do you know  have you
any idea when Miss Askam is coming
home ? "

I have not," said he gravely, and very
much surprised. " At least, I know
nothing of the exact day ; but before
Whitsuntide, Mrs. Johnson says. She
would know, I dare say, if you like to call
and ask her."

'' Oh, thank you ! I'll see. It's  it's not
of so much importance," said Ada. '' Good
morning, Dr. Langstroth."

They parted. Michael went on his
way, and as he went he shook his
head.

It is not of the least use for her to tell
me that she is perfectly well. She is very
ill indeed, and something ought to be done
for her."

Many times during the day he thought
of Ada, and of her changed looks, and

wondered how Mrs. Dixon would take it
if he spoke to her about her daughter.

About seven o'clock, just as he was
sitting down to his solitary dinner, his
dining-room door was opened, and Roger
Camm walked in.

Michael uttered an " ah ! " of pleasure
and relief v/hen he saw the mighty figure
lounge into the room.

You here, Roger ? " he said, jumping
up and grasping his hand. " Was it my
letter ? Did you take the alarm ? "

Ay ! I could not rest another day without
coming to see that child. She scarcely
ever mentions her health ; indeed, never*
so it never occurred to me that there could
be anything the matter with her."

Then, my dear fellow, you must prepare
yourself for a very disagreeable surprise,
that's all. But have some dinner now,
and you can go down and see her afterwards."


Another place was set for Roger, who

made a praiseworthy effort to eat his
dinner, and to talk as if nothing had
happened. He could, however, scarcely
sit out the meal, and the instant it was
over he rose.

*' I've come to you, feeling sure you
would put me up, Michael. I've got what
they call in Leeds * the week-end,' and
must go off again by the late train from
Darlington on Sunday night."

*' Of course you will put up here, and
I'll drive you into Darlington on Sunday.
I suppose you'll go out now ? "

'' Yes. Don't expect me back till you
see me," said Roger, going away ; and
directly afterwards, Michael heard the door
shut after him.

CHAPTER V.

BROKEN OFF.

Despite that cutting east wind, it was a
glorious May evening. The trees and
fields were coming on grandly, and the
sun shone dazzling towards his decline,
In a heaven of bright blue and gold with
piles of glorified clouds in a steady bank
to the north. The beams shone slantingly
all on the old brown houses, and their rays
were flashed back from the windows of the
quaint old sleepy town. As Roger walked
down the street, his heart beating with
foreboding, he was but vaguely conscious
of the stir of life around him, the murmur
and bustle of those whose dav's work was

done, and who were enjoying their pipes,
their gossip, and their games ; for in one
part of the town the youths played quoits
in an open space, while many reverend
elders looked on, and made sententious
remarks as the sport progressed. He was
conscious of receiving here and there a
greeting ; he returned them vaguely, and
went on his way, and presently found himself
within Mr. Dixon's shop, which looked
very mean and low and small, and which
seemed quite filled by his tall and broad
figure. Mr. Dixon was alone in the
shop.

*' Bless my soul, Roger  you ! " he exclaimed.


Yes," replied Roger. " I got a couple
of days" holiday, so I thought I'd run over
and see Ada. Is she in ? "

Yes, she's in. You'll find her upstairs
at her piano. The wife has gone out to
tea. And look you, Roger," he added,
drawing the young man aside, and lowering

his voice, though they were alone,
'' Ada has got uncommon twine and
washed-overlooking, and has taken to
singing the most sentimental songs. I
declare it makes me feel quite low in my
mind to hear her constantly wailing and
wailing. Try to cheer her up a bit."

' That I will ! "

I dare say she's just fretting a bit after
you."

Roger's heart bounded, and fell again.
It could not be so. Ada knew she needed
not to fret after him. But he said, as
cheerfully as he could 

** I'll go upstairs and find her."

With which he went through the shop
into the passage, and quickly up the stairs.
As he ascended, the "wailing" of which
Mr. Dixon had complained became distinctly
audible. It was a very, very
mournful song that Ada sang, and Roger's
heart died within him as he heard it.

He opened the parlour door softly, and

looked in. The piano was opposite to the
door ; therefore Ada, seated at it, had her
back turned towards him. She had ceased
to play within the last minute, and sat very
still, with her hands, he noticed, dropping
down at her sides, in a way that had something
very painful and hopeless about it.
His heart went out to her, and as she did
not at first appear to notice any sound or
any footstep, he walked softly up behind
her ; but not so softly, big and heavy as he
was, and unused to treading gingerly, but
that she could hear him distinctly ; and he
noticed that she suddenly drew her hands
up, and that they were clenched, and that
her shoulders heaved, as if she drew a deep
breath  not as if she were surprised, Roger
thought, hope beginning to beat high in
his heart again, but rather as if she we7e
very glad. She knew, then, that he was
there. She recognized his footstep, and
she was moved, deeply moved, by his
presence.

He laid his hands upon her shoulders,
and said, softly and caressingly 

-Ada!"

She faced him, with the quickness of
lightning, and with a veritable shriek, 
it was too loud, too affrighted to be called
an exclamation  and Roger recoiled before
the expression of the face which was turned
towards him. He literally fell back a step
or two, gazing at her alarmed and speechless,
while she put her hands, one to either
side of her head, and shrank together,
staring at him with a look of terror and
amaze.

"Ada, my love," he began at last,
alarmed and bewildered by the contradiction
between her manner before she had
seen him, and that manner now that she
beheld him. Then she found her voice,
and rose from the music stool.

Roger, Roger ! " she gasped. " How
can you ! Stealing up behind one, and
startling one in that way ! It's enough

VOL. III. 4to

turn the head, if one's a nervous person."


'* But, my darling, I saw that you heard
me," he began ; but she burst into hysterical
tears, turning away from him, and flinging
herself upon a sofa, so that he saw it was
useless to attempt to explain or apologize.
Once it crossed his mind, '' She behaves
almost as if she had expected some one
else." Then he put the idea aside, as we
do put ideas aside which we know would
be absurd in regard to ourselves, often
without stopping to make allowances for
the differences in others' minds and our
own.

It was a very distressful scene. Nothing
that he could do or say restored calmness
to her, though the first violence of her
agitation presently wore off In vain he
tried to wring from her some explanation
of her altered looks, her nervous terrors ;
asked her what ailed her, and tenderly
upbraided her with not having told him

she was out of health. Ada would own
nothing, say nothing ; and when he rather
pitifully said he had hoped to give her a
pleasant surprise by his unexpected arrival,
she replied with irritation that she hated
such surprises ; he ought to have written
or telegraphed. In fact, Roger, with the
deepest alarm," presently saw that his
presence was doing her no good, but
harm ; it was perfectly evident that he had
better retire, and he decided to do so.
But before going, he said 

'' Now, look here, Ada. Grant me a
very great favour, and I'll not tease you
about anything else. Let Michael Larrg-
troth, or Dr. Rowntree, see you. Rown-
tree, perhaps. He's such a kind, good old
fellow. He would give you something to
strengthen you."

I am not ill," cried Ada ; and she
stamped her foot on the ground, and
clenched her teeth. " I will see none of
your doctors. I hate them, and I'll have

nothing to do with them. You will make
me ill, if you don't let me alone."

Every sign warned Roger that this was
a subject it would be best not to pursue
any further, and he presently left her. He
had no heart to go into the shop again
and speak to Mr. Dixon. Slowly and
dispiritedly he made his way back to the
Red Gables, and found Michael there,
astonished to see him back again so soon,
and looking the questions he felt he would
not ask.

*' I don't know, Michael," said Roger, in
answer to this look. " There's something
awfully wrong. I must see her father tomorrow.
She denies that anything ails
her, but at the same time she goes on in
such a way as no one would who was all
right. It is not the end  I know it is not
the end."

On the following day it seemed as if the
end, so far as Roger was concerned, had
arrived. In the forenoon Mr. Dixon

made his appearance, and asked to see
Roger. Then, slowly and with difficulty,
he unfolded the fact that Ada had summoned
him to her after her lover's departure,
and had told him that she could
never be Roger's wife; that her life was
a misery to her, so long as she was
engaged to him, and that if her father
wished to see her well and happy again,
he was to take this opportunity of telling
Roger so, and of making him understand
that she did not wish to see him again.

The stout, prosperous tradesman looked
pinched and miserable as he told his
sorry tale ; while the young man sat opposite
to him, his face turning very white,
his strong hands shaking, and his mighty
figure trembling all over, like a leaf in the
wind. The sun was shining outside,
though not into the room ; one could see
its glare in the yellow hue of the grass, and
the shadows cast by the trees. The sound
of singing birds came in at the open

window, and also a blast of north-east
wind, cold, dry, cutting as a knife.

*' She does not mean it, Mr. Dixon ; she
does not really mean it ? " he stammered,
fighting for his life.

*' She means it, Roger. I wrestled with
her about it for an hour ; for with expecting
you to be my son for so long, I've got
to look upon you as if you were my son.
I wrestled with her till I saw she was
nigh to fainting, and then I had to stop.
She pulled this off her finger, and told me
to give it you."

He pulled a little pearl ring from his
pocket, and pushed it across the table
towards Roger, without looking at him:
Roger picked it up, and turned it round in
his fingers as if he did not know what it
was  as if the sight of the little jewels
dazed him.

She said she wished to send no unkind
words, for that perhaps she'd never see
you again ; but that you must not come

nigh her, for another scene with you would
kill her, and she wants to live."

'' Let her live then," said Roger, in a
hoarse and laboured voice. " It does not
matter what becomes of me."

Mr. Dixon, sturdy philistine that he
was, wiped his eyes with his handkerchief.


'* Roger," he said, with a solemnity and
strength of conviction which gave dignity
and something like majesty to his commonplace,
outside man, "you have just cause
to look upon my girl with suspicion, and
to fight shy and speak ill of us all. But,
lad, I tell you, we don't know the end f
it all yet. I can tell you, my heart is
heavy. There's a weight on it, as if something
uncommon was coming, or hanging
about in the air somewhere. I can't mind
my business, nor eat my victuals, for thinking
of that girl, that looks like a ghost ;
and why, that's what I want to know 
why ? "

'' I'm afraid," said Roger, in a laboured
voice, but instinctively trying to give comfort
to the man who was older and weaker
than himself, 'that she may have begun
to care for some one else, who perhaps
doesn't respond as she could wish. If soit
is best for her to be free from me."

Choose what it is, it's a heavy trouble
for us all," said Mr. Dixon wearily. " I'm
often afraid that she was brought up with
notions far above her station,  Miss Winter,
and all that ; but somehow, I never
took it to be anything seriously wrong. . . .
You'll not look upon me as an enemy,
Roger, for I've fought for you through
thick and thin ? "

'' An enemy  God forbid ! I know you
have been my friend all through."

'* We are going to send her away," pursued
Mr. Dixon. " She has asked to go
down to my sister in Devonshire, a widow,
who has often wanted to have a visit from
her. She says, if she gets away from all

this (" all what ? " thought Roger, a thick
dread at his heart  " her home, her friends,
her natural life, with all its hopes and
interests ? "), once away, she thinks she'll
be better. So we shall send her. I won't
stay. I've dragged myself here, and I
shall drag myself back again. Can you
shake hands with me, my lad ? "

Roger unhesitatingly gave him his hand,
went with him to the door, and saw him
walk away ; then returned, to try and
understand the meaning of what had befallen
him. He was surprised to find that
after a time, instead of reproaching Ada,
even in thought, he was occupied in trying
to recall any occasions on which he might
have spoken harshly to her, and in mentally
imploring her to forgive him his trespasses,
and in wishing that he had but the chance
to do it in so many words ; while his sense
of the mysterious terror that hung over
her grew greater every moment. He did
not leave Bradstane earlier than he had

intended. A great calm and a great pity-had
settled upon his soul. He found himself
able to speak freely to Michael of
what had happened  to tell him more of
his inner thoughts and feelings than, in all
their long intimacy, he had ever divulged
before. He told Michael what Ada was
going to do, and he said 

"When she comes back, for my sake,
Michael, you will pay a little heed to her,
and let me know how she looks, at any
rate."

'' You may trust me to do it."

It is all quite over between us. I have
a feeling that that is quite certain ; but I
don't feel as if we knew everything yet.
And God forbid that I should judge her
in the dark. A girl doesn't carry on as
she is doing, either from lightness of mind
or hardness of heart."

This was as Michael drove him along
the lanes to Darlington to catch the night
train. Michael said nothing. Friendship

demanded that what Roger required of
him in this matter, he should do, whatever
he might think of the cause of his friend's
distress.

CHAPTER VI.

HOW CRACKPOT WAS SCRATCHED.

They left the dogcart outside the station,
and Michael went in with Roger to see
him off. As he stood beside the carriage
window, waiting for the train to start,
Roger, leaning out of the window, said to
him in a low voice 

'' I haven't forgotten what you said to me,
Michael, though it looks as if I had  what
you said in your letter about a certain
lady."

'' I did not suppose you had forgotten,"
replied Michael, gravely and simply ; *' but
I think you had better do so. Consider
that I wrote it in a fit of momentary weakness
of mind. Indeed, if I could have

borne to write the last part of the letter
over again, I would not have sent the first,
when it came to the point."

"It is safe enough with me ; but I can't
quite see why you should call it weakness.
Look here, Michael, we both know how
that lady is situated, and you say you wish
she had not got twelve hundred a year of
her own. Take my word for it, if she
knew that, she would curse her money.
Don't go to suppose that I have not eyes
in my head, and ears to hear with."

They had clasped hands, and the train
had begun very slowly to move. Roger
went on rapidly  

I hoped at first that you never would
care for her, when I began to see that she
attracted you. Now I believe she is the
woman to make you happy, as you are the
man to do the same thing by her. Go in,
and win, Michael, and never heed what
the black things about her may say. Goodbye,
old friend, and luck go with you."

There was a hard pressure of the two
hands, which then had to be unclasped.
The train gilded out. Michael was left
upon the platform, looking after it. When
it had disappeared, he went outside again,
found his dogcart, gave a coin to the
boy who had held the horse  for he had
brought no servant, wishing to have
Roger to himself on the drive ; and now
he set off on his return journey.

When he drove out of Darlington it
was after eleven o'clock ; there was a
radiant full moon hanging in the sky,
and the whole land was flooded with its
beauty and its brilliance. The roads,
after he had got out of the town, were
solitary and silent, as country roads, late
on a Sunday night, are wont to be. He
had all the beauty, all the glamour of the
night to himself, and it sank into his soul,
and the words which Roger had uttered
resounded in his mind, like a refrain. He
did not drive very fast. He was in no

mood to tear along, but was rather disposed
to taste to the full the cup of
beauty and graciousness that was offered
to him. One by one, he drove through
the chain of exquisite villages which make
that road one of the most beautiful in all
England,  Coniscliffe, Piercebridge, Gain-ford,
and Winston, arrived at which place,
for the sheer pleasure of the further drive,
and the enjoyment of the pure night air,
and the magic of the scene and the hour,
he turned off, instead of pursuing his way
straight, to one side, and took the roundabout
and surpassingly beautiful road
which leads through Dodington, and past
Wycliffe Hall and wood, and its ancient
little church of solemn beauty, and so
across Whorl ton Bridge to Bradstane.
Every inch of the way was beautiful.
And that which lent the greatest charm
to it was the river, which, ever as he
drove, he had near him. Now he lost
it ; again it gleamed suddenly on his sight,

emerging unexpectedly into the open, from
some deep wood, or rushing in a sweeping
curve into view ; now sunk between
marly banks, now making its way 'o'er
solid sheets of marble grey." Grand old
Tees ! thought Michael, paying it a parenthetical
tribute, in the midst of the many
other thoughts which just then crowded
his mind, and made the long drive seem
to him a short one ; where was it to be
matched for beauty and stateliness, and
natural grandeur, and wild, unbounded
variety ? How different here, as it flowed
on steady and strong, from what it was
as it came, little more than a fierce, brawling
mountain stream, tearing over the wild
moors near its source ! It had been his
friend and companion through many a
weary year, as he had gone his rounds,
wide and long as the valley itself. Like
all such friends, united with the deceitful
power of human language, it had
always had the very voice that suited his

mood. In his youth, no longings had
been too high, and no hopes too feverish
for it to encourage. And for ten years,
since he had been a veritable man, it had
been his constant guide and associate. In
spring it rushed joyfully along, singing
a song of encouragement ; in summer
its cool surface and the soothing murmur
of its flow had many a time made tolerable
the burden and heat of the day. He
had heard its autumn roar, and in wilder
moods had ridden races with it ; and he
knew its aspect in winter, gray and sullen,
or even iron-bound almost all its length,
from mouth to source ; in its smoother
expanses covered with skaters, or laden
with blocks of ice, which, when the thaw
wind began to blow, split and parted with
reports like explosions, and then went sailing
in beautiful glistening blocks towards
the sea.

Just now, in this May moonlight, at
the hour which was neither night nor
VOL. III. 47

day  for midnight was past  it fulfilled
its spring vocation ; and as he drove along,
its murmur swelled out into the night,
and held out promises  promises so brave
and heh that he mistrusted them almost.
And yet, a voice in his heart told him,
with an unerring whisper, that he might
believe these promises ; that if he went
and asked Eleanor Askam to confirm their
truth, she would do so. The knowledge
thrilled him ; it was pungent  half-bitter,
half-sweet. It gave him a new sense of
youth, a conquering confidence to which
he had long been a stranger. He rejoiced
in it, and rejoiced greatly all the
while that he shook his head, and said
within himself " impossible," and repeated
that he wished she were not so rich  so
much richer than he was. If anything
should happen  some transitory misfortune,
by which she might for one moment
feel herself quite poor, and believe she
had no resting-place for her head, and

he the next moment might bid that dear
head rest where it should ever be welcome
 on his own heart  ah, Bradstane
town and the cobble-stoned streets, the
Red Gables and reality !

On the following day he heard that Ada
Dixon had gone to stay with her father's
widowed sister, at some remote Devonshire
village. The sister had been housekeeper
to a great family in the neighbourhood ;
had married the butler, and was now living
partly on the fruits of her own savings,
partly on a pension from the said family.

Poor Roer ! " reflected Michael. '' If
the girl were something very wonderful? or
very gifted, or marvellously attractive, one
could forgive such connections. And there's
no harm in poor old Dixon ; but as for the
others  no, they are not suited for him."

The little bit of gossip and talk caused
by this second visit of Ada Dixon to
friends at a distance, following so rapidly
upon her return from a first absence, had

had time to die away, and the middle of
May had arrived, when Michael became
aware that his new neighbour, Miss Askam,
had returned from her sojourn amongst her
friends. The Dower House showed signs
of life ; the windows were filled with pots
of flowering plants, and one or other of the
little Johnsonss began to be frequently seen
on the doorsteps, while the Thorsgarth
landau came round every fine afternoon,
and was driven into the country with Miss
Askam and one or more either of these
little Johnsonss, or their hard-worked
mamma, or Mrs. Parker ; for the young
lady seemed to have no pleasure in solitary
state drives. Sometimes, on his rounds,
Michael met her, and then there was a
bow on his part, and a secret thrill of
delight, and perhaps some of the power
he felt showing in his eyes ; and a gracious
inclination, an irrepressible brightness
overspreading her face, on her side. A
week or ten days passed, by no means

iingenlally, in this way, till the Derby week
arrived.

On the Monday morning Michael was
amazed to receive a note from Eleanor.

My DEAR Mr. Langstroth,

'' I wonder if you would
think it very troublesome to come and
tell me, if by any chance you should hear
anything about my brothers horse, on
Wednesday. I am most anxious to know,
and thought perhaps you might know
people who will have telegrams about the
race before Thursday's paper comes. I
shall not see that till the afternoon, you
know.

'' Sincerely yours,

"E. Assam."

Michael, as she conjectured, had means
of gaining information before Thursday's
London paper made its appearance. He
wrote to the secretary of a certain club at

Darlington, desiring him to telegraph to
him any news of " Crackpot," at as early
a date as possible. He was both astonished
and disturbed to receive a telegram on the
Tuesday night, and its contents were not
too soothing to his feelings. Thinking it
best to get the business over at once, he
went straight to the Dower House, and
was admitted to Miss Askam at once.

She looked astonished to see him, and
he perceived that her brightness was gone.
There was a look of worn and harassed
anxiety, and of nervous restlessness, too,
about her. Her hands trembled, and her
eyes wavered.

'' Miss Askam," he was beginning, but
she Interrupted him.

You have got a telegram. Something
has happened. I knew It. I hand  I
was certain of it. What is It,  because I
know the race is not yet run ? Is anything
the matter with Otho ? "

'' This telegram," he beoan acrain.

Please let me read It. I cannot wait."

He handed it to her silently, and it
fluttered in her hands as she perused it ; 

Crackpot scratched. No end of a
row"

*' I do not know what that means," she
said tremulously. " Scratched  will you
please explain."

" It means," said he reluctantly, 'that
your brother has withdrawn his horse* at
the last moment from the race ; and from
the last part of the telegram, I am afraid
there must be an impression that 
that "

That he has not dealt honourably," she
said, quickly and breathlessly. '' I want to
know a little more, please, Mr. Langstroth.
Is it not usual to withdraw a horse in this
way ? "

'' No. At least, it is a great pity when
it has to be done. It is particularly a great
pity that your brother should have had todo
it the first time a horse of his was

running. Some men do it pretty often ;
and then, you know, they get a bad name,
and are not considered "

Honourable. I understand. But will
he have done it without any reason ? Can
you say, just at the last, ' I have changed
my mind, and my horse shall not run ? ' "

'' Most likely it is given out that Crackpot
is ill, and unfit to run. Nay, it maybe
that he is so. Do not distress yourself
about it," he added eagerly. " I will
find out all that I can about it, and let you
know. Everything will be uncertain now,
of course."

She was still standing by the table, looking
at him with haggard eyes, and as he
spoke thus, she shook her head.

No, no ! " said she. '' Just once, while
I was in London, I happened to be at a
regatta, with my friends, and Otho was
there, too. And I saw a disagreeable-looking
man come up to him, who did not
know I had anything to do with him.

They talked together for a Httle while, and
I did not hear what they said, till suddenly
the man said, ' But mind you, Askam, none
of your tricks. You are a slippery customer
at the best.' I felt so indignant
that I turned round quite angrily ; and then
he saw that I knew Otho, and they laughed,
and moved a little to one side."

I don't see that that incident has any
necessary connection with this," said he
quietly. " You can do nothing, you know.
Miss Askam. Do not distress yourself
needlessly. To do that is to render yourself
powerless when any real emergency
arises." 

"Yes, I know," said she, and paused.
He looked at her, and saw that she looked
worn and anxious.

Is there anything else I could do for
you ? " he began. '* Because 1 should be
so Mad "

No, thank you, nothing, except to
promise that should you hear anything

more about the thing, you will let me
know."

'' That I certainly will," said he, and
rose to take his leave. " You still remain
amongst us, in Bradstane," he observed
gravely, but kindly, as he held out his
hand.

Yes," said Eleanor, with a quick flush.
'' I do not wish to go away. I  I intend
to stay here."

Always ? "

I think  always." She spoke steadily,
but did not look at him.

'' I am very glad to hear that," replied
Michael quietly. " Now I know you are
strong when you choose to be so. Will
you promise not to fret foolishly over the
thing  not to brood and mope over it ;
or else I shall be sorry I complied with
your request ? "

I promise to behave as well as in me
lies," said Eleanor, smiling.

** Then, good evening."

He went away thoughtful. He knew
perfectly well that she would have to hear
more disagreeable things about Otho before
very long, but he had succeeded in
lulling her fears for the present, at any
rate.

CHAPTER VII.

Careless CONTENTE."

The withdrawal of Crackpot from the
running, on the very day before the race,
made a great sensation in the world of the
turf. The affair was looked upon with
suspicion, especially in connection with
Otho Askam's known character for slipperiness
 a character which stuck to him,
although no one could exactly say how he
had first got it. But the sensation was
very much confined to the circles immediately
connected with the event. Otho
had managed with sufficient skill to avoid
having anything tangible brought up
against him. The rumours that were

current did not penetrate to his sister's
ears. The things that were written about
the circumstance were published in sporting
or '' society " papers, which she never
saw, and in their own peculiar jargon.
Michael, in his rounds, heard it all freely
discussed, but was careful never to let her
know what he heard. He wished her to
forget it, and presently it seemed as if she
did. At her age, and with her temperament,
the heart, though it is peculiarly
sensible to sorrow, and feels it with a
keenness resembling resentment, is also
very open to joy ; and there were joyful
influences at work in her life that summer.*
Michael did not even tell her of the
rumours he had heard, that Otho had lost
a great deal of money by withdrawing
Crackpot from the race ; for after all, they
were rumours, and not substantiated facts,
though Michael believed them to be true
enough. Otho had what Michael considered
the good taste not to come near

Thorsgarth after his escapade, and for a
season the land had rest from him and his
presence.

It has been said that there were joyful
influences at work in the life of Eleanor
this summer ; and that was true. Her
nature loved sunshine, and just now it
had it in plenty, both moral and material.
From May  after the bad news about
Otho  till August, sunlight prevailed.
There was a long, hot, glorious summer,
such as is not often vouchsafed to us nowadays.
Hitherto she had known Brad-stane
literally only under its winter aspect.
These months offered a variety of view
and climate ; and she, keenly and intensely
sensitive to such influences, rejoiced with the
rejoicing summer. Her life at the Dower
House just then was a far from unpleasant
one. She had gathered round her a little
circle of friends, both young and old, and
they gave freshness and variety to her
life, as she helped to bring charm and

poetry into theirs. She began for the first
time really to understand what pleasure
money can give  the possession of it, that
is, and the power which that possession
confers of affording pleasure and relief to
others. She helped to make the summer
golden to others beside herself. Amongst
the pleasures of that season, there were
none she enjoyed more than the out-of-door
life which the unusual fineness and
dryness of the summer rendered possible.
There were day-long excursions, begun
early in the morning, and only ended when
the dew and the night were falling together
 excursions into the deep woods,
over the glorious moors, or beside the
lovely streams which water and adorn that
wild and beautiful tract of Borderland,
called Teesdale. Sometimes she and her
friends, the little Johnsonss, would set off
alone, swarming (the children) in and out
of a pony chaise which never seemed too
small, however many got into it; and which

was yet never too large, even when there
were not more than two or three to occupy
it. As often as not the old doctor would
be their guide and chaperon ; and under
his direction they explored the country for
miles around. It was new to Eleanor ;
it was mostly new to her young companions,
who had never before had a fairy
with a pony chaise to take them about.
This was very pleasant, with the lunches
eaten " by shallow rivers," or under leafy
trees ; when the children splashed and
waded to their heart's content, and the
days, long though they were, never seemed
long enough.

But there were also other and larger
affairs, more important in every sense of
the word,  proper picnics, at which several
parties joined,  the Johnsonss, Dr. Rown-
tree and his sister, Mrs. Parker, Eleanor ;
and on one or two occasions, even Michael
had managed to snatch a day and join them,
leaving his work to his assistant. On one

of these days when he was present, they
explored Deepdale ; on another they
managed to dumb " Catcastle Crag." On
both of these occasions it was noticed that
Michael's behaviour was marked by an
unaccountable levity, and Miss Askam's
by a kind of laughing apprehension. She,
too, seemed to see jokes where no one else
could detect them. Michael, indeed, went
so far as to tell the children that this was
not the first time that Miss Askam had
been to Catcastle, and having by means
of sundry mysterious hints roused their
curiosity to fever pitch, and set them to
attack her with every kind of question
they could think of, he fell into the rear,
and conversed with Mrs. Parker, leaving
Eleanor to baffle them as best she could.

They happened to be alone for a few
moments on the occasion of the Deepdale
expedition, and he seized the opportunity
to say 

*' I notice that you still retain that in-vol.

III. 48

genius youth, William, for your special
body-servant ; I suppose it is his complete
incapacity which recommends him to you ?
You do not like to dismiss him, because
you are quite sure no one else would take
him on ; and you think it is better that he
should have the semblance of an occupation
than that you should have to support
him by charity."

You wrong poor William, Mr. Lang-troth.
He is a very good servant, and
a most faithful creature." "

*' So I should fancy. He knows the
country almost as well as his mistress
does, and has such wonderful presence
of mind, as to make him invaluable in any
emergency."

'' Well, I think he has the presence of
mind, at any rate, to know when help
was nigh."

"Say, rather, the power of lung to invoke
that help when it was afar off. You
don't know what a long way I rode

back, summoned by that unearthly yell of
his."

Eleanor laughed. " Poor William ! "
she said.

Ah, I do admire William. Do you
see, he knows we are talking about him,
and the children are beginning to be suspicious
too. I believe William fears weare
going to ask him to act as guide to
some place. Would you mind my catechizing
him a little on the geography of
the district ? It would keep him up to the
mark, you know, and would be such a
useful thing for the children as well."

Please don't, Mr. Langstroth. You will
make me look ridiculous before them all."

*' If I have seen you looking ridiculous,
and if William has seen you looking
ridiculous," said Michael, " as we certainly
did, you know, on a never-to-be-forgotten
occasion, what can it matter if a set of
children and their mother see the same
thing ? "

Oh, nothing, perhaps," was the sweet
reply. " But are you sure you did not
look a little ridiculous too ? And if Effie
once had her confidence in your infallibility
shaken "

That is true. Like the villains in
novels, you have a power over me, through
the innocent ones whom I love. I will
keep silence this time, but take care how
you provoke me too far."

Do not be so childish."

This was very frivolous nonsense, and
they enjoyed it, as they enjoyed the hot
summer sun, the cool streams, the shady
woods, and even the fun they had in combating
the swarms of wasps which usually
followed them in these expeditions, and
entirely frustrated their efforts to sit down,
and, as Effie plaintively said, '' eat a meal
in peace."

Once, deeper feelings were touched, and
this was on a day when they had penetrated
further than ever before ; and on

this occasion, too, Michael was with them.
Setting off very early, they drove in the
morning coolness to ,
and thence onwards to High Force,
where they rested and lunched ; after which
they drove onwards to some little huts
at the edge of the moor, where path
ended, and wilderness began ; when they
got out, and walked for a mile and a
half to the wild spot where Tees comes
first winding, sluggish and sinuous, over
the moor top, in what is called the Weel,
and then suddenly precipitates himself
madly over " Caldron Snout," tearing down
an incline of two hundred feet to the lower
level, where he pursues a brawling way
towards High Force, his next descent.

This is a very wild and desolate spot,
and requires intrepid walking to get to it ;
plunging through the thymy moor, rough,
pathless, and uneven, without guide, save
for rough wooden posts like crosses,
planted at intervals of several hundred

yards, to show the directed way to the
cataract. But so few persons visit Caldron
Snout, so few tourists or pincers care to
be at the trouble of penetrating to it, that
no road has got beaten out. Nature
seems to sit enthroned in desecrated
queenliness in the fastnesses around the
cataract.

It was a day that Michael and Eleanor
never forgot. The children, literally frantic
with the novelty and the wildness of the
thing, and with the exhilarating moorland
air, tore about in all directions  over
heather and thyme, bluebells and boulders.
Now came a scream of joy, and a mad rush
to Michael or the doctor to ask the name
of some hitherto unknown plant or flower
as the delicate autumn gentian, or, on
some grassy banks, the poetical looking
fragile '' grass of Parnassus." Anon, wonder,
quite awed and hushed, and treading
on tiptoe to peep into a nest concealed
beneath the grass, and containing five dirty-white

eggs, with wine-coloured splashes
on them. Then on again, to fresh fields
and pastures new, till one wild whoop announced
the discovery, in its steep hidden
gorge, of the waterfall itself.

The elders walked more sedately, rejoicing
with joy more cultivated, if not
more intense, in the larger grandness of
great, sweeping lonely fells, of miles of
purple heather ; and in the abstract impressiveness
of such a solitary torrent as
Caldron Snout.

It was as they were wending back towards
their vehicles, in the evening, that
Michael and Eleanor found themselves
alone. The children were scattered, making
the most of what time remained to
them, for the collection of interesting
natural objects. Mrs. Johnson, with an
eye to her rockery at home, had stopped
in front of a patch of fine bog-plants, and
had made the doctor go on his knees,
armed with an old table knife. She was

Standing over him, directing him to the
finest plunder, perfectly deaf to his assurances
that the fine purple pinguicula which
she coveted could find lovely flies here
for its sustenance, but that its poor carnivorous
leaves would most likely shrivel
up and die in the dark corner of her
garden, devoted to the cultivation of ferns
and houseless.

At some distance from these two Michael
and Eleanor stood side by side, facing
Mickle Fell, and gazing at the noble sight
unfolded for their delight. Many a time
Eleanor had seen this grand old mountain
in the distance, overtopping his comrades,
always ; but now he rose straight before
them, apparently not a mile away. They
were both struck by what they saw. The
great fell, who seemed to spring aloft from
the smaller ones which clustered about him,
formed a centre and a focus to the picture,
rising in a blunt, massive kind of point.
His huge and grim sides were clothed ina

violet veil of summer haze and heat, like
a garment such as no earthly hands ever
fashioned. This was beautiful ; but it was
not all. The sun stood, at the moment
when it seemed to rest exactly on the midmost
point of his summit, a blazing golden
ball, and rays streamed away from it on
every side, so that Mickle Fell seemed
veritably to wear a crown of glory, surpassing
all the crowns and all the jewels
of all the kings in the whole world. Just
at the moment, the stillness was utterly
unbroken. Not even the murmur of the
torrent reached them, nor the voices of
the children '' playing in the light of the
setting sun." Earth seemed to hold her
breath while one of her great hills received
the crown and the benediction of the
closing day. No hum of booming bee,
no voice even of any bird, broke the dead
silence ; nor did these two venture to disturb
it, but gazed and worshipped, and felt
that even if they lived to be very old, they

would not often see the heavens declare
the glory of God so sublimely as at this
moment.

And it was but for a moment; such
scenes seldom last longer. Suddenly
things seemed to change ; the glory became
dimmed ; sounds became audible ; the
spell was loosed ; and with one deep sigh
both their hearts confessed it, as their
eyes met.

Perhaps they both understood at that
moment, though all that Michael said, was,
*' I am very glad that we have seen that 
together."

''So am I," she rejoined softly.
 Then suddenly, almost at their feet,
broke forth a gossipy, importunate, '' Brek-
kek-kek ! " and behind them children's
voices shouted. They smiled. The awe
and the solemnity had gone, but the joy
remained and was abiding. It did not die
away, even after the sun had set and the
golden rays were quenched in night. It

made itself felt all through the long drive
home through the darkling lanes, and it
breathed out of the delicious scent of the
firewood, beneath which part of their road
lay. It looked out of the eyes of both,
as they clasped hands and parted after it
was all over.

That was the last of some cloudlessly
happy days. It was, in reality, the first
day of Michael's summer holiday, and he
knew it would be the best. On the following
morning he set off to Leeds, where
that year the British Medical Association
had its annual meeting ; after which, he
and Roger were going to take a short
country tour together.

One evening, in August, soon after
Michael had gone, Eleanor was startled
to see Otho walk into her drawing-room,
looking ill and haggard. He threw himself
into a chair, gave a long kind of sigh, and
asked her how she did.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SHADOW.

It seemed as if, when Otho came in, joy
went out. Eleanor, as she viewed his
sinister figure, and saw his haggard countenance,
felt a chill steal over her in the
midst of the August warmth. It was like
the first breath of winter, sent as a warning
when autumn days are mild and life
delicious.

You have come back at last, Otho.
Are you going to stay at Thorsgarth ? "

"Just for two or three days. IVe been
there and put up my traps, and I meant to
stay there, but it is such a dismal hole. It
makes me creep all over. I could not

Stand it, so I thought I would look in
upon you."

'' I am glad you did," she said, wondering
a little why he had chosen rather to
visit her than Magdalen. But she did not
ask, and he did not mention the subject.
He did not stay very long. She asked
him if he came from London, and he said
yes. She did not ask him about Gilbert.
She had nearly forgotten him. The
strength of the love she felt for Michael
had effaced almost the recollection of the
uncomfortable days she had passed during
Gilbert's Christmas visit, and the fears she
had felt with regard to him.

I thought you would be coming
before," she said, '' for the shooting.
People are saying it is something unheard
of for you to be without a party at Thorns
just now."

'' People may mind their own business.
It doesn't suit me to have a party. I can't
afford."

Are you poor, Otho ? Have you been
losing money ? "

*' What a question to ask ! If you inquired
whether I'd got any money left to
lose, it would be more to the point."

I am very sorry to hear it. Are you
going already ? " For he had risen.

Yes, I arranged with a fellow to meet
me at home at eight, and it's nearly that
now."

I shall see you tomorrow ? "

I shall be busy in the day, but at
night  yes, I'll come and dine with you,
Eleanor. What time ? "

Seven, Otho ; but come as soon as you
like, and I'll invite Magdalen to spend the
evening too."

'magdalen!" He looked startled, ashe
had done on a former occasion, and not
too well pleased. Then he said, with an
attempt at indifference 

''Oh, all right. That will be the best
way. "

He departed, and as it was not too late,
Eleanor sent a note by that night's post,
telling Miss Wynter that Otho was over,
and would dine with her the following
evening. Would she (Magdalen) join
them and spend the evening ?

Magdalen sent a man the next day
with her acceptance of the invitation, and
Eleanor awaited her two guests with the
feelings of one who is heroically going
through a most disagreeable duty.

It was the end of August, and on quiet,
cloudy days it was twilight by seven
o'clock. Just before that hour Eleanor
had occasion to go into one of the front
rooms ;  her dining and drawing-rooms
were at the back, looking upon a pleasant
garden and orchard, and the front rooms
were small ones, separated from these
others by folding doors.

She got what she wanted, and then
paused for a moment beside the window,
looking out upon the street, which was

grey with the dusk, and the houses over
the way did not show very clearly. No
one was about except, as Eleanor noticed,
a woman, whom she had seen earlier in the
afternoon, in another part of the town ; an
itinerant singer, who had been going from
door to door, singing ballads and collecting
money. Eleanor had noticed her, and
had been struck with the decency of her
appearance, and the unusual quietness and
modesty of her look. She had told her
servants, if the young woman came to her
house, to take her into the kitchen, and
give her a meal. This had been done,
and the girl now seemed not to intend to
sing any more. She had been going about
bareheaded ; now she had put on a small
straw bonnet, and placed a woollen shawl
about her shoulders. She stood near the
doorsteps, and looked this way and that, as
if not certain in which direction to go.
The window was open, and Eleanor was
about to throw it still higher up, and suggest

to the young woman where she might
find a lodging for the night, when quick
steps approached from that side of her own
house at which she stood. Then a man's
figure, in a Hight summer overcoat and a
round hat, appeared ; it was Otho, and he
had one foot on the doorstep, when the
young woman turned, and began rather
timidly 

"If you please, sir "

*' Good God ! what do you mean ! " he
exclaimed in a voice in which both fear
and anger struggled. " Have you no
more "

Sir ! " exclaimed the young woman,
facing him fully, and In evident astonishment,
" I was not going to beg  I "

Confound you ! " burst from Otho's
lips, and his voice trembled, with what
emotion Eleanor could not guess. " You
made me think  what do you want, loafing
about here ? "

'* I am doing no such thing as loafing,"

VOL. HI. 49

said the young woman in high dudgeon.
*' I am a respectable woman, and I was
going to ask you a civil question  that's
all. But ril go further on, now."

She turned away, indignation quivering
in her every movement. Otho stood still
a moment, Eleanor noticed, as she breathlessly
watched and listened, with his hand
resting against the door pillar, as if to
support himself. And she saw that he
pulled out his handkerchief and wiped his
brow ; and she heard something muttered
between his teeth, and then the words,
*' cursed hole like this ! " Then he came
into the house, for the door opened from
the outside, and she mechanically went
out to meet him, disturbed more than she
would have cared to own. For whom,
for what had he mistaken the young
woman, that he should show such alarm
and such fear ?

He was standing in the hall, having laid
his hat upon the table, and was pulling off

his overcoat. His face was quite white,
or rather, gray, and his eyes looked wild
and startled.

'' Halloa 1" said he, evidently with an
effort  at least, It was evident to her now
that she knew what had gone before.
Hove are you ? Has Magdalen come ? "

'' No. I am expecting her every
minute," she replied. '' Ah, there are the
carriage wheels. She Is here now."

Otho was now master of himself again.
He waited in the hall till Magdalen had
come in, and received her, looking into her
eyes with a sort of eagerness, and kissing
her as he looked at her.

The evening proved, in a way, less
depressing than Eleanor had expected,
Magdalen was unusually sweet and
gracious ; Otho more genial and expansive
than his sister had ever seen him.
Magdalen openly and unreservedly put
questions to him about his affairs and
intentions, which Eleanor would never

have dreamed of asking. He was not
very explicit as to his business, but said
it was business that brought him to Thorns
adding with candour that nothing
else would induce him to set foot in the
place, for he had got a horror of it. From
some hints that he let fall, the two young
women gathered that his stables and stud
were to come to the hammer  when, he
did not say. Also, that he was at present
somewhat straitened for any considerable
sum of money. But he did not hint at
any wish to borrow money, or receive
assistance, only saying that Gilbert would
see him safe through present difficulties,
and that the Friarsdale stables would bring
in " a pot of money."

I'm going to Friarsdale tomorrow," he
added, *' and back here the same night.
The day after, I'm off again."

Are you ? Where ? "

London first. Then Paris, I expect.
I've got some business there," he condescended

to Inform them, '' In connection
with the Grand Piix next spring.

*' Racing again ! " said Magdalen. '' But
you've got no horse In It."

Yes, but I have. I've Crackpot again."

*' Again I " repeated Miss Wynter, with
emphasis and meaning.

*' Oh, it's all straight this time. You
need not be sneering, Mag ; and Eleanor
need not turn up her eyes In that lackadaisical
fashion. When Crackpot has won
the Grand Prix, as I intend him to, I shall
sell him for  well, a good lot of money.
Then I shall be fairly on my legs again.
Thorsgarth may stay as It is, yet awhile,
and the timber can remain In the woods."

'' I should hope so ! " exclaimed Eleanor,
in a voice of alarm.

And if you'd only marry me now,
Magdalen, out of hand, you should have
the purse-strings, and keep me In order.
Come, let It be a bargain ! "

Magdalen's eyes glittered. It was a

bargain she would have clinched that
moment if she could.

You know it is utterly impossible,
Otho, now. But if you'll come home
again before Christmas  well before
Christmas, you know, I might be able to
settle things'

Oh, do promise, Otho V Eleanor urged
him eagerly. " If only you and Magdalen
could get married at the-end of this year
or the beginning of next  why, you might
go abroad ; and when you had got this
money that you speak of, you might live
abroad.'

Her heart leaped up at the idea that
Magdalen, if she once had him in hand,
and was as he said mistress of the purse-strings,
might have a strong influence over
him, and that, having broken from his sporting
associates, both here and in London,
something different  something a little
better, might surely be made of him.

"If you would marry him, Magdalen,"

she went on, '' I would spend the rest of
the winter myself with Miss Strangforth,
if she would have me ; or you could find
her another niece to come and live with
her."

'' I would do my best," Magdalen said,
*' if he'll promise to come home before
Christmas."

Otho h'md and hard, and said at last, he
could not promise more than she did. He
would do his best too.

"It would be very nice," Magdalen said
reflectively. '' Bradstane zs dull to the
carnally minded. People given up to good
works and acts of mercy, like Miss Askam,
may find it bearable. I think it is awful.
And there is hardly any one left in it now.
All my old friends are gone. You away,
Otho ; Gilbert away ; Roger Camm gone."

Camm lives in Leeds now, doesn't he ? "
asked Otho ; and there was something in
his voice as he spoke  an inflexion, a
shade, which caused Eleanor to glance at

him quickly. But he looked as usual,
except that he was still haggard and worn-looking,
and appeared indifferent about the
answer.

*' Yes," said his sister. ''He has a very
good post there."

What has become of that little girl he
was going to marry ? " asked Otho ; and
Magdalen gave a little laugh, saying 

*' Well, that is good, I must say. After
the way you behaved to her "

*what?" stammered Otho, and there
was the same look on his face that Eleanor
had seen there as he stood In the hall just
before Magdalen's arrival.

** He pretends not to know," said Magdalen
mockingly. " It is not a hundred
years since there was a concert in the
Bradstane schoolroom, sir."

And she laughed her measured, cold
laugh.

Oh, bah ! "

Ada Dixon was very much out of health,

and was sent away Into Devonshire into a
warmer climate," said Eleanor gravely.
** She has been away all the summer, and
has not yet returned."

"Ah!" said Otho, stifling a yawn. ''I
used to see her in former days, going up
and down the village, and going to see
you, Mag "

** Yes. You put a stop to that by your
behaviour that night. After that it was
impossible for me to have anything more
to do with her."

He laughed.

'' I never saw anything of her this time,
so I thought she might have got married
to some one, and cleared out."

Neither his sister nor Magdalen saw
how, as he spoke, he looked sideways at
them. Magdalen was opening and shut-tenor
her fan. Eleanor had some trifle of
fancy work in her hands.

He did not stay much longer, but had
some talk with Magdalen at the door

before he went away. He did not wait
till Miss Strong-forth's carriage came, nor
offer, as on a former occasion, to see her
home. Magdalen returned to Eleanor
when the door had closed behind Otho.

'' He Is really exasperating. He will
not give me his address now ; says he Is so
uncertain : I must write through Gilbert, as
usual. I declare he grows more and more
mysterious. One might almost think he
had some reason for wishing to conceal his
whereabouts," Magdalen went on reflectively.
" Suppose one wanted to get at
him suddenly. In any emergency, and
everything had to be done through
Gilbert. It might be most awkward."

She spoke with entire tranquility of mien
and voice, and stood before the looking-glass
over the mantelpiece, arranging the
flowers In her corsage, with drooped eyelids
and leisurely fingers. It was evidently
a purely Imaginary picture that she drew.
But Eleanor looked up sharply, remembering

what she had witnessed that very
evening. Magdalen, however, was no
person to whom she could disclose her
vague and shadowy fears. There was
nothing for it but silence. She gave a
troubled sigh.

CHAPTER IX.

THE RETURN.

With Otho's absence and silence, the uneasiness
and the fears which he seemed to
bring with him, Hke so many invisible but
potent attendants, gradually died away and
were lulled into serenity. The great house
was closed. The Thorsgarth shooting was
let, so Eleanor heard. She never went
near the place, and heard nothing of it all.
Her own life was sweet to her just now,
and full of hope. The most beautiful
season of the year floated by like an
ideal, a dream of peace and of calm, yet
ample life.

It would be almost impossible to imagine

anything more beautiful than the aspect of
Teesdale  especially of that portion of
Teesdale  In the months of September
and October  when they are fine and
seasonable, that is, and bring such skies,
such winds, and such suns as are due, in
these two most gorgeous months of the
year.

In this particular season they were all
that could be desired, and our lovers  for
lovers they were, though no explicit word
of love had ever passed between them
enjoyed their glory to their heart's
content. Eleanor was satisfied that
Michael did not speak to her ; the spell
of the present time was so delicious that
she would not have had it broken.
She had forgotten outside troubles and
difficulties ; she only felt that all was welland
that a happiness awaited her in the
future, so great that she could well afford
to wait for it.

September sighed Itself out in golden

glory, leaving a luxury of ripening tints
on every tree, filling the tangled hedges
with many-coloured flames of dying weeds ;
for, as every one knows who lives in the
country, the smaller plants that grow in
the ditches and near to the ground  the
wild geranium, the smaller hemlock, or
that plant which is akin to it, the rosebushes,
the hawthorn, and wild guelder
rose  these are the things that " turn "
first, these the objects on which autumn
first places her crimson finger ; and then,
when she has embellished the hedges, and
is pleased with the result of her handiwork,
she becomes bolder, mounts higher,
attacks the trees  the oak and the beech
first, the sycamore and the ash following
in their turn. Then it is that the river
gains his stronger voice, and rushes along,
ever more tumultuously. Then it is that
o* nights the air is keen, and that at that
hour which has said good-bye to afternoon,
and Is not yet evening, there is a strange

metallic, lambent light in the sky, a light
which seems also almost to crackle and
sparkle in the very atmosphere, a magic,
unearthly light, which has its charms for
those who love to study nature in her more
obscure phases.

It was on a glorious crisp afternoon, a
little beyond the middle of October, that
Eleanor returned to the Dower House,
after driving about a bevy of little John-sons
the whole afternoon. She dressed
herself then, and went to dine and spend
the evening at the old doctor's house.
After dinner Michael came in. He
seemed lately to have enjoyed an unusual
quantity of leisure in the evening hours.
The talk turned to books ; amongst other
books to a book of poetry, some passage
in which was disputed. Eleanor said that
she had the book, and would go across to
her house and fetch it. Upon this Michael
announced that he should convey her
across the square, and had gone as far as

the door of the doctor's house with her,
when his old friend, who was in his Library,
called to him, hearing his step.

'' Go to him," said Eleanor. '' I will
fetch the book, and return to you." And
she walked quickly across the square to
her own door.

Arrived there, she found a woman's
figure standing, in an uncertain attitude,
near it. Something  a nameless chill, an
unspeakable dread, took possession of her.
She did not speak, but paused, looking at
the figure, her mind disturbed with vague
recollections of Otho's last visit, and of the
disagreeable dream she had had months
ago, concerning him.

Miss Askam ! " said the loiterer, in an
uncertain voice.

*' Yes ; who is it ? "

'rit is I  Ada. I wanted to speak to
you.

*' Come in with me, then," she replied,
but felt all the time that she was inviting

some great terror and woe to enter her
house.

She opened the . door, and led Ada into
the drawing-room, turned up the Hight, and
looked at her ; and as she looked, the
words were frozen upon her lips at the
aspect of the figure before her. Had not
the voice said, '' It is I  Ada," she would
scarcely have recognized this countenance.
Ada wore a large, thick, woollen shawl,
falling loosely about her ; and a small hat,
from under which showed a face which
had aged by twenty years, and which was
not only aged, but seamed, furrowed, worn
with lines of what must have been mortal
anguish, seeing that every one of them
had been stamped in less than five short
months. The pretty, delicate, meaningless
face was clean gone : in its stead
there was a mask, betraying a mind devoured
by misery ; eyes which looked at
once hard and frightened, hunted and yet
defiant  the eyes of an animal at bay ; a
VOL. III. 50

countenance to fill the most indifferent
beholder with horror.

Struck literally speechless, Eleanor stood,
her hand on the table, and stared at the
figure with wide open eyes, while she felt
cold and terror seize every limb. What
did this apparition want with her or hers ?
A sickly dread, a kind of dim first
suspicion of the meaning of it all crept
into her heart.

Miss Askam," said this spectre of Ada
Dixon, in a low and husky voice, '* I'm in
trouble."

'' Yes," almost gasped the other.

I'm come to you, since it was no
use writing to your brother. Where is
he ? "

The tongue of Eleanor at first clave to
the roof of her mouth ; at last, in a hoarse
voice, she asked 

"What have you to do with my brother'*

With a swift motion, Ada unfastened
the pin at her throat ; her shawl slid from

her shoulders to the ground, and she confronted
Eleanor.

Trembling overpowered the latter.
Speech was at first denied her. She could
stand no more, but crouched upon a chair,
and gasped out 

Oh, horrible, horrible ! "

Suddenly a wild gleam of hope crossed
her mind. Why was she assuming the
very worst to have happened ? By what
right did she condemn not only Otho, but
Ada ? She sprang up again, went close
to the girl, and almost whispered  

Did he not marry you ? "

'' Marry me ! " repeated Ada, in a fearful
voice of bitterness, scorn, and despair.
Nay, he only swore he would, again and
again."

And  and " she shivered still.

** And when was this ? "

It was in March," replied Ada, with
stony composure. " When I was staying
in Wensleydale, and he was in Friarsdale,

and he met me every day, and said he'd
never cared for anybody else. I've written
to him  a hundred letters. He has never
answered one. I thought he was at home
now ; I heard so. I came to tell him he
must  to shame him, If I couldn't persuade
him ; and now . . . he's not here. No
one knows . . . where he Is."

With an hysterical sob she sank together
In the corner of a couch.

"In March," Eleanor was repeating to
herself, with mechanical calm, and clenching
her hands, to keep herself still.
March  and this Is October. There Is
yet time."

That was all she could think of at the
moment. There was no time, no possibility
for anything else. Her brain felt
wound up to this emergency, and to
nothing more. She walked up to Ada,
and touched her.

'' Your parents  what do they know ? "

*' Nothing' said Ada, In a dull, colourless

monotone. " Mother Is away, or I
dare not have come home. Father is
away for the night. He'll be back tomorrow
: he will find out . he will
turn me out of doors. Oh, Miss Askam,
save me, save me, save me ! "

*' Hush ! " said Eleanor quietly. '' Let
me think. Some one must have known 
the people you were staying with  your
aunt ? "

*' She would keep me no longer. I put
her off by telling her that he was coming
down there to marry me  that he'd sent
me there to wait for him. I said It all
depended on her keeping silence ; that
was why she let me stay so long."

'eat what time will your father be
back ? "

At eleven tomorrow morning, they
said."

You will go home now, and stay there
all night. At nine o'clock tomorrow
morning come to me. I shall have had

time to make arrangements then. I will
see your father. I do not think he will
I turn you out of doors. If he does,
you shall come here. I will send for 
my brother. I think I can make him
come. I do not wish to seem harsh
to you, but you must go home now,
that I may have time to arrange things.
You will go to your room at once, when
you get home. You understand  you
can say you are tired. Try not to be
frightened," she added, bending over Ada,
who was crouched in an attitude of blank
despair; 'because I can shelter you, and
I will do so, as God is above us. I
promise you this. Now go."

Slowly Ada rose. Eleanor felt afraid
lest she should break down before she
had left the house. But she did not.
She submitted to have her shawl pinned
on again, and with the same look of utter,
vacant despair, walked away.

'' Either it will turn her brain or kill

her," Eleanor felt, as the girl departed,
and she sat down at the table, and rested
her head on her hands, and tried to put
away the recollection of the awful figure
she had seen, and to reflect upon what
must be done. But she scarcely had sufficient
power yet, over her emotion, to be
able to reflect. She could only remember,
and shudder, and feel horrified, while all
kinds of wild speculations darted through
her mind, as to the effect the event would
have upon this person, and that person ;
and, above all, she wondered how it was
that it had never for one moment occurred
to any of them that when Ada was* in
Wensleydale, and Otho in Friarsdale, they
might easily have met. In fact, she could
think of nothing but of the thing itself,
and the crushing, the overwhelming horror
of it, except that every now and then
a thought crossed her mind that something
must be done at once, and that
there was no one but herself to do it;

which thought reduced her to complete
powerlessness.

While she sat In this chaos of thought
and emotion she heard a knock at the
door. She said nothing ; she had forgotten
all about the little things that one
remembers at ordinary times, and after
a moment, while she still sat, unheeding,
It was gently opened, and Michael Lang-troth
looked In.

I have been sent to fetch you," he had
begun, and then he came to a dead stop,
as he saw and comprehended her strange
attitude ; and when, at his voice, she raised
her head and looked at him, he beheld
her face, and knew that since she had
quitted them, a quarter of an hour ago,
something terrible had happened to her.
And he knew that moment  he did not
in so many words state it to himself, but
he knew It  that It was to him she would
appeal for help. He was glad of that,
but he was sorry that he had let the days

go by In a dream, and had not given her
the right to come to him, without thought
and without question.

Eleanor, as she looked at him, felt at
first a little bewildered. So overwhelmed
was she with what had passed, that it
was a moment or two before she actually
realized who he was.

I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills,"
says the Psalmist, " from whence cometh
my help." And, in a certain degree, it was
so with her. A voice supreme and unerring
spoke to her ; all her nature, every
fibre seemed to bow to an overwhelming
intuition which directed her towards the
man who stood before her, looking so
earnestly down upon her. She loved him,
and that with a love which had grown
into a great passion, and an absorbing
one. But it was something different  
something deeper and higher than even
this great love which impelled her action
now ;  instinct, some might call it, and

Others say that she had naturally a gift
for reading character correctly, and for
discerning which persons were, and which
were not to be relied upon. She herself
would have said that God inspired her.
She sat motionless for a moment, bending
to this inner voice which spoke to her,
acknowledging what her belief told her
was the providential arrival of the one
person whom she would most implicitly
trust  and fighting down the unwillingness
 natural and good in itself, but which
she felt it was useless to stand upon now
to speak openly of such things as had
happened, to a man who was neither her
husband, her father, nor her brother.
And then, her resolution taken, or rather,
that importunate inner voice obeyed, she
got up, and leaning over the table towards
him said 

I want to know if you will help me ina
very great trouble ? "

'' With every power that I have, I will

help you," he replied unhesitatingly, and
waited to hear what it was that he had
to do.

'' Since I came in I have heard of a
thing that has happened. I hardly know
how to tell you of it. It makes me feel
as if I had been laughing and amusing
myself in some room, underneath which
another person was being tortured to
death."

Her lips were parched ; her eyes
dilated.

''If I did not trust you entirely!' she
said, as if she appealed to him, '' I could
not tell you." *

For a moment she was silent, while
Michael waited, and then, turning to him
again, told him unfalteringly of the discovery
she had made, and repeated, word
for word, the conversation between herself
and Ada. Michael listened in perfect
silence ; it was, he felt, the only way in
which to hear such a tale.

I have sent her home'' Eleanor said
at last, " that I might try to think. She
is safe for to-night, since she says her
mother is away, and her father will not
return before eleven tomorrow. I have
told her to come here early  at nine
tomorrow morning. I thought I would
keep her here till her parents knew.
I think her father has a heart, but I cannot
endure that woman, her mother. I
feel that she would rail at her  not because
she had done wrong, but because she had
failed in getting married to Otho."

He nodded.

Do you think I have done right ? "

'' Perfectly right. There was nothing
else to be done. Do you know where 
he is ? "

He spoke as if he found a difficulty in
finding a term by which to speak of Otho.

"No, I do not ; but your  Mr. Langstroth
knows all about him. He gave me his
address at Christmas, and I have kept it.

It is through him we shall have to send.
. . It is now clear to me why Otho
would not give his address to Magdalen."

I see. The thing is, suppose he does
not choose to answer the summons  your
brother, I mean. You say she said she
had written to him ? "

A hundred times, she said, and received
no answer."

** That looks very much as if he had
chosen to desert her entirely, and did not
intend to notice any demand. I fear he
will not come if we send for him."

'' I do not know that. I think he may.
I have an idea in my mind. I will tell
you why I have it, afterwards. Since you
told me what his besetting sin was, I have
watched him carefully. He does what he
feels inclined to do, and leaves the results
to chance. I have seen it in a thousand
things, great and small. I can tell no
reason why he should have committed
this crime  his heart is black  I do not

understand such things. But I believe
that when last he saw the girl, he did not
know of this, and that he was tired of the
caprice, and afraid that her letters might
tell him of some such thing ; so he has
never read them, but trusted to his god,
chance, that they did not tell him what he
did not want to hear. I saw him burn a
thing one day, without opening it. Your
brother asked him why he did that, when
he knew it was a bill he would have to
pay. He said he knew nothing till he
had read it."

She also told him of the episode she had
seen between Otho and the young woman
who had been singing.

'' The expression on his face was fear,'
she went on, as coolly as she could. '' I
did not understand it then. Now I do.
It was dusk. He could not see the
figure properly ; he feared to meet Ada ;
he thought for a moment that it was Ada,
come to accuse him of his sin. All the

time he was here he must have been
haunted by the fear that she might confront
him. His questions to us about her,
were for a blind ; and I think he wanted
to get some news of her, without seeming
to seek it. As we told him nothing, he
chose to behave as if there were nothing
to tell. This has all come into my mind
since I have seen Ada. Perhaps I am
wrong ; but if I am right  and I believe I
am, and we send a message to Mr. Gilbert
Langstroth, Otho will know what it means,
and will come'*

Could Gilbert have known ?"
'' No, no, no ! " she exclaimed vehemently.
'' I will stake my life on it that
he did not."

'' I think your theory may be quite right,
up to a certain point. You may be right
as to the past, that is, for that would be
quite consistent with his character. But
I doubt your sanguine anticipations being
correct. I doubt his coming, if we send

for him. Suppose he Is out of England,
and refuses to come ; because it would
be so much easier for him just to leave
her to you, or to herself, or to her fate."

*' There Is some little time yet. If he
does not answer, I will go to him where
he is, and make him come. I will so
speak to him that he shall not dare do
anything but come. I will die, but I will
force him to make what miserable reparation
lies with him. He Is poor now," she
added, with a peculiar smile, such as Michael
had never seen upon her face before.
Before very long, he will be a pauper.
I know it. He will be dependent upon me.
I have understood that for some little time
past. But if he does not come home and
marry Ada, I will let him die of hunger
In the street, rather than give him a
penny."

She did not speak noisily nor vehemently,
but Michael saw that she was quite
prepared to carry out her words.

'' Then you have a strong hold upon
him," he said. " Now, what we have todo,
is to telegraph to Gilbert. We caen, of
course, have an answer from him tomorrow.
By the way, it cannot go before
tomorrow. Then we shall know better
what to do. If you will give me pen and
paper, we can perhaps agree together what
to say."

Eleanor brought the writing things, and
after various false attempts, they decided
to send : 

'' Send O. A. here instantly, on a matter
of life and death. Not an hour to be lost.
If he is not near, send information how he
is soonest to be found."

I will see that it goes first thing in the
morning," said he. '' And you say Ada
is coming to coif ? "
'eyes ; at nine."

That is well. She could not be in a
better place. Do not leave your house
yourself. I will see Mr. Dixon. There is

VOL. III. 51

no necessity for you to trouble. Try to
make her talk to you about it; do you
understand } It will be better for her than
anything. It may save her life and her

reason."

*' Yes, I will do so. Do you think I
should send for her here to-night ? "

No, I do not. It would excite the
curiosity and suspicion of your own
servants, and the tale would be over the
whole village long before morning. I
shall be obliged to tell them over the way,
though," he added, 'because it might be
just possible that Gilbert's reply might
make it necessary for some one to go upto
town, to settle things more expeditiously.
I might go up alone ; or if you went, I
would go with you  if I may."

"If you may ! " she repeated, in a faltering
voice. '' What could / have done without
you ! "

*' Another time," said he, looking straight
into her eyes, '' I will tell you something.

We have other things to think about now.
Be as tranquil as you can, and remember
that you could have done nothing but what
you have done."

He wrung her hand without saying anything
more, and left her.

They had searched their hearts to find
what was the best to do in this terrible
emergency, and being at one on the point
they did it. The time in which to decide
was short, and they did not know the
whole extent of the woe about which they
were, as it were, legislating. Perhaps they
tacitly agreed that the nature which had
endured so long could endure till to-morrow
morning. They knew not what were the
principal factors in the sum of the events,
in the midst of which they found themselves
without a moment's warning. Those
factors were despair, and the promptings
of a heart which had literally had all life
and all reason ground out of it by seven
months of perfect wretchedness.

Eleanor slept little that night, and waited
with sickening anxiety for nine o'clock.
It came, but brought not Ada with it.
Half-past nine ; yea, ten had struck, and
she came not. Thrilling with uneasiness,
Eleanor knew not what to do. She feared
by making inquiries to excite suspicion.
Unhappy and uncertain, she waited till
about half-past ten. Michael called, and,
without sitting down, just told her not to
make herself more uneasy than was necessary,
but that he had been at Mr. Dixon's,
intending to appoint a meeting with him
on his return. His assistant said he had
had a letter from him, deferring his return
till the following day, and that the maid
had told him that Miss Dixon had gone
out, and up the town, without waiting for
any breakfast.

Eleanor felt her heart in her mouth.

'' Has she gone out to kill herself? " she
whispered.

I do not think so," said Michael. " She

cannot have wandered very far. You
shall have news as soon as I can send it.
There is only one road out of this end of
the town, and I am riding that way. Good
morning."

So she was left alone, with the conviction
that Michael himself was far more disturbed
than he chose to tell her. Fears
and terrors loomed up like giant shadows
in the background of her mind, and so she
passed the most terrible day of her life.

CHAPTER X.

ADA.

Ada had gone home, after leaving the
Dower House. The maid had told Michael
that Miss Dixon had gone out about eight
o'clock, in her bonnet and shawl, without
any breakfast, and that she had had nothing
to eat after her arrival at home.
She had never, indeed, taken her things
off ; but was in exactly the same dress she
had worn on her journey to Bradstane,
which had been a long and fatiguing one.
On going home from her interview with
Eleanor, she went upstairs, partly in
mechanical obedience to a remembered
mandate of Miss Askam's, partly automatically.


She never undressed, or even lay down
on her bed. Part of the cruel night she
spent in sitting on a chair by the wall,
staring with blank eyes into the darkness,
and repressing, half mechanically, the
moans that rose to her lips. Another
portion of her vigil was consumed in a
restless wandering to and fro. Her chamber
was over the empty parlour. No one
would hear or heed her footsteps. At
last, finding the darkness unbearable, she
struck a match, and lighted two candles
which stood on the dressing-table, and
gazed about the room. It was her own
bedroom that she was in, and the bed,
beside which she sat, was the bed in
which Ada Dixon had slept  the same
Ada Dixon who had felt indignant and
insulted when her plain-spoken lover had
told her that no honest girl required notice
from her superiors. How very angry she
had been when he said it. At this recollection
she held her hands before her

mouth to Stifle a shriek. In this room,
before that looking-glass, how many hours
had she spent, trying the effect of this,
that, or the other piece of finery ; endeavouring
to model her bonnets, her hats,
her mantles, and her gowns upon those of
her patroness, Magdalen Wynter ? In that
desk, standing upon the little round table
in the corner, how many notes might be
reposing, indited by Otho Askam ? Notes
slipped into her hand under Magdalen's
very eyes, when he had met her at Balder
Hall ; behind her unsuspecting father's
back, when she happened to be in the
shop. Notes containing at first nothing
but a rather heavy style of compliment,
adapted to a taste not over-fastidious in
such matters ; tragic effusions, when read
by the light of this present ; ponderously
comic, if viewed critically on their intrinsic
merits as compositions.

When had it first seriously occurred to
her that she might become Mrs. Askam,

of Thorsgarth ? Why, on that night, a
hundred years ago, when there had been
a grand concert, at which she had sung 
when Miss Wynter had been flouted, and
Ada flattered and complimented.

That was the night Roger had come
in in such a fury, and carried her away.
Roger  Roger  her thoughts wandered 
who was Roger, and what had he to do
with her ? They were engaged to be

married once  now  yet Yes, and

in November he was to come and see
her.

Again a scream of wild laughter rose to
her lips. Again she managed to stifle It,
and again her mind reverted, whether she
would or no, to her horror, her nightmare,
the history of the last seven months. She
recollected how Otho had appeared one
day at the farmhouse where she was staying,
and had paid her compliments ; how
she, grown bolder now that Magdalen was
not present to overawe her, had, in a perish

manner, chaffed him about his engagement
; to which he had retorted that he was
not married yet, and that engagements
might be broken off; and had appealed to
her admiring cousins to know if Miss Dixon
would not grace any sphere, even the most
exalted. She remembered the gradually
arising passion in his looks and his words,
and how she herself, by one of those
mysterious attractions which we see daily
exemplified, had found herself spellbound
by him in a manner which Roger could
never have compassed if he had died for it.
Temptation, kisses, promises  such profuse
promises, appealing with instinctive acuteness
to her vanity, her love of distinction
the strange eyes which magnetized and
fascinated her ; a brief, delirious dream 
and since then, hell, by day and by night;
not from the sense of defilement which
would kill some natures  but, let the truth
be written of her ; she has her compeers in
many places  from the scorching conviction

that if, or when, she was found out,
disgrace and contumely would be her
portion.

She recalled the parting from Roger 
when she had dismissed him in the pride of
her heart, at a time when hope was still
strong; and though she was beginning to
have sickening qualms, yet she had been
deluded enough to mistake his footstep
behind her for Otho's, and had had a wild
idea that he had at last broken with Magdalen,
and was coming to save and to claim
her. Then her departure ; the letters she
had written, which had never been noticed ;
her aunt's gradually awakened suspicions,
and the tales she had told to stave off
ruin and discovery ; her journey home in
fluttering hope, and desperate resolve ; fora
letter from home in which her father had
expressed himself obscurely, had made her
think Otho was at Thorsgarth. How she
had made inquiries, and learnt that he had
been gone a month or more. Then

Eleanor, and her promises, and how she
was to go and see her in the morning.

The night hours passed swiftly in this
consuming vigil, and presently Ada saw
that it was broad day, time, therefore, to go
and see Miss Askam. That was her one
thought now, that she was to go and see
Miss Askam. And yet, her mind being
more than a little wandering, she did not
realize that though daylight, it was not yet
the appointed time ; but went downstairs,
and let herself out of the house. The maid
was at work in the kitchen ; but she was
a new-comer since Ada had left home, and
did not therefore address her, or ask her
any questions.

When Ada was out in the street she felt
very weak and very strange, but she looked
at a clock which stood over a public building,
nearly opposite her father's house.
The hands pointed to eight ; and then she
remembered vaguely that Miss Askam had
said nine ; she must not go before nine.

She would take a little walk then, in
the early freshness ; she could not go back
to that dreadful room. Besides, she had
advanced a little up the town, into the
square : there were Miss Askam's blinds
still down ; it would not do to go there
yet, though she longed to do so, and, had
she been in her right mind, would have
knocked without further ado, confident in
the generous charity of the other woman.

So she wandered on, out of the town,
faint and feeble for want of food and rest ;
crazy, and growing every moment more so,
with woe, and fear, and wretchedness.
Soon she was on a lonely road, stretching
out to the north-east, with few houses,
and, at that hour, scarcely a person on it.
How beautiful it all was, in this golden
morning sunshine, with the mists rising
from the river, and the trees, clad in yellow
and scarlet and russet, heavy and drooping
in the windless air of a frosty October morning,
precursor of a glorious autumn day !

Then she emerged from the shade of
these trees, and found herself upon a wild
upland road, with sweeps of country stretching
far and wide around her"; fields of yellow
stubble, pastures, meadows ; stretches of
heavy wood ; here and there the gleam
of the river, and on every side, the wall
of blue fells in the distance. The rough,
uphill road lay before her, with scarce a
house to be seen ; and overhead a blue sky,
from which fleecy white clouds were everywhere
rolling back to show the fathomless,
serene expanse.

'ray, but I'm so tired, so tired!" Ada
sighed, as she stumbled, and then recovered
herself. " This is not being a lady ; why
does he not come home ? If I had the
carriage he promised me,  he said he
would drive to Balder Hall with me, to see
Miss Wynter, and show her what he thought
of me, when we were married."

Here she found herself opposite to a tiny
house at the roadside, or rather, at a

corner where four roads met ; and at its
door a woman stood, saw her, called out
to her, and wished her good day.

Good day ! " said Ada, with a sudden
affectation of her old mincing manner.
Might I beg a drink of water from you ? "

The woman, who was kindly, though
rough, would have had her come in and
have some bread and milk, but she would
not. She had quite forgotten Eleanor
Askam by this time, and said she had far
to go, and must not wait. The water was
bestowed upon her, and she stood to drink
it, holding the cup with her right hand,
while her left rested upon the table. Tete
woman looked at her, and drew her own
conclusions from what she saw. Ada
thanked her, with an affectation of superiority
and patronage, and left the cottage.
Its mistress stood watching her, as she
turned to the right, along a high, toilsome
road, and marched slowly and heavily
along It.

'' Some poor crazy creature, whose houris
not far off. God pity her ! " she said
within herself, and for a moment felt
inclined to run after the girl, and insist on
sheltering her. But the thought of herman,"
and the trouble he would feel it to
have such a person in the house deterred
her. She went inside again, to her morning's
work.

Ada crept on, till she saw at a little
distance, gray farm-buildings and a whitewashed
house, with a long, low front ; and
it came across her mind that she could not
walk any further, but that she would go
there, and ask them to let her rest till her
carriage came, which was to meet her
there, and take her home to lunch. And
if they asked her who she was  why,
the answer was simple  Mrs. Askam, of
Thorsgarth. And in fancy, she saw
curtseys dropped, and heard them begging
her to be seated. For she was now quite
crazy, only in this way; the connecting

String in all her wild thoughts, was the
vague recollection of real promises.

Before she arrived at the farm, she
swerved to one side ; her knees gave way,
and in a little hollow in the wall, where
there was a heap of stones, she sank down,
feeling as if she were going to sleep ; but
the sleep became a long, deadly faint, and
Ada Dixon, the petted beauty of the old
town where she had been born and bred,
who had been the plighted wife of a goodman,
lay in a heap by the roadside, with
only the broad sky above her, with nothing
but her mother earth on which to
rest her dainty limbs. 

And here she continued to lie, till
Michael Langstroth rode up, having made
inquiries on his way, and learnt from the
woman at the cross-roads, that such a
young woman as he described had passed.

Ay, doctor," said the woman, who
knew him, though not Ada. '* She was
none fit to be walking on such roads at such

VOL. III. 52

times. I wanted her to bide a bit, and
rest ; but nay  she said she had far to go,
and yon's t' road she took."

Michael rode on, determined to find her,
for Roger's sake, for the sake of Eleanor,
and out of his own pity for her condition.
He was not long in coming within sight
of the gray stone farm, and within a stone s
throw of it, the curve in the wall, and the
figure that lay beneath it.

He muttered an inarticulate word, ashe
sprang from his horse, and stooped over
her, and when he saw her face, recoiled
for a moment. For a brief instant or two
he could see nothing distinctly, a film was
over his eyes, and a great sob in his throat,
as he turned, and hung his horse's bridle
over the post of a gate in the wall. He
then stooped down, raised the lifeless
figure in his arms, and carried her over
the rough road to the farm door. The
dogs, who were his friends, came out to
welcome him, and then stopped, sniffing



suspiciously at the skirts of the strange
burden he bore. The farmer's wife saw
him, and ran forward, with upraised hands,
Lord 'a mercy, Doctor Langstroth  what
IS t r

Mrs. Nadin, you have promised many
a time to do me a good turn ; and I want
a very good one doing now. Give a
shelter to this poor thing till her trouble
is over ; it is a sad tale, and I'll tell it you
afterwards."

Mrs. Nadin made no more ado. Lang-troth
had, according to her, saved her
husband's life two years ago, and with
true north country love, she had been ever
since burning to " pay him back again."
She only stopped to look at the girl's face,
and to ejaculate Ada's name. Then she
called her daughter to her aid, and they
whispered horror-struck conjectures to one
another as they tended the wretched young
woman.

And here, under the roof of these pitiful
strangers was that evening born, before
his time, the son of Otho Askam  a child
of sorrow, if ever one came into the world.

CHAPTER XL

THE BROTHERS.

It was late In the evening of the same
day. Eleanor and Michael were alone
together In her drawing-room. She had
not been left alone all day. Unable to
bear the solitude and suspense alone, she
had sent for Mrs. Parker who, of course,
knew all the story from Michael. The
good lady had come, and remained with
her during all the hours of waiting and
terror. When Michael was announced,
Eleanor had said she would like to see
him alone, and Mrs. Parker had gone Into
another room. He had come in, looking
both tired and haggard; for what had

happened had struck him, both through
his friend, and through the woman he
loved. Though Roger had now no
connection with Ada, Michael knew him
too well to suppose for a moment that
he had, or could have ceased to love
her, in the space of five short months.
The worst agony of separation might
be over, but he could imagine what
this news would be to the man who had
loved this unhappy girl so tenderly and so
faithfully. As for Eleanor, her sufferings
were his sufferings now. And thirdly,
there was himself and his own sensations
in the matter. He had never admired
Ada, and had always been sorry that she
had been Roger's choice ; but it had never
entered into his head to dream of such a
denouement to the broad farce he had seen
played at the concert. It was not that he
had credited Otho with being any better
than he was, but it had not occurred to
him to look at such a side as being possible

to the affair. If any one had suggested
it to him, he would have said first, that
Otho would not dare to commit such a
sin where a girl of Ada's upbringing was
concerned, and next, that Ada herself was
beyond suspicion. The whole thing had
burst upon him, and he was filled with
disgust and horror, such as a man whose
mind and life have been alike clean, must
feel when he comes face to face with such
a history, and finds it intruding itself into
the most intimate relations of his own
life.

Summoning up his courage, he had told
her all that had happened. She had. at
first been standing. As he proceeded, her
face went paler; her limbs trembled. At
the picture of how he had found Ada lying
by the roadside, the tears rained from her
eyes. And when he ceased to speak she
was seated at the table, her head buried in
her arms, as if she would fain have hidden
her face from him and from all the world.

Indeed, a cloud of great darkness hung
over her soul, and it seemed for the
moment as if neither religion nor hope,
nor any good thing could stand in the
presence of overwhelming, triumphant villainy
like this. Michael was watching her
silently, while a conflict was going on in
his own mind. She considered him the
embodiment of strength and goodness, and
believed implicitly in a most godlike mind
which she attributed to him. And he
knew she thought that of him. Women's
eyes have the habit of confiding such
opinions, to the men concerning whom
they hold them, when their tongues may
not say the same things. Michael knew
very well that he was nothing at all like
what she imagined him to be ; indeed, he
perhaps would not have been what she
thought him if he could. He was, as he
knew, something a great deal more serviceable
and useful in this working day world
a man, with a man's wants and failings

and weaknesses. And the desire which
just then was stronger in him than anything
else was, not to lecture this young
woman, from the superior standpoint of a
godlike intelligence, on the futility of her
cries and tears, but to clasp her in his
arms, and tell her that it was all very
dreadful  even more dreadful than she in
her innocence knew or could understand
yet, and that he only asked her to let him
take the half of all her trouble upon himself.
That was his impulse, even as he
stood here. And the conflicting agency,
which beat back this desire was, the fear
lest to do what he wished now might bear
the semblance of entrapping her, of taking
her unawares, and of making her need into
his opportunity. Not very godlike this,
nor very superior, but quite human.

All is of no use, then ? " she said at
last, raising her face, tear-stained and disfigured,
from her hands, and looking at
him. Then, as if a sudden thought had

Struck her, she rose and came hastily near
to where he stood.

'' How stupid of me to sit crying there,
and thinking of nothing but myself, while
you think of every one except yourself.
You wish me to go to her, do you not .-
And I will go. I will be ready directly,
if you will wait. I never thought of it. If
he deserts her, I will not. If I can do
nothing else, I can sit by her, and people
can hear that I am there. That is always
something."

She made a step as if to go to the door.
Michael caught her hand to detain her.

No, no ! I was thinking nothing of the
kind," said he. " You must not go. Do
you know  but of course you don't  that
she is perfectly insane at this present
moment ? She would not know you. She
does not know me ; and she would shriek
with horror if any one showed her her
child. She is in the right hands, and you
must not go near her."

'' Mad  but she will get better ?"
"I hope so  at least, perhaps she may."
But she will recover her reason ? "
Most likely, if she lives. But it maybe
a long time first."

Stayed in her desire to go to Alas
help, and as it were cast back upon herself,
Eleanor stood drooping for a moment.
** Have you had no telegram from
London ? " he asked.

Oh, I had nearly forgotten. This is
it," she said, taking it from the mantelpiece.
Michael read 

Your message received and attended
to." It was from Gilbert. He turned, it
over reflectively.

Hem ! I wonder what that means."
'' Can it mean that he is coming ? I
wish he had been more explicit."

*' He would not wish to excite suspicion.
Bradstane suspicion is easily aroused. If
he did come, it would be by the south
mail, which is due in a quarter of an hour.

If you like, if you will allow me, I will
wait with you till he comes ; or rather, till
we see whether he comes."

'' You are very good. You are sure
there is nothing more that I can do ? "

Nothing, at present."

"Then shall we go to the other room,
and stay with Mrs. Parker till we know
what happens ? "

If you like," said Michael slowly; and
he felt as if some living, tangible thing
were rushing on wings of swiftness towards
them, so visibly, to him, did the
moment approach when the veil between
them should be rent aside. Yet he made
a step towards the door, as if to open it for
her ; and she moved towards it too, and
swerved unsteadily to one side, for excitement
and suspense had told upon her and
weakened her. Michael knew that she
was proud, and that her pride impelled her
to conceal what she felt as long as was
practicable ; but not the slightest sign or

movement that she made could escape
him. He was at her side in an instant.

'' No, stay here ! Do not go into the
other room," he said, taking her hand.
I will bring Mrs. Parker to you, if you
like ; but do you stay here."

He had a firm hand, and a grasp at
once strong and gentle ; and as she felt her
hand in it she paused again, steadying herself
against the head of a sofa, and looking
at him, half-affrighted, half-eager, at the
look she encountered.

It was nothing  the weakness of a
moment," she said. *' I will conquer it. I
must not give way now." 

I think you must," said he, as he released
her hand, and stood before her fora
moment. '' You are faint ; you are
weak ; you are broken. This battle is
one for which you have never been trained.
Give way ; it is the best."

And what is to become of me if I
do ? " she asked blankly.

Michael opened wide his arms. She

looked at him for a little while, and then,

with a low sobbing, as of one who is weary

and broken-hearted, moved towards him ashe

towards her, and found her rest.
*-r- * *

They were still sitting together, when
a ring sounded through the house.

That is just the time for the people

from the south to come in," said Eleanor.

And in another moment her maid had

ushered Gilbert Langstroth into the room.

Both of them noticed the expression upon

Gilbert's face as he came in. It was one

of eager expectancy. Both saw the glance

which fell from his eyes upon Eleanor. It

chilled her ; it was like the looks he had

bestowed upon her when he had sent her

the flowers, before he had preached to hera

sermon on the necessity of evil to the

development of good in the world. But

from her, his eyes fell upon Michael, and

his face changed. He was quite silent.

She rose, looking at him tremulously.

'* You are very, very good. I did not
quite know what to expect from your
message," said she.

I knew you would not. I could not
explain in a telegram. From yours, I
gathered that some kind of storm had
burst, and that you were in trouble."

'' I am in such trouble, that but for him,"
she said slowly, and stopped a moment,
laying her hand upon Michael's arm, and
looking very earnestly at Gilbert, who had
gone very pale. Michael had not changed.
But as Eleanor paused, Gilbert's eager
look all faded, and he shook slightly from
head to foot. The two brothers were
regarding one another ; for the first time
for six years they were actually confronted.
They must, to carry this business through,
have some kind of intercourse and communication.


'' But for him," she went on, "I could
have done nothing. I  a woman, could
have done nothing to any purpose."

She looked from one to the other of
them earnestly, imploringly, and still there
was silence ; till at last she sat down at the
table, rested her arms upon it, and leaning
forward said, first to one and then to the
other 

Michael, you have spent your strength
and your time this day in helping those
who have never done you any good, in
trying to save them from the effects of
their sins, at least. And you, Gilbert,
have come promptly here on no selfish
errand. At my call you have come quickly
to help me, who have no claim at all upon
you. So good, and so considerate and
helpful to others, will you go on hating
each other ; will you not be brothers
again ? "

The two men were looking into each
other's eyes, and Michael at last knew
what that strange, potent sensation had
been, which had shaken him on encountering
Gilbert's look that night, when they

had been almost side by side at the .
Not hate, not resentment, ashe
had fancied ; neither one nor the other ;
but his old love for his brother, the
ancient, inborn love, which not all the
anger, enmity, and bitterness had succeeded
in quenching. And the voice
which addressed them both, went on
speaking still, earnestly, tremulously, with
passionate conviction 

''If but one good thing came out of
all this blackness, would it not be better
than nothing  nothing but sin and sorrow ?
And there is so much grief and so much
wrongs in the world, that if men had not
forgiveness to fight them with, I do not
see how there could be any chance for
happiness at all."

There was another little pause. At last
Gilbert said, in a low voice 

'' I never hated him "

Without quite knowing how, they found
their hands clasped, each in one of the

VOL. III. 53

Other's, and Michael said, " Shall it be allover,
Gilbert ? "

From the bottom of my heart."

'* Then let us say no more about it'*

Eleanor rose.

*' I shall leave you," she said gently.
** Stay here if you choose. I shall go to
Mrs. Parker."

Gilbert and Michael both made a movement
towards the door, but something in
Gilbert's look caused Michael to fall back
and yield place to his brother. He turned
away, went inside the room again, and
looked into the fire, feeling that he could
afford to be very magnanimous.

Gilbert opened the door, and as Eleanor
was passing out, he said to her almost ina
whisper 

'* Only one word. You and he  are
you  has he  have you given him any
promise ? "

Eleanor looked at him steadily, though
without any of the old distrust, and then

answered him in the same voice, but with
a proud smile 

'* I have promised him everything. I
have given my life into his hands."

I am too late ? "

She hesitated, looking troubled. Gilbert
smiled slightly.

I should always have been too late,
Eleanor ? "

She looked at him appealingly, and Inclined
her head. He bowed to her, and
she went quickly away. Gilbert returned
to the room, and to his brother.

I shall never want to say anything to
her again, Michael, that you may not
hear."

Michael looked at him, but said nothing,
and Gilbert went on 

Shall we have to see her again tonight
 on this matter, I mean ? "

** No. Let us go to my house, If you
will come. There is a black business to
be settled, sooner or later."

CHAPTER XII.

'' AMIDST THE BLAZE OF NOON."

Michael took his brother home, and so
true is it that time and life can and do, if
not wipe out, yet blur and deface the recollection
of the sternest and most terrible
past scenes, that Michael never once
thought, as he opened the door, and
ushered Gilbert in, of how that door had
last closed upon his companion. Gilbert,
however, remembered it  remembered
many other things too, as he entered the
familiar square hall, and looked furtively
round at the well-known things which still
furnished it. When they got into the
library, some recollection of it all seemed to
come to Michael too. Perhaps something

in his brother's attitude, and in the slow,
stiff way in which he moved and gazed
about him, recalled past scenes to his mind.
He turned to Gilbert, took his hand into
one of his, and laid the other upon his
shoulder.

Gilbert, we have little time for going
into old troubles, in the midst of these new
ones; but, I say, let bygones be bygones.
I am more glad than I can tell you to see
you here ; and I would like you to feel it
your home again, if you can."

Gilbert's only present reply  though he
had more to say, at some future date  was
to wring the hand that held his. They
understood each other again, at last  or,
perhaps, for the first time ; and as Michael
said, there was no time for further explanations.
He rang the bell, and ordered
refreshments for his brother ; and while
Gilbert ate and drank, Michael sat conning
over a railway guide, and jotting down
memoranda.

How long can you stay, Gilbert ? Over
tomorrow ? "

'* I could manage till the day after, if I
wire to my head man tomorrow morning."

'' That is well. Then tomorrow, I will
leave you in charge here, and go over to
Leeds, and tell Roger of this. If I began
to write it, I should make a mess of it,
I know ; besides, writing is cold-blooded
work, in such a case."

"It was all off between them, was it
not ? "

Ay. But it never need have been, but
for that d  d. scoundrel philandering round
the girl, and putting her out of conceit with
Roger. It is his doing from beginning to
end, and I must say I should glory in seeing
him punished as he deserves. I think he
wants tearing to pieces. But don't talk tome
about it, or I shall lose all my self-control,
and I want it every bit."

With which he returned to the study
of Bradshaw, trying to make out how

he could soonest get himself conveyed
to Leeds, see Roger, and return to
Bradstane. And as he searched In the
railway guide, to see how the trains were
connected on the different lines, there came
into his mind a keen sense of the grimness
of the contrast between his errand, and the
means by which he was going to hurry to
Roger with his budget of ill-news, and
back again.

Our modern contrivances, indeed, for
speedily moving about from place to place,
and for darting news hither and thither,
have a certain appearance of haste and
want of dignity when tragedy comes in
question. And yet, it is surely a proof of
the intrinsic might, of the victorious power
of great elementary human emotions, that
when they are every now and then called
into play, in this decorous age, it is they
that triumph, and not the comfortable
arrangements which only take into account
ease of mind and plenty of purse. Love

and hate and despair go striding grimly or
gloriously on, and live their lives, and strike
their strokes, and sway the minds and souls
of those possessed by them, and override
the obstacles In their course, as potently
now as they did In more picturesque days.
Bradshaw and the penny post come In in a
parenthesis, and the system of electric telegraphy
powerfully supports them, so that
we can send the news of our own catastrophes,
or of those of our neighbours,
with a speed unheard of a century ago,
though even before then there was a saying
that " ill news travels fast." Nay,
these things, if rightly considered, appear
conducive to privacy rather than, as might
appear from a superficial glance, to publicity.
For any one who reads a startling
announcement in letter or newspaper, has
the habit, nowadays, of calling it a canard,
and of saying that It Is sure to be contradicted
tomorrow. And so It often Is.
But even if It be not, this beautiful system

of Bradshaw, penny post and Co., has no
sooner certified the truth of one calamity,
than it is ready and to the fore with another,
and a worse than the former one ; which
second tragedy an intelligently interested
public devours, even if incredulous, with
never-satiated delight ; and thus the immediate
actors in the events chronicled are in
reality left almost as much to themselves
and their own devouring emotions, as they
would have been before the steam-engine
was invented. The world has heard of
your domestic drama, that is true ; and its
details have been printed in every daily
paper throughout the kingdom. But the
day after, it is provided with something
much more remarkable than your twopenny-halfpenny
calamity, and has forgotten in a
week that it ever heard your name.

Some such train of thought was in
Michael's mind, as he paused to consider
the sequence in which he should arrange
his different tasks on the morrow. Gilbert's

voice broke In upon his reverie. He had
risen, and stood with his back against the
mantelpiece.

Michael, it seems that you and Miss
Askam * understand each other,' as the
phrase goes."

'* Yes, we do," said Michael.

I'll make a clean breast of it. Last
year, I came down here with some curiosity
to see this girl who had come and planted
herself down with Otho. Knowing what
he was, I was undecided whether she was
very fast, or very silly. So I came prepared
for a good deal of amusement. You
need not glare at me in that way. I would
bet something you had your own private
bit of astonishment in the matter, too.
Well, the very first time I saw her, I
understood one thing  that she was neither
fast nor silly, and the more I saw of her
the more lost in astonishment I was. Do
you remember that knight in ' The Faery
Queene'  I forget which he was  who

came across a woman of her sort, and was
struck dumb by her goodness, till

' He himself, long gazing thereupon.
At last fell humbly down upon his knee.
And of his wonder ifiade religion.'

It was something like that with me ; and
in a very short time I had made up my
mind that she was the woman I would
marry, if I could only get her to take me.
And I had the best hopes in the world,
for Otho had begun to conduct himself
like a maniac, even then, and she speedily
found out that I was the only person who
had any control over him. Well, then
came that night of the concert ; a good
many things came about that night, it
seems to me. And when I saw you and
her in the same room together, and you
speaking to her, and her to you, I was
certain there was something of the kind
going on. Michael, I gave her up from that
moment. . . . And yet, when time went
on  it is nearly a year ago  and I heard

of nothing between you, I began to think
that, perhaps, after all, you had decided
to have nothing to do with one who belonged
to us, and I began to have a little
hope again. When I got her telegram
this morning, I felt a good deal of hope,
and I frankly confess I was not sorry to
hear that she was In trouble. I hoped
that I could so serve her that I should be
able to ask for a reward ; and the shape
I proposed to give It was, that we should
pension off Otho with her money  some of
It, you know  and that she should come tome,
and never be troubled any more  If
she only would. But you had forestalled
me ; and since It Is you, I submit ; but If
it had been anybody else "

He paused expressively. Michael was
looking earnestly at him, a crowd of new
emotions In his heart. This, then, was the
secret of Gilbert's conduct which had so
puzzled Eleanor.

'' I should have told her long ago that

I loved her," observed Michael ; *' but there
was her money, and her connections.
They were too much for me''

As far as money goes, you will be her
equal," said Gilbert. '' I don't suppose she
will let Otho starve, and I can assure you
there will not be a great superfluity of
means when his affairs are wound up ; and
now that this girl and this child will have
to be provided for "

'' If they live," put in Michael.

'' If they live  yes. Well, that will
make a hole in her income, I can assure
you. While, on your part, there is that
money  Michael " he hesitated, stammered
 '' that money that    "

'' I know," said Michael quietly. " What
about it ? "

** Why, I have done well with it. I
have always hoped that some day you
would not reject it. It is six years ago,
and I have made the most of it. It is a
good large sum now  larger than if "

Michael gave a short laugh.

' I can well believe that."

And if I am to believe that you have
forgiven," he added earnestly, " you will
not refuse any longer to take your share 
ay, and as much more as you like  so that
you can go to her and fear nothing, even
if she loses every penny she has."

There was a pause. Michael at last
said 

** You must let me think about it. I
cannot decide such a thing all in a minute."

Indeed, he felt that he could not. And
he was beginning to feel that six years ago
he had been hard  as hard as some pagan
or puritan, whose creed relentlessly demands
an eye for an eye, and a tooth fora
tooth. Quite a new feeling came over
him with regard to Gilbert, who, it seemed,
had worked for him for many years,
and patiently bided till circumstances
should allow him to offer the fruits of his
work. Sweeping condemnations, he reflected,

would be comfortable, very comfortable,
to the carnal heart of offended
man ; but reasonable man must confess
that scarcely ever are they just.

*****

The months dragged on. Autumn fled
by ; winter had passed from oft' the face
of the earth, and disappeared from the
skies, but not from the soul and the mind
of Ada. Gradually, after a long and
terrible illness, her bodily health began
to be restored. The death for which she
had prayed, and which she had begged
Michael wildly to procure for her, had
stayed his hand. She was uplifted from
the bed of sickness, but arose a changed
being, altered and transformed apparently
in her very nature. A melancholy, deep,
black, and profound as the grave itself, had
settled upon her. A melancholy which
nothing ever seemed to move or change.
She was not mad now, if she could still
hardly be called sane, just because of this

black cloud which rolled between her and
other persons. She had no craze, and
no delusion, properly speaking ; she was
simply dead to hope and joy, to every
amelioration of the present, to every hope
in the future. Eleanor studied her with
awe and wonder, realizing the mysterious
nature of the human creature in her. For
if Ada had lost great things, if she had
fallen from a high ideal, had been dashed
from a great height of purity and loftiness
of soul, and so had felt herself irreparably
stained and polluted, her present condition
of apathetic despair would have been
comprehensible to Eleanor, and she would
have sympathized as well as pitied. But
the things she had lost, and the loss of
which had reduced her to what she was,
were so small ; at least, they appeared so
to the other. It was not for moral and
spiritual degradation that she mourned
and refused to be comforted, but for material
trouble,  vanity crushed, great hopes

of advancement and aggrandizement shattered
; her social position, such as it was,
gone for ever, and humbler women who
had been clever enough to take care
of themselves, exalted above her. When
they showed her her child, who was a
healthy and beautiful boy, though not
robust, she turned away in horror, with
hatred in her eyes  the nearest approach
to an active emotion which she had shown
since her calamity. It was what Michael
had expected to see, and he noted it down
in his mind.

I wish he was dead, and me too ! " she
said, looking coldly at Michael. '' I think
you might have put us both out of the
way, Dr. Langstroth, if you had had as
much kind feeling as people talk about."

Michael told Eleanor that the child
must be removed from Ada's vicinity.
Therefore, while the latter remained at
the farm, in Mrs. Nadin's care, Eleanor
charged herself with the baby, and took

VOL. III. 54

it and Its nurse into her house. She could
have devised no surer means of healing
the wounds, sweetening the bitterness,
soothing the airiness of her own thoughts.
The utter helplessness of the child, the
terrible circumstances of its birth, its
clouded future, appealed irresistibly to
her nature. She grew to love the little
creature with an intensity which surprised
herself. She hushed it to sleep in her
arms, or interrogated its large mournful
eyes as they stared upwards, with long,
vacant gaze into her absorbed face. And
in this occupation she had time to ponder
over all that had happened, and to try
to shape her course in accordance, not
with the dictates of anger and passion,
however just, but with the laws of mercy
and forgiveness. The helpless figure in
her arms, whose warm and clinging dependence
seemed to make everything more
human and more endurable, softened her,
calmed her, so that sometimes she spoke

to Michael of what had happened, and
of what might happen, with an insight and
a depth of thought and feeling which
surprised him, ready as he was to credit
her with all manner of goodness and
nobleness.

Her great desire, during the period in
which the boy was under her care, was
to get a marriage performed between Otho
and Ada. Thorsgarth was not an entailed
property, though it had always been the
practice in the Askam family to arrange
it and the succession to it as if it had been.
If Otho and Ada were married, and he
could be forced to do justice to this child,
though he could never give him the name
he ought to have borne, yet much evil
would be removed, and great sorrow and
heartburning averted.

Strange to say, the difficulties in the way
of this scheme arose, not with Otho, but
with Ada. When the latter was well
enough to leave the farm, Eleanor brought

her to her own house, since Ada utterly
refused to go home, saying she would kill
herself if they took her there.

Through Gilbert, she and Michael had
word that Otho was subdued, cowed, and
changed ; that it had become a sort of
superstitious wish with him to have the
marriage consummated. This gave hope
to Eleanor. But Ada, when questioned,
merely said, with profound melancholy,
and profound indifference, '' What does
it matter? If he married me fifty times,
he cannot give me back any of the things
that made me happy. I do not care what
any one thinks or says. Father says he
will remove from here, and let me live
with him. That will do as well as
anything."

So firmly was she planted in this mind,
that after a time they ceased to press it
upon her, trusting to time to work a change.
At the end of March she was still at
the Dower House, seeing only Eleanor,

Michael, and her father, who sometimes
came to visit her. Mr. Dixon was a broken
man now. His wife's anger took a different
shape from his ; she would have
had him sell his business and retire altogether
from a place where they could never
hold up their heads again. But the poor
old man was not thus to be torn away
from his child, or from the place where she
was. Mrs. Dixon indignantly refused to
see the baby ; but her husband frequently
stole up to the Dower House of an afternoon
or evening, creeping timidly into the
room where his daughter sat, and taking
a place beside her. And here he used to
nurse his little grandchild upon his knee,
trying to disguise from Ada the delight he
could not help taking in its looks and
ways, as, when he had once or twice called
her attention to them, she had looked at
him and at the child, too, in a strange way,
of which Eleanor took more notice than
he did ; and, warned by Michael, she was

ever on her guard. But It was not written
that Ada was to fulfil her lot In any way
such as they sometimes dimly dreaded.
Her thoughts strayed within her darkened
mind, and as she saw the spring outside
breaking around her, and beheld also the
looks and gestures by which Michael and
Eleanor sometimes betrayed, amidst all
the gloom, that they loved, and were happy,
Ada might have cried also 
Oh, dark, dark, dark, amidst the blaze of noon ! "

Most likely, the intelligence of a certain
order which her woe seemed to have developed
In her, read their fears, and smiled
at them. They thought she planned nothing
for the future, any more than she
revived at any sign In the present ; but in
this they were mistaken.

CHAPTER XIII.

LET ME ALONE.

As soon as she had been able to brace
herself up to it, about three weeks after
Ada's return, Eleanor had driven to Balder
Hall to see Magdalen, who was, of course,
acquainted with what had happened. While
Miss Askam could not restrain her sObs
and tears when she came to speak of these
things. Miss Wynter maintained her usual
impassive calm. What she felt about it,
none could have told. She asked many
questions which Eleanor, keenly feeling
her right to be informed in the matter,
answered freely ; but she was very quiet
and calm, and made scarce any comments

Upon it all, and let Eleanor go away,
scarcely replying to the offers of friendship
and sympathy on the part of the latter.
Eleanor had mentioned Miss Strangforth,
to which Magdalen replied very quietly 

Miss Strangforth is dying. I fear
there is no doubt about that, though
Michael would scarcely be likely to mention
it to you in your other troubles. It
is a question of time only, he tells me 
and not a very long time."

'' And then you ? "

I  oh, I shall get on somehow. I am
not afraid."

But promise me that if you are not
decided, you will come to me till you know
something."

** I will see. I appreciate your kindness,
but I can promise nothing," said Magdalen
; but to the great surprise of Eleanor,
she stooped her proud head, and lightly
kissed her visitor's cheek.

With this unaccustomed salute still tingling

there  now hot, now cold  Eleanor
drove home, with what cheer she might.

A short time after this, just about
Christmas, Miss Strangforth died. Her
place was empty at last, and there was to
be a place made for the heir to step in.
Eleanor wondered what would happen to
Magdalen, and at last received news
through Michael. She was going to remain
at Balder Hall. Mr. Strangforth,
the new owner, was a middle-aged man,
with an invalid wife. He was, of course,
distantly related to Magdalen herself.
He had a family of boys and girls, who
wanted much looking after, and he had
asked Miss Wynter to remain, and manage
the household as she had always done. It
seemed a strange post for the haughty
young woman, who had been almost too
proud to set foot outside her aunt's park.
She had accepted Mr. Strangforth's offer,
and said she would call to see Eleanor
as soon as she had time. At present she

was SO busy preparing for the newcomers
that she could not leave the house.

'' Oh," exclaimed Eleanor, " is he a nice
man, Michael ? Will he be kind to her ? "

'' He is a very sedate, grave kind of man
almost austere. But he is a gentleman,
and he will behave becomingly towards
her, I am certain. He quite appreciates
her devotion to his aunt, and told me he
should always provide for her in a way
suitable to her condition and his family,
whatever that may mean."

Eleanor was very thoughtful about this.
She seemed to see Magdalen  and yet
she could not believe that it would ever
be so  growing into one of those women
whose lives are all behind them ; gradually
becoming old and more stately, more
monumental as the years went by ; so that
at last no one would imagine, to look at
her, that she had been the centre of such
passions as she had caused, or moved in ;
so that no one but herself and a few others,

grown old with her, would know how
hotly her heart had beaten, at the same
time that other old hearts had throbbed,
which with time had grown chill.

And at this time, at the end of March,
a change took place in the circumstances
of all, and the marriage which Eleanor
had grown so anxious for, took place  but
not until a little later, in April.

Gilbert wrote to Michael, and said that
he and Otho were coming to Thorsgarth ;
that Otho's affairs were now in such
a state that something must be done about
them. He had, it would seem, run his
course, and it was necessary to see what
could be retrieved in his estate. They
were, of course, coming very quietly, and
would stay as short a time as possible,
bringing the solicitor of the Askam family
with them, as there were certain papers
at Thorsgarth which it was necessary to
overhaul. He wished Eleanor to know
this, as Otho was still in his cowed and

subdued state, and ready to go through
the marriage with Ada, if she could be
persuaded to it.

Eleanor waited till she had heard that
they had actually arrived at Thorsgarth,
and then shut herself up with Ada, and
combated her objections in such wise,
and placed the matter in such a light,
that Ada at last exclaimed 

Very well ! Give me peace ! Since
you say it will do so much good, let us
try it."

The words haunted her hearer for sometime,
but she felt that her purpose was
genuine. Some of the reproach would
be wiped away, and the future of the
child would at any rate be rendered
somewhat more hopeful. She at once
communicated with Gilbert, and Mr.
Johnson, and a special license having
been procured, Otho Askam and Ada
Dixon were made man and wife, in the
drawing-room of the Dower House, one

showery April morning. Eleanor noticed
how, during the service there was a
violent shower of rain, which beat against
the pane, while the sunlight fell on the
trees in the square outside, and how, at
the sound of the falling water, Ada lifted
her face to the window, and looked with
a strange look towards the sky.

Eleanor found her eyes dragged towards
Otho, by a power stronger than her own
will. She was struck with the change
in him. He had grown old-looking : his
shoulders were bowed ; his head drooped.
He glanced from one to the other of
them, with a shifty, cowed expression ; and
his eyes every now and then wandered
towards Ada, who was perhaps the only
person in the room who neither saw nor
looked at him. When it was over, and
Gilbert, who had been at his side through
it all, took his arm to lead him away, he
wiped the sweat from his brow, and looked
all about him, and at Gilbert, and at

Ada, with a white, scared face, and moved
uncertainly, as if he could not see.

When every one had gone, except Mr.
Dixon, Eleanor went to Ada, stooped over
her chair, and said 

*' Now, Ada, the worst is over. You
may have something to live for yet."

Ada looked at her with one of those
prolonged, vacant gazes, which seemed to
Eleanor to come from somewhere far on
the other side of the tomb, and shaking
her head, merely replied 

Let me alone now. I've done what
you wanted. I am satisfied. Next time,
I will do what / want."

CHAPTER XIV.

HOW ADA SOLVED HER PROBLEM.

It was a week after the marriage, and
during that week much business had been
accomplished, and many plans laid. Ever
since that day, a change had been perceptible
in Ada  a change which, by contrast
with her late gloom, might almost have
been called brightness. She noticed
persons and things, and once or twice
voluntarily addressed herself to others.

Gilbert had been in communication with
Eleanor, on business affairs, and it was
decided that Thorsgarth need not be sold,
if Eleanor chose to make an allowance
to her brother and to Ada, which she was

very willing to do, so long as Otho agreed
to absent himself from her neighbourhood
and that of Ada, wherever they might be.
He was ready enough to promise this.
His fear and dread seemed to have turned
into an indifference in which considerable
irritability displayed itself. But for the
strong head and hand of Gilbert keeping
him in check, it seemed as if Otho, once
secure of a subsistence, would have taken
his departure from the scene, and left
those behind him to settle his affairs as
they could, or would. This, however, he
was not permitted to do, but was kept
on the spot until everything was arranged,
the agreements drawn up and signed,  a
ceremony which took place at the Dower
House, in the presence of Otho, Eleanor,
Gilbert, Mr. Coningsby of Bradstane, Mr.
Palfreys of London, and the requisite
witnesses.

By the new arrangement Eleanor would
be practically left with only two or three

hundred a year at her disposal, instead
of the ample income of twelve or thirteen
hundred a year which she had hitherto
enjoyed. In another state of things this
might have troubled her, but now it failed
to do so in the least. Discussing the
circumstance one day with Michael she
smilingly said something about his being
tied to a pauper, to which Michael replied
in a very matter-of-course tone, that as
soon as everything was settled, and Otho
gone away, and Ada retired to her father's
house, he intended Eleanor and himself to
be married.

The sooner you enter upon your lifeof
pauperism, the better," he remarked.

Eleanor made no opposition ; her feeling
was one of thankfulness that instead
of coming in the style of the orthodox
lover, and asking her what she would like
to do, he simply told her what was going to
be done. Her trust in him was entire and
without flaw or reservation, and from this

VOL. Ill, 55

course on his part she perceived that his
trust, in her was of the same nature as hers
in him. She might have echoed the words
of the heroine in " Wuthering Heights,"
who'cried, ''Do I love HeathcHff? Why,
I am HeathcHff! " So Eleanor felt with
regard to Michael. That which they
had passed through together, the fate
which after so short an acquaintance, had
thrown them, across every obstacle, into
the closest intimacy, had developed perfection
of sympathy, and a oneness of
heart and mind, which sometimes only
comes with years of married life, sometimes
never comes at all.

On the evening of that day when the
final settlements had taken place, Gilbert
came to the Dower House, and related
how all was decided, and how, the day
after tomorrow, they were returning to
town, Otho having consented to remain
a day longer, as Gilbert had business to
settle at the mills. These arrangements,

and Ada's prospective departure, were
discussed openly and purposely in Ada's
presence on this particular evening, and
though she did not speak, she seemed to
listen attentively to what was said. By-and-by
Gilbert went away, saying that
he would see Eleanor once again before
he left Bradstane altogether, as he had
something that he particularly wished to
say to her.

During the forenoon of the following
day Michael called at the Dower House.
Ada presently left him and Eleanor alone,
but in a few minutes returned, dressed, to
the surprise of both, in bonnet and shawl,
as if she intended going out. Both looked
up in astonishment. Ada's face wore an
expression of something like hopefulness.
It was still so different from her former
face, that scarcely any one would have
recognized it who had been unacquainted
with the history of what had happened
during the last year. That is to say, it

was now no longer the face of a girl, but
the set, formed countenance of a woman
who has suffered, and whose sufferings
have hardened, not softened her. But
to-day it wore a look of expectancy, almost
of animation.

"Dr. Langstroth," said she, 'i'm going
to ask a great favour of you."

"Are you, Ada ? I am glad to hear it."
"It is, that if you've a little time to
spare, you'd walk with me through the
town. You see, you have that character
that whatever you choose to do, you may
do ; you won't lose any reputation by
behoof seen with me. I  I've been
thinking that when you and Miss Askam
are married, and I go back to father and
mother, I cannot bear the long days in
the house there, as I have done here. It
would drive me mad. But if I'm left to
myself, I shall never have the courage to
walk out alone. I thought, if you'd go
out with me this once, just down the town,

then perhaps I might not be afraid to find
my way back alone, over the old bridge
and up here again, if you do not mind"'

This was by far the longest speech Ada
had made since she had been under
Eleanor's roof, and Michael watched her
attentively as she spoke, and noticed that
she did not meet his eye.

Mind ! " he echoed, rising ; " no, I do
not mind, Ada. I am very glad to find
you disposed to make this beginning. Let
us go. Miss Askam will spare me."

*' Surely, Michael ! " said Eleanor ; but
she looked at him anxiously, for her keen
sympathy told her that he was "not
altogether easy about this decision of
Ada's. She looked at him earnestly, and
her fears were not lulled when she found
that he avoided looking at her, though he
waved his hand a little, and smiled, saying
they should not be long.

*' Oh, Michael, take care of yourself'
she whispered in his ear ; to which he

nodded, and followed Ada out of the room.
Eleanor watched them from the window,
and saw that they walked slowly.

Two minutes after they had gone, Gilbert
came in.

** You are alone," he said ; " I am not
sorry, Eleanor, for I want to say something
to you."

Yes, Gilbert," said she, and he was
surprised when she took the hand he
extended into both her own, and pressing
it almost convulsively said, rapidly, and
with a kind of passion in her tones 
"Another time I will see you alone 
whenever you like ; and if you have any
favour to ask of me, I swear I will grant
it ; but oh, Gilbert, listen to me, now.
Ada has asked Michael to take her fora
walk through the town, because she dare
not go alone. I know he thinks she is
going to try to do something dreadful,
because she is not sane, though she seems
so ; he told me so. Perhaps to kill herself,

or him. Who can answer for the fancies
of a madwoman ? I hate her sometimes."

'' Well ? " he echoed, looking down into
her upturned face, which seemed to blaze
with emotion, and feeling a spasm contract
his own heart.

Will you not follow them, Gilbert, dear
Gilbert ? For my sake, if it is not too
selfish of me to ask it. If you will not
go, I must. I cannot tell why I feel this
agony of fear, but I do, and it masters me.
To please me, Gilbert ; and I will do what
I can to please you, afterwards."

She had pressed more closely to him,
her eyes straining fixed upon his fee,
her whole frame trembling. Her agitation
communicated itself to Gilbert, like some
subtle electric thrill. Over his blue-gray
eyes there was a kind of film, and a tremor
in his voice, as he said. 

'' For your sake, my sister . . . but . . .
if anything hinders me from seeing you
again to-day, Eleanor, good-bye."

He Stooped his head, and his lips rested
for a second, no more, upon her brow.
And then she was alone again.

*****

Michael and Ada walked slowly down
the sloping square, where they saw scarcely
any one. Then, turning a corner, they
emerged in the main street of the old
town, which also sloped steeply downhill.
The sunlight was streaming gaily upon
this street ; the shops were open, and
many people were moving to and fro. In
it were situated the house of Ada's father,
her former home ; the schoolroom in which
the concert had taken place, and several
other public buildings  all clustering together,
in homely vicinity, as they do in
towns of this size. As they proceeded
down this street they, of course, attracted
notice. It was not a usual thing to see
Michael walking in a leisurely manner
down the town at that hour of the day.
And it was more than a year since his

companion had been seen in the places
where her figure had once been familiar.
People looked at them  came to their
doors in curiosity, and gazed at and after
them, and Michael knew that his companion
was trembling from head to foot.
Her face was deadly pale ; her eyes were
fixed upon the ground. But she neither
hurried, nor faltered in her step, walking
straight onwards, down the hill, and towards
the mills. When they were nearly
there, and the number of people who were
about had sensibly diminished, he spoke to
her, for the firsttime, quietly and tranquilly 

Now, Ada, shall we return ? I think
you have walked far enough."

Not that way," she replied, in a fluttering
voice. " I can't face it again. We'll
cross the footbridge, and go round the
other side, where it's quieter."

He humoured her, and they went
through the dark passage, and emerged on
the bridge.

Now," said she, " won't you turn back,
sir ? I don't want to keep you, and I can
go well enough by myself this way. It is
very quiet."

Yes, very quiet," replied he composedly.
" I will walk round with you.
My time is quite at your disposal."

She hesitated for a moment, and he saw
that she looked at him in a stealthy, sidelong
manner, of which he took no notice,
openly. Happening to turn his head, he
saw Gilbert just behind them. He wondered
how he had got there, but felt a
sense of relief in knowing that he was
present, and obeying a sign of his brother's
hand, took no notice of him.

Midway over the bridge, Ada walked
more slowly, raised her head, and began
to look about her.

"Why," she observed, 'the river is in
spate ; that's the rains up by Cauldron, I
suppose ? "

Yes," said Michael ; and, indeed, there

was a wild, if a joyous prospect around
them. April green on the woods and
grass, and April sunshine in the sky, and
the river, which was as she said, in spate,
tearing along, many feet higher than usual,
with brown, turbid waters, looking resistless
in their swiftness and their strength.

Well," she next observed, in a muffled
voice, '' it's far worse than I thought, and
not better, as Miss Askam said it would
be. It makes me sure that I'm right."

'* Right in what, Ada ? "

"In what I thought about facing the
people again."

'' It is the first step that costs. In tJhie
you will mind it less. It is well that you
tried it."

'' Perhaps it is. It is well to make sure
of things," said Ada, in a stronger voice.
But I'll never do it again. I'll never be
stared at and whispered about in that
way, any more. They would like to
throw stones at me, if they dared. If I'd

been alone, I dare say they would have
done."

'' You wrong them "

What does it matter ? " she said coldly,
as she stooped to pick a tuft of small
flowers from the grassy bank of the river.
Then she paused a moment, picking them
to pieces, and seemed absorbed in reflection
upon what she had felt in passing
through the town. Suddenly she looked
up at Michael, and said 

There's one thing I should like to say,
Dr. Langstroth. You are a man, whatever
the rest may be ; and I always knew
you were ; and it was because I always felt
you were so high above me that I used to
say such ill-natured things of you to
Roger. I knew that you saw through me,
if he didn't ; but you never betrayed me.
However, it will be all the same to you.
1 can't hurt you or help you, one way or
another  so good-bye."

With that she slipped past him, with a

darting movement which eluded his grasp,
ran down the bank of the river, stood for
one moment poised for the spring she took,
and the next instant he saw her swept Hke
a reed, many yards away, down the giant
current of the stream.

Fool that I was !" he muttered, turning
instinctively to rush down the stream, and
if possible, go beyond her, before he
plunged in, so that he could meet and
intercept her. But Gilbert met him at the
corner of the bridge. There was a curious
look in his eyes and his hand held back
Michael by the arm, with a grip in which
the latter felt powerless.

' Your way is over the bridge," he said.
Go and meet us. Eleanor sent met'

It had scarce taken two seconds to say
and do ; and Gilbert had plunged into the
stream also. The current instantly washed
both figures across to the other bank.
Michael rushed across the bridge, and
down the other side, pale ; a surging in

his ears ; his heart thumping, so that his
laboured breath could scarce come. Dimly
he saw that other forms met him at the
bridge end, and followed him ; vaguely he
heard a hum of voices behind him. He
pursued his way, panting, blind with fear.
Ever and anon the noise of the river
seemed to swell into a roar like thunder,
which quenched all other sounds. Here
and there a growth of bushes and willows
hid the waters from him ; but at last, as he
stumbled onwards, and rounded one of the
curves in that much curved stream, his
straining eyes caught sight of something 
human forms, surely  arrested by a rock
which projected midway into the current.

* He has got to shore, and brought her
with him," a thought seemed to say. *' He
is too exhausted to drag himself out. I
shall soon be with him now."

But, without knowing it, he began to
sob and sob and sob as he approached ;
and when he drew near, instead of going

swiftly to the place, he strayed around and
about it, and could not, dared not go close.
It seemed long, very long before he
could understand. Other persons, who
had seen what had happened, or part of
it, and who had seen Michael rush after
the other two, had come up, and they told
him again and again. A score of times
he heard the words repeated : '' Dead ;
both dead. No one could swim in such
a flood ! " And yet he did not grasp it.
But at last, after what seemed a long time,
it did come home to him, and he understood
that Ada had avenged herself.

CHAPTER XV.

MAGDALEN. IN VALEDICTION.

It was July of the same year, and the
time drew towards evening. The bright,
westering sun was shining into the Library
at the Red Gables. In one of the deep
window-seats, Eleanor and Michael sat
side by side, and hand in hand. It
seemed as if he had just returned from
some journey, for there were signs about
the room of a traveller's recent arrival ;
and she, it would appear, had not even
yet done bidding him welcome, her eyes
dwelling still, with undiminished light of
affection upon a face beloved. They had
been man and wife for three weeks, and

after a short ten days of honeymoon, he
had brought her home, and left her there,
while he went to London, to attend to
the Innumerable affairs connected with his
brother's business, will, and death. Ten
minutes ago he had come in, and she was
asking him for his news, which he seemed
almost unwilling to enter upon.

'' There are letters for me, I perceive,"
he said at last. '' That is from Roger.
When did it come ? "

*' This morning only."

*' Let me have it."

No. I have read it. It will keep,
because it contains good news. I wait
to know first all you have not told me.
The good news for the last."

'' I have told you almost everything,
my child. It has been a sad business ;
sad from beginning to end. I have settled
it all up  all poor Gilbert's affairs. He
was different from me ; no doubt of that,
I learnt a lesson or two."

VOL. III. 56

In what way ? "

*why, Eleanor, it is simply the old
story, that a man often seems much worse
than he is. I never for a moment realized
that / could have been in fault. I always
saw his sin so large ; it blotted out everything
else. We will talk it all over
another time. There was no difficulty in
settling his affairs ; disorder was abhorrent
to his very soul. When I think of that,
and of his painstaking, methodical, perfect
system of doing things, and then remember
my own scatterbrained practices, and remember
how young he was, too, I feel as
if now, by the light of all these other
troubles and experiences, I can understand
the temptation that beset him then, to
keep things safe  the returning prosperity
which he had built up with so much
trouble  to keep me from squandering it,
as he felt sure I should. Yes ; I can see
it. By George ! What an opinion I must
have had in those days of my own perfection

and freedom from flaw of any
kind. It is incredible."

But, Michael, it was wrong of him."

'* Yes, it was wrong of him, and as
wrong of me. Roger knew that. Roger
was very unhappy because of what I did.
We were both about as wrong as we could
be, I suppose."

Eleanor was silent. She would not
gainsay him, but she did not agree ; and
it was hardly to be expected that she
should at that stage of the proceedings.

** His will, Eleanor, will surprise you.
It was made since that Christmas when
you and he were together at Thorsgarth ;
when Magdalen and Otho became engaged.
And he has left his money rather
curiously,  half to Magdalen, in case she
marries Otho, to be settled upon her and
her children if she should have any, as
strictly as it can possibly be done ; and
half to you, in case you marry  whom, do
you suppose ? "

'not himself?" she asked, pale and
breathless.

Michael laughed.

*'No, madam, but your present husband."

'' Michael ! And what if "

"If neither of those marriages really
took place, it all came to me, except an
annuity to Magdalen of five hundred a
year."

'' To Magdalen ! "

Yes. I, too, was surprised at first.
And then I seemed to comprehend that
too. It was for the sake of old times,
when we were young together. He and
Magdalen in a cool, curious sort of way,
always understood one another ; and when
he was over here, he several times spoke
to me about her, and seemed distressed at
the idea of the great change and reverse
that had come over her. ' She is not a
high-minded woman,' he said to me once,
but she has had every hope crushed, and
has lived in a kind of tomb with that old

woman all the best of her life.' So that
was the way he took, I suppose, of expressing
his sympathy."

'' It is wonderful," said Eleanor in a
low voice, feeling humbled, puzzled, and
ashamed. This view of Magdalen's life
had never intruded itself into her mind.
And it was as if she heard a voice echoing
in the air about her, *' Judge not ! "

Yes, it is wonderful, and very humbling
to me. And to you also, he left this

nng.

He took a case from his breast-pocket,
and gave it to her. It contained a ring
set with a large pearl of unusual size*and
beauty, surrounded by brilliant, in a fine
and delicate small pattern.

'' He wished you to wear it always,"
said Michael in a low voice. " This was
in a private letter to me, half finished,
which he must have left amongst his other
papers when he came down here with
Otho, just before that wedding. He said

it was more like his idea of you than anything
he had ever seen."

Eleanor was weeping silently as Michael
placed this ring upon her hand.

Why did he think of me in that way ? "
she whispered between her tears. " It
was so wrong, so unlike the truth. It
makes me afraid. I shall always feel that
I am a renegade when I look at it."

'' It made him a great deal happier, at
any rate," said Michael gently. "And
now, Eleanor, something else. I saw
Otho while I was in town."

Yes ? " she said in a slow, reluctant
whisper.

Well, he is indeed a broken man. His
sins have come home to him, and Ada
avenged herself fearfully ; but how, do
you suppose ? "

She shook her head.

Not by her own death ; he hardly
alluded to it. That whole connection with
Ada was the merest freak. It is, as it

were, by chance alone  that awful chance
which we call Destiny  that that caprice
has had such effects for us all. It is,
through Gilbert's death, and his alone. It
sounds odd to say such a thing of the
regard of one man for another, but one
might almost say that his affection for
Gilbert has been the one love of his
life "

I know what you mean ; and it is soin
a way. Gilbert had more of his heart
and soul than any one else  even Magdalen."


'eyes, even Magdalen ; for he trifled and
played with her, and in fact, mastered her
even in coming round to her wishes ; but
Gilbert, never. It was like the love of a
dog for its master. It has knocked him
down completely ; he has no spirit left.
He said there was nothing to live for when
a fellow's friend was gone, and he gave
some dark hint as to being Gilbert's murderer.
I did not stay long with him. I

don't know what will become of him. It
was absolutely necessary that I should see
him on business ; so I saw him, and had
done with him."

'' Did he say nothing about Ada's little
child, and its death ? "

Not a word ; and I did not, either. It
seemed to me a desecration to mention
such things to him."

'' Yes. Let us not speak of him. We
cannot do anything for him. He would
not let us ; and for years to come I do not
think I could bear to look upon his face.
That is all I want to know. Let us read
Roger's letter now. He has got a great
post, and is going to take a long holiday
with us in the autumn ; and then he is
going to South America to manage a
business there for the people he is now
with."

*'Ah ! His career, that I have prophesied
for him, is beginning then," said Michael,
as he read Roger's letter with her, seated

beside her, each of them holding a leaf.
And as they sat thus, with that softened
look upon their faces which comes with
thoughts of a much-loved absent one, the
door opened, and the servant announced
Miss Wynter.

They both looked up in surprise as she
entered. She walked up to the table and
stood looking at them with a keen, searching
gaze, and her lips quivered a little as
she saw the attitude of entire trust, and
the look of peace and of rest upon both
faces. Magdalen, like the others, was in
black ; she was still clad in the deep
mourning she had been wearing for Mass
Strangforth ; perhaps in her soul she was
not sorry that circumstances allowed her
to wear a garb so well according with her
own feelings. But it struck Eleanor that
she was equipped for a longer journey
than that from Balder Hall to the Red
Gables. Her face was very pale, but there
was no abatement  there never had been

any abatement  in the pride of its expression.
Whatever Magdalen's fate, she
would always carry it, to all outward seeming,
with the stateliness of a queen who
wears her crown.

You were so absorbed, you scarcely
heard my name," she said in her clear,
rather sarcastic tones, and with a slight
cool smile. '' I am glad to find you in. I
heard that Michael was coming home today,
and I did not wish to go away without
saying good-bye."

'' You are going away ? " said Eleanor.
*' Are you going for long ? "

'' Most likely I shall never see you
again," Magdalen pursued. "It is not
probable that our paths will ever cross.
Indeed, I shall make it my object to prevent
them from doing so."

Magdalen "

But Michael, a little better acquainted
with human nature, and especially with
Magdalen's nature, than was his wife, had

already guessed, and his eyes were fixed
upon Miss Wynter's face, scrutinizingly,
but with Httle surprise.

'* I am going to London," said Magdalen.
'' I intend travelling there by the south
mail this evening. I have sent my things
on, and called to see you on my way to the
station."

'' To London " began Eleanor.

Magdalen's eyebrows contracted. She
gave a short, impatient laugh.

'' How long you are in comprehending !
I see Michael understood at once. Ah,
Michael, if you had understood me as well
seven years ago ! . . . Well, Eleanor, I am
going to Otho."

"Tooth!"

Yes, to Otho. When I promised to
marry him, I swore that when the time
came, I would follow him faithfully, no
matter how or where. He said we should
both know when it had come. It has come
now. Since he saw you in town, Michael,

I have heard from him. He has taken
some rooms for me, and I shall go and stay
there ; and as soon as I have been there
long enough, we shall be married."

Eleanor was silent at first. Then she
began, tremulously 

'' Have you thought seriously about it ?
After what has happened, he can have no
claim upon you ; and you surely do not dare
to go to him."

Dare  I dare, most certainly, go to
him, and stay with him. I am not afraid
of him. I never was. If some other
people had been as little afraid of him as I
was, perhaps he might not have made such
a hideous bungle as he has done, of his life.
But if I were afraid of him, I should go to
him all the more, after what I swore to him,
lest he should do me some hurt if I disobeyed
him."

But, Magdalen "

*' But, Eleanor !" said the other, in a
deep, stern voice. " Let me explain myself,

and then, if you fail to understand, it
will not be my fault. I am going to him
now, first because of my promise, which
meant, that when there should be nothing
prevent me from marrying him, I would
be his wife. And what is there to prevent
me now ? "

"There is himself!" cried Eleanor passionately.
" Michael, tell her  explain to
her that she must not tie "

Wait ! She has not finished yet," said
Michael.

No, I have not," Magdalen assented.
First, because of my promise to him.
You think that because himself, as you call
it, frightened and repelled you, it must, of
course, be the same with every one else.
Well, while I am about it, I will tell you
the whole truth. He has not a friend in
the world, I suppose, now that Gilbert is
gone, except me. I am in the same case.
While my poor old aunt still lived, there
was always some one who believed in me,

and thought I was an angel. There is no
one now. Himself  such as he is  loves
me, with such love as he has to give ;
clings to me, and wants me. And I  such
as I am  infinitely beneath you, I confess"
(with a mocking smile and bow), '' love him,
with what heart has not been crushed out
of me. Yes, and such as he is," she added,
raising herself before them, and looking at
them with a kind of defiance on her scornful
face  '' such as he is, I think it worth
while to go to him, and try to save him
from destruction. Perhaps I shall not
succeed. That doesn't matter. I want
something to do, and there it is, ready to
my hand. . . . And also, I shall then have
kept a promise to one man, at any rate."

Eleanor stared at her, half-fascinated,
half-repelled.

'' One word to you, Michael," added
Magdalen. " You look happy now, as I
have never seen you look before ; and I
firmly believe you will be happy. You

must have forgiven me long ago for not
having married you ; and now I should
think you join thankfulness to forgiveness.
But I wish to tell you that I know I behaved
vilely to you  not in breaking off
our engagement, but in ever making it ;
and you treated me better than most men
would treat a woman who has cheated them,
and then made a mess of her affairs. I
wronged you, and I deserve what I have
got for it. That is more than I would own
to any one else in the world. It will serve
as my wedding-present to you, Eleanor ;
there is no testimony to goodness so strong
as that which is offered by what is  rfbt
goodness. And now," she added, looking
at the clock, '' it is time for me to go. I
should like to shake hands with you both,
and wish you good-bye."

In her attitude, as she turned towards
them, there was something imposing.
There was neither softness, nor benignity,
nor true nobility  the nobility of soul, that

is  in any of her looks or gestures ; but
there was a certain still, unbending pride,
and a dauntless, unavailing gaze into the
iron eyes of misfortune which thrilled them
both. Eleanor took her hand between
both her own, and looked long, earnestly,
speechlessly into her face, saying at
last 

Magdalen, why do you delight to make
yourself out a worse woman than you
are ? Is it nothing that you have done,
to live with Miss Strangforth as you did,
and treat her so that she thought you an
angel ? nothing in what you are going
to do ? For it is' a martyrdom to which
you doom yourself, say what you please."

'' No, it isn't," said Magdalen, with a
harsh laugh, looking with a curious expression
into Eleanor's eyes. " That's why I
am not a good woman, Eleanor. It is no
martyrdom at all. I am glad, I am glad I
am going  going to get away from this
hateful place, and be married to Otho.

o

And if I had got married to Michael, long
before he ever saw you, child, I should
have been a miserable woman, and should
most likely have done something outrageous,
sooner or later. That's where
the badness comes in. Good - bye,
Michael."

'* Let me come to the train and see you
off," he said.

No, certainly not. You mean to be
kind, I know ; but I am going alone. If
I fancied you were looking after me, I
might look back, and not be so delighted
with my future as I ought."

Then, Magdalen, give it up, and stay

with " began Eleanor eagerly, as she

stepped forward with outstretched hands.
But the other had gone swiftly out of the
room, without looking back, and had closed
the door after her.

Eleanor turned to her husband, who was
looking at her. They confronted each
other for a moment or two, till she asked 

VOL. III. 57

Is she a heroine, or is she  Michael,
what is she ? "

She is Magdalen Wynter," he answered.
*' I don't know what she is ; but there is
certainly some heroine in her."

'' To marry Otho ! " murmured Eleanor.

I think she is just doing what she said
herself, going to work with the thing
nearest her hand  anything to get away
from here. And it takes the shape of
heroism, because, you know, she will never
let him sink ; at least, she will be always
struggling to keep him straight  what they
call straight," said Michael, and his voice
was not quite steady. " Magdalen always
laughed at heroism," he added.

God help her ! " said Eleanor in a low
voice.

* * * >\i

The factories by the river have now
been long disused. Most likely Michael
will some time follow the once despised
advice of honest Sir Thomas Winthrop,

and pull them down. As they stand now,
silent and quiet, footsteps echo through the
passage which leads to the bridge, and Tees
goes murmuring past the spot, telling, as it
seems to our imperfect ears, the same story
exactly that it has been telling for so many
hundred years. Whether what we call
inanimate nature stands blindly by, without
taking any impress from the scenes which
humanity acts in the arena she prepares
for them, is one of the mysteries which we
cannot solve. To us, the trees appear the
same each year, and the voice of the river
changes only with the seasons, and with
periods of drought or flood. A shriek,
once uttered, is lost, and death is the end
of all things.

Lonof letters come from Roger to the
friends at the Red Gables, telling of prosperity
and advancement, speaking of love
unchanged to them and theirs, but never
hinting at any thoughts of returning to his
native land.

Ada's child, which pined and died not
long after she did, is buried in her grave ;
and Gilbert also sleeps in Bradstane
churchyard.

As for the two who were left alone of all
this company who had been young at the
same time, the years brought changes in
their life, and ofttimes in their habitations.
But since this chronicle professes only to
deal with that part of their lives which was
played out in the Borderland where they
dwelt, it is not necessary to follow those
changes, but only to say that they still
speak of Bradstane and the Red Gables
as *home." For humane and kindly
hearts always find loves and interests ;
hopes and occupations spring thickly
around them, on every side and in every
soil ; and so it was with these two. Human
interests and hopes, keen and deep, bind
them to the old spot. There are those
there, both old and young, whom they
love, and who love them, and from whose

vicinity they would not, if they could, tear
themselves altogether. These things, and
a certain righteousness of thought and
deed in their own lives, have mercifully
dimmed and blurred the memories of one
or two tragic years, and have restored most
of its loveliness and much of its freshness
to life ; have done for their bitterer remembrances
exactly what the abundant ivy and
the gracious growth of flowers and ferns
have done for the naked grimness of the
castle ruins which stand on the cliff above
the river.

