CHAPTER I.

Underplot.

Nay, I will win my wager better yet ;
And show more sign of her obedience,
Her new-built virtue and obedience."

Shakespeare.

It was Easter-time, and a man said to his wife 
"Have you ordered the haba' for the Svneta?"
The wife, who was studying her complexion in the
glass, instead of giving out raisins, and flour, and eggs
in the store-room, as every Polish housewife is bound
to do at Easter-time, answered with a start, " No, I
was waiting till my cousin came ; I never can remember
the quantities."

I wonder when you will begin to remember the
quantities," answered the husband ; " by the time your
curls are grey, I suppose. How long have we been

 A species of cake, baked in a high and narrow shape, and
peculiar to Easter-time in Poland. This same word also signifies
grandmother, also old woman generally.

- Feast-day.

married ? Four years this summer, and I do not
believe you know kasza from barley yet."

I shall go and order the tctba at once, since you
wish it." The wife rose with flurried obedience, and
the complexion, no longer reflected in the glass,
deepened to crimson.

Her husband watched her till she had reached the
door, and then called her back. " You know, of course,
exactly how many Ictba you are to order ? "

The wife grew more flurried, and more anxious to
obey. " I forgot to count ; let me see, how many are
we ? One, two, three," she counted nervously on her
fingers, " four, five, six. I think we had six last
Easter."

We need one more than we had last Easter,"
remarked the husband.

The wife was thrown off her balance. She did not
understand why they should require one hah more
than they had last Easter; and she did not dare to
ask her husband directly.

Let me see : " she counted again. " One for you,
one for me, one for your brother, one for my cousin,
one for my aunt, and then the little one for Wandusia.
That is six, is it not ? " she suggested, humbly.

Order seven," said the husband, without changing
his position, while slowly he passed an ivory comb
through his hair, which grew up straight and thick

from his low forehead like a crest,  a serpent's crest,
some one had once remarked.

In spite of her humility, and in spite of her submissiveness,
this seventh baba was simple torture to
the curiosity of the wife. A Ictba was to be baked for
each member of the family  such was the custom 
and the family at this moment numbered exactly
six members. For whom then could this seventh
hah, this mysterious and unexplained haba be intended?
She had almost screwed up her courage to
the point of putting the question, when her husband
spoke again. He told her to come back as soon as
she had done with the raisins, and almonds, and eggs,
and flour in the store-room, as he wished her to write
a letter.

More surprise and more curiosity, mingled with a
little fear this time. Her husband very seldom asked
her to write a letter ; and when he did ask her, the
task was performed in fear and trembling ; for not the
smallest slip was allowed to pass uncensured ; each of
her school-girlish mistakes had to meet the full blast
of his withering sarcasm.

The seventh baba, and the letter to be written,
seemed to have some hidden link between them. For
whom was the hah 1 and to whom was she to
write % She speculated so hard upon these questions,
that she poured the raisins into the ground coffee by

mistake, and mixed up the coarse and the fine flour
without ever noticing it.

When she was told to whom she was to write, her
surprise increased tenfold.

But  but' she ventured in reply, " how can I do
that ? Would it not be better if you wrote instead ? "

"It is just because it would not be better, that I
intend you to write," was the answer. *'He would
not come for the sake of my letter, and he will come
for the sake of yours. There is paper, sit down at
once."

Really ? Do you mean it really ? "

Do I ever make jokes ? "

But  but, won't he think it very strange ? "

Let him think it what he likes."

And what am I to call him ? "

His name, of course," said the husband, impatiently.

And how am I to say it ? "

Any way you like  in your own words. Put ina
few pretty phrases about sisterly affection, or any
other sort of affection that you prefer. T give you
leave to be as affectionate as you like  and I shall
not look at your letter ; do you understand ? "

She understood. ' That is to say, she understood
what she was to do ; although she did not in the least
understand why she was to do it.

The letter was written, and the seventh hala was

baked, and so were many other hciba all over the
country. The flour which was weighed out, and
mixed, and put in the oven during these days before
Easter, would have been enough to sand the ground
of a moderate-sized desert; the milk which flowed in
every kitchen, like streams of white blood, might have
furnished a respectable ocean ; the eggs which were
boiled hard in pans and kettles, would handsomely
have sufficed to stone to death half a hundred martyrs.
The new-born lambs that were beginning to leap over
the new-born grass, dotting the green fields with dazzling
spots of white, and biting off the daisy buds, as
they frisked their fluffy tails, found their whiteness
and their innocence rivalled all at once by another
host of lambs that started up about this time, and
flourished their red-and-blue paper flags out of every
village-grocer's window.

But at Tarajow there was not only a grocer but a
confectioner. A confectioner who kept pink and
white cakes and real macaroons, and concerning whom
there existed a tradition that he had once attempted
ices and failed in the speculation. Easter was wont
to be a busy time for him; for many of the small
families of the place ordered their baba here to save
trouble; but this Easter somehow the trade seemed
slack. Many a time did the confectioner, standing
at his window, say to himself,  "Here is a person

coming to order his bahia or placJci for Easter-day
; " but nine times out of ten the person trudged
past, and trudged straight up the worn steps of the
apothecary's alongside ; and ten minutes later he
would trudge down again with a bottle of medicine
in his hand. After fuming over a dozen such disappointments,
the confectioner paid an inquisitive visit
to his neighbour.

What is that medicine of which you sell so much,
Jan Wronski ? " he asked, with a suspicion of irritability
in his voice. " It seems to have a better taste
than my baba and placed

It is an astringent," said Jan Wronski, dismally.


The confectioner felt much the wiser.

And is that your last remedy for hydrophobia ? "
he inquired loftily, his irritability turning to sarcasm.
But Jan Wronski was invulnerable to sarcasm. And
just then another person came in by the door with a
bottle to be filled.

How is the baba ? " asked Jan, as he took the
bottle.

The barefooted peasant-girl gave a stupid stare.
' The baba is dying," she said, in a dull and emotionless
voice. " We have been hanging out her graveclothes
to air these two days. She will be dead before

 Flat cake, stuffed with dried fruits.

Easter, and the little ones are taking it too. The
matka has sold her last coral to the Jew, and she
cannot show her face on the Swieta without them.
At the mention of the dying baba there was no sign
of feeling, or scarcely of understanding ; but at the
mention of the last coral, the homely face quivered
a little.

What is it ? " asked the awed confectioner, dropping
both sarcasm and irritability, and turning rather
pale. " It is not the fever, is it ? "

Yes, it is the fever," said Jan, corking the bottle
tight. " The fever is on us again. There, do you seethe
prohoszcz passing? What do you think he is
going to do ? "

Bless the placki and hah for Easter - day,"
answered the confectioner, with a confectioner's
instinct.

So he will," said Jan, " if they be on his way, but
there are other hah that need more blessing just
now ; baba that have not come out of your oven, or
any other ; " and Jan Wronski gave a sort of dismal
laugh at the success of his own ghastly joke, and felt
almost cheerful at sight of the confectioner's depression.

The fever ! " repeated the confectioner to himself ;
being a confectioner he was of a soft and impressionable
nature, and he shank back home, sighing at the

 Mother.  Parish priest.

VOL. 11. M

thought of SO many vainly-baked baba, and of so
many placJci in which the fruit should shrivel, waiting
vainly for buyers. He would sell them half-price,
he desperately resolved ; but why need the fever have
come just at Easter ?

No one knew why the fever should have come,
except that the winter had been a mild winter ; and
that such a winter brings its punishment in Poland.
Just as the lambs were beginning to frisk, and just
as the rough-coated foals began to trot along the
roads by the side of the cart which their mothers
drew ; and just as the blue periwinkles were setting
to weave bridal wreaths for the peasant-girls to wear,
the fever came into the place, borne upon the very
wings of the spring breeze, and tainting the gold of
the April sunshine with its vicious breath.

It took the old people first, those who should by
rights have died in winter, who could only have lived
through till spring by a mere chance. It would come
back for the young people later, no doubt. In spite of
the sunshine, in spite of the early violets, this Easter
will be a sad one for many ; for the sun will shine on
fresh grave-mounds, and the violets will be bound into
wreaths to deck them. Many an empty chair will
speak of the kind old hah who is gone, and many a
little one will have sickened and died before even it
had time to finish its Easter baba.

CHAPTER 11.

OUT OF THE GAME.

I pray thee, mark me, that a brother should
Be so perfidious."

The Tempest.

On Easter-eve, towards dusk, a hussar on horseback
was approaching Tarajow from the west. The country
on this side bore a character quite distinct from
the richly wooded hills which lay to the east. Here,
from the very gates of the town, there stretched a wide
expanse, dreary in its flatness ; a country of stunted
grass on which grew stunted willows. There was a
deserted, starved, and melancholy look about this tract
of land ; the very cows, driven here to graze, looked
thin and sad ; and the very daisies and buttercups,
called out by the April sunshine, appeared to be dwarfs
of.their race, staring upwards at the sky with pinched
faces and weak eyes.

Cutting this dreary stretch almost in two, a sluggish
stream lazily dragged its waters along. Dull and slow

and slimy was that stream ; green with floating duckweed,
black with stagnant pools. For years it had
licked its banks with sullen tongue till the willow-roots
hung bare, and the earth crumbled gently downwards.
The stream had no life, save when one of the
thin and sad cows came to the edge to drink; or when
a frog leaped from the bank to the water with a hop
and a splash ; or when a swallow on a gnat-hunt
skimmed the sleepy surface.

There was no highroad on this tract  nothing buta
footpath led through it ; the stream, running straight
across the line of the path, was bridged by a rickety
plank with a rickety handrail at one side.

Along this path the hussar was riding this Easter-eve.
He rode slowly, at a foot-pace, the reins hanging
loose on the horse's neck  so loose that the beast stole
many a bite at the willow-bushes in passing. Close
at the horse's heels a yellow setter trotted contentedly
along. The rider was alone with his horse and his
dog, for the meagre cows had been driven home from
their meagre pasture more than an hour ago. He
looked neither to the right nor the left, at the stunted
willows nor at the dwindling daisies ; his eyes were
fixed before him in a sort of dreamy abstraction

It did not seem as if he were in a hurry to reach
Tarajow ; and neither was he in a hurry, although he
was wending his way there in the mere vague hope of

finding it less dreary than the wretched village station
in which he was quartered. An Easter-eve, when
every one is cheerful, and comrades are starting for
visits home, is apt to make a lonely man feel more
lonely ; and this man was lonely, with no home where
he could go for Easter. The very church-bells, ringing
out their Easter peals, seemed to be telling him more
distinctly that he was a lonely man. So deep was his
abstraction, that he had reached the stream, and did
not notice it until the horse stood still.

He gathered up his reins and looked around him.
The plank, some paces to the right, was too narrow to
cross with safety. He knew that, for he had passed
here often before, and touching his horse with the
spur, he prepared to cross by his usual ford. The
dusk was falling fast, but he could distinctly see that
there was a figure on the bridge  a woman, with her
back towards him and her head bent downwards as
she leant over the rail, looking straight at the water.
Apparently the woman was as deeply abstracted as
the rider had been a minute ago, for the horse's footfall
on the grass was not enough to rouse her.

This ford was so rarely disturbed that the green
water-weed had ample time to spread itself luxuriantly
in the intervals. The spot was thick with weed just
now, and it was with a fearful and hesitating step that
the horse lifted its feet through the slippery slime

which wound itself and clung about its hoofs. The
centre of the stream was reached, and the hateful green
stuff had risen to its knees, when the horse all at once
gave a start and a plunge, sending a rain of green
water over its rider's head. There had been a splash
hard by, alongside of the bridge  a much louder splash
than the hopping of a frog could make ; it sounded
like the fall of a heavy stone. Whatever it was, it
was enough to frighten a horse in the dusk ; and the
scared animal snorted and bounded till the green water
splashed not only over the rider, but also over the
woman on the bridge. She turned at the noise, and
for the first time caught sight of these figures on the
scene.

I beg your pardon," said the rider, as he spurred
his horse to the opposite bank and reached it. " I
have frightened you, I am afraid, and splashed you as
well. Down, Trappisto ! " as the yellow dog, stopping
half-way in the water, threw up its head and gave vent
to a few piercing and inimical barks.

That's all wrong," said the woman on the bridge ;
I frightened your horse."

It was a frog, I think, that frightened him or a
falling stone."

That's all wrong again ; the stone did not fall ; it
was thrown, and I threw it."

"You were throwing it at a frog, I suppose," suggested

the rider, who could think of no other probable
motive which could induce a young woman to stand
on a lonely bridge at nightfall and throw stones into
the water.

At a frog ? Not a bit of it ; I was throwing it in
because I like the good thumping splash it makes.
I always throw stones whenever I come here."

The rider, as he drew up his horse beside the bridge,
began to feel amused.

"You like the sound of a splash?"

I like the sound of anything that makes a noise.
I am desperately fond of noises. Aren't you ? "

"I am afraid that I am not desperately fond of
them," said the rider, feeling more amused. " I have
plenty of them in my profession."

"Ah yes, you are an officer." She looked at him
more narrowly through the dusk ; and he, at the same
time, looked more narrowly at her. What she saw
was a handsome young hussar captain  for in spite of
the dusk she could catch the three stars glimmering
on his collar ; and what he saw was a young woman,
short and plump, with fine black eyes, wavy black
hair, and a brilliant, if somewhat coarse, complexion.
She leant at the end of the bridge, with her back
against the rail now, and she appeared quite open to
further conversation. He had led a silent and a solitary
life lately, and even this adventure was a little

change. Moreover, there was something about this
lonely spot which seemed to create a sympathy between
these two lonely people. Tor she seemed to be
as lonely as he was ; why else should she have come
out here while the Tarajow bells were ringing this
festive peal, and the church was crowded for the service
of the ZmartivTjcliwstanie ? -

So you find it more amusing to throw stones into
the water than to go to church with the rest of the
Tarajow people ? " remarked the hussar, as he reined
in his impatient horse. The yellow dog  more green
than yellow by this time  seeing that his master was
bent upon this foolish and unnecessary halt, sat down
on the bank in shivering resignation, and faintly
wagged his tail, as much as to say that he was able
to resign himself with a cheerful spirit, if duty so
demanded it.

And you find it more amusing to ride about ? " said
the young woman, who all this time was gazing at
him a great deal more narrowly than he was gazing:
at her. " Is this the way you intend to spend your
Easter''

I have nowhere to go to at Easter," answered the
rider, with a smile, and a sigh on the back of the smile.

You have a brother you might go to," said the
young woman.

 Resurrection.

The rider started and flushed. " How do you know
that ? " he asked quickly, perhaps a trifle proudly.

"Because I know who you are," was the answer.
You are Kazimir Bielinski."

That is wonderfully well guessed. I am Kazimir
Bielinski."

It is not guessed ; I recognised you."

Have you ever seen me before ? "

Never ; but I know you by a likeness ; " and to
herself the woman added, " he is stronger and taller.
but it is the same face."

The hussar felt more amused than ever. " What
else do you know about me ? " he inquired.

I know that you got a letter this morning."

There is a wrong guess ; I have not had a letter fora
week."

Well, you will get it to-night then ; I forgot that
the post takes three days for three miles."

How do you happen to know this ? "

Because I posted the letter."

You did ! " The rider looked sorely puzzled.
Most gladly would he have put to the black-haired
woman the question, " Who the dickens are you ? "
only that it would have seemed to him rude. " I beg
your pardon ; but is the letter from you, then ? "

'' No ; I don't know from whom the letter is ; but
it comes from Wowasulka."

Again the rider flushed, and bit his lip this time,
and the young woman gazed at him very curiously
through the dusk.

I don't know of any one at Wowasulka who could
write to me," reflected the rider,  "except Marcin."
He did not notice that he had said it aloud until the
woman's answer startled him.

No, the letter is not from Marcin," she said,
abruptly.

Certainly she was a very strange young woman, he
considered; and before he had recovered from this
fresh shock of surprise, the young woman proved herself
to be stranger still.

"You have been here in garrison all winter," she
observed, picking up a large stone from the bank and
flinging it right into the centre of a pool.

The regiment came to Poland last autumn," said
Kazimir, more and more puzzled by her manner.

And you have kept very clear of Wowasulka, have
you not ? " She flung a handful of gravel after the
stone.

Was he to take offence, or was he to go on being
amused at this strange frankness ? Kazimir asked
himself. He decided on the latter course.

"I have not been there lately," he answered,
evasively. She shrugged her shoulders and laughed.

You're not particularly fond of your brother, I

fancy ? neither am I, for the matter of that  of one of
your brothers, that is to say,  I can't bear men who
move so quietly. Well, I should advise you to go
home and read your letter. I daresay there's something
about it in there."

And you are sure it is a real letter,  not a myth
or a hoax ? "

It may be a hoax ; but I know it isn't a myth.
They gave it me to post when I was up at the house
yesterday with some medicine."

There is nobody ill there ? " asked Kazimir, quickly.

The little girl is ill,  cutting her teeth, I heard."

And you do not know from whom the letter is ? "

"Not I; go home and see for yourself; the letter
must be there by this time, unless the postman is lying
drunk in a ditch, which he very often is, for two days
at a time. That is your way, isn't it .? " and she pointed
back across the water. "Do you often ride this path ? "

Yes ; it is my short cut to Tarajow."

Good-night, then ; perhaps I shall see you again, 
either here or elsewhere. You were very civil to me,
you know, about the splashing and the dog ; " and the
young woman looked at him approvingly. " You are
just the sort of man of whom one would not mind
asking a favour, if one needed it."

Thank you," said Kazimir, laughing. " Goodnight."
And he turned his horse and rode at the ford

again, for he had no more thought of going to Tarajow
that evening.

As he reached the further bank, he heard the woman's
voice calling after him 

You are wondering who I am, are you not ? I am
the apothecary's daughter. Good-night."

The apothecary's daughter ! A far-off recollection
grew alive in Kazimir's mind. He knew that there
had been an apothecary's daughter, a pretty apothecary's
daughter, or one at least whom Marcin had found
pretty four years ago ; and this apothecary's daughter
certainly was pretty, even though she had lost her
first short-lived freshness. But Kazimir did not
speculate further on the subject just now, for his
thoughts were all bent on the letter which awaited
him at home. He started home at a much brisker
pace than that at which he had come here, and, trotting
along the pathway between the willows, he could
still hear behind him the continued splash, splash, of
the stones in the water; for the apothecary's daughter
had apparently resumed her occupation on the bridge.

Kazimir's depression and loneliness had given way
all at once to an excited curiosity. It was not far
from four years now that he had left home last, and
it was three years since any communication had passed
between him and his brother. Not long after Lu can's
marriage, when the brothers had parted in coolness.

there arose a serious quarrel between them, the
effects of which had lasted till now. The breach
itself had come about in the following manner.
Month after month slipped by since the wedding,
and Kazimir heard no word further of the twelve
thousand florins, which was to be the price of that
paper signed at Verona on the same day as the Villa-franca
peace. At first this silence left him indifferent
; but by degrees it began to surprise and alarm
him. Attacked by the exhortations of the Auditor,
he realised at last that those twelve thousand florins
were the sum of his possessions. Urged on by the
same indefatigable mentor, he wrote to Lucyan, and
received a politely evasive assurance of payment to
follow. The payment did not follow. Kazimir waited
another month, and then, under the Auditor's spur,
wrote again more urgently. After the lapse of a few
weeks, he received one thousand florins m payment.
Some time after that the one thousand florins were
followed by a small riding-horse. "The season has
been such an unfruitful one," wrote Lucyan, that
ready money is out of the question, so I send you
your second thousand in the shape of a horse."

It was a very pretty little horse, with a flowing
mane and a long tail, but it was a great deal too small
for Kazimir to ride, and he sold it next day for five
hundred florins  the highest price he could get  to a

lady who was setting up a pony-carriage. This horse,
and more particularly its stature, finally brought
matters to a crisis. Under the good-humoured taunts
of his comrades, and foremost of Lohonzy, who made
a point of inquiring every day whether he expected
any more ponies from Poland, Kazimir awoke to the
fact that his younger brother was making a fool of
him. His blood was up from that moment, and
instead of a letter of thanks for the pretty horse,
Lucyan received a somewhat violent epistle, in which
Kazimir demanded point-blank to know what his
brother's intentions were. " I might insist if I
chose," he wrote, remembering that the transaction
between them was to be, after all, but a matter of
form,  "I might insist upon Wowasulka being sold
and my portion being paid out, but I do not wish
to push you to extremes." The violent epistle was
answered by a cool one, in which, however, it appeared
that the matter of form had not been a matter
of form at all, but a matter of great reality ; that
Wowasulka belonged in fact, as well as on paper, to
Lucyan, and to him alone. There followed a stormy
correspondence, in which Kazimir found himself
foiled and baffled at every point, and the upshot of
which was that Lucyan offered his brother five
thousand florins in place of twelve, declaring his
utter inability to raise more off the estate. " This is

my last word," said the letter, " and all I can do for
you. If you are not satisfied, your way is clear : goto
law. There is the paper of our agreement to put
up against me, so the chances are good on your side.
In about four or five years' time you might hope fora
decision, and perhaps you may then gain five hundred
florins more than I now offer you. I daresay
that you will be glad of this opportunity of being so
speedily revenged upon me, and upon /ler."

Kazimir was pale with rage when he folded up this
letter ; and the Auditor, seeing the strange whiteness
of his face, asked him what was wrong. Kazimir told
him of his brother's proposal, and the Auditor chuckled
and cheerfully rubbed his hands. " A fine case," he
murmured  " a very pretty case indeed. Don't you
think so ? "

I do not think so," said Kazimir.

Why, of what are you afraid ? He cannot deny
the paper. Just leave the matter to me, and see if
you don't get your rights."

I do not intend to try," said Kazimir, tearing his
brother's letter to shreds.

The Auditor very nearly rolled off his chair in
surprise. "You are joking, Bielinski, are you not?
Be so kind as to say that you are joking. Let me
hear you say that again. What is it you do not intend
to do ? "

I am not going to law," said Kazimir, doggedly.

The Auditor stormed, remonstrated, preached and
threatened, all in vain ; and finally left the room ina
passion, loudly declaring that he washed his hands of
this young scatterbrain now and for ever. And Kashmir,
when the door had slammed shut and he was
alone, threw himself on a seat, covering his face with
his hands. Family pride was very strong in him, but
family pride alone might not have sufficed to keep
him to his determination. It was the last word of
Lucyan's letter that had clenched it. The unbearable
thought of being at enmity with her, of appearing
perhaps to be striving for revenge on Iter.

He understood now, and saw distinctly that his
brother had but used him as an instrument, and that
he was a fool for his confidence and his trust ; but
just this thought of wounded pride made him seal his
lips on the subject henceforth. If he had been a fool,
he would at least bear the effects of his folly in
silence. It is a great mistake to pitch one's standard
of human nature too high  people disappoint you, by
falling short of it ; whereas if you can pitch it low,
they surprise you by surpassing it. We have no right
to expect that all men should be honourable, and all
women true. Kazimir was only deservedly punished
for his folly. Never from that day forth had he
touched upon the subject, even to the Auditor; but

neither from that day had the Auditor been the same
to him as in the former time.

The breach between the brothers had been complete
thenceforward, and all communication ceased. Not
many months after the wedding, Bogumil had succumbed
to a second stroke of paralysis : of this Kazimir
had been informed, and he had heard as well of the birth
of a child. Marcin, he knew, had continued to live
at Wowasulka ; boarded, clothed, and fed by Lucyan,
dio never gave him any trouble about account-books
or reckonings, but kindly kept all his money for him.
Never, perhaps, had an arrangement existed which
was so entirely satisfactory to both parties concerned.
It was only in the past autumn that Kazimir found
himself with his regiment transferred to Poland. He
was within a few miles of home now ; but he made
no attempt at renewing broken ties. He heard his
brother mentioned frequently, and mentioned always
with respect, and a certain sort of admiration. " Are
you the brother of Bielinski of Wowasulka ? " he had
frequently been asked. " A lucky man Bielinski ;
quite at the top of the tree ; has just been chosen
Marszalek ; immense position, immense influence ;
enlarged his estate, improved it wonderfully ; gives
splendid entertainments ; has a beautiful wife ; the
first man in the country now ! " All this Kazimir
heard, and wondered to hear. Once only in the course

VOL. II. N

of the last winter, when galloping down a snowy road,
had he met his brother face to face. A sledge had
passed him close, and in the occupant, though muffled
in fur to his ears, he had recognised Lucyan. Their
eyes had met for a moment, but both were going fast ;
and that look of mutual recognition had been no more
than a flash. Once again after that, Kazimir had
caught sight of the sledge, but at a distance. He
could see that there was a lady in it, for he caught
the flutter of a veil ; and this time he had turned his
horse and ridden straight away in an opposite direction,
as though he were riding for his very life. He
had become almost used to the thought that the breach
was to be a lifelong breach ; and yet, at the news that
a letter from Wowasulka lay waiting for him at home,
curiosity and excitement came to life at once.

By good luck the postman had not chosen this day
for going to sleep in a ditch, so the letter really was
waiting for him at home. It was in a writing quite
unknown to him ; a weak and meaningless writing,
it struck him in the first moment  but in the next,
he thought differently. The writing, from weak and
meaningless, became all at once graceful and feminine :
for he had opened the envelope, and the name signed
at the bottom of the page was " Xenia." He trembled
so at that sight that the paper shook in his hands.
Wild possibilities rose up and tortured him, for lie

could not imagine the reason of this letter. Perhaps
she wanted his help. Lucyan had ill-used her, and
she had fled from him. Kazimir's imagination was on
fire in a moment, and burning so hotly, that his calmness
was scarcely equal to the task of reading the
page. Lucyan had not ill-used her, it seemed, nor
had she fled from him. Kazimir had pitched his
expectations a great deal too high. She began by
calling him " My dear brother Kazimir," and she went
on to say that he would, no doubt, be very much surprised
to hear from her, but that she hoped, really
hoped very much, that it would not be a disagreeable
surprise. " We heard several months ago," the pretty
smooth writing ran on, " that you had come to Poland,
and we have been expecting every day that you would
come and see us. It was very unkind of you to stay
away, and I hope you will never do it again. You
might have guessed that I wanted to see you after
such a long time, and I have never yet shown you my
little Wandusia. Every one says she will be just like
me ; I wonder whether you will find it so. I am
afraid you have quite forgotten us all, and never care
to think of me at all. If you want to show that it is
not true, you must come and spend the Easter-week
with us : I know that Lucyan is very anxious for it. I
think that I shall bake a fresh hdba for you, all by
myself, to reward you if you come. Lucyan says," 

but the last two words were stroked out, and a new
line begun.

Of course, if you are really not able to forget the
quarrel with Lucyan, it would be better if you did not
come ; but it would make me very unhappy to think
that I should be the cause. I am quite sure that you
will never say a word about the disagreeable things
that are past, but that you will come, as I ask you; to
make our quiet family Easter more cheerful."

Angel of goodness ! " cried Kazimir, as he read ;
she cannot bear to see the breach between us ; she
cannot rest without trying to turn enemies into
friends."

He was deeply and strangely moved by this letter.
His own emotion filled him with wondering surprise.
It was four years nearly since he had seen her last,
and he had struggled for calmness until he thought he
had gained it. After the first agony of such a disappointment,
there follows a period of dull suffering,
less keen but more dreary ; and on that again, there
follows calmness, or what passes for calmness as long
as it meets with no shock. Even a very small stone
is enough to break the calmness of a pool of water.
Xenia's letter might be a very small stone indeed, but
it had ruffled the quiet of Kazimir's mind. It entangled
him in doubts and questions. Should he go ?
Should he stay? Should he grasp the olive-branch

held out to him, or should he thrust it back ? What !
and with the olive-branch thrust back the delicate
hand which held it out ? Surely such a course would
be brutal. However little he might wish for Lucyan's
friendship, it would be wrong to deprive that angel of
the reward of the good work which she had set herself
to do.

Perhaps conscience whispered faintly, " Do not go ;
it is not safe ; " but pride cried out louder, " Everything
is safe to a strong man. What is there to fear ? Because
you loved her four years ago, you need not love
her now." And there were many other things which
stood up on this second side. The dreariness of the
long winter, the loneliness of half an hour ago, the
brightness of the prospect offered him, the Easter-bells
still ringing in his ears ; they all spoke for the second
side,  and Kazimir decided to go.

Chapter III.

LUCYAN PLAYS HEARTS.

Time Danaos, et dona fermented "

Virgil.

When Kaziinir started for Wowasulka on Easter-monday
morning, his sensations were varied and contradictory.
He felt a little uneasy, more curious, and
very generous. The nearer he drew to Wowasulka,
the more did his own conduct strike him as truly
magnanimous. He was going freely to forgive the
brother who had so gravely offended him, and this
merely because a pretty little childish note had asked
him to do so. He hoped only that the quiet family
Easter was not going to be combined with a solemn
family reconciliation ; he trusted that he was not going
to be formally asked for his forgiveness, which he
greatly preferred to give tacitly. The meeting would
be a painful one to Xenia. For her sake he wished it
over. Would she colour as vividly as she had coloured

that day on the eve of the wedding, when he had come
upon the group in the forest ? What would she be
doing when first he should see her to-day ? Perhaps
he would not see her ; for Kazimir just now remembered
the words of the apothecary's daughter, and fell
to drawing pictures in his mind of Xenia, as a pale
and anxious mother, keeping watch by the side of her
sick child.

He was on Wowasulka ground by this time, and
curiously he looked about him. Surprise began to
grow up in him at what he saw. Every spot that
brought recognition brought also a feeling of strangeness.
There were new roads where there had been
none before ; there were well-kept roads where there
had been bad ones. What had been small and pinched
looked large and well-to-do. These signs of an improved
fortune showed more distinctly with every step towards
the house. They culminated in Lucyan's garden ; for
here there burst upon Kazimir's sight a large and
brilliant conservatory, flashing back the April sunshine
from each of its polished panes, while the modest
flower-beds of four years ago were replaced by elaborately
planned borders, bright with purple and yellow
crocuses ; the stony and once bare slope, which swelled
towards the forest, was now clothed with flowering
shrubs, well tended, and massed with a care which
betrayed a loving and masterly eye ; while every rock,

tall or flat, sharp or round, wore a flowing and luxurious
robe of green ivy.

In spite of the consciousness of his magnanimity,
there fell upon Kazimir a strange trepidation as he
dismounted at the door. Before he had left the saddle,
a hum of voices struck on his ear ; men's voices and
women's voices, and laughter mingled with the clink
of glasses and plates. The quiet family Easter did not
appear to him as so very quiet after all.

The dining-room door stood open, and Kazimir found
his way in unannounced. There were over fifteen people
in the room, most of them gentlemen in dress-coats
: there was a long table, literally loaded with
dishes, groaning under the weight of hams and eggs, of
cold sucking pigs and cakes; and round this table,
some sitting, some standing, the company were variously
grouped. Almost every gentleman was either
raising a full liqueur-glass to his lips, or putting down
an empty liqueur-glass on the table, or clinking his
liqueur-glass against another liqueur-glass held towards
him. Those who did not hold a glass, held an egg,  for
Polish etiquette demands that, at the Easter Sviezone,
every gentleman should drink a glass of wodki with
the host, and crack a hard-boiled egg with the hostess.
And this, at the present moment, every one was engaged
in doing, amid much laughter and gaiety.

Kazimir saw none of this at all, or saw it but vaguely.

All that was distinct to him was Xenia, standing at the
further end of the room with a red egg in her hand,
which she laughingly held towards the gentleman
before her. Her rich blue-silk dress trailed to the
ground, heavy with lace and elaborate trimmings ;
gold bracelets flashed upon her wrists, and through
her chestnut hair a blue ribbon wound in and out, to
flutter at her neck.

This picture only did Kazimir see, as he paused in
the doorway, not noticing even the hush in the hum
of voices which greeted his appearance. But Xenia
noticed the hush, and, turning her head, saw Kazimir.
Instantly her raised hand was dropped, leaving the egg
unchecked ; and with a smile breaking over her face 
but not the vivid blush of four years ago  she came
towards him down the room.

You have come, after all ; I am so glad ! How
good of you ! Then you got my letter. Lucyan said
you would not come ; but I knew you would." All
this time the smile of welcome was on her face, and
her hand was held towards him, waiting to be shaken,
or perhaps kissed, according to Polish custom ; though
in his first bewilderment he did not see it. She raised
the other again, laughing,  the one which held the
egg. " You must crack an egg with me, you know ;
that is the first thing. We must crack an egg before
we say another word. I have never cracked an egg

with you ; for you went away before Easter that time,
you know."

The egg was cracked ; and Kazimir, still rather
dazed, found himself, in another minute, shaking hands
with everybody around  with his brother Lucyan
amongst others  being introduced to strange people,
and reintroduced to former acquaintances.

I do not know whether you remember my brother
Kazimir," said Lucyan, leading him up to an elderly
lady, whose gold-rimmed eye-glass gave him somehow
a chill shock of recognition. That gold-rimmed eyeglass
would always seem to be mixed up with the
most miserable moment of his life.

I remember your brother Kazimir very well,"
answered a cracked voice, at the sound of which a
second chill shock touched Kazimir. " I remember
him most remarkably well ; " and the owner of the
cracked voice and the gold-rimmed eye-glass gave a
visible shudder, as if at some alarming recollection.
I saw him at the time of "

He has come back," said Lucyan, emphatically ;
as emphatically as though the words were to convey
a warning to the elderly lady. The elderly lady apparently
understood the warning. With a visible
effort she stretched out three frail fingers towards the
returned brother, and with a visible effort she conjured
up an hysterical smile to her face.

Ah, well, SO you have returned ; it must be a
great comfort to your excellent brother."

I don't know," said Kazimir, somewhat staggered.
Ever since his entrance the conversation and the
laughter had been hushed ; and at the moment when
the elderly lady addressed him, a silence had fallen on
the guests. Every liqueur-glass and every egg was
arrested in the air ; every fan stopped its rattling, and
every face was turned towards this side of the room,
as though to watch some interesting scene. The
silence, the poised liqueur-glasses, the faces turned
this way, were alike incomprehensible to Kazimir.
What this interesting scene was, he alone of all the
guests was unable to imagine ; but with a vague and
uneasy suspicion, he began to guess that he was the
chief actor in that scene. Why was he made thus into
the central point of the entertainment? Why had
every one pressed his hand so warmly, and looked at
him so benevolently ? He had seen tears of emotion
in a grey-haired gentleman's eyes ; what could they
mean?

A great comfort," resumed the elderly lady, amidst
the impressive silence,  " a very great comfort to your
excellent brother, as well as to all your relations."

I am sure I hope so," said Kazimir, laughing, in
hope of throwing off this undefined solemnity which
oppressed him ; and he looked around him for a response

to his laughter  but no response came. He
met the same looks as before,  as benevolent as before,
and as kind,  but to his laughter there was no answer
except gravity. The occasion was evidently considered
to be far above laughter. He looked from one face to
the other, and his own laugh died out ; he looked at
the grey-haired gentleman last, and saw that the tears
of emotion which he had seen shining were prepared
to fall in a minute more.

Four years is a long time,  a very long time indeed,"
the cracked voice was saying ; and the tone
seemed to convey a sort of reproach to him for the
length of time,  a rebuke for the scale on which it
had pleased him to model these four years.

Yes ; the regiment has had plenty of changes since
then," said Kazimir, not daring to laugh again, or even
to smile, but trying nevertheless to talk lightly. " Italy
first, then Vienna, then "

The elderly lady moved up her two hands quickly,
and shut both her eyes. " We need not talk of that''
she exclaimed, with a nervous shudder, as though the
subject were too painful to be touched upon. " We are
not pressing to know where you have been, or what
you may have been doing, these four years. Let bygones
be bygones."

"By all means," broke in Lucyan's voice at this

juncture ; " but we must hear of Kazimir's adventures
another time."

The elderly lady dropped her hands, opened her
eyes, and shook her head at the speaker, with a sort
of tender reproof. "Don't let your generosity runaway
with you," that look and that shake of the head
seemed to say; "it is better that he should see things
as they are."

Once more the cracked voice was raised : " Yes ; ah,
well, let bygones be bygones ; many a fresh leaf is
turned over at Easter-time. We have every  hope ; "
she hesitated before the word " hope," as though the
expression were almost too strong to be candidly used ;
every  hope for favourable changes, now that you
have come back." The " favourable changes " were
unmistakably the climax of the speech. Again the
three frail fingers were stretched towards him, and
again the hysterical smile was conjured ujd to beam
upon him.

But Kazimir did not take the fingers this time, for
the truth had flashed upon him. He had wondered
what was the part he was supposed to be playing,
now he wondered no longer : he saw that his part was
that of the prodigal son. The benevolence and the
solemn hush, and even the emotional tears were fully
explained now. They meant it well by him; for

though he had kept away so long from the family
roof, and though his past was too painful a subject to
be publicly mentioned, and though he had wallowed
in the mire of vice for four years past, they had all
opened their arms to receive him now. They had not
indeed put a gold ring on his finger; they had not
offered him gold in 'that or in any other shape ; but
they had bidden the guests, and decked their table, and
killed the fatted calf, to take from his mouth the taste
of the unclean husks ; for it was Easter-time, and the
sun was shining brightly outside, and mankind was
at peace, one with the other; and he was to be forgiven
for everything that he had not done.

The first wild impulse which possessed him was to
spoil the end of the parable by turning where he
stood, and declaring into the very faces of the guests
that he would have none of the fatted calf, for that he
did not repent his ways. He who had come here to
forgive, was he to stand thus meekly and be forgiven ?

It was not to be borne ; the wild fierce words of
denial were all but bursting from his lips, when a soft
hand was laid on his arm, and a soft voice whispered :

You are tired with your ride, are you not ? And
you have eaten nothing; will you have veal-pie or
ham?"

Fortunately for Kazimir's peace of mind, he had not
perceived the sign made by the husband, and obeyed

by the wife. In that touch on his arm, and that
whisper beside him, he saw nothing but a spontaneous
impulse of most charming hospitality ; it fell like oil
upon the waters of his wrath.

Ham, if you please," came quite meekly from his
lips, instead of the fierce words of denial which had
been burning there in the same minute ; and the
tamed prodigal allowed himself to be led to the table
to a further end where there were no <:ruests lingering
 and looked on submissively while his hostess
helped him to a great deal more ham than he could
possibly eat.

The worst moment for Kazimir was now over ; but
the feeling of the prodigal left its shadow upon him.
He was always finding himself in the best place  by
Xenia, of course  and always getting helped to the
best bits,  at neither of which favours it was possible
to take offence. Everything which he ate, whether it
was sweet, sour, or peppered, tasted to him like fatted
calf; and every guest wore the exact expression which
he had always imagined to have been worn by the
friends of the prodigal's father, who were called together
to rejoice with him, because he that was lost
had been found again. Hour after hour of the forenoon
passed ; the first guests left to make another
station in their Easter-pilgrimage round the country,
and new guests arrived, fresh from their last station.

And each guest, whether arriving or departing, whether
young or old, whether man or woman, seemed equally
determined to forgive him for some vague, unexplained,
undefined, yet grievous harm that he had done ; and
all looked at Kazimir with the same eyes, and seemed
only to stop short of patting him on the back, and
saying heartily, " Cheer up ! You are to have another
chance of regeneration ! " Even the sucking-pigs on
the table, with the juicy lemon between their teeth,
seemed to grin at him forgivingly each time he passed :
the baba, decking the board like miniature haystacks,
squinted and winked at him with well-meaning
raisin-eyes, as much as to say, that though they
knew all about it, they did not mean to rake up old
wrongs ; for that it was Easter-time, and many a new
leaf was to be turned over now.

Fifty times did Kazimir repent having come hereto
walk blindfolded into this benevolent trap, and
fifty times was he mollified by a word or a look of his
hostess into repenting his repentance. If he did not
stand up and deny it all, so he told himself, it was
only for the sake of not annoying Xenia. It did not
occur to him, that even were he to do so, he would not
be believed ; that he would be regarded simply as an
unrepentant prodigal instead of a repentant one. For
he forgot that his brother was the rich Bielinski and
he the poor Bielinski ; that Lucyan was the chief

personage and Marszalek of the country, while he was
a penniless hussar, and that therefore his brother
would be right and he would be wrong. No reason
as logical as this induced Kazimir to hold his tongue ;
he was silent only from the fear of seeing a cloud rise
to that pearly-white brow. What was irritating in the
others was soothing in her. There was no exception
to be made to her manner as hostess. That shrinking
shyness, those childishly appealing looks which
Kazimir had known so well, were gone now, and
replaced by a greater assurance of mien, by a fuller
gaze and a more conscious gait. The quick blushes of
seventeen, and that bashful lowering of long lashes,
were gone too. Perhaps, had Kazimir been calmer, he
might have missed them ; but he was far from calm.
He had come here in some curiosity, wondering
whether he were cured or not ; and the first glance
of her eyes gave him his answer ; the first touch of
her hand told him that he was not cured  that four
years had done nothing to heal the old wound.

She had changed, it is true ; not palpably, nor distinctly,
nor in any way which could be put into words,
and yet she had changed ; but it was a change
which only made her more beautiful. She had
matured and developed ; what had been promise at
seventeen, was fulfilment at twenty - one ; what had
then been in bud was now in flower. And who

VOL. II.

does not prefer the flower to the bud, even though
the dew may be a little brushed from off the perfect
blossom ?

Kazimir had never seen her so beautiful, nor had
he ever seen her beauty set off to such advantage by
dress. The rich silk, and creamy laces, and twinkling
gold of her ornaments, gave to the young matron a
brilliant frame which the young girl had never had.

How it came about that Kazimir found himself
constantly at Xenia's side, he took no trouble to
analyse. He saw none of the manoeuvres, and signals,
and glances by which Lucyan, from the other
end of the room, directed his wife's movements. It
was from Xenia that he got all the news of the family.
Where was Marcin ? Oh, Marcin always kept out of
the way of visitors ; he was in his room, no doubt,
possibly in his bed ; he seldom took the trouble of
dressing himself completely, for he had got so strange
and limp and dreamy these last years. And aunt
Kobertine ? Yes, aunt Kobertine lived with them
also ; but she always went away for a few days at
Christmas and Easter-time, so as to avoid any family
gathering; she found the place too cheerful at such
times, " and she finds that I am not grave enough,"
added Xenia, simply; " she says that I am too light for
her taste. But I shall be so glad when she comes
back, for she takes charge of the keys and everything."

"And Vizia, what had become of her? Had she
married ? " inquired Kizimir.

Married ? Oh no," said Xenia, with a little laugh ;
Vizia says she will never marry, and I suppose she
will not ; she is not at all pretty, you know. Everybody
wishes so that she would not go on as she is doing."

Has she been doing anything very dreadful ? "
asked Kazimir, wondering whether the prodigal son
had found a fellow-sinner in a prodigal daughter.

Well, it is rather dreadful," said Xenia, seriously.
She insists on living quite alone at Lodniki, and
managing the farm by herself. She says she does
not need any protection ; but she is not so old after
all, just twenty-six now, and everybody was so dreadfully
shocked. We wanted her to sell the place and
live with us, but she would not. Lucyan says that
he cannot bear strong-minded women ; I don't think
any men do, do they ? "

Kazimir answered that of course no man ever did,
and inquired, for civility's sake, how Yizia prospered
with her farm.

Not very well, I think," said Xenia. " I don't understand
about that sort of thing at all, but Lucyan says
she is so obstinate, and will not take any advice, and
my uncle left a great many debts to the Jews. Lucyan
says that if it had not been for the railway she would
have been forced to sell Lodniki."

Kazimir had heard the railway much spoken of this
winter ; its speedy construction was a common topic
of conversation now. " So the railway is really going
to be built, is it ? What a pity your poor uncle did
not live to see his dream fulfilled ! "

Yes ; and they have put up white posts in a row
to show where they mean to build it ; but I think they
have not quite made up their minds yet. It is meant
to go all through the Lodniki ground ; and Vizia looks
at the white posts every morning from the window,
and calls them her white posts, for she says they will
make her rich. 1 told her that I could not bear
having the noise and the smoke so close to the house.
I am sure it would give me a headache; but Vizia is
so strong, she never has headaches."

And is she spending Easter all alone at Lodniki ? "

Xenia looked at him in surprise. " Oh no, she is
here in the house ; she came over as soon as she heard
that Wandusia was ill,  did not I tell you that she
was cutting her teeth ? Vizia is taking care of her
now."

To be shire." The sick child had entirely vanished
from Kazimir's memory, and recurred to it only at
this moment ; and now only he noticed that the
pictures he had drawn of the pale and anxious
mother had been replaced by a brighter and certainly
more beautiful reality.

"Lucyan won't let me sit beside Wandusia for
long," went on Xenia, with a charming pout; "he
says it makes me look pale. My nerves are rather
weak, you know. I could not bear to look on when
they lanced Wandusia's gums  I ran away out of the
room, and stopped my ears ; but Vizia has such strong
nerves, she stayed in the room and she held Wandusia
the whole time, although the poor darling screamed
fearfully. I don't understand how one can do that
when one has any feeling. Yizia never had much
feeling in that way. I remember long ago, when we
were children, we once found a nest full of young
birds on the ground, which had been blown off a high
tree in the storm. One of them was quite dead, and
the others were all bleeding and crushed. Vizia
wanted to have them all killed at once  she said it
would put them out of pain ; but I cried and begged
so hard that I was allowed to take them home."

And did they get quite tame ? " asked Kazimir.

Well," said Xenia, candidly, " they had not time,
you know, because I forgot to feed them, and they
died a few days after. But I cried dreadfully about
it," she added in apology ; and certainly those tears
must have quite made up to the little birds for their
untimely end.

While Xenia conversed with her brother-in-law
after this sisterly fashion, she had many times been

interrupted by guests departing, whom she had to
escort to the door, or b} guests arriving, whom she
had to receive. Gradually the stacks of baba began
to be levelled, and gradually the egg-pyramids, which
had at first appeared unconquerable, commenced to
dwindle and shrink; the hams were beginning to show
their bones, while of the sucking-pigs there remained
little more than their grin.

Nevertheless, five o'clock in the afternoon found the
Wowasulka dining-room still full. No house was
more assailed by Easter visitors than this of the new-made
Marszalek. A swarm of black-coated courtiers
hovered perpetually round his person. His opinion
was asked, his views were agreed to, the arrangement
of his flower-garden was admired. What were his
opinions of the European peace ? What did he think
of the chances of this year's crops? What was the
last report of the railway company ? Was the Lod-nisi
line really to carry the day, or was the Bruszow
line still on the tapis f And then, as to this fever in
Tarajow, were the deaths really as numerous as reported?
A string of questions, as long as this and
longer, was being continually put to Lucyan by older
men and more experienced men than himself, who,
one and all, listened to his answers with at least outward
respect.

Lucyan answered the whole string of questions with

a patience which was most admirable. His opinion
of the European peace was good, and of the crops
bad. He really knew very little about the railway
company ; but the white posts were put up at Lod-nisi,
which any one could see for himself. The fever,
he believed, was very strong at Tarajow  there were
funerals daily  and it was a great bore certainly, coming
just at this time ; for ever so many workmen had
fallen off in consequence, and, as a result, the spring
work suffered.

I am thankful to say that I have my oats all in
the ground," said young Tiburtio, who was among the
guests, and who for the last two years had been a
married man.

There used never to be fevers in my day," remarked
a certain choleric old gentleman, who had
grown more choleric as well as older in these last
four years. " It all comes from the degeneracy of the
times."

But there used to be cholera and pest to make up
for it," suggested Lucyan ; and the guests, having had
a good deal of wodki by this time, laughed aloud at
the ready answer of the Marszalek.

Another gentleman, who rolled his eyes ferociously,
observed that no man present had outlived more
fevers than he had.

But the topic was not a festive topic, and it found

no favour; it was dropped for more congenial subjects,
while host and hostess pressed their guests to
finish up the cheerful day by a cheerful evening. The
mangled sucking-pigs had been replaced by whole
ones ; fresh stacks were beginning to rise down the
length of the long table ; a musical young gentleman,
who had recently lost his voice, was just regretting
his inability to favour the company with a song,
which no one had asked for, when again the sound of
carriage-wheels swept up to the door.

Xenia rose instinctively to receive this new guest ;
but Lucyan, turning from the window, made her a
sign to sit still. " It is only the doctor to see after
Wandusia," he whispered, as he passed her.

Every one saw the doctor leave his carriage, and
every one heard the doctor's steps going along the
passage, and nobody thought anything further of it.
The empty carriage began to drive slowly a little bit
up the road, and then down again. The guests looked
out of the window, criticised the horses, remarked
that they were ill matched, and then, growing tired
of the amusement, gave up the contemplation of the
doctor's equipage. Ten minutes later, looking out
again, they were surprised to see the carriage still
standing and still empty. The doctor was staying a
long time in the house, thought the guests, as they
waited for the return of their host. They waited full

ten minutes longer ; they began to feel curious first
then perhaps faintly uneasy. The doctor's well-known
face had been the first check upon the festive spirit of
the day; and somehow, as minute after minute passed,
people's eyes began to turn impatiently towards the
door, while unconsciously conversation flagged and
stood still. There had been steps more than once in
the passage, hurried steps passing ; and once a further
door had opened, and the voice of a wailing child
reached the listening ears. Then there was a pause,
and then, to everybody's relief, the door opened.

"You must not go home without a glass of wod-
ki, doctor," Lucyan was saying, as he ushered the
doctor in.

The doctor was an old man, and rather shortsighted.
He came a step into the room, then, peering
around him, he stood still and hesitated.

Oh," he said, with a slight start, " you have guests,
I see; rather unfortunate."

Come, that is polite to us," cried one of the
guests. They were all well acquainted with the doctor.
" Let us break an egg, doctor, I say."

But the doctor still stood and hesitated.

I am scarcely justified in intruding, although they
say that doctors carry no infection'*

"And teething is not infectious," added Lucyan,
with a laugh. But this time the Marszalek's joke

was not echoed, and Lucyan himself was scanning the
doctor's face very intently.

Teething is not infectious," repeated the doctor,
slowly, while the guests looked at each other, with the
cold chill of apprehension which had touched their
hearts reflected on their faces. The hostess herself,
with pale cheeks and startled eyes, was gazing from
her husband's face to that of the doctor, and back
again at her husband.

Who it was that first pronounced the dreaded word
no one knew ; but before another minute had passed,
the truth was flying round the room from mouth to
mouth. Every one whispered the word " fever " to
his neighbour, and, instinctively, every person who
was sitting rose, and every person who held a glass ora
plate put it hastily down.

The host, looking rather pale, was ushering the
doctor out, and returned to receive the hasty shakes of
the hand and hurried words of condolence of his departing
guests. There was no possibility of veiling the
truth by any roundabout phrases, for the plain word
had been spoken, and the panic-stricken guests fled
like sheep.

In twenty minutes more the house was deserted,
and nothing but the wrecks of habcc and the skeletons
of hams remained to tell of the joyful assembly
there had been.

And you," asked Lucyan, turning from the window
towards Kazimir, when the last of the carriages
had driven off, " of course you are going to fly ? Do
you want your horse led round ? "

No," said Kazimir. " Since I am here I shall
stay."

CHAPTEK IV.

LUCYAN PLAYS DIAMONDS.

"By merit raised
To that bad eminence. "

Paradise Lost.

Of course Lucyan had motives. It was not merely
because the sun was shining brightly outside, and
because the Easter lamb had bleated of Easter peace
over the green meadows, and the birds were chanting
their paschal Hallelujah overhead, that he had decked
his table and called together the guests to rejoice with
him over the brother who had been lost and was
found again. He was not a man to do anything
without motives ; and he had plenty of motives this
time, general as well as particular. The truest and
warmest hearted man that ever lived could not have
been more anxious than was Lucyan at this moment
to till up the breach of the last four years. The reasons
which made this desirable were various. To consider
it merely from the ornamental point of view, it

looked well to have a Imndsoine hussar brother about
the house. His uniform and moustache, his spurs and
his riding-cane, would all display themselves to the
general advantage and interest of the Marszalek's
household. And not only his spurs and his moustache,
 for Lucy an did full justice to his brother's
happy qualities of mind and manner, " Poor Kazio !
he is a brilliant butterfly," Lucyan would say, with a
mixture of pity and envy. He not only admitted the
brilliancy of the butterfly, he insisted on it, and so the
butterfly-nature became established with all the more
certainty. The Marszalek liked to hear people say
that he had the finest carriage, the best roses, the
prettiest wife in all the neighbourhood,  so why not
also the handsomest brother ?

But it was not merely as an ornament that Lucyan
desired his brother's presence. Kazimir might prove
useful as well as ornamental. An estrangement between
two brothers always has something suspicious
about it ; and Lucyan, who in his elevated position
felt himself and his actions illuminated to some extent
by the fierce light which beats on thrones, could
not afford to do anything which might appear suspicious.
It was much safer to be on good terms with
Kazimir, instead of on bad. As long as Kazimir's
regiment was stationed in Tyrol or Vienna, the breach
could do no harm, because to the eyes of the neighbourhood

it remained invisible ; but from the moment
that the hussars had been transferred to within a few
miles of Tarajow, Lu can's thoughts had tended, to
reconciliation. The breach must, of necessity, become
visible now. A breach presupposes a quarrel ; and
there never fail inquiring spirits who are anxious to
know what the quarrel has been about, and on which
side the fault lies.

Lucyan foresaw all this, and. ruminated over it. He
was in general given to deeper and more anxious reflections
now than four years ago. Four sears had
made changes in him as well as in his wife. He
looked older, thinner, more cautious, and more watchful.
His pale forehead had a line across it already,
though he was but twenty-eight. The higher a man
climbs, the more precarious does his footing become,
and the more destructive must prove a fall. Lucyan
had reached a height which, from its very elevation,
was slippery ; he knew that he must look carefully to
every one of his steps, especially if he wanted to reach
the yet greater heights which were the pinnacles of
his ambition. His ambition and his love of money
had made him into what he was now ; both had been
fed by success till each hungered for more, and each
trembled at the thought of losing what it already
held.

When first Lucyan heard of the hussars' arrival, he

felt convinced that Kazimir would be at Wowasulka
before a week was out. But that week passed, and
many others, and Kazimir did not appear. Lucyan
was thrown out of his reckonings ; he was not able
to imagine what amusement or what interest could
induce his brother to keep up a quarrel from which
there was no further advantage to be gained. As the
winter slowly passed, and Kazimir kept his distance,
Lucyan began to confess to himself that he had, after
all, somewhat mistaken his brother's character. Because
he knew Kazimir to be impulsive and thoughtless,
he had believed that he would be fickle in his
resolutions, and shallow, however passionate, in his
hate as well as in his love. Upon such obstinacy he
had not counted. He now recognised that the first
step would have to come from his side. Still he hesitated,
 not from any feeling of pride, but from a lack
of means. Then a bright thought, worthy of his
genius, struck him. If Kazimir had been so obstinate
in his enmity, might he not have been equally tenacious
in his love ? It was a chance, at any rate ; and
upon that chance he had thrown out a card  he had
played his Queen of Hearts. Father to his own surprise,
the card had taken the trick ; for almost as soon
as Kazimir, coming into Xenia's presence, had recognised
that his wound was not healed, Lucyan had
perceived the same. He had perceived it with a

shrug and a smile, such as men give in pity at another
man's folly. " To be sure he has not seen her for four
years," reasoned Lucyan, perhaps in explanation of
the folly. But the folly itself would fit most conveniently
into his plans. Kazimir had lost his buoyancy
and his lightness, he was a graver and a wiser
man ; but for all that he was not yet cured of his belief
in human nature,  and Lucyan rejoiced to see it.

So you got on well with Kazimir," he said to his
wife on that Easter-monday evening, after all the
terrified guests had fled from the house, and calmness
had in some degree been established among the no
less terrified servants. Xenia herself had spent the
evening in tears, and it was from the depth of a wet
pocket-handkerchief that she answered her husband's
question.

With Kazimir ? oh yes ; but do you really think,
Lucyan, that Wandusia will die ? "

It is of so much use asking my opinion, is it not ?
I wish you would stop crying, Xenia ; it will do 
no good, and it will only spoil your eyes ; " and
Lucyan looked towards his wife with evident anxiety,
for it would not suit his plans at all if her eyes were
spoiled.

She dried her eyes at once, though she still shook
with hysterical sobs.

I do not wish you to dwell on that subject," said

Lucy an. " I want to know what passed between you
and Kazimir. There was a little flirtation, was there
not ? "

Oh, Lucyan ! " She gazed at him with frightened
eyes, quite unable to understand from his tone whether
she were going to be scolded or praised. " Oh,
Lucyan ! " was the safest thing to say ; it covered all
contingencies, and she said it instinctively.

His wife's face at this moment seemed to amuse
Lucyan beyond all measure ; he stood looking at it
and laughing, while she trembled in fear of his next
words.

Do not look so scared, Xenia," he said, still laughing.
" I wanted only to know whether you and
Kazimir were really getting on as well together as
from the other end of the room you seemed to be.
Oh, you need not drop your eyes ; I know the length
of your lashes by heart. There is no harm, you know,
child ; is he not your brother-in-law ? "

Yes, of course," said Xenia, somewhat relieved.

"Well, he does not seem to think that you have
become much uglier in these four years, does he ? "

No," said Xenia, colouring, but with the suspicion
of a smile peeping out at the corners of her mouth.
After all, it was very pleasant to find that she had
not lost her looks in four years, and that Kazimir
saw it.

VOL. n. p

He would not mind doing you any little service,
for instance ? " suggested Lucyan.

I suppose not' said Xenia, utterly unable to follow
her husband's drift.

Or to give you a thing if you asked for it, would
he?"

I suppose not," repeated Xenia, more and more
bewildered. " Am I to ask him for anything ? "

Not just at present ; but it may come. Have you
ever heard of the story of the monkey who wanted the
hot chestnuts out of the ashes, Xenia ? "

Yes ; at least I think so."

Lucyan was standing beside his wife's chair. He
took up the hand which lay on her lap, and contemplated
it with the eye of a satisfied critic. It was a
hand perfect both in colour and shape ; so small, so
narrow, so delicate, so white a hand would have been
hard to match even in Poland, where all women have
comparatively beautiful hands. Lucyan looked it allover,
from the tiny wrist to the rosy nails ; and Xenia
sat quite passive, gazing alternately at her husband
and at her beautiful hand. Of course she knew that
her hand was beautiful, and she supposed that her
husband was admiring it, but she wondered why he
was admiring it just now. Neither was it much enlightenment
to her when in the next moment he said,
It would make a pretty little cat's-paw ; " and he

stroked it gently, as if afraid of breaking so frail a
thing. " And it is going to fetch out the hot chestnuts
so neatly from the ashes. Are you fond of chestnuts,
Xenia?"

Yes, rather ; I like them with salt," answered the
puzzled Xenia, vaguely aware that the hot chestnuts
were not really hot chestnuts. Lucyan laughed again,
and she started and shrank back, as she always did at
the sound of his laugh.

Then you will not mind burning your fingers a
little to get them," said Lucyan, looking on in exquisite
enjoyment at his wife's bewilderment. " I suppose
a diamond bracelet would quite make up for
burnt fingers, would it not, Xenia?"

A diamond bracelet ! " Xenia's eyes lit up, as
she stared at her husband. " Are you going to give
me a diamond bracelet, Lucyan ? " she asked, breathlessly.


I was thinking of it," said Lucyan, still softly stroking
the hand he held. " Diamonds would look well,
would they not, upon this little cat's-paw,  upon this
little wrist, I mean ? If you promise to do as you are
told, and to make yourself useful, I shall write to
Lwow about the bracelet."

"Will there be as many diamonds as in Madame
Murawska's ? " asked Xenia, with wide eyes.

There will be more," said Lucyan.

The wide eyes flashed for joy. " What am I to do,
Lucyan ? Can I not do it at once ? "

'No, not at once ; it is not time yet. See only that
Kazimir should not feel neglected this week. Keep
him in good-humour; and mind, you are not to sit
up at night in the nursery  leave that to stronger
people."

Xenia's tears burst out afresh. " Poor Wandusia !
don't you think she will get well, Lucyan ? Why will
you not let me nurse her ? "

I have told you why ; because the fever is infectious,
and you might catch it."

I want to catch it ; I want to die if she dies,"
sobbed Xenia, hysterically.

But you do not want to lose your complexion, I
suppose," suggested Lucyan ; " and no woman ever
recovers her complexion after this fever. They remain
sallow for life." 

The prospect of remaining sallow for life was far
more terrifying than the prospect of death. Xenia
began to consider the question seriously.

"You know it would not do if you lost your complexion,"
said Lucyan.

No, of course it would not do," admitted Xenia,
through her tears ; but then if Vizia nurses her "

Vizia has no complexion to lose."

To be sure." Xenia recognised the truth of that.

Poor Vizia ! she really has no complexion to
lose."

The complexion had turned the scale ; and this for
the present was all that Lucyan could do towards the
furtherance of the more particular motive which had
induced him to hold out the hand of reconciliation to
Kazimir. This was not the time to act further upon
that motive; everything had to give way to the unwelcome
guest which had come upon them unawares.
A horrid uneasiness prevailed over the household.
Every morning they awoke, wondering whether they
were still safe from the fever, and curious to know
whether no one had sickened in the night. At every
headache they thought of fever ; if their appetites
failed them, they were certain it was the fever. They
watched each other, and shunned each other with a
morbid caution. Even the inquiries which the neighbours
sent made them feel more like a plague-stricken
household ; for every servant of every neighbour had
been threatened with dismissal, should he venture
to cross the threshold of the infected house; so the
inquiries were shouted down from the seat of a vehicle,
which, halting at a safe distance, made off again as soon
as the answer was shouted back. The answers thus
shouted back varied but slightly : " A little better 
anxious night  fever increased  no change."

By the Thursday of that week, little Wandusia was

at the height of the fever, while two fresh cases had
broken out ; the cook and the garden-boy had taken it.
As yet no other member of the family was touched.

Kazimir did not know whether to be glad or sorry
for having remained at Wowasulka. To have gone
would have appeared to him like a cowardly abandoning
of them all in their trouble, and yet to stay seemed
like heightening the general confusion. The confusion
was yet more heightened when, on Wednesday,
Mademoiselle Eobertine suddenly appeared upon the
scene, in all the splendid gloom of black garments
and black veils, bringing with her a black hand-bag,
and looking more unfathomable than ever as she
stepped out of a conveyance which seemed to have
become infected with her own blackness. From the
Easter rejoicing she had fled, but the news of the fever
brought her back to the spot with a gloomy alacrity.
To her unspeakable surprise she found that she was
not wanted : for the black garments frightened 
into a lit; and, excluded from the room, Eobertine
was forced to content herself with concocting for the
invalid mysterious mixtures, after recipes which she
kept under lock and key.

As for the second elderly aunt, Madame Torska, she
remained in the house ; but partly from fear of the
fever, and partly from fear of the dangerous brother,
in whose presence she never could feel quite easy, she

shut herself up strictly in her room, and there remained
invisible. Lucyan likewise was generally invisible,
excusing himself on the plea of business ; and
thus it came about that the two unoccupied inmates of
the house  for Marcin seldom appeared  were thrown
into frequent contact. Many a time did Kazimir,
coming down the passage, hear whispered voices at the
other end, and catch sight of a slender figure, in a pale-blue
dressing-gown, over which streamed chestnut hair,
standing beside the sick-room door, and holding a tearful
parley through the chink. On these occasions,
Xenia was usually bearing in her hands a glass or a
plate with some delicacy, which, as she expressed herself,
she had prepared with her own fingers for her sick
darling,  but which, as Vizia repeatedly explained,
could not avoid being the sick darling's certain death.
A little slice of cake could not hurt her,  she is so
fond of cake, poor pet ! " or, " a drop of sweet wine
would be sure to do her good ; " thus Xenia was usually
parleying when Kazimir came down the passage.

Please take her away," Vizia would then say,
through the chink, to Kazimir; and then Kazimir
would take her away, and she, faintly protesting,
would allow herself to be led into another room, and
consoled by her brother-in-law. Every day this scene
took place, with small variations. Every evening,
Xenia, dressed in the same blue dressing-gown, and

with her hair hanging down her back, asked Lucyan,
May I sit up with Wandusia ? " And every evening
Lucyan answered, " 'No, you may not ; " after which
Xenia sobbed and protested; after which every one
persuaded her that her wish was foolish ; after which,
finally, Xenia resigned herself to go to sleep in her
own bed, and getting up next morning, fresh and
blooming, began again to spend her time as before,
between standing and sighing outside the nursery-door,
and then taking disinfectants for the fever, 
alternately shedding tears and bathing her eyes in
rose-water. She said prayers for her child upon a
mother-of-pearl rosary, and wore a silver medal upon
a blue ribbon round her neck as preservative against
the fever.

Matters were still at this stage, when Saturday, and
the end of Kazimir's short leave, came. He returned
to his station and to his work with a somewhat heavier
heart than that with which he had left it. Three days
passed, and he had had no news from Wowasulka. On
Tuesday afternoon, feeling uneasy at this silence, he
started to make inquiries.

CHAPTER V.

A SMALL Card.

Infandum, regina, jubes renovate colored."

Virgil.

The afternoon was cloudless, the sky blindingly blue,
the air perfumed with violets. In Lucyan's garden
the violets were flowering in profusion. A perfect
wave of violet-scent swept towards Kazimir as he
drew close to the house. The gardener was busy
gathering the flowers which grew thickly between the
rocks and rhododendrons at the far end of the garden.
Lucyan, whose masterful genius loved perfection in
details, had covered every bare patch in the rockery
with violet plants ; for the rockery was his proudest
creation. "Have you seen my twins?" he had one
day startled Kazimir by asking; and then, with a
laugh at his brother's inquiring stare, he had pointed
to a pair of tall rocks which stood side by side on the
slope, far overtopping their scattered fellows. " My
twins are fine specimens, are they not?" Lucyan added,
with all the pride of a newly made father.

It was beside Lucyan's twins that Kazimir now
caught sight of a basket, full to overflowing with
purple heads ; he vaguely wondered for what so many
violets could be wanted. As he turned from the garden
to the house a chill of fear touched him,  for he
saw shuttered windows ; and in the doorway Lucyan
was standing with a tall hat in his hand ; and as
Kazimir got nearer, he saw that there was black crape
round the hat.

Wandusia had died on Sunday, the day after Kashmir
left the house. In the confusion no one had
thought of writing to him ; but he had come in time
for the funeral,  for the priest was to be here almost
immediately. And then a white hand was laid on
Kazimir's arm, and a quivering voice whispered, " Shall
I show her to you ? you have never seen her, and she
looks so pretty."

Kazimir following his beautiful, black-robed guide,
found himself standing in a darkened room, where
wax-candles where flickering around a little bed, and
where the violet-scent made the air almost too sickly
to be sweet. Aunt Eobertine was there, looking more
in place than Kazimir had ever seen her look before ;
and Vizia was there, haggard with long watching, and
red-eyed with weeping  for Vizia had not had time
to use rose-water.

Is she not lovely ? " whispered the voice beside

him ; and Kazimir, gazing down, started at the sight
of that little face, pillowed on lace and framed in
blooming violets. He had never seen it before, and
yet it was so familiar. The short chestnut curls, the
transparent pearly tint of skin, the long curling
lashes, the tiny rosebud mouth, they were all as
familiar to him as things that he knew well ; and as
things that he knew well too, there struck upon him
that spotless innocence of childhood, that heavenly
purity of smile, stamped upon the two-year-old
features, as things that he knew well  or rather
that he had known well  not so long ago, four years
at most. He did not seem to know them so well
now. The little Wandusia on the bed seemed almost
more like the Xenia of four years ago than the beautiful
woman that stood beside him in this moment.

Is she not lovely ? " whispered Xenia beside him.

Take care," said Lucyan's voice sharply,  " the
wreath, you will crush it ; " for Kazimir had bent to
kiss the little face on the pillow.

The blood seemed to rush from his heart to his
head, as his lips touched the small cold cheek. With
one leap of memory he was borne back to a night
years ago, when he had touched a cheek as fair as
that, but less cold ; and when he had looked into eyes
that were veiled by just such soft lashes as these.
He had kissed Xenia but that once in his life, and in

this moment it seemed to him almost as though he
were kissing her for the second time. Why was it
that there flashed through his mind a feeling of something
that was lost; something that had been and
was no more ; something that he must mourn for as
past ?

He awoke from a dream to the sound of her voice,
and to the consciousness that Lucy an was putting to
rights again the violet wreaths which he had displaced.
AYould he come into the next room now ?
the whisper asked ; she wanted to show him something
else.

He went into the next room ; and in the next room
there was a different sight to see.

"Are they not lovely?" asked Xenia, drying her
eyes, as she opened a morocco case. " I have never
had a diamond bracelet yet, and they came just to-day.
Is it not kind of Lucyan ? "

Kazimir found it very kind of Lucyan, and very
thoughtful ; it was only an additional proof of how
thoroughly Lucyan understood women. He himself
would never have guessed that diamonds were such a
powerful means of drying tears. He ruminated upon
the question for the next hour; he reflected upon
it still as he followed the funeral towards Tarajow.
Lucyan and he alone followed, for Marcin, at the last
moment, was not to be moved from the house. Kashmir

being sent to Hurry him, found his brother seated
in his dressing-gown, by the window, lazily watching
the little coffin as it was lifted into the carriage.

"Marcin! what are you thinking of?" Kazimir
exclaimed. " We are all waiting for you."

'' I will tell you what I was thinking of," answered
Marcin, leaning back. " I was thinking what a comfortable
thing it must be to be a corpse ; it is such a
blessing to think that one will have to take no trouble
about one's own funeral."

"Are you ill, Marcin?" asked Kazimir, somewhat
startled by his brother's look.

Marcin gazed at him with a puzzled air. " I've got
lead in my arms and legs, and wheels in my head, but
I am quite vell otherwise."

This was all the account Marcin could give of
himself, and the mourning-carriage had started without
him. There were many mourning-carriages following
the funeral, and many more violet - wreaths sent
to be laid on the small coffin. At the entrance of the
wooden church outside Tarajow, there stood a crowd
of gaping peasants, dressed in their best, for it was the
Russian Easter now. A peasant-bride stood therewith
a thick round wreath of periwinkles perched on
the crown of her head ; she had walked ten miles to be
married, but she could not be married that day, they
told her, for the Marszalek's child had to be buried.

There was not a stone in the entire construction of
the church : the square enclosure in which it stood,
the four low turrets at the four corners of the enclosure,
the church itself with its round-roofed 
domes, was framed entirely and solely of
deep-brown wood. The wooden walls were cut at rare
intervals by tiny square windows ; in consequence of
this the church was dark ; and in consequence of the
darkness there were, on this occasion, a profusion of
candles lit. Not only were there candles flaming on
the altar and round the coffin, but in order to give
additional pomp to the ceremony, and be all the more
sure of pleasing the Marszalek, there were candles
distributed throughout the length and breadth of the
congregation. A Polish peasant is never so happy as
when he is holding a burning candle; but perhaps
because it was Easter-week, and the greater part of
the congregation had been refreshing themselves more
than usual at the wddki shops, few of the candles even
approached the perpendicular. Wax was dripped and
hair was singed, and many a hole was burnt in many
a peasant's best coat.

Over the altar there hung a gloomy and terrific
representation illustrative of eternal torments ; and
upon this painting all the eyes of young and old hung
with an irresistible fascination  for to the Polish
peasant his religion is nothing, if it is not a religion

of terror. The Polish peasant has a broad mind, and
requires to be treated by broad means. Such feeble
pictures of hell as show nothing more dreadful than
seas of melted fire or commonplace coils of snakes,
could not hope to intimidate an untutored Polish
mind. Something much more distinct and tangible is
required, as the priests have found out long ago ; and
therefore it is that the altar-piece in almost every
peasant church shows hell as represented by innumerable
devils, each holding a pitchfork, while upon
the point of each pitchfork there struggles at least
one victim, with starting eyes and foaming mouth ;
and as a culminating touch to the situation, every
devil spits fire into every victim's face. Not even a
Polish peasant can misunderstand this ; and he kneels
cowering and staring, while the salutary reflection
forces itself upon his mind that if he drinks too
much woclki, or beats his wife too often, or steals
more than is reasonable of his neighbour's Tcasza,
thus will he be treated  devils, pitchforks, and all.

The closely-packed peasants, the sputtering candles,
the perfume of woclJd, and the scent of incense, combined
to an unpleasant degree. It was a relief to taste
the evening air again. The ceremony had lasted long,
and the sun was near setting, when Kazimir, having
taken leave of his brother, turned his face homewards.

Whether it was little Wandusia's death that had

depressed him, or whether the devils and their pitchforks
had affected him so deeply certainly Kazimir
rode along in a gloomy and dejected mood. He began
to think over the week that he had passed in his
brother's house ; he began to picture to himself again
that figure in deep mourning that had stood beside
him this afternoon. Restlessly he asked himself, when
should he see her again? To-morrow? The day after?
How soon could he go again? There was a voice which
said within him,  Never ; go never again ! What right
had he to go to his brother's house since he was in
love with his brother's wife ? For he saw now that he
loved her more desperately and more madly than he
had loved her four years ago. It was easy to wish
now that he had thrust back the olive-branch held
out ; but the olive-branch had been taken, and it had
wounded him more deeply than the point of a warlike
lance could have done. " But I need not go back
there for the present," thought Kazimir, with a desperate
resolution. " I will stay away a month, or a
fortnight, and perhaps I shall feel cooler then." And
he immediately began to draw pictures in his mind of
Xenia ; there could be no harm in dwelling on them,
since he was not to see her for so long. Only the
pictures had grown more confused. Was he to think
of her as crying by the deathbed of her child, or as
smiling over her diamond bracelet ? In both pictures

she looked equally beautiful, but they would not remain
distinct. And again and again a third picture,
more confused than the others, would force itself before
his mind. It seemed to him that it was Xenia
whom he had seen on her deathbed, with the violet-wreaths
all around her, and that smile of heavenly
innocence on her face, and the fancy clung to him that
it was Xenia whom he had kissed, and that it was a
farewell kiss that he had given. And yet it was not
Xenia who had been laid to rest in that little cemetery
beside the wooden church. Kazimir turned in his
saddle and looked back towards the place he had left.
There stood the round brown towers, and a blaze of
crimson sunset flamed behind them. The sky was
brilliant and dazzlingly red. He had not seen so fine
a sunset for long, he thought, as he turned his head
and rode on.

He did not think of the sunset again until ten
minutes later, when he came upon a group of peasants
standing at a turn of the road. There was,
amongst others, the peasant-bride, who had waited at
the church door ; only now she was in tears, and her
bridegroom was drunk, and her periwinkle-wreath lay
fading in the ditch.

Upon all the faces there shone a red reflection, and
the same red light was dancing on the tree-tops.

Kazimir, turning again, perceived that the sunset,
VOL. n. Q

instead of fading, had become finer than ever, which
was contrary to the habit of sunsets. Neither had it
the calmness of a sunset ; for the crimson blaze flickered
as it rose and fell, and the brilliant flames seemed
almost as though they were really flaming.

WielJci Polar ! " the ]peasants were whispering as
they stared ; and Kazimir, catching the words, turned
his horse, and gazed more keenly towards the west.
No, that was no sunset. The peasants were right ; it
was a fire  a large fire. The Tarajow church was
burning ; and once a Eussian church begins to burn, it
would be as hopeful a task to try to extinguish a pile
of burning wood. No pile of wood could, in fact, be
so conveniently laid for conflagration as these strange
edifices, where a spark dropped near the wooden
walls can hardly fail to breed destruction. The tears
of the bride were explained ; for well did she know
that, before the church was built up again, her bridegroom
would have converted into woclki the sum
which was to have been their marriage portion. The
burning of the Tarajow church had undoubtedly
affected one destiny directly. It did not occur to
Kazimir to-night, nor did it occur to Lucyan next
day, nor to Marcin, nor to any one else, that it might
indirectly affect some other destinies.

The Tarajow church had been burnt down several
times before, and would probably burn down several

times again. How should they guess that in this fire
was forged the first link of a chain which was to
weigh heavily upon more than one life?

No prophetic instinct touched Kazimir, as he gazed
at the fire ; no shiver of apprehension came over him
as he rode homewards, and no visions visited him in
the night. He was tired, and he slept soundly, and
was awakened next morning by a message from Woe
His brother Marcin had taken the fever.

CHAPTER YL

A SINGLETON.

It is not good that man should be alone" Gen. ii. 18.

It was on a fair May morning that Vizia stood, with
an open letter in her hand, beside a post of wood
painted white. She was alone at Lodniki again,
whither she had returned after Wandusia's funeral,
and she had resumed that lonely and independent life
which so greatly shocked all her friends. That it was
a melancholy life to lead, was to be seen from the
expression of habitual sadness which had settled upon
her face, and that it had been an unprofitable life as
well, was evident from the many signs of decayed
fortune which were visible all around her. The
stables had sunk in ruins ; the garden, once planned
by Eogdanovics, had for the most part been abandoned
to weeds ; all, save a few, of the windows were
barred up with shutters ; what had been in bad condition
four years ago was going to wreck now ; where

there had been signs of neglect visible then, there was
nothing but desolation now. It would have been all
but impossible to trace the resting-place of the " Ehiz-
anelkometer," where it lay beside the tree-trunk, so
thick had the nettles and the brambles grown in these
years. It was a dismal place to live at, a dismal life
to lead; and yet hitherto Vizia had clung to it almost
with fondness  had revelled in its solitude, and
hugged its melancholy to her heart. She had found
a bitter comfort when lying awake in winter nights,
to listen to the wolf howl in the forest, or the
shriek of the night-bird, as it shot past her window,
and to say, "I am alone and unsupported  I owe
gratitude to no one ; and if I rise, I rise through my
own strength  and if I fall, I fall by myself alone."

When Vizia had first formed the resolution of
managing Lodniki for herself, she had thought herself
most admirably suited for the task; for in her own
energy and perseverance she had full confidence. In
reality she could not have been more unsuited than
she was. Her very energy stood in her way ; it
pushed her to extremes. She was too obstinate to
take advice, too imprudent to weigh her chances
coolly, and too proud to confess her failures. She
was, in fact, everything which a woman in this position
should not be. Not even her friends knew  or
if any one had guessed, it could only be Lucyan  to

what straits lie had brought herself by this time.
The estate had been left by Eogdanovics in an unfavourable
condition, and under Vizia's hands it had
sunk to a despairing one. Every day for the last
three years had seemed to be bringing her nearer to
utter ruin ; every year the percentage for sums borrowed
from the Jews accumulated at a pace as alarming
as it was destructive. Lodniki belonged by this
time to the Jews almost more than to her.

Such had been her position until within a few
months past. Then, all at once, a merciful Providence
seemed to have thrown in her very path the means of
salvation. The long-talked-of and half-forgotten railway
began to be talked of again. The country was
stirred with the excitement of the prospect. Intrigues
were set on foot, deputations were organised, petitions
were written. And even if the petitions were never
attentively read, and if the deputations did not really
affect the matter one way or the other, the former
where at least good outlets for superfluous energy, and
the latter were first-rate opportunities for taking little
trips to Lemberg and Vienna, paying visits in national
costume to ministers and ambassadors ; and then, having
first spent several days in drinking to the success
of the future railway, in expensive wines at first-rate
hotels, to return home, bringing such precious crumbs
of speech, fallen from ministerial or even imperial

lips, as : " We shall have much pleasure in considering
the question ; " or, " We can see no serious objection to
the fulfilment of your wishes ; " or the important verdict
of the minister of war, who thought that he was
justified in saying that, so far as he could see, in the
possible case of a long course of European war (which
he trusted was improbable), the railway proposed
might prove of some importance. The money spent
upon journeys, the paper spent on petitions, and the
eloquence spent on addresses during the six months
that the railway-fever stood at its height, were far more
than were expended in six years of ordinary existence.
There was scarcely a member of Parliament left unmolested
by entreaties ; and there was scarcely a proprietor
in that part of the country who was not
anxious to prove, and who did not to his own satisfaction
prove, that only by passing through his particular
estate could the future railway hope to be beneficial
to national as well as international interests.

In spite of all this spurious energy, and in spite of
the great pleasure which high personages declared
they would feel in considering the question, the railway
ran a great chance of falling asleep again for
another ten years ; and might very likely have done
so, had the Poles been left to themselves. But they
were not left to themselves. An enterprising Belgian
Company, which had already laid some hundred

thousand miles of rails in their day  which had
made several dozen canals navigable, and several
.dozen mountains more easily accessible, by its splendid
engineering  which was in the habit of buying up a
whole street one day, and selling it on the next  and
which had contracts with more than half the Governments
of Europe,  suddenly took the matter into its
hands. It had scented the chance from afar; and
stretching out its arm half across Europe, prepared to
strike while the iron was hot. Before the Poles had
time to cool down from the pitch of feverish excitement
to which the smooth-spoken ministers and the
Vienna hotel-suppers had worked them, the Erres
Longuebourse, or rather their emissaries (for the Frees
Longuebourse themselves were two fat, old men, too
wheezy even to walk down their own marble staircase),
had set foot in the land, and were casting their eyes
about them. Nothing could have been more startling
than the appearance of these Belgians in this sleepy
corner of the earth. Their nonchalance, their rapidity,
the breadth of their ideas, quite took away the breath
of the neighbourhood. These hundred miles of railway,
which had been such an awful and such a harrowing
question to the country, were mere child's-play,
a bagatelle, to be regarded more as recreation than as
work for the Freres Longuebourse.

Vizia had at first taken little interest in the railway

question. Of course it must ultimately raise the value
of her estate, as it would raise the value of every
estate in the neighbourhood. But the railway would
take two, perhaps three, years to build  and Yizia
knew well that she could not wait so long. Lodniki
must be nominally, as well as virtually, in the hands
of the Jews, before another year was out. It was
only when the proposition was set forth that the line
of railway should pass through the Lodniki ground
itself, that Vizia suddenly saw a ray of hope. The
exact line to be taken by the railway at this point of
its course had hung for some time in doubt. More
than a dozen different lines had been mooted ; but the
dozen had now dwindled down to two, and Lodniki
was one of the two. Not only this, but Lodniki was
the favourite of the two. The Freres Longuebourse
had set up a row of posts upon the ground, and they
had set up none on the Bruszow line. From the
moment that the posts were up  even though the contract
was not signed  Vizia felt that she was saved.
And her hopes were not unreasonable ; for the Freres
Longuebourse were not only large in their ideas of
railways and canals, but also broad in their notions
of payment. A few thousand florins were neither
here nor there to the Freres Longuebourse.

They had opened treaty with Vizia for the railway
ground, hinting at a sum which, in her present desperate

strait, quite dazzled her with its magnificence.
As yet they had not got beyond hinting, but this
morning post had brought her a letter from the Belgian
Company, which contained a new and important
proposition.

It was this letter which Vizia held open in her
hand, as she stood beside the post. She had read it
several times over already, and now she was reading
it over again, for she could not quite make up her
mind whether to the proposition here contained she
should say Yes or No. The Company offered to buy
the estate entirely. It was an abnormal proceeding;
but as Lodniki lay in a long and narrow strip, and the
projected line ran the whole length of that strip, the
Company, being enterprising, had hit upon the idea as
good ; more especially as the wood on the estate would
be enough to supply timber for the entire line.

It was a good price which they offered, and, on the
whole, Vizia leant towards " yes." There was, to be
sure, a pang in parting from Lodniki just as it was
about to become prosperous, and in relinquishing all
ownership of the white posts, which had first brought
her hope. But on the other hand it happened, strangely
enough, that this lonely life to which she had clung so
tenaciously till now, had suddenly become to her own
eyes unattractive. She was not quite able to trace
since when this change of sentiment had occurred, and

she did not think of asking herself whether the change
had come since a certain day, a little while ago, when
Kazimir had expressed his opinions on this subject.
Feminine independence had lost all its charms in her
eyes since then.

By what appeared to be a coincidence, the same
morning which brought Vizia's letter brought her also
a visit from Lucyan. He found her with the letter
still in her hand. " I have just come over to give you
the last news of Marcin," he said, as he sauntered
across the grass towards Vizia. " He is up for the
first time to-day ; looks like a ghost of himself, but the
doctor says he will recover his strength in a week or
two. I wonder whether he will ; he is most extraordinarily
weak at present. If he does not recover, it
certainly will not be for want of medicines ; that apothecary's
girl is continually in the house with bottles,
and boxes, and powders. Ah, you have a letter; don't
let me disturb you."

There is no secret about the letter ; you can read
it, if you like ; " and Vizia held out the paper to
Lucyan.

Just as I thought," said Lucyan to himself, as he
took the sheet ; " Aitzig is a good spy."

He read the letter very carefully, and returned it.
The Belgians are a business-like nation," he remarked,
after a silence. " And the Freres Longuebourse must

be long-headed men," he added, after a second silence,
as Vizia made no answer.

What makes you find that out to-day ? " she asked
now.

'' This letter."

Eeally ? " said Vizia, coldly, folding np the letter
again. She was very much inclined to ask Lucyan
what he meant, only that it would appear like asking
for his advice, and she hated to do that.

It accounts for their immense success," continued
Lucyan, as though musing. " Always to see a chance
for their interest, and never to miss it ; that is just the
proper way."

Then you think it would be a good bargain for
them ? " broke out Vizia. She bit her lip in the next
moment, wishing she had not spoken.

Lucyan smiled very slightly, and stroked his black
moustache. " A good bargain for them ? There can
scarcely be two opinions about the matter, T should
think. They offer you about two-thirds of what the
real value of the estate is, and they get their wood for
nothing. Of course, you accept the offer?" he added,
turning his eyes upon her sharply.

Why of course ? " inquired Vizia, contradictiously.

"Well, because it is an offer which no woman in
your position should refuse."

What did he know of her position ? What right had

he to be aware that she was on the verge of bankruptcy
? Vizia coloured scarlet with vexation.

It must be a great relief to you' continued Lucyan,
quite calmly, " to have found this convenient opportunity
of ridding yourself of Lodniki and its management.
I always predicted that it would be so, you
know."

Vizia stood crumpling her letter in her hand, and
biting her lip. She did not trust herself to answer,
for she knew that she could not answer without speaking
hotly. The footing on which she stood towards
her cousin's husband was a strained and disagreeable
footing. Never in all these four years had the coldness
between them thawed, even by one degree.

The woman who would make a good farmer,"
Lucyan was saying as he stood watching Vizia out of
his half-closed eyes, "has not been created yet. No
woman has the nerve, the patience, or the coolness
for the work."

Vizia could keep silence no longer. " Father say
at once," she answered scornfully, " that all women
are fools ; I know you believe it, so why not proclaim
it ? "

Because I never could think of doing anything so
rude," said Lucyan, with an enraging smile. " Besides,
you exaggerate my ideas, and do not make
allowances for them. One is rather apt to judge

of all women, is one not, by the pattern of one's
wife?"

What have you to complain of in your wife ? "
asked Vizia, with a flash of the old protecting feeling.

Oh, nothing ; she has quite brains enough for
putting on her clothes prettily, and keeping up delightful
chatter by the hour ; but I should as soon
think of discussing a business question, such as this
one "  and he motioned towards the letter  " with a
two-year-old child as with Xenia. Que voulez-vous ?
One must take women as they are. That I should be
discussing such a question with you, should be proof
enough that I do not consider you as belonging to the
same  let us say category, as Xenia. To return to the
question : you have quite made up your mind, I suppose,
to say ' yes ' t othe Frees Longuebourse ? "

I have not made up my mind to say anything as
yet," said Vizia, embittered rather than softened by
the implied compliment to her intelligence.

It was just the other day, was it not," said Lucyan,
with a sneer, " that Kazimir was advising you to get
ridof Lodniki?"

Yes, he did advise me the other day," said Vizia,
defiantly. "What of it?"

Oh, nothing," laughed Lucyan ; " only that it is so
strange to hear a man of that sort setting up to give
grave advice upon these subjects. If I were going to

buy a horse, or order a cask of wine, I should certainly
ask Kazimir's advice,  but as for anything else 1 "

What do you mean by ' a man of that sort ' ? " she
interrupted, choking with sudden passion.

"I do not mean anything which need cause any
excitement," said Lucyan, as he contemplated her
burning cheeks. " It is nothing so very bad to say of
a young man that he has been a little gay  'wild,'
some people call it."

"They call it wrong then," cried Yizia, with a
passionate flash in her eyes ; " every one is wrong who
says that he has done harm. Why are you all treating
him as though he were a black sheep ? Why are
you all so condescending and so cool ? Why do you,
in particular, never mention his name without a shrug
and a smile of pity ? What harm has he done ?
Can you name it ? "

Lucyan made no attempt at naming it : he merely
gave another shrug and another smile, as though to
say that against feminine arguments he had no defence.
Vizia's lips were quivering with excitement, for the
rage slowly gathering during these last five minutes
had entirely broken through the barrier of her self-control.
Lucyan saw it, and begged her to compose
herself. The effect was to make Vizia lose the last
remains of her composure.

I will not compose myself; I will speak ; and I

will be listened to. It has been burning on my lips
many a time to ask you how you dare treat your
brother as you do. He is a better man than you are,
and you know it ; he would have made a better husband
to Xenia; she would have been happier with
him, and you know that too."

I know nothing of the sort," said Lucyan, quietly.
Xenia's happiness requires to be fed upon society,
diamond bracelets, and Paris toilets ; Kazimir would
never have understood how to give her these, and
I do."

And in spite of her diamonds and her Paris
toilets, I pity her," said Vizia, hotly.

'' Take care ! " Lucyan raised a warning hand. " Do
not let any one hear you say that ; people might get
false ideas. When a woman pities too much, it usually
means that she is jealous."

Vizia stared, scarcely understanding his meaning ;
it was not easy in the first moment to imagine what
possible motive for jealousy, in this sense, she could
be supposed to have towards Xenia. But as she
stared, she understood. Lucyan's smile and the lookin
his eyes made it clearer than his words. It flashed
upon her now that this man had once been called her
suitor ; that he had aspired, or had appeared to aspire,
to her hand. This was what he meant by jealousy.
She was a woman, and therefore she must be jealous

of the position which her cousin held, and which she
might have held herself. At the thought, there rose
in Yizia's soul such a wave of contempt and repulsion
that it quite drowned the hot anger of a minute ago.
She wondered at the calmness of her own voice, as,
turning her eyes full upon Lucyan, she answered :
I understand you perfectly well ; be so kind as to
understand me. I never would have married you ; I
should as soon have become a galley-slave as have
become your wife. I know what made you think of
me before you thought of Xenia,"  she came a step
nearer, and her eyes dilated slowly. " You thought I
was the rich cousin, and that she was the poor cousin ;
you might have made a fatal mistake,  only there was
no danger. I never would have married you ; you
know it."

He knew it ; he had known it long ago ; he had
hated her for it these four long years. Lucyan never
forgave an injury, provided that injury was a wound
to his vanity ; and the contempt and coldness which
had met him four years ago, had made his vanity
smart sorely. They had been treasured up since then
among his list of unforgiven offences. If he hated
her for her contempt, he hated her yet more for the
sharpness of her sight. He had known that both
existed, but this burst of passion revealed them as
existent in a degree which he had scarcely suspected.

VOL. n. R

The freezing: coldness of her glauce had at least the
power to stagger him for a moment. He stood opposite
to her in silence, though the smile never faded
from his face. Vizia slowly withdrew her eyes, and
turned her head away. This burst of reproach had
rubbed off a long score she felt, and she breathed the
more freely for it. With averted face she stood, waiting
for him to speak. It took him about half a
minute to recover from the unwonted feeling of surprise,
and then he spoke quite composedly, and in
quite different words from those which Vizia had
expected.

It strikes me that wee have become more personal
than we intended, have we not ? There is no good in
quarrelling over it, you know; and besides, I never
quarrel with ladies,  it is against my principles. Are
you not perhaps a little tired, over-excited with the
cares of management? Xo wonder you should be
anxious to free yourself from all responsibility. I
must be going homewards now : shall I send Kazimir
to discuss business with you one of these days, and to
give you advice ? "

"I do not want anybody's advice," said Vizia,
sullenly.

To 'persuade you, then, to sell the estate ; to clench
your resolution. I should have thought that either
advice or persuasion, coming from that quarter, would

have been particularly agreeable. But I am taking
up too much of your time, and I really must be going.
No messages for Xenia ? Good morning ; " and he
walked away again across the grass.

Vizia, as she stood looking after him, was trembling
from head to foot in a fever of passion. His last
words had been purposely pointed ; and even an edge
far less sharp would have sufficed to pierce her sensitive
pride. She was not able to recall each one of her
excited words, but she understood that she had betrayed
herself now,  she did not know that she had betrayed
herself long ago. Her secret lay bare before Lucyan.
He had dared to taunt her with it ; he would dare to
taunt her with it again. What torture to her pride !
She was clutching the crumpled letter convulsively in
her hand,  she looked down at the paper now. If she
said "yes" in reply, as Lucyan advised,  and as
Kazimir had indirectly advised then,  Vizia's cheek
burnt red again. She saw now in what light her
motives would be viewed. No ; she would decide for
herself. If she kept the estate, it would be because she
was strong enough to sustain her own position ; if she
sold it, it would only be because she chose to do so,
and not by any means because she had been advised.
Meanwhile Lucyan was smiling to himself, as he
drove homewards. " She hates me," he muttered to
himself,  " she always hated me ;" and as he leant back

on the seat of his carriage, there seemed to be scrawled
all over the blue May sky the gigantic word "Revenge."
There was to his eyes a most extraordinary
sweetness about that word just now. " You are very
clever, Mademoiselle Vizia/' he reflected; "but not
quite as clever as I am."

He had told the coachman to drive straight home,
but when half-way there he changed his mind, and
ordered him to go round by the Tarajow road, and
stop at the Propinacya. Arrived there, he got out
and inquired whether Aitzig Majulik was in.

Aitzig Majulik was in. A mumbling sound, which
"Lucy an knew well, told him that it was so. Aitzig
was busy with his devotions in a back-room, and had
apparently been busy with his w6dki too. Not drinking
it,  Aitzig's temptations did not lie in that direction,
 but, on the contrary, taking care that the poor
ignorant peasants should not get too much of the
demon down their throats ; for those bottles and jars
filled two-thirds with spirits, and those water-cans
alongside, irresistibly suggested a thinning process.
The mumbling sound ceased for a moment, as Lucyan
entered, and Aitzig, bringing down his eyes from the
ceiling, where they had been fastened in an ecstasy of
devotion, turned them sharply towards the door. His
left arm was bared to the elbow, and bandaged in a
strange fashion. He also wore a bandage round his

head, which at first sight suggested a broken skull, or
at least a bruised temple. But Aitzig's skull was in
unimpaired condition, as were all his mental powers.
The strange bandages were nothing but the tablets of
the Ten Commandments, technically called Swollen,
and worn in the orthodox fashion ; and the mumbling
sound was the recital of those same Commandments
a part of Aitzig's daily devotions.

Thou shalt not kill.  The gracious Pan wishes to
speak to me ? " for just then Lucyan entered.

It is only a minute," said Lucyan. " I have been
to Lodniki and seen her. The letter had come this
morning."

When Aitzig says that a thing will come, it will
come.  Thou shalt not steal.  Has the Panii answered
the letter yet?"

No. Of course if she accepts the proposition then
my plans are smashed ; but I have been talking to her
now, and I think she will not." Lucyan smiled again.

"Thou shalt not bear false testimony against thy
neighbour," mumbled Aitzig, nodding at the same
time, with his eye upon Lucyan, to show that he was
quite keeping pace with the discussion of the subject
in hand.

Are all our plans organised and working properly? "
asked Lucyan.

Aitzig, before answering, made rapid work of the

two last Commandments, jumbling up his neighbour's
ox, ass, wife, and servant, which he was not to covet,
in somewhat unceremonious fashion. Then taking
the bandage from his head and arm, he hung up the
tablets on a rusty nail in the wall, beside a second
rusty nail upon which there hung a bag, made entirely
of cloth savages, (Aitzig had a cousin in the cloth
line) which bag contained the most precious of all his
garments, his Tales or shroud,  the black and
silver envelopment in which he went to the synagogue
every Sagas, and in which he would some day be
carried to his grave.

"Then the gracious Pan has quite made up his
mind to take this step, and not to mind the risk?" said
Aitzig, turning from the wall and pulling down his
threadbare sleeve over his skinny arm.

Yes ; I have quite made up my mind," said Lucyan,
with a frown. " Set to work at your mole-work as fast
as you can. We have agreed upon all the points, you
know."

"Very well, very well,"  Aitzig passed one hand
slowly over the other ; " it is worth while risking a little
for a fine sum like that, is it not, noble Pan ? Hi, hi,
hi ! "  and Aitzig laughed softly through his nose, and
then stood looking at Lucyan from under his deep
brows.

Lucyan returned the gaze with outward indifference,

but it was not the same indifference, nor so real an
indifference, as that with which he had looked upon
the Jew some years ago. Aitzig had been his instrument,
and Aitzig knew his secrets, and within these
four years there had slowly grown up a certain dread
of his own instrument, and hatred of the man who was
in his secrets. That dread and that fear had not been
there at first, nor had it come all at once ; it had been
the gradual growth of four years. Aitzig had been
one of the steps by which Lucyan had climbed to his
present position ; but it was not a step upon which it
was pleasant to look back ; and unless that step and
all trace of it were entirely removed, how could Lucyan
ever feel sure of his footing on the height ? Aitzig
was a ragged, dirty, slipshod, threadbare Jew ; and
yet, to a certain extent, he held the Marszalek in his
power. A rumour, a suspicion of that unclean transaction
which had passed between them, would have
shaken the ground under Lucyan's feet. To be sure,
the same blow would strike them both ; but the Jew
could not fall far, for he stood low already, while for
Lucyan the fall would be from a fatal height. And
all the more did Lucyan tremble for his position that
he knew the envy which it excited; he had read
jealousy under many an obsequious smile, and it was
not difficult to imagine the cries of exultation which
would greet his fall. Tor the Marszalek, though he

knew he was respected, was too clever to imagine
that he was loved.

He might have seen all this before  and to some
extent he had seen it though the full realisation of
such things can come but by degrees. He had not
quite realised the anxieties, the unrest, the perplexities,
which would be the prize of his position. But
even in moments when these most oppressed him, he
never regretted the price he had paid. The risk was
worth running, after all.

Imperceptibly the footing on which he stood towards
Aitzig had shifted and changed. Aitzig bent
and wriggled and cringed, and behaved as much as
ever like a worm under foot ; but now the worm had
developed a sting, and sometimes that sting was stealthily
advanced. The sight of it made Lucyan shudder ;
for his nerves, which had stood him in such good stead
while he was scaling the slippery height, began to fail
him a little, now that the height was reached.

It was a very strange glance which these two men
shot at each other whenever they met. On both sides
the glance was suspicious and fearful. The Jew knew
that Lucyan feared him, and wished him out of the
way, and for that reason he feared Lucyan. Thus
the fear on each side acted and reacted back upon the
other, so that each was steadily growing, and had been
steadily growing these four years past.

"Aitzig is to set about his mole-work, then," repeated
the Jew, still softly chuckling. "And the
price for the mole-work is fixed, noble Pan. A fifth
of the profit goes into poor old Aitzig's pocket ? "
He gently stroked his threadbare pocket, in anticipation
of the happy moment. It was the same kaftan
that he had worn four years ago, and it was the
identical pocket into which the fifty florins had gone
on that July evening on which Lucyan had tended
his sick rose. No one, from Aitzig's outward appearance,
or that of his household, could have guessed at
his improved fortunes. He had not dropped one of
his old and unsavoury occupations. He plied all the
trades which he had plied before he got the Proving
only that he now had the Propinacya on the
back of them all. He had bought no fresh pearls
for his wife's cap, no new thread plait for his wife's
head, no slippers for himself. The solitary piece of
extravagance in which he had indulged, was contained
in that selvage-bag on the wall. Death is expensive
to a Jew who lives long ; and Aitzig having lived over
sixty years, had worn through two shrouds already.
He had undergone a mental struggle of great severity
before he bought his third : he had considered the
possibility of having the second darned and cleaned,
perhaps with a little silver embroidery added ; but in
the end he had succumbed. The idea of being buried

in a new and faultless Tales  a shroud which should
be high above all criticism of envious tongues,  this
idea was too tempting to be resisted. On the same day
that the Marszalek had first hinted at a new stroke of
business to be done, Aitzig had, on the strength of that
hint, indulged himself in a new shroud.

The fifth part, Pan ? " said Aitzig again.

I suppose so," answered Lucyan, with a touch of
impatience. To any other Jew it would have been the
twentieth or the fiftieth part ; but towards Aitzig his
position was precarious, and yet he dared employ no
other instrument but Aitzig alone. They had fought
a battle, of course, before they came to terms ; only
this time there had been no kicking out of the door,
and no dragging in again by the scruff of the neck ;
and though Lucyan had begun by offering the twentieth
part of the profit, he had been forced to close
at the fifth.

And the gracious Pan will give Aitzig a piece
of paper  just a little piece of paper  to say
that he promises this sum 1 " suggested the Jew,
insinuatingly.

Nonsense," said Lucyan. *' It will be time to talk
of that when the work is accomplished. There is
plenty to do first before you have earned your money.
What have you heard about the land-surveyor ? "

The Belgians are going to take a native engineer 

SO has Aitzig heard,  to survey the land once again,
and report."

Which engineer will that be ? Everything depends
on the man."

It might be old Hunski," said Aitzig, reflectively,
unless he has the trout worse than usual."

Old Hunski would never do," said Lucyan ;
he is a pattern of integrity. Who else is there,
Aitzig ? "

There is Mulskow yet, noble Pan, but he is obstinate,
and has a furious temper ; and there is Eey-
nadski, a red-haired gentleman with whiskers ; but he
is as sharp-nosed as a fox, and of a mistrustful nature.
Then there is Ainsi. He is not sharp-nosed; but
I fear. Pan, that even should his will be good, he will
make a mess of the thing, for he is stupid  Gottt und
die Welt, he is stupid ! "

A little stupidity would do no harm," remarked
Lucyan.

I know the man," said Aitzig, with a chuckle  " I
know the man to suit the noble Pan ; a little stupid,
a little heavy, a little awkward."

"And his soft point? What is it? Will it have
to be money again?" asked Lucyan, grudgingly.

Hi, hi ! " laughed Aitzig. " The noble Pan does
not like to take money from his pocket ; but the
noble Pan will be happy to hear that money would

not do it safely with that man. He is of a grateful
nature, a soft nature, that gentleman."

What will do it, then ? " asked Lucyan, ignoring
the implied taunt which he dared not resent.

Aitzig reflected deeply. " There is another way,"
he said. "Now, if the gracious Pan would tell the
gracious Panii to put on a pretty dress on the day
when that land-surveyor comes, and to laugh a little
(she has a beautiful laugh, the gracious Panii), and
make merry "

Ah, I see," said Lucyan, struck with the idea.
Very good. Is the man married or not ? "

Oh, is he not married ? " cackled Aitzig.

I understand. His wife is ugly ? "

'frightful!"

Bad-tempered ? "

A fury."

I understand," said Lucyan, again ; and he rubbed
his hands. " I will do my part, and you do yours.
See that no other man but this one is sent down to
survey. You can manage it, I suppose ? "

Aitzig will do his best," said the Jew ; " and even
if the wrong man starts," he added, reflectively, " the
wrong man need not arrive. Are there not wheels in
every carriage, and screw-nails in every wheel ? And
for what are screw-drivers unless to take them out ?
Hi, hi!"

CHAPTER VII.

PAY TWO TO MY Queen.

The Queen of Hearts she made some tarts,
All on a summer's day."

Nursery Rhyme.

Some weeks after the conversation last recorded, Kashmir,
having ridden over to Wowasulka, found Xenia
occupied in, what she called, making rose-jam  that is
to say, gathering roses in the garden, with the assistance
of a short-legged, long-faced, and tall-hatted man,
perfectly unknown to Kazimir.

In spite of many and excellent resolutions to the
contrary, this was by no means the first, or even the
second or the third time, that Kazimir had ridden this
way since the day of Wandusia's funeral. In fact, the
less that is said about Kazimir's resolutions at present
the better, as he himself had discovered  for he had
given up making any at all.

Xenia is busy with the rose-jam," said Madame
Torska, the elderly aunt, whom Kazimir encountered

alone in the drawing-room. She looked at him rather
nervously as she said it, and looked from him to the
door, as if weighing her chances of escape. Madame
Torska had never been able entirely to get over the
impression produced by Kazimir's first appearance
through the bushes on the eve of the wedding-day:
she had persisted ever since in treating him as a painful
subject. Besides, she had a rooted dislike to
young men in general  a distrust of the genus as a
whole  which perhaps was the reason of her liking
for Lucyan. For Lucyan was not, and never had
been, a young man in the true sense of the word.
He had no passion, no pride, no temper even ; he was
young, only because he happened to have passed no
more than twenty-eight years in the world.

What a pity ! " said Kazimir, when he heard of the
rose-jam ; for the idea not unnaturally suggested the
kitchen and steaming caldrons. Then, with forced
politeness (for she dreaded the fury of his temper),
Madame Torska asked him to be seated, and grew
nervous when he took a chair, which she considered
perilously near to her own; and she attempted to
keep up a little frigid conversation, although she
fixed her eye firmly on his sword, and held the paper-cutter
concealed under the table, for fear of a sudden
outbreak.

Do you not think it would be safer  better," she

corrected, hastily, for fear of irritating him  " if j'ou
were to join the others in the garden ? "

Kazimir, being only too delighted to hear that the
jam was being made in the garden, and not in the
kitchen, acted very promptly upon this hint ; and
entering the back-garden, where cabbages and beetroot
and rose-bushes grew, found, as has been said, Xenia
gathering roses, while a short-legged gentleman held
the basket for her.

The legs of the short-legged gentleman were very
short indeed ; the length of his face and of his hat,
taken together, must have quite come up to the height
of his lower members. He was freckled, he was bashful,
and he was more than moderately awkward ; for
every now and then the basket slipped from his hands,
and he made snatches after it, and failed to catch it,
and sometimes caught at his hostess's dress by mistake
; and stammered, and begged pardon, and panted,
and finally went down on his knees on the top of the
beet roots, and picked up the roses again, putting as
much gravel as roses back into the basket, in the
excess of his inconvenient zeal. Kazimir, watching
from a little distance, did not know whether to be
more provoked at the unknown individual's clumsiness,
or entranced at the sweet patience with which
Xenia bore it. She never lost her temper once.

You are not used to holding a basket," she laughed

with mock removal. " Do you never help your wife
when she makes rose-jam ? "

"She never makes rose-jam," said the unknown
gentleman's thick voice.

Dear me ! " Xenia was so struck with surprise at
the idea of the unknown gentleman's wife never making
rose-jam, that she was obliged to stand still in what
happened to be a particularly graceful attitude of surprise,
with one arm lifted above her head, as she was
pulling down a high rose-branch. " Dear me ! " she
said, with exquisite pity, ''do you mean to say that
you never get rose-jam at home ? "

No, nor anything as sweet," said her companion,
moodily.

Perhaps you have no roses in your garden," suggested
Xenia, beginning to recover from her surprise,
and breaking off the rose which she had stretched to
reach.

Plenty," said the short-legged man; " but they grow
nothing but thorns."

Xenia stuck the rose she had just broken off into
her hair. " How strange ! " she exclaimed, quite innocent
of any innuendo ; and at the idea of a rose-bush
which grew nothing but thorns, she indulged in a peal
of silvery laughter.

The peal of laughter was so very silvery, and the
pale-pink rose looked so well in her hair, that the

unfortunate gentleman of the short legs forgot once
more that he was holding a basket, and had to make
snatches after it again, and again to kneel down  on
the cabbages this time  and be reproved by charming
shakes of the head, and punished by brilliant smiles.

Kazimir, watching this scene and its variations, became
more and more puzzled, and also more and more
uneasy. Who could this individual be ? A gentleman
lie certainly was not. What could be the meaning of
his presence ? Why was Xenia making herself so very
agreeable to him ? " It is only in the nature of her
angelic goodness," said Kazimir to himself, unconsciously
excusing her ; " she is doing what she can to
entertain her husband's guest." But all the same, this
excessive amiability made him feel restless. It was
very nice and perfectly unobjectionable, of course,
when such amiability was directed towards himself,
for he was her brother-in-law ; but was it not possible
that in the very excess of her sweetness she might be
going further than was prudent with a stranger like
this ? It was not fair upon her ; how could Lucyan
leave her this heavy task ? Where was Lucyan ?

Lucyan was in another part of the garden, watering
his flowers. He could not possibly leave off the watering,
he explained to Kazimir ; Xenia was quite well
able to manage the guest for herself. Who was the
man ? Oh, he had come over to Tarajow on business ;

VOL. II. s

Lucyan believed he was one of those engineers who
were overrunning the country at present ; he was very
gauche, poor man. And then Lucyan had to make a
rush with the rake at Trappisto, who was preparing to
bury a stolen bone in the best flower-border. Trap-pistol,
being baffled in his project, returned whence he
had come, to the kitchen, where he devoted himself to
the sugar which Kobertine was preparing for the rose-jam
; for Libertine was busy with the less picturesque
part of the process. If there was one thing which
Trappisto objected to more than another, it was fasting.
Never, from the days of his earliest puppyhood,
had he been known to refuse anything which, by any
stretch of imagination, could be called eatable; and
now that he was growing somewhat dim about the
eye and somewhat white about the muzzle, his ruling
passion showed no sign of forsaking him. Bones or
crusts, sugar or potatoes, they all came alike, and all
were agreeable. For the rest, he was a dog of much
amiability, with a faint but perpetual wag of the tail,
like the well-meaning weak-minded smile which hovers
round the lips of over benevolent people. Sofar
his propensities were not to be called monastic ;
but, to judge from his grave-digging powers, he had
something of the trappist in him, all the same. It
was this grave-digging which had earned him Lucyan's
hatred ; and far down in Lucyan's heart there was

registered a vow that if ever he could do that dog a
bad turn, that dog should not escape without it.

Leaving Lucy an to rescue his pink and scarlet
geraniums, Kazimir went back to where Marcin was
sitting by himself. But larcin could give him no
information whatever as to who the short-legged man
might be, nor why he was here. Life was a great deal
too short, he explained, to ask after people's names :
he did not care who came, as long as he was not
asked to talk.

Marcin's hand was hanging over the arm of the
chair as he spoke ; and Kazimir, looking at it, was
struck all at once with the great resemblance it bore
to his mother's hand, as he had seen it last. There
was that same wasted and half-transparent appearance
which had so moved him then, and he could hear the
rings rattling against each other, when Marcin moved
in his chair. And yet Marcin had got over the fever,
had been pronounced convalescent weeks ago ; all the
doctors agreed on that point. He had always been
limp, and lazy, and strange ; and it was not easy to
trace the small degrees by which he was daily growing
limper, and glazier, and more strange.

When Kazimir had fumed for an hour in helpless
impatience, he had the satisfaction of seeing the short-legged
man putting down the basket, and taking out
his watch. What he saw on his watch seemed to

startle him a good deal, for he began with extraordinary
energy to hunt for his stick and gloves
among the cabbage - beds, during which process he
managed to tread into the basket, and kick out its
contents once more.

It was so kind of him to have helped  Kazimir
heard Xenia saying ; and really if it had not been for
him she did not know how she could have manasseh
that heavy basket ; and he must come back again
some day so as to taste the rose-jam he had helped to
make ; and then Lucyan, who had suddenly appeared
on the spot, insisted with apparently a last impulse
of hospitality on taking the visitor round the garden.
Kazimir saw them walk off together, in the direction
of the forest, and then standing still at the foot of the
rocky slope, gaze up it and point at different parts
with their sticks, and shrug their shoulders, and make
other various and incomprehensible gestures. Neither
would their conversation have been much more comprehensible,
had Kazimir heard it.

You think it can be managed, then?" said Lucyan,
cautiously, watching his companion with a side-glance.

I think it might be managed, possibly ; I do not
see any reason why it should not be managed."

"There must be no mention of my name in the
transactions, mind ; I cannot suffer that."

There need be no mention. Pan Bielinski j the

Company are not likely to question my report. They
don't care very much where the railway is started, as
long as it is started soon."

Does your survey end here ? "

"No, my survey ends at Lodniki. You know the
lady to whom Lodniki belongs, Pan Bielinski ? Do
you think there is any chance of her reconsidering her
resolution, and selling the estate after all ? The Company
would have found that arrangement most convenient
on the whole."

There is no chance whatever," said Lucyan, with
emphasis. " It is not even worth trying ; she is
a most extraordinarily obstinate woman, and she
imagines that she will get more money by refusing
to sell, and pocketing the payment for the railway
ground alone  should the railway pass that way."

Ah yes," repeated the other with a wink, " should
the railway pass that way;" and the short-legged man
gave a laugh and looked at Lucyan, and Lucy an looked
at the short-legged man and gave a responding laugh.

Yes, she is a most obstinate woman," said Lucyan
again ; " and besides, her temper is  well, not
exactly "

"Ah yes, not exactly good," finished the other
readily. " A sad thing, bad temper is, in a woman,"
he added with a melancholy shake of the head, for the
subject was a familiar one to him.

You would never guess that she was related to my
wife," said Lucyan, watching his companion carefully.
My wife, by the by, has quite set her heart on this
little plan of ours : she would be very much disappointed
if it came to nothing."

"She shall not be disappointed, if it lies in my
power to prevent it," said the short-legged man with
fervour, and then he took his leave ; and as he drove
off in the direction of his bad-tempered wife and his
ill-cooked supper, he thought what a pity it was that
there was in the world so little of that rose-jam which
he had been enjoying this afternoon; and he considered
in his mind what an agreeable day he had
passed, what a good dinner he had eaten, how pleasant
a man his host was, and what a beautiful woman
his hostess, and how glad he should be, could hebe
the means of obliging them in any way that was
possible.

Lucyan, having seen his guest off, returned to the
house, and shut himself into his private business-room,
for he had letters to write. About the same time
aunt Kobertine emerged from the kitchen, and having
with inexorable severity wheeled Marcin's chair
back into the house  for the air was growing cool 
disappeared again in the same direction. Kazimir,
who was standing a little on his dignity, and who did
not chose to look towards the rose-bushes, imagined

that lie was alone in the garden, until he heard his
name pronounced. " Kazirair ! "

He never could hear his name coming thus from
her lips without a thrill of mingled pain and joy; and
he never could pronounce her name without this same
sensation.

The call was obeyed at once, though he looked a
little stiffer than usual.

Will you not come and help me to pick the gravel
out of the roses ? " asked Xenia. " That poor stupid
man has put such a lot in by mistake."

Kazimir began to soften towards the unknown individual
as soon as he heard him called stupid. " What
is that gentlemen's name ? " he asked.

Oh, I don't know," said Xenia, innocently. " Lucyan
said that I was to make myself agreeable to him,
and so I did."

"Yes," thought Kazimir, "so she did." And he
applied himself rather gloomily to the gravel.

Why are you so sulky to-day ? " asked Xenia, after
a minute. "Are you in a bad humour? "

"Not now," said Kazimir, starting as their hands
touched for a moment in the basket.

But you were sulky before," persisted Xenia,
plunging her fingers into the rose-leaves. " I saw it
by your shoulders."

You were so busy," said Kazimir, still with the

faintest shade of stiffness, "that I don't think you
could have seen either me or my shoulders."

But I did ; and it is very rude of you to contradict
me,  and," pouted Xenia, with a quivering
lip, " I can't bear anybody to be angry with me
ever."

"I have never been angry with you in my life,"
said Kazimir, hotly : " yes, but I have once, only
once "  he bit his lip, regretting his imprudent words,
and afraid of having confused her. But Xenia did not
appear confused ; she went on playing with the rose-leaves
quite composedly.

Oh, you have been angry with me more than
once," she laughed, preparing to count on her fingers.
The first time was because I went to Krakow for the
end of the carnival ; don't you remember ? "

I rbiember quite well," said Kazimir, beginning
to lose all sight of prudence, and incautiously putting
his finger on the edged tool which lay so close to his
grasp. " I have been angry with yoU; and you have
been angry with me,  is that so ? "

Angry ? " repeated Xenia, doubtfully, for anger
was a sensation which lay outside the reach of her
power. " I don't think I was ever angry exactly ; but
I remember that I was provoked with you once."

"What about?"

About  about "  Xenia looked down, then looked

lip with a laugh  '' about a pretty widow with golden
hair."

Kazimir's face darkened. " Do you want me to deny
that again ? "

Why do you keep her dog, then ? " asked Xenia,
with a teasing smile.

Poor Trappisto ! "  and Kazimir stooped to stroke
the yellow head lifted towards him. " Nobody cares
for you, Trappisto, but me."

Oh, he is dirtying my dress ! " cried Xenia ;
please, send him away 1 What has become of the
pretty widow herself ? "

She married two years ago," said Kazimir, throwing
a stone after the retreating Trappisto. It was the
first piece of unkindness which Trappisto had ever experienced
at his master's hands ; and in the astonishment
it caused him, he stopped wagging his tail, and
stared back at Kazimir reproachfully.

Oh, she is married ! Then I shall allow you to
keep her dog ;  poor dog ! Do you think he would
like a lump of sugar? I shall give him one this
evening."

Then you believe me now ? "

Yes ; I am not going to be angry with you anymore,
and you must not be angry either about my
having gone to Krakow that time."

"Oh no," said Kazimir, with a sigh. He was a

little startled at the way in which she clung to that
dreaded subject.

I really could not help going," she explained, for
she evidently considered that having gone to Krakow
was a far graver offence than having married his
brother. " It was only on account of the ball in the
salt-mine, you know ; they only give one about once
in ten years."

'' I suppose so," said Kazimir, with his face turned
away. The word "salt-mine" coming from her lips
gave him somehow a painful shock.

It was a very good ball," said Xenia ; " what a
pity it was that you could not stay for it 1 "

"A great pity," he echoed, mechanically. This
sudden reserve seemed to displease her.

You must have forgotten all about that time," she
said, with a shrug. " Why do you never speak of the
salt-mine  "

Because you forbade me to mention it," he said,
in a tremulous voice, not trusting himself to look at
her yet.

Xenia broke into a rippling laugh.

But that was before I married, you know. There
is a great difference between a girl and a married
woman,  don't you think so ? "

Yes, a great difference," said Kazimir. It struck
him as so very strange that it should be she now who

was able to talk of the salt-mine with composure,
while it was he who shrank from the mere mention of
the word.

They had abandoned the rose-basket by this time,
and were sitting on one of the rustic benches which
adorned this back-garden.

"I have often wanted to ask you before," began
Xenia, orowinsf a little more embarrassed  but not so
embarrassed as to prevent the full play of her eyes, 
and beginning to pull forward one of her loose curls, 
I have often wanted to ask you whether you have
still got that blue camellia which I gave you off my
dress; or perhaps you have thrown it away long ago V

The crystal flower, you mean ? '* To Kazimir it
had been a " crystal flower" all these years ; he scarcely
recognised it under its technical name. " Yes, I have
it stilL"

Xenia looked relieved. " But  don't you think that
one ought to give those things back ? One always
does, I think,  and 1 have a coin of yours, you know."
She began slowly detaching a small coin from her
watch-chain.

Kazimir made no answer: but he drew out his
pocket-book and opened it. This crushed, flattened,
and shapeless mass, with nothing but blotches of gum
remaining to show where the crystal-powder had once
clung,  could this really be the same glistening flower

which had dazzled Kazimir's eyes with its beauty and
its brilliancy, that carnival - night in the salt-mine?
He had looked at it often since ; but never, even to
his eyes, had the blue camellia appeared so crushed, so
flattened, and so shapeless, as it did to-day. After all,
there was nothing to wonder at ; things must take
their natural course. The camellia-petals were of cotton
fabric of an inferior quality, and the poudre cristalline,
recommended by the ' Journal des Demoiselles,'
had been a rather cheap compound  for those were
Xenia's economical days, when, held under strict
guardianship, she believed herself to be poorer than
her cousin Vizia. The ball-dress had been copied in
the cheapest of materials, and the parure of camellias
had drifted long since into the hands of some old-clo'
Hebrew,  all except this one flower, which, treasured in
Kazimir's pocket-book, had survived till now. Kazimir's
pocket-book had a strap round it, and the camellia
was many-petalled ; therefore it was perfectly unreasonable
of him to expect that, after four years' time,
the camellia should emerge from the pocket-book as
fresh and as crisp as it had been when first it was laid
there,  it is only true gold or true stones that can resist
the rubbing of the world. And yet Kazimir was
conscious of this unreasonable disappointment to-day.
Dear me ! " said Xenia, with a laugh, " how ill you
have used that flower ! It is so spoilt now that you

won't mind giving it back. Look, the crystal is all
gone ! "

Yes, the crystal is all gone," he said after her ; but
it was at her that he looked, and not at the flower.

"And the coin,  you really want it back? It
would be better, I suppose, would it not ? " She held
it out towards him doubtfully, then withdrew it ; held
it out a little way again, blushed, laughed, glanced
at him under her lashes, and shrugged her shoulders,
with another laugh ; and in the middle of it all, Kashmir,
of a sudden, understood what it meant. She was
flirting with him, laying herself out for his admiration.
He had been slow in seeing it, and reluctant to see it ;
but he could be blind no longer. He was ready to kiss
the very ground she trod on, for she had been his ideal
of womanhood,  and now she was angling playfully
for his compliments ; every look of her eyes made him
thrill with delight,  and now she was darting him
coquettish glances, and laughing as she watched their
effect.

The shock of pain was so great that it took from
him for a moment all the sense of his surroundings.
never till now had he been so conscious of the change
in Xenia,  of the difference between the Xenia of now
and the Xenia of four years ago. She had hardened
without deepening,  she had lost the exquisite freshness
of mind and manner which had given the 

to her beauty. That germ of affectation,
that budding vanity, then only peeping out, had since
grown strong and firm in root. Even those tiny tricks
of manner, so entrancing in the unconscious girl  even
the shy toying with her curl, and half-pettish shrug of
her shoulder  had lost their charm. Her shyness had
been rubbed off long ago ; and yet she still toyed with
her curl, and still shrugged her shoulder,  perhaps
from force of habit, perhaps because she had found
out that it Vvas becoming. But the effect was no
longer the same : it had hardened along with the rest.

Some, although not all of this, Kazimir recognised.
His idol was no longer of pure gold ; but his idol was
still so beautiful that its beauty held him a slave.
The woman he loved had faults  and to-day, for the
first time, he had recognised those faults ; but his love
was not shaken, or he thought it was not shaken.
He could forgive her even this. The pain of the
discovery he had made seemed only to help him to
realise more vividly the surprising force of his own
passion.

Plunged in a whirl of bewildering thoughts, he
started at the sound of Xenia's voice beside him.

Since we are giving back things," she began now,
a little nervously this time, it struck Kazimir, " don't
you think we ought to give back everything ? There
were those letters, you know "

We wrote no letters," said Kazimir, in surprise.

No,  but you wrote some to Lucy an, and Lucy an
wrote some to you."

Yes," said Kazimir, still puzzled.

Well, had you not better give them back ? "

If he wants them, of course ; but what can he
want them for ? "

I don't know ; he might want them, you see ; and
it is not only the letters,  there is also a paper which
he sent you once  something about the Propinacyas, I
think it was."

A copy of the lease," said Kazimir ; " is that what
you mean ? "

Yes, that was it, I think."

Did Lucyan tell you to ask me for these papers ? "

Xenia played with her watch-chain, and grew confused.
" Not exactly, rather ; I was not to say anything
about him. Lucyan said " she broke off,

hastily correcting her mistake, and looked nervously
about her.

Kazimir sat silent, puzzled, and a little suspicious.
He thought of the short-legged gentleman, and he
wondered whether Lucyan had also told her to make
herself agreeable to her brother-in-law. " She is as
transparent as crystal," he said to himself; but in
that same moment he remembered having once, a
little while ago, expressed this sentiment to Vizia, and

Yizia had answered him curtly, " She is as transparent
as shallow water." It was an unkind answer to have
given (Vizia had been ready to bite out her tongue the
moment after she had said it), and the remembrance of
it troubled Kazimir just now.

Lucyan shall have the papers," was all he said ;
but the vague suspicions which her strange request
had awakened were not at rest.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

L7

3 0112 045853097

'..''rf!*"'.V-0

1

A NOVEL

E. D. Gerard

AUTHOR OF ' REATA : WHAT'S IN A NAME '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF THE Tried VOLUME,

PART II. continued.)

CHAP.

Visit.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

XV.

XVI.

XVII.

XVIII.

XIX.

XX.

DISCARDED, .
ALL KNAVES, .
TAKING THE TRICK AND LOSING THE HONOUR,
PAY ONE TO THE KNAVE,
QUEEN AND KNAVE,
BETWEEN PARTNERS,
"REVANCHE,"

JANINA THROWS UP HER CARDS,
HIGH PLAY, .
A Ideal, .

CARDS BETRAYED,
WHICH CARD?
THE LAST TRICK,

PAGE

o
























XXI. COUNTING THE TRICKS, 1

XXII. Casimir REVOKES, 201

XXIII. HANDS AND HEARTS, 215

XXIV. AITZIG's SCORE, . .    .228

(CONTINUED.)

Chapter VIII.

DISCARDED.

Come not when I am dead
To drop thy foolish tears upon my grave."

Tennyson.

Margin," said aunt Eobertine, " here is your soup."
She said it in a whisper as mysterious as though she
were saying to a prisoner, " Here are your chains,"
or to a paid assassin, " Here is the dagger."

Marcin was leaning back in his chair, with his eyes
closed, and his arms hanging limp beside him.

He did not seem to have heard his aunt's address.

Marcin," she said again, reluctantly  raising her
voice, " here is your soup."

There was no response and no movement,

He is asleep," said Eobertine ; and she stole down

the gravel walk on tiptoe, for his chair stood in the
garden, and took the soup to the kitchen fire to be
kept warm, holding the cup jealously covered the
whole time for fear of any indiscreet eye prying into
its contents and discovering the nature of the compound.
This falling asleep in his chair was a common
occurrence with Marcin now. He had been more
usually asleep than awake for weeks past; and the
difference between his sleeping and his waking state
had grown to be so very slight, that it was not easy to
distinguish the two. He had given up expressing any
wish, or apparently feeling any. Even the idea of
getting out of bed in the morning, or into bed in the
evening, seemed not to occur to him unless directly
suggested. He sat in his chair from morning to night
not reading, not speaking, not even listening to the
talk around him ; looking every day a little paler, a
little weaker, a little thinner, and falling asleep now
and then for ten and twenty minutes at a time.

On this occasion he slept longer. Libertine, peering
out of the kitchen door, saw no difference in the
position of the sleeping Marcin. It was a warm afternoon,
but the clouds were drifting overhead ; and
Eobertine looked up at them apprehensively, and
down again anxiously at her sleeping nephew. It
was certainly going to rain ; the swallows were flying
so low that they almost grazed Marcin's hair ; but the

swallows did not seem to disturb him in his sleep.
The gnats were humming loudly by his ear, but
neither did the gnats awake him. There was a distant
growl of thunder in the sky : Marcin slept on
and heard no thunder. Not even the big drops which
fell on his upturned face  the first drops of the storm
were cold enough or big enough to rouse him from
his dreams.

I must wheel him in asleep," said Libertine, as
she reached the chair and turned it rapidly towards
the house. She wheeled it on a few paces, then all
at once she stood still with a start, and remained thus,
standing immovable in the middle of the pathway,
quite forgetting the falling rain-drops. Her hand had
touched the back of Marcin's neck, and that touch
had made her start, for the spot was cold as ice. She
peered down at him with a gaze of horror, then with
an effort stretched out her hand again and touched
his  cold also and stiff; for, gathering courage, she
lifted it now, and it fell back heavy and rigid, and
swung helplessly beside him.

He was dead, and must have been dead for two
hours at least. It could not be called a sudden death,
this end that had come so gradually ; for he had faded
day by day before their eyes, and yet it brought with
it all the terror which belongs to sudden death. The
fever had given to his constitution a shock from

which it had never recovered. Like his mother, he
had seemed to rally from illness only to sink under
its after effects.

And so it came to pass that a second time this
summer a coffin was brought to the Wowasulka house,
and again there was a darkened room and wax-candles
dimly burning round a bed. But the wax-candles
were fewer this time, and there were no blooming
violet - wreaths, for the violets were past long ago.
The rather meagre bunches of roses  cut by Lucyan
from the branches where they would be least missed
were far from rivalling the memory of those violets.
Even that little life had left behind it a greater blank
than was left now. Marcin's life or Marcin's death
made so little difference to anybody, either good or
bad, there was no word either of praise or blame to
be pronounced in his memory.

The mourners watched around him in silence and
awe, scarcely can it be said in grief. How could they
honestly say that they wished he had lived, when the
expression of peaceful contentment on the dead man's
face seemed to be saying so distinctly that he was
glad he had died ? for it was much the clearest solution
of all difficulties, and the simplest way to avoid
all trouble,  if he could not have a quiet life, let
him at least have a quiet death ! There was a general
though unacknowledged feeling of relief when the

day of the funeral came, and the hour of the funeral
approached.

Are the screw-nails ready 1 " asked Lucyan, as
they stood round the open coffin. " Xenia, you had
better go away."

The screw-nails were ready; they were produced.
They were about to be put to their proper use, and
Xenia was just preparing to leave the room, when
there suddenly arose in the passage outside a strange
and unaccountable noise.

A woman's voice was heard in loud and vehement
expostulation with other voices. There were entreaties
and threats, remonstrances and replies : there
were stamps, and rustling, and banging of doors, and
every other variety of noise which, under the circumstances,
was possible.

At least half-a-dozen women must be forcing their
way in, thought the listeners in the darkened room ;
but in the same moment the closed door flew open
with a resounding crash, and there stood upon the
threshold the author of the commotion, having, to
every one's surprise, resolved herself into one woman
alone. Upon the shrouded room and the black-clothed
spectators this woman burst like a substantial flash
of lightning. Her scarlet petticoat seemed to flame
brighter than the candles, her cheeks were flushed to
as brilliant a red ; she was panting, she was covered

with dust from head to foot, aud her shawl had been
half torn off her shoulders in the struggle of forcing
her passage.

Where is he ? " she panted, standing still on the
threshold, and staring before her into the darkened
room, for the glare of daylight was still in her eyes.
Where is he ? " she said louder, as no one gave her
an answer. Then turning towards the bed, and seeing
that there lay nothing but a few crushed rose-heads,
she shuddered with such violence that the
whole room seemed to shudder with her. " Ah, he is
there ! " She had caught sight of the open coffin ; and
with a spring forward, and a shriek which rent the
ears of the bystanders, she flung herself on her knees
beside it, clutching at Marcin's cold hand, and overturning
two candlesticks in the action. The necessity
of stamping out the burning candles was the first
thing which brought the stupefied spectators back to
their senses. The whole incident had been so sudden
and so rapid, that as yet they had only stood and
stared in bewilderment. Was it possible that, after
all, that useless life had left a blank behind it, greater
than they could guess ?

Marcin ! " cried the sobbing woman on her knees 
Marcin ! why was I not sent for ? Why was I not
told ? Why did I not know ? You would not have
died if I had been with you ! Oh, it is unjust, cruel !

You were not meant to die. They let you go, because
they did not care to keep you ; but I  I want you
back again. Oh, Marcin ! "

She was rocking her body from side to side, as she
uttered her wild complaints ; groaning and beating her
breast, and covering the hand she held with resounding
kisses, until it seemed as though she would drag
the corpse out of the coffin.

This will not do," said Lucyan, sternly ; " this cannot
possibly go on."

A painful and distressing occurrence," said Libertine,
with gloomy indignation.

But who is she ? " asked Xenia, trembling in the
background.

The shock touched every one present as disagreeable
the dead man himself seemed to resent this violent
disturbance of his repose.

Leave me in peace ! " the look on his face appeared
to say.

Lucyan had stepped up to the woman already and
touched her on the shoulder. " You must leave this,"
he said, coldly. " The cofhn is to be closed."

Leave him ! Do you know who I am ? "

"Yes." For she had raised her face, as she put
the fierce question ; and Lucyan knew her to be the
apothecary's daughter.

And you imagine that I shall leave him ? "

I insist that you shall leave him."

Force me if you cau ! " She sprang to her feet and
stood in an attitude of defence, looking quite capable
of flying at Lucyan and grappling with him. " You
have no right to forbid me anything ; you were only
his brother, and I "

Enough of this," said Lucyan, with some vivacity ;
"we cannot have these sort of  delicate explanations
here. If you have anything to say "

I have something to say."

Come with me then." He took her by the arm and
drew her across the room towards another door. The
door opened and closed behind the two, and they
were alone together.

Janina sank on to a chair and sat there, facing
Lucyan, and panting for breath. And Lucyan stood
opposite to her, gazing at her flushed face, and reflecting
that his brother Marcin had shown rather good
taste while he lived. Janina's cheeks were flaming
still, and the violence of her gestures had brought her
hair down : it hung in a rough, tangled, but not by
any means unbecoming mass, down her neck and
back.

Although the Marszalek had made his exit from the
next room in what was apparently a burst of virtuous
indignation, the burst had subsided in a most curious
fashion as soon as the door was closed. He contemplated

the woman before him with an approvingly
critical eye ; the eye of a connoisseur, who has grown
practised with experience. It was with much the
same gaze that he was accustomed to contemplate
the pictures of pretty women which had once hung
on the wall of his room. He had taken them down
from the wall long ago ; for a Marszalek, and more so
a Marszalek who is a married man, requires to make
some sacrifices to his position,  but he kept them ina
drawer instead, which was less convenient, though
safer.

Compose yourself, my dear young lady," remarked
Lucyan, after a minute, seeing that the young lady
was very far from composing herself. His tone was
not in the least stern now.

Composure ? Calmness ? Resignation ? " she
broke out, shooting off the three words with the
suddenness of three rockets. " Don't dare to speak tome
of any of those hateful things. Why did you let
him die ? If I had but known that he was going to
die, when I saw him last week ! Ah, he was so tired
then ! he sent me away ; he said I made too much
noise. Oh, if I only could get him back, I should
never make any noise again  never in all my life 1 "
and she burst, as she said it, into a remarkably noisy
fit of tears. " I should be as quiet as a mouse," she
sobbed, getting up from her chair and stamping

violently about the room, in the excess of her excitement.


I loved him desperately," she exclaimed, through
the thick of her stormy tears.

I am sure of it," said Lucyan, in a tone of soothing
concession.

And he loved me desperately."

Lucyan said that he had no doubt of it, although it
was rather difficult to imagine Marcin having done
anything desperately.

Did he not tell you ? " she asked, standing still in
front of him.

It was not Marcin's way to tell things."

"I thought he might have told you," she said in
disappointment ; " he had half promised on the last
day I saw him."

No, he told me nothing, but "

"But what?"

"Well, I rather think I guessed."

You guessed ? " she questioned, breathlessly.
*what?"

"Since she will have plain speaking," thought
Lucyan, "let her have it." Then aloud  "That my
brother was your lover."

She broke into a brilliant smile through the midst
of her tears. " Of course he was my lover ; but he was
something else : guess  it is not difficult."

Lucy an shrugged his shoulders and shook his head,
as much as to say that he could not guess that riddle.

'' My husband ! " she burst out triumphantly. " He
was my husband : I was Marcin's wife."

The listener smiled and remained silent.

You did not guess that, did you ? "

"No, I did not."

And we were married four years ; have I not kept
the secret well ? "

"Most marvellously well."

It was very hard work to hold my tongue," she
went on, while the glow of childish exultation dried
up the tears on her cheek. " I made Marcin call me
by my real name every time he came to see me, and
I signed myself by it over and over again in my
Prayer-book, but I tore the page out and burnt it. I
was ready to burst out with it every time I met any
member of the family. If I had not given Marcin a
solemn promise to keep it secret, I should not have
been able to see the carriage pass with your wife in
it without calling out aloud, ' I am Madame Bielinska
as well as you ! ' " and Janina, carried away by the
thought of the triumph which that would have been,
actually burst out laughing, while the tears were still
on her cheek.

Will you not drink a glass of water, my dear Panna
Wronska ? " asked Lucyan, pouring out a tumblerful.

and holding it towards her ; " your nerves are a little
overstrained, I fancy."

Panii Bielinska," she corrected him, still laughing
hysterically, as she put out her hand towards the
water.

He was silent ; and looking up impatiently for his
answer, their eyes met full. The tumbler crashed to
the ground, and with a shriek she flew towards him.

You do not believe me ! " she cried. " I see you
do not believe that I was married ! "

Pray be calm."

Do you' believe that I was married?" she panted,
with flaming eyes.

I am not a child," said Lucyan, quietly.

You are a monster, then."

Indeed I am not. I quite agree with you in
the main ; you are perfectly right to keep to your
assertion."

It is not an assertion ; it is a fact."

'' No woman is bound to give anything but the best
account of herself," went on Lucyan, disregarding her
interruption. " It may amuse you to call yourself
Madame Bielinska, but"  with a shrugs" you can
scarcely expect other people to do so."

I not only expect, I shall insist on it," said Janina,
with a sudden dignity, which took him by surprise.
I was your brother's wife, and I am his widow."

You have no claim," answered Lucyan, quickly,
for her manner had struck him strangely. To do him
justice, up to this moment Lucyan had not believed
her story, taking for granted that her mind was unhinged
by grief. He had always looked upon his
brother Marcin as a fool, but he did not think that
Marcin could have been quite fool enough for this.
Now, however, the sudden assurance of Janina's tone
impressed him as genuine ; he was too keen a judge
of human nature not to see that she was speaking the
truth ; but, at the same time, he was too excellent a
tactician not to see that his own interest lay in keeping
up the disbelief. If Marcin had married her, so much
the worse for her ; he had no right to marry an apothecary's
daughter, and the apothecary's daughter had
no right to marry him ; she must suffer for her folly.
Therefore he answered quickly, " You have no claim."

I shall get my rights," said Janina ; for the word
claim " had aroused her practical instinct ; and the
practical instinct in her was so strong, that floods of
tears had not sufficed to drown it.

What do you mean by rights ? "

The name first, the money afterwards," said Janina,
bluntly.

Marcin left all his money to me," was Lucyan's
answer.

He did not ; he made no will."

He left it me by word of mouth."

Who says it ? "

I do."

And there is nothing but your word for it ? "

There is no one's word against it. Do you propose
to put up your word against mine ? " sneered Lucyan.

Of course I do ; a widow's rights are better than a
brother's."

'' Strange," said Lucyan, with another sneer, " that
you should come out with this wonderful story the
moment that Marcin is beyond contradicting it."

Contradicting it ! He was to have told it you
himself, if he had lived another week. This is how
it was : That time, four years ago, when I promised
Marcin to keep the secret, I made him give me another
promise in exchange. If ever we had,"  she
hesitated for a moment, hanging her head and colouring
 then looking up straight again, she went on
boldly : " If ever we had the hope of a child, then
he would declare the marriage ; do you understand
? "

Lucyan slightly inclined his head to show that he
understood, but there was no sign on his face to show
that he believed.

Well," faltered Janina, " I have had to wait a lone
time ; but  but my child  our child will be born this
autumn."

Unfortunate ! " muttered Lucy an to himself, but
Janina did not hear him.

"You believe me now?" she pleaded, in a softened
tone. " You believe that my child will be a Bielinski ? "

Lucyan evaded her eye ; turning away, he shrugged
his shoulders in silence.

Why do you not answer ? "

'why do you force me to give you unpleasant
answers ? "

"Ah, you do not believe? You will not accept
me ? " she cried, with a return of her excitement.
"You shall be forced to do so all the same."

"I don't think so," said Lucyan.

I shall prove it."

How ? "

Why, by the marriage register, of course ; we were
married in the Tarajow church."

She had scarcely said the words when there shot
into her eyes a look of panic. A sudden terrible
thought had struck her, and the same thought had
struck Lucyan in the same moment; but to him it
was not terrible.

"The Tarajow church is burnt down," they both
said in the same breath, and they stood looking at
each other in silence, measuring each other with their
eyes. Lucyan was far too well trained to make a
vulgar display of the relief and the triumph which

VOL. III. B

that thought had brought him, but one flash of exultation
he could not suppress, and Janina saw that flash
in his eyes.

But there are other things' she cried wildly ;
there is the priest who married us."

Is that the priest who went mad two years ago ? "
asked Lucyan, calmly.

Yes, yes  but " She began to tremble, feeling

the ground slipping from under her feet. Up to this
moment, with all her excitement and indignation, she
had not really been alarmed ; she had not really
thought otherwise but that he should be forced intime
to bow to the truth of her story. Now only
did she begin to tremble.

And," went on Lucyan, " I suppose you have no
one but your father to support this  excuse me 
ridiculous story of a marriage?"

My father ! My father knew nothing of it. I
kept it even from him ; but there must be something
else ; there must be a way "

Of course there is a way. If you imagine that you
have any rights, and if you happen to have any money
to spend on a lawsuit  it must be plenty of money,
mind  try that way by all means."

Lucyan was smiling again by this time ; for from
the moment that he heard of a Eussian church, the
last shade of apprehension had vanished. He knew

well that, from the slovenliness of such a ceremony,
there need be no fear of witnesses, nor of legal
attestations.

I have no money  none at all ! " cried Janina, all
her short-lived dignity gone, and bursting into miserable
tears as she saw each support, at which in turn
she wildly grasped, crumbling under her hand. She
would not give up yet. It was impossible that this
monstrous wrong could be done. Convinced as she
was of the justice of her cause, it did not seem conceivable
that others should be blind to it. She
stormed, and sobbed, and protested, and Lucyan
looked on without flinching, watching the bright
crimson in her cheeks, and showing in his eyes how
becoming he thought it; humouring her, and professing
to soothe her ; neither agreeing nor contradicting
; goading her on to madness by his smile and by
his gaze.

Pray be calm, Panna Wronska," he said at last,
when the spectacle had begun to wear him, and he
laid his hand on her shoulder. She flung it off violently,
gasping for breath in her despair.

Do not dare to call me that ! Oh, but I will force
you to believe me ! I will swear by everything that
you hold holy  I will swear on the crucifix." She
glanced round as though in search of one.

Don't take the trouble, my dear child," said

Lucyan, with the slightest shrug in the world ; " such
ceremonies do not convince me."

Perhaps you do not believe in the crucifix ? "

Lucyan turned away with a second edition of the
shrug. " We are not here for discussing our religious
principles, are we ? "

Janina stood and stared at the man before her in
horror ; and Lucyan returned the stare with a gaze of
admiration which every moment grew more insolent.
She paled before it, instead of reddening. Slowly the
excitement began to fade from her face.

Ah, you are calming down," said Lucyan ; " that
is right. It would have been a pity to spoil your
pretty face with more tears. Don't you think so ? "

Yes," she said, with a sudden change of tone,
while a stony hardness began to settle over her features.
She drew a deep breath, setting her teeth with
an audible click, and all the time her eyes hung full
on Lucyan in a strained and penetrating gaze which
he could not understand.

You will go home now, will you not ? We have
nothing more to talk about."

And my child ? your brother's child ? " she asked,
heavily.

I regret the circumstance," was Lucyan's cool
answer. Janina did not appear to have heard him,
for she made no movement whatever. He drew a

little nearer, encouraged by this unexpected quiet.
You will dry those black eyes now, won't you ?
You are so good-looking, my dear child, that you will
always find plenty more men to tell you so. Did no
one ever tell you so but Marcin ? " He laughed.

No one," said Janina, slowly, uttering the words
with evident difficulty ; but she did not dry her eyes ;
she had not moved them yet from Lucyan's face.

Then they will tell you so soon, depend upon it."
He put his hand down again on her shoulder, and
this time she did not fling it off, she only shuddered
as it touched her, and closed her eyes for a moment as
if at a sickening sight.

I will go now," she said the instant after, speaking
with that same strange slow thickness of utterance
; and, without further warning, she turned quite
steadily on her heel and walked back the way she had
come.

Staring full and straight before her she went
through the room, not looking at any of the people
standing there ; not glancing even towards the coffin,
which now was closed. With a firm hand she opened
the door and closed it behind her. Her steps were
heard going down the passage. There was one more
distant bang of the door, and she was gone.

Lucy an stood where she had left him, and combed
his hair reflectively. " I suppose she will not drown

herself," he said, thinking of the dull stare of her eyes.
It would not do ; it would look ill." He reflected
for another moment, then laughed aloud. " Straw-fire,"
he muttered; " all straw-fire. Tell a woman she
is pretty, and the flames go out at once."

CHAPTER IX.

ALL KNAVES.

. She is his slave ; she has become
A thing I weep to speak," . . .

Shelley.

When Kazimir said to Xenia, " Lucyan shall have the
papers," there had been suspicions in his mind ; and
when, shortly after that  it had been before Marcin's
death  he had brought a packet of papers to Lucyan,
he openly taxed his brother with some questions. Lucyan
was provoked, and somewhat alarmed ; he had
not meant the papers to come to him in this way ; the
whole thing should have been managed between Kashmir
and Xenia alone ; it was to have been taken in a
lighter, less solemn sense,  viewed from the sentimental,
not from the business-like point of view.
Xenia had certainly mistaken her instructions. But
he was equal to the occasion : there could scarcely
be any possible occasion to which Lucyan would not
be equal. When Kazimir questioned him about the

, ' ' '

Propinacya, Lucyan voiTjintfered every possible information.


Would you believe it ? " he said, with an access of
extra-frankness ; " the Propinacyas now pay me four
thousand florins a-year ! "

The assertion was perfectly true. " I had to put a
lot of money into them, of course," he added, " before
I could get so much out,  renovations, repairs, improvements,
and so on." This was true also : Lucyan
had newly whitewashed the Propinacya building within
the last year or two.

He was carelessly turning over the papers before him
as he spoke. " Old letters," he observed, while with
his sharp eye he marked that the paper he wanted
was not among them. " Nothing but old letters ; I
suppose theycan be burnt? You don't happen to
know, do you, where you have put that paper about
the Propinacya which I sent you once ? Looking over
old accounts the omv day, I found that I had mislaid
my own duplicate. I should have liked to copy it
again."

I looked for it," said Kazimir, " bit I did not find
it ; I remember now having torn it up long ago."

Ah ! torn up ? What an unbusiness-like habit to
tear up business papers ! Quelle Uourderie I Are you
quite sure you tore it up ? "

Quite sure."

\

Well, it is of no consequence. I merely wanted
to glance at it;  that Propinacya is a constant subject
of worry."

"It is Aitzig Majulik who holds it still?" asked
Kazimir.

Yes, it is Aitzig Majulik."

And what  I have thought of asking you this
before  what has become of the old Jew who used to
hold the lease ? "

Naftali Taubenkubel ? I believe he is gone to
the bad,  probably dead by this time."

Kazimir remembered that his mother had always
talked of Naftali Taubenkubel as of a faithful servant.
" Why was Naftali sent away ? " he asked.

"Eeally I cannot remember," said Lucyan, with a
yawn. " He did not suit, I suppose ; I have so much
to think of that I cannot waste reflection upon old
Jews. You have no notion what trouble an estate
like this gives. Don't you think the place is wonderfully
improved ? "

Most remarkably so."

It was very hard work, of course," said Lucyan,
with a sigh of great humility ; " but the drudgery of
work has always been my fate, as the brilliancy of
soldiery has always been yours, Kazio." It did not
often suit Lucyan to remember that he was the younger
brother ; but in spite of all that had passed, he was

able, at convenient moments, to play the part with an
admirable grace and dexterity. " Work alone, I confess,
would scarcely have done it; my wife's money
went a long way. Wowasulka would have been nothing
without a capital to fall back upon."

I suppose not," said Kazimir, doubtfully.

And between ourselves, my dear Kazimir," laughed
Lucyan, " Xenia would have been nothing without the
money either." Kazimir held his tongue, though his
heart burnt with indignation. " If ever you marry,"
said Lucyan, " take care that your wife's charms should
be backed up by something solid."

Kazimir turned and left the room in silence, for
he felt that it would not be prudent to stay ; and Lucyan,
as the door closed, drew a breath of relief. He
had long noted that remark to be made about Xenia's
fortune having been put into the estate. There would
be no danger now of Kazimir ever recurring to the
rest of those fourteen thousand florins which had never
been paid. Meanwhile Kazimir was fuming outside.
If Lucyan chose to speak disparagingly of his wife 
and this was not the first time that Kazimir had been
tortured by these sneering hints  what right had he
to rebel ? And yet he could not trust himself to stay
in the room for fear of knocking his brother down.
He had never got over his first repugnance to see
those two together ; he could not see Lucyan kiss his

wife, or as much as touch her hand, without feeling
the strong desire to rush between them. His blood
boiled at sight of the half-contemptuous admiration
with which Lucyan's eyes rested on her, and of the
scientifically calculating system after which her beauty
was displayed and traded upon ; for Lucyan guarded
her and cared for her as for a distinct portion of his
wealth. His wife was as much a part of his fortune
as his Propinacya or his corn-fields. To Kazimir it
was absolute pain to witness the position in which
she stood ; to mark the slavish obedience, the abject
humility, the nervous fear of the wife towards the
husband ; to see her flurry and her bewilderment, as,
continually stung by a sarcasm which she could not
understand, and tantalised by sneers which she did
not know how to explain, she trembled in helpless
dependence. It was slavery, it was degradation, it
was insult. The sight of it was unbearable to Kashmir,
and more unbearable still was it to see the way
in which she accepted her position. If she had rebelled
and refused obedience, Kazimir could have
borne his own lot better. He lived in daily expectation
of hearing that some catastrophe had taken place 
of being told that since yesterday Xenia had flown from
her husband's house; for he could not reconcile himself
to the thought that she should submit to his
treatment for Ions. It was intolerable to conceive

that she could accept her fate, and sink quietly down
to the level to which Lucyan was forcing her.

And yet by this spectacle Kazimir was tortured.
He was forced to stand by and watch her subjection
without the right to raise a finger in her defence ; he
was forced to see how the weak will bent without a
struggle before the strong one ; and he had noted the
flattered smile which would come to her face whenever
her master vouchsafed her a mark of favour.
Had her chains been of iron they might have oppressed
her; but her chains were of gold, and their
jingle pleased her. It was this spectacle that, of all
Kazimir's trials, was the greatest. The truth had
forced itself upon his eyes, though he preferred to
turn his eyes away. He would not even yet blame
her for the difference and the change in her ; he would
blame only Lucyan. But the difference was there. It
was the difference between the fresh and the wired
flower ; between the rosebud on the bush and the rose
which the gardener has forced open before its time, to
flaunt in the centre of an elaborate bouquet. Anyone
can open a rosebud ; you have only to blow upon
it long enough and uncurl the petals with your
fingers ; but no one can close it again. It was only
natural that Kazimir should turn his anger towards
the gardener who had forced open the rosebud, rather
than towards the rosebud which had been forced.

Taking these sentiments into consideration, it was
fortunate that Kazimir did not hear the words which
passed between the husband and wife that evening.

The paper is torn up," said Lucy an, " so there was
nothing to fear ; but it is no thanks to you that there
is no harm done. As it is," he muttered, " his suspicions
are aroused."

Listen, Xenia," he said to his wife ; " the only way
you can make up for your maladies, is by keeping
Kazimir in good humour. See, therefore, that you doit.
Do you understand ? "

Yes," said Xenia, slowly ; and for a minute she
gazed at her husband with a sort of helpless appeal in
her eyes. Something was alarming her, something
was oppressing her ; in a vague and undefined way
she was conscious of the danger into which she was
being pushed. In the midst of her faltering weakness
she would have kept herself straight if she could, only
she did not know how.

Well, is there anything you do not understand ? "
asked Lucyan, his attention for a moment arrested by
the look on his wife's face.

No, no, nothing." She shrank back at his tone ;
and Lucyan left the room.

He had commanded that the chestnuts should begot
out of the ashes for him ; and it never occurred to
him to consider whether the poor cat was getting its

paws burnt or not. The natural consequence followed.
Lucyan's commands were obeyed, and Kazimir was
kept in good humour. Good humour, however, is
scarcely the word to apply to his state of mind during
this long, delicious, and terrible summer. He made
no attempt to escape from the spell that was on him ;
he never stopped to analyse or reflect. What a difference
there was between the first period of his love and
the second ! Then it had all been joyous, peaceful,
and sweet ; now it was feverish and fierce a restless
passion  one of those fires which burn all the higher
the faster they approach consummation.

Thus week followed upon week, and flower replaced
flower. The roses and carnations had long ago given
up their rights to geraniums and flowering nasturtiums;
and these, in their turn, were beginning to
decamp in favour of dahlias and asters. To all outward
appearance the life at Wowasulka was peaceful,
as became a family in double mourning. That stormy
episode at the funeral had been followed by no others;
the straw-fire had only been a straw-fire after all, and
had left no trace behind it.

Janina was another obstacle on Lucyan's path
which required to be trodden down; and if he felt
any regret in treading her down, it was only because
her eyes were so black and her cheeks so pink.

Of course she could not be a widow," had been

Xenia's verdict ; " she was not in mourning  she had a
red petticoat on ; " while, in aunt Eobertine's eyes, the
one extenuating circumstance about the case was the
general secrecy which seemed to have enveloped it.
There was nothing more heard about the disposal of
Marcin's money. In answer to a casual inquiry of
Kazimir's, Lucyan mentioned that Marcin's small fortune
had been left entirely to him (Lucyan). No one
inquired into the matter or disputed the claim, and
the Marszalek remained in peaceful possession.

There were few visits either made or received at
this time ; and if Aitzig Majulik often came to the
house on business, and if the short-legged gentleman
did occasionally get another dinner with rose-jam for
dessert, neither of these two incidents could be regarded
as dissipation. It was after one of these
dinners, and when the short-legged gentleman had
taken his departure, that Lucyan had another conversation
with his wife. What he told her on that occasion
took her entirely by surprise.

But won't the smoke be very disagreeable ? " she
timidly objected.

That smoke is worth more than gold to us," said
Lucyan. " You will not object to having a little more
money to spend, will you ? "

Oh no ; but,"  a thought struck her,  " how will
Vizia like it ? She has often told me "

I cannot help Vizia," answered Lucyan, coldly.
Of course she will not like it."

Oh, Lucyan I Poor Yizia 1 I am so sorry for her.
She was so kind to me always ; she took such care of
me when I was little. Can't you do anything for her?
Is it too late to change it now ? "

Much too late, even if I wanted to change it. You
don't mean to say that you are crying, child ? Who
knows whether we may not be able now to spend the
carnival in Lwow ? '\

Do you think so ? " asked Xenia, doubtfully,
checking her tears for a moment to listen.

It would not be impossible ; and I have thought
of an opera-box."

Xenia dried her eyes. " Oh yes, I should like
that ; and perhaps," with a brilliant idea, " we can
take Yizia with us to the opera ? Don't you think so,
Lucyan ? "

Perhaps, if she cares to go," said Lucyan ; and
putting on his hat, he walked out into the garden.

He walked right through it to the end which bordered
on the forest, and having reached the bottom of
the slope, he stood looking up at the mass of rhododendron
and Cyrus japonica bushes which he himself
had planted there among the scattered rocks. The
road wound up the slope, plunging right into the
forest above ; and to the right and to the left of it,

Lucyan's petted bushes stood. The trees of the forest-edge
were beginning to turn yellow ; but Lucyan's
rocky shrubbery, untouched by autumn, climbed the
hillside, cold, fresh, and ever green. Lucyan contemplated
it with loving eyes, and with a pang of regret at
his heart. He had placed each shrub and guided each
ivy-trail with tender fingers ; he had clothed the tall
double rock, which he called his " twins," in its cloak
of soft green drapery  had crowned it himself with
that crest of waving fern ; and now he was about to
tear off the cloak and strike down the crest. He felt
at this moment like a painter who is forced to destroy
the picture he has painted. But the picture must be
destroyed. He recognised the necessity; he allowed
himself no more than one sigh of regret before he set
to work to spoil his shrubbery, by transplanting each
shrub in turn to a farther part of the garden, gradually
clothing the slope, and leaving it bare and rocky as
it had been in former days. October is the usual
month for such transplanting operations ; and the
reasons which prompted Lucyan to undertake them so
early in September, must have been others than those
advocated in the pages of the ' Florist's Guide.'

It was not of the ' Florist's Guide ' that he was

thinking, as he worked on steadily at his shrubs ; and

the smile which occasionally played round his lips

had nothing to do with his rhododendrons or Cyrus

VOL. Il c

japonica. He worked on late until the evening, until
the sun had set ; and just about the time that he was
laying down his tools, over at Tarajow the door of the
synagogue was opening, and pouring out of it there
was a long black stream of dark-robed figures. There
were some of them that were clothed in the thinnest
of woollen stuffs ; there were some that wore caps of
costly fur, like monstrous caterpillars curled around
their heads, and others on whose caps there remained
but a few mangy hairs to tell of the fur that had
been; but all were alike black, and all were solemn
of mien, for the Szdbas was just over, and they were
coming straight from their devotions.

The black stream, flowing towards the Place, began
to break up into small black pools. Knots of speakers
were scattered about ; a nasal gabble rose and swelled
through the air. Skinny necks craned, and sunken
eyes glistening, betrayed the keen interest of the topic
discussed. The vultures had pounced back upon the
carrion which they had been forced to drop at the
door of the house of prayer. They were pecking at it,
worrying it, turning it over and over to see where there
was yet another mouthful to be gained.

Eighty per cent," says an old Jew, in satin as
thick as a board, and with a beard that reaches his
waist. " Eighty per cent  fair conditions, very fair
conditions indeed''

I would not have closed at any others," answered
a second, who might have sat for a model of all the
three patriarchs.

Does she guess what is coming ? " asks a third.

She guesses nothing ; but I have seen it coming
long ago. Many a time has she sent for me and said,
Moses Finsterbusch, I must have more money ; ' and
I have said to myself, ' Moses Finsterbusch, open your
money-bag and put in your hand ; for, let her waste as
she likes, will not those fields and that forest give
you back your money ten and twenty fold ? ' Yes ; I
have seen it coming fast."

It will be as fair a case of ruin as I have seen for
many a day ; a pretty case, a pretty case indeed ! "

"And an exceptional case," laughs another Jew,
softly ; " we do not often get a woman by herself. A
brother or a husband might have spoiled much, but
she has no brother; no, and no husband either  nor
will she get one."

A cackling chorus greeted the delicate joke, and
the Jews drew to a closer circle, and fell to whispering
amongst themselves rubbing their horny hands together
 their vulture-eyes shining with cruel greed.

CHAPTER X.

TAKING THE TRICK AND LOSING THE HONOUR.

No stroke,

No keenest, deadliest shaft of adverse fate
Can make the generous plaster quite despair."

Whitehead.

Vizir awoke one morning and looked out of the
window. It was so early still that a faint white mist
hung over the landscape. That look out of the window,
as the first thing on awaking, had become so much a
habit with her as to be quite mechanical.

To-day she rubbed her eyes and looked again ; there
seemed to be something missing in the landscape, 
something gone that should have been there. It might
be the effect of the mist, or it might be that she was
still rather dazed with sleep. Surely between those
two tree-stumps there used to stand a white post?
But rubbing her eyes did no good ; and the mist was
not in fault either, for the mist was slowly clearing
off, and no white post stood between the tree-stumps.

Neither was this post alone missing; three or for
others had always been within range of the windows,
and now they were all gone. No, not all ; Vizia could
just catch a glimpse of the last within sight, but as
she was looking she saw it shake and slowly fall.

It looked like witchcraft, and it felt like a nightmare.
There must be some mistake, and there must
be an explanation of the mistake to be had for the
asking. With an uneasy sense of disaster impending,
Vizia hastily dressed and walked out. Lower and
lower did her heart sink as she advanced. It was all
becoming less like witchcraft, and more like a dreadful
waking reality. There were the very holes in the
earth, the empty sockets whence the posts had been
wrenched, and there, further on, stood a cart, and upon
it a heap of those same posts ; while alongside, two
men were engaged in uprooting another.

They must be taking them up because the railway
is going to be begun at once," said Vizia, resolutely ;
but although she repeated this conviction several
times over, and said it aloud even to make it sound
more plausible, yet the words did not encourage her
as they ought. " I am sure it is that," she said to
herself; "but I will ask those men, just to be quite
certain."

The men were common peasants, just capable of
giving an intelligible answer.

When was the railway to be begun ? They did not
know ; they were not quite sure that they knew what
a railway was. They had been told to knock in these
posts last spring, and they had done so ; and now
they had been told to knock them out again, and
they were doing so equally. That was all they
knew, and all they cared.

Vizia returned to the house as wise as she had left
it. But all hope of peace was gone for that day. It
was useless to try to keep her thoughts from the white
posts ; it was impossible to fix them upon any of her
household duties for more than five minutes at a time.
She walked restlessly from one window to the other ;
she opened books and closed them again, after having
held them for a short time upside-down in her hand ;
she began writing letters, and broke off half-way down
the first page,  until at length, having tried to eat her
dinner, and finding it impossible to get beyond the
soup, she resolved to drive over to Wowasulka at once.
It was hardly likely that they should know more about
the matter than she did ; but it was a chance at least,
and she would try it.

When she reached Wowasulka, Xenia was not in
the house; and going out in search of her, she caught
sight at once of a group among the rocks of the devastated
shrubbery. Lucyan was busy there with the
last of his shrubs ; and Xenia, sitting upon a piece of

flat rock, was watching him. Kazimir was there too ;
and in the background there lingered Aitzig Majulik,
who had come there upon some business-errand (the
factor was frequently seen about the place in these
days, and always upon some indefinite business-errand),
and who was waiting until it should please the 
to attend to him.

As Vizia slowly walked along the gravel-path, she
could see that Xenia was looking up at Kazimir, talking
to him, and smiling at him. Then it appeared
that her eyes had fallen on Vizia,  for she ceased her
talk, and rose from her seat. But she did not comedown
the road to meet her cousin, as Vizia had expected:
she stood for a moment irresolute, and then
she turned in another direction, and went off by a path
through the trees.

*' Surely she must have seen me ! " thought Vizia,
with a sinking" at her heart. " Can Xenia want to
avoid me?" but she kept steadily on her way upwards,
resolved to know her fate.

"Good evening," said Kazimir, coming a step towards
her, with welcome on his face.

"Good evening," said Lucyan ; but he scarcely
raised his eyes to her as he said it, and instantly he
bent them on his shrubs again.

Vizia had not meant to expose, without preparation,
the real motive of her visit ; but there was something

in Lucyan's look, and there were thoughts awakened
by Xenia's unexplained flight, which made it impossible
for her to make even a pretence at conventional
talk.

They have taken away the white posts at Lodniki,"
she said, without either preface or preamble.

No one gave any answer. Lucyan bent lower over
his work ; and Kazimir, struck by her gaze, looked inquiringly
towards his brother.

They have taken away my white posts," said Vizia
again, and more distinctly this time.

Really ? " said Lucyan, forced this time, in common
politeness, to raise his head and look at her.

Yes, really ; and I cannot find out anything about
the railway."

I daresay you will hear about it soon ; " and Lucyan,
as he said it, chopped, in a rather aimless fashion,
at a rhododendron root.

Do you know anything about it ? "

Lucyan met her steady eyes, and could answer
nothing but "Yes."

Has the line been changed then ? "

I believe it has been changed."

It is to be the other line ? "

Yes, it is to be another line."

"The Bruszow line?"

No," said Lucyan , " not the Bruszow line."

He was vainly striving at his habitual calmness.
He had looked forward to this moment as to a moment
of enjoyment  a moment of satisfied revenge.
It would be so pleasant, he had thought, to ruin the
woman who hated him ; but it was not so pleasant to
tell the woman that she was ruined. Somebody else
should have told it her, not he. He wished for no
such coarse-flavoured satisfaction. And yet he was
obliged to look at her, and answer her : her steady
gaze was not to be evaded. Stow that the moment
was come, the invincible Lucyan felt smaller than he
had ever felt in his life before ; and the irresistible
conviction oppressed him that he looked smaller too, 
smaller a great deal than the woman whom he had
helped to ruin.

Not the Bruszow line ? " asked Vizia.

No."

But you know which line it is ? "

Yes," said Lucyan, "I do ; " and he compelled
himself to return her gaze, feeling at that moment as
if he could almost have despised himself for not being
able to do so quietly ; for there was no small cowardice
about him, however much of large villany. " The Belgian
Company has decided to make the line of railway
pass here."

'' Here ? " repeated Vizia, not quite understanding.
Do you mean here, through Wowasulka ? "

"Yes, exactly"  Lucyan gave an uneasy laugh 
it is to pass by here,  the very spot we are standing
on."

I understand," said Vizia, after a short pause ; " I
understand everything now."

These will have all to be cleared out of the way,"
explained Lucyan, speaking rather quickly,  " they
are all going to be blasted ; " and he struck the rock
beside him with the spade he held. The details of the
matter were pleasant to dwell upon than the matter
itself The moment was an agreeable one to nobody,
except perhaps Aitzig Majulik, who, creeping a little
nearer in the heat of his interest, was gazing with all
his eyes, and listening with all his ears.

Through Wowasulka ? Yes, I understand," said
Vizia, quite calmly. " Then I am ruined." She did
not falter or turn pale, for she felt a great deal quieter
now than she had felt in the morning.

'' Gottt und die Welt'' murmured Aitzig Majulik,
they are telling her that she is ruined, and she does
not weep ; they are telling her that she has lost all
her money, and she does not scream, nor tear out her
hair, nor rend her garments. Gottt und die Welt ! but
that woman is strong."

I am ruined," she said again, without flinching,
proclaiming her ruin almost as proudly as she might
have proclaimed a triumph ; for hers was one of those

natures which fear a danger only so long as it is
uncertain, and dread only the enemy who is hidden.

I advised you to sell the estate," remarked Lucyan,
but not with his usual assurance.

Vizia gave him no answer but a look of cold contempt,
and then there followed a painful pause between
them.

Muttering something about looking for Xenia, Lucyan
turned after that minute, and walked slowly
away. It was like leaving her master of the field ;
but he could stand the contempt of her gaze no longer.
He positively shank away among the rocks, a defeated
rather than a victorious man. His ace of trumps
which, peeping from the pack, had appeared to be
such a brilliantly painted card, now that it was thrown
on the table, had shrunk to a wretched scrap of daubed
pasteboard.

I am going now," said Vizia, looking round her
with eyes that were a little dazed. " I am going
home." She had made two steps down the path when
some one was beside her. It was Kazimir, and he
was looking at her with a mixture of pity and indignation
on his face. During the last minutes he had
stood a silent and puzzled spectator, not able to guess
at more than half the truth, but suspecting that there
was foul play somewhere. The only thing quite clear
to him was Yizia's ruin ; and Vizia, being ruined,

became, of course; of much greater interest in his eyes
than Vizia in prosperity.

Do not go yet," he said, as she stopped on the
path. " Is this true, then ? You are ruined ? "

Yes, it is quite true."

And the railway would have helped you ? "

It would have saved me."

They were both as unguarded as though they had
been alone. Neither of them was collected enough to
remember that Aitzig Majulik, hovering among the
rocks close at hand, could hear every word that they
said.

And can nothing save you now ? "

Nothing." She leant against the stone beside her,
and for a moment she pressed her hand tightly across
her eyes ; for she felt strangely giddy just now, as the
dying traveller feels in the desert when the vultures
hover around him, hardly waiting to swoop till his
last breath shall be drawn. After a minute she looked
up again. " I wonder whether I can work," she said.
I could cut grass or draw water, I think, for I am
very strong." She looked down at her hands. They
were not hands to be compared to those frail morsels
of loveliness which Xenia called her hands, but they
were well shaped and ivory-white.

It cannot be so bad as that," broke out Kazimir,
indignant against fate, and against Lucy an, and against

the arrangements of the world in general. " You cannot
be without a home while there is your cousin's
house."

My cousin's house is your brother's," said Yizia.
"Do you see that woman over there in that potato-field
? What is she doing ? "

Digging up potatoes, I think."

'well, I would rather dig up potatoes just like
that all the year round, than take refuge in your
brother's house."

It did not occur to either of them that potatoes are
not to be dug up all the year round. Indeed Kazimir
knew so very little about potatoes, that, even in a
calmer moment, the idea would have failed to strike
him as strange. He stood silent, in very shame that
he could say no word in his brother's defence. He
was forced so thoroughly to sympathise with the sentiments
which made her scorn the idea of living in his
brother's house. " A few years ago it was to have
been my house," he said aloud, half musing. " Would
you have refused its hospitality then ? "

"I  I don't know," she said, with averted face.
"Don't ask me."

This was more cruel than the cruelest thing he had
yet said to her. In the face of this kindness she
began to tremble for her dignity.

You dislike taking help ? "

Yes ; and if your brother offered it I should not
take it."

And if I offered it ? "

You ? " She turned her head, and for a moment
an angry answer burnt on her lips. The idea of
taking help from him, perhaps money from him, was
unbearable to her pride. But then she met his look,
and she saw that he had said it in such perfect good
faith, and with such perfect simplicity, that her pride
could not fail to be disarmed. Against her will she
began to soften and to melt. " From you ? " she faltered,
 " yes ; from you I might have taken it."

But I have nothing to give," said Kazimir, with
rueful regret; "we are both in the same boat, are
we not?" And then those two stood and looked
at each other for a moment helplessly  those two
neighbours that had been beggared in the same game
of cards.

Then is there nothing that I can do for you ? "
asked Kazimir, breaking the silence.

No, nothing  nothing at all."

Can I not take you home at least ? "

No, I had rather not. You can do nothing but
leave me alone." 

But not now, this minute ? "

Yes, this minute. I  I would rather be left alone
at once ; " and Vizia put out her hand to motion him

away. She could bear this terrible kindness no longer.
If you wish to do me a favour, you will go."

He went away instantly, though he found her conduct
inexplicable. He did not turn his head once,
but he puzzled over the shortness of her manner, and
he puzzled still more over the look that had been in
lier eyes when she said that from him she might have
taken help. That look troubled him and made him
wonder ; but he was not able quite yet to fathom its
meaning nor sound its depth. Nothing to give ! Kashmir
honestly believed that he had nothing to give.
He did not know that he had something to give that
would be more precious to Vizia than all the wide
world would be.

Vizia turned and walked a few paces in the other
direction, then, stopping abruptly, her courage seemed
to break down ; for she began to cry.

That is not the railway, and not the ruin," said
Aitzig Majulik to himself, as he cowered in the convenient
cleft which the two twin rocks afforded him.
That woman's heart is broken."

The look in her eyes which had so puzzled Kazimir
had not puzzled Aitzig Majulik at all. He was as
good a judge of the symptoms of love as he was of the
value of a left-off' coat, and he was as well able to estimate
its strength as he was capable of guessing at the
probable number of feathers on a live duck's back,

and measuring their weight by his eye alone. Personal
experience had not guided him here  for no
orthodox Polish Jew has time to fall in love  but as
an article of trade, the passion had come largely under
his notice, and had proved quite as remunerative as
rags or feathers.

She did not cry," reflected Aitzig, " when they told
her that she was ruined" (if she had cried Aitzig
would have esteemed her more) ; " she did not weep
over her money and her fields ; and now she is crying
because of a man's words ; and he is a man who can
make her neither rich nor poor, who cannot even lend
her money ? Gottt und die Welt ! but that woman is
weak !" It was a pitiful spectacle to Aitzig Majulik,
but it was a perfectly clear one. His judgment was
not at fault for a moment. " That woman's heart is
broken," he said ; and issuing from his rocky hiding-place,
he sat down on a flat stone-block, and proceeded
to think out the matter. Every broken article which
he had come across in his life had been made to yield
to him some small percentage of gain. The question
in his mind was now, how much could he make out
of a broken heart ?

He thought and thought, and knit his shaggy brows,
and gnawed at his dirty fingers, and could reach no
issue. For all his thinking, he was not able to arrive
at any bargain to be immediately concluded. The

broken heart must be put aside for the present.
At home, in Aitzig Majulik's dwelling, there was a
dark and dingy closet, with several worm-eaten shelves.
At the bottom of that closet there stood broken chairs,
and wheels, and bird-cages, and on the shelves were
ranged broken bottles and boxes, stringless violins,
and battered candlesticks. They were none of them
forgotten, but they were all standing there waiting
each for its opportunity in life. It was into a closet
very like this, if less tangible, that Aitzig for the
present stowed away Yizia's broken heart.

VOL. III. f D

w

OF ILL. , ,

Chapter XL

PAY ONE TO THE KNAVE.

I am not in the giving vein to-day."

King Richard III.

Lucian had thrown away his old pocket-comb and
bought a new one in its stead. It had been a faithful
friend that old comb, and a close companion for years
past. Many a brilliant idea had it combed into his
head, and from many a puzzle and a worry had it
combed him out. But now the ivory had turned yellow,
and the stem was splitting. It had grown into
a decrepit and toothless old servant whose serving-days
are over. To use a thing so long as it can be
used, getting all the good out of it that can be got,
and then to throw it aside without a pang, belonged to
the very essence of Lucyan's nature ; and the old
comb, which had grown yellow in his service, was
cast ruthlessly on the dunghill, from whence Aitzig
picked it out next day as a thing by no means to be
despised. The new comb had severe work before it,

and therefore it was that Lucyan had chosen it extra
large and strong, of smooth thick ivory, and with a
case into which it neatly fitted. The stress of brain-work
indeed was so heavy at present, and had been
so heavy lately, that its weight had much accelerated
the old servant's collapse.

And not to the servant only, but to the master far
more, had the last few months been a strain and a
trial. Throughout all the summer he had been working
his way towards one end, and he had reached his
object now, but it had been no easy matter. It had
required thought, it had required tact, it had required
some money, too, before he could attain the double
object of revenging himself on Vizia and realising the
large sum which the railway-ground would directly
pay him. Above all, it had required Aitzig Majulik.
He would most certainly have failed without Aitzig
Majulik to guide his craft through the labyrinth of
unclean channels which alone could land him on the
desired shore. He had succeeded in his object perfectly.
The neighbourhood was surprised by the announcement
that the railway-line was to pass through
Wowasulka ; but the neighbourhood never dreamed
that the Marszalek had played anything but a passive
part in the matter. No suspicion of underhand intriguing
and plotting was afloat, f the Marszalek had
looked rather thin and careworn lately, there were

plenty of reasons for explaining that. The loss of his
only child, the heiress to his fortune, would have
amply explained it by itself.

The object was gained : the shore was reached, and
yet Lucyan looked as careworn as before. During
that passage over those muddy and somewhat perilous
waters, he had been forced into a closer and more intimate
contact with his repulsive steersman than ever
before. The Jev/'s grotesque peculiarities were a constant
trial to Lucyan's fastidious taste, and never had
they been pressed upon his notice as now. The growing
familiarity, the false humility, and the leering
impertinence which it covered, had daily been becoming
more odious as well as more distinct.

There was in every one of Aitzig's glances a sharp
suspicion, ever on the watch ; for Aitzig, knowing himself
to be hated and feared by the master whom he
had served too well, hated and feared that master in
an equal degree : and reading that fear in the Jew's
eyes under the shield of his abject humility, and
through the midst of his half-hidden insolence, Lucyan's
own fear caught fire again, and scorched him
with its flames.

Indeed he was not himself in those days, or ho
would have had no difficulty in shaking off these
morbid sensations. *The strain had told up(>n him,
and his nerves were shaken. It is only a robust

organisation which can bear such a strain without
feeling it, and Lucyan's organisation belonged to the
delicate order rather than to the robust. Precisely
those nerves which are the most keen and sensitive,
are the most easily unstrung when once they have
reached the limits of their endurance. Lucyan tried
stimulants and tried exercise without having succeeded
in regaining the tone of his constitution. His sleep
became broken and his days restless, while his appetite
began to forsake him entirely. So much had he got
to hate the sight of Aitzig, that he had fallen into the
habit of listening with a sort of nervous apprehension
for the sound of the factor's step. The very smell of
garlic had grown loathsome to him beyond power of
expression. Aitzig was the one obstacle in his path
which he had not been able to tread down, which he
dared not tread down for fear of tripping over it and
breaking his neck.

But there was another reason now, and a mighty
one for him, which made him fear the sound of Ait-zig's
step. Whenever Aitzig entered the house now,
whether it were morning or evening, in rain or in
sunshine, it was always to press on one point that
he came.

The Belgian Company had agreed to pay down to
Lucyan 'thirty thousand florins for the railway-ground
and station-house which was to stand within the

Wowasulka estate. It was a high sum; but it had
been Aitzig Majulik's interest to have the ground
taxed high, and he had succeeded in having it overtaxed.
The money had been paid down, as arranged,
in the most above-board and business-like fashion
possible ; and the moment when the crisp bank-notes
were handed to him by the plenipotentiary of the
Freres Longuebourse, was to Lucyan, in the midst of
his worries, a moment of the most exquisite enjoyment
 perhaps, on the whole, the happiest moment in
his life. The sight and sound of money had always
had a strong influence upon him ; and it was an influence
which had grown incalculably stronger with
years ; for gold is like a poisoned water, which never
abates a man's thirst, but makes him thirstier the
more he drinks of it.

The bank-notes were clean and crisp, and Lucyan,
when he was alone again, gazed at them in a sort of
rapture. But then there arose the dreadful thought :
It is not all mine ; the fifth part has been promised
to Aitzig Majulik." The fifth part of thirty thousand
is six thousand. Six thousand whole florins ! Was
it a wonder if he hated the Jew ? Was it a wonder if,
now that the object was gained, he almost succeeded
in persuading himself that he could have gained it
without Aitzig's help ? Was it a wonder if he put off
the evil moment from day to day and from week to

week ? It would have to come some day, lie knew,
but with all his power he would drag out the time.
It would be such a wrench to separate those brotherly
bank-notes ; it would be such a pity to break into the
round sum of thirty. Twenty-four thousand sounded
so much less complete ; there was not the same satisfactory
neatness about it. And yet the evil day would
come. Aitzig, if driven to extremes, had ways and
means at his command. Fortunately, thought Lucyan,
the term for the Propinacya lease was over. It was
perhaps not likely, for many reasons, that Aitzig would
have dared to refuse payment ; but yet it was as well
that the term should be over. Perhaps also there
hovered on Lucyan's mind a vague, indistinct, and unformed
hope. Aitzig was an old man  a man not
many years short of seventy ; how, if it were decreed
that he should be gathered presently to his forefathers
? The thirty thousand need not be separated
then.

These thoughts, and such as these, were in Lucyan's
mind, as he sat at his writing-table, passing his banknotes
in review. He had done so dozens of times
before, but it was a charm which ever grew ; they
looked so well-packed and so full of meaning in their
business-like packets of a hundred florins each ; each
florin stared at him so expressively as he handled it.
But he was not half through his review, when he

paused in the counting, and raised his head to listen.
There was a step outside  a shambling, shuffling step.
That was the step he dreaded. Aitzig Majulik was
coming again to press him for the money. He must
brace himself anew for one of those scenes which had
begun to weary and disgust him, and to which he yet
could not quite resolve himself to put a stop.

Quickly he swept the bank-notes aside and locked
them away out of sight. Lucyan knew better than tolet
the Jew's eyes rest on the notes exposed; judging
from himself, he was certain that their direct influence
must be fatal.

Aitzig, creeping in at the door, did not find Lucyan
at the writing-table; he found him pacing the floor
with a studiously slow step, passing the comb, the new
ivory comb, through his hair.

What have you come for, Aitzig ? " asked Lucyan,
standing still.

Aitzig, closing the door and stealing forward, gave
a hideous giggle. " The noble Pan knows what I have
come for, but it pleases the noble Pan to pretend that
he does not know."

What do you want ? "

If it gives any amusement to the gracious gentleman
to pretend that he does not know," said Aitzig,
deaf to the question, " the gracious gentleman can of
course do so. Who is Aitzig, that he should object ? "

What do you want ? " said Lucyan again.

I want the money," replied the Jew.

He came to a standstill beside the door,  for his
lifelong habit was still strong upon him. Over his
arm there hung something black and long, that was
folded together for greater convenience, and from
between the folds of which a silver stripe peeped out
here and there to catch the light.

Have I not forbidden you to come to the house ? "
said Lucyan, sternly. " People are beginning to notice
your constant presence, and to remark upon it."

Oh yes," sniggered Aitzig, " the noble Pan has forbidden
poor Aitzig to come to the house."

Well, and are my commands not to be obeyed ? "

No doubt, no doubt ; but Aitzig, being on his way
to the synagogue, could see no harm in coming inhere
as he passed, just as he was, with his Tales over
his arm." Aitzig, as he spoke, gently patted the
brand-new shroud,  for it was his shroud he carried
with him.

When you have anything to say to me," went on
Lucyan, quickly, " you should wait outside to say it, 
at the end of the garden, or in the forest  that is, out
of sight of the windows," he added to himself.

The noble Pan knows that I have something to
say to him."

But I have no time to hear it now,  I am in a

great hung, Aitzig ; T have been called to Lwow for a
meeting ; in less than an hour I must start. I will
hear you another day, Aitzig."

And another day the noble Pan will be weary from
his journey; and the day after that I will come, and
find the house empty, because the noble Pan is gone
to his fields ; and thus the time passes, and Aitzig gets
not his money."

You will get it in time," said Lucyan.

Of course I shall get it in time," answered Aitzig,
sharply, for a moment dropping his abject tone, while
at the bare suggestion of not getting his money, his
sunken eyes gleamed as bright as hot coals. "Of
course I shall get my money."

"Yes, yes," said Lucyan, shuddering a little at that
look of Aitzig's. " Yes, yes,  of course."

But the gleam in Aitzig's eyes was only momentary;
in the next minute he had sunk back already into his
cowering attitude, and resumed his nasal whine.

The noble Pan is not going to be hard upon poor
old Aitzig, who has served him so faithfully and so
well,  who has obeyed his commands, and followed
at his heels like a dog."

I have told you that you shall have your money."

Who but Aitzig," 'went on the factor, " could have
done this thing ? How Aitzig has worked, and spoken,
and pressed to get this thing done ! And now the

thing is done, and the railway comes here, and the
men are busy already with the ground over there by
the forest,  the noble Pan can see them if he walks
into the garden ; and Aitzig, who looks upon it, and
says, ' This is my work,'  is Aitzig to linger and wait
for his payment ? "

Enough, enough, Aitzig," said Lucyan, irritably ;
I have no time for this to-day,  I am in a hurry. I
have not got the money at hand just now."

The noble Pan loves to say that he has not the
money at hand, and he has but to stretch out his hand
and reach it ; and the noble Pan has plenty of money
more,  more money than the people can guess. Hi,
hi ! He has been so clever, the gracious gentleman,
that all others have been as fools beside him ; but not
Aitzig Majulik,  oh no, not Aitzig Majulik ; hi, hi ! "

Hold your infernal chatter, dog, in God's name ! "
said Lucyan, between his teeth.

Aitzig is a dog ? " whimpered the Jew ; " poor old
Aitzisj is a doo to be kicked and trodden. Thus does
the noble Pan use his faithful servants. He turned off
Naftali Taubenkllbel, to starve in his old age, and
would he not like to turn off Aitzig Majulik ? "

Yes, if he dared," thought Lucyan to himself ; but
he made no answer to the Jew.

His brother," chattered on Aitzig, " the gracious
Pan Kapitan,  he would not serve his servants in that

manner : for he is a great gentleman, an honourable
gentleman, the Pan Kazimir. If the Pan Kazimir
were master of Wowasulka, then "

Then ? Yhat do you mean by then ? " questioned
Lucyan, quickly, turning rather pale as he spoke ; for
the idea thus betrayed struck him with vague alarm.
If you are not satisfied with your master, why do
you not go and look for another ? " The words were
mere hollow mockery. They both knew well enough
why Aitzig could not go and look for another master.
It had long been clear to both that for Aitzig there
could be no other master than Lucyan, and for Lucyan
no other servant than Aitzig.

Mean ? " echoed the Jew, wriggling a few steps
nearer. "Aitzig means no harm; he makes no reproaches
; he wants but his money ; he asks but for
that,  the money which is his  the fifth portion of
the profit."

Hush, in heaven's name,  hush ! " said Lucyan ;
not so loud. You need not yell out our transaction,
so that the whole house should hear it."

He was not yelling,  he was whispering; but to
Lucyan's overstrained nerves it appeared as though
all the ears of the neighbourhood must be reached by
that hoarse whisper.

The fifth portion of the profit," repeated Aitzig, ina
lower, hoarser whisper. " The noble Pan has not

forgotten our terms ? Ah, no ! I see that the noble
Pan remembers well. When shall I have the money 1 "

When I have time to attend to the matter."

If the noble Pan would name a day  if he would
say to me, ' Aitzig, your money shall be paid to you on
Monday, or on Wednesday, or within the week

I cannot possibly name a day exactly. I shall be
away at Lwow for several days now."

Shall it be Tuesday ? " suggested the Jew, with an
insinuating smirk.

No, it cannot be."

Wednesday?" pressed Aitzig, in a yet softer voice.

I shall be busy on Wednesday."

Within the week ? before the end of next week ? "

I have bound myself to no time," answered Lucyan,
writhing to escape. " You shall have it whenever
it is convenient, and it is not convenient to-day.
I must have peace to-day, do you hear ? "

Peace ! " said Aitzig, reflectively. " Yes, I hear."

He stood silent for a minute, with his eyes so
completely in shadow that their expression was not
to be read. Lucyan, taking up his hat, and blowing
some dust from his coat-sleeve, was striving to appear
as if he had forgotten Aitzig's presence, but not succeeding
so well as he might have wished.

If," began Aitzig, after that pause, " if the noble
Pan desires peace, he can have it easily."

How ? " asked Lucyan, with a sigh of sheer
fatigue.

He has only to give to poor Aitzig a piece of
paper  a little piece of paper  which says that he
owes him the six thousand, florins."

A voucher ? " repeated Lucyan, suspiciously.

Yes, they call it so ; only a little piece of paper.
And when Aitzig has that paper, the gracious Pan
shall have peace. Aitzig will press him no more.
The gracious Pan shall have peace for a month, a
whole month, after Aitzig gets that paper;" and in
the breathless eagerness of his speech, Aitzig went off
into a fit of coughing which shook his lean frame
from head to foot.

Lucyan, pausing in the brushing of his coat sleeve,
stood and listened to the insinuating words. Peace !
Peace was the very thing he wanted just now; peace
and respite from the dreaded moment. Would it not
be worth buying at the price of that scrap of paper ?
It was a thought to be considered at least; and in
order to consider it the more easily, Lucyan mechanically
drew out his comb-case and opened it. The
case was empty, the comb had never been put back
there ; it must have slipped out of his hand in the
beginning of the interview (for the new ivory was still
as polished as glass), and he had never noticed it.
He cast his eyes about him hastily with a feeling of

uneasiness, a sensation of something wanting, something
positively incomplete about himself; for such a
thing as to have dropped his comb unnoticed had
never before happened to him. This trifling incident
disconcerted him almost more than anything he had
ever experienced. He seemed to have lost his bearings
and his cue as he looked about in vain for the
comb. And all the time Aitzig was pouring out a
gentle stream of arguments, soothing, tempting, and
dazzling ; they entered Lucyan's soul by his ears, and
crowded upon him more and more, until the temptation
of ridding himself of Aitzig's presence, and of
thinking that he had rid himself of it for a whole
long month, became too urgent to be resisted. He
would need no longer then to listen nervously for
that hateful step in the passage, which had grown to
haunt him even in his dreams.

Scarcely aware of it, he was walking towards the
writing-table already. He sat down slowly in front of
it, and drew out a sheet of paper. He had not exactly
resolved to do this thing as yet, and he was not able
at this moment to analyse the matter calmly; but
he was strangely tempted by the idea of immediate
peace, and mechanically he smoothed out the sheet,
and tried the point of his pen.

Well ? " he said, turning his head towards Aitzig.

Aitzig, leaving his place by the door, stole forward

towards the table. He came along cautiously on tiptoe,
with his eyes cast about him, almost as if he
expected a trap laid in the carpet ; and Lucyan saw
him come with that same suspicious look, almost as
though he suspected a dagger under the kaftan.

Aitzig suggested the words, dictated them almost,
and Lucyan wrote, without once protesting, as though
under a spell.

It was drawing near to the hour of the synagogue ;
and as he dictated, Aitzig took the shroud from his
arm, and hastily shook out its folds.

Yes, noble Pan, that is the way, that is the way,"
he murmured, throwing the black garment about his
shoulders in order to save time ; and as he followed
the strokes of the signature, he hugged himself in his
shroud.

So entirely had Lucyan's faculties been wrapped in
the paper before him, that he had never noticed
Aitzig's manipulations. Looking up now from the
last letter of his name, he started at the sight before
him.

There stood the gabbling Jew, with his claw-like
hand stretched out for the paper  his eyes burning ina
fever of impatience for the moment that he should
clutch it  and his death-cloak hanging around him.
It muffled him in its blue-black folds; the silver
stripes set off the shrivelled skin, the hooked nose,

the corkscrew curls, with a ghastly grotesqueness of
frame.

It was an ugly sight, and yet, strange to say, nothing
beautiful that he had ever seen in his life had
appeared to Lucyan so entrancing as this picture of
Aitzig in his shroud. It seemed to show him all at
once and distinctly what was the thing he wanted.
If only he could see Aitzig thus  see him wrapped for
good and all in his shroud  how easy would everything
be then ! No more danger then; no more dread.
Those thirty thousand florins in the drawer need not
be parted. Who could trace, then, the step by which
he had climbed to his present height ? The ghost of
the past would then indeed be laid.

With a sort of fascination he sat and gazed at
Aitzig, and as he gazed, Aitzig broke into a second fit
of coughing more violent than the first. Yes, he was
an old man, to be sure. It would not be strange if
some day  some not very distant day  he were to
break down.

The sight of Aitzig coughing in his shroud appeared
only to have enhanced the impression made by Aitzig
simply standing there in his shroud. The factor could
not imagine what reason induced Lucyan to sit and
gaze at him with a look so fascinated, almost so admiring.
If he had looked at his beautiful young wifelike
that it might have been comprehensible ; but an

VOL. III. E

old Jew in a shroud ! Aitzisr did not understand ito



He stood there coughing and wondering, but never
withdrawing the outstretched hand which waited for
the paper, even though his whole arm shook from the
violence of the paroxysm.

Lucyan looked from the yellow hand up to the
watchful eyes, and hesitated. He looked again, and
the paper which he was holding out already, was
unexpectedly withdrawn. Perhaps something too expressive
in the clutch of that hand had frightened
him. Should he give it, or should he not ? He was
not enough master of himself to answer the question
coolly ; but he retained just enough self-command to
check himself on the very verge of an act of rashness.

No, Aitzig," he said, leaning back ; " not to-day.
Come back on Wednesday, and you shall have the
paper. I must sleep a night over this,"  he passed
his hand over his damp brow  " and," he added to
himself, " I must find my comb first."

Had it not been so very near to the hour of the
synagogue, the battle might have begun anew. But
Aitzig had run himself too close already; and Lucyan's
carriage was at the door.

The paper, written and signed as it was, was pushed
back into the desk ; and Aitzig's eyes followed it till
it disappeared, and remained on the spot where it had
vanished. It was a comfort to him at least to know

that the paper was lying there with the full signature
to it. Partial though the victory was, he must be
content for to-day. He saw the paper put into the
desk  he saw the desk-lid closed  he marked how the
Marszalek's hand shook in the action  and he marked
another small circumstance besides, which took deep
root in his memory; and it was just then that the
carriage came to the door for Lucyan.

In another five minutes the carriage was bearing
Lucyan away; and Aitzig was hurrying along the
road towards Tarajow.

But in the empty room, where the evening shadows
were falling now, a spiteful imp was laughing to itself.
The lost comb lay under the writing-table ; and as it
peeped out cautiously from its concealment, its white
teeth seemed to gleam through the shade in a grin of
diabolical glee.

Chapter XI L

QUEEN AND KNAVE.

Deny was man schwarz auf weiss besitzt
Ann man detroit each House tragen." 

Goethe.

Xenia had found an old wooden lamb, with half the
paint sucked off ; and the sight of that lamb made her
sit down where she had found it in a corner of the
empty nursery, and begin to cry. Her thoughts had
not been much with her dead Wandusia lately. She
had shed many tears at first, and immediately after
her bereavement had written a most touching letter
to a friend at Krakow, in which she described herself
as sitting between a cradle and an open grave ; but
of late her thoughts had been very busy with something
else  something which she did not quite understand
herself When, however, she met anything that
reminded her of Wandusia, she always sat down and
cried for a few minutes at a time. Nothing had so
vividly reminded her of Wandusia for long as this

sucked wooden lamb ; and therefore she cried for
several more minutes than usual.

I remember so well bringing it back from Lwow
for her, and she was so pleased with it, poor darling ;
and I had on my new mauve dress that day, with
shaded ribbons in my hair."

The wooden lamb looked at her so reproachfully
that Xenia felt an impulse to do something unusual.
She therefore went out into the garden and gathered
a great bunch of blue asters (she knew that Lucyan
did not like her meddling with the few remaining roses),
and with the flowers in her hand she started for the
churchyard near Tarajow. When she looked back upon
this day in after-years, it was always with a certain
surprise and unqualified admiration of her own courage.
She was not used to taking walks alone ; or,
for the matter of that, to taking walks at all. This
walk to the churchyard was decidedly the most
courageous act of her life. Had the influence of the
wooden lamb not been so strong upon her, she never
would have been capable of anything as rash, not to
say reckless (regarded from a Polish point of view),
as to walk without protection for half an hour along
a country-road. If Lucyan had been at home she
would not have dared to do this ; for Lucyan objected
to her fatiguing herself thus ; and he particularly
objected to any visits to the churchyard, as the

unavoidable result was red eyes. But Lucyan was
away at Lwow still, and would not be back till the
next day.

Early in the afternoon, Xenia started with her
bunch of asters in her hand ; and about an hour and
a half later, she returned with only a few blue flowers
remaining, which she had stuck into her waistband,
for the colour happened to harmonise with the dress.

But she was not thinking of the asters now, nor of
her dress, nor either of Wandusia's grave. She reached
the house almost running ; and breathless and scared
she sank into a chair, and closed her eyes to recover
herself.

Never again, in all her life, she vowed with her
returning breath, would she take a country-walk alone.
Her first experience of the kind would certainly be her
last. All her ardour of two hours ago was quenched
beyond revival, and the wooden lamb was superseded
by quite another image now ; for she had had a fright
on the way back, and she was still trembling at the
mere thought of it, and shedding hysterical tears.

When the hysterical stage was passed, there followed
a violent desire to confide her adventure to
somebody. She was as little able as a child of keeping
her troubles to herself, and quite as little able as a
child of bearing them alone. But no possible confidant
was at hand ; Lucyan was away, aunt Kobertine was

out, Vizia had not been near the house for weeks.
Surely aunt Eobertine must be returning soon ! Xenia
did not venture to go out into the garden, for fear of
seeing again that terrifying figure which had so scared
her on the road, but she went to the door and peeped
out impatiently. When she had looked out three or
four times she grew frightened again, for she saw someone
coming through the garden ; but in the next moment
her fears vanished. It was only Aitzig Majulik,
whom she had grown so used to seeing that his presence
appeared quite natural at any hour of the day.

Is the gracious Pan returned from Lwow ? " inquired
Aitzig, as he approached the door.

No, he is not back yet," said Xenia.

Aitzig silently rocked his head, in what was meant
to look like dumb despair, just as if he had not before
known what the answer would be.

But perhaps the gracious Pan has left directions
with the gracious Panii," asked Aitzig, cautiously.
Did he not make a note of something that was to
be given to Aitzig Majulik ? "

"Xo, he left me no directions at all; he never
does."

Aitzig rocked his head more violently than before,
and began softly to wring his hands and gently to
utter groans.

Is there anything the matter ? " asked Xenia,

rather startled. It was always disagreeable to her to
see any one suffering ; and Aitzig looked at this moment
as though he were in a fit of the most acute
pain. She had left the doorway by this time, and
had returned into the drawing-room, where Aitzig
followed her,

"Yes, there is much that is the matter," began Ait-zig,
as noiselessly he closed the door, speaking in a
mournful, dreary tone, like the minor chord of a barrel-organ
 very much out of tune,  " there is much that is
the matter. Times are bad, and poor old Aitzig has
got to toil from morning to night to supply his wants,
and the roads are dusty, gracious Panii, and hard to
tread."

"But I cannot help yon," answered Xenia, somewhat
overwhelmed by this panorama of misery unrolled
before her eyes.

Aitzig had a notion that she could help him, but
the opportunity was not quite ripe yet, so he went on
in the same minor key.

And to-day I come to ask for the thing that has
been promised me, and the noble Pan is not returned,
and I have to go disappointed home."

What has been promised you ? " asked Xenia.

Only a little bit of paper."

A bit of paper ? "

Yes, a paper,  a business-paper,  that is all."

But I know nothing at all about business," said
Xenia, honestly.

Ah no : why should a beautiful lady like you know
anything of business 1 " sighed Aitzig. Of course she
knew nothing of business ; and just because he knew
that she knew nothing of business was the conviction
steadily growing upon him that she had the power to
help him. " What was the paper about, did the gracious
lady ask ? " said Aitzig, drawing out his words,
so as to gain time for thought. "What else should
it be but about the Propinacya which gives so much
work to poor Aitzig ? "

The Propinacya, he had rapidly concluded, was the
safest stalking-horse to choose.

Oh, about the Propinacya ! " repeated Xenia, turning
rather pale again ; for the Propinacya had played
a prominent part in her fright of this afternoon.
It was about the Propinacya that that dreadful old
man spoke to me to - day ; oh, he frightened me
so 1 " and she sat down and began deliberately to
tremble.

An old man ? " asked Aitzig, curiously. " What
old man has dared to frighten the gracious lady ? "

Xenia looked at the factor and hesitated. He was
very dirty and very ragged, and he was a Jew, but
at the same time he was a human being with ears
to listen to her story, and a tongue to answer her,

even if not a soul to sympathise ; and after a very
little more fencing, she began to pour out her adventure.


She had been on her way back from the churchyard,
where she had put the asters on Wandusia's
grave (save those kept for her belt), when all at once
upon the road she had been stopped by an old man,
an old few in tatters, and bent upon a stick. "Are
you the lady of Wowasulka ? " he had asked her; and
when she said " yes," he had stood in front of her fora
minute, looking at her slowly all over, from the
crown of her hat down to the heels of her boots. He
was murmuring something into his beard which she
could not understand ; but when his eye reached the
line of gold bracelet on her wrist, the murmur had
burst out into loud words. " She can wear gold ! " he
had screamed in a transport of fury  " gold upon her
hands, and gold on her neck, and gold in her ears !
'But it is bad gold, bad gold ; the lady of Wowasulka
carries ill-gotten goods along with her. Go home, fair
lady ; and if they ask who stopped you on the road,
say : Naftali Taubenklibel, who served the Bielinskis
for thirty years, and was turned off at last like a horse
that is too old to chew the grass ; who held the Pro-panacea
once, and prospered, but who sank down
slowly, slowly, slowly, from the day that it was taken
from him. Say that his children are dead, and his

grandchildren starving, and say that his curse shall
follow you beyond your grave."

All this Xenia repeated to Aitzig in a more or less
comprehensible form, and Aitzig, listening intently,
sagaciously nodded his head, and looked impressively
wise. There was nothing especially startling to him
in the occurrence itself, but he was considering whether
the effect it had produced could not be employed so as
to assist his plans.

Do you not think the poor man must have been
mad ? " asked Xenia. " It is so dreadful to think that
his grandchildren are starving ; but can you not tell
him that he must not frighten me like that again ? "

I shall see, I shall see," said Aitzig slowly, racking
his brain for some plausible pretext. "Now, if the
Pan had been at home, and I could have had the
paper "

Has the paper got anything to do with Naftali
Taubenkiibel ? " asked Xenia, with a new interest.

"He held the Propinacya once," ventured Aitzig,
cautiously.

"Ah, the Propinacya; yes, I understand." She did
not understand at all, or rather she completely misunderstood
; but she knew that Naftali had once
held the Propinacya, and that Aitzig now held it ;
and Aitzig had told her that the paper he wanted had
something to do with the Propinacya. She did not

attempt to enter into the matter, but in some indefinite
way she connected the ideas, and thought that
she understood. Aitzig's words had gained a plausible
support now.

If the gracious Panii understands;" suggested
Aitzig, " then will she not let Aitzig have the paper
he wants ? "

"But I know nothing about it; I don't know where
it is."

/ know where it is," retorted Aitzig, betrayed for
one moment into open eagerness. " It lies in the next
room, just under the lid of the desk."

But the desk is locked," said Xenia, " and I have
not got the keys."

True, true ; but the gracious Pan might have taken
out the paper again and laid it outside ; if the noble
lady would only go into the next room, and only casta
glance about."

Aitzig's next move was undoubtedly to get into the
same room with the paper. Remembering a certain
small circumstance which he had noted the other day,
he made this move with a hopefully beating heart.

Xenia, half willing, half unwilling, led the way into
Lucyan's writing-room ; and scarcely had Aitzig crept
in behind her, when he experienced a violent inclination
to clap his hands, and kick up his slippered heels
for joy, for his first glance towards the desk had

shown him that he was right. An expressive gape of
the lid met his eye ; it had never been properly closed.
Oh joy and wonder ! Not even a lock, only a woman
between him and the thing he wanted. Might his
name be no longer Aitzig Majulik if he did not prove
himself able to gain his object now.

Why, the desk is open," said Xenia, going up toit,
but stopping a pace off, and looking at it rather
shyly. She so very seldom entered her husband's
private room, that she was scarcely familiar with its
objects ; and Lucyan's desk inspired her with a kind
of awe.

Of course the desk is open," argued Aitzig ; " the
noble gentleman has left it open on purpose, so that
the noble lady should give my paper."

But he told me nothing about it," said Xenia, still
reluctant.

'' Gottt ind die Welt I but that is strange, that he
should have said nothing of it ! " cried Aitzig, throwing
up his hands. " The noble gentleman must have
forgotten in the hurry ; but the paper is there, waiting
for me  I know it is. Lift but the lid a little, ever
so little, and you will see the paper that lies waiting
for Aitzig Majulik. Oh, there now ! does the gracious
lady believe Aitzig's words now?" for Xenia had
carefully lifted the lid a little way and caught sight
of the folded sheet beneath. Aitzig had caught sight

of it too, and in this moment he would have liked best
to snatch up the paper and make off with it through
the door. That course would scarcely be safe, however,
and he stood in a fever of expectancy, watching
Xenia, as she slowly pulled out the sheet, and held it
still folded in her hand.

Open it, gracious Panii," said Aitzig, drawing a
little nearer in his eagerness, " and you will see the
name of Aitzig Majulik upon it." Peering thus over
her shoulder, with his face not a quarter of a yard from
hers, Aitzig looked like some wizened sorcerer ; and
Xenia, with this foil to her beauty, appeared like the
fairy-princess, around whom the sorcerer is weaving
his enchantments.

She opened the paper, and sav the name of Aitzig
Majulik, and saw Lu can's signature at the bottom.
The blinds had not been drawn up in this room today,
so the paper was not easy to read at a glance ;
she saw something about a sum of money, but whether
the sum were sixty, or six hundred, or six thousand
florins, she did not think of investigating.

"It is most gracious of the noble lady to give to
Aitzig the paper," began Aitzig, thinking it best policy
to thank in advance for the favour which he had not
yet received.

But I do not know whether Lucyan meant me to
give it to you," said Xenia, doubtfully.

It is but a piece of paper, a little piece of paper,"
said Aitzig, in an accent of infantine innocence. " If
Aitzig asked for money, then would it be wise to
hesitate ; but he asks only for a little piece of
paper."

And you say that it is for the Propinacya that you
need it ? " she questioned, still doubtfully.

For the Propinacya, yes, assuredly."

"And that old man I saw, Naftali Taubenkubel,
is it for him that you must have the paper ? "

Assuredly, assuredly," answered Aitzig, with brazen
untruth. As long as he got the paper into his hands,
it did not matter what pretext he used.

Surely it would be right to give him the paper,"
thought Xenia, as she stood hesitating. " It must be
right, as his name was on it." She was not accustomed
to do anything by her own choice, but always that
which others told her, even if the other were only a
Jew. On the whole, she felt half proud of her present
position. Lucyan had told her so often that she
understood nothing of business; he had scolded her
for having been awkward in getting those letters from
Kazimir, and now she had a notion that she was
going to vindicate her intelligence by proving herself
capable of giving a paper to a Jew. She was on the
point of yielding, when once more the thought of such
a distinct act made her take fright.

"Cannot Naftali Taubenkiibel wait till Lucyan is
back ? " she protested.

Gottt und die Welt ! " cried Aitzig, desperate at her
hesitation, and aiming a bold stroke at a spot which
he had already marked as weak ; " are not his grandchildren
starving ? did he not tell the gracious Panii so
himself?" The grandchildren turned the scale, for
Xenia could not bear to think of any one as starving ;
and the image of the old Jew, and the sound of his
curses were still so vivid, that she trembled at the
recollection. She did not in the least see how the
grandchildren were going to be benefited by the paper;
but yet the paper in another moment had passed from
the white to the shrivelled yellow hand, and Aitzig,
restraining a strong inclination to skip from the room,
was, with trembling fingers, buttoning it safe up into
the breast of his kaftan.

CHAPTER XIII.

BETWEEN PARTNERS.

Noa sura qualis era."

Horace.

It was with a sense of relief and respite that Lucyan
stepped into his carriage as he started from home.
For some days, at least, all worries were to be left
behind him. In a few years' time, he reflected with
satisfaction, it would be a first-class coupe into which
he could step almost at his own door ; and whereas it
now took him a day to reach the capital, it would take
him but a few hours then. Let Xenia complain of
headaches as much as she liked, the inconvenience of
having the rocks blasted so near to the house was well
worth bearing patiently for the sake of the result in
view.

These thoughts were exhilarating ; and Lucyan had
not been long gone from home, when his mind began
to settle down into something like its normal quiet.
He set to considering the last scene with Aitzig Maju-

VOL. III. F

lik. On the whole he was glad that he had withheld
the paper. It was wiser not to have committed himself
rashly. When he had slept a night over it, he
would be able to see clearer, no doubt.

Lucyan slept a night over it ; and next morning
he did see more clearly. " What would have been the
immediate result of that passer passing into Aitzig's
hands ? " he reflected dispassionately.

For Lucyan himself it would have been peace from
persecution ; and for Aitzig ? For Aitzig it would
have been a certitude of payment. That paper once
in his hands, Aitzig could be sure of getting his money
under all contingencies. " Yes, he would be sure of
it," thought Lucyan ; " whatever else might happen 
however much I might delay  he would be sure of it,
whether I were alive or dead."

Whether I were dead ! " The thought struck upon
him disagreeably. Aitzig would* not be likely to bewail
his death ; and something in the train of reflection
led him back to some words which Aitzig had said yesterday
when he had spoken of Kazimir as the possible
master of Wowasulka. They had jarred upon him
then, and they came back upon him now. With
double force they came back; they disturbed and
oppressed him ; and the look which Aitzig had worn
came back to him too. The more he dwelt on the
recollection  and he dwelt on it with all the morbid

persistency of overstrained nerves  the more sinister
a meaning did that tone and look appear to assume.
And at last it flashed across his mind, " Why, Aitzig
would not only be as sure, he would be much surer of
his money, were I dead instead of alive ! "

Now did he thank his stars for having guided him
to withhold the paper. It is always a mistake when
one man makes his death the object of another man's
interest. A sort of panic came over him at the thought
of what he had so nearly done. If it had not been for
losing that stupid comb, he reflected, and with it his
presence of mind, he never could have come so near to
doing it. It was true what Aitzig had said : he had
been so clever that all other men had been as fools
beside him; and now, for all his cleverness, he had
barely saved himself on the verge of the veriest schoolboy
mistake. Like a man who has ridden hard all his
life, and ends by breaking his neck over a cart-rut, so
had Lucy an conquered all dangers, to blunder at last
in the simplest of things  a mere scrap of paper. He
had caught himself on the edge of a precipice, and
though he was saved from the fall into the abyss, he
felt rather giddy, merely from having looked down.

The terror of what he had so nearly done, and the
relief of not having done it, engendered in Lucyan a
sensation akin to intoxication. He walked the streets
of the capital in a mood so buoyant that he scarcely

recognised himself. He felt better than he had done
for weeks,  he felt as if he had drunk champagne;
he felt almost as if he could have uttered a prayer of
thanksgiving for the self-confidence, in which he had
begun to doubt, being once more restored to him.
Never before had he so believed in the guidance of
his good star as he believed in it now.

This buoyancy remained with him as he travelled
homewards : it was unabated still as he reached Wowa-
sulla, late in the evening. The Panii had retired to
bed : the supper had been kept for the Pan ; it was on
the table. Lucyan was glad to hear it,  glad that the
Panii was in bed, for her talk would only have wearied
him,  and glad that the supper was on the table, for
he felt quite abnormally hungry. The supper was
done justice to. " I have eaten well," said Lucyan, ashe
rose from the table, feeling rather surprised at himself;
"and I feel as if I could sleep well to-night, 
the first real sleep for a month at least : I should sleep
all the better if I laid that paper under my pillow, as
the children do with their toys. Supposing I lay it
there ? " and still smiling in a sort of amused wonder
at himself, and at his own childishness, Lucyan took
up the solitary lamp, and carried it into the next
room. He was eager to handle again that trump-card
with which he had so nearly been parting in foolish
haste.

The next room was his writing-room  his own private
apartment, sacred to himself,  the sanctuary of
his secrets, of his cares, and of his triumphs. There
was nothing to show that the sanctuary had been
violated. The place had been tidied and dusted ; the
pencils had been freshly cut : upon the desk the pen-holders
were ranged with an almost military precision,
presenting their inky bayonets with perfect regularity
; and beside them there lay a little object, white
and long  the ivory comb, which had come to light in
the dusting of the room. This was all exactly as it
should be,  exactly as Lucyan had always found his
room after every absence from home. He caressingly
passed his hand down the slope of the oaken lid, thinking
how well that desk had kept his secrets for him.
Faithful and discreet old friend! stout, unassailable,
and silent How was that ? The lamp which Lucyan
held rattled loudly in his hand : he had started
in that moment  a start of surprise and terror. His
fingers had reached the lower end of the lid, when, at
that moment, he felt it yield to his touch. There was
no resistance to meet an intruding hand,  the desk
was unlocked. At first he refused to believe it. He
preferred to doubt the sight which his eyes saw, and
the sensation which his fingers experienced, to admitting
the possibility that he should have left his desk
unlocked. This  this alone  was not as it should be.

This was, as for all the world it should not have been.
A second time he tried the lid, opening it no more
than an inch; then he began slowly to believe,  to
believe, that is to say, that it was open  not that he
had left it open. Carefully placing the lamp on the
table, he sat down, and attempted to think out the
situation. With a great effort he forced his mind
back to the circumstances of his departure. The talk
with Aitzig was quite distinct ; the sight of Aitzig in
his shroud was very clear ; so was the writing of the
paper,  but then he was checked by a blank-when
he attempted to picture the moment of turning the
key, his memory refused the image. He could remember
having locked the desk innumerable times ;
he could remember the details of many such lockings ;
but this particular time he could not reach by any
effort of mind. The key was in his pocket ; but it
could afford him no clue. If he had forgotten to turn
it in the lock, thought Lucyan, then his clearness of
mind was beginning to go. He put his hand to his
forehead, and wondered to feel it so cold and damp.
He had been even nearer to the brink of the abyss
than he had thought himself; and once more that
terrible giddiness of brain seized upon him. As he
leant forward to open the desk, the walls seemed tottering
towards him on either side, and the floor to be
sinking from under his feet.

The desk was scarcely open yet when he knew that
the paper was gone. There were a hundred nooks and
drawers where it might have lain ; but in the moment
that he flung up the lid and looked within, Lucyan
understood at once that he had been robbed. Whatever
else had grown dim, the exact position which
that sheet had occupied had remained perfectly clear.
The emptiness at which he stared had more meaning
to him than any fulness he had ever seen ; this blank
was more tangible, this absence was more positive,
than any presence had ever been.

Robbery ! " he muttered, and stealthily glanced
around him. No trace of robbery met his eye. The
room was undisturbed, absolute order reigned. He
examined the lock, and found that it had not been
forced. The thirty thousand florins lay untouched
where he had left them. By this time his hands were
shaking with excitement, like the hands of an old man
in palsy. He lifted them to his head, and, rising from
the chair, stood clutching his temples rigidly. The
necessity of thinking and the impossibility of thinking
clearly just now overwhelmed him. " To-morrow,"
he said aloud, struggling in the terrible confusion of
thought  " tomorrow, when I have slept ; " but in the
same moment he seemed to see his sleepless night
before him as distinct as a reality. He took a turn in
the room to calm himself. " If my steadiness fails

me," he reflected, " I am lost. This will not do ; I
must sleep. There must be draughts in the apothecary's
at Tarajow which will make me sleep. It is

too late for to-day ; but tomorrow  tomorrow ."

Mechanically he took up the lamp, and guided himself
carefully from the room. " To-morrow, tomorrow,"
he was still muttering as he entered the bedroom,
walking like a drunken man.

The light flashed across Xenia's face as she lay in
bed, and awoke her. Very slowly she turned on her
pillow, and her blue eyes, dim with sleep, wandered
towards the entering figure. That mutter of " tomorrow
" had broken in upon her dream, and she was
still half dreaming as she drowsily watched Lucyan
coming in.

To-morrow ? What is there tomorrow ? " she said,
sleepily ; and then, as Lucyan turned at the sound of
her voice, the sleepy look left her eyes.

Are you ill, Lucyan ? " she asked, abruptly ; " you
are so pale. Has anything happened ? "

I have been robbed," said Lucyan, sullenly.

"Robbed?" Xenia started to a sitting posture,
wide awake in a moment, while one heavy brown
plait fell over the front of the embroidered night-dress.
" Is it my diamonds ? " she gasped. " Oh,
Lucyan, please lock the door!"

Lucyan did not lock the door ; perhaps he had not

heard the request. Of all that she had said, he
seemed only to have heard the word " diamonds ; "
and he smiled scornfully as he heard it.

I wish it was your diamonds ! " he laughed, with
an evil glitter of his eye.

'' Then what is it?" questioned Xenia, preparing to
draw her handkerchief from under the pillow. " What
has been robbed, Lucyan ? "

Nothing that you know nor could understand.
Go to sleep and leave me alone."

I can't sleep till I know ; please, please tell me."

It is my desk, then," said Lucyan, for the mere
sake of peace. " My desk has been robbed. There,
leave me alone now."

Lucyan turned without even glancing at his wife's
face, and took another turn in the room ; but Xenia
remained sitting up in her bed, and the air of alarmed
distress began to melt from her face.

Was there any money in the desk, Lucyan ? "

What is that to you ? There is no money gone."

What is there gone ? "

A piece of paper. Now, I suppose, you are much
the wiser," he sneered. Lucyan expected her to shrink
under the sneer, but she did not. She remained looking
at him, while a half-triumphant smile began to
dawn round her lips and in her eyes.

"Of course I am much the wiser," she said, while

childish exultation rang in her voice. " Tt is all right
about the piece of paper ; it has not been robbed."

Lucyan smiled absently, scarcely listening to the
words, and certainly not believing them.

I know where the paper is ! " said Xenia, exultant,
although a little hurt at this disregard of her
present importance.

Really," said Lucyan, still in that dull uninterested
tone of voice.

Yes, it was a paper for Aitzig Majulik," she
eagerly went on, leaning forward with clasped hands
in her effort to rouse Lucyan. " It was for Aitzig
Majulik, and you forgot to give it him before you
went away."

What about Aitzig Majulik ? " Lucyan asked,
slowly.

Well, Aitzig was in a great hurry for the paper ;
you forgot to give it him, and I "

And you ? "

I gave it him," said Xenia, simply.

Lucyan shrugged his shoulders. " Go to sleep,
child," he said ; " you are talking nonsense." ' He was
scarcely roused yet. Up to this moment he had been
too dazed to adopt any theory, or to attempt any
explanation of the disappearance. He had simply
recognised the fact and nothing more. This theory
suggested by Xenia he thought not worth considering.

His wife had always been so completely separate from
this business, that it was very difficult to realise any
connection between the two. He was half ashamed
of himself for having entered even thus far into the
subject with her ; it was a mere wasteful bandying of
words. As wisely discuss literature with a street-boy
as talk of business to Xenia.

T am not talking nonsense," she said, with her
favourite shrug and her prettiest pout. " Aitzig said
that he must have the paper, and it was lying in the
top of your desk,. directly under the lid."

So it was," said Lucy an, quickly. He had just
then reached the far end of the room; he stopped
short, and, with his hands behind his back, stood
facing his wife. Her last words had hit his attention
at last. " Directly under the lid ! " Yes ; that was the
exact way in which the paper had lain. How well he
knew the spot ! It was strange that she should know
it too.

Yes," chattered on Xenia ; " and the desk was
open."

So it was," said Lucyan again, still staring at his
wife. " And the paper, what was it like ? "

It was blue, and it was folded in two, this waygoing
through the action with her hands.

Exactly ; and you took it out ? "

Of course I did."

And what did you do with it ? "

I gave it to Aitzig Majulik ; I told you so already."

Because he asked for it ? "

He begged for it, and I found it quite easily, without
any trouble. You left the desk open on purpose,
did you not, Lucyan ? "

She got no answer ; and looking up, she saw Lucyan
walking slowly towards her down the length of the
room, with his eyes intent upon her ; and, as he came
nearer, there was something so terrible in his face,
that Xenia, with a shriek, cowered to her pillow, and
covered her eyes with her hands.

No," said Lucyan, " that is not it. Do you know
why you gave him the paper ? I will tell you. Because
you are a fool ! "

He was close by the bed, standing over her, as she
crouched before him. With one hand he tore down
the satin coverlet in which she had hidden her face,
and now she could see his eyes gleaming fiercely
above her, and his features, as she had never seen
them before, distorted with fury.

You are a fool, Xenia ! " he cried, in a passion so
sudden and so fearful, that the sight of it seemed to
stop the blood in her veins. " You have ruined me
and lost me. Oh, why was I cursed with a fool for
my wife ? "

This transport of rage was all the more awful for

being the first in Lucyan's life. To his sneers, his
taunts, and his sarcasm, Xenia had got blunted long
ago, but never before had she seen him in a passion.
He was much too clever not to have been irritated by
her stupidity, and much too fastidious not to have
been surfeited long ago by her beauty ; but never once
had he been even tempted to lose his temper in this
or any other contingency in life. This was the first
instance of the kind, and, paralysed by surprise,
Xenia lay and stared into the face above her.

Do not stare, but speak ! " cried Lucyan. " Staring
does not suit you. Methinks you are losing your
looks, child ; and what remains of a fool when her
looks are gone ? Ha ! Have you nothing to say ?
Nothing ? Nothing to shield yourself with ? No excuse
? What devil made you give that paper to the
Jew ? Speak, in heaven's name, but do not stare ! "
and he shook her by the shoulder.

It was about Naftali Taubenktibel," she faltered,
white with fear  " about his grandchildren."

What do you know about Naftali Taubenktibel ? "

Xenia felt as though her senses were deserting her ;
she began to sob helplessly.

He looked so dreadful ! " she faltered, in incoherent
terror. " I thought he would kill me on the road; and
then "

/ will kill you," said Lucyan, " unless you are

quiet this instant ! No tears, no noise ! I have borne
your simpering folly long enough. Have a care now !"
His whole face sharpened with passion. He had just
enough self-command remaining to keep him from
striking his wife, but that was all.

For once in her life Xenia found strength to check
her tears. That strength was born of her weakness.
Dumfoundered by surprise, paralysed by sheer terror,
she lay on her pillow, and the very drops on her eyelashes
seemed to hang there frozen ; she dared not
cry nor speak, she dared not look at her husband, and
she dared not look away. Trembling, and pale as
death, she cowered under his gaze.

Lucyan stood thus, with his lingers stiffly clasped
on the coverlet for a minute longer, staring hard at
Xenia's face. It was the face of a beautiful woman
to all the world; to him alone it was the face of a
fool.

After that minute he dropped the satin quilt and
stepped back. The climax of his passion was past
already.

Do not speak, do not move," he said, between his
teeth. " Leave me in peace  leave me quite in peace;"
and once more he began to pace the room with a fixed
and abstracted air, almost as though he had forgotten
the very existence of his wife.

And she lay exactly as he had told her, without

moving and without speaking ; counting the minutes
first and then the hours, as she heard the clock in the
passage strike ; peeping cautiously through her fingers
to watch Lucyan, as incessantly he paced the bedroom
floor ; shuddering a little whenever he passed the bed,
although his eyes never once moved towards her.
And as she lay and watched, wakeful all the night
through, a feeling unknown to her, a strange sensation
of loathing, crept into her heart. The fear that
she had felt of her husband hitherto had been buta
mental fear. For the first time, to-night she had
trembled before him in physical terror.

Never till to-night had any emotion of any sort
robbed Xenia of even an hour of that sweet childlike
sleep which had been her gift from infancy  the great
preserver of her beauty ; but now she lay through the
whole long night not venturing to move, though her
arm was cramped with long lying ; listening only
with strained attention for the strike of the clock, and
looking with fevered eyes for the dawn which should
deliver her.

The dawn broke at last, dull, grey, and chilly.
Lucyan was still pacing the floor, and Xenia still
lay and watched him.

CHAPTER XIV.

REVANCHE."

Yes, there be things which we must dream and dare,
And execute ere thought be half aware."

Byron.

"I SHOULD be the happiest man alive," said Jan
Wronski, sadly, as he entered the back-shop of his
apothecary one afternoon  " I should be the happiest
man alive if only I could obtain a mad dog at this
moment."

There was no one in the back-shop but his daughter
Janina, and she scarcely raised her head as her father
entered. " Why ? " was all she said, in a listless tone.

Because I have found it now, I have got it at last ;
from this hour forth the world is delivered of one of
its greatest  I might almost venture to say, its greatest
scourge." Though the words were exultant, the tone
was not. Jan Wronski, as he announced his triumph,
looked as dismal as ever, and his hair streamed long
and lanky over his shirt-collar, thinly veiling his ears.

The specific for hydrophobia ? " answered Janina,
without any sign of surprise.

That it is, and I found it to-day."

But you found it last year, father ; and you found
it five years ago ; and you found it also the year after
I was born."

Jan Wronski waved his hand, and smiled a melancholy
smile. " Fancies, visions, foreshadowing," he
murmured, " mere shades of the reality which now
I have found ; all I need is a subject to try it on :
and therefore, as I said before, I should be the happiest
man in the world if I could obtain a mad dog."

He placed, as he spoke, a heavy glass jar on the
table ; and then, with clasped hands, stood gazing at
it in a sort of rapt ecstasy.

"A subject, a subject,  that is all that I want,
Janina. Would it not be a good plan if you stepped
into the courtyard and gave one more look at Aesculapius
his kennel ? It struck me to-day that he was not
taking his food with quite his usual eagerness. Supposing
he were to go mad "  the vision of happiness
conjured up was almost too much for Jan Wronski to
bear. He uttered a groan of mingled emotions.

No, it would not be a good plan," said Janina,
peevishly. " I am not going to the courtyard anymore.
I have been there a dozen times to-day, and
Aesculap is as sane as any dog ever was ; he stole half

VOL. III. G

a cold chicken this afternoon. I tell you, father, he is
hopelessly sane."

Jan sighed despondently, not so much over the lost
half chicken, as over the incontestable proof of Aescu-
lap's sanity which it afforded. Innumerable times
already had the unfortunate Aesculap been suspected
of madness, only to clear himself brilliantly of the
imputation. His appetite and humours were studied
by his master with a critical and a watchful eye. Jan
Wronski was] careful every year at Easter-time not tolet
Aesculap taste any morsel of the blest laban, which
the country-people generally regard as a preservative
against hydrophobia ; but it was all in vain. Not only
did Aesculap refuse to go mad, but he had hitherto
shown himself possessed of a mind more regularly
balanced than most of his fellows.

To think that it only wants a subject," said Jan,
gazing at the glass jar lovingly. " It was at twenty-one
minutes past four that I made the discovery  (I
mention the moment, as it will doubtless become historical.)
Three drops  no more than three drops out
of this bottle  gave the finishing-touch to my work,
clenched the business in fact, if I may so express
myself,"  and opening his fingers, he disclosed a high
and narrow glass bottle, containing a colourless fluid.
Do you see that bottle, Janina ? "

Yes," she said, indifferently. " What is it ? "

It is poison  a deadly poison  with a Latin name
which you could not understand and would not remember.
Are you attending to me, Janina ? "

"Yes," said Janina, with a movement of weary
impatience.

''If you give three drops out of that bottle to a
person in health, it will kill him in five minutes ; and
if you give the same quantity to a man bitten by
a mad dog, it will cure him in ten. Is that not a
magnificent mystery of Nature ? "

Very," said Janina, staring at the bottle vacantly.

I was very near it yesterday," maundered on Jan.
I had laid the foundation, the groundwork, as it
were, but those three drops were the crown of my
efforts." Slowly and carefully he placed the bottle
on the table beside the glass jar. Upon the same
table were ranged various small boxes, pots, and
bottles, all waiting to be done up in white paper.

"Ah, the orders for tomorrow ! " said Jan, sighing
a little, as his eye fell upon them, and giving his lanky
mane a spiritless shake. It was a sacrifice to step
down from the heights, to leave his discovered specific
for ordinary pills and powders which other men had
discovered long ago.

The names are not marked, Janina : how is this ? "

Could I guess the names ? " she retorted, impatiently.


To be sure," said Jan, who was rather in awe of
his daughter's temper ; " I forgot to give you the list.
Here, I will dictate, and you can write ; " and pulling
out a strip of paper, Jan began the dictation : " Tonic
powders  Madame Dulceska (the last didn't agree,
I have changed the colour of the paper) ; digestive
pills  Professor Kluski (see that the dozen is not complete
 a useless extravagance, nobody ever counts
their pills) ; sleeping-drops  six drops on sugar night
and morning  Pan Bielinski (remember to put a gold
paper round the cork). Why are you not writing,
Janina?" for Janina, with her pen in her hand, was
gazing upwards instead of writing.

Pan Bielinski," she repeated. " Which Pan Bien
? "

The Pan Bielinski, of course ; the Marszalek, not
the hussar captain  no hussar ever needs sleeping-drops
; and not the other, for he is not likely to awake
just yet," said Jan, with a laugh; the apothecary
rather prided himself on these dismal jokes. " It is
Lucy an Bielinski of Wowasulka."

And he wants sleeping-drops ? "

He sent for them this afternoon ; he has suffered
from headaches lately, and is disturbed in his sleep."

He may well be."

What is that you said 1 "

Did I say anything ? It was a mistake,  go on ; "

but though she dipped the pen in ink, Janina could
not succeed in forming the big B for the Marszalek's
name. She made two vain attempts to steady her
hand, and then, throwing down the pen, she gave
it up.

Are you ill ? " asked her father, not exactly with
interest, but with surprise. In flinging down the pen
she had all but knocked over his precious bottle, and
having hastily rescued the top-heavy flask, he looked
at his daughter reproachfully.

"Yes, I am ill," said Janina, grimly. "Has that
never struck you before?"

Jan looked at his daughter with a passing touch of
alarm. " You do look rather pale to-day ; I cannot
say that I ever noticed it ; I am so busy always, you
know." So he was, poor man, and always had been,
far too busy to notice his daughter's doings and looks.
To him she was not a daughter ; he had no daughter,
he had a machine  a machine which mixed pills and
cut out paper rounds and wrote labels. She listened,
without hearing them, to his lectures on hydrophobia,
and she occasionally frightened him with a burst of
temper. But he had got used to that; all machines
get out of order at times. To-day it struck him that
the machine was more seriously out of order than
usual.

I fancy you used to be pretty, Janina," he said,

dismally  " that was my impression at least ; but T
do not think you are pretty now. Do you really think
you are too ill to write those names ? The medicine
will be sent for to-night, you know."

Janina took up her pen again wearily. Her father
bustled about a minute longer ; placed the jar on a
shelf, and the high glass bottle beside it. Having
done this, he took up a brush and began smoothing
his lanky hair ; then, with an undecided glance towards
his daughter, who never raised her head, he
proceeded nervously to trim his nails : finally, with
a sudden resolution, he seized his hat and umbrella,
and coughed loudly to attract Janina's attention.

She looked up with a frown. The sight of her
father, hat in hand, appeared to give her some sort
of a shock. "Are you going?" she asked, with a
look of fear.

Yes, on some business." Jan's business consisted
just then in paying a round of visits. He was about
to drop in upon each of his intimates in turn, and,
under the seal of secrecy, to impart to the bookbinder,
the hairdresser, and the confectioner, the news of the
discovery which burned on his tongue. "You will
mind that the packets are neatly done up, Janina," he
added; "and you will keep an eye on the shop. I
shall not be gone much more than an hour."

So long ! " she said, with a shudder. " Do not go,

father," she cried, all at once ; and rising with unexpected
energy, she crossed the room and threw her
arms around him. Such exhibitions of tenderness were
so rare, that they were apt to embarrass Jan Wronski.
He was overwhelmed with embarrassment now, as well
as suffocated, by his daughter's embrace.

Dear me ! to be sure, why should I not go ? You
don't want me for the labels, do you ? "

I  I am afraid," said Janina, in a whisper. Her
father gave a good-natured laugh, and absently patted
her cheek. He was in mind already watching the
envious glance of the hairdresser's eye as the news
of the great discovery was broken to him. The hairdresser,
it must be understood, had for five years past
been working at a rival discovery  a pomatum which
was to banish baldness from the world.

"Dear me, Janina, what a child you are for your
age ! There  let me go," and unclasping her hands
he made straight for the door. He was opening it,
when his daughter's voice recalled him.

Will you not take away that bottle ? " she was
saying, speaking slowly, and with her eyes bent obstinately
before her.

Which bottle ? "

The bottle with that white stuff  with that poison."

Why should I take it away ? " inquired the dismal
apothecary.

Something might happen to it  it might fall : the
shelf is narrow."

I will put it on a broader one. There  it is quite
safe."

But I wish you would take it away."

Why ? "

It makes me sick to look at it."

That was no reason for Jan Wronski. " Don't look
at it then," he would have said, had he been quicker
at repartee. But he was too slow for that ; he merely
shook his head with an air of melancholy wonder, and
gently closed the door behind him. He opened it once
more, and whispered through the chink, " Don't forget
the gold paper on the Marszalek's medicine ; take the
ribbed sheet, you know." Janina made no answer.
She stood for a minute, just as her father had left her,
with her eyes fixed on the floor ; while the arms which
he had shaken from him sank slowly down to her
sides. Then she went back to her chair, and resumed
her arrangements of paper and twine. And all this
time her heavy eyelids were sunk so low over her
eyes, that they appeared as though glued there. It
was a dark afternoon, and a drizzly rain was beginning
to fall. In the apothecary's back shop the light was
spare ; and after the front door had fallen shut behind
Jan, the silence became almost complete. The rain
dripped past the window ; and now and then a goose

cackled in the yard, and occasionally Aesculap emerged
from his medicine-chest, and rattled his chain as he
shook himself; but such subdued sounds scarcely
broke the silence for Janina. Silence was hateful
to her at all times,  it was insupportable to-day.
She fastened up the powders for Madame Dulceska,
she counted out the pills for Professor Kluski,
taking care to give him one pill less than the dozen, 
and yet she saw neither pills nor powders. Though
she never looked towards it, she saw nothing but that
high glass bottle on the shelf, with the colourless white
fluid. It seemed to her that in the whole room there
was nothing but that one bottle ; that she was alone
with it, for all the other jars and boxes around. She
fancied that the bottle had eyes, and was watching her ;
she fancied that it had fingers, and was beckoning to
her ; that it had a tongue, and was whispering to her.
The sleeping-draught was the last of the medicines
to be fastened up. Janina reached it in due course of
time, and deliberately unfolding a sheet of gold paper,
she began cutting out the round she required. It was
not until the round was all but completed that she
appeared able to sit still no longer. Dropping the
scissors, the paper, and upsetting a box of pills, she
rose abruptly to her feet.

Now at last she raised her eyes and looked slowly
about her. She looked at everything in the room first :

at the walls, at the ceiling, at the tables and chairs ; and
last of all, with a defiant turn of the head, she looked
at the shelf where the high white bottle stood. Having
once looked at it, she could not look away ; and she
could not keep away. That colourless fluid  did it
not look as pure as crystal, as innocent as any water
which ever bubbled over mountain-stone ? How could
it look so harmless and be so deadly ? Poison ! was
it really poison ? She would like to convince herself,
and already she was crossing the room. It seemed to
her that she was being drawn towards that shelf, like
a ship towards a loadstone rock ; that white bottle was
calling to her so loudly to come near it, to touch it, to
uncork it and smell it. Janina had placed a chair
beside the shelf, and mounting upon it had taken down
the bottle. Before she touched it, she kept quiet fora
moment, listening. If her father should come back
now  if a customer should enter the front shop !
Would it be her ruin or her salvation ? Was it with
dread or with longing that she listened ? But no 
the opportunity was perfect. Jan was just then safely
ensconced beside the confectioner's oven, and no customer
came near the shop ; there was only the sound
of the rain in the water-butt, and a feeble quack in the
yard, and another rattle of Aesculap's chain. Alas
that it was all so silent and so still,  so silent and
so safe for Janina ! When she reached the floor again.

she stood leaning breathless against the wall ; for the
stretching had fatigued her, and for a moment she
feared to faint.

Presently she recovered, and looked down at the
bottle she held. " Sleeping-drops," she said aloud ;
he wants something that will make him sleep : why
should he not have it ? What was it my father said ?
Three drops given to a person in health,  yes, yes ;
that would do. Has my time come at last ? "

The hour was past, and Jan was not yet returned.
Janina could bear it no longer  could bear the stillness
and the loneliness no longer. Snatching up her
shawl, and leaving the shop to the mercy of fate, she
walked out into the rain.

The town was far behind her before she thought of
looking round ; and then only she noticed that the
dusk was creeping in. Upon the dusk would follow
the darkness, and upon the darkness would come the
light of another day. And that other day; what would
it bring ? Misery and remorse ; shame and disgrace.
They were upon her already. With sudden terror she
now thought of what she had done. Perhaps it was
the sharpness of the October air which had given her
back her senses,  the question was, whether it had
cjiven them back too late.

Janina started homewards, running in the teeth of
the rain. She had no notion how lonsf she had been

gone from home, nor how late it was ; but the falling
dusk filled her with apprehension.

On the Place she passed Professor Kluski's little
boy, bearing away the incomplete dozen of pills which
were to assist his papa's digestion; on the door-steps
she ran against Madame Dulceska's cook, carrying off
her mistress's powders ; and brushing past this indignant
female, she burst breathless into the shop.

Has the Marszalek sent for his sleeping-drops ? "
she inquired fiercely of her father, who stood behind
the counter.

No, he has not," answered Jan, somewhat testily.
He had intended to receive his daughter with a reprimand
for her abandonment of the shop ; but he looked
at her face and changed his mind.

Then they are here still ? "

No, they are not ; I gave them to a man who
passed the door on his way to Wowasulka. How you
have been running ! Was it because you forgot the
gold paper ? " asked Jan, anxiously.

No," said Janina, with a strange laugh ; " I put the
gold paper on." And a minute later she asked, " Who
has taken the bottle ? "

It was Aitzig Majulik, who, passing that way, had
been espied by Jan Wronski ; and who, for a consideration
of course, had consented to carry the Marszalek's
medicine to Wowasulka.

CHAPTER XY.

JANINA THROWS UP HER CARDS.

Oh, agony of fear !
Would that he yet might live ! "

The Cenci : Shelley.

The early October dusk was stealing over the world,
when the door of the Wowasulka drawing-room slowly
opened, and with her finger on her lip, and a skirt
which trailed black and noiseless behind her, there
entered on tiptoe, Mademoiselle Eobertine.

Having closed the door with extreme caution, she
advanced to the centre of the room, and there came
to a standstill, carefully shading the candle she held,
and shooting glances of scrutiny and criticism into the
furthest and the darkest corners of the apartment.
Had there been any spectator present to witness Eobertine's
entry, he surely could not have suppressed a
prison  a cold shudder of awe and curiosity  as she
stood thus, black, motionless, inscrutable, gazing slowly
to the right and to the left. The room, commonplace

and everyday before, assumed all at once a look of
mystery. Every shadow deepened as though to hide
a secret. She brought the atmosphere into the room
with her, as she entered by the door : it was the only
sort she could live in. Wowasulka would never have
been Eobertine's home for so long had Lucyan not
known how, by artificial means, to preserve this atmosphere
around her. He kept her money for her,
and managed it for her too ; and there was so much
delicious secrecy about the locking up of that money
and the doling out of it, and so many charmingly
mysterious consultations concerning it, that Eobertine
many a time blessed her youngest nephew in her heart,
admired his discretion, prudence, and delicate tact,
and never for a moment doubted the extreme advantage
of leaving her money in his hands.

What dark deed, then, had this awful woman come
to do in this dark hour ? Was she preparing to elope 1
But where was to be found a man with such reckless
boldness ? Was she a second Lady Macbeth ? And
was that a dagger she held ?

No, it was only a key. That key locked the cupboard
in the dining-room. To hide every key in her
charge was a necessity of Eobertine's nature ; but she
had found no place to-night which could satisfy her,
regarding the safety of the cupboard-key.

"The top of the clock is too slippery," she murmured,

" and the hole in the footstool is getting too
big. Last time I rammed it down the sofa back, but
I am afraid the servants have guessed the place."

Carefully lifting a corner of the carpet she placed
the key underneath ; then shook her head and withdrew
it. She tried to bury it in an old pile oiJournaux
des Demoiselles ; she attempted to make it disappear
among the bushy twigs of one of Lucyan's window-plants,
 her genius was indefatigable, but dissatisfied.
After each trial she retired a few steps, and, with her
head on one side, stood to view the effect. She went
out by the door and came in again, in order to assure
herself personally of what a stranger could see. But
the carpet appeared to her to be transparent, and the
rhododendron looked treacherous; and, with another
shake of the head, the key would be withdrawn, and
intrusted to another place.

Twice she wandered round the room disconsolate.
The third time an idea struck her. The white porcelain
stove had attracted her eye. Crouching down
beside it, she opened the small brass door. There,
smooth, soft, and grey, lay a bed of ashes. So deep,
so safe a bed for the precious key to sleep in. Tenderly
she laid it to rest ; carefully, with her long lean
fingers, did she rake the ashes over it.

It was a stroke of genius, and Kobertine thought
so ; but even now, at the eleventh hour, and after the

little brass door was shut again, she began to doubt.
What if the snow should come overnight and the
stove be lit next morning ? "What if a servant should
take it into his head to clear away the last year's
ashes? Would not the rhododendron be safer? or
perhaps the door-mat ? And Libertine stood hesitation,
with grave misgivings in her mind. She thought
yes, she was almost sure  she remembered how
Kazimir last spring had opened the grating to throw
in a cigar-stump. Supposing he did it again ! Kazimir
was her bugbear : he concentrated in his person more
dangers to her secrets than all the rest of the world
put together. His spurs tore up carpets, his sleeves
brushed down vases, and laid bare her mysteries to
the light of the day. He was always sure to interrupt
her mysterious interviews with tradesmen, and to burst
in just at the mystic moment when she was telling the
butcher's boy in a hushed voice to bring eight cutlets
next day. And now, what was that step in the passage
? Eobertine trembled as she listened. If it were
Kazimir, and he should enter at this moment !

But Libertine's mind might have been at rest ; that
step in the passage was not Kazimir's. Kazimir, just
then, was at some distance from the spot, riding along
through the rain with his back turned to Wowasulka.
He had been in Tarajow seeing after some regimental
business, and he was on his way home now. Some

(lays had passed since he had last been at Wowasulka ;
but his thoughts were there as he rode along through
the thin, fine rain, which pricked his face like needle-points.
The bridle was slippery in his hands, and
the ground was slippery under the horse's feet. Trap-pistol,
with his wet tail between his legs, and that dismal,
uncomplaining, yet spiritless resignation which
was peculiar to his character, trotted faithfully in and
out of the puddles which each footfall of his master's
horse left behind it.

The grey of the clouds melted into the grey of the
falling dusk. Indistinct forms were here and there
grouped around indistinct willow-trees : cows, standing
with drooped heads, as motionless as the willows
themselves, while the rain trickled from the branches
on their backs, and from their backs to the trampled
grass. The outlines of beasts and bushes alike were
blotted out by the mist.

Of all this Kazimir saw little, for he had drawn the
hood of his brown cloak low over his forehead, so that
his view was limited to a pair of wet horse's ears,
the bit of road, and now, on ahead, the foot-bridge
which was to be seen between them. When he was
within twenty paces of the bridge, he heard a splash
in the water, and when he had drawn a little nearer
he could see that in the blurred landscape - picture
before him, there was also a figure, blurred like the

VOL. III. H

landscape by the falling rain. It was upon the bridge
that the figure stood ; and it might have been the spot,
or it might have been the attitude, which instantly
carried back Kazimir's thoughts to that Easter-eve
last spring, the day when he had heard that a Wowa-
sulla letter awaited him at home.

He had crossed the ford at least a hundred times
since, and a hundred times passed by that lonely
bridge; but never except on that day, and on this,
had that figure, or any figure, stood there.

Before he had got much nearer Kazimir recognised
that it was the same figure. A woman, with a shawl
around her, leaning over the railing, her back to him,
and her eyes on the water. It almost seemed to
Kazimir as if she had stood thus ever since, splashing
stones into the water, just as she had done on
Easter-eve.

"Good evening," he called out as he reached the
edge of the stream. He had not spoken to Janina since
their meeting on this spot, nor had he in fact set eyes
on her from that day to this. Of all that had passed
between the apothecary's daughter and Marcin, he
had but a very dim notion. On the day of his
brother's funeral he had not been able to quit his
station, and of the stormy incident which had occurred
then, he knew only as much as Lucy an had thought
fit to tell him.

At the sound of his voice Janina turned, and before
he had time to follow up his careless greeting with
any other word she had left the bridge, and with two
precipitate steps towards him, almost sprang at his
horse's reins.

Stop ! wait ! turn back 1 " she panted, short of
breath." You must not cross that stream ; you must
go back at once  at once ! "

What is it ? " asked Kazimir in alarm, for Janina's
face, as he saw it close before him, seemed to him very
much like the face of a maniac. AVith both hands
she was pulling at the reins, while the frightened horse
backed snorting before her.

What is it ? What has happened ? Why are you
here ? " he asked, stunned with surprise.

I am here to meet you ; I have waited for you
there on that bridge ; I have waited for an hour, for
more than an hour. I thought you would pass this
way ; I thought you could not escape me here. Have
you been at Wowasulka 1 ''

No, not to-day."

"Go there at once ; " and with all her strength she
tugged the horse round, despite its plunging ; while
Kazimir, dum foundered by her violence, and bewildered
by the whole occurrence, sat passive through
it all.

Why must I go to Wowasulka ? "

Something has happened there."

An accident ? "

A dreadful accident  a fearful accident ; will you
not go ?  it may be too late. Oh, will you not go ? "

But I know nothing, you have told me nothing,"
said Kazimir, beginning to be seriously although
vaguely alarmed. " Is  is it Xenia, my sister-in-law ?
Is she ill ? "

No, it is not her. Have you a heart ? "

I think I have."

Save your brother, then ! Say you will save him ! "

Tell me how," said Kazimir, watching her with
some misgivings.

All this time she had been dragging the horse by
its bridle along the path which he had just traversed.
Now she stopped as if in sudden weakness, and
standing beside him in the rain, she fixed her black
and burning eyes upwards on his face. She had been
a pretty woman when Kazimir had seen her in spring ;
but the months that were past, and the emotions
which they had brought, had worked fearful havoc
with her youth and her freshness; she was almost
ugly to look at now.

"Tell me what I can do," said Kazimir, looking
down at her.

Your brother lias got sleeping-drops," she breathlessly
explained.

I daresay he has. Well ? "

He will take them to-night."

Very likely."

And they are poisoned."

That cannot be," was Kazimir's instinctive answer.

I tell you that they are. I  I  oh God, I poisoned
them myself ! "

Impossible," said Kazimir, who, the more he
looked at her face, felt the more convinced that she
was mad.

She seemed to read that look through the dusk, and
her ear detected the pity in his voice.

You think I am mad ! " lie cried, bursting into a
paroxysm of convulsive though tearless sobs. "You
think I am raving, and you will not believe me ; and
I  oh, I counted on you. You were my last hope ;
you might have saved it all. I waited for you. Oh
how, how shall I make you understand me? How
shall I make you believe me ? "

Thus, and in still wilder words, she raved for some'
minutes more ; and Kazimir watched the noisy exhibitions
of her agony in silence. In his present bewilderment
there was nothing that he could say or do
to help them both out of this inexplicable and undefinable
dilemma.

When she had sobbed thus for a minute or two
without receiving any check from Kazimir, she began

to recognise the necessity for immediate calmness.
As long as she continued to exhibit this violence, so
long would he continue to doubt her sanity ; and the
first necessity was that he should recognise that she
was sane, and believe the story which she had to tell
him. She forced back her tears, dashing her hand
across her eyes ; she pulled the wet leaves off the
nearest willow-bush, twisting them between her fingers
in her frantic attempts at regaining calmness.

Listen to me," she said, in quite another tone this
time. " I will convince you that I am sane. Will
you listen to me for five minutes ? "

Certainly," said Kazimir.

Tell me, then," she laid her two hands on his arm,
and Kazimir noticed that they were quite steady
now,  " tell me whether you ever heard your brother
Marcin spoken of in connection with me ? "

Yes," said Kazimir, reluctantly, " I have."

Tell me what you heard exactly."

He looked before him and was silent.

I understand ; yes, you are too noble and delicate-minded
to say it, but I understand quite well. You
heard that he was my lover, but you heard quite
wrong. He was my husband."

Kazimir turned his head and looked at her carefully
through the dusk.

I was his wife for four years. He would have

married me openly first, but his mother refused her
consent, and after that he married me secretly. We
were married in the Tarajow church; but the 
church has been burnt down since. You
must have heard of how he asked his mother's consent?"


Yes, I heard of that," said Kazimir, still watchings
her face.

And do you believe me 1 " she asked, suspiciously.

Yes."

You believe that your brother married me ? " she
asked again, not quite credulous.

Yes, I believe it."

I bless you for that," she cried, with another
hysterical sob ; and seizing upon his hand, she would
have kissed it, if he had not prevented her. " I told
the same story to your brother in almost the same
words, and he "

Yes," said Kazimir, as she broke off and stood fora
moment with clenched hands and fixed eyes. The
murderous mood was upon her again.

He did not believe me ; he scorned me ; he laughed
and smiled ; he stroked my shoulder as though I had
been a plaything ; he drove me wild ; he made me
mad. I have seen that look before me for two months
past ; I saw it to-day as I mixed the poison. Do you
understand now about the poison ? " she asked, with a

quick change of tone, and she clutched his arm. " Do
you not see?"

Kazimir was beginning to understand. " You put
poison in the medicine ? " he asked, slowly.

Yes ;" she hung her head ; " but I would not
have done it if it had been to revenge myself alone ;
but I was mad with the thought of my child, and
as the time came near I became desperate. I am a
wretched, wretched woman, but I bless you for believing
me. Tell me again that it is quite true you
believe me."

It was quite true. Kazimir had been startled, but
he had not doubted her word for a moment. Even
had there not been so much terrible truth on the face
of Janina's story, it scarcely would have occurred to
him to doubt a woman's solemn word. Perhaps this
propensity was but another phase of what Lucyan
called his folly. He was, to use Heine's phrase, a
knight who was ready to break a lance for the purity
of every lily  a universal champion of womankind 
an enthusiast who went about armed to the teeth, as
ready to fight for the spotlessness of Mary Queen of
Scots as for that of an organ-grinder's daughter who
should happen to be wronged in his presence,  a man
who thought that good women were perfect, indifferent
women good, and bad women unfortunate. Janina

having told her story to such a man as this, what
wonder that she was believed ? more especially as her
story happened to be true. His tone reassured her,
and softened her perhaps ; for her tears began to flow
now, as she stood for a minute quite silent on the
pathway. A mournful wind was sweeping over the
willows, and, as the wet leaves were blown backwards,
they shivered and turned ghastly white in the dusk.
These silent listeners seemed to grow pale and to
tremble, hearing Janina's story.

This afternoon I mixed the poison," said Janina,
after that short pause, " and this evening the drops
were carried to Wowasulka. To-night your brother is
to take them, and the first dose will kill him ; do you
understand ? "

Yes," said Kazimir, gathering up his reins, though
he felt still rather confused ; " I will go."

"Thank God! you will save your brother; but  ;
but," she stammered, " what will you say ? "

"I do not know," said Kazimir; "but I shall not'
betray you."

"Ah!" she breathed a sigh of relief; even though
she was wound up to the pitch of self-betrayal, to be
thus shielded filled her with a sudden sense of comfort
and security. " But only go quick, or you may
come too late. Quick, quick ! " Her excitement was

beginning to break out again, now that the restraint
was lifted. " Why do you not go on ? Why do you
not spur your horse ? "

He was spurring his horse already  he was gone
while she spoke; and Janina stood on the pathway
alone with the shuddering, whispering willows.

CHAPTER XVI.

HIGH PLAY.

"And now (as oft in some distempered state),
On one nice trick depends the general fate.
An Ace of Hearts steps forth."

Pope.

Through the darkness and the rain Kazimir galloped
all the way to Wowasulka. He had been rather slow
to take fire ; rather reluctant, through sheer stupefaction,
to give credit to Janina's story ; but now he saw
and believed, and trembled lest he should come too
late. Being of an imaginative temperament, there is
no saying in what extravagant fancies he may have
indulged during that wild ride through the rain, 
how he may have seen himself spring from the saddle
just in time to dash the cup from Lucyan's lip,  or
reaching the house to find that it was already a house
of mourning. The image of that woman's face, with
the guilt and terror stamped upon it, and the image
of Lucyan measuring out his fatal dose, rose alternately
before his eyes. His horse was still at full

gallop as its hoofs clattered over the garden gravel,
and the first thing Kazimir saw was that the bedroom
windows were dark, while there was a light in the
drawing-room. He breathed a little more freely. If
Lucyan was still in the drawing-room he would most
likely not have taken his sleeping-drops yet. There
was some hope now that he had reached aright. He
scarcely took time to fasten his horse to the nearest
rose-bush before he hastily entered the house.

In the long passage within it was all pitch-dark ;
but Kazimir, groping his way forward with his hands
before him, had scarcely made two steps when he
heard a whisper.

Is that you, Kazimir ? "

"Yes," he said, standing still, for it was Xenia's
voice which had spoken ; he knew it on the instant,
as he would have known it amongst a thousand others.
But there was a note in the crystal bell not as clear
nor as serene as usual ; the silver flute was tuned to
a minor key.

Oh, I am so glad you have come ! " she said, with a
half sob. " Where are you ? Are you near me ? " There
was a rustle of drapery, and in another minute there
was a small soft hand feeling along Kazimir's wet
coat, and all down the sleeve, till it reached his hand.
The fingers fastened around his and clung there. " Oh,
you must not go," she said ; " I hoped you would come

at last ; " and still holding him by the hand, she drew
him on a few steps along till she reached a door.
This she flung open, and light streamed out upon
them.

They stood in the drawing-room ; a shaded lamp
dimly illuminated the space, and revealed Xenia's
figure. Her teeth were chattering with cold ; a shawl
was drawn tightly round her shoulders, and some raindrops
hung upon her hair. " We are alone here," she
whispered. " Oh, I am so glad ! I have been hiding
outside all the evening; I dare not go to bed tonight."


Where is Lucyan ? " asked Kazimir, abruptly.

Xenia had not let go his hand yet. At his question
she clung to it more tightly still, and throwing a curiously
frightened glance over her shoulder, shrank a
step nearer to him.

Do not speak so loud, please ; I do not want him
to hear you."

But I must see him," said Kazimir, attempting to
withdraw his hand.

JSTot now, please  not now ; later  tomorrow."

But where is Lucyan ? " he exclaimed, half wild
with impatience, and still breathless with the haste
and excitement of the last hour.

I don't know ; in his room, I think, writing."

"Are you sure?" urged Kazimir, earnestly.

Yes, I think so ; why do you ask so much ? "

When did you see him last ? "

Xenia's fine eyebrows began to knit in displeasure.

I wish you would not talk of Lucy an," she said, ina
tone of vexation. " I want you to attend to me, and
not to Lucyan."

"He is writing in his room?" repeated Kazimir,
scarcely having heard her last words. " Are you quite
sure he is there ? "

Yes, of course I am quite sure."
" And he has not taken his medicine yet ? When is
he to take it ? "

His medicine ? " repeated Xenia, more and more
surprised, as well as provoked by this strange interest
in his brother, and this still more strange indifference
to herself. " The bottle which Aitzig Majulik brought ?
Oh, I don't know ; before he goes to bed, I suppose."

Are you quite sure he is not ill ? "

Xenia shrugged her shoulders. " He may be ill ; I
think he must be, or he could not behave to me ashe
does. Oh, Kazimir ! I have suffered so much, so
dreadfully ! I cannot bear it any more. A second
night like that would kill me ; it really would. Do
you know that I did not close my eyes last night fora
moment  not for one single moment?" She raised
them slowly to his face as she spoke. That terror,
sadness, distress, who knows what, which rang in her

voice, was mirrored in her widely opened eyes and in
every line of her shrinking figure. The lids were
heavy from want of sleep; the tender colour was
faded from her face, almost gone from her lips ; her
hair was ruffled and disordered. And yet she was
almost more beautiful thus than in the smiling serenity
of her everyday beauty. Her blue eyes, encircled by
dark lines, seemed to have grown black in the shadow ;
every line of her features was deepened, while in her
hair the rain-drops sparkled like diamonds.

Kazimir read all these signs in the dim lamp-light,
but he read them in an indistinct and far-off' way, for
he was still too full, mind and body, of the errand on
which he had come ; his pulses were still flying in too
hot a haste to let him be quite sensible of Xenia's
look. A cloud of excitement hung before his eyes,
dividing him from her for the moment.

And while he stood thus, feeling her beauty, without
quite realising that he did so, there was the sound
of a distant door opening, and in the same minute
Lucyan's step was heard in the passage.

He is coming in here ! " was the thought which
struck them both, although neither of them spoke it.
Had Kazimir been calmer, he would have been frightened
by the pallor which spread over Xenia's face,
as, with parted lips, she stood and listened to her
husband's steps.

But Liicyan was not coming in here. The step
passed close to the door without pausing,  passed on
till it reached another door, which quickly was opened
and closed.

That was the bedroom door, Kazimir knew from
the sound ; and now the moment for action was surely
come. Lucyan had in all probability gone there to
take his sleeping-drops. The situation could scarcely
be more urgent than it was. With a wrench Kazimir
tore away his hand, and reached the door ; but Xenia's
fingers closed over his again as he touched the handle ;
and once more he was held back.

There were tears of vexation in her eyes now as she
raised them to his.

Why do you treat me so, Kazimir ? why will you
go when I ask you to stay ? I have so much to tell
you ; I want to ask your advice : why will you go
away ? "

Because there is something that I have to do."

Cannot you wait a little longer ? I am sure there
is no hurry ; I wish you were not so unkind ! "

But I cannot wait," said Kazimir, in an agony.
"Every minute is fearfully precious. Let me go, I
entreat you."

Not unless you tell me what it is," she said, with
a half-sweet, half-pettish smile breaking through her
tears. '

It is a danger,  a great danger,  and I can avertit
if you let me go."

"A danger?" her eyes dilated in alarm. " What is
it about ? "

It is about Lucy an."
Go on."

There has been an attempt,  no, I mean there has
been a mistake : there is poison in his medicine ! "

Poison ! " Xenia's pale face lost its last trace of
colour.

"Yes; but it is not yet too late: it only needs one
word to save him,  only you must let me go."
'' What will you do if I let you go ? "
I will save him, of course ; have I not told you
so?"

"Yes." Her eyes, wide and distended, were fixed
upon his face ; she was still as pale as before, but her
tears had been suddenly checked.

And if I do not let you go ? " Unconsciously as she
said it, her fingers tightened upon his sleeve.

It would be too late then," said Kazimir, startled
at the tone of her voice.
Too late to save him ? "
Yes."

And he would die then ? " she asked, below her
breath, shuddering at the word even while she said it.
Yes, I fear so."

VOL. in. I

And if he should die ? " she said, very slowly; and
at that moment  dangerous, terrible moment  their
eyes met full.

She stared at him some seconds longer, and then
she burst into tears.

Do not go," she sobbed, with her face in her hands.
Do not go to him ; stay here."

The words were clear ; yet Kazimir doubted whether
he heard aright. Gazing at her, he stood rooted to the
spot, and her sobbed-out words poured upon his ear.

I can bear it no longer ; I hate him,  I hate
him ! " It was by far the strongest expression which
Xenia had used in her life,  as this burst of tears also
was the thing nearest approaching a passion of which
this sweet and flower-like woman had ever been guilty.
But even in the midst of it she remained sweet and
flower-like still. She stood and sobbed, frightened at
herself,  frightened at the words she had used, yet
not withdrawing them; terrified at the thought betrayed,
yet not disowning it. What had she said?
She had not meant it, that is to say, yes ; at least
she meant that she did not know ; only she was very
miserable  miserable.

Kazimir, shocked and distressed  pained that so
soft a creature should have been capable of so hard a
thought,  stood by and listened. From the moment
of Janina's confession and entreaty, his haste had

been so great that he had never paused to analyse the
situation. The necessity of saving his brother had
been the only thing he saw ; consequences and possibilities
had had no place in his mind. But Xenia's
words,  more still, her look  that glance between
them,  had startled him into perfect consciousness.

Ay, what if Lucyan should die ? What then ?
Dimly he began to understand what would be then.
The fire which he had caught from Janina seemed to
go out suddenly. Was it Xenia's tears that quenched
it?

Her beauty  indistinct and far off a minute ago 
became real and close again to his fully awakened
senses. He stood and looked upon the graceful figure,
the rounded shoulders that heaved with sobs  the
beautifully drooped head upon which the rain-drops
shone ; and as he listened to her narrative, the urgency
of the moment, the danger and the hurry, all gave way
to a sense of burning indignation.

I thought he would strike me," she said ; " I thought
he would kill me ; he glared at me so with his dreadful
eyes ; and oh, Kazimir, he called me a fool ! "

Is that true ? " asked Kazimir ; and his right hand
clenched.

It is true,  it is quite true."

He treated you like that ? "

Yes ; and that was not the worst : he said that 

oh, it is SO dreadful!  he said I was losing my
looks ! I cannot bear it any more, I have been hiding
from him all the evening. Oh, Kazimir ! dear
Kazimir ! what am I to do ? Can you not help me ?
Can you not take me away ? I should be safe with
you!"

Her frightened eyes were fixed upwards on his face ;
and once more her hand sought his. He knew everyone
of her glances, and each of her gestures, by heart ;
he had studied their grace and their charm continually;
but this glance and this gesture he did not
know. There was something in her eyes, wild and
tear-blurred as they were, which had never before
been there. That look he had never seen,  not in the
salt-mine, not in the sledge-drive, not on the day when
he had given her back the flower. This was something
beyond coquetry,  something beyond flirtation.
This he had once hoped for as the greatest prize in
life, and despaired of obtaining, and wept for, because
it was stolen from him. ,

The weeks and months past had worked this change :
Lucyan's sneers had worked it almost more than Kashmir's
love. Lucyan had succeeded at last in wearying
out even her meekness. She had borne her slavery as
few slaves do. She might have forgiven his burst of
fury ; she might have digested the insult of being called
a fool; but to be told that she was losing her looks had

lashed even her gentle spirit into rebellion. She was
wound up to the highest pitch of passion possible to
her. So far as she could hate, she hated her husband ;
so far as she could love, she loved his brother.

For Kazimir it was a terrible moment. There was
a mingling of joy and horror in the discovery he had
made. Like a pair of foolish children, they had played
with fire, and this moment was their punishment.
She loved him, and was clinging to him for protection,
was imploring him to deliver her. And it was so
easy to do so : there was but that one life between
them ; a few minutes and that life might be no more.
Was not that poor distracted Janina perhaps but the
instrument of Providence ? How could the man deserve
to live who had called Xenia a fool? Impossible
! Kazimir's heart cried out for revenge,  revenge
for his cheated love, revenge for his stolen birthright.
It was the destroyer of his happiness whom he was
asked to save. Oh, it was too much ! this could not
be justice.

Such thoughts come to good men as easily as to bad
ones ; and good men listen to them sometimes, and
sometimes good men fall. For we are so weak, even
the strongest of us ; and the greatest, after all, so very
small.

To gain back by a single stroke all that he had lost !
A tempting demon whispered it ; and Kazimir listened,

drinking in the sweet temptation. He stood there,
hesitating, bewildered ; torn by a hundred distracting
thoughts; puzzled by a hundred doubts, which were
new and strange to him ; dazzled by the betrayal of
Xenia's love ; and surely  oh yes, surely  made happy
by it. That something within him was jarred, and had
been jarred since, in her first outburst, she called on
him not to go to Lucy an, he indistinctly felt. Did she
now want him to go? Did she want him to stay?
She stood there, behind the impenetrable shield of her
tears  not asking him to stay, nor telling him to go,
not speaking, only weeping unanswerable and un-answering
floods. Such floods, even wept by angels,
are often more perilous than the most demoniacal
temptation.

Ah, Kazimir, Kazimir ! honourable man though you
be, was it Honour alone which gave you the victory
at this moment ? Was it Virtue alone which made the
dark cloud to pass ? Or was it that, even while you
gazed and listened, the temptation, unknown to yourself,
unacknowledged by you, was weakening ?

How it was Kazimir did not know; but he found
his strength again, and dashed from the room.

CHAPTEK XVII.

A Ideal.

For 'tis a truth well known to most,
That whatsoever thing is lost,
We seek it, ere it come to light,
In every cranny but the right."

COWPER.

As he flung open the bedroom door, Kazimir saw
Lucyan standing beside a further table, with his back
turned. He looked round slowly as his brother
entered.

Thank heavens ! " was Kazimir's first word.

You here, Kazimir ? "

Where is your medicine ? " asked Kazimir, not calm
enough to attempt any explanation.

Do you know what o'clock it is ? "

"No," said Kazimir, rather wildly; "it may be
midnight for aught I know, or mid-day. Where is
your medicine?"

That is exactly what / want to know," said Lucyan,
irritably, " and exactly what no one can tell me."

I do not understand you "

I daresay not ; as little as I can understand aunt
Eobertine. What on earth makes that cursed old
woman shuffle away her keys into infernally mysterious
holes, which she cannot herself trace an hour
afterwards, far surpasses my comprehension."

But that is not the question," said Kazimir, surprised
at this tone and language, of which he had
never before known his brother to be guilty. " What
has the key got to do with your medicine ? "

What have you got to do with my medicine, if I
may ask ? "

"Everything on earth. You have not taken it
yet?"

I have not had the chance."

But it is in the house ? "

Lucyan shrugged his shoulders. " Que sais-je ? It
reached the house, at all events."

"By AitzigMajulik?"

Yes. How do you happen to know ? " asked Lucyan,
staring at his brother.

By a chance. And where is it now ? "

"In the jam-cupboard, I believe," said Lucyan,
grimly; "but where the key of the jam-cupboard is
you need not ask me. Aunt Eobertine has juggled it
away, according to her invariable habit. Every key of
every cupboard in the house has been daily hidden, I

believe ; but I shall put a stop to this," said Lucyan,
sternly. "That old woman is becoming worse than
useless ; her memory is failing her. I should have
taken my sleeping-drops long ago if it had not been
for aunt Eobertine."

Dear aunt Eobertine ! " broke out Kazimir, with
a burst of unexpected affection. "Dear, good aunt
Eobertine ! I never thought that I should live to bless
her eccentricities."

Lucyan was watching his brother curiously. " When
you have quite done your raptures about aunt Libertine,
I suppose you will tell me what you are here
for."

I will tell you now : I want you not to take that
medicine."

Lucyan gave a faint smile. " Are you afraid of my
health suffering ? How considerate, mon free ! "

Yes  no," stammered Kazimir, reddening. "I want
you to promise that you will not take it."

Eeally ? And what am I to do with it, pray ? "

Throw it away," said Kazimir, without reflecting.

And your reasons ? They are excellent, no doubt."

I cannot give them."

That is a pity," said Lucyan, drily ; but in his eyes
suspicion gleamed. "They would have been worth
hearing, no doubt."

Kazimir gnawed at his under lip, not trusting himself

to speak. There rushed over him a violent repulsion
 a strong disgust of this man whose life he had
come to save, and who had treated two women as
Lucyan had treated Janina and Xenia. He had long
ago felt that he hated his brother ; but he had never
plainly told himself so until to-day. Angry words
crowded to his lips ; old wrongs awoke up again and
urged him to speak ; but he dared not trust himself,
for Janina's secret was upon his mind, and he feared
by an imprudent word to betray her.

Lucyan did not take his eyes from his brother's face,
but stood gently passing the comb through his hair.
Kazimir had never before noticed, but at this moment
he noticed, that the hair about Lucyan's temples was
beginning to turn grey. His face, as he stood now
with the lamp-light upon it, looked haggard and worn ;
the eyes were sunken, the habitual pallor intensified.

"It is no use asking me questions," said Kazimir,
after that pause ; " but there has been some mistake
about the medicine  you had better not take it, it
might "

"Disagree with me?" finished Lucyan, with fine
interrogation.

Yes, I am afraid so."

So you evidently are. And the mistake ? Do you
happen to know who made it ? "

I do not know  the bearer, I suppose," said Kashmir,

steadily ; feeling at this moment only the necessity
of shielding Janina at any price.

"AitzigMajulik?"

I daresay ; I do not know ; it is no use asking me."

Apparently not. Are you going now ? "

Kazimir was going, for he could no longer bear to
watch the sneer upon Lucyan's thin lips.

Yes, I am going ; but I shall be back tomorrow.
I promised her,  that is to say, I shall probably be
here."

"Exactly; you will happen to be passing by the
merest chance. Wowasulka lies so very conveniently
on your way ; only an insignificant detour of a couple
of miles. Oh, I understand quite well ; good-night,
ran free ! "

Lucyan stood alone in his bedroom  thinking.
So there had been a mistake about his medicine, had
there ? The medicine which Aitzig Majulik had
brought.

That mistake and its exact nature took a stronghold
upon Lucyan's mind. It was an interesting
problem ; all the more interesting because it could not
be solved to-night. It appeared that even next day
the solution was not immediately to be had ; for
morning came, and the forenoon wore on, and the key
of the jam-cupboard remained invisible.

All the interest and energy of the household seemed

to have become concentrated on that one little bit of
steel. A general and perpetual search was carried on.
Carpets were lifted, dresses were shaken out, boxes
were emptied. Every vase was peered into, and every
drawer was opened. A stranger entering the house
unannounced would have been puzzled to explain the
variety of strange positions and wholly unaccountable .
movements in which the inmates were indulging.
Everybody walked about armed with a stick, or a
broom, or a parasol, with which they poked into distant
corners and stirred up dust ; everybody got upon
chairs to explore the lofty tops of presses, and came
down again choked with more dust. Occasionally was
to be seen a person in a position entirely horizontal,
vainly attempting to gain an interview of a wardrobe
or a chest of drawers, and regaining the perpendicular,
red and breathless, and wrapped in clouds of dust.
Dust, nothing but the eternal dust !

Should the key not be found before evening, Lucyan
had resolved to send for a locksmith. Most men
would have sent for one at once ; but it always went
against the grain with Lucyan to admit that he was
baffled in any undertaking. In the meantime he had
gone to the extent of offering a florin's reward to
whichever servant should bring him the key.

What Kobertine suffered during this 
torture, the words of ordinary language are far too

feeble to describe. To her it was all thumbscrew and
rack. Every drawer that was opened wrung her heart,
every single poke that was made by an exploring
broomstick seemed to strike her mystery-loving breast.
She began by fighting for each spot in turn, but soon
had to yield before Lucyan's determination. Mournful
and desperate she followed the searchers about from
room to room and from corner to corner, watching the
devastation of all her most cherished sanctuaries, asa
mother watches the murder of her children. And
they were murdered in vain. Alas ! she knew that
neither in the curtains nor under the carpets was the
key of the jam-cupboard to be found. She knew that
the key of the storeroom was under the sofa-cushion,
and the key of the larder in a hole in the wall ; but
it was in vain that she questioned her overtaxed
memory as to the hiding-place of the jam-cupboard
key. Well might she feel mournful, for Lucyan had
hinted that henceforward all keys should remain in
his own keeping ; and what would life be to Eobertine
without keys ? And what would keys be without
hiding-places ?

Lucyan sat at table with a dark cloud upon his
brow; and Xenia sat opposite to him in unbroken
silence.

They were just rising from table, when Xenia started
and flushed at the sound of horse-hoofs on the gravel.

Ah yes," said Lucyan, with a sharp glance at his
wife  the first he had given her to-day  " he promised
that he would come again."

Is the key found ? " was Kazimir's first word.

"No," said Lucyan, shortly; "and oblige me by
shutting the door ; I never had a taste for draughts."

Lucyan shivered as he spoke ; and yet it was a mild
October day, grey and dull, but as warm and still as a
day in June. Kazimir said as much, and added that
the evening was clearing for a glorious sunset. " Come
into the garden," he said, " and you will see it."

Lucyan declined the garden. He was chilly and
restless ; he wandered away by himself; and, still
looking about him in a sort of hopeless and aimless
way for the lost key, he entered the drawing-room.
Neither of the other two followed him ; he did not
notice this until through the drawing-room window he
caught sight of his brother and his wife standing on
the gravel walk. Trappisto was beside them, earnestly
endeavouring to detach the root of a blue aster plant
from the earth.

Every flower was heavy with yesterday's rain ; but
to-night there was a burst of brilliant light in the
west, which turned all the drops of water into drops
of gold. The sharp-edged clouds, gathering together,
began to drift away in purple banks.

The garden bore a look of neglect, slight, but yet

unusual. The flowers, beaten down by the rain, had
not been tied up ; many of them lay with their
neglected faces pressed to the damp earth.  The
rotting dahlia-heads had not been clipped off, the
branch of a rose-bush trailed to the ground. And if
there was neglect hinted at in the foreground, there
was in the background outspoken destruction; for
there, beside the forest-edge, the labourers were at
work, blasting the rocks and clearing the space for
the railway.

Lucyan turned away shivering from it all. He
hated the clouds, and the sunshine which was chasing
them away ; he hated his wife and his brother ; he
almost hated his railway. He hated the world and
all things in it.

Warm and mild ! " he said aloud, bitterly. " Kashmir
calls the day warm and mild. I say that it is
cold and sharp. I am in a cold fever, I think ; my
hands are like blocks of ice," and mechanically he
held them towards the porcelain stove. " It is time
to light it," he murmured. The stoves at Wowasulka
were rarely lit before November ; " but, after all,"
thought Lucyan, as he stooped and opened the brass
door, "I am rich enough to buy wood."

A heap of grey ashes lay within ; and probably it
was only from the habit acquired to-day of sounding
every corner, that Lucyan touched the ashes with his

finger-tips. The grey heap crumbled under his hand,
and he felt something hard beneath. In the next
minute he had drawn out a large key. He looked it
all over carefully, and assured himself that this was
the key of the jam-cupboard.

''I have saved a florin," was his first instinctive
thought; he need reward no servant, and pay na
locksmith now. It is economical to find one's lost
things one's self.

Having carefully closed the brass door, Lucyan
stood for a minute clutching the recovered key
tightly, while an ugly look of cunning dawned in
his eyes. One glance out of the window showed him
Kazimir and Xenia, with their backs safely turned.
Leaving the drawing-room softly, he walked across
the passage to the dining-room ; there were no servants
within sight or hearing.

Quite gently the key turned in the lock, and
with a subdued groan the cupboard - door swung
open.

Vows of glass jam-pots stood before Lucyan, labelled
"gooseberry" and "currant" in Eobertine's angular
writing. On the "shelf of honour" stood the rose-jam,
which Xenia always told strangers she had
made herself. The contents of the lowest shelf were
more miscellaneous ; and here, between a mustard-jar
and a bottle of extra fine wddki, there stood a

smaller bottle with a gold paper round the cork, and
labelled " sleeping-drops."

I have it now' said Lucyan to himself ; " at last
I have my sleeping-drops."

He locked the cupboard again very carefully, and
put the key in his pocket ; and keeping the bottle in
his hand, he held it to the light.

Ten drops on sugar, nightly," was written on the
label. Having read the directions, he turned the
bottle round. The fluid it contained was of a deep
yellow colour. Next he uncorked and smelt it. The
smell was unusual and disagreeable.

Did I say that the air was cold and sharp ? "
thought Lucyan ; " no, it is hot and burning. I shall
not have the porcelain stove lit now."

He stood with the uncorked bottle in his hand,
hesitating as to what he should do. He put it down
on the table at last, and walked to the door to listen ;
then walked to the window to see if he were not
watched. No one was looking this way. Kazimir
and Xenia still stood with their backs turned ; and
beside them Trappisto was still busy among the
asters, and with earthy snout and mud - encrusted
paws, was revelling in his favourite pursuit. Broken
flowers lay around him.

I wonder," reflected Lucyan, " whether Trappisto
would like a lump of sugar 1 "

VOL. Il K

An idea had struck him, and he thought it was
good. If there had been no "mistake" about the
sleeping-drops, there would be no harm to Trappisto.
And if there had been a, mistake  why, Lucy an had
hated the dog for long at least then the blue asters
would lose their persecutor, and there would be no
more holes dug in the garden-beds. Ah, Trappisto !
poor Trappisto ! in your blessed ignorance, is it indeed
your grave which you have been digging all summer ?

Trappisto ! Trappisto ! " called Lucy an, opening
the window, and putting out his head.

It was the first time that Kazimir had heard his
brother call to the dog, and, somewhat surprised, he
looked round. Whenever Lucyan did take notice of
Trappisto, the notice usually came in the shape of a
kick, or of a hunt with a rake round the garden.

What do you want, Lucyan ? " he asked.

I want your dog here for a minute, to clear a
plate ; send him in."

Trappisto was as surprised as his master; but
whether the word "plate" conveyed some distinct
impression to his mind, or whether there were other
pleasant reminiscences connected with the diningroom,
at any rate Trappisto abandoned the asters
with alacrity, cleared a flower-bed, and leapt in by
the open window.

There was a bowl of sugar standing on the dining-table.

Lucyan selected a large piece, and began to
drop out the sleeping-draught. It was only now that
he became aware of the excitement which governed
him, for his hand was shaking, so that he had to
pause. Upon each of his cheeks a scarlet spot flamed.
He waited for a minute to recover himself, and then
began to drop out the medicine again. This time
he succeeded in steadying his hand.

One, two, three," he counted up to ten ; and all
the time Trappisto stood in front of him and watched
the process impatiently.

"Ten," said Lucyan; and he looked at the label
once more, for he meant to give the medicine a fair
trial. Then he laid the sugar on the floor, a yard
from Trappisto's nose; he was always fastidious in
his tastes, and he objected to letting his fingers come
in contact with that moist and muddy snout.

Trappisto, although apparently somewhat mystified
by the colour of the sugar, did not hesitate for long,
but trotted forward, bent his head, glared at it greedily,
and in the next moment it crunched between his
teeth.

As he munched, the dog gazed up at Lucyan with
a look of earnest gratitude, a sort of affectionate
reverence, which he always felt towards any one whoever
gave him anything to eat.

He stood in the same attitude after he had swallowed

the sugar for nearly a minute; then he gave a
sort of shudder, and almost before Lucyan had time
to notice any change, Trappisto staggered, and fell
upon his side.

There was not a sound or a groan, only the convulsive
tremble still ran over him as he lay. His legs
stretched out slowly, his skin twitched once more,
then seemed to stiffen in its wrinkles. He lay there
stretched and quite motionless.

In less than a minute this had all passed. Lucyan
still held the bottle in his hand, for he had never
moved his eyes from Trappisto. He bent down now
and looked at him, then touched him ; then with two
fastidious fingers lifted one of the yellow paws. It
offered no resistance : the dog was quite dead already.

When he stood up straight again Lucyan's face was
deadly pale.

The sleeping-drops," he said, just above his breath
" my sleeping-drops." He held by the edge of the
table to keep himself straight ; for a blue film seemed
slowly to be creeping over his eyes, and in this sudden
fit of giddiness he could see neither the floor nor
Trappisto.

Very slowly the giddiness passed, and his clearness
of sight returned. The door had opened in the meantime,
though he had not heard it, and Kazimir was
standing in the room.

Liicyan ! " he cried,  " Lucyan, who has done
this?"

I did it," said Lucyan.

This is cruelty, base cruelty," and Kazimir stooped
over Trappisto. " You have taken a good deal from
me, Lucyan," he added, between his teeth. " Do you
not think you might have left me my dog ? "

Kazimir's voice was low ; but as he glanced up at
Lucyan there was a dangerous light in his eye.

I gave him my sleeping-drops," said Lucyan, speaking
quietly, although the sickly pallor had not left his
face.

"Your sleeping - drops ! " echoed Kazimir, with a
hard laugh, and he stood up and faced his brother.
'rand this is the work of your sleeping-drops? and
that is why you look so pale ? Does it surprise you,
Lucyan, that it should have come to this at last?
Does it not surprise you rather that it should not
have come to this long ago?"

Why ? " asked Lucyan, slowly.

Does it surprise you that you should have enemies
? "

Enemies ? " Lucyan repeated the word suspiciously.
" What do you know of my enemies ? "

More than of your friends. Have you a friend,
Lucyan ? Have you one single friend in all this wide
world ? "

'' I don't know," said Lucyan, in a strange voice ;
lie was gazing down at the bottle lie held.

Kazimir had stepped up close to his brother now ;
his eyes flamed as he spoke.

I am your brother, Lucyan, and most men have a
friend in their brother, even if they have no other ;
but have you been a brother to me? I am not as
clever as you, but I am clever enough to see that I
have been duped by you all through life. By God !
Lucyan, do you know that last night I was tempted
to let you take the poison? I do not know what
saved you: it was not any love of mine."

Lucyan knew what had saved him better than
Kazimir  his brother's honesty ; for it is a great mistake
to suppose that because a man has no honesty
himself, he must necessarily not know how to value
it in others. It is only the villain on a small scale
who does not dare to trust to his neighbour, because
he knows that he is not to be trusted himself; and
Lucyan was not a villain on a small scale. He did
full justice to his brother's qualities; he recognised
his largeness of heart and mind, his simple and
straightforward nature. He even, to a certain extent,
admired him as a figure of artistic merits, a piece of
unpractical quixotry. He admired him, and  he
pitied him; A grain of pity always flavoured his
feelings towards Kazimir; but this sudden violence

startled him out of it. Just now lie wished that
Kazimir would not quarrel with him  he had enemies
enough already.

But Kazimir's blood was up ; the long restraint was
burst at last. His reproaches poured hot and thick
upon Lucyan.

What you could take from me you have taken ;
I have nothing left now but the sword which I have
gained for myself. You stole from me the woman I
loved; and how have you used her? what have you
made of her ? Has one brother ever treated another
as you have treated me ? Oh, Lucyan, can such
things indeed be done and go unpunished?"

Lucyan's eyes were on the floor ; he listened with
a face almost stupidly apathetic, only he could not
meet Kazimir's fiery gaze. He was afraid of his elder
brother to-day.

Kazimir paused and breathed deeply.

I have spoken at last ; I wish that I had spoken
months ago. I hate myself for having come to your
house and put on the face of a friend, when in my
heart I felt the bitterness of an enemy."

Why, then, did you not stay away ? " asked
Lucyan, with a faint, a very faint, reflection of one
of his former sneers.

You shall not ask me that again," cried Kazimir,
impetuously. " This is my last visit. I shall not

trouble your house again, Lucian' his fingers were
on the door-handle.

Wait," said Lucyan, and he put out his hand
blindly, as if groping in the dark he was afraid ot
letting Kazimir go away in anger  " wait," he said,
smiling feebly ; " we need not quarrel again, need
we?"

It was too late now. Kazimir struck aside the
hand which Lucyan held towards him, and, opening
the door, he sprang from the room.

He was still so hot with anger that he could not be
sure of the words he had said, nor feel certain whether,
in his heat, he had not betrayed Janina's secret. In
vain, as he rode homewards, did he put the question
to himself.

But he need not have feared for Janina; it was
not of Janina that Lucyan was thinking, as, left to
himself, he began to pace the room. The short but
stormy interview just passed had scarcely torn his
mind from the train of thought which it had before
been following. He seized back on it again at the
very moment that the door fell shut.

The thought which shaped itself in Lucyan's mind
was this : " The medicine was poisoned, and it was
Aitzig Majulik who hr ought the medicine to the house."

CHAPTER XVIII.

CARDS BETRAYED.

Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog. Can there be more said ? He is good
and Mv." The Merry Wives of Windsor.

There was one more hole dug in the garden ; but it
was dug for Trappisto, and not by him.

The yellow dog was buried under a rose-bush. Lucy
an made no objection  in fact, he believed that it
was good for the bush; and Kazimir, once at home
again, discovered that he was more than ever a lonely
man. He missed the weak-minded wag of tail, and the
mournful upward glance, to which he had been used
so long : he turned away from the straw-mat by the
stove as from a painful sight ; every mark of a muddy
paw on the boards served to lower his spirits. Trap-pistol
had been an exceptionally quiet dog  and he
had not been an exceptionally big one,  and yet the
room had never looked so empty, nor appeared so
silent, as it did to-night.

Next morning  his toilet being still incomplete 

Kazimir was startled by a violent altercation outside,
and opening the door, found himself confronted by
Aitzig Majulik, leading two dogs, each by a string,
and attempting to force his way past the indignant
soldier-servant.

What do you want ? " asked Kazimir, sternly.

To wish a good morning to the noble captain,"
answered Aitzig, ducking his head.

Leave me alone," said Kazimir ; " do you hear ? "

Perfectly ; Aitzig hears perfectly," said the factor,
at the same time quietly making his way into the
room, though the process was not free from difficulties,
as the two dogs were pulling him in different directions.

What is all this about ? " inquired Kazimir, staring
with an air of the most supreme disgust from the
vulgar and rough-haired brown dog to the dazzling
white poodle which Aitzig led. " Are you setting up
a caravan, or do you think I am ? "

Aitzig was vastly amused at the notion. The noble
captain always did say such amusing things,  always
was so witty and agreeable in conversation. Aitzig
was truly grateful to see some cheerfulness remaining
after so sad a loss; he had feared for the captain's
spirits, &c., &c.

What do you mean ? " asked Kazimir.

I mean the sad bereavement which the noble gentleman
has suffered in losing his yellow dog."

How do yoii know that 1 " asked Kazimir, sliarpl}

Where is the thing that Aitzig does not know ?
and which is the thing that Aitzig could not do?
Does the noble Pan think that Aitzig's head has lain
on his pillow to-night?" He paused for a moment,
with his hand uplifted and his body thrown back ; but
receiving no answer to the dramatically-put question,
proceeded without one.

No ; Aitzig's head has scarcely touched his pillow.
It was thus I spoke to myself : I said, the yellow dog
is dead, the gracious captain is solitary ; he will need
a companion to replace the one he has lost. Before
daylight I was up, and going from place to place ; for
I would bring to the noble captain none but dogs of
the highest breeding and the most irreproachable conduct
; " and here Aitzig, noticing that the largest and
most vulgar of his charges was feasting upon a boot,
quietly administered a warning kick. The poodle,
being young, and not having yet acquired that perfect
steadiness of legs which is indispensable to canine
dignity, had sat down on the instant of entering the
room, and lay on the floor like a heap of jeweller's
cotton, evidently not intending to rise until compelled
to do so.

Then, while Kazimir, half provoked and half amused,
turned his back and went on shaving, Aitzig launched
on a double panegyric concerning his two canine :)rc>-

Ages, puffing out now one, now the other, with all the
eloquence at his command. They were simple prodigies,
and exceptional creations,  altogether different
from any other animal that went by the name of
dog. Would the gracious Pan be so kind as to say
whether he had ever seen anything to approach the
quality of that poodle's wool, or anything to rival the
intelligence of his eye ? He should be infinitely obliged
if Kazimir would just name any other factor who was
in the position to produce such a poodle. In fact,
there was nothing to which he could fitly compare
that poodle, unless it were the brown quadruped,
which Aitzig dignified by the name of otter-hound.

There is not an otter in the country' said Kashmir,
savagely; "and if there were any I would not
hunt them."

Ah ! the noble captain preferred the poodle ? Well,
perhaps he was right. That was a dog that was at
once companion and friend, protector, and almost counsellor.
And to think that so much intelligence and
good feeling  all that fidelity, and all that mass of
jeweller's cotton  was to be purchased for five florins !

By this time Kazimir was feeling more provoked
than amused. Had he been in his usual mood, he
would have cut the matter short by turning the Jew
and his dogs out of the door ; but he was far from
being in his usual spirits. " Leave me alone," he said,

wearily, and with a half sigh he sat down at the table,
turning his back again to Aitzig.

Aitzig could not see his face ; but he had heard the
tone, and his fine and practised ear had caught the
shade of sadness  the lonely expression of a solitary
man. No matter that it was only the loss of a dog
which had called it out ; the expression was genuine,
and Aitzig marked it.

Long ago his eyes had swept round the room, merely
from the instinct of constant habit, and he had read
every sign aright.

I will stake my faith that the poodle would suit
the noble captain," he began again, softly, after a
minute. "Companionship is what the gracious Pan
requires, and this poodle would afford more companionship
than a whole regiment of comrades.
Comrades ? did I say comrades ? Why, what wife,
even, could be more devoted and faithful than this
incomparable animal ? And a man must have either
a good wife or a good dog, noble Pan, if he is to live
happily."

Kazimir made an impatient movement. A violent
answer would have appeared much more hopeful to
Aitzig Majulik. He would have shown resignation
if Kazimir had abused him  he would have felt encouragement
if Kazimir had expelled him. That
would have looked like business at least. But this

silence and this apathy struck dismay to his heart ;
his flow of eloquence ran dry. Silent and irresolute,
he stood and gazed at the floor, while the two dogs
fell asleep by his side.

It might have been something in the attitude of Kazimir
or the stamp of the room, or it might have been
something in his own words, that put his busy mind on
another train of thought. It was clear that Kazimir's
heart was hardened against the charms of both poodle
and otter-hound, and at the same time it was clear
that he was oppressed by solitude. It went straight
against all Aitzig's principles to leave the room without
carrying with him at least the hope of a future
bargain. He began to bethink himself of another cue.

It was some weeks now since, in his mental cupboard,
he had locked away an article which lay there
waiting for its chance in life. That chance he had
almost despaired of finding ; but had it not come
now? Aitzig could see no better, at any rate. He
had read Kazimir's state of mind far more accurately
than Kazimir had read it himself, and he thought that
the soil was ready for the seed. A man, generally,
would not be likely to pay for the information that
a penniless woman was in love with him ; but Aitzig,
with infinite scorn, told himself that this was just the
sort of man who would marry a woman for no other
reason but that she was poor, and unhappy.

When he had coughed several times, and shuffled
about for a minute, Aitzig spoke.

The gracious Pan will not look at the dogs ? "

No," said Kazimir, shortly.

And the gracious Pan will continue to live thus 
alone ? "

There was no answer.

Aitzig repeated his shuffle.

It is a solitary life to lead, if Aitzig may venture
to speak."

What of that ? " asked Kazimir, haughtily, struck
by the significance of the factor's tone.

The gracious Pan lives thus quite alone, without
any one beside him ; and the Pan is young, and handsome,
and accomplished."

''And amiable, and good-tempered, and witty," finished
Kazimir, beginning to lose patience ; " and
nothing else besides, are you sure? Do you think
that is quite enough?"

It was not near enough, according to Aitzig's opinion;
but refraining from a further list, he rapidly
sidled in another observation. " Most men of that
age think of marrying. Many is the lady, no doubt,
who would be proud to call the gracious captain her
husband."

If you have nothing better to do than to sing my
praises," said Kazimir, " you had better go."

But Aitzig had something better to do : he quickly
leapt from generalities to particulars.

If," he suggested  " if old Aitzig happened to have
heard that there was somebody  that there was a lady
who "

"What are you saying?" Kazimir raised his head
quickly.

That there was a lady  attached to the noble captain
 deeply attached."

Silence ! " said Kazimir, almost violently ; for he
instantly thought of Xenia. The blood mounted to
his temples.

The Jew was puzzled. Had he guessed after all ?
Another step would show.

"A lady," he cautiously proceeded, "whose happiness
the gracious Pan could complete tomorrow by
making her his wife."

The flush on Kazimir's face began to fade. This
could not be Xenia. His curiosity was aroused, and
imprudently he put the question : " Who is it you are
speaking of?"

Having led him skilfully thus far, and tempted him
to betray curiosity, Aitzig as skilfully drew back. He
raised his ten fingers in artless surprise.

The name of the lady ? Was that what the gracious
Pan desired ? How could it be right of Aitzig to betray
a lady's secret ? But, on the other hand, if the

captain were really anxious, and especially if he did
not mind going to the expense of some slight remuneration
to Aitzig for his trouble, it might not be absolutely
impossible to come to terms.

Aitzig's drift was clear by this time ; and Kazimir's
heart rose in disgust at the revolting bargain proposed.
Watching his face carefully, the factor proceeded to
make play with his ware, treating the broken heart
just as if it had been a tangible object of traffic which
he held in his hand. Now showing it through a cloud
of mystery; now unveiling one corner temptingly ; now
turning up the broken edge for a moment and letting
Kazimir catch a glimpse of how deep was the crack 
for there is this difference between broken hearts and
broken bottles, considered as objects of trade, that the
depth of the crack lowers the one in value, while it
heightens the other ; and Aitzig, knowing his advantage,
worked upon it. He kept nothing back except
the mere name.

Kazimir rose at last in exasperation.

Will you go, or shall I turn you out ? " he asked,
with frowning brow. " I will not listen to another
word. I decline your horrid bargain. I do not want
to buy your secret, nor do I believe that you have any
to sell."

This last taunt was too cruel to be borne. By questioning
his business capacity, Kazimir had touched

VOL. III. L

Aitzig's one tender point. In his eagerness to refute,
the factor all but lost hold over himself. He uttered
a sound, half shriek, half laugh, and wholly hysterical,

How should Aitzig have no secret to sell, when it
was these eyes that saw it and these ears that heard
it ? Did I not see her turn, after you had left her,
and all in a minute break down and weep, holding
the rock with her hand because she was too weak to
stand alone ? And Aitzig said, that is not the ruin ;
that is because her heart is broke "

Before Aitzig had quite realised how much he had
betrayed, he found himself in the passage outside,
staggering against the wall, with the poodle and otter-hound
rolling and howling in a knot at his feet.

Kazimir had saved his dignity, but it had been a
narrow shave, after all; that haughty indifference,
which sat so well upon him, was on the surface only,
no deeper than a mask. He had not forgotten that
evening among the rocks ; he had not forgotten that
look in Yizia's eyes which had so puzzled him then,
and haunted him since with many a vague suspicion.
He had wondered what the explanation of that look
could be, and he had come so near to guessing the
truth that it wanted nothing more than Aitzig's words
to make the cloud fall from his eyes.

His own stupidity appalled him ; how could he not
have seen long ago what he saw so clearly now ?

Yes, Vizia loved him; perhaps even had loved him
for long,  and she was beggared. But so was he ; he
had no means wherewith to pay this debt of gratitude.
In a few weeks more, the sword, which had
hovered so long over her head, would fall. Her ruin
had been virtually completed for some time; very
soon its practical effects would come into force, and
Vizia be for ever forced to leave Lodniki. She had
been wronged, cheated, beggared by his brother, thought
Kazimir,  and she loved him.

Thus Kazimir reflected, with his head upon his
hand ; and the morning sunbeams, slanting in, peeped
over his shoulder, as though they would say, " What
are your thoughts, you pensive man ? "

CHAPTER XIX.

WHICH Caen ?

Forwards must du, . .
Deny riickwarts kannst du nun night mer."

Wallenstein : Schiller.

The spirits I have raised, abandon me ;
The spells which I have studied, baffle me ;
The remedy I recked of, tortured me."

Manfred: Byron.

Habit blunts us to everything ; and the rock-blasting
at the end of the garden, which had at first excited
interest, curiosity, or fear, according to the character
of each household member, was now regarded by most
with supreme indifference. They no longer felt nervous
when the warning trumpet-note was sounded,
and they no longer screamed when, five minutes later,
the explosion was heard.

Xenia's peace alone remained disturbed. She had
begun by feeling far more nervous at the trumpet-notes,
and by screaming far louder at the explosions,
than any one else ; and now she would still have
liked to shriek, and still have wished to indulge in

hysterics, only she did not dare. Her fear of her
husband was even greater than her fear of gunpowder ;
and so, with a self-control she had never before practised,
Xenia contented herself with thrusting her lace
handkerchief between her teeth, or burying her head
in the sofa-cushion.

Liicyan spoke little during these days ; every one
instinctively moved out of his path. His wife shrank
from him in terror; the servants avoided their master.
He seemed to notice no one. Never since his burst of
fury, had he by a single word referred to the subject
of the paper before Xenia ; Lucyan never argued with
his wife. But equally might it be said, that never fora
single moment had his mind been free from the
subject. It was of that he was thinking during the
long hours that he silently and gloomily paced the
room ; it was of that he was thinking when he stood
immovable by the window, staring with vacant eyes
through the pane,  of that, and of the poison.

Those two things were inseparably linked together
in his mind ; the idea once shaped, he had never
thought of disconnecting them. The problem of the
poison had not puzzled him for long. From his
brother he was safe, he felt, because of that brother's
honesty  and from his wife, because of that wife's
stupidity ; he scarcely gave a thought to that side of
the question : but there was a man who was neither

honest nor stupid, and that was the man he suspected.
Nor should it be called by so weak a name as suspicion
; from the very first moment it had been more.
It was a conviction so overwhelming that it asked
for no proof, and would admit of no doubt. Others
might wonder; to Lucyan it all seemed hideously
clear. It was what he had unconsciously expected,
though he had not expected it to be so soon ; it was
merely the realisation and embodiment of all his
vague apprehensions; it gave them sudden shape 
it distinctly showed him what it was that he had
indistinctly feared.

The consciousness he had long felt that Aitzig
wished for his death, had become an irresistible
belief which entirely swayed him. How was he to
save himself? was the question on which he brooded.
Every path of escape seemed closed. His mind, which
had of late been so incessantly at work, refused to do
more ; strained and weary, it began to sink under the
stress of thought.

If he delayed the payment of Aitzig's money, he
could not be sure of his life for a day ; but again, if
Aitzig had long wished for his death, as Lucyan had
now persuaded himself that Aitzig did, would not the
moment of the payment, after which he had nothing
more to hope from Lucyan, be a very proper moment,
in Aitzig's eyes, for ridding himself of his master?

In a confused and fevered way, Lucyan almost thought
so. He could not clearly see whether it were safer to
withhold the money, or to pay it. And to add to his
tortures, in the midst of this chaos, into which gradually
he felt himself drawn, the agony of parting with
the money lost none of its keen edge. Even to put
his life in undoubted safety, he would still have
hesitated.

All was closed around him ; there was but one possible
way by which everything would become straight
at once  but one contingency which could give him
back peace and comfort, and his lost self-confidence.
Think and search as he might, it was always to this
same point that Lucyan's mind returned, and round
which his hopes tenaciously clung.

It was the image of Aitzig in his shroud, as he had
seen him that afternoon. Frightful in itself, it was to
Lucyan an image of peace and joy. If Aitzig were
dead, he would be free ; if Aitzig were dead, he might
get back that fatal paper without exciting suspicion ;
Aitzicr's death, and nothing but Aitzicr's death, could
save him.

It must not be supposed that Lucyan's temptations
at this moment were the ordinary temptations of
ordinary men. He felt no desire to stab or strangle
Aitzig, though he would have rejoiced to see-him
stabbed or strangled. He was far too clever, even in

his present state of mental confusion, ever to become
a vulgar murderer. However strong the motive, to kill
a man would always remain a disagreeable undertaking.
It was dirty work, it was gentlemanlike, it
was imprudent ; it was a stupid thing to do. The
victim was one particularly repulsive to the touch ;
the details of the act were revolting to a fastidious
taste; even a spot of blood made Lucyan feel sick.
No ; there were plenty of grounds why Lucyan should
not become a murderer : " C'est plus qu'un crime, c'est
une faute," was the thought that held him back.

Perhaps the reason why the picture of Aitzig
wrapped in his shroud remained so obstinately fixed
in Lucyan's mind was, that he had last seen the Jew
thus. Not for years past had such a long break occurred
between the factor and the Wowasulka household.
Except to bring the medicine, Aitzig had not
been near the house this week. Lucyan had feared
the persecution ; but this absolute peace he feared
still more. As long as Aitzig remained thus invisible,
the danger would appear greater, because less palpable.
It was almost a relief when, a few days later, Lucyan,
standing on the slope at the forest-edge, watching
the workmen as they bored the rocks and laid the
train, all at once caught sight of a familiar black
figure on the road below.

He is coming to me," said Lucyan ; but Aitzig was

not coming. He kept on his way, without so much
as raising his head, or looking up the slope.

He is avoiding me," said Lucyan, with a thrill of
deeper apprehension ; " he wants to pass unnoticed : "
and acting on something nearer an impulse than he
had ever acted on in his life, Lucyan called 

"Aitzig!"

Aitzig looked up, and seeing Lucyan beckon, came
up the slope; threading his way in rather gingerly
fashion between the scattered rocks ; casting mistrustful
glances at the pickaxes and spades that lay about
on the grass. He was mistrustful of the whole blasting
process, as one of the few things that were strange
and unfamiliar to him.

The noble Pan desires ? "

Yes, I want to speak to you ; " for Lucyan had
come to a resolution. " I have remembered about
that money transaction between us."

Aitzig, with his most winning leer, murmured that
it was very gracious of the gentleman to remember so
small a thing.

I have not the money about me now ; but tomorrow
I shall pay you  half of the sum. Do you
understand ? "

"And the other half?"

Another time." Lucyan, though he still partially
retained the power of masking his inward agitation,

was scrutinising Aitzig with a long and piercing glance.
His eyes hung upon the Jew with all the intensity
of a lover gazing upon the beloved object. He had
been conscious of a certain impatience to see again
the man who, as he believed, had attempted his life.
Coloured by his own belief, every sign he saw supported
his conviction. He saw bloodthirstiness where
there was only cunning ; and in Aitzig's very attitude
and expression, he thought he could read the suppressed
rage of the murderer, who has been baffled
for the moment.

He had scarcely strength enough remaining to restrain
the outward expression of his disgust,

Listen, Aitzig," he said, with a poor attempt at his
once so perfect dissimulation; "there was a mistake
about that paper which the Panii gave you. I want
it returned."

"Naturally, naturally," said Aitzig, cringing. "It
is quite natural that the noble Pan shall have the paper
back."

'' You may as well give it to me now." Lucyan held
out his hand.

It is' quite natural," continued Aitzig, as though
he had not heard, " that the paper shall be given back,
when the money is paid."

The money is to be paid tomorrow."

Half of it," suggested Aitzig.

Lucyan withdrew his hand ; he saw it was of no use.
He had not hoped to succeed, for he well knew " the
stubborn nature of the Jew. "

You can go now," he said ; " I shall see you tomorrow."


"At what hour does the gracious Pan command?"

"The same hour."

Aitzig will be there punctually, at the house."

Not the house," said Lucyan, quickly.

Ah, Aitzig understands. Aitzig is not to be
seen there. Which place, then, does the Pan desire
? "

Lucyan hesitated for a moment, glancing irresolutely
around him.

The same place then," he said.

They had moved on some paces in talking, and they
stood now beside a group of large rocks  the largest
rocks on the slope. It was a convenient spot to choose,
near to the house, and yet shielded from the windows,
and veiled from the road by the branches of the garden
trees. The workmen were employed some fifty
paces off. A succession of dull and monotonous
thuds sounded over from where they worked. Three
men were raising and sinking the heavy borer which
was to pierce the rock. There was no reason to fear
their prying eyes ; their eyes were perforce always
chained to the spot they were boring ; and besides,

they were but stupid Polish peasants, whose only
merit lay in muscle.

The same place ? " repeated Aitzig, in a tone of
dissatisfaction. "Does the gracious Pan think the
place is safe ? "

Perfectly safe," said Lucyan. " Who could overhear
us?"

Aitzig laughed. That was not what he meant ; he
was thinking of another sort of safety  of gunpowder,
and flying stones, and exploding rocks. " Ah ! " and
Aitzig jumped a foot from the ground as another
explosion rent the air. There was no cause for fear,
however ; they were out of shot  the last spent
splinter of stone grazed a tree twenty paces off.

Lucyan gave a faint smile of contempt.

Don't you know that they always sound a trumpet
as soon as the train is fired? You cannot get your
money tomorrow unless you wait for it here."

"Let it be so," said Aitzig, resigned. "Just here,
then," and he looked round him. " Between those two
big rocks it shall be."

The rocks he pointed at were those which Lucyan
used jestingly to call his "twins." Taller than a tall
man, they stood close together  but not so close as to
forbid a narrow passage between them, which passage
was blocked at one end. It was just the spot which
children would have prized in a game of hide-and-seek

; but no children had played here within this
generation.

The pair of twin giants which held such high rankin
Lucyan's defunct rockery, and which, clothed in
ivy and crowned with waving ferns, had been its chief
ornament, presented a desolate spectacle now : only a
few long trails still hung down the sides  the ferns lay
trampled on the ground.

Between those two rocks," said Aitzig again, and
he nodded confidentially at the twins. It had been in
the friendly shelter of those very rocks that he had
cowered, while listening to Vizia and Kazimir, on the
day of her ruin.

Aitzig went down the slope again, and Lucyan stood
and watched him. When the black figure had vanished,
Lucyan turned and walked towards the workmen.


The sun was low already, the men had fired their
last train, and were gathering their pickaxes together.

"You are getting on fast, Monsieur Van Hoogen,"
said Lucyan, in French  (Lucyan never lost an opportunity
of airing his French)  addressing a young man
who was buttoning his coat preparatory to leaving the
spot. " It looks almost as if you would be done tomorrow."


Pas demain'' laughed the Belgian overseer, showing
a cheerful double row of teeth. " We shall do buta

short day's work tomorrow ; it is the eve of some
festival, or some anniversary of some patron saint of
the place, they tell me ; and I must let them off their
work two hours before the usual time, in order to make
quite sure that they all have a fair chance of getting
drunk."

My poor rocks ! " said Lucyan, with a mournful
glance around him.

Splendid material," said the Belgian ; " the largest
clump will go tomorrow, I hope," pointing in the
direction where Lucyan had been standing some minutes
ago. " I am almost sorry that I shall not be hereto
see them fly up. Ce serait un plaisir ! But I shall
have to inspect the line further down : they have got
into a mess there  come to an awkward clay-cutting.
Can do no more than see the trains laid; and, with their
patron saint beckoning them to their confounded emi
de vie shops, these fellows are pretty sure to cut and
run as soon as my back is turned. Good evening,
Monsieur Bielinski  fai Honneur de me congeries."

"Bon soir, Monsieur Van Hoogen." And so, with
many polite grins on the part of Monsieur Van Hoogen,
and various equally polite words on the part of both
gentlemen, they went on their different ways.

CHAP TEE XX.

THE LAST TRICK.

I am afraid to think what I have done
Look on't again I dare not."

Macbeth.

Lucian's first thought next morning was, " This is the
day that I have to pay Aitzig half his money."

Aitzig's first thought was, " This is the day that I
shall have half my money paid to me."

The workmen's first thought was, " Short work and
deep luddki; blessed be our patron saint ! "

The work, although short, was long enough to give
Lucy an a headache,  for they were boring rocks again;
and that dull, continuous succession of thuds put his
overstrained nerves on the rack. He wished it would
stop ; and then he changed his mind, and wished it
would go on,  for he remembered that, when the workmen
were gone, Aitzig would come.

By four o'clock in the afternoon the slope was
silent, and apparently deserted ; no workmen were insight.

There was no more reason for putting off the
interview. If Aitzig had been punctual, he must already
now be waiting between the two rocks  waiting
for his three thousand florins.

Lucyan left the house reluctantly. Outside he
paused ; and, with a glance around to make sure that
he was unobserved, he pulled out his pocket-book and
gazed at the notes. The pain of parting with them
had never been so keen. He felt a great repugnance
to that spot among the rocks : slowly down the length
of the garden he dragged his steps towards it.

The afternoon was so silent, and the air so clear,
that even the rustle of a falling leaf was audible ; and
every step of Lucyan's on the gravel sent up a sharp,
crisp echo. No cloud had streaked the pale-blue sky
since morning ; the sunshine lay still and golden over
the slope. Autumn was in full glory. The year, which
in its April youth loved primrose wreaths and violet-scent,
is in its second childhood now. The serious
work of the summer is over ; the orchards are ripened,
and the harvests are garnered ; the furnace of the sun
has burnt the green leaves into gold ; and now the old
year is at play again, and finds its delight in flower-bells
and the coral of red berries. There is a wealth
of playthings all around. Shining spider-webs where
the dew-drops have hung all day ; velvet-winged butterflies,
wonderfully streaked and spotted ; thick-furred

caterpillars, crimson leaves, the rattle of the grasshopper
in the grass,  these are the old-year toys ; and,
like a child at play, he blows about the feathers off the
thistle-tops,  a mischievous game it is, to which many
a sweating peasant will give his curse next summer.

The sunshine is making the most of the time that
remains ; there will not be many more days of this
sort before the winter comes. For all this boastful
display, and this flood of golden beams, the rule of the
sun is waning fast. This very morning Queen Frost
has paid a flying visit to the world : her footsteps are
still on the garden-beds, where she stole over them in
the silent dawn, when mankind was still asleep ; her
finger-marks are on more than one October rose, that
hangs its languid head, carrying death in its heart.
The rising sun scared the frosty queen away ; for when
the first fiery arrow shot over the horizon, she fled from
the earth in haste ; but she dropped her veil in flying.
Early risers could see it still lying over the grass.

Now she creeps out like a thief in the night ; but
soon she will come in the broad daylight, unmasked
and undisguised. Already the plants are beginning
to droop and fade ; the ivy alone, that still lingers at
places among the yet untasted rocks, is only now
bursting into late flower, looking its very gayest and
most festive,  almost, thought Lucyan, as though it
revelled in the havoc that is coming.

VOL. in. M

At that moment Lucy an stopped short,  for his eye
was caught by a small object lying on a rock. It was
a horn-trumpet,  the same, no doubt, used by the workmen
for signalling that the train was fired. Though he
had become familiar with its tone, Lucyan had never
happened to see. the instrument before. He stopped
and looked at it now ; and as he stood looking at it, he
remembered that Monsieur Van Hoogen had told him
that the big rocks were to be blasted to-day.

He looked at the trumpet a minute longer ; then
he looked to both sides of him ; then he took up the
trumpet, turned it over, remarked that the horn was
cracked at one place, and finally put it in his pocket.

It was scarcely in his pocket when he perceived
two workmen approaching. They were looking about
them, kicking the stones, probing the grass with the
handles of their pickaxes. Lucyan understood at once
what it was they were looking for.

You have lost something ? " he said, as they came
stumbling on, without noticing him.

The men looked up, removed their caps, and scratched
their heads. Yes, they had lost something,  the
trumpet for signalling,  but it was not their fault ; at
least each of them was quite sure that it was not his
fault, and equally sure that it was the other's fault.

Ah, the trumpet ! Big and yellow, was it not ? "

No, it was small and brown," they said.

But what do you want the trumpet for to-day ? "
asked Lucyan ; " I thought you had left off working ? "

The others had left off working, explained the men,
pausing for a minute to listen to the far-off sound of
a jovial chorus, sung by their retreating comrades ; but
Monsieur Van Hoogen had left strict orders that a portion
of those rocks was to be gone before tomorrow.
The train was laid ; there was nothing to do but to fire
it and sound the trumpet.

And what would Monsieur Van Hoogen do if you
fired it without sounding the trumpet?" asked Lucyan.


The men looked at each other dubiously. They
were not quite clear as to Monsieur Van Hoogen's
course of action in such a case; for besides beincr
choleric, he had odd notions about safety and the
value of human life  notions that were not at all
Polish.

Lucyan suggested that Monsieur Van Hoogen had
no means of knowing whether the trumpet had been
sounded or not.

That was true, the men agreed ; the Pan was quite
right. But, as the more conscientious of the two feebly
observed, there had been some one among the rocks a
little time ago, and they had not seen him go away.

He must have gone long ago," said Lucyan.

That also was true, the men agreed again. They

were only too ready to let themselves be convinced
that to go off and join their rollicking companions
was the best, the wisest, and the safest thing to do.
Lucyan uttered no word of persuasion ; but in two
minutes' time the workmen were doing exactly what
he intended that they should do. If they lit the
train at once without further search for the trumpet,
they could still overtake their comrades. Of course,
in that case they could not wait for the explosion ;
for the train would take seven or eight minutes to
reach the gunpowder. But, after all, that was not of
much consequence. Would the Pan Marszalek stand
here, just on this spot, where he would be quite in
safety ?

When the workmen had left him, Lucyan looked at
his watch. Seven or eight minutes they had said;
and all the future had become reduced for him to
these seven or eight minutes before him. At what
precise moment the idea had entered his head he
could not have traced had he wished. He only
knew that it was there. It might have been at the
moment when he saw the trumpet lying on the rock,
or it might have been when the workmen spoke to
him. He had laid down no plan ; the plan had laid
itself.

He stood leaning against a tree-stem waiting ; and
as he waited, he was not aware of any trepidation or

hesitation in his purpose. He was aware only of the
terrible slowness with which the minutes were passing.
His mind was scarcely at work ; all his senses seemed
blunted. In a dull stupid sort of fashion he began to
wonder whether Aitzig really were among those rocks.
There were at least as many chances on the one side
as on the other. He might have been detained at
home ; he might have taken fright when they lit the
train at the other side of the rock, even though the
trumpet-note was not given. True, the rock was thick
and would deaden all sound ; but the chance was there
all the same.

Once or twice while he waited, Lucyan put his
hands to his ears and covered them, as if dreading the
burst of the explosion ; but it was not dread that
he felt,  it was rather an ever-growing longing. The
silence of the autumn day was becoming intolerable.

There was a large brown caterpillar crawling in the
grass at his feet. Lucyan watched it with a curious
attention; he wondered whether it would reach the
tree before the train was burnt. It was strange to
think that by merely standing thus with his arms
folded, watching the caterpillar crawl, he was killing
Aitzig all the time. The notion was original, whimsical,
humorous, fascinating.

There was a bird singing on a tree at the forest-edge.
Lucyan listened, and wondered whether Aitzig

were listening too ? and whether the bird's song would
be the last sound Aitzig was to hear in his life ?

The caterpillar crawled on through the grass, slowly
drawing near to the tree ; and the spark which Lucyan
could not see was burning slowly towards the rock ;
and all the time the bird's song continued, and Lucyan
felt as though this would never end.

When he looked at his watch he saw that just six
minutes were passed. Putting back the wattih he
drew out the trumpet. Up to this moment every one
of his movements had been mechanical. He had got
accustomed to the idea, as to a fact already accomplished.
As he held the trumpet in his hand, it
flashed upon him that nothing need be accomplished
unless he chose. The trumpet was at his lips ; but
though he held it there some seconds, there came
no sound. It might have been want of breath that
checked him, or it might have been want of courage,
or it might as well have been that he did not lack
courage.

It was still at his lips when a low dull sound which
he knew well grew upon his ear. The rumble swelled
slowly to a loud report ; the rock heaved, and, bursting,
flew to fragments. There was a cloud of smoke,
a veil of sand, and a shower of small stones. It was
all over.

A sense of relief-came over Lucyan  of sudden, of
immense relief; one way or the other the matter was
settled. The trumpet dropped from his fingers to the
grass as he stood gazing steadily up the slope.

The aspect of the spot was changed, but not as
much as he had expected ; for it was the furthest of
the two rocks that had fallen  the nearest one stood
upright still. Shattered blocks lay on the grass, and
on them the dust and smoke were slowly settling
down again. The silence was once more complete.
There had been no shriek, no other sound beyond the
explosion. The idea of Aitzig being dead came upon
Lucyan suddenly as a complete improbability. He
looked round him. The road was empty ; there was
not a human being within sight.

Curiosity had taken entire possession of him ; he
wanted to know whether Aitzig were up there or not,
and slowly he began to ascend the slope.

Small curls of blue smoke floated towards him ; the
smell of gunpowder made him feel faint, and his steps
grew slow and heavy. The nearer that he approached
the spot, the more improbable did Aitzig's death appear.
Aitzig might at this moment be sitting at the
Propinacya peacefully watering his wodki.

The ground around the rock was rough with sharp
corners of stone. The now lonely twin stood mournful

but intact, staring down in stony surprise at the fragments
of its shivered companion.

Lucyan skirted it, and, coming round the corner, he
saw at a few paces a man lying stretched with his
face to the ground.

That the man was a Jew, the hasten, rent and torn,
told him ; and that this Jew was Aitzig Majulik, he
needed no hasten to tell him.

Dead ! " said Lucyan aloud, for there was no one
to hear him.

The rock alongside seemed to nod in melancholy
agreement.

That one word broke the silence painfully. Even
the humming insects seemed to pause, and the bird
had not resumed its song.

The attitude of the prostrate figure was that of a
dead man ; but Aitzig's face was hidden in the grass,
and Lucyan felt simultaneously a great repugnance
and a great desire to see that hidden face.

He made a step forward, then drew back again,
shuddering, but never taking his eyes off the man on
the ground.

Dead ! yes, surely dead ! " he whispered ; but no
answering nod came from the rock this time.

To Lucyan, it seemed as if it were shaking its stony
head in reply ; and before he had time to ask himself

what it meant, the whole block of stone had tottered,
and, slipping forward, was slowly falling upon him.

The shock of concussion had loosened its hold, or
perhaps the destruction of its brother had broken its
granite heart ; and refusing to survive for even one
day, the solitary twin had sought its own end.

Chapter Accounting

THE TRICKS.

Can no one hear? It is a perilous tale."

Coleridge.

The rock had been wrong when it nodded, and right
when it shook its head; for Aitzig Majulik was not
dead. He was crushed, mangled, and disfigured, but
the breath was still in his body. " He will die before
nightfall," the people said ; and they said the same for
many days afterwards ; but many nights fell, and four
weeks passed, and Aitzig still lingered.

Four weeks had been enough to blunt the first edge
of excitement, curiosity, and wonder which the accident,
resulting in the death of the master of Wowa-
sulla, had awakened. The inquiry and examination
of the workmen had led to no other conclusion than
that it had been an unfortunate chance, coupled with
some negligence.

Lucyan had been buried with much pomp, but little

grief; with many wax-candles, but few tears. His
fate was scarcely to be called a very cruel one, for lie
had been spared the agony of death. Death had made
a clean stroke of it here,  had killed him at one blow ;
he could hardly have had time to understand that the
rock was falling on him.

The neighbourhood had got used to Xenia's black
crape, and to Janina's ; for Janina now openly signed
herself by the name of Bielinska, and the little Marcin,
who had lately made his appearance in the world, and
for whom Janina had immediately bought the very
noisiest rattle that could be found in all Tarajow, was
universally acknowledged as the dead Marcin 's legal
son. No very positive proof of the marriage was forthcoming,
but Kazimir said that she had been his brother
]\rarcin's wife : and the same neighbourhood that had
once coldly patronised the prodigal, now bowed to the
decision of the master of Wowasulka. Lucyan's will
ascribing his fortune to his only child Wanda, now
dead, Kazimir became heir-at-law. The sixth part was
all to which the widow was entitled ; but Kazimir had
shown himself more than generous in restoring to her
her personal fortune. As yet he had made no change
in his own life, and curiosity still remained unsatisfied
as to what his future was to be. Wowasulka
was inhabited only by the widow, and now by Vizia,
dio had indeed no other home.

His communication with the two women had been
slight of late ; but one day a pink scented note was
brought to him, requesting his immediate presence.

The road was deep with mud, for the fine weather
had broken a fortnight ago ; and rain  grey, persistent,
and pitiless rain  had been falling ever since.

To reach Wowasulka, Kazimir had to pass by the
Propinacya buildings ; and here, to his surprise, he
found the road blocked with men who stood in groups,
regardless of the rain, and evidently labouring under
some excitement, though few of them raised their
voices above a whisper, and most of them stood silent.
The men where all Jews, Kazimir perceived, and their
eyes were all fixed in one direction,  towards the
closed door of the Propinacya.

Just as Kazimir was passing, the door opened, and
a small Icaftan-cXdidi figure rushed out, and straight towards
Kazimir it darted through the crowd.

Gracious Pan ! noble Master ! " shouted the little
Jew, " the God of Abraham has sent you."

Come nearer," said Kazimir,  "I do not understand
you;" for the miniature Hebrew, whose long robe,
tiny skull-cap, and diminutively snaky curls, presented
a most perfect copy of his elders, had come to
a standstill, and was looking apprehensively at the
horse's heels. He again shrieked out something, incomprehensible
to Kazimir.

Kazimir, turning to a group of older Jews, inquired
the reason of this disturbance.

"Aitzig Majulik is lying at the point of death,"
said one.

And we are waiting here to pray for his soul," said
another. " The wise man has said that he cannot last
till evening."

And he has been calling for you all night," said
a third. " Listen ! you can hear it now ! " and in the
silence which followed, Kazimir could distinctly hear
the voice of a man in delirium calling out his name.

Pan Bielinski ! Pan Bielinski 1 " it screamed.
'' I have to speak to the Pan Bielinski, to the master
of Wowasulka. Will no one call him ? Will no one
call him ? "  and the rest was deadened by the thickness
of the wall.

Kazimir sprang from his horse.

Immediately there rose a murmur in the crowd.
On all sides the Jews pressed forward towards him.

Let me pass," said Kazimir ; " I mean to go to
him."

You cannot, you cannot ! " they cried all round
him. " Your foot may not cross the threshold of his
house. Would you weigh down his soul at the moment
of flight ? Would you bring him back to earth
whom Jehovah calls to heaven ? The Angel of Death
stands at the door ; you cannot pass ! '

And the Jews, in their excitement, pressed close
around him ; and some held him back by his cloak,
and others put themselves between him and the door ;
while the wildest amongst them tore at their curls in
rage, and dancing about furiously in the mud, screamed
at the pitch of their voices, " Wai ! Wai"! the Gentile
must not pass ; he must not pass ! "

Make way, cowards ! " he said, shaking off on
either side some half-dozen of dirty hands; and
as his riding whip was stout and his mien determined,
the Jews danced out of his way; and, pursued
by a chorus of furious yells, Kazimir entered
the house.

With trembling fingers the little Hebrew bolted and
locked the door behind them ; and then drew Kazimir
forward along a pitch-dark corkscrew passage.

The same voice which he had heard through the
wall met his ears here, louder and more plaintive,
growing more distinct with every step along the passage.
Through the opening door it burst at last upon
him like the grating of some ill-tuned instrument, for
the poor wretch was hoarse with calling. And through
it all there ran an undercurrent of nasal recitation,
which never fluctuated in tone, however shrill might
grow the cries of the man in delirium.

The room was square, low, and close to suffocation.
Over each window there hung some piece of black

stuff  on one a ragged shawl, on the other a threadbare
blanket  shutting out the light from the lower panes.
There were at least seven beds in the room, all ranged
along the walls, and all heaped with feather-pillows,
whose embroidered stripes showed in strange contrast
to the dirt and dust around. Every bed was of a
different shape and height, as was also every chair in
the room ; for they had each been picked up as the
occasion offered, and there was not one of them which
had not been bought a bargain.

In a further corner, a mass of old iron made a rusty
hillock,  a sack bursting with goose-feathers lay alongside
; above it there hung two thick plaits of fair hair,
 which, only a week ago, had still wreathed the head
of some peasant-beauty. There were jugs too on the
table, and bottles, and a mingled smell of ivddki and
garlic pervading the room. The door of a closet in the
wall stood ajar, just wide enough to afford a glimpse
of a broken bird-cage, and of a saddle on which the
leather hung down in rags. Smaller objects, such as
old tooth-brushes, single ear-rings, and pocket combs,
occupied a higher shelf to themselves.

Several people were in the room, although, in the
half darkness, Kazimir could not at once distinguish
them all. A youth was laying straw in the centre
of the floor ; some paces further, a man sat crouching
on his heels beside one of the beds; and on that bed

there lay Aitzig Majulik, supported in the arms of his
wife.

The woman's feet were slipshod, and her petticoat
patched ; she wore a dirty cotton bedgown, a ragged
neck-handkerchief, a greasy satin wig, and a coronet
of pearls and diamonds, which might have graced a
crowned head. There had been a time when the teeth
of Aitzig's wife had been as white as those pearls, and
her eyes as bright as the diamonds that shone among
them : now the jewels only served to set off the
wrinkles of her withered cheek, and the sharp lines
of her haggard features. They made a dazzling frame
to her ugliness ; for the teeth that remained to her were
yellow, and the eyes sunken and dull, showing no
lustre either of tenderness, pity, or grief, as she held
up her dying husband in her arms.

As Kazimir entered, the shrill cries dropped suddenly
; and when he approached the bed, Aitzig lay
quite silent, and stared at him blankly.

You called me," said Kazimir  " here I am."

Aitzig examined him with anxiety, a puzzled frown
upon his face.

I want the master of Wowasulka ; you are not the
master of Wowasulka."

There is no other now."

I wish you were the master of Wowasulka," said
Aitzig, in a whisper so feeble that Kazimir could

hardly catch it ; " you would not have treated a poor
man as the other did. Oh cruel, cruel, world ! "

He has been wandering since yesterday," observed
the wife, in a mechanical tone.

Aitzig lay and stared at Kazimir, as if struggling to
get at some conclusion. Suddenly he seemed to have
reached it ; he clutched at Kazimir 's arm.

The paper," he whispered  " the paper ; you have
got it for me? you have brought it to me? where
is it?"

What paper ? I know of no paper."

The voucher for the six thousand florins ; the railway
money. Ah, my memory is good : you wanted me
to give it back ; but no, no, no, Aitzig is no fool,"  a
shade of senseless cunning passed over his white face,
" only now they have stolen it; they could not find it
in my kaftan ; it is lost  lost ; but you have brought
it back ? " and eagerly he stretched a shaking hand
towards Kazimir.

I know of no paper," said Kazimir again.

The* sick man gazed at him long and piercingly,
then dropped his hand, and turned deliberately round
in his bed, away from Kazimir.

Oh, I forgot," he said, with a weary sigh ; " it was
the other brother."

For several minutes he did not move, and the nasal
invocations of the crouching Jew beside the bed were

VOL. III. N

the only sound in the room. The silence was so long
that the old Jewess bent over him scrutinisingly, and
then inquired of her grandson whether the candlestick
were ready, and the sheet, and directed him to
take the cracked mirror from the wall ; for it is bad
luck to see two corpses in the room, instead of one.

Outside also, the silence had been noticed ; the professional
mourners began to give a few preliminary
howls, as though to get their voices into training for
the labour that awaited them.

The howls aroused Aitzig ; he moved again in his
bed,, and this time there was a return of intelligence
in his eye. It alighted first upon his eldest grandson.
"mind, Since," he said, almost in his usual voice,
the feathers are not to be given under eight thirty-five
; the soft ones at the mouth of the sack, the stiff
ones below."

Then his eye travelled on towards Kazimir.
"Your brother is dead," he began abruptly. "Do
you mourn for him ? "

Why should I not ? " said Kazimir, evasively.
Aitzig shook his head. " You should not mourn for
him. What was he to you when he lived ? A false
friend, a false brother, a traitor."
Hush," said Kazimir, quickly.
The crouching Jew broke off his recitation, and sat
down to rest upon a bundle of old coats ; for Aitzig

was not dying as quickly as he had expected, and
his joints were cramped by the hard boards.

"Hush," said Kazimir. "What can you know
about it?"

"What should Aitzig not know? Aitzig was his
right hand ; without Aitzig he could have done nothing
of what he did. I worked his plans; I knew
his secrets. Ah, secrets are good things ! " cried
Aitzig, in feverish excitement  "for secrets bring
money ; everything is good that brings money. The
stinking grease brings the chinking gold, they say.
Tell me, Pan Kapitan, will you pay me for the secret ?
for all the secrets ? How much gold will you give to
old Aitzig if he tells you the lady's name ? " His
mind was beginning to wander again.

Is the straw laid ready ? " asked the wife, in a dry
whisper.

Kazimir looked at her inquiringly.

They die more easily on the ground," she explained,
in a matter-of-fact tone.

No  no  no ! " cried Aitzig, " not yet the straw.
I cannot die without the paper. I must have the six
thousand florins. Noble Pan, give me the paper ; why
will you not give the paper to poor old Aitzig ? " and
he began to whimper like a child.

The watching Jew, leaving his bundle, crouched
down again on his heels, and resumed his recitation ;

and the door slowly opening, there poured in a stream
of black figures, all whispering as they began to move
about the room, making their noiseless preparations.
One trimmed the wax-candle which was to burn at
the head of the dead man, but did not light it yet, for
that would have been waste. Another put together on
the threshold all vessels containing water, ready to be
emptied out on the road when the Angel of Death, in
passing, should have dipped his fingers in it ; for the
water then smells of human blood. Another busied
himself in taking from the wall the many-striped,
many-coloured bag, containing the black and silver
scarf, which had been the proudest acquisition of
Aitzig's life.

And every Jew as he came in passed his hand over
a parchment-tablet in the wall beside the door-post,
and kissed the fingers which had touched the parchment
; 1 and all of them, as they moved about, or stood
in a circle round the bed, cast gloomy and threatening
glances towards the intruder, whose unhallowed presence
was sacrilegiously disturbing the last hour of this
child of Israel.

You should be commending your soul to your forefathers,"
they said to the sick man, " instead of wasting
your minutes in godless parley with a Christian."

1 The universal prayer of the Jews, called " Sadaj," which signifies
Almighty.

Your hour of glory is coming," said another. " Before
sunset you will rest in the bosom of Abraham ; "
and he held out the silver-striped shroud, shaking it
into tempting folds before Aitzig's eyes. But Aitzig
shivered convulsively and turned away; the silver
scarf had no charms for him just now.

0, my God," he murmured after the others, " the
soul Thou hast given me is pure. Thou hast created
it in me, and Thou hast breathed it into me, and Thou

watches over it in the midst of me " He broke off

with a groan, then opened his eyes again. " Since,"
he whispered to his grandson, " remember the big jar
of wddki is not to be sold till it has been mixed. Am
I dying now ? I wonder who it was that killed me ?
There were the workmen, and the sun shone, and
there was a noise like thunder when I stood between
the rocks. I don't remember the rest. Who killed
me? Was it you?" and he turned his head again
towards Kazimir.

Kazimir stood silent ; and for a minute Aitzig lay
silent also, apparently collecting the last remnants of
his mental powers. When he spoke again he had
regained a momentary clearness.

Pan Kapitan, do you remember how you gave up
your rights four years ago ?  all your rights to Wowa-
sulla ? "

'' I remember," said Kazimir.

And how you got a paper which spoke of the Pro-panacea
and the lease ? "

Yes, yes," said Kazimir ; " what of it ? "

I wrote that lease, Pan Kapitan. It was signed
by my name; but that paper  that paper  hush!"
he checked himself  "there are too many people
listening. Bend over me; I will whisper it."

Kazimir bent down to listen : but the face on the
pillow was convulsed by a sharp spasm ; a sort of
shuddering moan burst from the withered lips.

The fit is coming on again," said the woman ; " he
cannot speak while it lasts."

I must go now," said Kazimir, stepping back, and
the black figures all round nodded approvingly : but
Aitzig caught him by the cloak.

Pan Kapitan, Pan Kapitan," he panted, though
twisting in pain, " you must come back. I shall not
die yet ; I cannot die, you know, till I have my
money;" and the cold drops stood on his forehead.
I have a secret to tell you  one of your brother's
secrets. You will pay me for it. Say you will come
back. Promise ! "

Do these fits last long ? " asked Kazimir, turning
to the wife.

An hour or more," she answered, shortly.

I shall come back in an hour, Aitzig."

Promise," said the sick man again.

I promise."

The grasp of the fingers relaxed. " Yes," he groaned,
with a painful effort, " I shall wait for you here at
this place  the same place, but not between the rocks
no, no, no  not between the rocks ; " and the wildness
returned to his eye.

The black circle around the bed opened readily tolet
Kazimir pass.

Lay him on the straw ; it is time," Kazimir
heard them say, as he reached the door ; but in the
midst of his convulsion Aitzig found strength to
shriek 

Xot yet  not yet the straw ! "

They were lifting him out by the time Kazimir had
regained the air, and he could still hear how the poor
wretch was shrieking, " Not yet, not yet ! I cannot
die yet ! " but the screams were drowned in a nasal
chorus of prayer.

The game of Aitzig's life was fast drawing to a close.
This knave was to take no more tricks at the card-table
of the world. But there are plenty other knaves
ready to step into his place. The game never stops
for want of proper cards, nor of players either. For
does not every one of us figure at that card-table,
sometimes as card, sometimes as player ? And is not
life very like a game at which we each have to take
our turn, where we each try to get the better of the

other, and where some must of necessity lose, in order
that others may gain ? To be sure, we can never quite
know who is gainer and who is loser until the end is
reached and the points are scored ; and points such as
these can be scored only on deathbeds.

Aitzig's game is wellnigh played out, as Lucyan's is
entirely ; but not so Kazimir's, nor some others yet.
The game will go on after my curtain is dropped, just
as it had begun before it ever was raised. I have
done no more than show a few turns.

1 have still a few more turns to show ; for there are
cards which might yet be paired off before this round
is closed.

Was there not a pink note in Kazimir's pocket
summoning him to an interview at Wowasulka ?

CHAPTER XXII.

Casimir REVOKES.

 War sie der Flamme night worth, die so feiirig Geliebte, verzeih ir I "

Brinkmann.

This way," said the barefooted servant - girl to
Kazimir. " Xot that door, Pan Kapitan,  this one."
It was the drawing-room door which Kazimir had
been opening, and the room to which she pointed
was Xenia's bedroom.

There was a grin on the girl's stupid face as she
held back the door for him ; and feeling vaguely
uneasy as to the meaning of the grin, and somewhat
surprised at being admitted into this sanctuary, Kashmir,
almost timidly, stepped over the threshold.

It seemed to him that he was stepping right into
a rare plant-house  so hot was the air, and so heavily
scented with rich perfumes, mingling their sweet breath
in an almost overpowering fragrance  patchouli, wood-violet,
and new-mown hay, were all contending for the

upper hand, and with them was struggling another 
and here unusual odour,  nothing less than the smell
of tobacco.

But it was a most delicate and tender tobacco : it
curled in a faint blue wreath from a fragile cigarette,
and the cigarette was held between Xenia's fingers, as
she reclined on a sofa, with her widow's weeds flowing
around her.

And such widow's weeds they were ! Not a fault
could have been pointed by the sternest moralist.
The mourning was as deep as the most iron etiquette
could demand ; and yet in its very depth Xenia had
found means to mirror her beauty. Every touch served
to set it off  from the broad white band encircling the
skirt, with which Polish custom marks the nearest
loss, to the coquettishly chiffonne morsel of crape
which Xenia called her widow's cap, but which
looked more like a big black butterfly settling by
mistake on the side of her chestnut head.

I hope you do not mind my receiving you here 
in this way "  said Xenia, looking down first at herself
and then upwards at Kazimir, confidently, for an
answer. " You know how wretchedly ill I have been
lately; I am quite unable to dress properly." Her
attire was a flowing dressing-gown, gathered by a black
cord into loose folds at the slender waist. The sleeves
were wide and hanging ; and Xenia, as she spoke, gave

a little graceful pull to one of them, as if all at once
distressed at the amount of white arm displayed.

You might have come to see me sooner, Kazimir,"
she said, reproachfully; 'you need not have waited
for my note."

I should have come soon, at any rate," said
Kazimir ; " for you have heard of the change, of
course ? "

About the regiment marching ? "

Yes."

What has that to do with it ? " said Xenia, lightly.

'' Only that I meant to say good-bye."

'*' Good-bye ! " She repeated the word with another
laugh, as if nothing so exquisitely amusing as this
word good-bye had ever been heard. "You make
me laugh, Kazimir ; you talk as if there really were
any reason for saying good-bye."

I hardly understand " began Kazimir ; but

Xenia, who all this time had been drawing persistent
though timid puffs from her cigarette, began to cough
with some violence.

You never used to smoke before," said Kazimir, as
she regained her breath.

Because Lucyan never would let me. There are so
many things which Lucyan would never let me do ;
I have never known liberty before. Don't you find
that the room looks quite changed ? "

Kazimir had noticed already that the room was
changed,  not exactly in any prominent feature, butin
a host of minute details.

It was on Xenia's toilet-table that were now ranged
those numerous scent-bottles and cut-glass phials which
Lucy an had always kept for his own exclusive use.
The porcelain stove, which in Lucyan's time had
been fed but sparingly, was now crammed to bursting,
and glowing to an intolerable degree. The
gardening books which once filled the shelves, where
now piled in a corner on the floor, with the exception
of the well-worn 'Hints to the Rose-lover,'
which, from its shape, had been found a convenient
block for winding some black lace flounces that
required smoothing.

Kazimir had not loved his brother, and yet these
signs in the room pained him. They were not enough
to make him regret Lucyan, but they were enough
to make him again regret that their last words
had been so bitter.

Last night," said Xenia, " I was so frightened by a
dream. I dreamt that Lucyan was alive again, and
walked into the room softly, just as he used to do,
and found me using his wood-violet scent. I think
I screamed, and that awoke me; and it was such a
relief to see that his bed was empty."

She paused, twirling the cigarette between her

fingers, and watching Kazimir from under her eyelashes.
He was rather stupid to-day, she thought,
and slow to take the hints she had given him.

That is why I sent for you," she added aloud.

Kazimir certainly was very stupid to-day; apparently
he could see no connection between Xenia's
dream and Xenia's message.

You are dropping ashes on your dress," he prosaically
remarked.

Xenia brushed them off, with a pout on her lips.

'* I don't think you are getting on very well with
that cigarette. Do you really care for smoking ? "

Oh, very much," said Xenia, blinking her eyes in
the smoke. " So many women smoke, you know ;
don't all officers' wives smoke ? "

Some of them do."

The pretty widow smoked, did she not 1 "

Yes."

Xenia smiled, and threw another expectant glance
at Kazimir. *

And now I am a widow too."

Clearly it was his part to put in the word '' pretty,"
which she had omitted.

His silence provoked her  it scarcely alarmed her
yet.

Do you object to women smoking ? "

No, not particularly."

'' If if you think,  if if you wish it, I will stop,"
said Xenia, most sincerely; for in truth she was
choked and parched, and longing for an excuse to
get rid of her cigarette.

Kazimir disclaimed any such wish.

She tossed her head in a way which made the crape-butterfly
give a sort of flutter in her hair; but the
cigarette was laid aside.

I have made no changes yet in any of the other
rooms," she said ; " but we shall have to get new
furniture in the drawing-room; don't you think
so?"

I have not thought about it," said Kazimir, starting
at something in her phrase.

Of course you will have to decide." She looked
at him with a charmingly submissive glance. " You
must choose it yourself; what is your favourite colour ?"

Black," said Kazimir, rather grimly.

How absurd of you ! " She looked down at her
black dress, shook up her rattling black bracelets, and
blushed a little at the supposed compliment. " But it
would never do to have black furniture, you know ; I
think blue would be best. I never dared to ask Lucy
an for blue furniture ; and  oh yes, I have had all
the flower-pots taken away ; you never liked flowers,
you know, and you were always knocking them
down."

Kazimir's face had suddenly become very grave.
There is no need to consult me' he said, slowly; " I
am going away."

But you are coming back again ? "

He was silent.

When are you coming back again ? " Her voice
betrayed the slightest possible tremor ; the first chord
of alarm had been touched within her.

When are you coming back ? "

I do not know."

But it will be soon,  very soon ? In a few weeks ?
in a few months ? before the end of this year ? "

No, Xenia ; I do not think it will be this year."

She began to get frightened, although still half incredulous.
Every word hitherto had been but a sort of
light skirmishing : she had played and coquetted with
her meaning  had been a little piqued at his slowness
to seize the prize offered  but had been unable to
realise that there could be any positive hesitation' in
the grasping of that prize. She did not quite realise
it yet ; only the grave expression of his face awoke in
her a sort of nameless panic.

Kazimir ! " she broke out, " it is you who should
be speaking now, not I. Will you say nothing tome?"


I will say good-bye," he answered, very low.

Xenia made an attempt to laugh it off; but she was

half sitting up on the sofa now, and, with her bare arms
on the table, was gazing at him anxiously.

Do not look so grave, Kazimir  you frighten me :
tell me that you are happy. Just think how long we
have waited for this moment. I thought that I should
be quite old and grey by the time it came." There was
a mirror hanging straight opposite the sofa, and instinctively
Xenia's eyes travelled towards it. Her
courage revived, and with it her coquetry. " You
have been trying to frighten me, Kazimir,  have you
not ? Look at me, Kazimir ! "

Kazimir looked. He saw a beautiful woman, with
unabashed eyes, and pettishly parted lips. He marked
the coquettish pose: the bare arms, now fully displayed
; the carefully exposed foot ; the hand, which
played with the curl. He knew that every one of
these touches was calculated to work upon him,  and
he wondered a little at his own indifference. Why
was he so cold ? He knew, and had known for sometime
past, that he had gained her love  what love she
had to give. Why did his heart not bound ? Not one
of these signs had power to move him. He was
conscious only of an oppression which made him
long to leave her presence. He rose abruptly, and
walked to the window. Xenia got up and followed
him.

You loved me all the time, Kazimir,  did you not ?

I know you did. It must have been a dreadful time
for you. Do you understand me now ? Do you not
understand yet ? "

Still he stood beside her, silent, and apparently
unmoved.

Oh, Kazimir, how stupid you are to-day ! Do
you not see ? You are to be made happy ! "

That cannot be," said Kazimir, below his breath.

She thought he still doubted his own happiness, as
too great.

But it really can be," she said, with a flippant
laugh. " Lucyan is dead, and you have deserved your
reward ; you have loved me so long ; and you love meas
much as ever, do you not ? Lucyan always used to
say so."

Kazimir's face was averted, and his features were
working now.

Kazimir ! " she cried, with an hysterical scream ;
you must love me still ! You cannot, you cannot be
faithless ! "

As you once were to me," thought Kazimir ; but
he kept down the words.

'' I know what it is,"  and Xenia burst into a flood
of tears,  " you do not think me pretty any more ;
you think I have lost my looks. But it is not true 
it really is not true ; it was only Lucyan who said so
to torment me. It is only the mourning ; black does

VOL. III.

not suit me it makes me look pale ; but I will leave
it off as soon as you like. I know it is only the
black ! " and Xenia, with feverish energy, tore the
crape - butterfly from her hair, and threw it on the
ground ; and pulling off her jet bracelets, flung them
in a rattling heap on the table.

No, no, Xenia ! " said Kazimir, with a deep-drawn
sigh ; " it is not that,  it is "

It is what ? "

I do not know," he said, sadly. " It is not as it
used to be."

What is not as it used to be ? "

Everything is changed."

Changed ? I knew it ! " She stamped her foot.
What do you find changed ? Are my eyes less blue ?
Look at me ! " She laughed through her tears with
brazen boldness.

Oh no, not that."

Has my hair turned grey ? "

No."

Is my skin wrinkled or freckled ? "

He shook his head ; " you are as beautiful as ever,
Xenia."

Ah ! " she drew a sigh of relief " Then, what cadi
you mean ? What is it, Kazimir ? "

What was it indeed ? Was she not as fair as ever ?
Was she not free ? and did she not love him ? Had

he not sighed for her love as for the most precious
thing in life ? and now he held it !

Could it be perhaps that precisely because he held
it, he was able to see at last how poor a thing it was
to have sighed for, and to have gained ? how little
of it, after all, she had to give ?

Nothing was changed, and yet everything was
changed ; it was all different now from what it had
been. But the guilt was Lucyan's, and not hers.
He it was who had turned the once shrinking girl
into this forward woman ; he it was who had fostered
her vanity to further his own ends, who had taught
her that flippant laugh, who had hardened her to
blushes, who had debased what intellect she had,
changed her modesty into boldness; who had done
everything but embitter her sweetness. He it was
who, even dead, had left his influence upon her, and
who from his grave still pulled the strings of the
puppet he had fashioned.

With a good husband, she would have been a good
woman. If a clinging plant be trained to grow upon
an oak-tree, it will in time raise its head as high as
the oak itself ; and if it be taught to trail along the
mire, it will creep through the mud, obedient to the
hand that guides it. It was only that she had learnt
her lesson too well ; it was only that a beautiful thing
had been wilfully spoilt. Oh, it was a pity 1

A pity ! a pity ! " it echoed in Kazimir's heart, 
while Xenia, clinging to his arm, sobbed, and repeated
that she knew it was only the black; that it could
not be true ; that he must love her still  he must, he
must ! for her vanity, seriously mortified for the first
time in her life, lent her a feverish flow of words.

Her arms were round his neck now, and her head
on his shoulder. What would he not once have given
for this ? And now he stood like a statue of ice ;
keenly aware that this silence, this coldness was
ungracious, cruelly ungracious to her; but feeling
equally that if he spoke, his words would be more
cruel yet. What could he say ? Reproaches ? he had
made them long ago. Explanations? she would not
understand them. How should she ever fathom the
reason of this change, she who never looked deeper
than her looking-glass, never higher than her own
exquisite coiffure, never lower than her Parisian shoes ?
Her eyes would have been sharp enough to detect the
first grey hair on her head, the first wrinkle on her
face, but blind to see that which Kazimir saw in her.
No ; it was a hopeless task, and he did not attempt it.
Softly, very softly disengaging her arms, he led her
back to the sofa.

"We should not have made each other happy,
Xenia," he said, sadly. " Once I thought differently ;
but it is I who am to blame, not you. I made a great

mistake, that is all. Forgive nie for this suffering-forgive
me, if you can. You will be happier when I
am gone ; " but she only threw herself on her cushions
and sobbed, and stormed like a child who has thrown
away its plaything, and wants it back again. But
the plaything was broken, and could not be mended :
there was no glue in the world, nor hammer and nails,
which could make the toy whole again. Not even
Kazimir could do it. He had been very loving, and
very generous ; but now his generosity was run dry,
his love was exhausted. For many weeks past it had
been dying a slow death. He could no more revive

it than he could call Lucyan from the grave. There

ft

remained but a bitter regret for what might have been,
and a poignant pity for the suffering he now saw.

And it was unavoidable that Kazimir should exaggerate
the suffering, putting down to the score of her
new affection more than was due to it, and forgetting
to cast in the balance the large proportion of hurt
vanity which caused these tears to flow.

"Will you not say good-bye, at least?" sobbed
Xenia, convulsively, and then flew out at him afresh,
when he attempted to do as she asked him. It was
cruel of him, heartless, inhuman, to speak even of
saying farewell ; she could not have believed it of him ;
and the hysterics began again with redoubled force.

The kindest course was to go, thought Kazimir;

and rising softly, lie walked to the door. There was
no need to tear himself away as he had done once
before, and there was no more danger in the lingering
look with which he left her, wondering a little
at himself for haying ceased to love her. The wonder
was rather that he had loved her so long.

CHAPTER XXIII.

HANDS AND HEARTS.

For Love himself took part against himself."

Tennyson.

Choked with all that patchouli and wood-violet, surfeited
with all that beauty, Kazimir stood in the cool
passage, and drew a deep breath. Looking back at
the interview just ended, there came over him, with
overpowering vividness, a sense of the awkwardness,
nay, the absurdity of the part he had had to play.
A man who refuses the broad advances of a beautiful
woman, can never quite escape looking rather like a
fool. Kazimir felt a wish to do something which
should rid him of this impression. He wanted to be
active now, and not passive ; and the action, he felt,
must be immediate.

Perhaps it was the violence of this revulsion which
suddenly ripened a thought that had lain dormant
within him for some weeks past. All at once it

started up and stared him full in the eyes ; and before
he had even quite realised his own resolution, Kazimir
was already beginning to act upon it.

He opened one door after another, and looked in
hastily ; he eagerly traversed the sitting-rooms and
the dining-room ; he returned again to the passage disappointed,
 the person he looked for was not there.

The house was quite silent, except for the far-off
creak of an open window, and for the strokes of a
vigorous broom which could be heard sweeping a ,floor
somewhere in the distance above. A housemaid might
give him the information he wanted, thought Kazimir ;
and following the sound of the broom, he rapidly
mounted the staircase.

Up here there were many doors also, all closed ; he
followed the sound of the broom from door to door :
it led him to the door of an attic-room ; but just as he
reached it, the sweeping came to a full stop, and the
silence of the house was again unbroken. He looked
at the other doors doubtfully, not quite sure whether
the sweeping had indeed been in here ; then, after a
second's hesitation, he turned the handle.

A current of cold air swept furiously towards him ;
the open window gave a jingling bang, and a cloud of
whirling dust danced before his eyes.

Through the dust-cloud he saw a woman's figure
against the light. She was leaning on her broom and

gazing from the window, but started round as he
entered.

Can you tell me where to find Panna Vizia ? "

Kazimir had got thus far in addressing the housemaid,
when, meeting her eyes as she turned towards
him, he saw that the housemaid was Panna Vizia herself.


Good heavens ! " he broke out, " what are you
doing here?"

Sweeping," said Vizia, coolly, and resuming her
Avork in haste.

Sweeping ! Are there no servants in the house ?
This must not be ; " and acting on his first impulse of
indignation, he tried to take the broom from her hands ;
but she resisted almost angrily.

Why must it not be ? " she retorted, with a sort of
savage sullenness.

But what for ? What are you doing to the room ? "
cried the mystified Kazimir.

It is going to be my room now, and I am clearing
it ; I shall be in nobody's way up here."

Following her glance around, Kazimir looked about
him, and shuddered a little at what he saw.

This was the same room which, years ago, Lucyan
had occupied, when he was still the younger son of
the house, and not its master. But the nest, once so
cosily fitted up, had long stood deserted ; a picture of

comfort then, it was now a picture of desolation. Traces
there still remained of what had been; although a
lumber-room for years past, there were marks, even
here, which spoke of Lucyan. The green box till
stood in the window ; and though the snows of many
winters had rotted the wood, and the sunshine of
many summers had blistered the colour from off its
sides, the ruin was shelter enough for the few shrivelled
corpses of plants, which stood dead but not buried,
trembling dismally in the draught. On the wall there
hung a scrap of white paper, held by one nail only ;
and as it flapped upwards, Kazimir recognised the face
of one of the beauties out of Lucyan's gallery. She
had been the least pretty of them, he remembered.
Among the rubbish on the floor there lay the torn-off
yellow cover of an old French novel, one which had
been in fashion four years ago. There were empty
packing-cases and discarded chairs, and mounds of
dust on every side ; and in the middle of it all stood
Vizia, with her head held high and her hair blown
rough by the wind, looking as if she were the queen
of this disorder, and her broom the sceptre with
which she ruled it.

Do you like the room ? " she asked, with a triumphant
smile, as if she rather enjoyed Kazimir's evident
discomfiture. " Do you not think it comfortable ? "

Not very," said he, with a shiver ; for the draught

was cutting, and perhaps the atmosphere from which
he had just come had rather enervated him.

It will do well enough for me ; I am not a fine
lady, you know ; why should I be ? "

But you are not a servant either," said Kazimir,
with some heat ; " it cannot be proper for a lady todo
housemaid's work ? Are there not enough of them
here?"

Plenty ; but I do not choose to ask them ; " and,
as though expressly to provoke him, Vizia began to
be very busy with the dust-heaps on the floor. " Do
you think I am ashamed of sweeping? Did I look
ashamed when you came in ? "

You got red, certainly."

Nonsense ! Need ? I never get red," said Vizia.
turning scarlet. " And if I did, it certainly was not
for my broom that I blushed, but only because you
caught me at an idle moment,  looking out of the
window, instead of at work."

Why will you persist in degrading yourself ? "

Why will you persist in calling it degradation ?
Is work a degradation ? Do you think I would stay
here, beggar as I am, to live at ease and eat the bread
which you and Xenia give me, if I could not do something
in return ? "

You are talking folly, Vizia."

Am I ? and I should be sensible, I suppose, if I

laid down my broom and obeyed you. Shall I sit
on a sofa and wear kid gloves ? Is that what you
want me to do ? Look, I never wear kid gloves now ;
my hands are getting used to it  look ! " she said,
with a bitter smile, and held her hands towards him,
roughened and blistered with work.

o

And Xenia allows this ? " cried Kazimir, in horror.

Of course ; and why not ? What else am I buta
servant in this house ? "

Stop ! " cried Kazimir  " stop, Vizia ! Will you
be its mistress ? "

She stood still, as if struck to stone  immovable
as a marble statue, and in a moment almost as pale.
Her wide eyes were fixed on him with a look that
was like consternation. The bitter smile which belonged
to her last words still hovered about her lips,
though it had no meaning now. Her hands were
still held out mechanically towards Kazimir. She
drew them slowly back ; but, quick to see the opportunity,
he had hold of them already.

Now only did her expression change. Her smile
faded; she started back proudly, while the colour
flamed in her cheek.

What do you mean ? I do not understand you."

I want you to let me take care of you, Vizia."

I can take care of myself," she said, quickly.

But I can take care of you better. You shall never

work again. You have been working for years past,
Vizia ; why should you not have your turn of rest ? "

Vizia stood quite quiet, no longer trying to draw
her hands from his. . She had not even lowered her
eyes, but was earnestly and curiously examining
Kazimir's face.

Do you know what you are doing ? " she asked,
after a second's pause. " You are asking me to marry
you?"

Of course I am asking you to marry me."

You mean this seriously ? upon your honour ? "

Upon my honour," said Kazimir.

Do you love me ? " she asked, in a sort of breathless
haste ; and as she asked it she came a step
nearer, and, still with her hands in his, stood looking
at him hungrily for the answer.

Her lips were parted : her breast began to rise and
fall convulsively. In her eyes there burnt an eager
light  the sudden flaring of a hope which she had
never dared to foster. It made her into a different
woman. In her shabby brown dress, her sleeves
rolled up housemaid-fashion, with her reddened hands,
her rough hair powdered by the flying dust, she stood
before Kazimir, almost beautiful for once in her life.

A silence had fallen in the room ; for Kazimir,
taken aback by the question so suddenly put, could
find no words on the instant. Love ? Yizia was asking

whether he loved her ? And this he had not even
asked himself. A little time ago and he had loved
Xenia. Cannot affections be transferred ? Could not
the fire which had gone out in one place be kindled
again in another ? Love her ? Why, he wished her
well, he esteemed her, he was grateful to her, and he
loved no other woman  now. Was not that enough ?
It would have been enough, only that something in
Kazimir's heart cried out that he had known another
feeling than this, and that he had called that other
thing love. He could not give them both the same
name.

The silence was not long  only long enough for the
loose window-frame to give half-a-dozen melancholy
rattles, and the flapping picture to hide its face, and
show it again once or twice in quick succession  only
long enough for Vizia to live through a whole lifetime
of hope and fear, and exquisite doubt and torturing
suspense.

Kazimir was true to the heart's core, and yet he
would have said the lie. Nothing but the lie could
still that hungering look on her face. If it was a lie
to say that he loved her, why, then, the world had
been all along mistaken about lies. A lie, such as
this one, must be a good thing ; it could do harm to
no one, and great good to that woman, who hung on
his lips for her answer.

Kazimir's tongue would have said the lie, but his
eyes could not; and before he had spoken, she checked
him.

Do not say it ! I know the answer. I would
not hear a false word from you. You do not love
me."

I will make you happy," said Kazimir, earnestly.

You do not love me," said Yizia, again ; and she
took her hands from his. It was strange how, at the
very moment that the suspense was broken, the flash
of light which had beautified her went out. The
flame, dying in her cheek, left her face of a grey
paleness ; her eyes lost their fire ; her lips their
tremulous curve.

And if you do not love me, why have you asked
me this ? " said Yizia, in a tone of sharp suspicion ;
but before he had time to answer, her mind, travelling
along the line of thought she had awakened, had
found an answer for itself. " Oh, it is clear; I might
have guessed it sooner. You offer to marry me because
I am poor ; you want to undo the harm which
others have done. I am a beggar, yes ; but I am not
quite beggar enough to accept your pity, even when
you give it by the name of your love."

I will not call it love, then," cried Kazimir,
vehemently ; " call it what you like, but trust yourself
to me. It is true that my brother has ruined you ashe

has ruined others ; and it would be no more than
justice if, to repair the effects of that harm, I were to
work at your happiness."

At the cost of your own," said Vizia, sharply.

I understand you ; but you mistake. That dream
is over."

Vizia eyed him keenly.

It may be true, and I do not wonder. You have
come straight from her now ; perhaps it is by contrast
that you find me worthy of regard to-day."

You have no right to talk like this," cried Kashmir,
stung to the quick by her tone; "you have no
right to impute to me motives. My offer is honestly
meant ; and what right have you, either, to belie your
own heart? For all your fierce words, you know,
Vizia, that you love me."

Vizia covered her face with her hands ; but after a
moment she looked up resolutely. " Yes," she said, in
her hardest, most ungracious manner, with no trace of
womanly softness either in eyes or tone,  " yes, I have
been foolish, very foolish and weak. I love you,  I
have loved you for long."

"Then you cannot refuse me," and Kazimir, with
new eagerness, tried to take her hands again; but
Vizia shook her head, and clung once more to her
broom, as though it were the weapon with which she
meant to, fight him.

You quite mistake me. It is just because I love
you that I cannot many you."

I never quite understood you, Vizia ; and I certainly
do not understand you now."

Do you not see ? If we were indifferent to each
other, I might marry you, and be satisfied with the
humdrum sort of affection which is all you could ever
give me ; I might have put up then with having merely
a good friend in my husband ; but this way, this way
it is too much of an experiment."

Let us try the experiment," said Kazimir.

You may be willing to try it, I am not. I never
was beautiful ; in ten years I shall be a middle-aged
woman, and you still a young man. You will
be sought after by the world, by women, and you
would want pleasures which you would not find at
home."

Never ! " said Kazimir, with a very wise smile.
I have outlived all that." For he honestly believed
that his power of affection was exhausted for ever, and
that the romance of his first love was never to have a
sequel.

I should torment myself and you," went on Vizia,
calmly. " I should persecute you with my jealousy.
No : you are too handsome, too successful, too brilliant
a man to be my husband."

"Indeed, Vizia, you underrate yourself, and you

VOL. III. P

overrate me. Such dangers as you talk of are no
longer dangers for nie."

Vizia laughed. "How old are you? Not quite
thirty-one, I think. And your heart is dead, is it?
And you will never love again ? And the world
has no more perils for you ? Bah ! Tell that to
some one else, not to me. You will thank me for
this some day; you will thank me as soon as your
mortified vanity has stopped smarting. What would
be the use of my being a woman if I did not see,
more clearly than you do, what it is that makes you
speak now? It is pity that moves you, and gratitude,
and perhaps some sudden reaction ; but that
will not do for me. How can you dare to say that
your heart is dead, or that you will not love again ?
Believe me, Kazimir, though I am no prophetess, you
will find some other woman to love, and to love you ;
just as surely as that pretty child below-stairs will find
plenty more men willing to marry her, and each of
whom she would willingly marry."

But the problematical woman of the future had no
power over Kazimir as yet; just as he felt no particular
taste for the shadowy men amongst whom his late
love was to make her choice.

Do not put me off with words, Vizia," he urged,
more vehemently. " Your reasons are no reasons ;
you can give me no ground for refusing me, except

that you love me. Why will you speak only of
your cousin's future and of mine ? What is your
own to be ? "

"I know well what it is to be," said Vizia, in a
whisper ; and Kazimir saw that her eyes were wet
now, and her lips quivering. It made him think
that she was yielding''

Have I conquered you, Vizia ? " he said, bending
towards her ; but this time she gave him no answer,
only she shook her head, and taking up his hand
she kissed it once, impetuously, passionately, then
quickly passing him, she left the room.

She was crying before she reached the bottom of
the stairs ; but her tears did not alter one whit of
her resolution.

A nature like hers could not have rested satisfied
with anything short of the most perfect form of love 
so perhaps Vizia was right in her decision. But, again,
had she not allowed her morbid pride to stand between
her and her one chance of happiness ?

Perhaps Vizia was wrong.

CHAPTER Xxii.

AITZIG's SCORE.

I do believe.
Though I have found them not, that there may be
Words which are things, hopes which will not deceive ;

That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream."

Byron.

As Kazimir closed the door, and stepped out into the
chill autumn air, he felt that he had likewise closed a
chapter in his life.

I think I could have made her happy ; but she
would not have it so," he said, with a sigh, which
he could not himself have explained. Was it for the
woman who loved him, or for the woman he had loved ?
or yet for another woman, who had never really lived,
but whom a strange fancy sometimes showed him lying
buried in the Tarajow churchyard ?

He had mounted his horse, and was spurring it down
the garden-road, as though anxious to put a barrier
between himself and the past. He was going to return

to his old self,  to what he had been before he had
dreamed the dream from which he had now awakened.

Vizia's words had impressed him more than he was
aware,  they had revived again his confidence in life ;
and yet he would not believe that they contained a
prophecy. He told himself that he would be a soldier
again, and nothing more, with no other interests buta
soldier's interests. His career should be his one
care ; his comrades should be his brothers ; his sword
should be his mistress ; his country should be his
world. He had spent much time in gathering roses ;
but they had fallen to pieces in his hands, and wounded
him with their thorns. Henceforward he would look
for laurels only.

It might have been these thoughts which made him
pass through the garden in heartless indifference to
the roses that were dying on either side of him. Like
children who have lost their nurse, they seemed to
stretch out their seared arms towards him imploringly.
The few late flowers that still lingered raised their
frost-bitten faces in mute supplication. Would no one
take pity on their agony ? The winter was coming ;
and was there no one to wrap them up in their warm
straw blankets, and save them from the frost's cruel
bite ?

But Kazimir passed them by unheeding. Nor did
he notice, either, how the grey clouds had lowered,

until they seemed to rest on the earth ; nor how the
drizzling rain had gradually turned to sleet, and from
sleet to a small driving snow ; neither did he take
heed of the wind which piped sharply past him, scattering
the russet leaves before it.

He rode on quicker, impatient to be gone : there
was nothing more for him to do here. Yes ; but there
was something more. Aitzig Majulik must be waiting
for him now ; he had said he would be back with him
in an hour, and the hour was past already. Not
that the promised secret had excited his curiosity : it
might be but one of the realities in the delirium of
the dying Jew. How was he to guess that the words
which Aitzig intended to speak would have torn away
the last shred of that veil which hid from his eyes the
whole extent of his brother's villany ?

Would it be better for Kazimir, or worse, if the
words remained unspoken, and if his trust in human
nature, which, although shaken, still lived, was allowed
to survive also in the future ?

He thought now that his last words to Lucyan had
been unnecessarily bitter; but when once he should
know the secret of that Propinacya lease, he might
well think that they had scarcely been bitter enough.

Straight into his face was the snow-drift flying, and
all around him the silent trees took voice. Like the
wild long notes of a dirge, the wind swept towards

him ; and with it came other sounds, as weird, and
scarcely more human.

Dimly at first, then more and more clearly, could
Kazimir distinguish a mass of dark figures flying towards
him through the snow-drift,  carried along, as
it seemed, by the breath of the blast alone ; for, fast
as they flew, the wind flew faster ; and seizing upon
their long black garments  the scarfs around their
necks, their floating beards, and even their snaky
curls  it blew all out straight before them, tearing
them all one way.

Running as wildly as though the Evil One himself
were at their heels, beating their breasts and uttering
unearthly howls, did they fly towards Kazimir. And
in their midst they bore an open bier ; and upon it,
scarcely covered, a human form was to be defined.
A withered hand, half buried in the silver-worked
folds of the Tales, for a moment met Kazimir's eye.

Like a picture in a nightmare  like the mere phantasmagoria
of a fevered brain  like a troop of spirits
born of the driving snow and the doleful wind  they
passed him.

And as they sped along, their shrieks and their
groans carried off before them, the burden of their
lament ran somewhat like this : 

Wai I Wai ! Wai !
Let us v:cep and rend our garments; for there is mourning

in the Jiousc of Israel. Let us heiuail our brother
who is passed away. He lived the life of the just, and
he has died the death of the righteous; and he shall
sprout again and bloom like the herb of the field, like
the flowers of the earth; for he has been gathered to his
forefathers, even to the great patriarchs Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob. Let us weep and reid our garments, and
streiu ashes on our heads, for Aitzig Majulik, who has
gone before its !

Wail Wail Waif'

