VOL. I.

A NOVEL

BY

ELIZABETH Plaster

AUTHOR OF 'THE Markham OP OLLERTOX ' 'A DISCORD'
A Constant WOMAN * ETC.

Enter the Path ! There spring the healing streams
Quenching all thirst 1 There bloom th' immortal flowers

Carpeting all the way with joy 1 There throng
Swiftest and sweetest hours ! '

E. Arnold, Light of Asia

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved

CONTENTS

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER

I. SEEKING THE ROAD

II. A WANDERER 22

III. AN OPENING . . . . . . . 43

IV. A DAMSEL ERRANT 62

V. BY MOONLIGHT 78

VI. SURVEYING THE GROUND . . . .90

VII. VARIED OUTLOOKS . . . . . . 109

VIII. SCENES AND PROVERBS 129

IX. FAIR PASSAGES 145

X. A GUIDE 163

XI. Stumbling-blocks 182

XII. MORE ZEAL THAN DISCRETION . . .202

XIII. A LOOK BACKWARD 222

XIV. A MEETING . 242

XV. MOTIVE POWERS 262

CHAPTEE I.

SEEKING THE ROAD.

Aim high, strike high.  proverb.

A NICE crisp roll came flying out of the diningroom
window of the Hotel des Citrons at
Mentone. It flew with more force than precision,
and hit the wrong man, who was a quiet
invalid strolling down to the shore for his
morning walk. It gave him a threefold shock
to his nerves, by smartly striking him on the
ear ; to his principles, that good food should be
thus wasted ; and to his feelings as an Englishman
that a young countrywoman should so
misconduct herself. The right man was not

VOL. I. / "7 B

farther off than the distance between the feminine
aim and hit. He understood at once, and,
without apology to the wrong man, who sadly
pursued his way, called out, ' Halloo, Corks !
bad shot that. What the mischief are you
after now ? '

A handsome tall girl, of about seventeen,
leant out of the window and replied, ' I want
you to walk with me. You have missed the
train ; it is on the bridge already.'

What a confounded nuisance ! What a
scourge you are, Corks ! '

Not a bit of it. I did not make you too
late ; it is better for you not to go to-day, for
you are horridly out of luck. I have missed
you with the roll, which is one to you ; and I
am going to take you for a walk, which is
another.'

Don't seem to see it ; you will scamper allover
the district ; and I am tired. Can't walk
in this hat either

Put it in the hall ; I will bring you a soft

one and a white umbrella. You may have a
donkey if you like  Monticello has his saddle
on.'

Thanks awf 'ally, especially for the donkey ;
if I must go, I must, and would rather walk
than have you and Mathilde running beside and
whacking the poor beast.'

Mathilde, who passed by just now with a
grave salutation to the gentleman, was one of
the princesses of the Mentonese donkey-women
a beautiful, dignified woman, tall and straight,
with a sad expression in her dark eyes, as of
one dio saw many follies pass by her which she
would not join and could not prevent. She wore
her country dress, perfectly neat and clean  a
flat hat with broad black ribbons, and jacket,
skirt, and apron of striped cotton, soft both in
colour and texture. Hearing that the young
lady did not want her this morning, she went
on, leading her big brown donkey, who shook
his large ears, and took life, without enthusiasm
it is true, but calmly  for if Mathilde often

B 2

called ' eza '  shame  upon him, her words
were harder than her blows, and he was
better ofi* than most of the horses.

The slangy-looking young man, who so
grudgingly accepted his friend's invitation to
walk with her, was the Hon. George Kingdom,
a person of high family and low fortune, who,
having failed to qualify himself for a profession,
was misspending his time on the Eiviera by
living at Mentone and going nearly every day
to Monte Carlo ; it was the train to that place
which he had just missed.

The girl who spoke to him was Cornelia,
daughter of Lieut-colonel John Ashby, by
his second marriage with Eosina, daughter of
the late Henry Stafford, banker, of Carbury,
South shire. A young woman of such respectable
lineage ought not to be found
throwing a roll out of window at a young
ran bound to her by no ties of kindred, and
behaving as if her conduct were of no consequence
to any one. Mr. Kingdon would have

been very angry if his sister had so acted ; but
he encouraged this poor Cordeha, and called
her ' Corks ' in the open street, for, in spite of
respectable names, she was little respected. Her
father was more constant at Monte Carlo, and
at places where the pleasures of Monte Carlo
were to be had, than George Kingdon himself,
and was too frequently described as ' rather
shady 'or as ' a doubtful kind of bird.' Mrs.
Lichfield, her half-sister, in whose charge Miss
Ashby was at present, had nicknames too, and
people wondered why Lichfield let her run
about by herself while he was soldiering in
India.

For part of the winter Mr. Kingdon had
been one of Mrs. Lichfield's admirers ; but now,
in April, he was fallen into the second rank,
partly superseded, partly retiring. He was not
unhappy in his humbler position, and was
nearly as often in the Ashby s' society as before.
Cordelia amused him, and he made himself her
friend, treating her as child or woman according

to the fancy of the moment. Though quite
without conspicuous virtues or any shining good
qualities, he was a gentleman, in a feeble and
ineffective sort of way, and acted up to the
character in treating her as a child when they
two were alone, and as a grown-up young lady
only when he wished to plague Mrs. Lichfield, or
to compel some one else into a show of respect
for the neglected girl.

Probably nowhere in England, even at the
quietest watering-place, would Mr. Kingdon
have walked with Cordeha in her present guise
dusty boots, a rush list with a piece of muslin
round it, a fine, but shabby and not very clean,
gown, and a faded red parasol with a bull-dog's
head for the handle. Yet it was not so much
her dress that made her look wild and unconventional,
as her air  her way of walking and
of looking about her. Though tall and well-built,
with a firm round figure, she looked, nota
woman, but a big child, with a child's freedom
of step and glance, and a child's outward look.

the world and her surroundings being as yet
more interesting to her than herself and her
relation to them.

Her companion did not study her, nor
greatly care what she looked like here in Mentone,
where, after the manner of his kind, he
despised all who were not English as foreigners,
or distinguished but to curse the too obtrusive
German. He did not know, nor would it have
disturbed him to know, that the stately but not
more discriminating Mentonese class all the visitors
together as * les strangers '  convenient as a
source of income, but inexplicable and not worth
explaining; probably mad, and certainly heathen.
He did not care, for he was still rather sulky
at having lost his train, and yet not entirely unwilling
to be led off to the hills by Cordelia, and
to give up this proposed amusement altogether
for one day. So he tramped morosely for the
first dusty mile by the sea, where the beauties
of nature are chiefly hidden behind and beyond
high walls ; but when they turned under the

olives on the hill behind Eoccabruna, lie resumed
his usual mood of apparent good nature and
real indifference to all but his own present
pleasure, which made him ready to be amused,
and to enjoy the rare combination of sunshine
just warm enough and shade just thick enough
which is found under olive-trees in spring on
the Eiviera, and is one of the chief delights of
the choice time and place. He found a comfortable
seat, and began to smoke ; Cordelia
went on a quest for flowers, and found none 
for violets and anemones were over, and the
gladiolus and cistus not yet oui ; a great yellow
snapdragon was all her reward, and presently
she came to sit down by her companion. .

'I am glad you lost your train, George
The Colonel is not going to-day; he has not
been since the day he dropped so much 
Sunday, was it ? His temper is really too nasty,
I should have had to stand it all the morning ;
as it is, I shall not see him till dinner-time, and
Sophy will have to take her share.'

She is much more in the line of filial duty
than you are.'

Yes. If lie vexed the Colonel, he might
have a lit of duty, take her to Worthing, and
settle her there with me and a highly recommended
governess, which Duncan Lichfield 
bless his innocence!  believes to be the case
at this identical minute.'

That would be rather rourh on your
sister.'

Wouldn't it ? Father different from driving
to Monte Carlo, with Lord Weston in the
carriage, and Major Spires, or perhaps you, on
the back seat with the Colonel ; then a little
dinner after, and perhaps a round game, with
pretty gowns and nice complexions, and all the
rest of it ! Fancy Sophy at Worthing, sitting
in a nice damp place on the sand, with her
hair gone soft, minding baby  the daring, he
would like it !  and knowing all the time that
the highly recommended's off eye was on her
from the bow window of the lodgings ; and

might be, for all the mischief there was to get
into ! '

And you, Corks, how would it suit you ? '

'Down to the ground, George,' answered
the girl, looking at him with the utmost gravity
and earnestness. ' Of course, the work and
the deportment, and the punctuality and order,
and the highly recommended generally, would
be huge nuisances ; but life can't be all beer
and skittles.'

Have you found that out ? You must
have been reflecting deeply.'

People who make their lives like that do
not come to much. You are all for beer and
skittles, George ; and, unless you pull up very
short, you Avill never be much.'

That is what my people say, putting it
rather differently. Who knows, however, if
you take to moralising ? A good deal depends
on how " much " you want me to be.'

You do not want to be anything yourself,
you know. I do ; I should like to be something

very particular, and that is why I wish
Sophy had tried Duncan's plan. It would be
hateful ; but I hope I can bear disagreeable
things when they are really necessary.'

Hurrah for Corks, the heroine ! You are
coming out in a new light, my cherished child.'

Look at me here ; do you suppose I do
not know how badly I am treated, and cannot
guess how the money goes ? Do you think it
is nice to have this queer gown, and to feel
Madame Yillemain sneer, and see Baldy and
Beaky turn up their eyes  their sort of nose
won't turn up, but they feel like it ? Do you
think it is sweet to be growing up a ragamuffin,
and knowing nothing in particular,
nearly eighteen that I am ? '

You are growing into a very nice-looking
girl, which is worth something I should say. Xo
one wants you to pass exam., nor earn an
honest living, nor be a credit to your family.
I think it must be fine to be you. Corks.'

That is all you know about it. I ought to

be exactly different. I like you, George, and
it is quite awfully too good of you to chum
with me as you do ; but if I were brought
up like your sisters, you would not tell me I
was nice-looking, nor call me Corks.' This was
said with the utmost pathos, and Mr. Kingdon
took his cigar out of his mouth and looked out
to sea before he answered.

My sisters are not in the least nice-looking ;
their names are Latina and Isabel, and I never
heard that they had anything so jolly as a nickname
between them. It would not amuse
them at all to be chummy with me.'

Ah ! you know what I mean. If I had
gowns like Sophy's, and went to Monte Carlo
when I liked, and not only for a dummy ; and
if I rode anything better than Monticello and
Grisette, and had some music lessons, and
money to spend at Eumpelmayer's, it might be
rather jolly here ; but that is not what I really
want.'

'You seem to have morbid longings for

respectability, a blackboard, and a German
governess. I have none of them to give you,
unluckily ; but if you could moderate your
desires to a gamble, or a pound of marrons
glaces, something might be done.'

It is not respectability that I want  Baldy
and Beaky would cive me that anv morning? for
the asking ; nor the governess either, unless
she were of a sort ; but at Worthing one might
have a chance '

Out with it, old woman ; I cannot bear
suspense. What is this mysterious need of your
being, that neither I, nor a Friiulein, nor the
Misses Greenley can satisfy ? Do you burn to
marry a marquis, or a chimney sweeper ? '

She was sufficiently afraid of ridicule ; her
desire was very deep in her heart, so deep that
it did not often trouble her, though she was
usually conscious of it, but to-day it had
pushed up to the surface. George Kingdon
was only moderately sympathetic, yet her
desire to tell some one, just to hear how it

would sound aloud, was so strong as to overcome
all minor considerations.

I want to be really very good ; not
respectable, or just proper and the right
thing  but real strong goodness, the very true
best kind.'

George tried this best ; he did not wish to
hurt the girl's odd, sensitive, unexpected feelings,
so he struggled ; but the idea of old Grey-leg
Ashby's daughter, the sweet Sophy's sister,
his friend Corks, aiming at exalted goodness,
was too much for him. He looked at the
figure by his side  the indescribable cut of her
gown, which he justly suspected of being an
old one of the Sophy's, the exaggerated frizzle
of her hair, the irreconcilable cock of her
rush hat, the bad style of her generally, taken
with the quickly coming beauty of her handsome
child's face  and he failed, he leant back
against the olive trunk, and laughed long and
loud.

Cordelia was a little hurt  not much, for she

was not used to be considered, and she looked
for something like this from George. Tears
came into her eyes for a moment, but she
turned her face away, and they were gone
before George had recovered his composure.

My dear chill ! My poor old Corks !
What has brought you to this ? Who has
been fiUiniy your venerable head with these
notions It is all a lot of narrow-minded
rubbish, you know, and it won't do at all, for
it is not your line, and there is no greater
mistake than taking up anything not in your
line. It is not the way of any of your people,
unless it be your brother-in-law ? '

I do not think Duncan's way of being
good will snit me : he is very rummy ; but
I do not know  I had not thought of it when
he went to India.'

You will have to alter pretty considerably
before you join the truly pious. May I be
there to see ? '

'No, you won't, if I know it. I do not

want to be pious, or to go about converting
people, or anything like that. I mean something
quite different. I do not think there is
any name for it.'

How will you set to work? There were
some revival folks about here lately. Is it a
Moody and Sankey turn, or will you join the
Salvation Army, and hop backwards before a
lot of roughs, singing hymns at the stretch of
your voice ? That will take some breath, and
I don't see that I can help you. Besides, it is
very bad form, you know, and will not improve
your position with the Colonel or Mrs. Lichfield.'


George laughed again, but he looked suspiciously
at Cordelia. Girls left to run as wild
as she did were always getting into scrapes and
making queer acquaintances. Some low fellow
had been canting and palavering to the child.
He  George  would spoke his wheel for him,
and that without delay.

Of course I could not begin here, or by

myself, and I may have to wait ages long before
I find any one to teach me.'

I thought shepherds always lurked in
ambush to devour stray sleep. I wonder very
much whose crook is round your leg now.
Come, my Corks, make a clean breast of it ;
who has been trying to convert you ? I do
not deny that you might be better, but I want
to know who is going to improve you.'

'' Xo one ! Oh, George ! I have told no
one but you ! '

That is taking the first step in the right
direction.'

Don't you see, it is not just behaving
pretty that I mean, nor doing anything  but
that sort of goodness from inside that a very
few people have. They do not do anything
particular, but they are stronger and nicer,
really better than anybody else ; it just shines
out of them.'

Precious rare folks, I should say ; not
many running about this wicked world.'

VOL. I. c

No, that is just it  there are so very few ;
but I should like to be one of them. I have
seen some, or I should not believe in them anymore
than you do.'

Where are these wonderful people ? Have
you seen any here ? '

'No ; there is little chance in our set.'

I think that was a parson you hit this
morning with the roll. Did you mean gently
to hint that he might find a convert at the
Hotel des Citrons ? '

Next time I want you I will howl out
your name into the street ; you will like that
better. There are some parsons good in the
way I mean, but I do not know them. There
was Mary Morton, our washerwoman's mother,
at Weymouth ; but she could not teach me,
dear old soul ! The best person I know is
Soeur Lucie at the convent school I was at in
Brussels. I wish I was with her again; but
the man who does my grandfather Stafford's
business was down on the Colonel for sendint:

me to the convent. He was an owl to interfere
in the wrong price ! I wonder if he
knows that the governess never came with us
here.'

'Did they try to convert you at the convent?
I believe that for a foolish thing and
making a general muddle of your prospects
in life there is nothing like turning Woman
Catholic. Don't meddle with that. Plymouth
Brethren and Moody and Sankey are frightfully
low form, but they do not land you in such a
pickle with your belongings as the Romans do,
and people are much oftener cured of it.'

I cannot do anything now. Some girls
look to beings soon married, or to beings prodigiously
run after, or very rich. I have seen
some who went in for being very learned, or very
High Church, or nursing, or being great guns
over botany and beetles, or dab hands at drawing
and painting. Those things do not make
people nice, and lots of dummies go in for
them all. I mean to go in for being good.'
c 2

And what is to become of me ? Are you
going to cut me and leave me out in the cold,
or do you mean to convert me too when join
are satisfied with yourself? '

That would be best ; only you will have to
make up your mind and go in for it steadily.
When I find some one of the right sort to put
me in the way, I will tell you ; only you must
promise not to tell any one, nor to plague me.
I am sorry now that I told you.'

You need not be sorry, old woman. Now
let it be a bargain and fair doings. I promise
not to say a word, nor chafe* you ; and you
promise to tell me when you find a patron
saint to your liking and begin your holy
career.'

Very well, I promise. I have a roll in
my pocket ; will you have half ? '

Thanks, no. Eat it yourself, unless you
want it to shy at somebody.'

1 wish I had the other now ; I am s*

hungry. Let us go round the hill and into
the Gorbio valley. There is a path most of
the way, and I want to get some irises.'

You are a rum sort of girl, Corks. I
wonder what you will grow up like.'

CHAPTER II.

A WANDERER.

False blood to false blood joined.  SJiakespeay-e.

About half a mile from the country town of
Maybury in South shire stands a pretty house
known as Ivy Cottage. Its chief architectural
feature is a verandah, pleasantly suggestive of a
sunny situation ; the garden speaks of sunshine
too  the whole is faultlessly neat, and looks as
if a comfortable income were spent there. It is
only partially screened from the high road, and
passers-by catch a commonplace but agreeable
glimpse of easy, peaceful, and wholesome life
within. And it is life, if of a gentle and unexciting
type, that is to be found at Ivy Cottage,
though what the tradespeople call ' the family '
only consists of one old lady, her maids and
her man, her one fat dog, and her two tyrannical

Angora cats. One spring morning this old lady,
Miss Hooper, stood just within her gate waiting
for some one to pass by. She was a gentlewoman
clearly, though of a very plain and
unornamented pattern ; a square simplicity expressed
her habits of mind and life  floridness
and elaboration were needless to her, she had
nothing to hide and nothing to pretend to. She
was rather short of stature, solid rather than
stout ; she had a bright complexion, and very
bright eyes ; her cap-ribbons were bright too,
and her dark grey hair made crisp curls all
round her wide forehead. Her head, held
upright, expressed great energy; but her figure
looked stiff and immovable, for she was lame,
and only walked slowly and with the aid of a
stick ; to come from the house, through the
flower-garden and by the little carriage drive to
the gate, about one hundred yards in all, was
the extent of her walking powers. She looked
along the road in the opposite direction from
the town, and presently saw what she had come

to see  Mrs. Wastellll, of Wastellll Warren, in her
old bonnet and grey shawl, walking with a
majestic and highly trained air along the liberal
greensward that borders the road, holding up
her gown with one hand and carrying a tin pail
in the other. This is a woman of middle age,
tall and graceful, with a fair face still ; gentle
and thoughtful, she looks wise with a pure and
guileless wisdom, and though she has known
both sorrow and joy, it is plain that she has
never entered into any hard and vicar conflict
of life  she has the outward look that
comes of inward peace and the total absence of
selfish aims and self-conscious struggles. She is
Miss Hooper's niece, and she smiles with pleasure
at the old lady's greeting.

I thought you would be coming down
about this time, Jura, as it is the day for the
district meeting. It is a long walk for you.'

Yes ; but Lettice is going to Lee this afternoon,
so I must e'en trudge. Mayne's cart will
pick me up on its way from the station. I have

special business at this meeting, and Dinah
Bowing's soup '

Miss Hooper was usually ready to plunge
into poor people talk, but something else was
in her mind to-day. 'Julia, I have sent for
Eosina's child.' The younger lady forgot her
benevolence and drew nearer the gate.

Have you. Aunt Susan ! Is not that more
kind than Avise ? Will not a child trouble you,
to say no more ? '

You are youn enough to know how the
years go. I thought of a child, too ; but
yesterday was Eosina's birthday, and in thinking
of her I counted that this girl must be nearly
eighteen. As it was wet, and no one came to
keep me out of mischief, by post time I had
written to that man, and asked for her to visit
me. Ever since I have been doubting, and
waiting for you to come and call me a foolish
old woman.'

Perhaps too kind an old woman. If the
burden come, we must share it with you. I

hope that man will be civil to you. Poor
Eosina ! How much this gives one to think of.'

Mrs. Wastell's eyes grew sad ; very rare
tears were in Miss Hooper's.

Poor Eosina ! How we loved her, and
what shipwreck she made ! Juha, though she
is dead, dead fifteen years, I am never sure that
I fully forgive her. Shameful is the only word
for her marriage, and I am sore and angry still
when I think of it.'

Yes, it hurts us still ; but I am sure you
forgive, or your kind old heart would not go
out a-wandering after her daughter.'

Perhaps it is only a wilful going in search
of trouble, and a throwing away of the peace
of these last years. Suppose she is like her
mother ; she may be, and it would be too
much to go through ail again.'

K only she be not like her father ! '

This was putting into words Miss Hooper's
secret dread. For forty-nine years of her life
the ' wicked man ' of her devotions had been

vague, abstract or varying ; but for the last
nineteen years he had become concrete, acquired
a distinct personality, and stood in the shoes of
Colonel John Ashby, her late niece's husband.
She made a comical, yet piteous, face at her
friend  this other niece, who was so much
better than Eosina, so entirely rejoiced in and
approved, yet hardly so dear.

Never mind. Aunt Susan ; a girl of eighteen
will not put us all to the rout. We at the
Warren are as much bound to her as you are,
and she shall be made over to us should she
prove too much for you and the old maids.'

Said Mrs. Wastell presently to Mr. Diane,
the Vicar of Maybury, ' Aunt Susan is in a little
trouble, Philip. Shall you see her soon ? '

I was there on Monday ; I will look in this
evening, instead of Merrier.'

Miss Hooper and the Maybury clergy made
pets of each other. It was not easy to say
why she should be on a different footing with
them from the other parish old ladies, but she

was. This favouritism had gone on for years,
and though Ivy Cottage was now more of a
second clergy-house than ever, owing to Miss
Hooper's strong delight m her present vicar, no
one ever found it of any use to be jealous of
her. She was the loyal motherly friend of one
generation after another of curates ; any well-conditioned
young man found it a pleasure to
be favoured by the kindly old lady  so shrewd,
sensible, and full of fun, and so ready to bear
the burden of any trouble they might bring to
her. Religious talk was seldom heard therefor
Miss Hooper was full of shy, old-fashioned
reserve on things dearest to her ; but there was
a quiet confidence that the foundations were all
right, that gave a mingled firmness and liberty
for all that was said to or before her.

Just now the Maybury clerical staff consisted
only of two curates, though sometimes there
were three. Of these two, Mr. Knox, the senior,
was a dry, practical little man, upright and
severe, carrying terrors for the ungodly, and

not generally known to be extremely tenderhearted
and to cherish the pathetic romance
of a hopeless engagement. The junior, Mr.
Merridew, was a bright-faced, happy young
creature ; rather embarrassed by his high spirits
and sense of the ridiculous, and much afraid of
beinsc thought frivolous. Mr. Odiarne being
unmarried, the body of divines lived at the
Vicarage, composing what Miss Hooper called
a ruugh-and-tumble household, bestowing on it
her sincere but needless pity.

After Mrs. Wastell's hint, it was not long
before Mr. Odiarne went to Ivy Cottage. It is
not easy to describe this Vicar, for descriptions
convey the idea of quite an ordinary kind of
clergyman, and he was not ordinary. Mrs.
Stepney, a clever flippant sort of person among
the neighbours said that he was like a chapter
in the Bible, having a simple quaint sweetness
at first reading, and when read by simple folk,
but that scholars and students found him to
be full <)f occult learning, deep meanings, and

varied interpretations. He was very thin and
unusually tall, very straight and upright ; this
fine carriage did not prepare people to find him
gentle and absent in manner, and rather reluctant
in speech. His face was straight and firm,
with features a little small for his height, his
complexion was dark, and his hair and short
whiskers were at this time of an iron-grey
colour. To those who saw him day by day, he
appeared as a quiet, hard-working, and not
very popular parson ; he owed the last defect
to being quite unable to make a fuss about
people, and a very marked dislike to being
made a fuss about ; but he was never fully
seen or known but in his preaching  then his
eyes flashed, and his speech was free, his great
powers of mind had full play, his strong, deep
enthusiasm burned and glowed, and his eloquence
was the hot overflow of his full heart.

Can you speak like that to an unsympathetic
audience ? ' asked a brother cleric of
him one day after a sermon, during which the

strong excitement of the consideration had been
very apparent.

I do not know ; I do not remember ever
to have had one,' was the innocent reply.

Mr. Odiarne was not related to Mss Hooper,
but he knew her before he came to Maybury,
eight years ago, and he followed the habit of
his cousins, the Wastels, and called her ' Aunt
Susan,' which pleased her well.

I have not heard much of these Ashbys,'
he said, when Miss Hooper told him of her rash
act of invitation.

No ; one speaks little of people whose
very name is hard to utter. My sister
Mrs. Stafford had but one child, and as she died
when her baby was quite young, I thought the
more of the little one that was left to me. My
father was living then  an invalid, helpless
rather than old  and little Eosina was the
brightest and dearest things in our lives. Julia
Wastell was the daughter of my half-brother,
who lived in London, and she was in no way

dependent on us, or needing motherly care, as
Eosina did. We were living in the old house
then, Need Place ; and you know where Henry
Stafford lived  in the Parchment's house, a
very good house  the bedrooms are excellent.
We saw the child every day, and in her
holidays she stayed entirely with us, and Juba
came too. Eosina was Juha's chosen friend ;
and though we all spoilt her, I think Julia's
devotion was the most spoiling of all, for
she was older, steadier, cleverer, and much
better brought up. It was the child's beauty
that bewitched us all ! '

You, Aunt Susan, who have quite a prejudice
against good-looking people ! '

I am going to tell you why. We idolised
that girl  her father and mine, Juha and I, we
were all alike. We admired her going out and
her coming in, her little naughtiness, as well
as her affectionate ways ; every new gown that
she had we conveyed to her that it was she
who adorned it ; every other girl we found her

inferior, and we let lier see that we did so.
She was very pretty, a lovely child, a graceful,
dancing, winning creature, full of frolic and
pretty, unexpected ways. She was full of little
rebellious, too. and would play at all sorts of
pranks, sure of oiu' forgiveness. We treated a
downright disobedience no more severely thana
bit of mischief, and did not make enough
of the little deceits and playful deceptions by
which she got her own way. At the time, all
this seemed but pardonable weakness, and the
indulgence needed to make the life of a
motherless girl as happy as possible ; now I
know that it was sin. Worst of all in me, for
Julia was young herself, and had a girl's
generous infatuation for her younger, prettier,
and more brilliant cousin ; Henry Stafford was
much engaged and troubled with his business 
he had no other joy, and a man, too  but I
might have known better ; in me it was sin,
blind and selfish sin I '

You have repented it long ago ; I cannot

VOL. 1. D

allow you vain regrets,' said Mr. Odiarne,
gravely.

Miss Hooper's vigorous old head bent a
moment from its upright carriage, and she was
silent for a space.

It must have been a butterfly nature  she
could not have had much character ; we made
her selfish, and did not look for her faults ; but
she must have had little feeling, and certainly
no principle.'

I do not yet know her fault ; but in such
a life she would have been little tried, and have
learnt no self-government in the school of experience.
You know that ideas of right and
wrong can hardly be called principles till they
have had many trials.'

I know that an old maid like me is not fit
to bring up a child ; and you, Philip Odiarne 
well, a man is of no use when a pretty girl,
child or woman, is in question ! But you were
not there, so you need not look ashamed.
Ah! she knew nothings of self-denial, self-restraint

 and we did not teach her. God
forgive us !

In those days there was a good deal of
society about Maybury, of a kind that has
passed away now ; it was pleasant for the
young people, and I used often to take Eosina
out, with and without her father. A Major
Ashby was often seen about Maybury in the
hunting season, sometimes at the inn, and
sometimes in lodgings, when he had his wife
and child with him, and on his long leave.
They were rackety, ultra-fashionable people,
not of our sort. The wife's behaviour was not
what was then thought becoming in a married
woman, though the husband was much quieter.
He was very handsome, and had good manners ;
he was more of a man of fashion than most of
Eosina's partners, but being at least forty, and
married, we saw no reason against her dancing
with him occasionally. She would say she
liked him better than the young men, of whom
she had plenty of choice ; but that seemed only
D 2

a little coquettish air, and she made friends
with the child in the street, though I do not
think she knew the wife. Another winter this
Ashby spent his leave with the Mansions, of
Stone House, bachelor brothers of no good
reputation. He was alone, and it was known
that Mrs. Ashby had left her husband ; there
was a divorce, and the child was in the father's
charge. Of course, this was not much spoken
of before Eosina, but she knew quite well that
Mrs. Ashby was not dead. Ashby was not at
the dances that winter ; we met him in the
town sometimes, but he merely bowed ; and it
occurred to none of us that Eosina could have
any further acquaintance with a gentleman
staying at Stone House, and not known to her
father.

'One day some one said significantly to
Henry that Miss Stafford seemed to enjoy her
walks in the Birch Piece with Major Ashby.
You know that the garden of that house opens
on the Birch Piece, which was very little frequented

before the new bridge was built ; and
Eosina used to come that way by herself to
see us, though she never walked alone through
the town or into the country. Henry was terribly
vexed, and scolded everybody but Eosina.
Lie told him a lie, and partly satisfied him ;
but in a few days he went to the Birch Piece
himself, and met the two strolling together
as if it were quite a habit. Ashby was very
cool, and rather insolent. He said he was now
free, and wished to marry Eosina ; but we have
always thought that he had only been diverting
himself, and calculated on her father's complete
refusal. Henry could not bear to see
Eosina's tears, and she persuaded him to take
the matter seriously, and make some inquiries
about Ashby. It was a pity  if he had been
sent about his business at once, there would
have been a speedy end so far as he was
concerned, and Eosina would not have died
of a little fretting  or so we thought, too
late.'

Ah ! we have most of us plenty of after-wisdom,'
said the listening Vicar.

Ashby was bitterly angry with Henry for
asking about him, and vowed vengeance, which
to be sure he took. We heard nothing good
of him ; apart from the divorce, which was
obstacle enough for us, and the fact that he
had been courting the child before he was free,
he was a known gambler, and had exchanged
from his late regiment under doubtful circumstances
; he had many debts, no prospects, and
very little property ; and it was broadly hinted
that more care and attention might have saved
his wife from her ruin. It was out of the
question that he should be engaged to Eosina,
and she was told so with all care and tenderness,
and even apologies, from us all. Julia
was sent for to be with her, and a foreign tour
was planned ; but at the end of a fortnight,
when I, an old fool, began to think she was
resigning herself, she ran away with that man,
and none of us ever saw her again.'

Poor girl, poor girl ! ' murmured the Vicar.

Father say, her poor father ! ' exclaimed
Miss Hooper, briskly ; however far astray her
own sympathies might go, she desired to find
her pastor's in the right place. ' I will not
speak of myself, we grow used to our burdens ;
but Henry's grief was terrible ; most of all he
felt her deceit and the lies she had told. It
was her heartlessness that hurt Julia and me
the most. Even my father took it greatly to
heart ; we thought him past caring ; but his
last days, otherwise so peaceful, were all
clouded by the strong-doing of our darling.
Julia was married in that same summer and
came to Wastell Warren. We thought very
highly of your uncle, and he was so devoted
to and suited to Julia, that we could not regret
his being a good deal older and having a son
already to inherit his property. She was very
happy, but we were all so cast down and bereaved
that we could hardly take comfort in
Juha's joy.'

*i And Mrs. Asliby?'

She was married  if that can be called
marriage  to some horrid foreigner, and has
lived abroad. Oh ! you mean Eosina. She
never wrote ; she never asked forgiveness ; she
died and made no sign, three years after she
left us, when her second child was born ; it
died too. We think Major Ashby meant her
to be reconciled to her father, because of the
money ; but he hated Henry, and so put it off
too long, deluding her with false hopes : this
we gathered from his letters at the time of
Eosina's death. For her, the only thing that
showed she thought of us again is that she
named her girl Cordeha, after her own mother,
my sister. That is not much to go upon, for
we were all proud of the old family my mother
came of, and from which we got the name.'

In this sort of case you must pick up all
the crumbs. She probably repented sorely,
and, we may hope, fully.'

I sometimes think that if she had fallen

into a well the clay before Henry heard of her
acquaintance with Ashby what a saint we
should have made of her, and what a gentle
tender regret we should have felt.'

Ah ! the saints are the tried ones, only we
do not always see it ! Is that all your story ? '

'So far as such a story is ever all told.
Henry Stafford died a few years after Eosina.
He was a true brother to me, and more in my
life than Oliver  Julia's father. He lived in
hope of reconciliation nth Eosina ; and when
her death deprived him of that, he made no
fight in his last illness, and died of what I
thought very insufficient bodily cause. He was
not rich, apart from his earnings, and he left
his property to his brother  except about two
hundred and fifty pounds a year to Mr. Harley,
his partner, for the benefit of Eosina's child. It
is more than strictly tied up, for it is that good
Horley's own ; he is only bound, as an honest
man, to use it for this girl's benefit ; yet Major
he is now Colonel  Ashby contrives to give

him a great deal of trouble about it. It was
a suspicion of Horley's that the girl did not
have all the good that she ought to have from
the sum he at present allows that decided me
to ask her here.'

Miss Hooper ended with a heavy sigh, as
much of foreboding as of the pain of retrospect.

She may be a comfort to you yet, dear
Aunt Susan. We will see that she is not too
much of a torment.'

Thank jt-qu. Juha says the same ; but I
must not pull down a load on my own shoulders
and then cry to all the world for help.'

CHAPTER III.

AN Opening.

She spoke, and, lo I her loveliness
Methought she damaged with her tong-ue.

Jean Ingeloio.

One day, not long after Cordelia's last walk
with George Kingdon, Colonel Ashby was discovered
to be in a very bad temper. This was
not so rare as to excite much surprise, and
he was the more vexed because his younger
daughter took no notice of his disturbed state.
She was feeling lonely, dissatisfied, and embarrassed
with herself. Mentone was growing
very hot ; she had walked a long way in the
morning, and was tired  she who professed to
be noticeable ; and she had provoked a battle-royal
with the Misses Greenley, and got ruffled in
it  she who professed to care nothing for their
opinions and announcements. The elder and

invalid Miss Greenley was the more aggressively
pious and overbearingly religious of the two
sisters. She had a formidable hook-nose, wore
a very fierce cap, and was always ready to do
battle with the open sinner or the Romanist,
whom she regarded as being on a pretty equal
and very low level, as regarded their prospects
in the life to come ; she was in the habit of
explaining this with great vigour of expression
and freedom of outlook. Her sister, who washer
constant nurse, seconder, and souffre-couleur,
was milder, smaller, and tamer, both in
aspect and speech ; she looked as if she would
have had delicate health, had not Miss Greenley
begun first, and so acquired a prior claim to
care and consideration. She wore no cap,
though the space between the two sides of her
hair was a ' parting ' indeed, fully two inches
wide.

The places of these ladies at the table of
the Hotel des Citrons were next to the
Ashbys ; opposite sat a Pole, who possessed all

the talents for conversation with ladies  pretty
ones  that so eminently distinguish his nation.
Unused to the freedom enjoyed by English girls,
he found Cordelia a delightful novelty. The
fun between them was often fast and furious ;
and Cordelia, on this occasion, stayed in the
dining-room to enjoy it after Mrs. Lichfield,
who never flirted noisily, nor across the table,
had finished her luncheon and gone upstairs.
Goaded and scandalised by this behaviour, Miss
Greenley expressed an opinion that Cordelia
was a reprobate, and required much praying
for.

I beg you will not think of it, Miss
Greenley. I suppose it is possible you might
succeed, and I am sure I do not want the
things that you would ask for,' was the flippant
answer.

Oh, my dear ! Augusta's prayers are a
treasure indeed,' remonstrated Miss Amelia.

I should not mind yours so much. Miss
Amelia, though I am afraid you would like to

see me a very damj, spooney kind of creature ;
but I must firmly decline Miss Greenley's.'

'You know not what you cast away,'
pleaded Miss Amelia.

Yes, I do. My family would be truly
grieved if they were answered. Have you
ever seriously sat down to consider how deep
they would be in the waters of affliction if I
were to turn goody-goody on their hands !
Picture my aged parent's despair ! I might
even come to think it wrong to quarrel with
my daily omelette ! '

Cordelia retired victorious, to the joy of the
Pole ; for Miss Greenley had just given the landlord,
the secretary, and three of the waiters a
very poor time about the omelettes served at
luncheon.

In their little salon on the first floor sat
Colonel Ashby and Mrs. Lichfield, in peace
and amity, till Cordelia came. Colonel
Ashby was a very handsome man, tall and well
made, with a broad smooth forehead, and darK

hair turning grey in a becoming manner :
thinner than formerly, but still showing as
much inclination to curl as was compatible
with patrician fineness and delicacy of growth.
His whiskers curled in the same discreet
manner, and under his small moustache was
seen a mouth that always smiled. He was
chiefly terrible when this fixed smile did not
accord with his feelings at the moment, and
had to be contradicted by the imperative bend
of his nose, the uplifting of his well-marked
eyebrows, and the flash of his dark eyes.
These eyes were handsome in themselves, but
their setting sloped too much downward at
the outer corners to be in keeping with the
Colonel's broad forehead and constant smile.

sirs. Lichfield was smaller, fairer, and with
less accented features than might have been
expected from her father's daughter ; but she
resembled him in her smile, and in the peculiar
setting of her eyes. Her pretty head was
covered with admirably arranged little curls;

her gown was fresh and lately put on, and she
so far respected it that her little son of three
years old was made to play at a safe distance
from her.

Fergus was a little fair child, grave and
thin. He loved ' Cordie ' better than any one
in the world, and made for her directly she
came in. Therese, his French nurse, was
constantly kind and devoted to him, as French
nurses usually are ; but she teased him, and
screamed at him, and never let him amuse
himself in his own way. Only Cordie understood
him  she allowed him to play with her
as he liked best ; she provoked the slow sweet
laughs that did not come if he were hurried or
frightened ; and she, who was a proverb for
being careless of what she said or did, was
unfailing in her tact and patience with the one
creature that at this time she really loved. It
was necessary that the boy should play quietly
when Colonel Ashby was there, so Cordeha
kept a private treasure of home-made toys in

lier pocket for him ; and it was a little store of
champagne corks, begged from the waiters
for his benefit, that, being one day untimely-brought
to light, earned for her the name of
Corks,' by which she was known to a limited,
but not very select, circle of young men, of
whom the Hon. George Kingdon was the
chief.

Mrs. Lichfield was clever with her needle,
and industrious too ; with help from Therese,
and the devotion of her forenoons, she kept her
own wardrobe in a high state of efficiency, considering
the small amount of help she had
from the leaders of the millinery profession 
for her husband had very narrow minded views
about bills. She was busy now with some
minor arrangement of frills and ribbon that
absorbed her a good deal. Colonel Ashby was
also understood to have his occupations, though
what they were was not very plain He was
not at all an early riser, and the care of his
person occupied much time ; he was often

VOL. I. E

heard to express great disgust at the uncivilised
habits of persons who could dress in less than
two hours. The hotel luncheon was quite
unsuited to his tastes ; he had only just left his
room, and was taking his dejeuner and reading
his letters.

Only Cordeha had nothing to do; she
dawdled listlessly into the room, thinking that
to be impertinent to Miss Greenley was but poor
sport, and yet there was no better to be had
till after dinner, when she was to act in a comic
charade with the Longford boys, the Pole, and
two American ladies who were staying at the
Hotel des Citrons. She wished her father
good-morning, without much attention to or
from him, cast a contemptuous glance at her
sister, that included her toilette, her work, and
her general character, in one concise depreciation,
and sat down on the floor to play with
her nephew.

Cannot you keep that child quiet,
Cordelia?'

Cordelia, shut that window ! Oh dear,
will you never learn to manage the bolt ? '

I will do it, papa,' said Mrs. Lichfield,
turning her head that way.

On no account, my dear ; do not rise.'

Colonel Ashby was always scrupulously
polite to his married daughter ; he was often
floridly complimentary to other ladies  only
to Cordeha was he ever rude or purposely disagreeable.
He closed the window sharply,
treading on and breaking some of Fergus's toys
as he went.

Naughty Colonel ! ' whispered the child 
he was not allowed to say ' Grandpa ; '
Colonel Ashby did not like it. Cordeha stifled
the remark and turned the boy's attention to
something else : the shielding of Fero was the
only domestic duty that she recognised.

Cordeha, get up ! Do not sprawl on the
floor like that ! '

This personal remark aroused her to the
perception that her father was seriously out of
E 2

LlbKAKt

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

temper, he so seldom noticed anything she did
or said. The sense of danger woke her courage
to meet it. She got up from the floor and seated
herself in one of the hot and dusty velvet
chairs with which the Hotel des Citrons furnished
its second-best rooms, and waited for
the storm.

How ungracefully you sit, and how heated
and unladylike you look. You never look like
a gentlewoman ; I wish you were more like
Sophy.'

Do you ! It would be very expensive to
look like Sophy  pins, you know, and little
things from the hairdresser, and real new gowns,
for even her old ones do not make me look
very like her ; if it were not that my waist is
inches and inches smaller I could not wear
them at all,' said Cordelia, affecting to look
critically at her gown. It was of pale blue
stuff, and suited its present wearer very well,
only it was a little short and tight, and
missed the silver buttons, lace, and manifold

etceteras that had helped it to adorn the fair
Sophy.

Cornea is getting really too uppish and
pert ; nothing I do for her satisfies her. I wish
you would consider that jlan for her, papa,' said
Mrs. Lichfield, who never entered into a war of
words with her sister, and seldom found faint
with her, but was stung now by the unkind
reference to her waist.

What plan ? Are we to go to Worthing ? '
asked Cordelia, pleasantly excited.

'Worthing? Who is to know what may
happen before Goodwood? What nonsense
you talk ! Goodwood, indeed, and Croton
Park hardly over ! ' The Colonel was pardonably
irritated, and drank his claret and pushed
his letters about before he spoke again.

A relative of your mother  a Miss Hooper,
in fact  writes to ask you to visit her.'

Aunt Susie ! Does she really ? To stay
with her ? Oh, how screaming jolly of her ! '
said Cordeha, springing to her feet.

You think so, dq you ? I wish you may
like it, on trial.'

I am sure to Hke Aunt Susie ; she loved
mamma, perhaps she will love me.' Cordelia
was quite off her balance ; she spoke excitedly,
and as her father seldom heard her. He
promptly checked her inclination to sentiment
by saying in his most supercilious manner, 

Doubtless she will love you. Old maids
usually require some outlet for their sympathies,
and I remember Miss Hooper as a person of
many superfluous emotions. One of them must
have dictated this letter, though it is not in itself
effusive. It will probably appear that her cat
is dead, or has escaped from her fond care, asher
pets have done before this.'

Will you show me her letter ? '

Certainly. I cannot recommend it as a
model of style ; it is a little dry.'

Miss Hooper presents her compliments to
Colonel Ashby. She will esteem it a favour

if he will allow his daughter Cordelia, her
great-niece, to pay her a visit of some duration.
Miss Hooper will be happy to receive Miss
Ashby at any time during the coming summer.'

Ivy Cottage, Maury.

How deliciously kind of her ! I call this
truly sweet. Fancy a whole summer in the
real country in England ! I suppose I may
go?'

You must ask your sister ; you are under
her charge, though your relative has not the
common politeness to refer to her. One must
not expect much savoir-vivre at Maybury ; your
very existence is a proof of that.'

Mrs. Lichfield kindly spoke without further
asking.

If we had not Cordeha we could afford to
stay a little in Paris after Aix-les-Bains ; it
would be a great gain to be without her at
Trouville this year, it is bad enough to be
obliged to take Fero.'

Hearing himself referred to in his mother's
dispassionate equal tones, Fero threw himself
across his aunt's knee and pensively kicked up
his legs. ' My darling ! If only I could take
you with me ! But I must go.' Then aloud,
Sophy's consent is of just the same consequence
as her care of me. We can live without each
other for a time. Anything must be better
than playing this eternal second-fiddle-out-of-
tune at every hot watering-place in France. I
should like best to go to board at the convent
at Brussels, but as I suppose I may not, I
should like to go to Aunt Susie.'

I do not know where you learnt to be
such an affectionate niece. It is very fine for
you to talk of visits here and visits there, but
you do not consider the expense to me. That
cad Horley, who makes such an intolerable fuss
about the shabby pittance he has to dole out,
stopped your going to the convent  far the
most reasonable place of tuition that could be
found for you, and it is not likely that he will

advance anything for your expenses in England,
though it is well known to be the most expensive
country in Europe.'

If there is only a shabby pittance, perhaps
he cannot,' said Cordelia, despondingly ; this
money difficulty in the way of her pleasures
she knew was never got over.

Did you suppose you were an heiress ?
Look here, a shabby hundred and fifty is all
that can be screwed out of Horley ; though
there is more, which he says he is keeping till
you come of age  the fool, as if it would be of
any use to me then ! He cannot be made to
see that capital is frequently advanced for the
education of a minor.'

I thought Mr. Horley wished me to have
a governess.'

A governess ! Eeally, Cordelia, you are
too childish. Can you understand this  your
expenses at this hotel, merely for your living, are
not less than fourteen pounds a month ; that is
at the rate of a hundred and six'iy- eight pounds

a year. If your income is only a hundred and
fifty, how do you suppose I am to provide
governesses  a hundred and seventy for hotel
expenses only, not to mention the daily, the
innumerable, calls on my purse for your other
requirements.' Colonel Ashby waved his hand
largely, as knowing how great these requirements
were. If he had not named them he
might have quenched Cordelia, who felt weak
in the presence of his arithmetic ; but she clearly
knew that her appointments were spare, rarely
new, and only obtained at the cost of a fierce
wrangle, and also that to have occasionally ' a
half-day donkey ' was the only personal luxury
she ever attained to. He pushed his worm
too far, and she turned.

I do not know about the cost of living  I
do not choose anything for myself; but I do
know that I am kept very close and shabby,
and have nothing nice as other girls have.
If I go to Aunt Susan I shall not cost fourteen
pounds a month.'

That is why I mean you to go there.
Your mother's friends ought to take their share.
I do not know what Miss Hooper's income maybe,
but in mere justice half of it shoukl be
mine ; she has no one dependent on her. You
are, even for your age, so singularly devoid of
tact that you are not Hkely to induce her to
leave you your  or rather my  rightful
share.'

I can ask her if you wish ; but I must go
there to do it, and I must have some decent
clothes to go in, and money to buy them.'

Xo more impertinence, if you please ; you
have entirely spoilt my enjoyment of my
breakfast, and seriously vexed me. I have
explained to you the state of my affairs as few
parents would condescend to do, and you
immediately propose to squander more money
in dress. Consult your sister about your
clothes, as you are pleased to call them, instead
of annoying me about trifles. If you have
any ladylike instincts they will tell you that

simplicity of attire best becomes a girl in the
schoolroom.'

That is just what I am not, and as I am
nearly eighteen the schoolroom must make
haste or it will not hold me, any more than
Sophy's gowns.'

Then Colonel Ashby swore at his younger
daughter, which she pretended she did not
mind, and he closed the discussion by going
out, leaving her to get over her excitement as
she could.

I wish you would not vex papa ; he will
be out of sorts all day,' said Mrs. Lichfield, ina
tone that Cordelia thought beneath the
gravity of the occasion.

Why should he not be vexed ? I wish I
could vex him, really, thoroughly  not a little
miff of a temper that he will get over by tomorrow,
but a good rousing up, so that he will
see that I am going to the dogs and do something
to stop it.'

Don't be silly, you are to go to this old lady ;

why can't you be content ? I will see about your
clothes. There is that white cashmere '

Sophy ! you are worse than papa  much
worse ; he is only selfish and wants to be let
alone and have no expense ; but you are a
thorough cat, always after some secret scheme
of your own. I know why you want to have
me done cheap and on the quiet this summer.
I know who is going to Trouville. Some day
you will wish you had let me go to school, or
have a governess, instead of leaving me with
nothing to do but to study you and your little
ways. When Duncan proposed that you should
stay with us at Wortliing this winter, he meant
it for kindness to me, and I shall not forget it.'

Nonsense ! Duncan has nothing to do with
it, and T do not suppose he ever thought of
you,' said ]Mrs. Lichfield, speaking lightly, but
quailing.

I shall write to Aunt Susan myself ; then
papa can say what he likes, and it won't matter,'
pronounced Cordeha.

CHAPTEE lY.

A DAMSEL ERRANT.

Night by night
He and his monstrous rout are heard to howl
Like stabled wolves, or tigers at their prey,
Doing abhorred rites to Hecate
In their obscured haunts of inmost bowers.
Yet have they many baits, and guileful spells,
To inveigle and invite th' unwary sense
Of them that pass unweeting by the way.

Milton.

Cordelia's letter was a work of time and
thought, during which there was a cessation
of hostilities, for, being less ready with her pen
than with her tongue, the trials of composition
subdued her for the moment.

Sophy, are there two nes in " affectionate " ? '
Yes  at least, I am not sure ; don't you
know that it is always written short ? '

I am not sure how to write it short, so I
have put it all as far as the n. I think there

must be two ; there are two in French, I
know.

Her letter finished, Cordeha sat by the
window gazing at the triangles of intense blue
sea that were visible between the roofs of the
neighbouring villas. Mrs. Lichfield thought
she was getting over her temper-storm quickly
as usual, and that she was herself showing
much tact by leaving her alone. But Cordelia
was like the lion of primitive natural history,
who has a claw at the end of his tail, and
when he wants to get into a rage he has only
to wag the tail vigorously, and the claw works
him up to the required pitch. Her claw,
which she was just now digging fiercely into
her sides, was the idea of her dead mother
of whom she thought so much and knew so
little, an idea always painfully excited by a
quarrel with her father.

She knew that her mother was beautiful,
because she was reproached for not being like
her, and she knew that her life had not been

happy, for who could be happy with Colonel
Ashby ; and then he spoke of her in terms of
indifference or contempt ; he plainly respected
more that first wife who had the courage to
show him how cheaply she held him, than, the
feebler and better woman who had weakly
allowed him to break her heart. Something of
the runaway match, and of the grieved and
insulted father, Cordelia had gleaned, she did
not know how. Of the moderate legacy left
to her at secondhand she heard more, for
Colonel Ashby never restrained his wrath on
account of any feelings his daughter might
have. Of Miss Hooper she knew but one
thing. Among the few things in her possession
that once belonged to her mother was a small
manual of prayers that had accompanied the
luckless Eosina in her flight ; there was written
in it, in a smaller and lighter edition of the
same hand that was seen in the letter in Cordelia's
lap, ' Eosina Stafford, from her loving
aunt Susie.'

On these words, Eosina's daughter  so poor
where her mother had been so rich  built
castles enough, whole romances of love and
forgiveness, reams of imaginary correspondence,
and thrilling scenes of reconciliation. Now
her heart swelled high  surely her castles had
not been built entirely in the air, for they were
founded on the old incorruptible stone of Love.
Aunt k5usie ' was living and loving still, those
stiff words of invitation proved it abundantly.
Then those prayers were good. Aunt Susie must
have wished her mother to be good  perhaps
knew about it and would teach her !

But this full heart was also a very sore one.
Colonel Ashby's taunts and scolding were
added to the old grievance of her mother's
trials and supposed wrongs. Mrs. Lichfield's indifference
and selfishness struck with fresh force
against Cordelia's vehement wishes and tumultuous
hopes ; while over all was the sharp, bitter
feeling that she was neglected and defrauded,
allowed, as she said, to go to the dogs. To this

VOL. I. F

store of explosives George Kingdon unwittingly
set a match.

How do you do, Mrs. Lichfield. Where
is the Colonel ? Has he gone to Monte Carlo ?
This is an off-day with me, and I hoped to find
him at home.'

Ah, Mr. Kingdon ! You are doubly welcome,
for we are dull this afternoon. My
father is going to dine with Count Morlaix,
and that is absolutely worse than Monte Carlo
he will be ruined, and without the music'

Let us hope he will ruin the Count. What
are you doing this evening ? '

The other Count and Major Spires are
coming to meet the Warrington and Mrs.
Marish here for tea, and a little loo, or a roll
of the ball. I would have asked you, but I
thought you would certainly be at Count
Morlaix's. Come ; though you are too lucky
at roulette.'

Only at yours, I do not win many of the
Blanc dollars. Hullo, Corks ! What's up ?

Hot face, red eyes, a dagger-and-bowl expression,
an ink-smudge on your nose! You don't
mean to say that some one has been rash enough
to try to teach you to write ! It has been
hard times for that poor chap, I know.'

Cordeha's chin went up, but she did not
speak.

Do not tease her, Mr. Kingdon ; she has
been a little disturbed this afternoon. A relation
of hers has asked her for a visit, and this
impetuous child wanted to be off at once, without
consideration of ways and means, while my
father saw that there was much to consider.
We do not care to part with her for an indefinite
time, and, besides, are not quite sure that these
relatives are desirable people for her to be very
intimate with ; I fancy my father chose the
flower of the family. You see we treat you asa
friend, Mr. Kingdon, and lay open our little
discussion to you.'

Cordelia rose up in her wrath and blazed
upon them. ' Have you done, Sophy ? Would

F 2

you like to say any more to George, who knows
us all quite well enough to understand ? I will
tell him. George, the little discussion was a
furious quarrel. Papa is in a diabolical temper,
and so am I ; we have said the most atrocious
things to each other ; he was the worst, because
I was afraid to say all the things I thought of,
so I have said them to Sophy, who always keeps
her temper at the expense of other people's.
They both want to get rid of me  Papa for
cheapness, only it goes against him to please me
and my aunt too ; and Sophy wants me to goat
any price  well, for reasons of her own ;
and both of them grudge the money to fit me
out respectably  so there ! '

Come, come, draw it mild ; you must take
it easier than this,' said George, feebly. He
was going to say ' old girl,' but felt that Cordelia
was at too high a strain for that choice epithet
to please her ; and ' Corks ' being open to the
same objection, his appeal fell rather flat for
want of a personal address.

'Don't be silly, Cordie,' said Sophy, with
mild gravity. ' The money is a very secondary
consideration, though it is not always easy to
find it exactly when it is wanted, and Papa likes
to give it spontaneously rather than to be asked
for it. You must disguise yourself, and try to
win a fortune at Monte Carlo ; must she not,
Mr. Kingdon ? ' she finished playfully, as one
who would jest and turn to other matters.

Very well ; you have said it, and I will go,'
said Cordeha, in accents of passionate despair,
rushing out of the room.

Poor little Cordie ! she is quite upset ;
please excuse her, Mr. Kingdon ; it is not often
she is so uncontrolled, though she is always a
little difficult to manage. Xow sit down, I
have not seen you for so long ; have you any
news, or the least little titbit of scandal even ?
You hear everything.

George sat down near the window, but he
found that he could not command the terrace,
and presently he forgot to look out, and gave

himself up to the enjoyment of a quiet half-hour
with pretty Mrs. Lichfield, who knew so well
how to make it pass agreeably. At the end of
it he asked, ' Do you know where your sister
is?'

No ; she went away in a pet, poor child,
fancying we teased her. I dare say she is upstairs,
playing with my little Turk.'

I rather think she went out. Is it possible
that she has fulfilled her threat, and gone to
Monte Carlo ? '

Oh, no ! surely not ! She could never be
so very naughty.'

She looked rather hot, you know ; and
when my friend Corks threatens a thing it is
not fear that keeps her off it.'

But this would be outrageous. Perhaps
she is at Eumpelmayer's ; she is so fond of sweet
things, tiresome girl.'

Mrs. Lichfield sent upstairs to ask for Miss
Ashby. She had gone out in haste, half an
hour before, reported Therese.

I am a little uneasy, 'Mis. Lichfield ; may
I go and look for her ? Had she any money ? '

Xo. Stay  yes, twenty francs ; Papa gave
it to her yesterday for some boots, and I know
she has not spent it.'

'Well, I will ask at Eurapelmayer's, and
look about the gardens. If I do not see her I
will hop over yonder ; it can do no harm, and if
she has been so lively as to go I will take care
of her. Say nothing to the Colonel.'

Mr. Kingdon did not trouble himself to goto
the confectioner's, nor even to the promenade,
but went direct to the station. A word
with an official confirmed his belief that Cordelia
had carried out her threat, and he presently
followed her, grumbling to himself for the first
time at the miscellaneous company carried by
the afternoon train to Monte Carlo.

Of much less mixed character, tending to
pure badness, was the assortment of people who
arrived from Nice and overtook Mr. Kingdon
as, after a search in the gardens, hoping that

Cordelia might have lacked courage to go
farther, he entered the Casino. He knew that
most of them were worse than they looked, and
that even the most wilful oriel of Cordelia's kind
would be quite unable to appreciate them. He
went through the hall, the reading-room, the
theatre, all the loitering places, unsuccessfully,
but in the first gaming-room, in the thick of
that unholy fight, at one of the roulette tables,
was Cordelia Asljby, sitting between an old
Eussian gentleman and one of the croupiers.
Her eyes and her cheeks burned with the excitement
of the afternoon, and from the hot and
nauseous atmosphere of the crowded gas-lit
rooms. In spite of the eagerness with which
she was pursuing her end, she was playing with
the utmost gravity and propriety, with full
knowledge of what she was about, so that she
was attracting very little attention from the
players about the table, and it was past the hour
for moralising sightseers. George judged it
better to leave her alone for the present, for she

did not look as if she should be amenable to any
hint from him.

The gambler's fever was too strong in this
young man to allow him to be a quiet watcher.
Standing a little beyond Cordelia on the same
side of the table, where he could give an occasional
look to her, he began to play on his own
account. At first he staked as she did, half
with the gambler's superstition that such a
player must win, and half in curiosity, to see if
she won or lost. The crowd increasing, he
could not always see what she did, and he used
his own judgment in the intervals ; then an
unusual run of the numbers attracted his attention,
for he knew not how long ; when he next
looked for her she was gone.

Cordelia's start in life was made with a
piece of twenty francs. As she dashed out of
the hotel, she calculated that this would give
her four chances at one of the ' silver tables ' ;
but the disadvantage of going through the world
in a passion was brought home to her at the

station, where she must break into her first five
francs for her fare. She was known at the
Casino, where she had often been with her
sister, and, being tall enough to be by courtesy
twenty-one, she passed into the gaming-rooms
with the fatal facility extended to all who are
likely to hesitate for want of it. The evening
trains had not yet come in, and there was no
great crowd about the tables when she went in,
and she soon slipped into a seat, as being at the
moment a refuge from the more conspicuous
position of standing behind the chairs. The
croupier saw that this girl with the three big
silver coins for her capital was probably a runaway,
and he kept his eye on her and made her
first transactions easy. Many games for half-francs
and coppers in the private rooms of
the hotel had made her quite familiar with the
board, and she had also been frequently in the
rooms and watched the players, though she had
not been allowed to play herself. Thus she
was not particularly nervous, and quietly made

her stakes on some of the even chances, losing
her first venture, winning the second and third,
and losing again the fourth. Then she waited
for two turns and began again, winning on the
whole until she got some gold pieces ; with
these she played more boldly, and with varying
fortune, never quite coming up to the standard
of the two hundred francs which she had set
herself to win, and several times sinking within
her original capital. Once she lost it all, and
was on the point of getting up when the old
Eussian, her neighbour, who had also been
watching her, said carelessly in English, ' You
have not the small money. Take then  take,'
and pushed two five-franc pieces towards her.
With a great increase of heart-beating on finding
that she was observed, she took them
and staked them separately, losing the first and
winning with the second. She tinned hot and
cold with fright over the last, remembering
that if she lost she could not pay, and this was
not like a party of penny roulette among

friends ; but she won, paid her debt, took
breath, and went on again with fresh courage,
or rather fresh excitement.

It was just then that George Kingdon came
in and saw her. Time flies fast on darkest
vans over those tables ; the crowd grew thick
about them, and many honest people who were
only touching pitch with one finger, when they
saw Cordelia's glowing face watching the
hopping ball, said, ' That is quite a girl ; what a
shame to let her sit there with all that scum
about her ! Has she no friends ? Well, perhaps
she is as bad as the others,'  and so on. The
scum ' had their word with the rest. ' These
English, they would be so proper, and they
allow 2i jeune per Sonne to do thus.' There were
some also who said, ' By Jove ! this is coming
it rather strong. Where is the Sophy ? ' and
Old Greeley Ashby is getting the filly in
training early.' Cordelia only knew that the
oppression of so many people standing round
her and leaning over her chair was becoming

intolerable. She began to stake rather wildly,
and one lucky choice of numbers bringing her
gains up to the ten gold pieces that she wanted,
she slipped them into her glove, put down the
surplus at random, won again, and got up, her
head swimming. ' Ah, miss ! go not now when
your chance begins,' whispered the Eussian.

'No, I have enough; good night,' she
returned, as she struggled out of the crowd,
leaving her neighbour to a profound amazement.


CHAPTEE V.

BY MOONLIGHT.

where he
Shall I inform my unacquainted feet
In the blind mazes of this tangled wood ?

Milton.

When Cordelia came out of the Casino, the
gleaming uncertain lights, the number of people
passing up and down the steps, and the carriages
with shouting drivers giving cracks like pistol-shots
to their whips, bewildered her a little, and
the first breath of the fresh night air made her
giddy ; but she ran down through the moonlit
gardens to the station, where the full waiting-room
and the aspect of the throng thoroughly
frightened her, and for the first time ! What
horrible people ! How dreadful to be alone
among them ! They are all looking at her, and
dreadful thought !  what shall she do when

the train comes ? A man spoke to her, another
laughed in her face and completed her dismay.
Looking helplessly round, she saw a French
couple, of not very distinguished people, who
were staying at the Hotel des Citrons ; she
hardly was acquainted with them, and had
chiefly noticed them to make a mock of their
oddities ; but now she thought a familiar face
must needs be a friendly one, and going up to
Madame Gar von, she asked if she would be so
good as to allow her to go back to Mentone
with her. The Frenchwoman made an indescribable
movement of aversion and contempt,
and screeched loudly, ' Impossible, Mademoiselle
 impossible ! Si vous trouvez a Hotel

que je ne suis bon que pour' rire, ici ' But

her scornful laugh and gesture were enough ;
Cordelia turned and fled out of the station,
along the road, up the hill, as fast as anger and
fear would carry her.

She was hardly out of sight, and the
laughter that pursued her had scarcely died

away, when George Kingdon came into the
station and looked round for her. He too saw
Madame Garon, and, in despair, asked her if
she had seen Miss Ashby. She flatly denied
it, though she was still shaking with the excitement
and triumph of her successful snub to
her English foe. ' It was, then, with Monsieur
that the demoiselle had come  not alone, as she
had been told ! ' Between vexation at himself
for having named Cordelia, and wrath at the
cold-blooded Frenchwoman and her malicious
looks, George swore aloud, which pleased her
much, for though she had often read of the
English ' big, big D,' it had never reached her
ears before. He was leaving the station to
seek once more at the Casino, when Madame's
little husband, a person of no consideration,
yet apparently not without human kindness,
touched his arm and whispered that Mademoiselle,
his sister, had set off on the Mentone
road, ' bien vite ! '

Without staying to bless after his banning,

and furiously angry with all the world, Mr.
Kingdon followed Cordelia on the way pointed
out to him, the carriage road to Mentone. The
coolness and comparative silence when he had
passed the first villas calmed him a little. It
is not very easy, even for a strong person, such
as he was not, to keep up a good hot rage and
to walk fast uphill at the same time ; presently,
too, he saw Cordelia skimming along before
him, and the near success of his pursuit helped
to bring him to a passable state of mind. How
fast she had gone ! She could not have had
more than three minutes' start of him, and she
was already far up the winding road that leads
away from the Eden-ike valley, where the
coiled glittering snake lies at the bottom. The
moon lighted the whole semicircle of mountain
cliffs and garden slopes ; the trees cast deep
shadows here and there across the white road,
and Cordelia passed quickly through * ebon
and ivory.' At last she stood to gather breath
under a great carob-tree, thinking she should

VOL. I. G

be hidden in the blackness of the shadow ; but
her gown being of some very pale and shining
blue stuff, she only carried a streak of moonlight
into the shade of the dense old tree. She
took off her hat, and looked about her, chiefly
over the sea, as people naturally do when it is insight
 seeking the infinite, perhaps. She did
not notice George, who, for his part, harmonised
well enough with the shadow. The moonlight
touched the oves on Cap St. Martin, but left
the fir-trees black; the little waves washed
white against the rocks ; the bay was smooth,
and dark with a soft and living darkness, and
beyond it the open sea spread wide in a shining
plain. A few red sparks and a deeper dusk
showed where old Eoccabruna holds aloof on
her pinnacle from the sparkling new world at
her feet ; the woods crept up the hill-sides like
the waves of another sea ; Turbid, like a dead
queen, lay on her lofty couch ; and, above all,
the mountains rose calm and high, their tenderest
dusk just touched with softest light.

Cordelia, cooling her glowing cheeks in the
soft wind, looked wistfully round on all this
beauty, not ignoring it so much as deferring
her joy in it. ' It is lovely,' she thought.
Some day, when I am very good, I shall care
more for it, I suppose, and want nothing more
to make me glad. Now I only long for something
that is not here.'

Do you mean to walk home. Miss Ashby ? '
Oh, George ! did you come after me ? '
I think so, rather ! What are we to do ?
Will you turn back with me and see if we can
get a carriage ? '

Xo ; nothing shall induce me to go down
there again  ever again. I must walk back ;
I am afraid it will be a long way for you.
Your voice sounds as if you were in a jolly
good rage with me ; and yet, I suppose, you
mean to see me home.'

It is three miles from here to the Hotel
des Citrons. Walking will be the best now, as
we have come so far, if you are up to it.'

G 2

I am quite up to it  and about the

rage ?

It is a good sizeable one, I assure you,
my young friend ; but it is not all for you, and
I am not going to scold you now. Come, we
must step out.'

They walked together in silence at a good
steady tramp. When they met any one or were
overtaken by carriages returning from Monte
Carlo, and, above all, when they came to the
dark places of which dark stories are told,
where the olives close over the road with
fantastic, uncertain shadows that seem to move
though there is no wind to stir the trees, then
she is glad of her companion and walks nearer
to him. For his part he does not mind the
shadows, but cares a good deal about the carriages.
Cordeha has such a noticeable figure,
and this moonlight is so clear ! He does not
as a rule care much for the opinion of people
in general, and this unwonted exception is telling
the more upon him.

How much have you Avon ? ' he asks
sharply.

I do not quite know. I have it here ; I
can count. Two hundred and eighty-five
francs.'

Will that be enough for your gowns ? '

Yes, I think so '  in a very small voice.

I hope they will wear well. I know
women think all the world of their clothes ;
but I did not think you would have run such
a rig as this for a Httle finery. What will you
do when you are thirty, and dress begins to
matter to your looks, if you go such lengths
for it now when you do not want it ? '

'It was not that, George. You do not
understand. It was because I was mad with
Papa and wanted to spite Sophy  they ought
to have given me the money ! '

Oh ! I am glad you have such praiseworthy
reasons. I hope you are satisfied now.
You have put your foot in it deeper than you
seem to appreciate.'

I was dreadfully frightened.'

I am very glad to hear it.'

As they came into the western bay of
Mentone, the silence of the hotels and pensions
all so decorously shut up and with hardly a
light to be seen was rather appalling ; it gave
such a dead-of-night feeling, though it was not
yet eleven o'clock.

Will the " Citrons " be open, or shall we
have to rouse the house and call the landlord
out of bed ? ' asked George, gloomily.

The Colonel is out to-night ; he is always
very late at Count Morlaix's. Max will be up ;
but I am afraid the door will be locked. Some
of Sophy's people may be still in our salon'

Then I shall have a word with her. Will
she be in a great worry about you ? '

'She will be disappointed that I am not
gone altogether. Papa would not miss me for
at least a week, and when he noticed I was
gone he would say it was just like my want of
savoir-vivre'

Poor old Corks ! '

Don't, George ! '

Max let them in discreetly. Max was the
head-waiter of the Hotel des Citrons, an unfortunate
with such a white face, set off by such
very black eyes and hair, that he suggested a
snow man finished off with soot. Fortunately
he had so wide an experience of the queer
ways of ' les strangers ' that nothing could well
surprise him.

On the first landing, George said, ' You had
better go upstairs at once. I will tell your
sister you have come in. Good-night, and
don't do it again.'

Cordelia began to thank him, but suddenly
burst into tears, and ran off towards her lofty
abode without another word. In Mrs. Lichfield's
salon George found three ladies, seven
gentlemen, and a good many bottles. He declined
a seat at the table where one of the
party was holding a roulette-table for the rest,
and going to the refreshment tray filled for

himself a sparkling bowl, while Mrs. Lichfield
came airily up to him.

Well, did you find that naughty child ?
I am afraid you have had a great deal of
trouble.'

He felt that love had indeed grown cold ashe
answered in a low voice and a tone of
infinite contempt 

I found your young sister sitting in the
gambling-hell down yonder by herself, playing
at one of the tables, among a lot of the delectable
people that are to be seen there of an
evening  you know the sort, Mrs. Lichfield,
though she does not. It will be all over Mentone
tomorrow before breakfast. There are
not many who know as I do that it is no fault
of her own that she runs wild and uncared for,
and has the chance of such doings as this. I
warn you that I will not hear her blamed
without saying what I know to excuse her.
No, I can't say what you are to do about it ' 
in answer to an eloquent little gesture. ' Now

you had better send the poor child some supper ;
she has eaten nothing since luncheon.'

Mr. Kingdon went away, leaving Mrs. Lichfield
disturbed enough at last ; but Cordelia
got no supper, and sobbed herself to sleep
alone.

CHAPTEE VI.

SURVEYING THE GROUND.

. . Glancing all at once as keenly at her,
As careful robins eye the delver's toil.

Tennyson.

'Dearest Aunt Susie,  Thanks tremendously
for asking me to stay with you, and I am coming
in spite of everything. I do not know when,
for it is a long way, and it is not certain if we
go to Aix-les-Bains. They won't let me travel
by myself for the look of the thing ; but I am
coming. I suppose the Colonel will write to
you ; and I am out of my wits with joy.
Receive my respectful compliments.

Your most affectionate niece,

'Cordelia Ashby.'

Colonel Ashby presents his compliments
to Miss Hooper ; he is happy to accede to her

request that his younger daughter should visit
her. Miss Ashby will arrive at May bury so
soon as a fitting escort can be arranged for her.'

Humph ! ' said Miss Hooper, comparing
these notes. ' They should be shaken in a bag
to make one good, honest letter between them.
Plenty of compliments ! Where has that child
learnt to say " Aunt Susie," I wonder. She
must come up in the omnibus, fitting escort and
all, if they give me no more notice than this.'

Accordingly, one afternoon, at the end of
May, the omnibus deposited at the gate of Ivy
Cottage a tall young woman in a tumbled
gown and the before mentioned rush hat. She
carried a large fan, but had no other travelling
baggage. She bestowed a rapturous hug on
Miss Hooper, who was not accustomed to be
kissed, and did not like the practice.

My dear, you are very welcome. If we
had known you were coming, a servant should
have met you with a carriage.'

When Miss Hooper said 'we' she meant
herself and her maids, of whom she had five :
a thin and aged waiting worn an,  no one ever
called French a lady's-maid  a stout and aged
cook, and . a housemaid not much more than
middle-aged. These three were the nominal
strength of the establishment, but Cook was too
old for much work, so her niece waited on her
and did anything that required exertion ; while
Mrs. French, whose sight was impaired, had a
young cousin to perform the same good offices
for her.

Dearest dear Aunt Susie, how perfectly
lovely it is to come here ! '

Are you alone, my dear ? And your
luggage?'

My portmanteau got itself lost at the
junction. I told all the railway people to send
it on, or it would be curious for them. Yes, I
am alone ; the Colonel does not do escort
duty. Sophy is too yellow to be seen after her
passage ; and as to These, she thinks she is

dead, and has not turned up in so good a place
as she had reason to expect. She is a Men-tones,
you know, and the Charing Cross Hotel
is not exactly her notion of Paradise. I think
this is mine. How dear of you to let me
come ! ' Cordelia took in the chief beauties of
Ivy Cottage in one admiring glance, and gave
a long sniff at the sweet soft English air.

I am glad to see you, my dear ; I hope
we shall make you happy. When did you
cross ? '

Yesterday, in time for the Epsom week.
Papa was full of dark engagements for to-day,
so I hopped off early  sans adieu.'

Did not your father see you off? '

Oh, no. He will say it showed more tact
than he thought me capable of to spare him
the fuss of leave-taking.'

We had better have some tea. Then you
can write to announce your safe arrival.'

It will be of no use to write. They are
going into lodgings, and I do not know where,'

said Cordelia, placidly, as they passed into the
house.

Next day there was discussion on the subject
of Cordelia at Wastell Warren. Mayne
Wastell, the master of the house, said to his
step-mother, the head of the family, ' Aunt
Susan has caught a Tartar.'

Oh, has she come ! ' said Mrs. Wastell.

Have you seen her ? ' asked Lettice, sole
daughter of that house, and the second Mis.
Wastell's only child.

I looked in at Ivy Cottage this morning on
my way from the Board, and found Aunt Susan
quite off her balance, not sure if she should
laugh, or cry, or be very angry. I advised the
first, as soonest mended, and set her a good
example when I heard that this young hussy
had actually run away from her parent to come
here, and arrived with only the clothes she stood
up in  queer ones they are. It seems that
running away is a vice that goes in the family.
She turned up unexpectedly yesterday, and the

old maids are all in a twitter about the want
of notice, and there is a complication, it seems,
about the spare-room carpet. Aunt Susan is
furious with the father, who appears scarcely
to be a joy to his friends, and has neglected
this poor girl till her great wish has been to
get away from him.'

I can quite believe that. But any kind of
running away is a serious matter. I do not
wonder that Aunt Susan is alarmed,' said Mrs.
Wastell.

Then she has never stayed in a private
house before, certainly not in one like Aunt
Susan's. Fancy her making little casual remarks
when Aunt Susan read the Bible to the maids,
and saying she thought the wise virgins a selfish
lot  much as if she had never heard of them
before. Then, instead of coming down to
breakfast this morning, she sent for coffee
upstairs.'

What bad manners ! I am afraid she is
not at all nice,' said Lettice.

I do not say that. In spite of the consternation
produced by a call for coffee in that
tea-drinking household, and the " putting out "
of the old maids, I saw that this young woman
had walked straight into Aunt Susan's heart.
Lettice will be nowhere. She is like the hen
with the ducklings  proud, but puzzled. I was
laughing at her when this Cordelia came in.'

What is she like ? ' asked Lettice with
curiosity, and her mother with fear.

A very fine young woman, tall and well
set up, with a handsome face and a child's
expression, good eyes and chin  I do not know
about her nose  curly dark hair all in a fiizz.'

What will Aunt Susan say to a fuzz ? '
said Lettice, who had a brown and shining
tete (boileau.

'Perhaps it may be mitigated, but only
shaving her head will work quite a cure. The
funny thing is that she is like Aunt Susan
herself.'

She does not seem to be like her mother,'

said Mrs. Wastell, with the yearning sigh that
always came with her mention of Eosina. Her
stepson noticed the sigh, and wondered at the
store of affection that had been lavished on this
unsatisfactory Eosina.

She is like Aunt Susan ; she has the same
bright eyes and understanding look, and holds
her head up in the same way.'

Is she fafet and slangy ? ' asked Lettice,
anxiously.

Well, perhaps  not exactly. You will say
so ; but I should not call her slangy myself,
though she talks all the slang I ever heard of.
Aunt Susan does not understand half she says ;
but she has a nice way, a little friendly manner ,
like a nice child.'

We must have her here  don't you think
so, mother?  and try to do her good,' sail
Lettice.

Yes, it will help Aunt Susan, perhaps ; I
do not think Mayne will object, as he seems to
be following the aunt's lead. I am bound to

VOL. I. H

do something for this girl  she is my cousin,
and my dearest friend's child.'

Mrs. Wast el made an early call on Miss
Hooper, in her full district equipment of grey
shawl, bundle and tin pail. Aunt Susan was in
her garden, making her slow progress among her
flower beds ; she was flourishing her stick about
and poking at any small weed that had got its
unauthorised head above ground during the
night, for she leant on a strong and willing arm ;
she was admiring the flowers, and Cordelia was
admiring her. As even the back view of a pair
of lovers, though walking on opposite sides of
the path, will subtly but certainly proclaim their
lovership, so did the aspect of Aunt Susan and
her great-niece, even from the garden gate,
advise Krs. Wastell that they were knit together
already in a close bond of affection.

Here is the milkman,' said Cordelia.

After a little mutual * taking stock ' as the
three gossiped together, Mrs. Wastell, to gain
a little conversation, and to see if the newcomer

had any airs, asked Cordelia to carry
the tin pail as far as the almshouses. She was
perfectly ready both to carry the pail and to
conduct the conversation.

I never heard of you till I came here ; I
did not know mamma had any cousins. I only
knew of Aunt Susan.'

Yet I loved your mother very much, and
was her closest friend. I knew your father a
little too; perhaps he does not like to speak
much of your mother.'

'Very likely not, if he were nasty to her.'

I did not mean that ; I thought he might
still feel the sorrow of her early death.'

Not he ! Sometimes he slants me for being
like her, or not like her, as it may happen.
Fancy the Colonel with a secret grief ! '

Was he willing for you to come here ? '

We had a tremendous shindy about it ; but
I think he did not mind getting rid of me for a
time, and, as I was death on it, it had to be.'

My dear ! '

There, I have said something again ! I am
awfully sorry, for Aunt Susan does not like it ;
and she is such a scrumptious old dear, I do not
seem to care about riling hers' said Cordelia,
looking full of compunction.

The slang of the rising generation is always
a trial to the one in possession ; and you must
remember that, as Aunt Susan is two generations
older than you are, it is doubly distressing to
her. I wonder what were the forbidden expressions
of her day ; there must have been plenty,
for they seem to be a natural outcome of youth.
The difference is that young people used to be
obliged to restrain themselves, and now they
have greater liberty of speech. We cannot
imagine slang under the " nips and bobs " of
poor Lady Jane's time, can we ? '

I do not know. I have always talked as I
liked, except at school, in French.'

I suppose you have left school now for
good, as school-girls say ? '

I do not mean to go again, unless it is to

Brussels. I have been to so many schools, day
schools chiefly, in France and England  cheap
ones. I have learnt exactly nothing, except at
the convent in Brussels  the soeurs there were
first-rate, and one of them was Good.' Cordeha
could always pronounce a capital.

More than one, I hope. That was the place
from which you were removed because Mr. Harley
objected to a Romanist education for you ? '

Yes. How droll that you should know
about me, when I knew nothing of you  don't
I wish I had ! That old boy did not know that
the convent suited me down to the ground, and
that I never learnt any religion at all.'

I hope you learnt some of the right sort ? '

Do you care about it, really ? How odd !
So does Aunt Susie. Xo, I learnt none. I amas
ignorant as a hobgoblin, and as bad as I know
how to be ; and not on purpose, I am afraid it
is nature. My work will be cut out when I
set about being good, and it is time I began.
Is your daughter good  the real sort ? '

Indeed, I trust so. Yes, Lettice is a very
good girl.'

Perhaps she can teach me ; so few people
seem to know. Aunt Susie is good, but I could
not learn of her. I saw some one yesterday
who looked as if he knew, and was like Soeur
Lucie. It was the parson, the tall one ; he was
talking to a man in the lane, and I was sitting
in the tree that leans over from Aunt Susan's
garden.'

The vicar, Mr. Odiarne. He is one of the
best men I know.'

I was sure of it ! They do not have just
that look unless they are of the best sort.'

The oddest girl I ever saw ; and I like
her,' was Mrs. Wastell's report to her daughter
and stepson ; and she said very Httle more.

Lettice Wastell was more direct when she
interviewed her cousin ; she had fewer feelings
on the subject, clearer views, and a more distinct
object ; youth has also fewer scruples, less
experience of a daunting kind, and so fewer

fears. Lettice meant to civilise, cultivate, and
convert. ' How shall you employ yourself
here ? ' she asked of Cordelia, a little later.

The strawberries will not last for ever, I
suppose,' said Cordeha, inspecting her red
thumbs ; ' but there are good things coming on
currants and raspberries, plums and pears,
beside the peaches. The worst of plums and
peaches is that you can gather faster than you
can eat them ; now strawberries take longer
to gather than to eat, so you can always be
going on.'

You greedy thing ! Aunt Susan's garden
brings every one to that ; Mayne calls everyday
in fig time. But are you not going to do
something serious ?  there is so much time here,
and you are to make a good long visit, Aunt
Susan says. I am so glad, for we shall have
time to be really friends.'

I am not very chummy with girls ; they
are always after something, and cannot let you
rub along in peace. They do not often want

to be friends with me ; but if you do, I'll be on.
I dare say we shall scratch on somehow.'

Lettice, having come down from the Warren
carrying the precious boon of her friendship in
her hand to offer to this forlorn one, was hardly
gratified ; but she was perfectly patient, used to
small discouragements, and trained to hide her
passing feelings of annoyance. ' We will try.
I am rather jealous of you to begin with ; I
used to be Aunt Susan's first favourite, and you
have cut me out in a fortnight.'

She thinks some pumpkins of you. She is
very good to me ; but I do not know  I do not
quite suit her, I am afraid ; she is always looking
at me through her spectacles as if I were the
queerest lot. Am 1 so awfully rum, do you
think ? '

Lettice laughed heartily, ' Yes, rather. You
have not been brought up like our Outshine
girls, and Aunt Susan does not see more than
one kind.'

My kind is not quite right for her ; perhaps

because I have been kept down, not brought
up,' said Cordelia, deplorably.

We might read something together,' suggested
Lettice, seizing her opportunity.

I do not like reading ; there are so few
nice books. I en n not get on with stories, for
thinking what fools the people all are, and what
a fuss they make about nothing. I suppose no
one reads the other sort of books, except the
fogies who really like wdiat is stupid.'

Oh, yes. Books that are not stories are
the nicest, and you would like them best. It
would be interesting for us to read the same
books and talk about them.'

What kind of books ? '

I have been reading Grote's " History of
Greece," and MahafTy's books with it, and
Worsley's "Iliad and Odyssey." We have
Corvinus " in the library-box ; if you like we
might read some Shakespeare.'

'We read Shakespeare at one of my
schools. I do not think Mrs. Wastell would like

you to read his book ; he uses so many bad
words  downright swearing.'

Perhaps you like something more modern,
Mrs. Somerville's Life," or " The Voyage of
the Challenger " ? '

See here, Lettice ; this won't do at all, I
shall never rise to this, I know. You will have
to drop me.'

I cannot drop you, even if I wished,
because you are my cousin. There are plenty of
nice things we can do together besides reading.'

Why should I do anything ? it is very nice to
loaf round here, and talk to anyone that comes.'

But do you not wish to be useful to people,
to make your life of value to others ? '

Not in the least. Do you ? '

I try,' said Lettice, modestly. ' Of course
I know the world will go round without me,
but I try to be of all the use in it I can.'

That must make you a great nuisance to
people, or it would if you were old and  not
nice. What do you do ? '

I manage the Uplands Sunday School, and
go very often to the day school ; I help the
mistress and the pupil-teacher with their work.
Then I have the penny bank and clothing club
for the Uplands district ; and I read with the
younger servants, and go to the night-school
sometimes, if Mayne goes. We have to help
with things in Maybury, and as some of the
property is in other parishes, there is always
something on hand that we are expected to do.
I have only been a year and a half without a
governess, and my mother makes it my duty to
read French and German  though I care for
neither  and music is a duty, too, you know,
in my position.'

Good gracious I Do you do all this
because it is right, and part of being good ; or
because you like it ? '

It is not very easy to say, though of course
I ask myself the reasons and motives of my
work sometimes. It is part of my life ; I have
grown into it, and . could hardly do otherwise.
Some things I like very much, and others not at

all ; I hope I go through with the disagreeable
part because it is right.'

I suppose it is very horrid to be good at
all?'

'Oh no ! There is no other peace and
satisfaction. Indeed, indeed, you must believe
us when we say that. It is so hard to make
people believe it, people who never think of
doubting anything else we say. You may be
sure of it, Cordie ! ' said Lettice, eagerly, thinking
she saw an opening, and rising at once to
the difficulties of her task.

But if it is not horrid, and you only do it to
feel jolly and set up with yourself, I do not see
any goodness in it. You only do what you like,
the same as the others,' Cordelia replied, with
an air of deep disappointment. Before Lettice
could marshal her arguments to meet her, she
changed front, began to whistle the last air she
had heard over the garden wall, and could not
be brought to listen to any more moralising.

CHAPTEE VII.

VARIED OUTLOOKS.

Health is the first good lent to men :
A gentle disposition then :
Next, to be rich by no by-ways ;
Lastly, with friends t' enjoy our days.

R. Hei-rick.

Cordelia was quickly at home with her new
friends, so far as outward things went. She
pervaded the garden at Ivy Cottage, and
gossiped with the gardener and the maids.
She took long solitary walks at all hours, which
made Aunt Susan rather uneasy, until she
recognised that something of the kind was
necessary to work off her great-niece's spare
energy. She sat a good deal in a tree that
hung over the garden wall towards the road,
and studied human nature from that novel
outlook; but her chief playground, as well
as school, was at the Warren, where Mrs. Wastell

allowed her to come and go as she pleased,
making her as one of the family.

The long shining sinner days favoured
this kind of life, and the girl learnt much.
Those around her hardly guessed how much
she had to learn, or how strange the even
tenor of this English country life was, to one
who knew nothing but watering-places, health
resorts, and the people whose pleasure was
their business. For reasons. Colonel Ashby
never took this daughter with him on autumn
visits to the sporting country houses where he
was still received; and for reasons, different
ones, Mrs. Lichfield never accepted for her
sister sundry invitations to the very decorous
and strait-laced houses of her husband's kindred ;
thus Cordelia regarded society from the hotel
and lodging-house point of view, and had no
key to the ways of such people as the Wastels.
Aunt Susie was like an old lady in a book 
only nicer, she thought ; but for the Warren
she had no standard.

The Wastels appeared to be rich  they had
a large house in a small park, a butler, and
many maids ; two or three carriages, and horses
to match, a liberal housekeeping, and no
grumbling on money matters  and yet simple
dress, that Mrs. Lichfield would have thought
unbearable, old-fashioned furniture, plain food,
no kind of display or extravagance, and a
perfect indifference to comparison with their
neighbours, or the opinion of outsiders ; these
things seemed contradictory. Then they were
all so busy  they rose early, and worked hard
at what they had in hand. Mrs. Wastell was
often quite tired with her round of poor people
and general benevolence, housekeeping, and
letter-writing. Lettice chose her own occupations
; yet she practised diligently, read German,
and was busy with the works of which she had
told Cordelia ; she never dreamt of novels,
tennis, riding, or visiting, till the afternoon, and
then only in due subservience to things more
important.

Mr. Wastell was still more perplexing.
Many people who think it wrong for women
and elderly persons to live for their own
pleasure and amusement, make exception in
the case of young men, grant them a liberty
denied to their daughters, and, provided they
have money enough to live on without their
personal earnings, think it consistent with the
right order of things that they should exist,
not always beautifully, for their own delight.
This slackness is a social mistake, for it takes
much good breeding, as well as much money,
to idle gracefully, while it is not at all difficult
to work like a gentleman ; a point which
young men with more gold than gentle blood
would do well to consider. Mr. Wastell's
case was different, for he came of a family
that had lived in honour as squires on the
same property for five or six generations,
and had usually followed some profession in
their youth. For all Cordeha could see, there
was no reason why he should not spend his

time as her father and his friends did ; she
knew they would think him a muff for not
doing so, and she was a Httle inclined to be of
their opinion at first.

But it was not for nothing that this girl
came of the nearly extinct Hooper, and of
common ancestors with Aunt Susan. Her
native wit supplied her lack of experience, and
people even more young and foolish than herself
could not have taken Mayne Wastell's pleasant
brown face for that of a muff or any other
description of fool, though his expression was
more thoughtful than quick, and his neat, well-developed
figure showed more energy than his
face. He kept his body in good training, in
working order as well as in subjection ; but his
powers of mind being deep rather than agile,
and at his age of seven-and-twenty not yet
having come to their full power, he gave to
the casual observer some impression of sternness.
This impression was aided by his circumstances.
At an age when many men are

VOL. I. I

enjoying the pride of their youth, with all
responsibility of life still on the shoulders of
their elders, Mayne Wastell had relinquished
one profession and devoted himself to another 
one requiring many small sacrifices, and affording
few opportunities for great ones, with no
place for display or distinction, he had altogether
come into his kingdom, and begun to
live as he meant to die. Had he told his own
history, which he was most unlikely to do,
unless in time to come he should need to explain
himself to the woman he loved  had he
told his story, he would have said that there
was only one event in it, certainly only one
crisis, that had cost him doubt, pain, and
sharp self-sacrifice, and that was clearly marked
in his memory as the time when he held
his life in his hand to turn it this way or
that.

From the boy's birth Major Wastell intended
his only son to go into the army, and
brought him up accordingly. His own spear

had been beaten into a pruning-hook in middle
life, after a fair share of adventure and a
moderate one of active service ; his life having
thus been interesting in its opening and satisfying
in its close, he looked for the same for his
son. Mayne's own tastes and powers led him
to choose the scientific service ; he passed out
of Woolwich with honours, found the Engineers
much to his liking, and spent in his corps several
hardworking, hopeful, and very happy years.
In an evil day for his son's career. Major
Wastell fell ill of a lingering illness, which
gradually sharpened his temper to an almost
insupportable degree, and to a great extent
weakened his judgment. He fancied that his
property was going to rack and ruin when he
could do nothing himself for its management ;
he grew suspicious of every one about him,
and only placed confidence in his son, who
was at a distance.

Mayne came home on leave when he could
do so, and found things at Wastell Warren in
I 2

a wretched state, to which his experience gave
no parallel His father was so ill that he must
not be contradicted, and so well that nothing
done in the house or on the estate escaped him ;
Mrs. Wastell was hollow checked and worn,
strained in body and mind almost to the breaking
point ; Lettice had been sent to school, and
was dismally unhappy there ; the bailiff had
given warning ; the agent was very nearly doing
the same; and the doctor was only kept about
his patient because he knew, what no one else
but Mrs. Wastell would believe, that all this ill
temper was only a ' symptom.'

For remedy, nothing would serve Major
Wastell but that Mayne should give up the
army and come home ' to look after things.'

You must come after my death ; come a
little earlier ; it will be my best comfort, and
it will keep things together  if they go on like
this much longer there will be nothing left for
any of you.'

Mayne had by this time learnt that his

father's death could not be long delayed, and
had looked forward accordingly to duties and
necessities that must come. He had no thought
of giving up his beloved profession so soon ashe
could live without it ; the Warren estate
was not so large as to make it imperative for the
owner to live on it ; and though Mayne loved
his home and the paternal acres as an Englishman
should, he had not the same exclusive
devotion to them that his father had grown
into, and did not see ' that keeping things together
' was his sole purpose in life. But it is
hard to resist a dying man, and that man an
honoured father, with whom his son had never
had a wrangle, much less a quarrel, in his
life.

Mrs. Wastell fought a good battle for her
stepson, and lost it.

I have done all I can, Mayne,' she said,
vrith. tears  ' I have done all I can for you. If
you refuse, I will never blame you ; but ask
Philip Odiarne, he is the only man who can

judge between you and your father ; ask him,
and abide by what he says.'

Mayne did consult his cousin, who had then
but newly come to Maybury as Vicar, though
in visits to his uncle's house he had learnt to
know him and Mayne and their affairs. Mr.
Odiarne, when he had heard all that was in
Mayne's mind, appealed to Major Wast el, who
gave in at the time, but with such evident
misery that Mayne was overcome by his own
victory and gave in on his side. Mr. Odiarne
could not say to him ' do this or that ' ; but
when, desiring only to do right, Mayne decided
on his self-sacrifice, he gave him such consolation,
encouragement, and sympathy, as made
them friends for life, instead of, as hitherto,
merely friendly cousins  and thus he gained
something to set against his heavy loss.

After a few trying months Major Wastell
died, and his son found that when the portions
of his sister and his stepmother were taken
from the estate he would be too poor a man to

be justified in being an idle one. This deficiency
was not from any failure of management
or realisation of his father's fears, but
from an unexpected depreciation of certain
investments on which Major Wastell had relied
to supply the charges on his estate. It was a
hard case for Mayne that he should have given
up his profession just when he most wanted it ;
but he never appeared soit for himself He
applied for such appointments as his short
service gave him chances for; but appointments
are the slowest things in the world to come
when they are wanted, and he turned his mind
to some plans of his friends for semi-scientific
travel, which were congenial and interesting, if
not likely to be immediately profitable.

Mrs. Wastell proposed to live at Cheltenham,
and leave the Warren to its heir; but one
day when she was consulting him about a
house there, he said : ' Why do you want to
five at that hateful place ? '

It win suit us, I think, and not be more

hateful than another,' said Mrs. Wastell, surprised.


What do you advise me to do with the
Warren ? '

If you travel for any length of time you
had better let the house. We will make yom
home in England for as long and as often as
you like ; that will be our holiday-time to look
forward to.'

A pretty look-out ! You and Lettice at
Villa No. 5,000, hating your lives ; and I at
every grubby hotel and cut-throat public-house
between here and 'Frisco ; with some fat grocer
from Maybury getting fatter at the Warren
while we break our three hearts for it ! '

Dear Mayne ! I know ; but we must make
the best of it.'

Don't see the necessity. Look here, dear
lady '  and Mayne turned his back, and looked
very shy  ' you are all the mother I have got,
and I don't want a better ; and I am all the son
you have got, and you can't get a better ; and

Lettice belongs to us both. Why can't you
stay here and be comfortable ? If you will,
I will.'

If it were right for you, my son ? '
said Mrs. Wastell, scrupulous but vanquished.
Widowhood was sore enough to her, and
she was young enough for a great shrinking
from that villa life, with its narrow scope, its
heavy society-tax, and, above all, its manufactured
artificial duties, which every one seemed
to think so very suitable for her, even waxing
eloquent about the perfect lady's house, with
its bright and cheerful drawing-room that she
could fit up in the newest fashion after her own
taste. Mrs. Wastell glanced round the large,
rather shabby drawing-room at the Warren,
vrith its miscellaneous pictures, furniture that
was a fortuitous concourse of goods, and
colouring that was an harmonious accident, and
she loathed that bright cheerful room in prospect.
She longed, too, that the flower-time of
Lettice's life should be spent in her father's

house and among his people, in the simple,
healthful, dutiful mode of life that had grownup
about his home, and in the wholesome companionship
of such a man as her brother. For
herself it was sweet now, in her sorrow, to feel
a warm return for the strong love she bore her
stepson.

It will be right if you and I agree ; but we
can ask Odiarne,' said Mayne, with manifest
pleasure. ' I cannot Hve here without your
help, but with it we shall do well. I shall take
the two Upland farms into my own hands, and
turn into a constitutional Briton.'

And what of the Rocky Mountains ? You
are giving up the plan that most interested you.'

The Rocky Mountains will keep ; nothing
better. I do not seem to care about travelling
if there is no Warren to come home to ; it
would lose its zest  like swimming, after your
clothes have been stolen.'

You will wish to marry some day, perhaps
very soon.'

Girls ought not to marry till they are
twenty-one ; you never know what they may
turn out till they are at least as old as that. I
must be ten years older than my wife, or I
shall not have her in hand ; that gives you and
me just seven years to rub on together  we
shall have time to marry Lettice, and look out
for a good villa.' Mayne looked brighter than
he had done since he gave up his commission.

This was four years before Cordelia Ashby
came on to the scene. Mayne was now eight-and-twenty,
and Lettice nineteen. Lettice had
had two offers of marriage, but Mayne had not
made even one. The home, as re-constituted
had prospered well, and, whatever might be the
end, they had four happy peaceful years to the
good.

One hot June day Cordelia spent some
hours at the Warren, following Mrs. Wastell or
Lettice about the house and garden, taking a
nap during the latter 's after-luncheon hour
of steady reading, but making Lettice give hera

short sketch both of her subject at large and
that day's portion of it, declining to help in
some useful needlework, but condescending to
lie in a hammock and watch its progress when
Lettice sat down under the beech-trees that
made the Warren summer parlour. It was
Mayne's hammock ; Lettice never used it,
saying that bed once in twenty-four hours was
enough for her. Cordelia made no defence,
but asked for another cushion, and, with lazy
body and active mind, lay looking up to the
diaper of golden-green leaves upon the sky,
and seeking for the secret of life at the Warren.
Before she could hit on the clue, the clang
of the distant gate into the avenue was faintly
heard through the afternoon stillness, then
horse-hoofs, and the sharper clip of the gate
near the house. ' It is Judith Carling,' said
Lettice ; ' she must have come to talk to my
mother. She is always bringing her some
sentimental difficulty or some religious straw
to split. Mamma encourages her, when if she

gave her a good slap and told her to mind
her sick mother it would do her some good.
Mamma enjoys nothing so much as a religious
difficulty.'

I thought religious people did not have
difficulties, but went on all serene, you know.'

I cannot see why they should,' said Lettice,
reasoning from experience, ' but many of them
have. It is because it is not necessary to be
sensible to be religious I suppose. Judith's
conscience is a constant plague ; it worries her,
or she worries it, till she is miserable, and then
she rides six miles in a roasting afternoon to
talk to my mother, who is sweetly sympathising.
That comforts her till the next time she can
have the horses, when she goes to some one
equally good six miles off on the other side,
who tells her something exactly different. If
she would try to make the poor people at
Longhurst send their children to school, her
difficulties would be of another sort.'

From the drawing-room window came to

them a plump young woman in a riding-habit ;
she was about seven-ands twenty, with flat,
colourless hair, a pale complexion, fine grey
eyes, and rather a sad expression.

Ah, Judith ! have you been conferring
with my mother? Come here and cheer up
a little. This is my cousin, Cordelia Ashby.'

Miss Carling bowed absently towards the
wrong end of the hammock, where Cordelia
had placed her rush hat over her toes. ' Someone
is claiming Mrs. Wastell's attention; a
broken leg, I believe,' she said, in an injured
tone.

It is Jacky's hospital ticket ; I must send
word about it. Get up, Cordie, and talk to
Judith,' said Lettice, very briskly.

Cordelia obeyed, startling Judith by sending
her hat flying from the point of her left foot.

Are you trying to be good ? ' she asked
politely ; and as Miss Carhng did not seem quite
prepared with an answer, continued, ' Most of
the people here are good, it seems ; I have

come to the right place. Mrs. Wast el teaches
you, does she not ? '

I think she has a great deal of sympathy ;
she understands one's secret longings after a
purer and loftier atmosphere. I often take
counsel with her,' said Judith, loftily.

She is very good, I know, and so is Lettice
and her brother ; but they have not that  that
power, you know  the tremendous force and
go towards goodness that makes a few people
such dabs at it.'

A smaller soul than Judith Carling's might
have suspected a gibe, but she hardly noticed
the incongruity of matter and expression.

There are different natures ; some are
content with a humble level of mere action,
like Lettice, and some aspire and yearn  I do
that  towards heights of ineffable calm where
all this miserable commonplace does not
intrude.' She pointed with her riding whip
over the delicate blue distance divided by May-bury
spire, and over the nearer slope of green

tree-tops that fell softly down the hill-side from
the Warren.

Cordelia was interested. ' I know the best
people feel that calm within them, and they
seem to be on a far-away height ; but how is
one to get there ? '

One must aspire, keep above all these
petty miseries,' said the lady, making room for
the tea-table ; and in a lower voice, as Lettice
returned, she added, ' We must keep ourselves
away, free ; abstract ourselves in an ecstasy of
devotion, seek to breathe the divine incense 
not this gross common air,' and she glanced
up at the blue June heaven.

Mrs. Wastell followed Lettice, bringing a
basket of strawberries  she was always carrying
something good, said Cordelia ; and the
four ladies found their different philosophies
meet very comfortably in a common taste.

CHAPTEE Viii.

Scenes AND PROVERBS.

To be there as a friend

Seem'd then, seems still, excuse for pride ;
For something that abode endued

With temple-like repose, an air
Of life's kind purposes pursued

With order'd freedom sweet and fair.

Coventry Patmore.

When Miss Carling had gone, Mayne Wastell
joined the other three, not without suspicion of
having watched her departure.

Well, Cordelia, you look oppressed. What
did Judith say ? '

She says she yearns,' answered Cordelia,
thoughtfully.

For any one in particular ? '

I wish she did, then she could be killed or
cured,' said Lettice.

Xot if it is for me. I am not equal to

VOL. I. K

either course.' said Mayne. ' She used to be
rather jolly when we were little boys together,
bat now I flee from before her ; she has addled
her brain with trying to be clever, not guessing
what a rare comfort a stupid girl is in these
days.'

I do not like you to laugh at her ; she is
really in earnest,' said Mrs. Wastell.
She is a perfect owl ! ' said Lettice.
She makes earnest ridiculous,' said Mayne.
I used to feel very much as she does once.'
Mother ! what a libel on yourself.'
What cured you, my lady ? ' said Mayne.
Tell us, for we might try it on this interesting
patient ; but I cannot think you were so sad a
case. What is sovereign for undigested metaphysics
? '

What cured you, mother ? ' repeated
Lettice.

My dears,, I think it was your father. All
that exaggerated feeling and sentimentalism
was more common, and also more respected, in

my day than in this ; your follies and exaggerations
run in the opposite extreme, if I may hint
that you have any. When your father's clear
good sense was brought to bear on my mind,
folly and effervescence calmed down. It was
a great thing for a girl to be under such an
influence, and I gave myself up entirely to it. I
do not always know now which of my thoughts
and opinions are my own, and which come of
forefather teaching.' ]airs. Wastell spoke
with a smile and a sigh, and there was a tender
little blush on her faded cheek as she moved
away from the younger ones.

My mother would never have been such a
goose as Judith ; but she always thinks herself
guilty of other people's failings,' said Lettice,
still fierce.

" There, but for the grace of God, stands
John Bunyan." That is her sentiment in presence
of the wicked  not that Judith is to be named
with such. What do you think, Cordelia ? '
asked Mayne, catching sight of her face.

That if I were Miss Carling I should not
want to be cured, as you call it. Is there anything
wrong in wishing to be different  very
good  as she does? '

She only wants to talk about herself,' said
Lettice.

Nay, she means well ; but I wish she
would use ordinary methods and not talk
' promiscuous." It would be a fine thing for
her to fall in love.'

To cure her of trying to be good ? ' said
Cordelia.

Not exactly ; but it would have a startling
effect upon her. Were you ever in love, Miss
Ashby ? '

'Never. Were you?' asked Cordelia, calmly.
Lettice was aghast at her boldness, and thought
Mayne foolish, especially when he answered,

I have thought myself so sometimes, but I
have seen reason to think myself mistaken very
soon indeed ; it had not been the real thing, I
am afraid.'

I have seen people make boiled owls of
themselves over Sophy, and I have known girls
go idiotic over a man, a heap of them at once ;
but I never saw the real thing.'

Xot when your sister married ? ' asked
Lettice.

Xot she ! Duncan must have been rather
gone, for he asked her twice to marry him, and
actually spoke to the Colonel. Sophy was mad
at that, for she could have kept him floating
a long time. When the Colonel heard of
it he sat up four hours with her telling her of
Duncan's advantages, and made her see it at
last.'

You should not repeat those things ! ' exclaimed
Lettice, in deep disgust.

'I should hardly call that the real thing.
When I see a good typical pair of lovers, I will
point them out to you, and we will enlarge our
minds at their expense. Only when your time
comes, Mistress Cordeha, I wish you a more
merciful chronicler than you are to your sister,

and I shall take care that you do not tell my
story. Come and have some tennis ; it is cooler
now.'

Lettice and her brother were great tennis-players.
Lettice's firm little figure was as well
poised and as active as a bird's, and she played
with great neatness and precision pleasant to
behold. Mayne was also a gratifying spectacle,
and played well. The ground about the Warren
was so undulating that it was difficult to find a
good space for more than one court. The lawn
they used was rather small. As they went
to it, Lettice said, 'I think a ground could
be contrived here, below the fence, without
much digging.'

Hardly room. Let us step it. Stand here,
Cordeha. Eleven, twelve  now mark the
corner, Lettice ! '

If this little hollow were filled up, there
would be room,' said Lettice, looking critically
along the short fine grass.

It must be cut further back into the slope,'

said Mayne. 'No, ma'am, it will take too
much navvy work.'

Will it ? Perhaps in the autumn ? *

 Too big a job, till autumn twelve months,
at least. It is a pity, for it would be sheltered
from the wind. Well, " Quand on n'a pas ce
qu'on aime, il faut aimer ce qu'on a ! ' " said
Mayne.

I thought that was one of the devil's proverbs,'
said Cordelia, naming the old gentleman
without useless periphrasis, 'encouraging
us to be content with lower things, just as
Chassez le naturel, il revient au galop "
teaches us to leave our faults alone. Soeur
Lucie said so when we were choosing proverbs
to play.'

Philip Odiarne says people quote " One
may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb "
in excuse for one more sin,' remarked Lettice.


I must save my character somehow,' said
Mayne. ' I suppose even Solomon's " He that

is surety for a stranger shall smart for it " is to
be taken as worldly wisdom, and not as an excuse
for selfishness.'

Mayne speaks feelingly,' said Lettice ; 'he
recommended a stray German to lodgings in
Maybury, and then had to pay his bill ; and he
will do it again for the next forlorn one. Now,
Cordie, serve your ball and don't moralise."

I shall never play,' said Cordelia. ' It is
not my style.'

Never say die ! Why not ? Do you
mean to give way to idleness and Aunt Susan's
cakes ? '

It is not idleness, but it is not my style to
hop about and look sharp, with my wits at the
end of my bat. It suits Lettice ; it is her style
to do quick brisk things.'

And what is your style, if one may ask ? '

'To be majestic and quiet, to sit still and
have people round me ; quite the ponderous
swell, you know.'

A stately queen  I can see you now, in

purple and gold and peacock's feathers. Very
good when you are forty, but in the mean time
I advise tennis, for if you get too fat you will
spoil the effect,' replied Mayne, laughing. He
could well picture Cordelia as a stately beauty,
although, in spite of the lavish expenditure of
two hundred and eighty ill-gotten francs on her
wardrobe, there was still a good deal of the
ragamuffin in her appearance. She took the
racquet he handed her, and, with the ready
docility that made half her popularity, took a
rather successful lesson.

Now, you do like it ? ' said Mayne, as she
paused, looking very bright and flushed with
success, though not with victory.

Yes, I like playing with you, and feeling
that 1 can do it a little ; but I should not care
to play much  it is not like walking or riding,
that give one time to think.'

Is that it ? ' said Mayne, looking at her
quizzically, but with understanding.

He left them after a game with Lettice, and

Cordelia said to the latter, ' Why did you not
stick to it? You would have got your new
tennis-ground with a little coaxing or bullying,
whichever may be the right way with your
brother.'

Very likely ; but Mayne is doing several
expensive things just now  some draining that
will improve the North Upland Farm ; and
there is a very pet scheme for some better
cottages.'

But he would like it himself, better than
dirty drains and cottages.'

I could not use my influence to persuade
him to do what is not right, or to neglect
important duties for our own pleasure,' said
Lettice, loftily.

Do you think your influence is as tall as
that ? ' said Cordeha, not the least impressed.

Lettice laughed, nothing offended. 'Sto;
it is a long way short. Cart-ropes would not
make him do anything really wrong ; but he is
so kind that I meant he might wish to please

me at the expense of things important to his
interest.'

Is he good ? '

Of course he is ; no one better.'

Bat he laughs at your Sunday school and
at Miss Carhng, and he said strong things about
that revival meeting.'

Do you mean, is he religious ? Yes. We
women talk and preach, but few of us are as
good as Mayne. He never has the things he
likes best, but he never grumbles ; and he does
not laugh at good work, only at me for making
too much fuss. Mayne has the right thing, deep
down. He says nothing, but one is sure of
him.'

You all seem to be good here, even the
young men.'

And why not the young men ? One goodman
is worth three good women. I am not
suite that they are more rare, but they don't
pretend.'

They do not always take to it like ducks

to a pond. Nor do I, worse luck ! I do not
see my way at all yet,' Cordelia ended, with a
sigh.

Oh, Cordie, if only I could help you ! I
know Aunt Susan's ways are not always just
suited to girls ; and as for the clergy  men do
not always understand, and I dare say you are
shy of them. I shall be so very glad if I can
help you.'

Thank you, but you can't at all ; I do
think you are as good a girl as I know, but it

must be a ' Cordelia was beginning to

drop some of her flowers of speech as she learnt
which of them distressed her new friends, but
this time her only resource was to say, ' a very
dab hand at it.'

The girls parted, and Cordelia, full of
thought, went down the Maybury road towards
Ivy Cottage. It was a warm, cloudy evening ;
she took her hat off her tangled head and
swung it over her shoulder on her red parasol,
and never noticed that as she walked along the

frequented road man' people turned to gaze
at her  a party of young men returning
from a cricket match, two or three more on
bicycles, the Yicar going to dine at the Warren,
Mr. Horley for his evening ride, a carriage full
of people coming from the station, and a good
many young couples bound for a country stroll.
Most of them stared at Cordelia  the cricketers,
I regret to say, cheered her ; only the Vicar did
not appear to see her, and the Vicar was the
only person Cordeha noticed, as she recognised
his thin face in a hansom cab. ' Voila mon
affaire ! ' she thought, ' if I can but manage it.'

Aunt Susan was in the garden in her
favourite position commanding the gate and
the passers-by. She knew exactly who had
passed during the last quarter of an hoi*, what
their objects where, and who would meet
Cordeha.

Dearest Aunt Susie, how sweet to find you
glad to see me ! I never remember my elders
and betters glad to see me in all my Hfe ]

I have been looking for you ; it is nearly
our tea-time. I fear you have not left Lettice
time to dress for dinner.'

 Oh, Lettice will soon tumble into her clean
frock ! '

And, my dear, have you come all the way
down like this  without your gloves, and your
hat off ? You would meet Mr. Odiarne, and
the Kilburne carriage '

I am afraid I met all Maybury. I never
thought you would mind. I am awfully cut
about it since you do. Here is a note from
Mrs. Wastell. I know what is in it, and I don't
want to go.'

Gently now ! Julia never learnt to write
a really ladylike hand ; and what absurd paper !
You are asked to the Warren to go to the
fete at Sir John Somers', and to stay a few days.
That will be nice for you.'

I had rather stay with you. Aunt Susie. I
have only been here a fortnight, and I feel
more at home than ever I did in my life.'

It is only for a few days ; an old woman is
not enough for a child like you, and I wish
you to be at the Warren ; it is good for you.'

Do you wish me to be like Lettice ? I
think it will not be much use to try. She is
not bad, but she is not my style. I should not
make much out of trying to be like Mrs. Wastell
either ; though I think, next to you, she is
quite the too most awful duck I ever spotted.'

You are the most awful quite a goose. If
you and I are to be friends we must speak the
same language ; and as you do not learn mine
very quickly, I must learn yours. I hope you
think it suits my cap and stick ? '

How you laugh at me ! so does Mayne ;
but when I say rummy things, without meaning
it, Lettice looks unutterable, and I feel vile.
Mayne would make the best model, and learn
me manners best.'

Certainly, if you were a young man ; but
as you are not, it would be more modest to
propose his sister as your model.'

Cordelia blushed furiously, and looked
offended. ' I suppose you mean I am not to
be so go-ahead ; " modest " is a cracker of a
word to use ? '

'Words alter their force as years go on. I
only intended a very light rebuke, my dear.
To be as dutiful and unselfish as Mayne Wastell
would be good for man or woman. Have you
dresses suitable for this visit ? ' with a glance at
her niece's costume, which bore traces of the
hammock.

'Yes, auntie. That new dark-blue frock
for morning; the black with red ribbons for
evening ; and for the fete I have a gown that
Sophy got in Paris, white  it is all right, I
think,' said Cordelia, confidently. She had
spent her ten pounds cleverly, and had never
been so well fitted out before. Miss Hooper
had seen the dark-blue and the black gowns,
works of a Mentone dressmaker, and took the
white one on trust, as a younger woman would
not have done.

CHAPTEE IX.

FAIR PASSAGES.

O day most calm, most bright,

The fruit of this, the next world's bud.

G. Herbert.

The great event of the Maybury neighbourhood
curing this summer was the coming of
age of Sir John Somers' eldest son, and most
of the country-houses near were filled with
visitors for the fete. At the Warren were
Captain Longley, once a brother officer of
Mayne Wastell's, with his young wife, a stout
handsome little woman, who admired herself
and her married position immensely ; and Mr.
Conyngham Sedley, a London man, approaching
middle age, whose family had once resided
in the county, and who was everybody's old
friend. He represented himself as full of engagements
in this early July, and as being only

VOL. I. L

torn with great difficulty from the friends to
whom he was necessary in town ; but it was
well understood that he had looked forward
for months to this visit to Wast el Warren, and
would stay as long as he could stretch his
invitation. Mr. Odiarne was also to be of the
Warren party. Cordelia's handsome young
face and bright considering eyes made a notable
addition to the circle. She did not talk
much, though she responded readily when addressed.
Neither she nor Lettice were noisy,
or inclined to Hurt or to become excited with
talking, and this for exactly opposite reasons.
Lettice was proud, well trained, and self-respecting,
as well as a very little self-conscious
; she never forgot her manners. Cordelia
looked on herself as of no account ; she was
absolutely unembarrassed and perfectly simple
in all her ways ; treated every one, old and
young, male and female, with exactly the same
calmness ; was deeply interested in other people,
and never dreamt that any one could be interested

in her, or care for what ?he said or
did.

Some of the neighbours dined at the Warren
on the Saturday. Mrs. Wast el remarked that
being a Saturday she could not hav-e a large
or late party, puzzling Cordelia a good deal.
What difference could the day of the week
make ? It was the latter's first experience of
English country society ; she admired, but was
awed. Mrs. Wastell's handsome evening dress
showed off the old-fashioned type of her beauty,
which belonged to the bygone time when softness
and grace were admired, and ' elegance '
was sought after ; when a delicate complexion
was cherished, and a white and shapely forehead
was a feature not to be concealed. Dress
made very little difference to Lettice. She
looked the same trim and neat little woman at
all times, and went about her social duties with
the same completeness and accuracy that she
brought to all her occupations, perhaps with
the same shade of complacency.
l2

Mrs. Wastell was a very good musician, and
played both piano and harp with great taste
and delicacy. Lettice's lesser powers had been
carefully cultivated, and she sang well. Mayne
sang better, and had a fine voice ; but their
chief musical allies were absent this evening ;
and, as a relief from strictly family music, Mrs.
Wastell asked Mrs Longley to sing. She declined
; and Mayne, while she was still making
her excuse, casually asked Cordelia if she did
not sing ; he thought he had heard her. ' Oh,
yes, I will sing, if you like,' she answered
obligingly, and without further invitation or
prelude struck a single note on the piano, near
which she stood. She sang a rollicking little
French song in praise of wine, in a fresh,
strong, quite uncultivated voice. Some of the
gentlemen thought it and the singer charming ;
but Mr. Conyngham Sedley lifted his eyebrows
high in response to Mrs. Longley 's glance.
Lettice, whom the jovial measure brought from
the other end of the room, expressed her relief

that it was French, and no worse. She knew
some of Cordeha's songs.

Sunday morning at the Warren was fresh
and shining. The very flower-beds looked
cain and orderly. The scent of the hay from
one field suggested placid waiting for Monday,
while the clean raked surface of another told
of work finished on Saturday. There was no
post-bag till midday, at which Mr. Sedley
meant to grumble, but forgot. Lettice was ina
white frock, but was so far out of harmony
with the scene as to wear a business face : the
Sunday school was on her mind ; nothing, and
no one, must keep her from it. She wss also
desirous that all the party should go to the
Uplands for service ; a tiny church, served by
the Maybury clergy, and where she, Lettice,
was general director ; and that they should not
stray away for possible town attractions at
Maybury. Mrs. Wastell answered for herself
and Mrs. Longley. Captain Longley asked
which walk was the coolest, and Mi Sedley

declared that the whole Sunday duty of country
ladies was to ' set a good example,' and he
would help Lettice in this, to him, novel function.
Then there was Cordelia.

'May I go with you, Lettice, and see a
Sunday school ? ' she asked.

Oh, yes ! I should like to show you how
we manage.'

Miss Ashby is not of the Sunday-school
pattern. Will she be up to pranks?' asked
Conyngham Sedley of Mayne, as they stood on
the portico and watched Lettice set off with an
armful of books, accompanied by Cordelia, the
correctness of whose Sunday attire was marred
by the shabby red parasol with its bull dog
handle.

Across the large park-like field that gave
its name to the Warren, and by a deep green
lane, they came to the Uplands Church  a
very venerable building indeed, on which
learned, and therefore wary, archaeological
spoke in the most guarded and uninstructive

terms. Painters, who are a freer folk, loved
the pure silver grey of the low thick walls,
and the steep and high-tiled roof, which was of
every colour that time all softening, lichens
white and orange, and mosses brown and
green, can turn a roof that no living man
remembers to have been red. The hillocky
churchyard was enclosed by stout oaken posts
and rails, on which were perched about forty
of the Uplands children. At sight of ' Miss,'
and on this occasion of ' one with her,' they
scampered off to a small schoolhouse adjoining
the churchyard, and sorted themselves into
order before Lettice arrived and took the command,
a small but efficient captain. Her two
lieutenants, the village schoolmistress and a
farmer's daughter, appeared a minute later,
and read in Lettice's eye that they were that
minute behind time. She read prayers, called
over names, distributed books, and presently
established Cordelia in a chair on one side of
a hollow square, with nine middle-sized boys

filling the other three sides. ' Now, boys, you
must be very good with this lady, as she is
kind enough to teach you. Jimmy ! What are
you thinking of. Give me those bulls-eyes
immediately ! ' Jimmy meekly handed over a
small sticky screw of newspaper, which Lettice
pocketed without a shudder. ' Hear them say
their collects and hymns, and then give them a
lesson on the Second Commandment,' she whispered
to Cordeha, who began to wish she had
taken Mayne Wastell's hint and declared for
Maybury Church.

They were nice little boys, Cordelia
thought, on a second glance, and it would
be easy to make friends with them. They
were very much alike, with flaxen hair, blue
eyes, and pink cheeks ; but one, who was pale,
with brown hair and a sad look, reminded
her of Fero, and made her heart long for the
child. This boy had learnt the collect, and
would by no means be disappointed of rehearsing
it, in a high voice at a wonderful

speed, with his eyes stonily fixed on the
wall above Cordelia's head. Another boy followed,
saying something else. He was rebuked
for this by the head boy, who, finding that
Cordeha was deaf to his insinuations  ' It bethe
wrong un ; it be last Sunday ; he ain't
learnt it '  at last found the place in a prayer-book,
and summarily convicted her of not
knowing which Sunday after Trinity it was.
Lie dunno, she don't,' was whispered round
the class, and Cordelia felt that she must do
something to revive her failing prestige. ' Do
you say hymns ? ' she asked. This produced
another book, and the boys repeated each some
verses with much decorum, and Cordeha felt
afloat again.

One of the hymns repeated went to a
popular tune, and Cordelia began to linn it
in brisk time, giving it an airy and dancing
tilt, which the tune bore better than the
words. The boys were delighted, and took it
up vigorously ; but they were hardly in swing

when* a peremptory message came down the
room from Lettice. They must not sing now,
and would Miss Ashby keep her class quiet ?
This was not so easy, but a glance at the boy
who was like Fero inspired her. She took her
parasol and twisted her handkerchief round it
to make a body for the bull-dog's head, the
boys looking on with breathless interest as she
cleverly twisted the corners to make his fore-paws
and his curly tail. Then announcing him
as the real dog Toby, she began a little play with
him that had often been little Fero's joy. The
boys, silent at first, began to snigger with
delight, then to laugh aloud, and very soon
there was an uproar that threatened to involve
the whole school. All at once, as the boys
were clustered about Cordeha's knee, an awe
fell upon them, their faces stiffened from their
grins, though their mouths remained open ;
they sank back into their places and gazed,
wondering what might befall.

A grave voice behind Cordelia said, ' Are

the boys troublesome? Perhaps you are not
used to them.' Looking round, she saw Mr.
Odiarne, his tall head far above her, casting
inquiring glances at the boys, at her, and at
the dog Toby, who grinned unabashed at him
from the parasol stick.

'I wanted to keep them quiet,' she murmured,
feeling that things had somehow gone
wrong.

Give me your place for a few minutes.
Sit here, if you will, on the bench.'

Cordelia gladly subsided, and after a question
or two, till the boys had recovered the just
balance of their behaviour, Mr. Odiarne began
to give them a lesson. It was on the Good
Shepherd. He spoke so clearly that Cordelia,
really more untaught than the least of the
boys, Hastened with deep interest, amazed also
to find how much these children knew as they
unfailingly answered the scientifically put questions.
Then the Vicar went on to speak of the
Shepherd's love and tender care, and Cordelia's

eyes swam and the tears even dropped over, asher
heart swelled and filled with the sense of
consolation, and as the aching places in it were
touched. The little boys listened gravely and
with evident enjoyment, but they were not
too much absorbed to see Cordelia's tears, nor
to confide to each other as they filed out of the
schoolroom that ' She were a rum 'un, she
were ; and she must reckon she were going
to catch it. Goals always cried when Muster
Odiarne he give it 'em.'

It was unusual for the Vicar of Maybury
to take the morning service at Uplands, the
dignity of his office requiring him to be at the
parish church ; but to-day a stranger was
preaching there, and he was free for a duty that
he particularly liked. He took the whole
service, and preached a simple direct kind of
sermon from the lectern. Cordelia listened
as she had never Hastened before ; Mr. Odiarne
seemed so near, and his words to come with the
force of an individual address, more personal

and closer than then he took part in the
stately service in the great church at Maybury,
or preached from the lofty pulpit to the
crowded, intelligent, and eager congregation
who liked to have an intellectual exercise as
well as, or for their own choice much better
than, a spiritual instruction.

What a treat to have Philip here ! ' said
Mrs. Wastell, as they all walked home together.

'I think I like him best when he brings
down, or, I had better say, condenses his great
powers to an old woman's sermon.'

It was nice and short,' said Mrs. Longley.

Odiarne is a very good hand  too good for
the rustics ; he should get a London church,'
said Mr. Conyngham Sedley.

I like him best at Maybury,' said Lettice ;
when he gives one really something to think
of and work out  not a mere Sunday-school
lesson, as to-day.'

Which Miss Wastell of the Warren could
have given as well ? * whispered Mayne to her,

with a glance at Cordelia, who was close by,
that met With no response.

Yes,' said Lettice, simply ; ' so I like to
learn something to add to my store.'

What do you say. Miss Ashby ? ' asked
Captain Longley, who admired her, and liked
to draw her out, as he called it.

I have no store, only an empty basket ;
while Lettice's is full and bursting. I think I
can put a nut in mine to-day. I never listened
to a sermon before.'

You are honest. What a mind you must
have to entertain yourself through all the
sermons you have to sit through. I am afraid
I often listen from pure vacancy.'

I do not often go to church  Sophy
seldom goes  and I do not like it much yet ;
some day I suppose I shall.'

Mrs. Longley heard this. She had her
doubts about Cordelia: the girl was so evidently
new to the sort of life the Wastels led ;
her style was so odd; she must have had a

queer bringing up ; there was a screw loose
somewhere. i\Irs. Longley was sure that her
own screws were tight, and so found it agreeable
to finger other people's, to make certain
that there was not a little exciting slackness

o

here and there. Mr. Odiarne overtook them
here. Mrs. Longley was minded to say a word
about Cordeha, but was deterred ; she knew
not why.

Cordie, you got on pretty well with your
class for a first attempt, though you must learn
to keep the boys a little quieter,' said Lettice,
kindly, when they were alone. The bull-dog
expedient had been lost on Lettice, absorbed
with her big girls.

I will not try again. I must learn something
myself  from Mr. Odiarne if I can.
He spoke so to the children ; those little
scamps listened ! And I was a pulp in no
time.'

Dear Cordie, we will all teach you, and
you will be the best of pupils ! ' Lettice stood

on tip-toe to kiss Cordelia's cheek, which was
not at all bent towards her.

Before Mr. Odiarne left the Warren after
luncheon, Lettice caught him. ' I am coming
down the avenue with you, Philip ; I want to
ask you something  it is not an old woman
this time, but a young one  Cordelia Ashby.'

What of her ? Do you wish to beg pardon
for having set her down to teach in my Sunday
school without leave ? '

No. I found, however, that I had made
a mistake ; she does not know how to keep
order.'

There are two or three more little things
that she does not know. I thought you were a
wiser superintendent than that, Lettice. Never
mind. What do you want to say about her ? '

I want you to see to her a little. Cousin
Philip ; though she is so wild and has been so
queerly brought up, her great wish is towards
better things, and she wants teaching.'

Does she want to be taught ? '

Yes, I meant that.'

You may find her above your hands as a
pupil.'

I have offered to help her more than once,
but she flies off; and though she loves dear
Aunt Susan, and seems to think great things of
my mother, she is not willing to be taught by
them. She would listen to you, I know.'

Knox looks after the young women ; she
had better be under him.'

I am afraid Cordie would laugh at him ;
she calls him '

Xever mind what ! I am sure she has
great powers of characterisation.'

Yes,' said Lettice, laughing. ' But she has
also really serious aspirations, and I want so
very much to do her good. You will talk to
her, Philip ; no one will be of so much use to
her as you will.'

I must take your word for it that she is in
earnest. I have small faith in my powers of
doing any good to a flippant young person who

VOL. I. M

only wants to be amused, and will bestow some
sticking nickname on me for my pains  not
that it will do any harm to me, but I cannot
have her ridicule serious things.'

You know I would not risk that.'
Well, I will think of it, for Aunt Susan's
sake as well as for your asking. I am going
with you to the Silverwood fete tomorrow,
and I will take another look at your cousin.*

CHAPTER X.

A GUIDE.

And there evermore was music, both of instrument and singing,
Till the finches of the shrubberies grew restless in the dark ;
But the cedars stood up motionless, each in a moonlight ringing,
And the deer, half in the gammer, strewed the hollows of
the park.

E. Barrett Brooding.

The fete at Silverwood, to celebrate the coming
of age of Sir John Somers' heir, was a comprehensive
entertainment, beginning, so far as
the gentry were concerned, with a dinner on a
scale that seemed to require the use of the word
banquet ; ' going on to fireworks so soon as the
summer night would darken sufficiently to
allow of strange fires ; and ending with a ball.
Earlier in the day the tenantry were entertained,
and before them the labourers and the
school-children. Sir John, who had married

M 2

late in life, and was the father of three daughters
before his much-desired eldest son was born,
was glorious on this day, and by far the happiest
person present. Lady Somers looked a
little anxious and tired as she stood, a fair conventional
woman, who always struggled up to
what was expected of her, between her husband
and her son, and replied bravely to yet another
batch of congratulations ; but Sir John was
quite fresh, though he had made four speeches
that day and looked forward to two more. He
beamed on all the world, fairly anticipated
congratulations, listened to nothing that was
said to him, and looked on the younger John
as if that worthy had taken a city, instead
of merely thriving on the fat of the land for
twenty-one years.

Mrs. Wastell, in full sympathy with her
neighbour's joy, said the prettiest possible
things to her hosts and to the hero of the day.

You poor Jock, shall you pull through ? '
was Lettice's salutation to the heir.

I am bearing up ; thanks. Keep the second
waltz for me. Wish it was come ! Lots to go
through before then,' whispered Jock, hurriedly.
He was a plain youth, with a square frowning
brow, and a wide mouth that would look better
when he had a little more moustache ; but he
was unexceptionable in everything but looks, and
he was a general favourite. Mayne's greeting
to him was a compound of nod and wink, that
conveyed sympathy, encouragement, and a hope
of meeting when better times should come.

ffiss Ashby was presented in due form to
the seniors  the young Somers' had met her
before  and the Wastell party moved on. Miss
Somers met them  a tall fair-haired girl, like
her mother, but with more originality and force
of character. ' You dear people ! How glad I
am to see some one to whom I need not be
polite. Caro and I have been at it for seven
hours already ; this is my third clean frock and
second box of gloves ; and all the time we
feel such inferior creatures, such mere women ;

while Tim and Toby, who are nearly as good
fellows as Jock on other days, are made to feel
their junior position acutely. Not one of us
dare to go near Jock for fear of catching his
eye, or if once he laughs it is all over with
him.'

In spite of her complaints Charlotte Somers
looked wel] and spoke at her best. She was
excited to just the right pitch of animation by
the knowledge, or rather the feeling, that there
was some one standing near in whose eyes
she could do no wrong, and in whose ears the
simplest word she said was perfection.

Tim and Toby, hereafter to be known to
fame as Theodore and Alexander Somers, now
came up. They were taller, better-looking,
and more assured young men than their elder
brother, and, though the estate was strictly
entailed, they were lighter of heart on this particular
evening.

Poor Jock,' said Tim, ' all his dances are
cut out for him. He may dance once with

Lettice, but he won't get a turn with Miss Ashby
because she is a stranger. I shall cut Lettice
because she snubbed me about the volleys the
other day, and dance with Miss Ashby as often
as she will let me.'

Don't you talk ! ' said Toby ; ' Mayne, he
has to do Miss Pigeon and Mrs. Wad dell
before he may look out for himself, and as I
am but a youth I am let off with Miss Martin-dale.'


And a very nice girl you'll find her ;
She'll pass very well for forty-three
In the dusk with the light behind her,*

chanted Cordelia, gaily, in not too low a voice.

Miss Somers looked round nervously ; Toby
was delighted. Mr. Odiarne, who had heard
the words but not their application, put on a
comical face, and looked at Lettice.

Come, Cordelia, and look at Jock's tea-putting,
and don't bear so hard ; any of us
may be forty-three some day,' said Mayne,
taking the rash young creature to the other end

of the long drawing-room. Lettice gazed after
them anxiously. Mrs. Longley made an expressive
gesture as she said, ' Did you see her before
she got into the carriage? I did not, or I
would have warned you. Where can she have
laid hands on such a thing ? '

The ' thing ' in question was Cordeha's
gown ; it was only in part responsible for
Lettice's look, but a hard little woman like
Mrs Longley could not be permitted to tread
on tender places. The gown was certainly a
grievance, even to people far less sensitive in the
matter of clothes than Mrs. Longley. It was
of white cashmere, slashed with red satin and
trimmed with gold braid  harmless materials
enough, but the costume was made in Paris for
Mrs. Lichfield to wear at a fancy ball ; the whole
style of it was so fast  it was so audaciously
kilted up in one place and let down in another, it
was so short in front and so long behind, that
Cordelia's tall figure and handsome vivacious face
where made altogether too conspicuous. Besides,

the white was dimmed, the satin frayed, the gold
tarnished, so that the garment was more like
an old theatrical property than the companion
of the fresh, correct, and rather prim and stiffly
worn dresses of the English country girls.
Cordeha had not thought twice on the matter ;
she had a fine gown not so fresh as she could
have wished, but undoubtedly fine, and good
enough for her, Cordelia, a person of no
account. She heartily admired Lettice in soft
cloudy white, like a cotton-grass tuft, though
wishing some broad touches of decided colour
were added. ' Lettice has so much character ;
she is not that vaporous kind of person really,
and her dress should be distinct too.' She also
saw that Mrs. Longley, in an arrangement of
shining blue and green, with dots of coral
pink, very tight, well padded and important,
looked like a pigeon  a resemblance that she
pointed out to Mayne ; but she never thought
of her own dress, nor of the effect she might
produce.

For the great dinner in the tent Tim Somers
provided Miss Ashby with a partner in their
London lawyer's son  a young man on whom
he could thoroughly depend  and bade him
place her on his, Tim's, right hand. Captain
Longley was opposite to them, with a very
lively young married lady ; and the fun at that
table, somewhat removed from the elders and
betters in the chief seats, was fast and furious.
Mayne Wastell, with Judith Carling, was near
enough to see much and hear a little, but too far
off to join. Judith was very metaphysical and
abstruse ; his head was bent towards her, but
his gaze went beyond, to the spot where his
young guest was making a fool of herself in
such a very bewitching manner that he wished
on all accounts he had been nearer. He hoped
that Lettice was out of earshot.

We must consider Thought quite apart
from the thing thought of  Thought as Thought
in the abstract. If we are not able to throw
ourselves outside of ourselves, and watch the

operations of our own minds ' Judith

was saying, when her neighbour's earnest look
attracted Cordeha's glance. Not content with
replying in kind to his little nod of recognition,
it entered into her head to testify her regard by
throwing at him a large pink sugared almond
from the cracker she had just pulled with Tim.
Just at the moment when there arose above the
din the trembling accents of poor Jock, once more
returning thanks for the flattering terms in which,
&c., &c.  flop ! went Cordeha's missile right into
Miss Carling's glass of champagne, sending the
cheering liquor into her eyes, and breaking the
glass with a clash. Judith squeaked aloud ; someone
else thought it must be a bullet as the likeliest
thing to come skimming down the table at that
juncture, and screeched in concert. Cordelia's
neighbours betrayed her by giggles and laughs
that amounted to an interruption of the speech.
Jock broke doAvn, and about half the guests,
in their indignation or amusement, forgot the
applause that would have covered everything.

During the fireworks Cordelia was missing ;
but when the dancing began she was found to
be well provided with partners among a number
of young men, who, being admitted to Silver-wood
on rare and great occasions only, were a
little oppressed with the burden of an honour
unto which they were not born. They introduced
themselves or each other to Miss Ashby,
and made a little subsidiary queen of her.
Lettice, popular as well as pretty, was in great
request as a partner among her own set ; but
though much occupied, she had time to feel
greatly hurt and annoyed when she came across
Cordelia, with her loose hair and her undesirable
gown, dancing with young Taylor from the
Maybury bank, or Horace, known as ' Horrid '
Reason, the agent's son  youths who did not
dream of the honour of dancing with the county
princesses, and for whom a sufficient number of
each other's sisters and cousins had been duly
provided.

Cordelia, though a novice in society, and

disposed to make her own laws, yet observed
that when Mayne asked her to dance her
followers fell back respectfully. One with whom
she was about to stand up, murmured, like
Mr. Toots, that 'it was of no consequence,'
and effaced himself. Cordeha thought this was
only due to the natural superiority of everything
belonging to the Warren, and, pleased
at i\Iayne's cousinly treatment of her, went off
chattering gaily. After their dance he took
her to Mrs. Wastell, who had not seen her
since dinner. After sitting near her a little
while in the seats of honour, Cordelia remarked
that her next partner would never venture to
fetch her from there, and walked down the
ballroom to meet him under all the eyeglasses
of the august matrons.

Who is that girl ? ' asked Lady Isabel
Kingdon of Mayne, as Cordelia passed them.

She is my sister's cousin  my half-sister's,
that is  ]\Iiss Ashby. She is staying with us.
She is a child in most things, but she is fresh

caught from no bringing up at all. She is a
very jolly little thing, but she looks odd tonight.
That is a queer get-up ; Lettice ought
to have seen about it.'

Quite dreadful kind of girl, I should say ! '
said Lady Isabel, calmly.

Is she not the daughter of a man they call
Greeley Ashby ; and did he not run away with
her mother, uncommon pretty girl ? ' asked old
Sir William Boswell, who stood by.

Yes ; do you know him ? ' said Mayne.

Did once. Too shady a lot for me now.
By Jove ! young Wastell, that girl will want
looking after ! Comes of a bad stock, you know.
Don't go and marry her without a warrant.
Those things run in families ; bolting is in the
blood, and other things gambling, for one.'

Cannot they be trained out, if you begin
early ? ' asked Mr. Odiarne, as Mayne and his
partner moved away.

Don't know much about girls  never had
one,' replied Sir William. ' Don't suppose

they are any easier to train than horses. Horse
with a bad temper is worth the trouble if he is
all right otherwise. Girl has got good points,
but she will want a good deal of lunging to
bring her into form.'

I think I will try,' said the Vicar to himself.


Later in the evening, when Mrs. Wastell
asked for Cordeha, Mr. Odiarne volunteered to
look for her. He heard of her as having gone
towards a pavilion in the grounds, which had
been lighted and decorated as a place for
crater refreshments. Sounds of laughter and
song came far down the shrubbery-walk that
led to the spot. As he drew nearer, the song
became plain as an Italian street song, almost
too festive a strain, that the singer, our Cordelia,
had picked up from some Neapolitan
street musicians on the Eiviera. For the more
effective rendering of this choice bit, she was
standing on the end of a little balustrade which
enclosed the steps leading up to the pavilion,

and she was accompanying herself on a child's
tambourine which had been left there, and had,
indeed, suggested the performance. No other
ladies were then at the pavilion, nor were Timor
Toby visible ; Cordelia's applauding audience
consisted of four or five of the odd young men
aforesaid, some of whom were smoking, of
several servants and waiters, and of two old
gentlemen who had been all the evening
within easy distance of the refreshments.

Tra-la-la ' went the song, ' ting-a-ting-ting '
the tambourine, when Mr. Odiarne's tall
straight figure and quiet uplifted face came
within the circle of light from the pavilion
lamps. He did not look at all severe, for he
was smiling a little at a thought that had come
to him as he passed through the cool dusk
garden ; nor did he take in the details of the
scene before him very quickly ; but the effect of
him was magical. Not only on the young men,
who recovered themselves instantly from their
easy attitudes and late-in-the-evening demeanour

; but Cordelia, suddenly mute and with
cheeks hotly flaming, threw down her tambourine,
sprang from her pedestal, and made as if
she would have run away. His voice detained
her as effectually as if he had seized her.

I have come for you, Miss Ashby, so do
not be in a hurry, but walk back with me, if
you will so favour me.'

Xo answer ; but Cordelia stepped meekly
by his side, the change from the smell of wine
and tobacco to the fragrance of cedar and pine
not more complete than that of her behaviour.

Mrs. Wastell is going away ; you and
Lettice and I are told off with lier to the first
Warren carriage. Do you know that although
I have seen you several times I do not know
yet whether you are a child or a grown-up
young lady. I think I have been treating you
as a child and from Aunt Susan's point of
view, calling you Cordelia, as my cousins
do ; and yet to-night you look older, and of a
standing for more ceremony.'

VOL. I. N

No answer, and it is too dark to see lier
face ; but that drooping head suggests discouragement.


Your unusual name is pleasant in the
mouth, and as you are young enough for a
doubt I shall claim the benefit of it, and say
Cordelia " as often as I find it musical.'

Yes.'

Perhaps it was the duty of one of those
young men to escort you to the house, and I
have clumsily taken you from your partner ? '

Oh, no ; it is so much better to be with
you ! '

If I had known that I would have come
sooner,' he answered, laughing at her emphasis.

I  I am so ashamed  I ought not to have
been singing like that ; I did riot know it was
wrong till I saw you.'

Am I then so awful that folly dies at the
sight of me ? '

I never thought of it. Those fellows were
laughing, and their feeble minds are so soon

astonished. Aunt Susan would not have liked
it, would she ? '

Very likely not. I hardly know what is
thought becoming now for young ladies. Something
depends on whether we are to consider
you as a child, or as a responsible young
woman.'

I am seventeen and live months. Girls
do all sorts of things, and nobody minds ; but I
ought not to run rigs, because  I do not really
care for larks, and only take them because there
is nothing else yet ; but what I have come
for is to learn to be very good, the really best
kind of goodness. Will you teach me, Mr.
Odiarne ? Will you show me how ? I have
been thinking of it for a long time, and I have
quite made up my mind, but I do not know
the least thing about it  will you help me ? '

They had come now to the windows of the
drawing-room ; the clergyman looked at the
wild figure that turned round to him on the
step in the light that shone on her from

N 2

within ; he saw her strange dress, her rough
hair, her flushed face and eager eyes, and read
the strong appeal that entirely animated her as
she put up her hands and nearly, but not quite,
touched his arm, and repeated * Teach me to
be good.' He was deeply stirred, for his professional
instincts, very strong  for he was
clergyman to his finger-tips  his personal convictions,
which were stronger still, and strongest
of all, his kind heart, all drew him to this suppliant.
There was a doubt, it is true, caused by
the perception that even he could not escape, of
the incongruity of her appearance and conduct
with her aspirations ; but he was still more
conscious of a disinclination for the inevitable
boring and fuss that would come to him if he
undertook this task ; and as this was unworthy
and must be checked, he answered the more
readily 

My child, I will help you  if you will
remember that it is help only from a fellow-learner.'


Oh, thank you ! You have promised ; you
will not forget ! ' said Cordelia, in soft triumph,
and with a look of ecstasy. She went home
from her first ball in absorbed silence, saving
to herself, ' Xow I shall begin. It will be all
right ; now I shall begin.'

CHAPTER XI.

STUMBLING-blocks.

who will show me those delights on high ?

Echo . . .'L'
Thou, Echo, thou art mortal], all men know.

G. Herbert.

The next day Mrs. Wastell thought that interviews
on the subject of Cordeha would never
cease. Mayne was the first, begging that she
would keep her at the Warren a day or two
longer. ' We all like her, you know, and it
must be dull with Aunt Susan and the old
maids  besides, they will be glad of a little
peace.'

Mrs. Wastell fancied that her stepson was
not speaking all his thought, and her look
questioned him.

That is not all. I heard some fellows
speaking of her father with something a good

deal short of respect a ad esteem ; and perhaps
if the girl goes about a little with you and
Lettice, it will show that she is all right, and
that we take her on her own account.'

Thank you, Mayne. I am glad you told
me. Xo harm can come of having her here ;
but it would be greatly against my wish that
her father should darken doors of yours or
mine.'

He does not seem an oppressively loving
parent, and he will hardly affect this neighbourhood.
If he should turn up he must be
handed over to Aunt Susan. May I be thereto
see ! '

Lettice looked bright and fresh at breakfast,
and explained that she did not allow going
out in the evening to interfere with her duties
next day ; Tuesday was one of her school
mornings. Cordelia came down last, rather
pale, and surprised to find even the gentlemen
finishing their breakfast. 'I thought no one
came down to breakfast after a dance ; I only

came now because Lettice was sure to be up ;
and I met her going out.'

'You cannot do better than follow her
example in a good many things,' said Mrs.
Longley, tartly. 'How nice Lettice looked
last night, Mrs. Wastell, so ladylike and sweet.
Lettice has such nice manners, so quiet and
gentle ; there is nothing fast and vulgar about
her, and you never hear her talking loudly or
see her making herself conspicuous in any way.'

Here is some hot toast, Cordie. May I
cut you some ham, or is Sedley to be honoured
with your commands ? I am so glad you are
late ; Lettice is perfectly horrid the morning
after a ball,' said Mayne to his young guest,
whose colour was effectually restored by Mrs.
Longer's remarks.

Have a brandy-and-soda. Miss Ashby.
Wastell has recommended it to me ; it is my
belief that Sedley has had his in bed and Miss
Wastell hers overnight,' said Captain Longley,
who also wished to be kind.

'I was nine hours in my dress clothes,'
moaned Mr. Sedley ; ' how you ladies could
stand it in your tight  well  things, I cannot
tell.'

At least, Miss Ashby wore nothing tight,'
said Mrs. Longley, who did not join the laugh.

Mind you never do, Cordie, or you will
get a red nose,' said Mayne, making it worse
with Mrs. Longley.

I suppose you will have to speak to that
young lady presently, Mrs. Waste,' Mrs.
Longley began in the course of their morning
stroll. ' It is always a nuisance to have to
take out strange girls ; they are sure to vex
you in some way.'

I am not vexed with my young cousin ;
but I am vexed with myself for not making
sure that she had a suitable dress for last
night.'

But her goings on all the evening  making
an uproar at dinner, marching about independently,
and never coming near you ! You

really ought to know that my husband heard
she danced a hornpipe and sang to a lot of
tipsy young men and all the servants down by
the pavilion ! I know that is true, for I saw
Mr. Odiarne bringing her back.'

She is very young still, but she is not like
the young bear, for so many of her troubles in
the way of disadvantages are past that we may
hope not many more lie before her,' said
Mrs. Wastell, so gently that her gentleness was
a reproof. ' When you come down at Christmas
I hope you will find her quite toned down.
We all think there is much very good material
in her for the making of a noble woman. It is
a fine natural character.'

Mrs. Longley burned to suggest that Mr.
Wastell would be the most efficient tutor, and
seemed well inclined for the office ; but she was
awed. Her Harry was devoted to the Wastels,
but she did not share his feeling, being embarrassed
by a superiority that she had no desire
to imitate. She contented herself with a meaning

look at the portico where Cordeha stood inclose
conversation with Mayne.

You are not going away to-day,' he was saying.
' Aunt Susan is delighted to be rid of you,
and we are more delighted to keep you here.'

As I don't believe about Aunt Susan, I
can't believe about you. Do you know she
kissed me before I came away on Saturday,
and said " God bless you." No one ever said
that to me before.' Cordelia's eyes were moist
as she said this ; she did not guess that Mayne
felt a little pinch at his heart, and relieved it
by inwardly repeating Aunt Susan's benediction.


It is nonsense to talk of going to-day ; you
must stay.'

Must ? ' Cordelia threw back her head
and looked dangerous. Mayne remembered
the manner of her arrival at Ivy Cottage.

Stay to please us, Cordelia ; to please the
mother and Lettice, not to speak of me. You
know the mother insists on all the invitations

being mine, so I have the pleasure of asking
you.'

I am not sure about Lettice ; she is angry
with me. But I should like to please you and
my cousin, for I do not think you are saying it
only for pretty. Mayne, will you tell me something,
on your very faithful promise ? '

Yes ; what is it ? '

What did I do wrong last night. I know
I made an awful mull of it all. Lettice is
furious, and Mrs. Longley is like an angry
black pigeon this morning  poo-oo-oo, poor
Why are you not as tight and black as
I am, poo-oo-oo ? What was it ? '

If I tell you, and you are angry with me,
I shall think you shabby.'

I am no sneak  go on.'

Well, you know, you are not quite like the
girls about here  and though it is not your
fault '

It makes people lift up their eyebrows 
so  and look at me up and down as you look

at a horse that some one else has bought. And
you would rather they did not, when I am in
your crowd ? '

I am not too selfish about it, Cordie. I
think you are much too nice a girl for any one
to lift eyebrows at. Another time we must
contrive that you do not dance with all the
Maybury cads ; but you need not trouble yourself
about that, for they will not have another
chance.'

Were they cads ? I am afraid I do not
know many nice men ; they were as good as
most of the Colonel's little lot; and, of course,
I did not expect them to be like you.' This
compliment was said with an air of sorrowful
gravity that quite prevented Mayne from
showing that he appreciated it. Then, with
a sudden enlightenment, she said, ' You do not
know the worst thing I did last night ? '

The bull's eye in Miss Carhng's champagne,
you bad child ? '

That was nothing ! but down at that

drinking-place I found a tambourine, and one
of the cads asked me if I could sing  so I
jumped on a post, and sang " Carling." '

And I was not there to see I '

Worse than that happened. Mr. Odiarne !
He came up with that look of his  you know,
up above everything. I felt something like bad
when I saw him. Once I did a worse thing than
that, and on purpose, and I was marched back
in the dark and scolded all the way; but I was
not nearly so cut up. He did not scold one
word ; he hardly knew what I had been upto,
and. of course I felt all the greater wretch.'

 What did you say to him ? ' asked Mayne,
yielding to the vice of curiosity.

I asked him if he would teach me to be
very good. He actually said he would, and
never laughed at me. I have always wanted
to go in for that kind of thing ; now I can begin
at last ! That is why I want to go back to Ivy
Cottage.'

No one can help you better than Philip ;

but you will not lose time by staying here this
week. We have a garden-party tomorrow,
and he will most likely come up ; only you
know you cannot hold high talk over the tea
and tennis-balls.'

I shall give up all those things.'

Not at Philip's bidding, since he takes
most of his own recreation that way. Xow, go
and make it up with Lettice ; I must be off to
the workhouse.'

Lettice had consulted her mother in dire
perplexity. The difficulty must be unusual
that made Lettice consult her mother ; though
she loved her heartily, and was a fairly dutiful
daughter to her, she was not the first of her
admirers. ' Mother is so sentimental, and has
so many considerations ; she never goes straight
at a thing,' was her verdict ; and she could not
understand the influence Mrs. Wastell exerted.

What am I to do with Cordeha, mother ?
She is so slippery and contradictory that I do
not know what to make of her. She is always

talking of being good, till I really thought she
meant it. On Sunday, particularly, when she
wished to come to school with me, and seemed
to take to it. I saw her listening with all her
might in church.'

So did I. Poor child, I prayed for her
then. When we think of the hopelessness of
her surroundings hitherto, it seems as if she
were specially led towards a higher life ;
we are too apt to think it a mere result of
training.'

But can she be in earnest ? Just look at
her behaviour since ! I tried to talk seriously
to her after that, but she slipped away from meas
usual ; so I thought perhaps Philip might suit
her better, and asked him to see to her ; then,
the very next night, she behaves in such a way !
Philip will think 1 am a proper goose.'

And you can never bear to be thought
mistaken ; but I do not think you are far wrong
this time.'

But last night, mother ! She was disgraceful

! I was so ashamed of her ; and Mayne had
to dance with her ! '

She was trying, certainly ; but a good deal
can easily be mended, and a good deal more
will mend itself. It is not in the power of a
girl like that to disgrace your brother, nor you
either. For her mother's sake, or rather for
mine, I must ask you to be patient with her.
Do not try too hard to do her good yourself,
but just be friendly and companionable. I am
asking it as a favour, lattice.'

Oh, don't make so much of it as that,
mother ! She must behave decently, and I will
try her again.'

The two girls settled their difference ;
Lettice being again surprised by Cordelia's
change of tone, and receiving her penitence
with srreat kindness. She even offered further
guidance, which Cordelia again declined.

At the Warren garden-party Cordelia was
almost too exemplary  eschewing the society
of the young and frivolous, and devoting herself

VOL. I.

to Aunt Susan, who had come up for this her
one gaiety, and sat on the terrace, looking Kean
old fairy, with her bright eyes and curly
hair, with her crutch-handled stick and black
satin cloak. Jock Somers was particularly
anxious to make up for lost time in his acquaintance
with Cordelia ; but he was disappointed,
for Tim and Toby had given a vivid sketch of
the fun to be got out of her, and the decorous
figure in dark blue and a hat that Lettice had
perhaps too vigorously reformed, did little to
recall the gay and festive young person of
yesternight.

If you won't play tennis, come and have a
shy at " Aunt Sally." '

Aunt Susan is my only joy ! '

She does not want you,' said Jock ; ' don't
you see she is carrying on with my father. She
is the only person here who was not at our 
the other day, and so she is very interesting
to the dear old boy, for he can fully describe it
to her.'

This was so obvious that Cordelia went to
the seats overlooking the tennis-court, whither
Jock followed. ' I am afraid you find this sort
of thing desperately slow ; but in the country,
you know, we cannot get up a dance, or theatricals,
or any kind of lark more than once in
three months.'

Oh, no ! that is not why I cannot play
these games. I am going to do something
different, and I shall give up jolly dogs and
all sorts of sprees.'

Oh, I say. Miss Ashby ! Are you going
into a convent, or  or something of that sort ? '

I do not know. I may have to do it ; but
good people do not always.'

I should think not ! Lettice is the best
girl I know, and she does not look like a convent,
does she ? '

Not just now.' Lettice was making a
vigorous rally at tennis against a tough opponent,
and both Cordelia and Jock paused to
admire and then applaud her.


Now, Miss Ashby, you agree it is possible
to be good and play tennis too ? '

Of course it is ; did I say it was not, you
particularly stupid young man ? * and Cordelia
told him about the project for a new tennis-lawn,
and the way in which Mayne and Lettice
gave it up. She was rather disappointed that
Jock took it as a matter of course.

A little later, Mr. Odiarne  a tall black
figure between the shorter white ones of Mayne
and Tim Somers  came to where Cordelia was
sitting, on a grassy bank, a little apart from the
rest. She received them with a fine red blush,
that Tim, sage youth, thought must be on
Mayne's account. Mayne thought it proceeded
from twinges of conscience at sight of Tim. Mr.
Odiarne did not notice it at all ; he was so much
away from and above the region of small things
that his observation was not very quick. Finding
that Cordelia would not play tennis, Mayne
carried off Tim and left her to the Vicar.

'Well, Cordelia, what are your morning

thoughts ? Do you still hold me to my promise
of the other night ? '

Cordelia's face glowed assent, but she said
nothing. Mr. Odiarne sat down by her on the
bank.

I should laugh at one of my curates if
he were to begin professionally on a young
lady at a garden-party ; but I am old enough
for exceptions, and there is no time like the
present. Lettice would approve of that sentiment.'


Yes, she always begins at once.'
Ah ! not many people have such a well-regulated
mind as Lettice, or, if they begin
with it, they do not keep it to double her age.
Tell me something of your history  what you
know, what you like, and what you want to
know.'

I have learnt very nearly nothing.'
Whose fault has that been  yours ? '
Cordelia told her little tale of neglect and
loneliness, of her desultory life and utter

lack of training and sweet influences, not
knowing how pathetic it seemed to her
hearer.

Now tell me what and whom you like.
I want to know the favourable side of you.'

I love Aunt Susan dearly, and]\irs. Waste
I like Mayne and Lettice ; Miss Carling, too,
a little, though she is rather an odd bird.'

That is good, especially Aunt Susan.
Any one would like the others, but she is of the
nature of salt. A child or a foolish person
might find the taste of her a little sharp ; but
she is one of the indispensable, the savour of
all things. But who were your friends before
you came here ? '

I care very much for Fero, my sister
Sophy's boy. He is not like her, but such a
daring ! I like George Kingdon too, one
of the Mentone crowd ; he is a baddish lot, I
am afraid, but he is always chummy with me.
Soeur Lucie is the person I have always
thought most of. Do you think it is wicked

to love a Romanist? She is quite too awfully
good, and I want to be like her, if you can
show me how.' And Cordelia, warming into
slang, told her new friend of the saint-like
sister who had influenced her so strongly.
Then a few more questions sounded the depth
of her own personal negligence and ignorances,
told with a freedom and candour to
which Mr. Odiarne was unaccustomed.

In a few days I will give you some books,
and something to learn by heart ; I am going
to treat you as a child, a little step backward
will not hurt you. You had better attend a
class that Mr. Knox holds for girls.'

I would rather you taught me.'

I am going to teach you  a little submission.'


To learn as you think fit ? Well  yes, I
will do it. When am I to begin ? '

I will give you one thing to begin on at
once, as I see you wish that. It is to speak
always respectfully of your father.'

'How can I if I do not respect him,
and how can I respect him if he is an
old '

Hush ! ' Mr. Odiarne looked so stern that
his pupil felt more awe than she had experienced
before human being up to that hour.
Of course she admired him in proportion, and
listened reverently to his very short enforcement
of the principle of the fifth commandment,
which, as the first moral lesson she had
ever set herself seriously to apply, opened to
her the enormous, the life-long difficulty of the
step that lies between knowing and doing.

Thank you. Cousin Philip ; you are the
very best man in the world ! * whispered Lettice,
when they were all standing about the tea-table,
and Cordeha was carrying queen cakes
to Aunt Susan.

Very much so, indeed,* answered the Yicar,
grimly ; ' and your cousin Cordelia is the best
young woman in the world ; so I beg that you
will treat her as such, and neither try to teach

her anything, nor let her think herself interestingly
wicked.'

Very well ; but you had better warn
Mayne too about the last, for that is just what
he thinks her,' returned Lattice, with a grain
of malice, and not sorry to see the Vicar look
discomfited.

CHAPTEE XII.

MORE ZEAL THAN DISCRETION.

Ye holy men, so earnest in your care,
Of your own mighty instruments beware !

Wordsworth.

Dearest, sweetest, loveliest Aunt Susan !
how perfectly delicious it is to come back to
you and to Ivy Cottage, and to the old maids
and home ! I must call it home ; you don't
mind, do you ? And oh. Aunt Susan I such a
beautiful thing has happened to me, and I am
to have my great wish ! '

Cordelia paused, not from want of words,
but to give her news due effect. Miss Hooper
settled her cap, recovered her newspaper, and
pretended to be very much fussed by her great-niece's
sudden entrance. ' My dear ! we did
not know you were coming this afternoon.
Tell French at once, so that there may be

cakes for tea ; and stop, my dear, Andrew will
take your box upstairs.'

Oh, my box ! I dare say it will come
when they send for the second post. Never
mind that, my dearest dear. I want to tell
you my good news ! '

Aunt Susan looked at her anxiously. She
was not such a child after all ; she seemed to
have grown older in these last ten days ; and
you can never depend on young men, even
such as Mayne ; and how very awkward it
would be if there should be anything  Colonel
Ashby such a very undesirable connection!
The child seemed quite excited. Miss Hooper's
heart stood still as Cornea went on, with one
of her bicfcrest blushes too.

Only think what a splendid thing for me !
What I have been longing, and trying, and
scheming for, and now it seems too good to be
true ! Mr. Odiarne, his very own self, is going
to teach me to be good  very good ; of the
same kind of goodness as his own ! Is it not

frightfully good of him, when I have just been
running such rigs ? '

Is that all, my dear ? You quite frightened
me. I am glad to hear it ; and it is very kind
of the Vicar. But you must not be a charge
on his time ; you know he has all the parish to
teach.'

Yes, but I am to learn something special.
I think it is called the higher Hfe.'

If you mean a Christian life, nothing can
be higher than that; and he wishes all his
people to lead it.' Aunt Susan spoke tartly.

And do they ? '

If they do not, there is no excuse for
them. No one in Maybury can plead that
they have not both teaching and example.*

But are they better ? '

Indeed I think so. A great many are
following his lead, and the young people are
especially touched ; but Mr. Odiarne himself is
always anxious that we should not try to count
converts, to separate wheat from tares, or to

estimate what is necessarily unseen by line and
rule. I can say for myself that I have learned
much from this young man, although I thought
I knew all about it before he was born

Do you call Mr. Odiarne a young man ? '

He is not much more than forty-five. That
is young in my old eyes.'

'Forty! that is quite old. I am glad of
that, for I do not think young men can teach
one, do you ? '

They always think they can , so perhaps
they are right sometimes.'

Cordelia turned over her new leaf with a
good deal of rustle and flutter. She fairly
chattered about 'Mi. Odiarne, his likes and dislikes,
his goings and comings, his sermons, and
even his lessons to her. Aunt Susan rather
enjoyed hearing all this, and did not check
her. Lettice was contemptuous, and set her
cousin down for a fool, and Cordelia woidd not
take advice from her in consequence. Then
Mrs. Wastell interfered, and Cordelia promised

to obey, but could not understand, and it was
not advisable to damp her by telling her that
she was unduly and unwholesomely excited.

You love all sorts of goodness and of
good people, and you often speak of these
things,' she said one day, when Mrs. Wastell
was trying to tone her down a little.

Yes ; but I do not speak at all times nor to
every one. Then I am so much older than
you are, graver too, as becomes my years and
what has come to pass in them. I am more
established, as it were, and my surroundings
are oftener in tune with high subjects than
yours can be. I do not sit on the hall table
in a Tam-o'-Shanter cap to-day to explain the
views on baptismal regeneration that I learnt
yesterday, as I saw some one doing this morning.
My friends are older than yours, and
many of them think with me. If you listen a
little you will find that we indulge in these
topics rarely, and only when we are sure of
being all of one mind on great matters. You

made me very hot the other day at kmcheon
by talking to Mr. Merridevv about instantaneous
conversion when Mr. Stepney was there, who
calls himself an agnostic. Xow Mr. Stepney
is a thoughtful person whom I much respect,
and think very much better than his opinions.
We often have a little discussion on them when
no one is listening, and he is always very
careful not to drop a word that may offend
me. Judge of my feelings when I heard you
making yourself ridiculous on the gravest
matters, of which you cannot possibly understand
all the bearings.'

I am sorry, cousin. I saw Mr. Merridew
did not like it ; but I thought he was ashamed
of goodness and of being a parson.'

Not he ! He was ashamed of your want
of tact, and afterwards begged my pardon for
your fault.'

Did he ? How first-rate of him ; he is
not half bad I But, cousin, I often hear you
and Aunt Susan and Mr. Diane say things

that make one see and think of the very best
things.'

'Do you? I am glad of that. My aunt
is an old-fashioned Christian, of a pattern that
is often thought cold and hard, severely respectable,
and wanting in enthusiasm and sympathy,
therefore often failing to exert a wide influence ;
but she has all the virtues of her school, and
few of its failings. She is so clear and upright,
as well as so kindly, that she is a tower of
strength to those who do not find her too
rugged and grim.'

And you, cousin ? '

I humbly trust that I have the root of the
matter ; but I am like a climbing plant, with
little strength of my own, and I lean on anyone
who has more firmness than I have. My
way is to sentimentalise too much, to lean too
much to the side of feeling, to over-refine, and
so lose the clearness and honesty of mind and
soul that, next to a hearty desire for goodness,
are perhaps the most essential to real progress.'

But is not speaking out the most honest
way? And how is one to learn and to understand
people if one does not talk of these
things ? '

In one way, the way of observation, you
can learn from every one ; but observation
means silence. As to words, it is surprising
how few people teach one anything directly.
Then you know these matters are the very core
of the heart ; very few like to speak of them at
all ; there is a feeling that there is a lack of
modesty and reserve in proclaiming the deep
and secret workings of God in the soul before
the multitude ; it is the grace of spiritual shyness.
I should greatly doubt any older person
whom I saw to be without it. And for you, I
think it will develop as you understand better.
Philip Odiarne is an appointed teacher ; yet
how cautious he is in his dealing with deep
subjects ! '

One cannot imagine him less than perfection
! '

VOL I. P

He would not say so ; and though he has
his weaknesses, it is not necessary for you to
look for them. He has the gift of a singularly
pure and noble nature. This is, as it were, a
vantage ground for him ; he is called, in an
especial manner, to be a saint ; and it seems to
be required of him that he should attain to
lofty heights of goodness, and raise others with
him. He impressed me in this way when I
first knew him ; yet I can see  feel, rather 
that he has advanced much in these fifteen
years. His spiritual life has become both
deeper and higher.'

Fifteen years ! Has it taken him so long
to be so good ? '

Longer than that ; more than forty. He
has from his baptism lived the rest of his fife
according to that beginning. What we see is
the growth in grace, "shining ever more
unto the perfect day." Fifteen years is as
nothing in such a life  a life that is not mortal,
but immortal ; it takes long enough to understand

it from the outside, to see it in all its
bearings.'

You say that nature is a gift. Do you
mean that some people are born with it, a
fay gift of goodness, so that they cannot
help it ? '

'It is God's gift, most truly, and a very
rare and precious one. Some people do seem,
as you say, born with it ; the qualities are in
some measure hereditary, and it is part of the
blessing on the children of the righteous.
Colonel Odiarne, Philip's father, an excellent
officer, who distinguished himself in active service
in India, was a man who exerted a strong
influence for good in his regiment, at a time
when to lead a Christian life under such circumstances
was to suffer a very real persecution.'

There would have been a chance for me
if I had been the daughter of that Colonel,'
said Cornea, nth a sigh, which made Mrs.
Wastell wish she had not taken her moralising
quite so far.

p 2

We are speaking of an especial and singular
gift, you know. If our talents are but two,
or one, they must be used.'

I mean to be something very special. It
will be all the harder if it is not in me, as it
is in Soeur Lucie and Mr. Odiarne.'

Cordelia took some warning about promiscuous
talking ; but she did not yet, nor all at
once, attain the grace of spiritual modesty and
reserve, not until she began to feel the real
stress of the spiritual conflict for which as yet
she was only storing the weapons.

Mr. Odiarne did not bestow much time on
his pupil, but he gave her some books and
directions for studying them, with some instruction
and advice as to private devotion, and he
put her in the way of learning what was taught
in the Maybury Sunday schools to the elder
children. She would have thriven better on
the lessons to the little ones, so destitute was
she of the usual teaching ; but her good will to
learn stood her in good stead, and Mr. Odiarne,

though he might only talk to her for a few
minutes at long intervals, allowed her to feel
that she was his own pupil and special care.
No more than this was needed to keep her
constantly eager, and at the fill stretch of her
powers. He was amazed at her capacity for
learning, and refreshed and encouraged by her
intense devotion to her subject, so different
from the childish, unwilling, or indifferent
minds that formed so large a proportion of
those he had to teach. This made her a most
attractive pupil, and her master built up a fair
scheme of rapid and noble development for
this fresh and ready hearer, who seemed to
present no opposing force to the pure and
exalted conception of Christianity that he
strove to put before her. Insensibly led by
her untiring attention and ready comprehension,
he went on from the truths and doctrines
to his own meditations and reflections on them,
and would try the effect of some personal view,
some new thought, some private speculation,

upon her receptive mind. It seemed to matter
little what he said, in one way, for Cordeha
drank in everything, classic or original, with
the same avidity and perfect faith in him,
though she constantly disregarded his warnings
as to what might not be filly thought out,
or a matter on which there were grave
differences of opinion, or a thought that had
only crossed his mind at the moment of
speaking.

Finding that Cordeha's ignorance of the
letter of Scripture greatly impeded her understanding
of his illustrations, the Yicar begged
her to attend a Bible class for young women,
held weekly by the senior curate, Mr. Knox.
Here she was not exemplary ; she made light
of Mr. Knox, chiefly because he was not Mr.
Odiarne ; he had a small rasping voice, and a
dry manner, which she would not forgive, even
when she began to share the interest his other
pupils found in their work.

What have you been teaching Miss Ashby

Oil the theory of prophecy ? ' asked i\Ir. Knox
of his chief.

I ? nothing ; not much at least. Why do
you ask ? '

She said something so odd yesterday about
the visions of Ezekiel, I coukl not tell what
she was driving at ; but she quoted you with
much confidence, and I suppose she had taken
hold of something you said wrong way first 
women always do,' said the much tried little
man.

Does she ask questions ? ' inquired the
Yicar, who was at one with him as touching
women in general.

I allow questions at the end of the lecture
only, otherwise I cannot keep these young
persons at all to the point ; allow one to speak,
and the conversation immediately becomes
general. Miss Ashby does not so much ask
questions, as give us all instruction in your
name. She said something about the eagles
and the vine, and the highest branch. I think

it was to the effect that some people were the
favoured ones, the higher branches, and so
more acceptable. I confess I do not see all the
bearings of the passage myself, and I did not
attempt to answer her.'

I think I was building up a theory of
spiritual aspiration, and of the glorious ambition
of those who would win a special crown, and
press forward to the farthest mark.'

Is that milk for babes ? '

I hardly look on her as such ; she is
capable of receiving a great deal,' said the
Vicar, with a shade of apology in his tone.

She does not yet thoroughly know the
Catechism.'

Very likely, she does not submit herself to
her spiritual pastors. However, she can apprehend
the truths without the form of words.'

The form of words is a very serviceable
anchor : I have bidden her learn her " duty to
her neighbour," as well as the kings of Israel
and Judah.'

Very good. You are a better teacher of
youth than I am, Knox.'

Not so. You are professor in a higher
school than I ; but in this case your disciple has
not first graduated in the lower one, as is the
wholesome custom.'

About this time, Cordelia wrote a letter so
rare an occurrence, that Miss Hooper, seeing
her busy with pen and ink, looking hot, and
with her hair rumpled, asked if she were writing
to her father.

Oh no, he knows where I am, and does
not want reminding of me. I am writing to
George Kingdon. Do not you think it is a
pity to put in commas, they spoil the effect if
you get them in the wrong places ? '

But you must learn to put them in the
right places ; it is a mark of a gentlewoman
that her letter is rightly punctuated.'

George thinks me a cad, to begin with, and
I don't believe he knows much about stops
himself.'

Is it necessary to write to sucti a person ? '

Yes ; he is rather a shady lot, but he is a
gentleman, and thinks it very poor form not to
keep promises.'

'My dear! can you have anything to say
to make it needful to write to a doubtful character
? '

It is all right, Aunt Susan. I am only
telling him what a good thing it is for me to
have hopped across Mr. Odiarne.'

Miss Hooper was divided between her duty
as in charge of her niece and her delicate feelings
about other people's letters. As she pondered,
Cordelia came to an end, with only one more
difficulty.

Ought I to say " yours sincerely " or
"truly?'

As you write to a gentleman, " truly " will
be better, I think.'

Easier to spell, that decides it ! ' and Cordelia
read over her letter with modest satisfaction.


'Dear George,  I promised to tell you
Ashen I found any one to teach me how to be
very good. So here I am. It is Mr. Odiarne,
the Vicar here ; he is quite tremendously good
the best man I ever met  bar none. There
is no question of laughing at or chaffing him, I
can tell you. I hope soon to be very religious,
and wish you would learn the same  there is
nothing like it, as I told you. The people here
are all good, and very jolly too.
Yours truly,

'Cordelia Ashby.'

Miss Hooper's cogitations led her to propose
that Cordelia should have a morning governess
for a few weeks. She propounded the plan
diffidently.

Will she teach me about the commas, and
the meaning of words in the Bible, or will she
bother with German declensions and the history
of British India ? ' asked Cordelia, cautiously.

'She shall teach you the things in which

you feel most deficient. I hardly know what is
taught now. I learnt grammar and geography,
ciphering and the use of the globes ; your
mother learnt arithmetic and Italian and
chemistry ; Lettice learnt mathematics and
physiology and German and Latin.'

Oh dear, I shall never rise to that. Had I
not better learn reading and writing, and all the
little things that everybody knows ? '

Yes, indeed, my dear. Miss Spenser, who
has been a governess and is a superior young
person, is obliged now to live with her mother,
who thinks herself a great invalid ; I do not
know what her complaint is, but she requires
attention. We will enquire about Miss Spenser
tomorrow.*

So Cordelia spent the long summer mornings
in patching up her rickety education. The
restraint galled her, but she submitted bravely
for the most part, only taking an occasional
break out. Mrs. Wastell advised an easy rule,
lessons in the garden, a good deal of talking, or

conversation lessons, as Miss Spenser preferred
to call them, and by a happy hit, some historical
novels  Scott, James, Buller, and Miss
Yonge  with all the educational side-lights to
be thrown on them by maps and dictionaries.
Miss Spenser proved sensible ; but she chiefly
gained her pupil's respect by confessing herself
an ardent admirer and disciple of Mr. Odiarne,
and her attention by going over his lectures
and sermons so as to teach Cordelia the important
lessons of how to learn and how to
listen.

CHAPTER XIII.

A LOOK BACKWARD.

Thou stances in the rising sun,
And in the setting thou art fair.

Tennyson.

One morning Mr. Odiarne was walking to the
Uplands on some pastoral business. His passage
through the town was constantly interrupt d ;
a word from the doctor about a patient,
then a great many from a district visitor
about a naughty girl. Then a woman  her
sister's husband had beaten his wife, and wasn't
drunk either  would the Vicar see about it ?
Then his eye fell on a small girl ; being a practised
eye, it distinguished her from seven or
eight other small girls with whom she was importantly
marching home from the infant school.
'Amelia Barnes, why does not your sister
come to school now ? '

Amelia's fat face looked very wise ; being a
trained infant, she spoke up distinctly from the
height of the Vicar's knee 

She ain't coming to big school no more.
She goes to Methodist.'

Indeed ! And does she like that ? '

Oh-h, yes. She likes it ; they give her
two apples every day, and sixpence for going ! '
 Next came an old woman in great grief.

Pig toyed last night. Took bad, he was.
We fetched him in to the fire and wrapped him
up in the blanket ; but 'wasn't no use, he
wouldn't stop ! '

Of another old woman Mr. Odiarne asked
after her son who had gone for a soldier.

He be getting along very well, thank you,
sir. He be got among the " awls " ; he be
either a general or a corporal, I don't rightly
know which, but it be among the " awls." '

The day was very hot, and, coming out of
the town, the Vicar kept under the shadow of
the wall, topped by a hedge, that bounded Miss

Hooper's garden. In this hedge grew a far-spreading
yew-tree, very accessible from the
garden side, but some height above the green
border of the highway. There was a great
rustle and creak in this tree as he came near,
and Cordelia Ashby swung herself down from
the branches just before him.

I have startled you, Mr. Odiarne ! You
did not know I could get through this tree ! '

I did not know that you would ; and I did
not know you wore red stockings.'

Cordelia's face matched her stockings. 'I
am always doing wrong things, and only finding
them out when you look at me. I saw you
coming, and thought I would ask you about the
sins of the fathers being; visited on the children.
What does it mean ? '

George Luck got drunk and fell over the
cradle ; the baby was hurt and will always be
lame.'

Poor baby ! What a shame ! I am the
worse for the Colonel's little ways, and because

he spends the money on himself that ought
to have gone for my schooling. Is that what
you want to say ? '

AVhat is Miss Spenser doing ? '

Eating raspberries, finding the places in
the map of Spain that are mentioned in the
Conquest of Granada," and wondering what
has become of me.'

Now I am going to speak very plainly to
you ; and as Miss Spenser has the raspberries, you
may walk up the hill with me. You remember
what I said to you about honouring your father
and mother? '

Yes. I have done as you told me about
him  the prayers. How surprised he would be
if he knew ! It is no trouble to honour poor
mamma in my thoughts. I always think of her
as so beautiful and unhappy.'

Her story is a very sad one ; and, though it
must give you pain, I think it will be good for
you to hear it. Aunt Susan gave me leave,
and you can ask her for the details. She was,

VOL. I. Q

as you say, very beautiful ; and she was unhappy,
for she spoilt her own life. She had a great
power of attracting strong love ; her father
must have idolised her ; Aunt Susan and Mrs.
Wastell deeply love her still, and they love you
for her sake  there you get the benefit of her
best and most lovable qualities. But there is
another side  she was not dutiful, she did not
honour her father, nor trust him ; possibly she
only found out too late how much she loved
him. Cordelia, she broke his heart by leaving
her home secretly and running away to marry
your father ! '

Oh, Mr. Odiarne ! '

It was a severe blow. Cordelia blushed
and gasped as she looked blankly at the kind
face of her friend, and, reading many unsaid
things there, she looked down blushing again,
and two large tears rolled down her cheeks for
the pity of it, of that long ago sin.

'It must be pain to you, poor child. I
\\nshed you to be told sooner, for you were sure

99'

to hear it some day. You know I would not
wilfully grieve you,' said the Vicar, very gently,
and Cordelia presently looked up again ; nothing
could be too grievous when he seemed grieved
for her and spoke with such kindness ; he had
something to say too, and she must listen.
Xow, think of this : every wilful lawless thing
you do, every carelessness of speech or behaviour,
reflects back on your mother as well as on your
father. Here are people to say, " That was her
mother's spirit," and to recollect her conduct
with more harshness than they otherwise would.
On the other hand, if you are dutiful and
gentle, a good woman and a gentlewoman,
there are others, far better and more worthy of
being heeded, who will say, '' Her mother was
very sweet ; she is like her, and reminds us of
all the best of her." More than this  your
shortcomings may be part of her punishment ;
they certainly would have been had she lived 
or rather, she now sees her own in the light of
eternity, she measures them by the height and
Q 2

depth and agony of her forgiveness. And you,
her daughter, you must hive with both sides of
her example before you, yet referring all to the
great Example.'

Cordeha did not speak, but she looked her
acceptance of this, and Mr. Odiarne went on :
See now, here, in her own place, you more
than any one may honour her memory ; and if
you begin to do that rightly, you will learn
how to forgive and honour your father too. It
is hard for you, but it must be done. Begin
with a little outward sign  do not call him
"the Colonel" any more; say "my father";
then you must needs remember the Father of
Whom both you and he are erring children.'

He stopped and bade her good-bye, suggesting
an excuse to Miss Spenser. Cordelia
dashed down the hill and into her own room.
Miss Spenser did not see her eccentric pupil at
all that day ; on the next, ' Mr. Odiarne was
talking to me,' was ample reason for the defection,
and from that time the governess found

her, if not always docile and attentive, at least
seriously anxious to be so.

Miss Hooper believed herself to spend
Sunday in extreme quiet and repose. Eeally, it
was the busiest day of her week. She wore her
best gown, which was in itself exciting ; she
drove with much state and ceremony to May-bury
Church, where, though the seats were
strictly free and unappropriated, she would
have been much surprised to miss her usual
chair. The Yicar and churchwardens winked
at this indulgence, declaring that for no one but
Miss Hooper would other people submit to the
monopoly.

To Cordeha these Sundays became a deep
excitement. She was learning to follow the
services, and to fix her unaccustomed attention,
enlarging her capacity for devotion by slow
degrees. Meanings began to unfold for her
here and there, and her brioiit intelligence
applied well what was taught her ; but when it
was a question of matters in which ]mr. Odiarne

had personally instructed her, she fastened on
them eagerly, with a flash of her spirit and a
glow of her heart that seemed to burn them in.
Surely it was the pure love of God that made
her feel thus  so lifted out of herself, so
radiantly happy in all good things ? When the
Vicar preached she sat in rapt attention, her
whole soul bent to understand ; and when he,
rising beyond eloquence, poured out his soul in
warm inspiration, she was the first to feel it, to
sit with bowed head and fast-dropping tears ; or,
kindling quick at his enthusiasm, her hot young
heart would burn within her, she knew not
why ; nor did she think it strange or perilous
that only one voice would move her so, that
only one utterance she received as a real message
to herself  for was not this her chosen
teacher ?

There was a custom at Maybury that on
Sundays the clergyman who went to the Uplands
for morning service came afterwards to Ivy
Cottage for luncheon, saving time and walking

before he went to another outlying hamlet.
Aunt Susan always apologised for the plain
meal that such old-fashioned people as herself
thought befitting the day of rest to the manservant
and the maid-servant, and no one
thought it advisable to point out that it was
the daintiest meal of the week. Mr. Merridew,
the junior curate, much appreciated Cordelia,
who in turn liked him ; he was a cheery boyish
creature, hearty both at work and play, and
giving good promise for the future in his present
rather raw development. He was a
little afraid of Aunt Susan, who could not forgive
Ms youth nor forget his great-uncles 
venerable friends of hers who died of old age
before their great-nephew was born. He found
Cordelia a welcome relief from the tete-astute
luncheons, and was extremely disconcerted
when Miss Hooper saw this, and told him so asa
mere matter of observation. Mr. Knox was
much more staid and dry ; he was excellent,
but entirely professional. ' It is lucky that he

chiefly comes on Sundays ; I should not know
what to say to him on a week-day,' said Aunt
Susan. As it was, they talked of Church and
Dissent, old women and temperance societies.
There was high fete at Ivy Cottage when the '
Vicar came ; but this was rare.

A Sunday seldom passed without a visit
from some of the Warren party on their way to
or from May bury Church. Mrs. Wastell would
rest and talk, while Lettice walked about the
garden with Cordelia, and Mayne inspected the
pigs and the pony, and prescribed for Aunt
Susan's fruit and rose trees. It happened about
the time of Cordelia's receiving the above lecture
that Mayne Wastell was away from home for a
fortnight, ' between hay and harvest,' as he
said in his character of British farmer, and also
that he had not met Cordelia for some days
after his return. Coming in alone one Sunday
to the Ivy Cottage luncheon, he watched
Cordelia and Mr. Merridew while he talked to
Aunt Susan ; and afterwards going with the

younger lady to the kitchen garden, he observed,
' So they have tamed you, Cordeha?'
Mr. Odiarne was not the only person who
found Miss Ashby's Christian name pleasant on
the tongue.

They are trying ; and so am I. Do you
think I get on ? '

Only too fast. There is a change in you,
my young friend. You have a caught and
combed look ; your gown is the most correct
and fashionable imitation of a bottle ; and you
have done something to your hair, or is it a
wig? '

A wig ; an old one of Mrs. Peabody's.'

I thought bay was her colour. But this
is not all ; why is this gentle melancholy, this
subdued light, this touching dignity ? Above
all, where are the picturesque expressions ? I
have not heard one all the morning.'

I am trying to leave off. Is it slang to
say a thing is a rummy go, when it is  well,
very rummy, you know ? '

Some people would think so. So much
depends on whom you speak to. I would not,
if I were you, say it to Lady Somers ; Merridew
might forgive you. It would sound very stuck-up
if you always spoke like a book ; only cads,
prigs, and cultured Americans do that  people
whose gentility is so nicely balanced that it
would be overset by a word not according to
Cocker. I do not approve of the girl who said
to her mother, " Now, old gal, let's be toddling ; "
but if she had said " My honoured parent, my
mind misgives me lest further delay should
cause inconvenience," I should not like her
much better.'

* You do not help me. I am trying so
hard to get up a little behaviour, but you like
to be able to laugh at me for being outrageous.'


Not quite such a brute as that,' said
Mayne, shortly, and with a flash that let Cordelia
into secrets. This was not a man after
George Kingdon's pattern, caring not what was

thought of him ; he was incapable of the meanness,
and did not like to be accused of it. He
went on in a different tone. ' What humbug
it is, trying to make you flat and prim, and
all sorts of things that are not the least in your
style.'

I am " thoroughly bad style," you know.'

That is Mrs. Longley ; never mind her.
Are they not bearing too hard on you, Cordie ;
too much curb ? You might tell me.'

Cordelia looked the other way, and her
voice shook a little as she began, ' Don't you
like me in this gown ; it is new, and very much
the thing ; now you say it  it is like a bottle,'
and she considered gravely the smooth dark-green
surface.

I do not think much of the gown, one
way or other, I like you in it immensely ; it
is a pity there is not a button-hole somewhere
about it, this yellowish rose would
make a good arrangement ; it is " Marie van
Houtte." '

Cordelia put out her hand for the rose, and
pinned it under her chin.

Did you ever try to be very good, Mayne?
I thought it would be as easy as fun, when
once I had made up my mind to go in for it ;
I meant it, and thought I could do as I please ;
it is very strange that one cannot. What do
you make of it ? '

Not much. The fact is, that it is collar
work all the way, and one must put one's heart
into it, like a willing horse. I try after a
fashion, for I know well enough that down hill
leads to the deuce. You are good for a strong
pull, Cordie, and  well, the coach is never quite
too heavy.'

Mayne coloured, even through his summer
complexion ; Cordelia was beginning to know
what it was to be shy, but she was hardly
able to appreciate what this confession cost her
friend.

I should scorn to mind about giving up
pleasant things  dancing, nice clothes, good-treat,

and even jokes ; but Mr. Odiarne does not
want anything of that sort ; he says I am to
rule myself before I rule the world.'

Is Philip too heavy on you ? He has
always kept himself in such strict order that he
does not know how hard it is for happy-unlucky
people like you and me.'

Oh, no. He is just perfect, and knows all
about one better than oneself,' she said, with a
heavy sigh.

That Sunday evening Cordelia stretched
herself on the hearth rug at her aunt's feet,
saying, ' Aunt Susan, will you tell me all you
know about my mother ? All, please, good and
bad together.'

My dear, I have wished to tell you. Truth
is best, and truth will so far prevail that I do
not fear you will love her less if I must tell you
some things that are not good. But it always
pains me to speak of her, and I cannot do it
while you he on the floor like that.'

I beg your pardon ! I wish I had learnt

manners ; they are harder to make up than
spelling even. Will this do, on the footstool
under your elbow ? Auntie, I have heard the
worst of her  that she ran away, but I want to
know how it came about.*

Miss Hooper told Eosina's story much as
she told it to Mr. Odiarne before Cordelia
came, but with a wonderful difference in her
own feelings. Eosina's child had warmed her
heart in her old age, and taken away some of
the sting of Eosina's misdeeds ; Cordelia had
come to her with a message of love and penitence
from the dead. Her hearer said little,
until she heard of the deceit and the elopement
; then she was roused.

She must have been a horrid girl to serve
you so ! I cannot help feeling it, for it seems
as if you were telling of a girl like me, not of
my mother. It was mean, it was sneaks of
her  and stupid too, to fancy any one could be
better to her than you and Mrs. Wastell. To
be sure, my father, when he likes, can persuade

a horse's hind-leg off, and I dare say she
thought he was quite a trump-card,'

Cordeha, do not talk your slang about
this ! It sounds hateful to me.'

Dearest ! I am so sorry ; I forget sometimes,
and sometimes I do not know the right
words.'

Yes. Eosina had been so carefully guarded
that she really did not know a bad man when
she saw him  ahem  I mean that she had no
experience of various characters ; still she knew
better than that, she must have known that she
was doing very, very wrong.'

And think what she must have felt when
she found out the Colonel's little wavs  I mean,
that my father was not what she expected ! '

I am sure that when she came to herself
she would struggle to make the best of him 
for love, as you must do for duty, my child.'

Mr. Odiarne said so. I wonder what he
would say if he knew him. Auntie, it is as if
you told me of a stranger, not of the mother I

have always fancied. It is hard to forgive her
for having hurt you so.' Cordelia kissed the
square and faded hand that rested near to heron
the crutch-handled stick.

It was because we loved her so much that
she hurt us so deeply. We spoilt her, and
made her the centre of our lives ; she fancied
the world was made for her to take what she
liked out of.'

And she took him ! Oh, ye powers ! '
murmured the Colonel's daughter.

You are not very like her, Cordelia. She
was smaller and fairer, and very dainty and
pretty in all her ways and manners; but you
have a better temper, and a more unselfish and
affectionate nature. One sees those things later 
too late  and all the mistakes. God forgive us !
Remember, my dear, when you bear a grudge,
as I fear you do, against your father for his
neglect of you, that although it has been bad
for your manners and ladylike training, yet it
may have been better for you than spoiling. I

could hardly have borne to trace your mother's
failings in you, and so find new cause for self-reproach.
So I love my big, awkward, truth-telling
Cordeha, without too sore a heart about
my poor daring, our broken idol.'

'And what about my father?' asked Cordelia,
after a silence.

My dear, you must ask Philip Odiarne
about him, not me,' replied Aunt Sum, quite
restored to her usual crispness.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XIV.

A MEETING.

. . Those blind motions of the spring,
That show the year is turn'd.

Tennyson.

The Sandbay regatta is to be on Thursday,
my lady ; if the Somerset will come I will drive
you all in the break,' said Mayne Wastell to
his stepmother.

Very good. I will write to Silverwood.
How many can you take ? '

We will drive Cocktail and the Grey ; they
will pull eight easily. Toby is after grouse ;
so there will be Jock and Tim, with the two

girls

Mayne's sentence did not sound quite
finished. Mrs. Wastell said, 'That will be
eight, with Jones ; for you must needs take meas

odd old woman, unless you propose Lady
Somers.'

Fancy her in the break  like a peacock ina
higgler's basket ! I shall not want Jones :
Tim can open the gates. Then we can have
Cordelia ; she is better company than Jones.'

!Mrs. Wastell paused, considering. There
had been a good deal of Cordelia lately, except
during the fortnight of Mayne's absence ; that
might be accidental  but then it might not.
Lettice spoke quickly. ' Yes, let us have
Cordeha ; it will do her good.'

I thought Miss Spenser was the agent for
doing her good,' said Mrs. Wastell.

She will be all day away from Mayl:)iny,
and '

Here Mrs. Wastell was called away, saying,
as she left the room, ' Ask her, if you like.'

Go on, Lettice,' said Mayne.

About Cordelia ? I think there is something
odd about her.'

There was a good deal. I thought the

Pv 2

poor tiling was being shaped to pattern
now.'

This is different. I think she is going to
take up some religious turn.'

There are people who think that a good
thing.'

Of course, Mayne ; you know what I
mean. Cordelia is not natural over it ; she is
so vehement and furious, taking quite a craze.'

A little enthusiasm is refreshing when it
is not on too small a matter. Her subject is
momentous enough. Do the parsons bear too
hard on her ? '

She listens to no one but Philip, and is so
excited over him ; she is worse than the May-bury
ladies ; if she is not as absurd as Miss
Peabody, she is more tHe montes''

Don't speak French, unless you wish to
show off. She might have a worse craze thana
parsonic one, and Philip will do her nothing
but good in the long run. She is of a different
nature from you ; she is not so ranges.

There, I can be as fine as you in the matter
of French ! Get along, old girl, and don't shy
at shadows.'

Cordelia went to Sandbay, and on the box
of the break. ]airs. Wastell thought Mayne
would keep that seat for Caro Somers, a very
merry, spirited girl, and good looking too.
When the time should come for Mrs. Wastell to
leave the Warren to a stepdaughter-inlaw she
thought she could leave it for Caro Somers
with a very good grace. But surely a man
may do as he likes with his own box-seat,
particularly when he is driving from it himself.
Cordeha looked a credit to any one's break, and
she chattered all the way in her friendliest
fashion. Tim Somers was content to walk up
the hills with her. Fifteen miles of country,
chiefly fir plantations and open heathery common,
lay between the Warren and the coast ;
the hills were steep, the road sandy, and the
horses must be eased a little. Charlotte Somers
had lately engaged herself to a young barrister.

who must get a little further on in his profession
before he could claim her. She liked
to stay with Mrs. Wastell in the carriage and
talk about him, while Caro walked with Mayne
by the horses' heads, discussing a litter of collie
puppies that were her uppermost delight at
present. Thus by hill and dale they came to
the last cliff overlooking Sandbay, halted
to combine the best joint of view with due
attention to the luncheon-basket, and so down
into the pretty watering-place, which had made
such an effort to be gay and festive that it was
more evident than usual that it was an extremely
quiet place.

The regatta was not exciting, and there
was a slight mist over the sea, so that the
yacht races were for the most part invisible.
The spirits of the party were quite unimpaired
by this trifle. Mrs. Wastell went to see a
friend ; the others strolled on the sands and
climbed over the rocks into the next bay, a
salt and solitary recess where their laughter

seemed out of place until some one proposed
sea-songs. Charlotte led them, and they sang
several together ; then she sanpj alone the
Sands of Dee.' Tim voted this too tragic,
and asked Cordelia to sing. She declined entirely,
and with some confusion which seemed
out of place. Mayne guessed that she remembered
with shame her Silverwood singing, and
named a Neapolitan fisher song that he had
heard since. She shook her head, and began
the hymn for those at sea, ' Eternal Father ' ;
the rest joined her, and it sounded sweet and
solemn over the summer sea. More than one
of the young people thought of ' perils on the
sea' of this troublesome world, which as yet
seemed blue and shining for all of them.
Lettice could not have been one of these, for
she said to Tim, as he helped her over the
rocks on their way back, ' I could bear to
be taken for cheap trippers, but to be thought
a revival party is too much for my strength of
mind.'

Before they left the town, Cordeha, with
Jock and Caro, set off up the steep little main
street of Sandbay in search of a shop where
Jock said toffee was soul of a peculiar and
excellent make. They found it, and laid in a
good stock for use on the homeward journey.
Jock, with his sticky parcel, was a step behind
the girls, when, in leaving the shop, they met
two gentlemen, in yachting dress, arm in arm,
very jocose, and a little disposed to turn them
off the narrow pavement. Caro went quietly
past as if she saw not, and Jock from behind
lifted up his ugly face with such an air that the
heroes recollected themselves and were giving
way, when one of them, who was the Hon.
George Kingdon, recognised Cordelia.

Hullo ! Why, Corks, it's never you ! '
Cordelia stopped short, looking at him
bravely but with scarlet cheeks. ' How do
you do ? ' she asked, faintly and injuriously, as,
with a glance at her companions, he lifted his
hat, a little too late for a perfect salute.

The Somerset went on a few steps, but Mr.
Kingdon's companion leant against the bow-window
of the toffee-shop and considered
Cordelia at his ease.

I hardly knew you myself, and I am sure
your parent would not dream that this dignified
young lady was his once-loved Corks.'

Hush ! Is he here ? ' Cordelia threw a
wild glance around her as if she would run,
coidd she but see a safe direction.

Calm yourself. He is at Merle Hill, six
good miles from here, laid up with some complaint
that he does not give a name to, but
which makes him short in the temper and the
legs. What a brick you were, Corks, to send
me that message ! I roared over it at first,
and then I thought it was a beastly shame to
laugh.'

It was I Good-bye.' But, quicker than
she could fly, he seized her arm.

Don't be silly ; I am planning to go and
see you on Monday, when I go through May-bury.

I shall call at your Cottage without
fail, unless you think it better to stroll clown
to the station at four o'clock. You shall tell
me all about it, 'pon my word you shall  as
you promised, you know. Good-bye till
Monday.'

Cordelia twitched her elbow from his detaining
hand and sped down the street to her
friends. 'A man I knew at Mentone,' she
explained airily, but they saw she panted and
her face still flamed. Jock turned off to help
Mayne with the horses, and Caro said to
Cordelia, 'Why do you blush so when you
meet any one ? You turned scarlet when that
man spoke to you.'

There was no reason, but I cannot help
it.'

You must help it ; you are not a ninny,
and need not look like one ; besides, it makes
men think all sorts of things  that you think
too much of them.'

The wretches. I think very little of this

one. I hate them when they think things,
don't YOU ? '

'I do ; but they will, even the nice ones.
A governess we once had showed me that it
would not do to colour up and look as if some
great thing were happening if a gentleman
spoke to one unexpectedly. You know some
girls are such fools, one would not care to bethought
like them.'

Xo one ever told me that kind of thing.
You were all tremendously well brought up ;
at first I did not like you because of that, but
now I see you are just as chummy as if you
had not been brought up at all.'

Caro laughed. ' That is great praise, for
you are the chummiest girl I know, and you
were not three days in learning to like us.'

Cocktail and the Grey made light of eight
persons in the cool of the evening, and trotted
merrily when their heads Averse turned homewards.
There was not much walking till they
came to the last hill, then all the insides got

down, leaving Mayne and Cordelia on their
lofty seat.

Tired, Cordie ? You have not spoken for
the last four miles.'

I am not tired ; but the sunset makes me
think, or yearn, as Miss Carling would say,'
she answered, turning her face toward the clear
yellow light that shone behind the fir-trees on
the hill to the left of them.

You are new to thinking, and work too
hard at it, child. Did you meet a friend in
Sandbay ? '

Her face changed suddenly ; she had not
been thinking of George Kingdon, though a
Httle time before she was rejoicing and trembling
over her narrow escape, saying to herself,
I should have to run away and hide for shame
if these dear people knew that I was called
Corks.' As a matter of fact, Jock had heard
perfectly, and told Mayne, who watched her as
she ans red, ' Yes. How did you know ? '

Two fellows came into the inn-ward as the

horses were put to. One I know to be about
the worst bargain in the county, Mostin of
lerle Hill, a man I do not care to speak to ;
all the decent fellows about here have cut him.
Soldiers did not even know him by sight. He
said the other man had been speaking to you.'

Yes, it is George Kingdon, Lord Rowe's
son.'

'He is a very chicanery-looking chap,
and keeps poor company. I should think he
would be the only person likely to complain if
you dropped him, Cordie.'

Suppose it had been my father ! He is
staying at Merle Hill, and is as chickaleery-
looking as George. You have never seen my
awful dad.'

Mayne was taken aback, and did not know
how to proceed udth his lecture. Her father !

 It would be rather sneaking to drop
George, don't you think ? He has been very
good to me for two winters, when no one else
was ; he often took me for a walk at Mentone ;

and once lie went without his dinner and
walked four miles to get me out of a
hobble

What could you have been doing to want
such a haul as that ? '

If you had asked me when I first came
here I should have told you  not now. Do
you know, I am a sneak, for if I had seen
George before he saw me I should have run 
down that queer little street, right into the sea !
When he was talking to me, with that man
standing by sneering, I was quite frightened
to think that I belong to them.'

Belong to them ! Cordelia ! '

Yes ; they are my father's friends, Sophy's
too. We Ashbys are that sort of people  just
that, Mayne.'

Nonsense ; no one can be said to belong to
their father's acquaintance ; and as to your
father '  here honest Mayne felt himself in
difficulties  ' well, he is your father, and you
must make the best of him.'

So every one says. No one has told me
how, yet.'

As to his friends, if they are of Mostin's
stamp  good heavens ! the less you see of them
the better. Besides, you belong, as you call it,
to your mother's people as well.'

K I could only belong to them I  really,
always ! '

You shall if you choose,' said Mayne, who
could only himself be said to belong to them
by a stretch of courtesy.

Here the top of the hill became obvious,
even to the horses, and the others were heard
lamenting that they had not been taken up a
quarter of a mile past.

The next Sunday Mr. Odiarne preached a
mighty sermon on the power of a holy life
over the lives of others ; without such a life no
words, no works, will avail to benefit them ;
but with it the humblest may win his thousands.
There is not in the world so great a
power, so strong an influence, as is exerted by

such a life  far greater, stronger, and more
widely reaching than an evil life ; for ' greater
is He that is for us than he that is against us.'
It must be a life the inner springs of which are
hid with Christ in God ; from that it follows
that it is pure, saintly, disciplined : that it is
full of loving kindness and humility, of patience,
hope, and good deeds. It must be a life of
constant and entire self-sacrifice, often one of
suffering ; though the suffering and the sacrifice
may be hidden from the public eye, and not to
be measured by the popular estimate. Such a
life weill deepen and brighten as it runs its
course, till it lends glory to the countenance
and power to the speech ; till the face shines
like Stephen's, and the voice pleads like Paul's.
Through all its years, and often long after
death, such a life will draw up, strengthen,
inspire, and sustain other lives that more or
less nearly touch it, and is one of God's great
instruments of conversion. The power of such
lives can be traced in all history, is felt in all

experiences, the strongest, sweetest, most abiding
influence that man can brings to bear on his
fellow-man, the infinite, the immeasurable, tn
eternal power of a holy life.

That day mr. Merridew was at Ivy Cottage;
he had been in the parish church in the
morning.

Mss Hooper, who did you think of most
when the Vicar was preaching this morning ? '
he asked.

Of those who were dead before you were
born ; of my mother chiefly, she answered well
to that description. It is strange, but Cordeha,
her great-granddaughter, sometimes brings her
to my mind.'

And you, Miss Ashby ? ' he asked, looking
a little disappointed.

I thought a little of dear Soeur Lucie, and
of an old woman I used to know, but most of
Mr. Odiarne himself.'

That is right ! ' said the curate, with
restored radiance. ' I thought every one must

VOL. I. S

be thinking of him, and he would be so astonished
to hear that any one did.'

I did not forget him, Mr. Merridew ; but 
thank God for them  I have known many such
lives, and have seen them finish their course,'
said Aunt Susan, with feeling, yet a little
severely.

I have never seen any one like him. I do
not see how any one could be like him ! ' said
Cordelia, hotly.

'Such men are always rare, but the holy
lives he speaks of are not so very uncommon
as Elijah found. They are the salt of the
earth, and I believe there is always salt enough
to keep even times like these sweet. You
must think so, too, or you will lose heart,' said
the old lady to Mr. Merridew.

I do believe it, though I have been lately
passing through the stage of believing everyone
bad, because I could no longer believe
every one good.'

Did you ever do that ? ' said Cordelia,

surprised that even this young parson could
ever have taken so fresh a view, while her
aunt was surprised that he could have advanced
beyond it.

It is the best belief to be brought up in, I
think, that " the wicked man " is a vague abstraction
heard of chiefly in church ; but it is
sore work coming out of it. The Yicar keeps
up one's heart, however. I thought he was
very fine to-day. When he warms up and gets
that exalted spiritual look, even his appearance
is very striking.'

1 think he is always beautiful to look at 
Hke the saints in the windows,' said Cordelia,
with quiet force.

You young people think so much of looks,'
said Aunt Susan.

Would you like the Vicar as well if he
were very fat and had a purple face ? ' asked
Mr. Merridew, laughing, as he prepared to
go. ' Miss Ashby, would you not like to go to
the Brook Street schoolroom this evenings I
B 2

think the Vicar will be there,' he added, as
Cordeha began to decline.

Oh, Aunt Susan ! may I ? '

My dear, I do not think you ought to be
in Brook Street so late in the evening. Well,
see if French will go v/ith you.'

This was an enormous concession for Aunt
Susan, who disliked that even the old maids
should go to evening services ; that young
women should stay at home and read their
Bibles after dark was her theory, but the spirit
of the times was too strong for her in the
matter of practice.

Mr. Odiarne, pursuing the thoughts of his
morning sermon, spoke in the same spirit,
but in different form, to the simple folk who
gathered in the Brook Street schoolroom. He
told them that they ought to help each other
along the narrow way, and he told them how
to do it.

One consequence of his day's preaching was
that Cordeha decided that it was her duty to

take the present opportunity of influencing
George Kingdon. ' I must meet him,' she
thought, ' or else get out of the way altogether.
It will not do to let him come swinging up
the garden, and perhaps call out " Corks " at
the window. Besides, I cannot possibly speak
seriously to him with Aunt Susan looking on.'

CHAPTER Xy.

MOTIVE POWERS,

And young and kind, and royally blind,
Forth she stepped from her palace door.

E. B. Browning.

On Monday afternoon, a little past four o'clock,
Mr. Odiarne and Mayne Wastell were walking
towards Maybury down the hill by Ivy Cottage.
All was silent in the hot garden, and the road
too was nearly as deserted. Suddenly, thirty
yards ahead of them, Cordeha Ashby dropped
out of the yew-tree on to the turf border of
the road. She, never looked in their direction,
but walked quickly towards the town. The
two men laughed.

I thought she had given that up,' said
Mayne.

And I begged her not to do it ; so much
for one's counsel,' answered Mr. Odiarne.

By Jove ! look there ! ' This was drawn
from Mayne at the sight of George Kingdon,
who at that moment met Cordeha. She must
have seen him from the yew-tree. They
slackened their pace, expecting the pair to
turn ; but Cordelia, slipping her arm through
Mr. Kingdon's, turned him abruptly down a
little lane that led from the high road past the
end of Miss Hooper's garden. When they
crossed the end of the lane Cordelia and her
friend were going towards the fields ; she had
dropped his arm, but was talking eagerly to
him.

Who is it, Mayne ? Any one you know ? '

He is the Hon. George Kingdon  some

precious scamp of her father's delectable circle

of acquaintance. One of the Merle Hill set ;

old Ashby is there now'

And what of this proceeding ? '
I don't understand it. She met the fellow
for a few minutes in the street at Sandbay last
Tveek, but the monkey told me  I mean I

warned lier that he was not the best of company,
and she expressed some dread of him,
saying she would gladly not have spoken to
him ; this is the last thing I expected.' Mayne
looked very much vexed, and Mr. Odiarne
hardly less so and much more severe.

This is an arranged meeting. It will be
heart-breaking to Miss Hooper to find herself
so cfTosslv deceived.'

Perhaps my people had better see toit,'
said Mayne, regretfully. ' Unless you will
speak to her yourself, Philip. I do not like the
idea of springing a mine on her ; but this must
be stopped.'

In any case I must speak to her ; she is
not only deceiving her aunt, but playing the
hypocrite in a way I cannot permit.'

She would not do that ; I am sure she
speaks the truth. Perhaps this fellow has some
hold on her ; if so he must be kicked. She
did say he got her out of some scrape at Mentone.
I can credit a man with any villainy

who stays at Merle Hill, but not so easily
believe she is playing us all false.'

If you knew what tricks our pupil-teachers
and other picked girls will sometimes play us,
you might not be so confiding. I always thun
them over to Knox, who is impervious to all
wiles and wheedles. I wish I had left this one
to him ; but she belongs to you all in a way,
and Lettice answered for her ; I thought these
girls understood one another. I am very much
disappointed here, for I believed in this child's
sincerity and single-mindedness,' growled the
Vicar.'

Get a wife, Philip. Perhaps if you understood
one good woman you might find a clue
to the rest.'

'I should be stone-blind then, instead of
only one-eyed. I doubt if a woman can be
said to be proved till she is as old as Aunt
Susan. If there where not a man like Knox
here and there to tackle them, I could wish
that women had no souls.'

There's a sentiment for a popular preacher !
Why, Philip, that minx Cornea cried a pailful
on Sunday while you were preaching, and
Lettice said she went with Merridew to hear
you again in Brook Street.'

I may forgive her this prank, on her submission
; but if she makes a fool of Merridew I
won't, so there.'

As you saw her just now, I leave this to
you, for I suppose she must have her bad
quarter of an hour over it, poor girl.'

Certainly she must ; and the more I like
her the less she must be spared.'

A few days passed before Mr. Odiarne was
able to go to Ivy Cottage. His distaste for his
errand did not make him find the opportunity
any sister, in which he differed from Mr.
Knox, who would have had it out at once.
Cordeha was sitting in the verandah ; the
moment she saw the broad hat over the shrubs
she ran down to meet the wearer, with a very
downcast and troubled face.

I want so much to see you ; can sou spare
me a little of the precious time in the garden
before you go to Aunt Susan ? '

It is you that I come to see to clay said
the Yicar, wondering if Mayne had been beforehand
with him.

I have not really read the chapters you
marked for me, nor got on with this book at
all, for I can think of nothing but the dreadful
mess I have got into. You will be very angry.'

Not if you tell me all the truth about it.'

All the truth ! ]mr. Odiarne, I should
despise my very self if I told anything but the
truth to you. I don't often tell a lie, never on
purpose, I always thought it sneaking ; but I
should be wicked indeed if I told anything but
the very truth to you.'

To me ! I have told you before that you
consider too much what I may personally think ;
you trust me to teach you aright, and that is
enough. You must try to act on the principles
I show you ; truth is one of the first, and

because both God and man require it of you in
all things you must tell it now, not because
you are talking to me.'

The tone was far gentler than the words ;
Cordeha answered with a look of perfect trust,
the respect and affection that prompted it were
plain enough, but it was doubtful if she took in
the force of the appeal to general principles as
well as if it had been made by ]mr. Knox or
Aunt Susan.

It was a man I met at Sandbay, a friend
of mine at Mentone. Mayne told me he was
no good at all. I know that ; all the men we
knew there were a shady set; but George
Kingdon was different  not at all a good man,
but not a bad fellow, you know.'

]mr. Odiarne signified his comprehension of
this delicate distinction.

He looked horrid at Sandbay, not nice at
all ; but he said he was coming here, and wanted
me to tell him about you, and all you have
taught me. I promised long ago that I would

tell him as soon as I found any very good person
to teach me. He used to be jolly and friendly
to me when no one else was, and I longed so
much  so very much  to tell him some of the
beautiful things you have told me, and say in
yom' sermons, and what it is to be good. I
think George might be good if he made up his
mind, though all our people would scream with
laughter at the idea of it ; but I know George
better than a good many of them  or I thought
I did. He was so disagreeable at Sandbay,
and Mayne thought I ought to cut him, so that
I was in a great puzzle about it for a day or
two, and could not tell if I would or I would
not ; but you made up my mind on Sunday. I
was sure it would be right to use my influence
and to show him the beauty of holiness ; you
said so ? '

Not quite. Once I told you a much
easier thing  not to jump out of that tree.'

So you did ; but I thought it would not do
to think of manners when it was a question of

a person's soul, and I knew George would not
precisely suit Aunt Susan, so I stopped him
and took him down Crooked's Lane. I spoke
very seriously to him, the very best I knew ;
all I could think of that I had heard from you,

and things Mrs. Wastell had said, and  but '

Here Cordelia got into difficulties, she grew hot
and shy, and sobs came into her voice. It was
too much to say face to face sitting there on
the garden bench. Mr. Odiarne made her pace
along the rose walk by his side, and with her
face meekly drooped out of sight by his elbow,
she struggled on.

He did not take it rightly at all ; he does
not really care. He laughed and said dreadful
things, going on in the old horrid fashion that
I never thought funny even then, but now it
hurts me  and he said things that made me
ashamed, about you. I need not tell them,
need I ? '

No ; and you need not mind them,
either ; do not let them trouble you in the

least. Is there any more that you must tell
me?'

Only just the worst. He thought I was
not in earnest, and only wanted to meet him 
him  as if  I cared for him -just foolishly.
Oh, Mr. Odiarne ! I have made him hate goodness
instead of loving it, and despise me ; what
ought I to have said ? '

Nothing at all. But tell me the end of
your interview.'

'When I found he only wanted to talk
nonsense, as if I were Sophy and cared for
that sort of thing, I jumped down that bank at
the turn of the lane, where it is wet, and ran
across the long field to the end of the garden.
I got up the sunk fence into the orchard, and
when I looked back he was lighting a cigar
and prospecting for the road to the station. If
he found the foot-bridge, he would be in time
for his train.'

Mr. Odiarne was moved to laughter, and
guilty of a wish to impart these confidences to

Mayne ; but even this informal confession must
be sacred, and as for the laughter, Cordeha's
real distress quenched that desire. He said
gravely, ' So you have been casting your
pearls before swine.'

Shrine ! Oh, is not that rough on poor
George ? '

They are not my words ; they were spoken
to those who, like you, had but lately found
their pearls. You are but a child, Cordelia,
when you rashly show your treasures to the
first comer. And then you are so new a
learner, do you think you are fit to teach ? '

This rebuke went home, and Mr. Odiarne
went on to say more than can be written down
here, ending with, ' Do not be discouraged.
When you are ready to teach others you will
find work ready to you' hand, and when you
make your next experiment let it be with a
more suitable person than a fast young man.'

I can never speak to him again after the
tidings he said. Once he was very kind to me

when I got into a scrape, almost as kind as you
are now.'

A question as to the nature and extent of
her obligations brought out the story of Cordelia's
expedition to Monte Carlo. She was
ashamed of it, but not so much so as of her
recent failure. Full of pity for the neglected
girl, and unwilling to complicate her duties for
the future, Mr. Odiarne made very little remark
on her story ; but in speaking of the gambling
he said, ' If you are living near that place
again, I would advise you not to go there
unless it be an actual matter of obedience to
your father ; and surely you need not play
again."

Never, I promise you. But the money ?
I spent it all, and the frocks are worn out.'

Well, you can make it up in course of
time by small self-denials, and that will make
it a fit offering when you can see your way to
its doing good. Take care that it is yourself
that you deny, not other people ; and if you

VOL I. T

are some time in saving this sum it will keep
you the longer in mind of this talk, among
other things. The money is a trifle. I want
you to do something that will cost you more.
I will only point it out, and you can do it of
your own free-will. I shall not ask if it has
been done. It is that you should tell all this
to Mrs. Wastell. Is that hard ? '

Yes.'

But you love her ? '

Oh, yes ! She is the dearest dear ! '

And you have told me.'

That is different, quite ! '

It would distress Aunt Susan, and to no
good purpose. She is a generation further
from you than your cousin, and she is unused
to modern ways and modern forms of evil.
Do you know, she was much in my mind in
my sermons the other day. I have known
many conspicuous saints, such as those whose
names illumine the ages all along ; but there
are many more who are rarely spoken of, never

"written of, whose holy lives are of scarcely less
value. Hers is one of them. I am never with
her without feeling its power. I cannot have
that pleasure to-day, for I have spent my time
on you.'

Cordelia executed herself bravely in the
matter of confession to Mrs. Wastell, and she
lead her reward, not only in a taste of the
mother-love that could never be fully hers,
but in a great opening out, under her gentle
counsels, of the perfumed lower of womanhood,
the outer leaves of which George Kingdon
had so rudely brushed ; the bud had hitherto
been folded too tightly for either softness or
sweetness, there was only a flush of the
brighter tones of colour and the promise of
future expansion. In the succeeding weeks
she made rapid progress in outward things, and
even Mayne was shilling to allow that there
might be a happy medium between a fair
barbarian and a conventional young lady.

And I think that wee may consider her as
ta

proof that love, a lover's love, is not the only
civiliser,' said Mrs. Wastell.

I know you think that although love in
the Revised Version sense is the one means of
good, yet that the power of romantic love is
much exaggerated,' said Mayne.

'The exaggeration lies in its being represented
as the only power ; the poets and
novelists do this very often for art purposes,
and in all the fair realm of romance Love is
the rightful king, as Beauty is crowned queen ;
but even in the lives of the young and fair
there are other forces than love and other
kingdoms than romance, and they ought to
be taken into account. The family and
filial love that goes for so much with most
girls has been absent from hers till now, and
she is enjoying it with all the more zest
that it has not come to her naturally and insensibly.'


She is not very romantic,' said Mayne.

Do you think not ? She lives entirely in

her feelings,' observed Lettice, who had not yet
spoken, contrary to her custom. ' Something
is improving her very much.'

Yes,' answered Mrs. Wastell. ' I think it
is grace  not manner, nor manners only, though
it shows so much in that way  but Grace, with
a capital. She is striving after goodness withall
her heart, and it softens and beautifies her
whole character from the inside. I am so glad
we persevered with her, and w ere not disgusted
at first. It will be a great healing of an old
sorrow for us elders if Eosina's daughter should
turn out well.'

It will be a great credit to some people if
Colonel Ash by 's daughter should turn out well ;
but you must work upon her for a considerable
time longer,' said Mayne, who was a little sore
that he had never fully fathomed the George
Kingdon episode. Philip told him it was all
right  Cordelia was not much to blame ; and
his stepmother had given him the same unsatisfactory
assurance. Lettice, his usual resort.

was unavailable, for he would not betray Cordelia
to her unblessed judgments.

When they were alone Lettice said to her
mother, ' You will think I am a vixen ; but I
cannot take quite the same view of Cordelia as
you do. I am not so sure about the power
that is moving her.'

Surely you do not think she is deceiving
us?'

Oh, no ! But I think she is deceiving herself.
I am sure she is trying honestly to be
good ; but she is too new at it, and floundering
about far too awkwardly among her new motives
for her goodness to have any beautifying
effect just yet. It is something else.'

Oh, Lettice ! do you mean Mayne ? I do
not want to be a foolish old hen, but I have
watched them ; she treats him exactly as if it
were you  rather too much like you sometimes
; but it is a fault on the right side. Then
her connections are so doubtful, and Mayne is
so particular.'

Mayne is very like other young men ; but
I was not thinking of him.'

Of Jock Somers ? ' asked Mrs. Wastell,
much relieved, though whether Lady Somers
would have shared her relief is at least
doubtful.

Philip taught me, as he does Cordeha ;
and I am for ever grateful, and think him the
best of men, and the first of cousins ; but do
you think I ever made such a fuss about him
as Cordeha does ? '

Oh ! Let me have time to take this in 
I do not like the suggestion at all. You cannot
surely think her so base, so wicked, as to make

her Christian training a cover for . Oh,

Lettice ! It is too bad to contemplate ! '

No, no ! She is quite sincere ; but she is
thinking, moving, breathing, in an atmosphere
of Philip. He is more like an idol than a saint
to her, she has so glorified him. She has an
ascetic turn on now, and will not eat anything
she likes, so that the old maids are distracted,

and Aunt Susan has hunted out a family recipe
for spring medicine ; Cordie would have taken
it because it is so nasty, only it is September,
and French thinks it might not suit the time of
year. She has bought a pair of cotton gloves,
baggy at the thumbs, and vhen I declined to
be seen vith them, she said she vould buy
another pair, for Mr. Odiarne told her to deny
herself, not other people ; I wish she had stuck
to the cottons, it would have been more natural

Mrs. Wastell laughed. ' You frightened
me at first, but this only shows a youthful
enthusiasm ; Philip is the last man to
encourage it.'

He is the last man to see it. He raises
his lofty head, and fixes his far-seeing eyes on
distant realms of bliss, and will never notice
that a little nincompoop like Cordie is making
a fool of herself under his feet.'

Well, my dear, you would not wish him
to be always on the look-out for little nincompoops.'


No, and I have no objection to Miss
Peabody and Mrs. Blower talking about the
dear Vicar, and the edification of a conversation
with him at the street-corner about the
coal club, but I do not like it to be our
cousin.'

It will be better to take no notice, it is
only a passing absurdity. There was a very
stirring and popular preacher in London when
I was young, about whom I and my friends
made great geese of ourselves ; but it evaporated
in good time, and I, for one, gained much solid
good as a residue when the effervescence was
past.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : Printed BY

BPOTTI3WOODE A>'D CO., JTEW-STEEET Squab

ASD PAHLIAIIEST Street

VOL. I. U

OF THE

COMPLETE WORKS OF

W. M. THACKERAY.

In 24 Volumes, crown 8vo. price 3J-. 6. each.

Sets in cloth, ;4. 4s. ; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, ascertaining

nearly all the squall Woodcut Illustrations of the former Editions

And many New Illustrations by Eminent Artists.

THIS EDITION CONTAINS ALTOGETHER 1,626 ILLUSTRATIONS

Thb Author.
Luke Files, A.R.A.
Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth
Thompson).
George du Married.
Richard Doyle.
Fred. Walker, A.R.A.
George Cruikshank.

John Leech.
Frank Dickson.

LiNLEY SaMBOURNE.

F. Barnard.

E. J*. Wheeler.

F. A. Fraser.
Charles Keene.
R. B. Wallace.

&c. &c. &c.

J. p. Atkinson.
W. J. Webb.
T. R. Macquoid.
M. Fitzgerald.
W. Ralston.
John Collier,
h. furnish.

G. G. KiLBURNB.

VANITY FAIR. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

PENDENNIS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

THE Newcome. Illustrated by Richard Doyle. 2 vols.

ESMOND. Illustrated by George du Married.

THE VIRGINIANS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP. Illustrated by the Author,

Frederick Walker, and R. B. Wallace. 2 vols.

THE GREAT Hogarth DIAMOND; A LITTLE DINNER

AT TLMxMINS's; Cornwall TO CAIRO. Illustrated by the Author, j. P.
Atkinson, and W. J. Webb.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. Illustratedbythe Author and Richard Doyle.
THE BOOK OF SNOBS; TRAVELS AND SKETCHES.

Illustrated by the Author.

BURLESQUES. Illustrated by the Author and George Cruikshank.
PARIS SKETCH BOOK, LITTLE TRAVELS, and ROADSIDE

SKETCHES. Illustrated bv the Author, T. R. Macquoid, and J. P. Atkinson.

THE Yellowish PAPERS; THE FITZBOODLE

PAPERS; COX'S DIARY: CHARACTER SKETCHES. Illustrated by the
Author and George Cruikshank.

THE IRISH SKETCH BOOK; CRITICAL REVIEWS. Illustrated

by the Author. George Cruikshank, John Leech, and M. Fitzgerald.

THE MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON; THE FATAL BOOTS.

Illustrated by T. E. Millais. R.A George Cruikshank, and W. Ralston.
CATHERINE: a Story; Menes WIVES; THE BEDFORD ROW
CONSPIRACY. Illustrated by the Author, Luke Files, A.R.A., and R. B.

Wallace.

BALLADS : THE ROSE AND THE RING. Illustrated by the Author,
Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth Thompson), George du Married, John Collier,
H. Furnish, G. G. Kilburne. M. Fitzgerald, and J. P. Atkinson.

ROUNDABOUT PAPERS. To which is added THE SECOND
FUNERAL of NAPOLEON. Illustrated by the Author, Charles Keene, and
M. Fitzgerald.

THE FOUR GEORGES, and THE ENGLISH humorist
OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. Illustrated by the Author, Frank
Dickson, Linley Tambourine, Frederick Walker, and F. Barnard.

LOVEL THE WIDOWER ; THE WOLVES AND THE LAMB;

DENIS Ducal. To which is added an Essay on the Writings of W. Thackeray
by Leslie Stephen. Illustrated by the Author and Frederick Walker.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Uniform Edition ; each Volume Illustrated with a Vignette Title-page

drawn by Arthur Hughes, and Engraved by J. Cooper.

Large crown 8vo. 6s,

1. OLD KENSINGTON.

2. THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF

3. FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A

YOUNG PRINCE.

4. TO ESTHER : and other Sketches.

5. BLUEBEARD'S KEYS; and other

Stories.

6. THE STORY OF ELIZABETH:

TWO HOURS; FROM AN
ISLAND.

7. TOILERS AND SPINSTERS ; and

other Essays.

8. MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN.

9. MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations.



ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF THE

LIFE AND WORKS OF CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL), and her sisters

EMILY and ANNE Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).

In Seven Volumes, large crown Svo. handsomely bound in cloth, price super volume.
The descriptions in 'Jane Eyre' and the other fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr.
G. M. Imperii, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest of
the reading of the stories.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
THE PROFESSOR AND POEMS. By Charlotte Bronte. With Poems by her

Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Broth?. And AGNES GREY. By Anne

Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors by Charlotte

Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
The TENANT of Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations
*Sf* Tke volumes are also to be had infcp. Svo. liinp cloth, price is. 6d. each.

UNIFORM EDITION OF

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.
Price 3. 6d. each, boitnd vi cloth ; or in Sets of Seven Volumes, handsomely bound
in half-morocco, price 2. los.
CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES:
Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.
Vol. II. NORTH AND SOUTH.
Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS.
Vol. IV. CRANFORD.
Company Manners The Well of Pen-morphia The Heart of John Middleton Traits
and Stories of the Huguenots Six Weeks at Heppenheim The Squire's Story'
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras Curious if True The Moorland Cottage The Sexton's
Hero Disappearances Right at last The Manchester Marriage Lois the Witch The

Crooked Branch. 

Vol. V. MARY BARTON.
Cousin Phillips My French Master The Old Nurse's Story Bess's Troubles at Home
Christmas Storms and Sunshine.

Vol. VI. RUTH.
The Grey Woman Merton Hall Mr. Harrison's Confessions Hand and Heart.

Vol. VII. LIZZIE LEIGH.
A Dark Night's Work Round the Sofa My Lady Ludlow An Accursed Race The
Doom of the Griffiths Half a Lifetime Ago The Poor Clare The Half Brothers.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Ptr-

3 0112 045857429

>' Z. :

'.-'f Jti'''. 4.

5S'5.'

rj-m

'-.V*? =.??->' -i-.'":

.v;:.:i':.

*; -





I

  vi



ibhahy

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS


Q45 P

v .2.

*

mss

VOL. II.

A NOVEL

BY

ELIZABETH Cloister

AUTHOR OF 'The Markham OF Fullerton ' 'A DISCORD'
A CONSTANT WOMAN ' ETC.

Enter the Path ! There spring the healing streams
Quenching all thirst ! There bloom th' immortal flower?

Carpeting all the way with joy ! There throng
Swiftest and sweetest hours ! '

E. ARNOLD, Light of Asia

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON '
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[41/ rights reserved]

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME

I Chapter PAGE

XVI. A STEP UNAWARES 1

WII. MARCHING ORDERS 20

XVIII. AN OLD TALE TOLD 37

XIX. A WRONG TURN 55

XX. GONE ASTRAY 71

XXI. FROM OVER THE FENCE 86

XXII. A HELPING HAND 108

XXIII. A Fellow-traveller . . . . 126

XXIV. A GATE INTO A BYWAY . . . .148

XXV. OUT OF SIGHT . . . . . . 170

XXVI. SIDE LIGHTS 186

XXVII. CLOUDY DAYS 203

XXVIII. A JOURNEY ENDED 223

XXIX. FIRMER FOOTSTEPS . 243

CHAPTEE XVI

A STEP UNAWARES.

Away, haunt thou not me,
Thou vain Philosophy !
Little hast thou bestead,
Save to perplex the head,
And leave the spirit dead.

A. H. Clough.

It is doubtful whether in all the years that
Miss Hooper held a mother's place to her niece
Eosina, she received so much affection as Cordelia
Ashby lavished upon her in four months ;
but though Miss Hooper was all kindness and
interest, the tie was too new, the difference in
age too great, for the discrepancies of thought
and feeling; to be so bridged over as to make
Cordelia a needed companion to her aunt.

VOL. II. b

Miss Hooper was ill for a few days in the
autumn ; not seriously, but she was taking one
of those quick steps downhill that old people
do when they have seemed to be stationary
both in age and health for some years. Cordelia
would gladly have nursed her aunt devotedly,
and to that end desired Miss Spenser
not to come to her for a time so that she might
be free ; thereby giving May bury reason to
believe that Miss Hooper's illness was much
greater than was really the case, and making
the old lady very angry with the fussy and
needless inquiries that ensued. When Cordelia
burned to sit up all night, to be tied to
the sick-room, to be a prodigious comfort to her
aunt, it was disappointing to find that the
invalid relied chiefly on the old maids, did not
much care for Cordelia to come into her room
at all, and even suggested that she should goto
the Warren.

Mrs. Wastell came every day to see her
aunt, and, pitying Cordelia's disorganised wanderings

about the house and garden, also suggested
the Warren ; but Cordelia was both hurt
and secretly unwilling to go. She would not
miss the few bright minutes every day when
she met Mr. Odiarne at the gate, and then
watched for his coming down stairs that she
might have a few more precious words, and
carry away food for her dreams ; something
prevented her from explaining this to Mrs.
Wastell, as she would have done in the summer.
She had a biography of S. Francis de Sal us.
which she read and re-read. The saint took
in her mind the likeness of Mr. Odiarne, while
she indulged in a glorious vision of one day
filling Madame de Channel's place near him.

Mrs. Wastell advised the restoration of Miss
Spenser, and sent Lettice daily to Ivy Cottage.
Lettice found Cordelia absorbed and dreamy,
chiefly interested about sisterhoods, of which
she knew nothing, and Lettice very little.

I do not think you are suited for that kind
of life, Cordie ; you are far too erratic'

B 2

'You cannot tell. Any one might be, if
she really meant it, and had a good director.'

I should not, with the best of directors, or
three or four of them. Fancy not being able
to do your own work in your own way, or to
have to do just the contrary thing to what you
do best, at the will of some woman who might
not have a bit more sense about it than you had ! '

That is not the meaning of it at all ; it
does not signify what kind of work you do, it
is the spirit of devotion.'

Ah, yes, a real vocation. That is what so
many people think they have, and find they
have not when it comes to the severe tests they
are put through. You and I are not coming
to anything so serious as that, so far as my
lights show me at present,' said Lettice, sagely.

You are so independent ; I could never be
happy without guidance, though I am not sure
that I should like it from another woman.'

And only from one man ? I know what
would suit you, Cordie. You know that little

cell at the end of the church, near the belfry
stairs ? An anchoress, or sort of female hermit,
is said to have lived there once. She had a
window into the church that she might join in
all the services, and another to the outside,
where alms were put in for her. You might
succeed her, and be very uncomfortable, and
admire Philip continually, and never do one
useful thing so long as you live.'

But I might be useful, if I were very
L r good, and if the window to the inside wire
rightly used, and that to the outside made
larger, so that I could talk to all the people
who came by. Do you know I often feel as if
I could stand on the steps of the market cross
and just tell them all about it ! '

Cordelia's eyes shone, and Lettice looked at
her seriously for a moment. She thought of
Miss Marsh in fact and Dinah Morris in fiction.
It was possible that this girl might be like
them, another pattern of the same material.
Lettice always tried to be unprejudiced. Here

was fire and enthusiasm, which always were to
be taken into account, and Cordelia was manifestly
sincere, so far as she knew herself. Still
Lettice was too true a Briton not to throw a
little prudent cold water over the flames of
enthusiasm.

Nothing would be better, if the people
would listen. Suppose you did not succeed,
and they threw stones at you.'

Stones would be all right, and bring over
the better disposed ; but if they only laughed
and sneered I am afraid I should be floored.
I was once when I tried it with an audience of
one, and had to run away.'

The cell would be a good base of operations
for street preaching ; but what would you
do if Philip went away ? '

Cordelia's blank look was a foretaste of
what the cell would be in such a case.

4 Will he ever go away from Maybury P '

I hope not ; but it is always possible.
His next parish might not have a cell, and he

would not want a small devotee trotting after
him. The next vicar here might be a stout,
practical kind of person, with an active w ife
and four efficient daughters ; it always happens
sd after a romantically excellent celibate like
Philip

Cordelia was incapable of pursuing her
scheme after such a paralysing suggestion.

 What would you do? ' she inquired.

1 1 hope I should contrive to put up with
;he stout vicar ; I could fight the daughters.'

Pheasants were the big game of the May-bury
country, and held their own even against
the mighty fox. This year they were incidentally
useful to Cordelia Ashby in keeping
her feelings on safe and wholesome levels ; for
October was a pleasant time among the country-houses.
People came to stay on short, fully
occupied visits. There were many dinner-parties,
a little tennis still, and much driving
about. Cordelia shared all the Warren diversions,
and was often at other places, especially

at Silverwood, and there was not much time
to be morbid. Lettice looked after her closely,
and the two girls drew nearer together thai
they had done before. Mayne was very full
of spirits, vigorous with his farming, and successful
in the slaughter of pheasants. Mra
Wastell thought that he had never seemed sj>
much at home in his country life, and so wee
satisfied with his narrowed sphere. Cari
Somers was the only member of the circle
inclined to be pensive ; but she did not give!
way to it, and undertook to pass on to Cordelia
her last set of London singing-lessons, as
their voices were very much alike.

Captain Longley came to the Warren for a
few days' shooting, without his wife. When
he returned to town he reported that Miss
Ash by was very much improved and civilised.
She had grown into as handsome a young
woman as he knew, and there was no fault to
be found with her manners. Mrs. Longley
did not believe one word of this, and gave an

unpleasant crispness to her comments. This
was awkward ; and her husband wished he had
begun differently, for he had brought some
pheasant-skins to be made into a hat and muff
for Cordelia. Mayne had prepared them, but
the May bury milliner was voted unequal to
making the hat ; so, in a rash moment, Captain
Longley volunteered to take them to his wife,
who would get them done. He had actually
brought a photograph of the young lady to
aid the London artist, which he was to have
afterwards for his trouble. Not wishing to
offend any one, and seeing that Cordelia's
name was badly received, Captain Longley
arranged the matter himself with a milliner
whom his wife did not patronise, and, as a
measure of prudence, sent back the photograph
to Mayne, who kept it. All would have been
well, if the hat had not been so very pretty
that Mayne, combining gratitude with laziness,
made Lettice write a note of thanks to Mrs.
Longley for him. This arriving, made honest

Harry appear a villain, revealed his treachery
and Cordelia's artfulness, and procured him a
very uncomfortable breakfast, lasting considerably
longer than a quarter of an hour.

This was not the end  indeed, only the
beginning  of the effect of those feathers.
Mayne was going for a few days' shooting
with a friend, who lived some twenty miles off,
and, in order to have things all his own way,
put the boxes into his dogcart and delivered
them himself at Ivy Cottage, on his road to
the station. Cordelia danced out to meet him
in the hall.

6 What have you got, Mayne ? A Stilton
cheese and a box of biscuits ? You look like
the grocer's boy ! '

Something for Aunt Susan. If they do
not suit her, the old maids can wear them.'

Hush ! they will hear you ; they are not
all so very deaf. May I unpack these ? Aunt
Susan is in the drawing-room ; if you don't
say she is looking quite well again, you may
go away. Oh ! how more than sweet !

Are they really those dear pheasants ? And
can they be for me ! '

Cordelia tried on the hat, stuck her hands
into the muff, and  L r ave the finishing stroke
to poor Mayne. Deeper and deeper he had
been falling all through the fair summer and
warm autumn, and now, on that golden brown
October day, the golden brown feathers ended
the matter ; and that sage, staid, and excellent
young man was thoroughly in love with Cordelia
Ashby, who was neither sage, staid, nor
excellent  only the brightest, bonniest maiden
who had ever entered into his experience, and
who had unconsciously shown him not only
that she was delighted with his present, but
that she was touched by, and grateful for, the
kindness that prompted it. The thing was
done, finished, completed, and he knew it ;
but though his heart was burning and throbbing,
and he longed intensely to say one tender
word for its relief, yet he could not declare
his passion in the Ivy Cottage drawing-room,

with Aunt Susan smiling benevolently through
her spectacles, and French bringing her mistress
a cup of broth, while Cordelia was dancing
up and clown between the mirror and the
hearth rug, exclaiming, admiring, and thanking.
Besides, it was drawing near to the time of his
train ; his horse was stamping and pawing a
big hole in the gravel of the drive  that
cherished gravel, on which it was popularly
said Aunt Susan did not allow any one to
walk with dirty boots. He must go away,
and so he did ; even an attempt to squeeze
Cordelia's hand in a tender manner being
frustrated by her giving his a hearty grip to
supply what might be lacking to her thanks.

However, it was not long to wait till
Thursday, when he would return ; and when
there was to be a little dinner-party at the
Warren, and Cordelia would be there. He
did not wish or intend to say anything particular
to her then ; but Thursday looked

#
bright in the distance, for Cordelia would be

there ! It would be only an ordinary dinner,
such as took place nearly every week among
the neighbours ; but how it was glorified, for
Cordelia would be there ! She had been present
on many such evenings at the Warren,
and he had seen her three or four times a
week all the summer ; but it seemed as it
this were to be a Special occasion, as if something
had happened when Cordelia put on the
pheasant hat.

Thursday came, surely enough, and so did
seven o'clock ; so did Sir John Somers, Charlotte
and Jock, Judith Carting and her father,
Mr. and Mrs. Stepney, who lived on the other
side of Maybury, and Mr. Odiarne. Cordelia
sat at Mayn't off-side, as he called it ; and
next to Mr. Carting, a handsome, heavy-dragoon
pattern of man, who always seemed on
the point of saying something very amusing,
and possibly a little risky. He never did, nor
went beyond the merest conventionalities ; but
his eves twinkled, and he had a manner that

was both deferential and confidential, so that
very few people knew how dull he really was.
Mrs. Stepney was a prettyish woman, rather
clever and rather peculiar. She put on her
not too clean lace in a picturesque fashion, and
wore her hair in two curls on her shoulders.
She liked to talk on out-of-the-way subjects,
especially to men younger than herself. Mayne
seemed attentive, but not responsive. When
Cordelia leant back, despairing of being able
to follow Mr. Odiarne's conversation at the
other end of the table, she had leisure to see
how grave and abstracted he really was, as he
bent politely towards Mrs. Stepney's near curl
and allowed her to go on about contemporary
evolution. He hardly spoke to Cordelia,
though he defended her from Mr. Carling's
mild jokes on her not drinking wine, and remembered
the biscuits and fruit she liked best.
In the evening, Cordelia, who no more sang
Neapolitan street-songs in the drawing-room at
the Warren, nor indeed elsewhere, established

'herself behind a big sofa, where she could
conveniently listen to Mr. Odiarne, as he
talked to Mr. Stepney about ancient lamps
and their emblems, and the specimens the
latter had lately brought from the catacombs
of Syracuse ; or, sad to record, she could enjoy
the mere looking at him, as he listened to
Charlotte Somers's playing. Presently Judith
Carling came near ; she took interest in Cordelia,
who was always ready to listen to her
vague, semi-religious divinations, without snubbing
her like Lettice, or offering over-sensible
advice like Mrs. Wastell ; but this time Mr.
Odiarne was to be the listener. She had been
reading some essays on Madame de Guy on and
the modern French mystics, and she opened
fire on Mr. Odiarne with a defiance. ' Could
he deny the lawfulness and value of mystic
speculation ? ' He cast about for means of
escape, suggesting that Miss Somers was beginning
to play. Judith was not keenly alive
to the fitness of things ; she sat down, remarking

that they could talk comfortably, as Charlotte's
pieces were always long, and asked
again : 

Is it not right to try to attain the utmost
possible height of interior illumination ? '

4 Then you would light the lamp within the
tomb, Miss Carling ? ' he asked, smiling.

Judith did not quite understand ; she had
listened to the previous conversation only with
impatience, wishing to begin her own subject.
She was fairly off now, with a long statement
in which words flew about that Cordelia could
not very well fit with meanings, ' perfection,'
'self-annihilation,' and Judith's favourite point,
6 the abandonment of the will,' which was
curious, as she seemed to have such a tight hold
on her own. Mr. Ocliarne said very little, only
throwing in a deprecatory word now and then :
% Is not that building without a foundation ? '
It requires a theological training to deal with
such a subject.' ' That sounds forced and
artificial.' Then when Judith was beginning

to think he knew nothing about it, he observed,
4 Bossuet forbade Madame de Guyon to write
books, to teach dogmatically in the Church, or to
undertake in any shape the guidance of souls.'

But surely she had great light, her interior
illumination was very strong.'

4 Undoubtedly she was a good woman; but
she was self-willed, and I think presumptuous.
Saint Theresa was another good woman, but
extravagant and profane ; people must be sensible
as well as devout, especially if they are
to be leaders and teachers

looked pained and puzzled. ' You
are very practical and prosaic,' she said.

4 It is a comfort to be called practical for
once, as I am so often accused of being on the
other side. Come, Miss Carling, let me try to
sum it up for you : mankind is always in one of
two extremes, faith or works, science or speculation,
reason or illumination, doctrine or practice ;
only in Christ do we find the true balance, only
in the Christianity of the Bible do we find the

VOL. II. c

right mean, and every side and tendency of our
nature fully considered and provided for ; as
He took on Him the nature not of one man or
of one class of men, but of all humanity. Herein
these Northern nations, men lean rather to
works than to faith, or, as they generally put it,
they like to be practical, and call me all sorts
of harmless names when I try to show them
the spiritual side that they neglect. Your mystic
and self annihilating friends are in the other
extreme ; they try for faith without works, and,
so far as I can judge from a very imperfect
acquaintance with a very old controversy, they
usually display a very complete and perfect
form of selfishness, and a very repulsive
amount of self-consciousness. I think you
have taken up a dangerous line of study, one
that requires an amount of previous knowledge
and theological learning with which I can
hardly credit so young a lady.'

Judith looked very small, but she had
enough of what Mrs. Wastell called ' grace, 1 to

say 'Thank you,' just as her hostess, seeing
grave looks and hearing weighty words, came
up to see who was getting the worst of it.
Mr. Odiarne, looking round, saw Cordelia, all
ears ; he said to her, ' All that is very mischievous
talk ; she means well, I suppose, but
oh dear, if people would only do a turn of
honest work, or gain an ounce of solid knowledge,
instead of living on froth, and inspecting
their own souls for ever. I shall not allow you
any such vasari.

Cordelia looked delighted at this little confidence,
and was lady to abjure mysticism forever,
without even the small preliminary of
knowing anything about it. Then Lettice came.

Come out of the corner, Cordie, and sing
Smiling Morn " with us ; send her, Cousin
Philip. Mayne is quite crusty to-night, I am
afraid Cocktail is seriously lame. A glee is the
only remedy.'

Let us have " Smiling Morn " for its own
sake : I will come and help,' said the Vicar,
c 2

CHAPTEE XVII.

MARCHING ORDERS.

Thus thei bee rewarded, that falleth into soche dolour and
care, in this foolish affection of mind, called Love.  Sullen,
1582.

When the guests were gone, the household,
including Cordelia, who was staying for the
night, gathered round the fire for a few
minutes' confidential talk ; but confidences did
not seem ready that evening : Mayne was
irritable, and found fault with Lettice's comments
; and Mrs. Wastell did not, as usual, put
in her word to save the peace  she knew
what was probably vexing Mayne.

Will no one tell me why I detest Mrs.
Stepney ; to see her is to hate her, and to
hate her is for ever  but why? she is not
exactly offensive,' said Lettice.

1 Her curl has a good deal to answer for."
said Cordelia.

1 There are plenty of worse people about
the world than Mrs. Stepney ; you are lucky
never to have come across them, Lettice,' s
Mayne, who immediately wished he had not
Bald it.

1 Look at the music, Lettice, " thick as
leaves in Vallombrosa :" I will help you to put
it away." Mrs. Waste! went to the other end
of the room and began to play softly on the
piano, while Lettice sorted the music, leaving
Mayne scowling at himself in the mirror, and
Cordelia on the rug. He must speak now. for
to put off would give too great an hemp]
to his delay.

1 Cordelia, I met your father at Eversden."

She rose quickly to her feet and stood by
him, quiet and resolved, as if to face bad
news. 'Major Carr's? He goes there sometimes.'


 Mrs. Lichfield was there, too.'

6 Was she ? How silly of her ! Duncan said
last year she was not to go. You saw them ! '

1 Mrs. Lichfield is very pretty.'

Yes. You know them now ; I told you
we are that kind of people. Mrs. Stepney,
indeed ? Her long curl is better than Sophy's
short ones. Oh, Mayne, what shall I do ? '

6 You need not take it as hardly as that.
You are you, Cordie, no one else.'

Cordelia shook her head ; Mayne's proposition
could not be contradicted, but it did
not comfort her. He went on to the root of
the matter. ' Of course, as they are your own
people, you must rub along with them somehow
; but you need not imitate all their little
peculiarities. I do not say I should like to
see you or Lettice just like your half-sister ;
but you are " half" on this side too, and you
can choose which style you will go in for.
Cheer up, little woman, things are no worse
than they were ! '

I think they are, when you know them,'

said Cordelia, sadly ; but, as usual, she did
cheer up when Mayne bade her, and his words
1 you or Lettice,' and ' half,' gave her some
heart ; and, after all, it was better that Mayne,
always kind and indulgent, should have seen
her people than Letter or Mr. Odiarne that
would have been too terrible.

Under this impression she went to bed,
far less unhappy than Mayne, who knew more
about it than she did. One evening in the
smoking-room, one lounge round the billiard-table
had sufficed to unveil Colonel Ashby's
character to an attentive spectator. Major
Carr, their host, had no womenkind of his
own household, but a cousin's wife was doing
the honours to three ladies, of whom Mrs.
Lichfield was one. Knowing that he belonged
to t those prigs, Cordelia's cousins,' Sophy
exercised all her fascinations on Mayne. She
rather despised this country heart, and did
not expect it to afford her much pastime ; but
she was much further from breaking it on her

own account, and much nearer to breaking it
on Cordelia's than she suspected.

Mayne tossed and pondered, doubted,
turned, and cogitated. His love was but a
lassie yet  which, instead of settling the
question, was the circumstance that complicated
it. She was so young that it might be
well for her and for himself to take her at
once and entirely away from the evil influences
of her family ; but she was also so young that
it might be well to be sure what she would
turn out like, if the undeniable likeness to her
father were more than outward, how deep
her present enthusiasm for good people might
go, how far her propensity for running away
might be hereditary or only accidental. If he
decided at last on the latter course, it was not
so much that the pathway was to himself
most full of thorns, nor that he loathed the
Colonel more than he loved Cordelia ; but
the restraining certainty that Cordelia did
not return his love, did not suspect it, was

not prepared for it, and, in a word, was not
thinking of that sort of thins; at all. How
provoking of her to look so womanly and so
winsome on this particular night, when the
carriage of her head and the tricks of her
manner brought Colonel Ashby freshly before
him ! Why were all the scanty good points
of that reprobate manifest in this daughter,
giving rise to grave speculation as to her inheritance
of bad ones ? Cordelia's peculiarly
sweet voice, with its perfect and sympathetic
intonation, had hitherto been a charm
in itself, lending a piquancy to, and stripping
off the vulgarity from, her odd expressions.
Quite as much as her handsome face had that
voice told on Mayne's heart, which was almost
as accessible by way of the ears as of the
eyes ; now he had heard the same tones, only
slightly roughened by years, and very tolerably
veiling their falseness, discoursing elegant
wickedness in the ears of the young men
assembled at his friend's house. Pah ! he had

never really liked Carr or his set  he would
not go to Eversden again.

The next morning was wet ; but Mayne
would not, according to custom when Cordelia
was there, compel Lettice to abandon her
duties and play billiards, not caring to be
again reminded of his bete noire. He went off
somewhere by himself in the wet, did not
appear at luncheon, and when he came in at
tea-time was vexed to find Cordelia had gone
back to Ivy Cottage, which was only to be
expected of her. Early in the day he had been
to see Miss Hooper, knowing that he should
find her alone. He told her of his encounter
with Colonel Ashby and Mrs. Lichfield, and
his estimate of them. He hoped Aunt Susan
would express an intention of keeping Cordelia
always with her ; but the old lady's ideas of
duty did not lead her in that direction. ' It
never answers to do people's duties for them,'
she said ; ' you do them harm by encouraging
their laziness and selfishness ; and, as the duty

is not lawfully your own, you are more than
likely to make a failure of that too. I will do
my best for the child so long as her father
leaves her in my charge ; but I shall not
oppose him when he wishes to recall her.'

You do not know what degree of bad
company he may think good enough for her,'
grumbled Mayne.

It is her duty to make the best of her
position. Of course there may come a point
at which she ought to give it up ; then I shall be
ready for her if I am living ; and if not, Mayne,
will you be trustee for what I leave her ? '

Does not Horley manage her affairs ? '

1 Yes ; but he is not much younger than I
am, and has plenty of trouble already with
Henry Stafford's money. I would willingly
leave you the money altogether, trusting you
to use it for her benefit.'

No, do not do that. There is only one
old Horley in the world, the risk of complications
is too great. If you make me her trustee,

Aunt Susan, I will promise you to do the best
I can for Cordelia, just as if she were Lettice.'

I know you will. Do not let that man
have my money for his betting. Then in five
or six years there will most likely be a question
of her marrying, and that will bring you
more trouble. I hope she will choose an
honest man.'

Cordelia heard nothing of this conversation
; she knew her father could live without
her in the winter as well as in the summer ;
she thought it probable he would spend this
winter in England, and then she would be at
liberty to stay at Maybury. She did not
know that he had not been fortunate at Doncaster
; nor was a trifling difficulty at one of
his clubs likely to reach her ears. Thus it
came like a thunderbolt upon her when one
Tuesday mornings wards the end of November,
a letter came from Mrs. Lichfield to say that
she and her father were starting for Mentone
at the end of the week ; if Cordelia meant

to come with them she must be at Dover
on Saturday evening ; they would cross on
Sunday to avoid a crowd ; Cordelia need not
come till Saturday, so as to incur as little
expense as possible at the hotel. She might
have been leaving another hotel for all the
message sent to Miss Hooper. Cordelia handed
the letter across the breakfast-table to her
aunt without comment.

" If you mean to come "  humph !
Cross ! on Sunday "  the heathen ! Much
expense they have been at for six months ! '
grumbled Aunt Susan as she read.

Next Sunday will be Mr. Odiarne's day
for lunching here,' said Cordelia, in a stricken
voice.

1 What do you say, my dear ? Mr. Odiarne
will not object to your travelling on Sunday,
when the plan is not of your making. Finish
your breakfast, child ; we will talk of it in the
drawing-room.'

8 1 have done, thank you ; ' and Cordelia

stared blankly at the butter till all Miss
Hooper's little arrangements of toast for the
birds, milk for the cats, and orders for the
cook were completed ; then, according to
now established usage, Cordelia gave her the
crutched stick and her own arm to the
drawing-room. Here the ferns must be inspected,
the garden surveyed from the window,
the barometer consulted, and the Psalms read.
At the end of the last, Aunt Susan went off
into a reverie. Cordelia took her low seat
near her aunt, and began to pull out locks
from the sheepskin rug ; there was a thin
place already where she had plucked at it in
moments of agitation, and now quite a baldness
began to appear under her restless hand.
4 Must I go, Aunt Susan ? ought I to go ? '
Dear child, does this come as a surprise
to you ? You know we old folks think of
everything beforehand, and few things surprise
us. I have thought of this for you, and I am
very sure you ought to go. I would gladly

keep you ; but I am sure your right place
is with your father at present. If I live, yon
will come to me when you are next in England ;
and if anything should occur to make it impossible
 I mean if your sister should happily
rejoin her husband, so that it is no longer
comfortable for you alone with your father 
I am ready for you at any time.'

4 Comfortable !  fancy comfort with  my
father ; it is the last word to use.'

4 It will have done you small service to be
here if you have learnt to think so bitterly of
your father,' said Aunt Susan, sadly rather
than reproachfully.

4 1 have learnt that it is wrong to think so,
and I try a little to mend it ; but I have learnt
the difference, too  ah, all the difference !

4 Well, dear, you have learnt the way ; now
you must walk in it.'

4 All alone ! ' Cordelia shrank ; but it was
not the loss of companions she feared, only
that she must let go the hand of her guide.

6 Not alone ! never alone. Even Elijah was
never alone. I do not think only of " the
means of grace," though they will never fail
you ; nor of the " angels and archangels," to
whom you may always join yourself  you
know when ; nor of the invisible company
that we who love you will always bear you ;
but I mean also the support and comfort and
encouragement that you will have from those
who travel the same way. When you see a
head bent in prayer, when you hear a voice
uplifted in praise, even when you see a face
brighten and soften with a holy thought or
made grave by an instant's recollections,
then you will know that you are not alone,
that the witnesses are around you 

Brother clasps the hand of brother,
Stepping fearless through the night.'

Miss Hooper's face shone with the inner
light, she looked far away at the things that
are not seen ; but, though vaguely encouraged
and impressed, Cordelia's spirit could not find

wings to follow that of the aged saint who
had already won so much of her victory.

The beginning of that November had been
fine and clear, with fair, pale skies and golden
woods, crisp rustling leaves and robins' songs ;
but now the rain had come, with fog one day
and with wind another, but always rain. That
Tuesday was one of the worst of the days ; no
visitor came to Ivy Cottage, and even Cordelia
could not go out without giving her aunt
more opposition than the case warranted. On
Wednesday the weather was, if possible,
worse ; it was a Sessions day, but Mayne
Wastell did not call on his way to or from May-bury.
He had not come so frequently lately ;
but Cordelia had not noticed this. She was
wholly set on some last words from Mr.
Odiarne, what she might venture to say, what
he would say to her, and her mind was entirely
filled with the prospect, to the exclusion of
the rest of the partings. It was Miss Hooper
who bade her write to Mrs. Wastell, to tell

VOL. II. D

her and Lettice how soon she must go, and to
Mr. Horley to appoint another interview.

The airless, inactive days made the tension
of her restless mind almost unbearable, and
she thought any change would be welcome,
when just in the dark she heard the click of
the gate, and the sight of a dripping clerical
hat over the dripping shrubs made her foolish
heart jump up, only to sink heavily below its
proper level when the wearer proved to be
Mr. Merridew. He had amiably looked in to
ask after Miss Hooper after a weary round of
cottages, this last duty brightened to him by
the prospect of seeing Cordelia. He was too
wet to sit down, but he stood steaming and
talking for a few minutes on the hearthrug.
Cordelia thought he would have gone away
without a word about Mr. Odiarne, and, try as
she would, she could not frame a message oran
inquiry ; Miss Hooper, however, was not
the woman to rest without news of her beloved
Vicar, and asked the question for her.

6 He has gone to Fenchurch to-day ; he is
to preach one of the sermons tomorrow at
the opening of a large new church there ; he
is staying with the Bishop. We think he is
sure of the next vacant stall in the Cathedral ;
for his preaching is very much noticed, and
his splendid work here, which is a much
greater thing, is at last attracting attention.
He will be a great man some day, to his own
surprise ; but he will always be more good
than great, for he never makes the smallest
fuss about himself. Miss Ashby, you are a
great favourite with the Vicar ; he will be
sorry you are going away.'

1 When does he come back ? ' she asked, in
desperation.

'On Saturday. Knox preaches on Friday
' Mr. Merridew went on ; but Cordelia

did not listen. What did the parish arrangements
signify to her now ? How far away
seemed this probable dignitary, this man
rising before the world's view, known in the
d 2

diocese, recognised in high places ! The quiet
Vicar of Maybury, who comforted old ladies
and taught ignorant girls, was quite another
and remote person seen in this light. A
dumb despair fell on her, and she found it
difficult to respond to Lettice's sorrow and
Mrs. Wastell's quieter but deeper regret when
they came next day. Lettice was disappointed,
and thought she could not be very
sorry to go ; Cordelia was always disappointing
to Lettice, whose love for her throve on
difficulties.

When Mayne called later, feeling mean
and miserable, and intending a short and
jaunty leave-taking, he was so overcome by
Cordelia's dim, unhappy face that he did not
take leave at all, but told Aunt Susan that he
should take her to Dover on Saturday  greatly
pleasing the kind old lady, but winning little
response from Cordelia.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A H OLD TALE TOLD.

When shall they meet ? I cannot tell.

Indeed, when they shall meet again,
Except some day in Para I

For this they wait, one waits in pain.
Beyond the sea of death love lies

For ever, yesterday, to-day ;
Angels shall ask them, ' Is it well ?'

And they shall answer ' Yea.'

C. Rossetti.

Cordelia went to the Warren on her last
afternoon, and collected her small possessions
there in a quiet, broken-hearted way. Mrs.
Wastell suspected that she was not telling all
her grief, but could draw little from her.

Come into my room and choose some
books ; when you are settled you must read
something steadily every day, to keep you
from falling into that desultory life again. It
is not enough for you, and will do you more

harm than it would to a shallower girl. Here
is Green's " History of the English People ; "
if you will read it together with Miss Yonge's
Cameos " it will be a good winter's work.
You would not find it dull  Appetite vient en
mangeant, as you have found.'

6 Thank you  I do not know  perhaps I
shall be able to read them. I shall have
plenty of time, to use as I like.'

You will put the books you have been
reading with Mr. Odiarne first? That is
right, and if something must be given up it
will not be those ; but it is not good for you
to read religious books only. I venture to
think that the general cultivation of all the
powers of her mind is of the greatest value
to a religious woman ; people are so apt to
think that a woman is religious only because
she has no intelligence for anything else, and
outsiders argue that because people of small
capacities and culture can be, and often are,
religious, therefore that religion is only fit for

such small wits and narrow minds. You
have a good clear understanding, and much
natural good taste ; it is your bounden duty
as a religious woman to cultivate both.'

4 Have I those ? I thought I was quite a
fool ; I have been told so often enough, and
since I came here I have found it out for
myself, as well as the quantities of things
there are to know ; but I thought, too, it was
best to let them all alone, and only think of
being good.'

You must not be narrow-minded, illiberal,
harsh-judging, seeing only a small fragment
of the great all-embracing truth, and incapable
of appreciating such large minds and
fine intelligences as you meet, either personally
or in books ; surely it is better to be a
wise Christian than a stupid one.'

I suppose so. Oh, cousin ! that is not
the question at all. I shall slip back into the
old ways ; I shall never keep on at all away
from  from all of you. I can never hold on.'

This is not a vale of innocence, nor are
all the good people in the world shut up here.
I could laugh at you, Cordie, for the exaggerated
idea you have of us all ; but now,
when our time for moralising is so short, I
must tell you bluntly that if you seriously
mean what you say, there must be something
wrong. The daintiest person, the fairest
dream of achievement for yourself, must not
stand to you in the Master's place ; and if the
practice of religion is not possible to you in
one place, it is not in another. Your going
away is a trial for you, but you must try
yourself and your life here to make sure that
you are building on the right foundation  if
you are not, no progress is possible, and you
must begin again.'

'You are very good and dear to trouble
yourself about me; I am not worth it.'

Bosnia's child is worth everything to me.
Among other things, I have to reproach myself
that I did not speak openly to her, and

did not make her feel her own value. Do
not let me have that sorrow over again,' said
Mrs. Wastell, touching the right chord.

Lettice came in just then. ' Cordie, have
you all our ugly photographs ? Here is my
honoured mother looking imbecile ; I am looking
cocky ; and Mayne as we may expect him
to do when he falls in love, only it is almost
too fatuous. Pray remember us as nicer
people when you look at them. Here are two
of the Warren ; one looks as if the family
had been removed to prison, and this, with a
group," as if we had been perpetrating a
wedding. Philip gives it that air ; he was here,
and we made him stand with us.' Cordelia
begged them all, and tried not to look as if
the last were the gem of the collection.

In order to put off the parting to the last
possible minute, Lettice walked nearly to
Ivy Cottage with her friend. After hopes
of meeting next year, and promises of correspondence,
Lettice said suddenly, * Would you

like me to say anything to Philip Odiarne
for you?' How Cordelia's face melted and
changed ! Lettice's heart smote her ; was she
not playing with edged tools ?

6 Oh yes, yes ! Will you really ? '
Of course ; it is no such mighty matter.
What shall I say?'

1 1 I Oh ! Lettice, I don't know ! '

Oh, Cor die ! I know ; but I will not tell
what I know, except that you are the very
biggest little donkey that ever cried for the
moon. What a frightful mess you have made
of it, you silly child ! There is nothing before
you but to get yourself out of it exactly as
quick as you can. Don't cry, for pity's sake ! I
never saw such a thorough-going little idiot
in my life ; but I will do  two things for you ;
one next week, when I will say something to

Philip for you '

No, no, no. You must not  Lettice,
Lettice ! '

Nonsense ! Do you think I have no

regard for your credit, and for a girl, like myself?
I shall say the right thing, and get you a
message or a letter  which is what you want,
I suppose. I will do another thing now, to
show the utter folly of you ; I will tell you
what I know of Philip's story. When he was
a young man, he had a friend, Lady Olive
Lylford. She was some years older than he,
a very noble and beautiful woman, very high-toned
and very highly trained ; she had always
lived among the very choicest people. Lord
Lylford was a poet and scholar, and reigned
in a small set of intellectual people, and her
mother was fit to be queen of a circle that was
exclusive in the best sense. Lady Olive was
something more, for she was very good, leading
a holy and self-denying life in the midst of
everything that would tend to make her selfish.
She must have been a very uncommon person.
I should like to have known her, though I
should have been very much afraid of her ;
but my mother says she was very sweet and

gracious. She had a very strong influence over
Philip, and was quite his ideal ; he was devoted
to her, and though she was older than
he, for many years he cherished the idea of
marrying her  what a pair they would have
made ! But poor Philip  when her father
died, and it would have been possible, he found
that she intended to go into a sisterhood, and
had lived by rule for many years with that
view from long before he knew her, and
marriage was no more among her plans than
it is among Philip's now. It . was her own
secret, and never spoken of, even in the
family ; but it was very cruel not to let Philip
know ; one can imagine him so superior and
highly strung that Lady Olive never guessed
that he was deeply in love with her, and of
course her being the elder would put her off
her guard. But it was cruel ! '

Where is she now ? ' asked Cordelia, who
seemed quite awestruck with these revelations.

She died about five years ago. She did a

lifetime of work in the fifteen years that she
was a Sister. Philip saw her frequently during
the last nine years of her life ; my mother
says her influence on him was very strong
then, and she thinks that now it is even
stronger, that he continually looks to meeting
her again. There, Cordie ! I have told you
all his secrets, and nearly made myself cry.
My mother told me this some time ago, to
stop all silly jokes about Philip's marriage ; it
has made me reverence him beyond any one I
know, and I am not given to hero-worship.
Don't you think you can make a saint of him,
and keep him strictly in that character ! '

Cordelia made neither note nor comment ;
but she took leave of Lettice with more
warmth and affection than she had yet shown
her, and Lettice on her part accepted her
cousin more completely than she had hitherto
done.

On the journey to Dover Cordelia was
meekly miserable for a time. Mayne sat

opposite to her waging fierce war with himself.
A fortnight before he fancied that if he
threw prudence to the winds and persuaded
Cordelia to engage herself to him, there was a
strong probability that the winds would blow
prudence back again, strengthened by the
trip. Now he took a different and more
generous view, implying that his love had
grown greater, deeper, and so more self-sacrificing.
What did he care for father and
sister ? He was strong enough to give an
account of them ; and he saw clearly now that
his love might be a sufficient remedy for all
her troubles, and could make her whole life
simple, straight, and happy, on the one only
condition that she should love him. Not only
was it plain that she did not love him, but he
had been quite unable to take any steps to
win her love. She was not thinking of him
in that way, and something he could not
name prevented him from trying to make her
do so. So he looked at the sad wistful face

turned constantly to the line of hills that hid
Maybury from her loving sight, and he failed
to decide on any line of conduct except that
imposed on him by circumstances ; he must
speed her on her journey, and be content with
impressing his own good-will and friendship
upon her.

1 Are you not cold, Cordie ? Let me tuck
you into this rug.'

She turned to him, and something in his
voice or look struck her.

'No, I am not cold. What a wretch I
am, when you are taking this horrid journey
for me, to be too sulky even to speak to
you ! '

1 It would be a horrid journey indeed if
you were glad to go away. I am the wretch,
for I am glad you are sorry. Cheer up,
Cordie ! You will soon be coming back.'

1 Then I shall be glad, and you will be
sorry,' she answered, perceptibly brightening.
I think you would say " Cheer up, Cordie,"

if I had the small-pox, would you not Mr.
Peggotty ? '

Of course, it would be most necessary.
You would cheer up even then, Mrs. Gum-ridge,
and you will now.'

'Yes, I shall have time to despond tomorrow,
when we are thumping through
France, so I need not quarrel with the last bit of
Maybury left. See what Lettice has given me

Her watch ! ' It was a fine old-fashioned
one, the case set with pearls and turquoise,
and worked with various coloured gold into
a delicate design of leaves and flowers.

Not hers. There were two that belonged
to twin-sisters of her grandmother, and came
to her with other pretty old jewellery. It is
so nice to have one like hers.'

I wish I had known that keepsakes were
going about, I would have given you one.'

You gave me the pheasant-hat.'

1 You will wear it out in three weeks,
and forget me in four. Here is another

family relic ; it was my own mother's spade-guinea.'


You must not give me that  you would
be sorry tomorrow, and want it back.'

I shall not give it to you ; but you are
to wear it for me till I ask you for it again.
You must be extremely careful of it, and
never lose sight of it, because it is not yours,
but mine. Let me see if it will be safe at
the end of that watchword.'

He sat beside her for the operation, putting
his hand over hers to facilitate it, and
holding it tight and close. ' There, that is
a charm ; it is to say " Cheer up, Cordie," every
time you fidget with it. If you lose it, you
are to write immediately and confess ; but
lose my property at your peril ! '

Colonel Ashby and his daughter did not
welcome Cordelia's escort with much enthusiasm.
He was inconvenient, and made a
regular dinner necessary for all the party ;
Mrs. Lichfield, not expecting him, had left her

VOL. II. E

face and her hair as well as her dress in
travelling negligee ; in the evening he showed
only a moderate interest in the billiard-room,
and no intention of returning to town by the
night train. This want of savoir vivre annoyed
the Colonel. It is true that Cordelia's
grown up dignity suggested a reason, and the
owner of Wastell Warren must be treated with
respect, even though he belonged to the hated
Maybury tribe ; but Colonel Ashby dared not
hope to get rid of his inconvenient daughter
and the last reminder of his mistaken second
marriage in this speedy way. If Mayne had
any such intentions, he would be more anxious
to please and propitiate the young lady's
father than he appeared to be this evening.
We must take leave of you to-night,' said
the parent, ' as we start at an early hour
tomorrow, and my young ladies will be occupied
with the care of their dressing-cases, supposing
that they are not so late as to miss
the boat.' Mayne appeared to take the hint,

bade the Colonel farewell without emotion,
and wished Mrs. Lichfield a good passage;
but his smile and good-night to Cordelia were
not like a final leavetaking.

There was a fuss and a worry next morning.
Colonel Ashby hunted them on board
early, and Cordelia was half fearing, half
hoping, that Mayne would not appear. It
was irritating to have to see each with the
eyes of the other ; she knew how her father
and sister would despise Mayne for a muff,
and a rustic, and a prig, and a goody young
man, and any other term that might express
their utter lack of sympathy with him ; while
what Mayne thought of her relations made
her hot with shame only to picture. Both
the latter were in a bad temper this morning,
with the early rising, the bill, the rain, and
the cloak-straps ; even Fero had wept,
and would not come near his aunt, who
looked to him as the sweet drop in a bitter
cup. But in a sloppy and smutty corner of

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSE OF ILLINOIS

the deck, Mayne came to her. His heart was
full of bitterness too ; for he could not regard
himself as either a faithful lover or a martyr
to duty ; still, if there was another look to be
had at Cordelia's bonny face, no small thing
should stand in his way.

So you have shipped yourself all aboard
of a ship, and found the most uncomfortable
place in it.'

I shall have it to myself. Oh, Mayne,
I wanted you to see Fero, and he has gone
below all screams and smudges ; you would
never believe how good and pretty he is.'

Poor little chap ! I will take your word
for him. It was to see you that I came.'

8 It was very, very good of you to come
with me ; but I almost wish you had not. I
suppose you need not tell  everybody at
Maybury, exactly what you think of my
people ? '

8 You may be sure I will not say a word
that you would not like,' said Mayne, with a

twinge. What did anybody's opinion matter
in comparison with his own ?

 What shall you do now ? ' asked Cordelia.


1 Do not tell ; I shall go to church, as
you would if you could. Then to the Castle,
where I have a friend. If he prove agreeable,
I shall stay till Tuesday, and get a
fit of longing to be a soldier airain, which
will make me very cross and nasty when I
go back to the pigs and poultry.'

1 Ah ! you will go back on Tuesday,
though.'

There are the London trains ! I must
be off. Cordie, have you my guinea ? Let
me see it.'

Here it is ; do you want it again ? '

1 Not now. You remember what it is to
say  " Cheer up, Cordie." Don't forget  us,
dear little girl ! '

He held her hand a minute, and then
bent down to kiss it  very shyly, at such

an unusual proceeding for a young Englishman.
He would fain have kissed her sweet
cheek for love, or the hem of her garment
for devotion, but neither course seemed quite
open to him at the moment. Then he went,
and Cordelia was surprised to find out how
very sorry she was.

Chapter XIX.

A WRONG TURN.

Bright lamplight for the butterfly,
And a burnt wing by-and-by.

D. G. Rossetti

Ik a fortnight the old life at Mentone was
resumed, but with a difference. Miss Ashby
was a recognised member of society, not the
neglected ' Corks ' of last season : she had
become extremely discreet and even prudish
in her demeanour, and her father and sister
treated her with some degree of outward
consideration. To this last end Mr. Horley
largely contributed ; after a consultation with
Miss Hooper and Mrs. Wastell, he decided on
giving Cordelia fifty pounds a year for her
personal expenses, continuing the former allowance

to Colonel Ashby. He also told her
to take what lessons or means of education
she pleased, and to write to him for money
to pay for them, within a certain specified
amount, and always sending him the receipted
bills. Cordelia was pleased to be trusted, and
much relieved to be independent  free from
Sophy's old gowns, and her former struggles
about boots and other necessaries. Mr.
Horley's precautions, and Aunt Susan's lectures
on thrift and the dangers of debt, gave
her a painful insight into the estimation in
which honest people hold those others who
do not pay their way.

Another bitter fruit of the tree of knowledge
came with observation of the circle
gathered round them at the Hotel des Citrons.
Now she knew what nice people really were,
and she looked on the companions of her
father and sister with weary disgust. Slangy,
shady, doubtful were the Englishmen ; absolutely
unproven and inscrutable were the men

of other nations. Few in numbers were the
women, and their excellence was not such
as to make up for their lack of quantity.
Hardly any unmarried girls were in this set,
and Cordelia had not an English friend of her
own standing. Of last year's party a few
remained ; but the blesses Greenley were at
Cannes, where they met some aunts of Captain
Lichfield, and gave them piquant details
about their nephew's wife and her sister. Cordelia
had resolved never again to call them
'Baldy' and 'Beaky,' but this was not tested.
The Gardens were in Mentone, but at another
hotel. Some one told them that Miss Ashby
had become ' devote.' ' Deja ! ' said Madame,
making an unconscious plagiarism. ' Quel
dommage ; une si belle personne ! ' said Monsieur,
regretfully.

Cordelia arranged a little plan of life for
herself, which she began on very fairly, considering
that she had filled it much too full.
It was easy to find time in the morning for

reading ; and Lettice's example, scoffed at and
scorned in that thorough-going young woman's
presence, was humbly followed in her absence
with some useful needlework. A chance word
from Mr. Odiarne had suggested Italian for a
study, and Cordelia was fortunate in finding a
master who, in teaching her his language,
taught her many things besides, and in a fuller
and more interesting way than worthy Miss
Spenser ever attained unto. Some singing
lessons, too, were vigorously studied for, and
were animated by the hope of being better
able to join in the Warren singing in the
bright days to come. Ah ! this winter would
not be so bad ; she would learn a quantity of
things, so that ' they ' should see great progress
; it was not hard, thinking of ' them '
every day ; there was dear, kind Mayne's
guinea to finger, real gold, like himself. Good
Mayne, he was almost like a lover that last
day ! And how shocked he would be at her
for thinking of such a thing ! But he was ;

and any one looking on would have thought
the same ; it was rather nice too.

Then, besides the lessons, dearer, deeper,
more secret than all, was the religious observance
to which she had been directed ; to this
she clung as to the very precious treasure
which she had received from dear hands; what
a warmth and glow came with every part of it,
and what sweet thoughts crowded in! Surely
she was making the best of progress, she was
touching the very end and aim of her life. All
her work, as well as this task of devotion,
which she fancied was the mainspring of all,
was pursued with nervous and even excited
energy. Little difficulties, such as Sophy's
refusal to perform her manifest duty of
chaperonage at lessons, and Colonel Ashby's
insurmountable dislike to the sounds of music
practice, were smoothed away, partly by Cordelia's
invincible good-will, and partly by an
alliance with a German girl, who had fine
eyes, a wide mouth, a demonstrative collar,

and a superabundance of sentiment. Cordelia
practised on Fraulein Helena's piano ; and the
two girls took their language lessons together,
at first in the Ashbys' salon, and then in the
garden, in Helena's room, or wherever they
could find a refuge ; for Colonel Ashby,
coming in one day with a friend of distinction,
discovered the luckless Helena eating cake and
puzzling out an Italian exercise with abundant
Ja ' and ' So,' while Cordelia, with an inky
finger, wrote from her dictation. He afterwards
commanded that Helena should never
again appear in his presence ; and Cordelia, as
she scrubbed her finger, felt that for a second
offence it would probably be cut off by order
of her august parent.

Twice a day Cordelia enjoyed a really
thrilling sensation, at the times for the English
post. She could hardly watch for anxiety
when Charles, the concierge, came in with his
bundle of letters and papers, wearing ' a smile
that was childlike and bland,' yet penetrated

with his own importance, bestowing each letter
as if it were a personal favour from himself,
and apologising with candour and feeling to
those whom he must reluctantly disappoint.
A letter from Aunt Susan was in its dry formality
a curious contrast with the writer's
kindly self. It was a momentous effort for
her to write to foreign parts ; she was unable
to picture her niece's present surroundings,
and she was convinced that the little daily
matters in which Cordelia's heart would have
delighted were unworthy of being transmitted
to a strange land. It was comforting to <zet
such a labour of love, but it increased rather
than satisfied the homesick craving of her
heart. Then ]airs. Wastell, yearning over this
stray child of her love, wrote a long motherly
letter, divining all things that Cordelia would
like to hear, except the one thing that obscured
all the rest. She told of Mr. Odiarne's
comings and goings, of his sermons, of a parish
difficulty that had its comic side ; but there

was no word  would there never be a word ?
from him to Cordelia. She began to feel
that her whole existence hinged on this  and
yet what could she expect him to say ?

At last it came, one evening, in a letter
from Lettice ; Cordelia found there was an
enclosure, and put the whole in her pocket,
for she could not read it there, nor could she
at once escape from the Babel of the salon.
Germans to the right of her volleyed and
thundered, in a chorus, only interrupted by
some one speaker, who, by superhuman effort
getting the word to himself, declaimed to his
fellows in the regular rhythm and cadence
that marks earnestly-spoken German. Swedes
to the left of her kept up a softer, but more
continuous, rush and hurtle ; keen piercing
phrases of French rushed sharply through
the air like arrows ; while the main body of
English rose and fell, powerfully but disjointed,
in short speeches, grumbling tones,
and hearty laughs. ' Charged sixty francs

for those uncomfortable rooms '  ' Won two
hundred thousand francs, and sent the plunder
at once to England '  ' Thought a princess must
be a royal highness, and then took her for the
dairy-woman '  ' The best chest-plasters you
can possibly use '  fc Complain at the bureau '
' Yellow satin, and poppies as big as washing-basins
'  ' Walked to the top of the Berceau
with him, and then found his father was a
tallow-chandler ; they were obliged to comedown
together after that '  ' Four times running
on the black '  ' No drainage simply, and
draughts enough to cut your throat.'

At last Cordelia got away and ran up to
her room with her prize. It w T as a long letter
from Lettice, full of girlish talk, and much less
seasoned with good advice than her conversation
; in the end she said, ' The reason I did
not write to you before is that I waited to be
able to send you the enclosed ; it is too benevolent
of me, considering my views and what
a little kafoozlum you are. Philip was very

sorry that lie did not see you again, and said
some pleasant things about you  at luncheon
in a most paternal and benevolent way.
He hoped you would not forget his and Mr.
Knox's lessons, and wished me to give you a
message to that effect, with his very kind
regards. I knew that would not do at all,
and when I had him to myself in the drawing-room
I made him write you this little note. It
is not sealed, but I have not read it, on my
honour as a gentlewoman. Mayne came home
as cross as two sticks and without his spade-guinea.
He says he has neither lost it nor
given it away, and I had better turn my
powerful mind on my own affairs ; so I do,
but there is a loose end to his watch-chain
where the guinea was that reminds me of
you.'

That precious little letter ! She had
waited so long for it, she had dreamt of
what it might contain till all reason and
possibility had fled from her dreams ; now it

lay on her lap, and she would not open it yet,
because she knew her visions must fly from
before it as they had always flown before the
writer's actual presence. Well, of course,
when she did read it, she found it was the
kindest and pleasantness little note in the
world. It expressed regret that the writer
had not bidden her good-bye, a hope of
seeing her again and of resuming his interrupted
instruction. He told her of the
pleasure he had taken in so earnest and
attentive a pupil, and of his hope, his conviction,
that she would steadfastly follow the
better path in which she had set her feet.
Then he summed up his teaching in a few
grave words, that gave a rule of life for herself
and a direction of her devotion to the
Master's only service ; and he ended with the
pastoral blessing of ' her faithful friend Philip
Mayne Odiarne.'

That was all ! What could there be
more ? Yet Cordelia's heart dropped down

VOL. II. F

like a stone, and she felt as if she had
received a blow that shattered the very
foundations of her inward life. After a time
she went to bed in a kind of stupor ; she
could not read, she dared not pray, even the
old childish form from her mother's manual
would not come to her. She slept, as people
do after a mental shock, and she got up in the
morning to the same sense of overthrow and
ruin. She saw clearly now where her mistake
had been, and she thought she saw that it was
complete, irretrievable. She would go back
and take up the reckless life of six months
past  the intervening time had been all
wrong, false, deceiving ; she would try not
even to think of it  it should have no influence
on her conduct. So her best books
were opened no more, her plan of private
observance and devotion was dropped ; she
went no more to church, where she had felt
so close to Maybury ; even her new custom of
teaching prayers and hymns to little Fero was

given up. She had hitherto managed to avoid
a visit to Monte Carlo, nor would she play any
game for money in her sister's salon, earning
thereby abundant sneers from Sophy, and her
father's calm contempt. Xow she would do
as the others did, and to her relatives' surprise
accepted a seat in their carriage the
next time they drove to the gaming-house.
She did not, however, rejoice in their approval.

1 am glad you have come to your senses,
and I hope you will not be so absurd again,'
remarked Mrs. Lichfield, unpleasantly.

Some little scruple acquired among the
over-righteous at Maybury, I suspect,' said
Colonel Ashby, with an indulgent smile. c I
am glad that you begin to show better taste,
and to appreciate the value of the social rule
which bids us at Koine do as the Romans do

It is not easy to face completely round and
change one's course in life. If we turn from
evil to good, and strive to breast the hill that
we have been gaily descending, the difficulty

is admittedly immense ; but it is also neither
easy nor pleasant to reverse the process, take
the wrong turn, and go downward again ; our
own weight will carry us down certainly,
but we get bruised and shaken by the way.
Cordelia had been climbing conscientiously,
and her face had been very earnestly set
upwards, though she had been looking to a
point just above her, instead of to the true
summit, and she could not turn round without
severe pain. Fero cried when his Cordie
would not come to him at night to hear his
prayers and tell him a Bible story ; and,
although the matter was in her own hands,
she too cried when she went prayerless to bed.
In a few evenings Fero began to think of
something else, and Cordelia ceased to cry,
but she felt dreadfully and increasingly unhappy.
The sight of Monte Carlo brought
back, not the old careless days, but the exploit
at the tables of which she had since
learnt to be so deeply ashamed. Her new

code of manners, which could no more be
thrown off than her additional year of life,
forbade her to wander about the gardens by
herself and gaze out to sea, as she would
gladly have done ; and by staying near Mrs.
Lichfield and her friends old sights were seen
in new lights, not in the least to their advantage.
The winter afternoon was chill and
grey, and there was wind enough to curl the
waves about the point of ' Cap St. Martin.'
The day they spent at Sandbay came sharply
into Cordelia's mind as they drove back to
Mentone ; she recalled even the fresh salt
smell of the bay where they sat on the rocks,
though no corresponding odour reached her
from the tideless Mediterranean. Lettice had
not quite liked her singing ' Eternal Father '
then ; suppose she were to sing it now  what
would her father say, and Yon Lensky, whose
sword-carved visage was executing crooked
smiles at Mrs. Lichfield from the back seat of
the landau, as he asked permission for his

cigar ? What a convulsion it would throw
them into, worse than when she sang that tipsy
little song at the Warren dinner party ! How
odd that she should always want to sing the
wrong thing ; why could she not suit herself
to her company? She remembered how Mrs.
Longley's face had changed at her song ; would
Yon Lensky's do the same if she began ? And
what pressing need there was for her to cry
aloud, and now to Him who was ' strong to
save ! ' A turn in the road, a remark from one
of her companions, and the half hysterical
fancy was gone ; but the call for help had
been made, after an instinct and habit that
had already become stronger than her will.

Gone ASTRAY.

La science de la vie ne s'improvise point ; elle est pour
chacun le fruit d'une experience que rien ne replace.

L. Enault,

A few days later, just as the soup was served
on Saturday evening at the table (Thdte of
the Hotel des Citrons, the Hon. George Kingdon
took a vacant chair opposite Colonel
Ashby's party. He was welcomed with joy,
and Cordelia, taken by surprise, could not
refuse his greeting. He did not appear
i<> notice her suddenly crimson face, which
showed she had not profited by Caro Somers's
lecture on the use and abuse of blushing;
nor did he make any allusion to having met
her in England.

I am staying at my old place, and came

here to dine as the readiest way of seeing
who was about of the old set. I met your
friend the Marquis as I came in, Mrs. Lichfield.'


6 Yes ; Vichy has made him young again,
and, if possible, more frisky than ever. Sir
Charles and the stout Major have come ; and,
now you are here, we may consider our party
complete.'

I was very nearly lost to you, in a way
you would not expect. Life is short ; do not
let us lose any time, but go to Monte Carlo
tomorrow afternoon. Shall you have room
for me in your carriage ? '

'I do not know; the Belfields are going
with us, and Cordelia  well, Cordelia is uncertain
; she has goody-goody attacks, obstinate
for a time, and then curing suddenly.
You used to be able to manage her ; perhaps
you can bring her to reason now,' said Mrs.
Lichfield, who did not want Cordelia the
next day.

I shall not go tomorrow,' said Cordelia,
who divined her notwithstanding.

George glanced at her. ' If yon have no
room I will go over with Sands, and the
more the merrier.'

1 Oh, no ! Never mind Cordelia ; she has
spent the summer with some amazing crowd
of old women and parsons, and the effect has
not quite rubbed off yet.'

To avoid the probable card-party in their
sitting-room, and to find safety in numbers,
Cordelia went into the salon after dinner ;
but she was wrong in her calculations, it was
near full moon, and Mrs. Lichfield took a prolonged
walk in the clear white radiance with
Mr. Kingdon ; and then, before Cordelia had
in the least made up her mind over the false
position she was in between the interview
in Crooketts Lane and her recent collapse
and visit to Monte Carlo, he dropped into an
armchair beside her, and the difficulty must
be faced.

'I have come to make my peace with
you for my grievous sins at Maybury. You
brought me to my bearings by scudding away
like that, and ever since I have been thinking
what a little brick you were to speak to me
so, and what a brute I was to  to laugh.
You know I did not understand at first. I
am so awfully sorry. Will you make it up,
and be friends again ? '

Yes, yes ; I was very wrong ! I did not
understand either, and I ought not to have
spoken to you so,' answered Cordelia, with
the generous instinct that always meets an
apology half way.

Yes, you should. It was very good of
you to care what became of such a hopelessly
bad lot as I am. I felt that all the time ;
but you riled me by quoting your parson. I
liked your pretty little preach very much ;
but I do not pretend to be magnanimous, and
cannot stand another fellow being held up tome.
Have you given that pious party up ? '

Simple honesty made Cordelia give a little
sign of assent to this, but twenty compound
feelings pinched her heart as she did so.
What had she done r A week ago she had
a whole fearful of words to pour out, and
now  nothing ; nor could she even make
George understand what her position was last
Augusts

All right, we will not quarrel again, and
if you like to lecture me you shall  anything
rather than that you should cut me, Corks.'

Don't call me so ! I hate it ! '

Then I won't ; you do not look it quite
either, now. Am I to say " Miss Ashbv " ?
That will be severe.'

Yes, please.'

Very well. But you will know that I
think of you as Sister Cordelia.'

1 Not " Sister." That is for really good
women ; it means too much to be used fora
joke.'

1 As you please. I only warn you that

if you give up calling me George, I shall be,
not angry, but really hurt, and know that
you do it on purpose to hurt me. Ah! I
thought you would disclaim that intention.
Now I want to ask you a question. You
remember what you said to me in that lane,
before I was fool enough to make you shut
up ? I remember it all. Now tell me, do
you still hold to it for yourself; can you
keep it up ? Here, among all this  and with
your people, it must be difficult ; but does it
answer ? Can you hold on ? '

What a flood of shame and sorrow, confusion
and distress swept over the poor little
would-be apostate, who bowed her head before
this half careless questioner ! It was too deep
and sharp a pain for her usual blushes ; she
turned quite pale, and George saw tears in
her eyes.

Never mind ! I have no right to ask
questions, and the last thing I wish is to
vex you again. Good-bye to my old chum;

and good-night to my new friend, Miss
Ashby.'

Good-night, George.'

George Kingdon looks frightfully worn
and thin. I wonder if his money matters are
troubling him. His health is very bad too,'
said Mrs. Lichfield, later in the evening.

4 He does not look worse than half the
men who come here ; a robust person is
almost vulgar,' said Colonel Ashby, taking
a consolatory survey of his judiciously fed
figure in the glass. ' He has had too much
pace on lately ; if he does not pull up soon
there will be the usual smash, and we shall
see him no more.'

That will be rather a pity, I used to
like George ; but he is not nearly so nice
as he used to be,' answered Mrs. Lichfield,
casually. An Austrian baron, with the ugliest
face, the finest figure, and the most distinguished
manners on the Eiviera, was devoted
to her just now, and George was of no

further importance than that she did not like
to see him quite content with Cordelia.

You must use your gentle influence to
induce him to reform. He is only a younger
son, and his prospects will not bear tampering
with.'

Oh ! my influence is nothing with him
now. You had better give the pious work
to Cordelia ; she is his chief friend.'

Cordelia kept behind the entrenchment of
silence that was her usual defence from the
casual attacks of her family. Colonel Ashby
turned upon her fiercely.

1 Cordelia ! Yes, Cordelia, of course.
There is something peculiarly annoying in
the way Cordelia conducts her acquaintance !
Always the wrong person, the most unprofitable,
the most distasteful ! Now understand
me, Cordelia ; you have had far too much
liberty, and it is time you should conform to
the usages of society. It is all very well for
young Kingdon to devote himself to your

sister  a married woman of course has her
freedom, it is a recognised thing ; but your
case is entirely different, and it shows a great
want of savoir vivre that you do not appreciate
this. An unmarried girl is so soon spoken of,
as I do not choose my daughter to be ; her
chances in life are gone in a moment if she
allow herself these indiscretions. Do you
understand me ? '

1 No, I do not.'

1 Good heavens, what incurable rusticity !
You oblige me to speak with absolutely brutal
plainness. It is becoming year by year more
difficult to marry well ; and as, owing to the
grasping cupidity of your mother's family,
who perhaps can hardly be expected to understand
the requirements of a gentleman  as,
owing, I say, to their avarice, you cannot be
said to have any money at all, you positively
cannot afford to throw away the smallest
chance. I am not ambitious ; I shall be content
with any fairly good settlement for you,

seeing how difficult a really satisfactory marriage
is, and how deplorably clumsy you are
in using such advantages as you have ; I shall
not be difficult to satisfy  but I will have
no tampering with unsuitable persons. May I
hope that I have reached your comprehension
at last ? '

4 Yes, I understand. No reasonable offer
will be refused ; and I am not to meddle with
Sophy's admirers, even when she has done
with them, or they with her.'

Cordelia retired after this shot, with outward
dignity ; but to herself she said, ' What a
wretch I am ! What a spiteful thing to say !
What a hateful cat I have grown ! It would
not be possible to say such a nasty thing as
that in the whole parish of Maybury  and 
why should I mind what I say ? I have done
with all that now ; it is too silly to mind.'

But she did mind, and so much that the
strain upon her was too great for her to bear
alone. At Maybury she had been taken off her

own hands in a natural and wholesome manner ;
motherly, sisterly, brotherly kindness had been
around her, and she had never been left to
the dangerous liberty of ' eating her heart.'
Now she was cast on her own resources at the
moment of her sharpest trial, and she stood
between two fires ; for every recollection of
Maybury was turned to poisoned pain, while
the unconscious perception, wisdom, and grace
acquired there made her old way of life, and
all these present things, seem mean, hateful,
and abhorrent to her. And those deep
highest, best things of all, were they to be lost
to her just as she was beginning to-rasp them
and understand? For she had desired them
truly  ah, yes! there was the very core oi
her pain ; she meant it  she meant it !

For a few days she was really ill, suffering
from headache, and a cold that had seized her
because she was too unhappy to throw off
such a chill as her usual vitality would have
made light of. Mrs. Lichfield cared for her

VOL. II. G

on the principle that sick people do not like
to be worried, and as Cordelia's sky parlour
was next to the room used for Fero's nursery,
Therese could easily attend to her. So there
was time for reflection, and to find out, if she
could, where she had gone astray. Bound and
round went her thoughts, so new to this painful
exercise and discipline, and never a conclusion
could she reach. Chiefly she pondered
over the story Lettice told her of Philip
Odiarne's early love, and his devotion to that
blessed lady who was so far removed by time, by
sanctity, and by death from this presumptuous,
foolish, ignorant, vainly dreaming little girl ;
the lofty lady, his Beatrice, to whom, when
his mortal love was crossed, he had looked
up for comfort, encouragement, and uplifting,
and for whom  strange, humbling thought 
he had perhaps felt some of those feelings that
Cordelia felt for him now ! That idea was not
without its consoling sweetness. Sister Olive
had hardly been further removed from the

lover whose love she had never understood
than Mr. Odiarne was from his humble,
devoted, loving pupil ; but he had been faithful
to the faith they shared, he had followed
her leading when she was almost beyond his
sight  and nothing, not even death, could
spoil such a love as that, love that was part
of the wonderful hidden life that Cordelia was
beginning to understand now that she was
turning away from it.

She had reached this point in her meditations
one evening when she was a little
better, feeling that perhaps she might take
comfort if any one were there to give it, and
suffering a great longing for Lettice and her
bracing treatment, when Therese came to her :
Therese, with her sad, noble Mentonese face,
her kind, grave simplicity, and her slow, painstaking
French, 'Will Mademoiselle have the
goodness to come to the little one ? He is
ill, he has fever, he weeps for Mademoiselle ;
no one else can calm him, and he desires so

G 2

strongly to say his prayer, it would cleave a
stone to hear him.'

Fero had been ailing all day, and, growing
restless towards evening, he mourned for
his aunt, who for some time past had avoided
his bedtime. She went to him, and the little
fellow raised his flushed, tear-stained face from
the pillow and hid it on her bosom. ' Cordie,
Cordie ! Cordie ! say " Our Father " for me ! '

4 1 will, my precious one  hush, then, hush.'
She soothed him a little, for he was a delicately-organised,
over-sensitive child, and his grief
was too deep for his years. He would have
no form omitted, and was wrapped in a shawl
to kneel on the floor while Cordelia knelt
beside him ; but he was not able to say more
than the first words of his prayer  Cordie must
say it for him ; and, with a strange tightness of
the heart, she said the simple form that at her
request Mr. Odiarne had given her for the
child. He hung on her words, with his little
hot hands clasped over hers, and when she

had finished said, ' Xow say " Our Father "
again for Cordie, because she has been crying.'
She obeyed, and said it as she had not done for
many weary days. Then she took him in her
arms, as he asked for his hymn, ' Cordie, sing
There's a Friend for Little Children "  is there
a Friend for Cordie, too ? '

4 1 hope so, darling ; yes, I am sure ! '
The words were like dew on her thirsty
spirit, wearied out with doubting and pondering
; she sang them softly, and more softly,
till the child dropped asleep in her arms, and
then she sang them again as. she went to bed
and fell asleep herself.

CHAPTER XXI.

FROM OVER THE FENCE.

Tous ceux qui marchent sur la terre
Out soif a quelque heure du jour.

Lamartine.

What do you do at Mentone ? ' wrote
Lettice Wastell. ' I should hate it  sitting in
the sun till you are brown outside and flabby
inside, like badly-made toast, and meeting
stores of people you never hope, or hope
never, to see again, and to whom you are not
of the smallest use nor consequence. That is
not a life to tempt me, even if varied by
the tin charms of a Continental piano, or by
making sketches of a blue sky, a bluer sea,
a lilac mountain, and a pink villa ; I would
rather listen to Judith Carling on the mystical
element in religion, as I have done this

afternoon. I wonder what people say about
that when they know what they are talking
about. She has come to S. Theresa now, and
my hair stands on end at the things she say ;
even my mother is a little shocked. I used to
like S. Theresa, for I thought she had common-sensible
ways of goodness ; but Judith has
some Roman life of her that is too much, and
I hope it will be long before I hear of her
again. My mother's appetite for promiscuous
goodness is getting morbid ; some Roman
Sisters Plymouth brother, and his Plymouth
aunt, and an amazing spinster who makes
many converts by the simple means of small
bouquets tied up with texts and given to sick
persons like a specific, have been here lately,
besides Judith ; and my mother has been so
sweetly sympathising to them all. that I amin
deadly fear lest they should all return at
once to claim her for their own.

Do write to me, if only to describe the
sea, but do not say it is of a peacock-blue ; it

may be, but the upholsterers have appropriated
the word. Do not put us off with
perfunctory notes to Aunt Susan ; you might
say something good or bad about yourself if
you chose. Aunt Susan has had a severe
shock, one of the old maids is going to be
married ! not French  that would be too great
a convulsion  it is Harby ! As soon as she
could speak, Aunt Susan asked if it were
an old lover. "No 'm, not one of them,"
said Harby, modestly ; " I've not known him
long ; but men is so curious. There's some as
follows and follows, and never proffers at all,
and there's some as never follows but proffers
off-hand." Aunt Susan speaks roundly, and
calls her a tom-fool.'

This was part of the letter that Cordelia
received soon after the incidents of the last
chapter, bringing such a bracing whiff of
Maybury atmosphere that some of the cobwebs
were blown out of her brain, if only by
laughing at Harby 's romance. She was

better, too, though still weak enough to be
allowed to please herself as to her goings and
comings. They would not have put it into
words, but both father and sister felt they
could trust her now. Sometimes she would
go into the English church, finding comfort
and a home feeling, though she no longer
tried to follow the services ; but she could lean
her aching heart upon the Presence there,
however dumbly ; she did not think there
could be anything of the nature of a prayer
in her constant cry, ' I was sincere, I tried
with all my might ; must I let it all go ? '

One day, George Kingdon, coining up to
the Hotel des Citrons, met her in the garden.
1 What have you been doing, Miss Ashby ?
you do not look the right thing exactly.'

4 1 have not been well ; I am better now.'
She spoke shortly, for the kind word, coming
suddenly, was almost too much for her.

4 Will you come on the Castella ridge with
me now ? I was going over to the old place ;

but I have somebody's own luck just now,
so it will be a kindness to take me for a
pastoral toddle instead.'

What a good fellow poor George was,
turning his haggard face towards her in his
anxiety to do her a kindness, and put it in
the light of one done to him ! Why had he
forfeited her trust in that provoking way at
Maybury? As that was so much her own
fault she ought to forgive him, who last year
was her only friend. It was sneaks, too, to
give him up, when her own attempt in the
direction of better ways had so miserably collapsed.
These reflections were made quickly,
and she did not appear to hesitate. ' Yes, I
will go. Wait till I fetch my hat.'

In a minute she returned without it. 'I
am sorry, George, but I cannot go.'

1 Oh ! just as you please.'

Don't be vexed. I meant to go, and I
should like it ; but I had forgotten something.'

4 1 hoped you had forgiven something ; but

I see Miss Ashby is too good now to take a
stroll with a mere sinner.'

Xo, no, it is not that ; but '

Don't apologise ; you do not go, that is
enough.'

1 Xo, it is not. I would rather tell you
than vex you. It is my father, he will not like
it ; he gave me a lecture on savoir-vivre the
other day to the effect that I am not to
rampage about with you any more.'

The idea of the Colonel's interference was
funny, and Cordelia looked with a smile to see
if George shared her amusement, but he did
not respond to it. ' It used not to be necessary
to ask the Colonel's permission for such
a trifle. You have become a very dutiful
daughter among your parsons and old women
at that confounded place ! '

He expected her to walk away with her
head up, as her custom had been when he
teased her too much ; but she only looked
pained and sad, so that he felt himself a brute.

Colonel Asliby came out just then ; his
aspect was not benign when he saw the two in
conversation. ' How can you stand here in
the sun, Cordelia? If you do not yourself
care for your appearance, you might remember
that I do not appreciate the charge of a
young woman who positively looks as if she
had been working in the fields.'

Cordelia fled. Next day she had the
pleasure of hearing her father say that George
Kingdon had lost heavily at Monte Carlo the
evening before.

At Mentone the invalids and the pleasure-seekers
fall naturally into two very distinct
sets. They breathe the same bright air and
bask in the same sun, they grumble at the
same dust and listen to the same green frogs ;
but there the sameness ends. They live indifferent
hotels, they keep different hours,
they frequent different walks, and their acquaintance
is mainly within different circles.
The health-seekers are a sad study enough :

each pale face has an anxious one beside it,
more quickly observant of sunshine and shade,
more keenly alive to draughts and smells,
more intrepid in securing the best positions,
and more fiercely indignant at being outwitted
in the struggle for the most sheltered
corner or the sunniest seat. Husbands are
with sick wives, wives with sick husbands ;
often a pair of sisters, alike, yet sadly differing,
one upright and vigorous, the other pale and
feeble ; sometimes  most touching of these
pairs  mothers, with their sick sons, watching
the fading of their most cherished hopes. Yet
none of these are quite so sad to see as the
lonely ones, with no one to watch for them,
to walk by their wheel-chairs, to secure their
seats, to carry their wraps, or to divert the
brooding thoughts, and induce such short
forgetfulness of pain and weariness as may be
possible. The athletic walkers pass briskly
by ; merry parties ride past bound for distant
beauties of mountain and forest ; carriages

rattle along, with jingling bells and cracking
whips, raising clouds of dust ; flannel-clad
parties from the yachts wander about with
the air of having touched on a new planet ;
but seldom a word, a glance, or even a
courteous turning aside, shows sympathy with
these forlornness ones, who by their Bethesda
have no one.' Perhaps it is to them that the
Master speaks the first.

Cordelia often noticed one of these lonely
invalids in the church  a lady of about fifty
years of age, with a faded, beautiful face, and
particularly large dark eyes, that retained
their clear, calm, and hopeful look in the
midst of lines of age and pain. Something in
the steadfast look of these eyes reminded
Cordelia of Mr. Odiarne, and something in
the expression of the bent head brought to
her mind Aunt Susan's saying that she would
never be alone while she could see a Christian
a t prayers. She had singled out this
lady from the crowd, and took a private interest

in her, watching lier goings and com-with
quiet pleasure. One morning the
invalid left a shawl upon her chair in the
church, and Cordelia, glad of the occasion fora
trifling service, followed her out with it. In
thanking her, she said, ' 1 wonder if you will
be kinder still, and lend me your strong young
arm so far as the seat yonder? My maid has
not come yet, and it makes me quite miserable
to cross the road when so many carriages
are passing.'

Cordelia gladly gave her help, the lady
saying, ; I often see you in church ; we cannot
be quite strangers when we meet there, can
we ? '

What a bright fresh voice, and what feeble
footsteps and faltering breath !

- 1 have often wished to know you ; I know
no one who comes here to church," said Cordelia,
with a feeling that she was making an
immense effort.

1 Let us know each other then. Sitting on

this bench we need not stand on ceremonies 
my name is Harriet Carslake, spinster, much
at your service.'

I am Cordelia Ashby.'

Miss Carslake glanced curiously at her.
Were you here last winter ? I was, but I do
not remember seeing you.' She did not know
Cordelia by sight, but she had heard her
name too often, and remembered the Monte
Carlo story which had last year filled her with
regret.

8 We have been here two winters ; I used
to scamper about a good deal, but I hardly
ever went to church.'

6 And now ? ' asked her new friend,
gently. Cordelia flushed hotly, and her eyes
swam.

Miss Carslake changed her question. ' You
must know a good many people, for Mentone
is a wonderful place in that way, every one
comes here sooner or later ; I have a much
larger circle of acquaintance than I have

strength for ; and yet, if you will, I should
really like to add you to it.'

1 Please do, I wish it very much ; I want
to know some one who is good, only I am not
good myself at all.'

1 That will be a pleasing variety for me ;
my friends here are almost too good, or, I
had better say, good too much after one
pattern. Here is my Jane and the Bath-chair.
Come and talk to me next time you see me
here.'

A severely respectable maid, with the
likeness to her mistress that often cones with
long and true service, now came up, looked
disapprovingly at Cordelia, and carried off her
lady to a neighbouring hotel. Cordelia looked
after the retreating Bath-chair with a feeling
of hope mixed with sad longing. * There is
some one who might help me out of the tangle
I am in  if any one can set me right again,
which I much doubt  oh dear ! '

Cordelia nourished for some time a weak-vol.

II. H

minded hope that as she had offended George
Kingdon he would be off her mind altogether,
and that, as she only exchanged a few words
with him at intervals, there was a good settlement
of him into polite coolness, and she need
not think of him any more. This was a relief,
for the recollection of him was full of pin-pricks
to her conscience, and she could not
remember any of her relations to him without
shame for her shortcomings and the false
positions she had been in. She frequently
heard him spoken of as going rapidly to the
bad, chiefly by his love of play ; and his health
was said to be very bad, all the worse for the
life he led. She did not hear, as she might
have done had she not been Miss Ashby, that
great blame was cast on Colonel Ashby, for
encouraging Mr. Kingdon and other young
men to gambling, by which he often profited
largely, while he could always keep his own
too experienced head cool enough not to lose
seriously. Indeed, Colonel Ashby reversed a

saying often applied to his young associates
he was every one's enemy but his own.

One day Mrs. Lichfield was listening to
the Mentone band in a very bad humour in
finding that this unexciting amusement was
the only one available for her that afternoon,
and Cordelia, who was with her, was opposing
less than her usual passive endurance to this
ill temper.

'Why did you come. Sophy, if you do not
like it? It would be pleasant to walk to
Castella ; the purple anemones are out, and
there is neither wind nor dust on the ridges.'

4 How childish you are! What do you
suppose I care for purple anemones ? What
a set of musty foreigners there are here ; it is
very bad form to be walking. It must be
pleasant in Germany now that all those
amazing people are out of it. Who are you
bowing to in that excited way ? '

Miss Carslake.'

'Who is she? Xo one nice, or you would

not have picked her up. It is just like you to
rush into the arms of all the frumpy English
who persist in coming here to run in and out
of that church like so many rabbits.'

1 Between the frumpy English and the
musty foreigners there is not much choice forme.
I clo see some nice English here, but
they do not seem to care about knowing us.'

Speak for yourself. If you are not
pleasant to them than to us, it is no
wonder.'

Cordelia sighed over the weary jangle, and
was silent again.

Here are some civilised beings at last ! '
said Mrs. Lichfield, presently, in altered
tones, as the Austrian Major von Lensky and
George Kingston strolled up to them. They
all walked together for a short time, and then
Yon Lensky, who had as much fear of as
admiration for the English Miss, left her
behind with George and established himself
as Mrs. Lichfield's companion  he could at

least understand her. Presently they turned
into Eumpelmayer's for coffee, without so
much as a glance at the pair behind them.

Shall we go in, too ? ' asked George,
doubtfully.

1 No. I hate Eumpelmayer's in the afternoon,
and so do you ; one cannot be comfortably
greedy in a glass case when people are
staring through the panes. I do not know
though  Sophy is alone.'

She can send Yon Lensky if she wants
you. Let us take another turn by the sea ;
you have heard this composition more than
once before. You ought to be very kind and
considerate to me, for I am frightfully out of
sorts, and very much down on my luck.'

'Oh, I am sorry ! ' said Cordelia, quickly
and heartily.

1 I am glad you are sorry  it shows we are
friends still ; besides, I know no one else who
cares a rap.'

8 Your people ? '

fc I exhausted my people long ago, and
am altogether in a greater mess with them
than I can explain to you. And they do not
know. As to the lot I am in with here, they
are neither sorry nor surprised ; one does not
exactly look for sympathy in that crowd  a
little from you will be soothing, though I feel
a brute to ask it of you.'

4 George, why do you do it ? Cannot you
come out of that crowd? Do, do ; it is a bad
one, and you are not really of their sort.'

Yes, I am, worse luck. It is you that
are not ; you always said you would come out
from among them, and you have. I used to
be awfully sorry for you last year, and thought
you were altogether too good for the set you
were in ; but now, though you have your
troubles, I am not such a fool as to pity you ;
you have escaped in spirit, and no doubt you
soon will in body, too, and never give a look
behind. Tell me, do you keep it up, all that
you told me of the day I was such a brute to

you ? I am not making a mock, honour
bright ! Does it answer ? Can you hold
to it ? '

Cordelia turned her hot, miserable face to
the cool violet sea. She had made a wretched
business of this ; but her answer should be an
honest one.

No, I have not held to it. When I
wrote to you I thought it was all right with
me, and always would be. I tried hard, and
I learnt a great deal ; I still think the same,
there is nothing like the Christian life  it is
beautiful, it is wonderful  if I could but tell
you the smallest part ! But, George, I must
tell you the very truth  I have not held to it,
I have let it all go.'

Poor old Corks ! Does this make you
look so down in the mouth ? How did it
happen ; was the curb too tight ? Perhaps
that parson did not turn up trumps after all ?

Cordelia's face was already so pink that no
more colour could 'be added. ' No, no. He

is good. I cannot tell you how it is, but I
have got into a horrible tangle, and am
not a bit better than I was before ; and so
miserable ! '

Poor little woman ! Have they been
rough on you, and pretending you are a bad
lot, instead of seeing, as any but idiots would,
that you are the best little girl out, bar
none ? '

No, not that. I really meant to be good.'

I know you did ; I am not so very
observing, but I see the difference in you. It
is not only that you are grown up, and do not
kick up shines as you used to do ; but you
mind what you say, and do not cheek the
Colonel, nor spite your sister, nor take rises
out of people. Perhaps you have not made
such a mull of this business as you think you
have ; perhaps it is only a check, and you
will find the scent again.'

A desponding shake of the head was her
answer.

1 1 cannot stand your being miserable and
looking so sad. Is any one worrying you
here F "

 No, unless it is you.'

 Why ? Is the Colonel rusty about me ? '
They had wandered along the promenade,

beyond the sound of the band and away from
the people, as far as the entrance to one of the
valleys ; the day was an especially lovely one,
with a softness that was not quite a haze
veiling the distance sufficiently to remove
the too great clearness that often spoils the
Riviera scenery. There is nothing more keenly
sweet than the sudden revealing of the soul of
a friend ; but if we were always clear to each
other's view we should quickly lose all interest
in the explaining of ourselves to one another.
delia lifted up her eyes to the hills, and
saw the softness of the purple shadows on
them, the dusk of blue that the pine-trees
made below the rocky heights, and the
olives, the trees of peace, that wrapped the

nearer slopes in a mantle of greyish green.
What shall I say ? ' was her question. She
was unconscious of any answer from the
hills or from beyond them ; yet, as she spoke,
with stammering tongue, the spirit of her
speech was hardly the same as it would have
been if she had looked for inspiration to the
front of a white-and-green hotel.

George, I was dreadfully stuck-up and
cheeky to speak to you as I did at Maybury,
and to fancy that I could really say anything
to you. I have been so ashamed of it ; I had
begun to believe I was really good, and could
teach people, or at least you. Now I know
that it was all true, as I said, but that I am
not good at all, and that teaching is a very
different thing. All the same, I do wish you
would not go to the dogs.'

1 Do you, dear ? That would be a strong
reason for stopping on the way  only I am
gone.'

8 Come back, then.'

Can't ; am eaten up, bones and all. You
were always a brick, Cordie, and some day
you will be a saint, all the quicker because
you do not like to leave an old chum behind
in the mire. Xever mind me ; you are not
strong enough to drag me up, so do not overweight
yourself. You can say a prayer forme,
you know, with the sinners and wicked
men.'

You may be a sinner, but I cannot think
of you as a wicked man

I do not insist upon it, so you will think
of me at all.'

CHAPTEE XXII.

A HELPING HAND.

I did not err, there does a sable cloud
Turn forth her silver lining on the night.

Milton.

As George Kingdon had asked Cordelia to
say a prayer for him it must be said, and
she went to church one morning with the
express intention. She was not yet like the
well-bred daughter, 4 expert and ready at her
prayers,' and lately she had not time to give
her mind as formerly to the services, but this
request, that was apart from herself and her
own needs, was not so hard to fulfil. Surely
she could pray for poor George ; and then, if
she could pray for a stranger, she could not
leave ' her dearest and her best ' out of her
appeal  little Fero, her Maybury friends, and

he who might most safely be remembered
here. It was hard to frame the right petition,
with every thought of self left out, with every
vain dream and idle regret set aside ; and
these new beginnings in shame and sorrow '
seemed miserably weak and faltering ; but she
felt strongly the obligation that was on her,
and as she left the church she trusted that in
this feeble voice of intercessory prayer she
had drawn a little nearer to returning and
rest.

On a bench close by, under the spicy
shade of the eucalyptus trees, sat Miss
Carslake, watching for Cordelia, with whom
her acquaintance had lately grown apace,
favoured by the girl's shy eagerness and her
own quick sympathies, which showed her that
here she was needed.

After a little half indifferent talk, she said,
You know we have to get all the friendship
we can pack into the few weeks we may have ;
we will not wait to make cautious explorations

of each other's minds, but, as I am sure we
love each other, we will go on to confidences
at once. I have been in a bad temper this
morning  not wholesomely cross, as people
may be allowed to feel when the wind does
not suit them, but in a horrid, nagging,
invalid's temper. I have snubbed Jane and
reproached my good doctor, and I would
have quarrelled with our concierge, but that
I am meanly afraid he will keep back my
letters.'

1 Some people agree not to mind each
other's tantrums in the mistral ; but my sister
and I nag at each other with the wind all
round the compass,' said Cordelia, candidly.

I have heard our weather here complained
of for want of variety, but you do not take
the benefit of little changes. As I am the
elder, I am going to ask the first home
question : Why do you always come out of
church with red eyes ? '

The eyes threatened to become redder

again on the spot. A little more and Cordelia's
friend drew from her all the story that
she had such pressing need to tell. It was
told all the more readily that this was a new
friend, and would take her as she explained
herself, without any inconvenient theories
built on previous knowledge of her or her
circumstances, and without any possibility of
such a sentiment as ' I told you so.' She
ended with ' There ! it is nearly as bad as
possible ; only one thing could make it worse
if I had known what I was doing. But I
did not, indeed I did not ; I thought I was
quite sincere, and I only half understood the
warnings I got from my cousins ; I thought
that it was goodness that I loved and saw to
be the most beautiful thing in the world : I

thought I loved the Master '

4 Poor child ! I think you did ; I am sure
you do, though you have made a grievous
mistake. One thing I must ask. Did this
gentleman ever, in any way, cause you to

believe that he might or did care for you in
the way that you cared for him ? '

6 Oh no, no, no ! How could he ? It
would have been wrong, wicked, when he
was teaching me in that way. If I could
make you understand what he is  how far,
and above, and away from anything of that
kind. For him to do such a thing would be
past thinking of  never, never ! '

I believe you, my dear, all the more that
I guess something. What is this good man's
name ? '

I am so sorry not to answer you, but I
really think I ought not to say.'

No, and I ought not to ask you ; but I
cannot resist one guess  is it Philip Odiarne ? '

What a fine flame spread over Cordelia's
face as, for the first time in three long
months, she heard those most dear words ;
and what joy they gave her, in spite of her
distress !

How do you know ? I have not said it ;

I would never have told you if I thought you
knew him.'

You named Maybury once, and the name
struck me. Besides, he is just the man to
inspire romantic devotion in foolish young
people, and never to guess it. It is many
years since I saw Philip Odiarne ; he was a
great friend of my cousin, Sister Olive  have
you ever heard of her ? '

I Yes, once,' said Cordelia, in a very Hat
voice.

I I could laugh at you, if it were not that
these dear people are of the very nearest tome
; they are the very salt of my life ; it is
something more than a pleasure to speak of
them, and a very rare indulgence  for, except
your friend, I am the last living of a little
number who were once very closely knit together.
Olive Lylford and I were the greatest
friends ; indeed, I never had another friend such
as she ; we had the same views, tastes, and
aspirations, though they came to very different

VOL. II. I

ends. She was a strong, calm, self-centred
woman, on whom every one who came near
her quickly learnt to depend ; she had a very
warm heart and was thoroughly unselfish ;
her mistakes arose from her under-estimation
of her own influence, and of the strength of
the affection she inspired. When she left me
to go to her sisterhood, and again to go into
her rest, I felt that my staff was taken from
me, and learnt that I had leant on her too
much. I hope I took my lesson aright ; but
my health, never good, failed after that, and
I became this feeble, poor creature, with only
waiting for my appointed service. Well, it is
very nearly over now. I should like to see
Philip Odiarne once before I go ; perhaps you
know that he, even more than I, was desolate
when Olive left us ? '

Yes ; my cousin Lettice Wastell told me
the facts before I left May bury,' Cordelia
answered, with shy, warm interest.

4 The Wastels are his cousins, very good

people I have often heard. Poor Philip ! It
was hard for him. You, child, with your
pretty little bit of an enthusiasm for him, cannot
do more than guess at the extent of his
trial ; it was very, very hard for him. My
cousin's purpose of entering a sisterhood was
never spoken of, for family reasons ; yet I
thought he knew of it and had even spoken to
her of it ; it was a blunder that I regret for
life. She was quite unaware of the nature of
his feeling for her, and I only suspected it so
vaguely that it hardly disturbed me. When
Lord Belford died, after inflicting o-reat suffering
on his daughter, she was known to be free
to dispose of her life as she chose. The first
time I met Philip I saw his face changed, all
alight with his new hope. My dear, many sad
and difficult things have been given to me todo
in my life, but nothing was ever so hard
to me in the doing as that.'

6 Will you tell me about it?' ventured
Cordelia, her heart beating fast and full.

I 2

He had come to my mother's house in
town to hear of her, as it was still too soon
for him to call at the Lylfords'. I had been
with Olive that morning, and in speaking of
her probation at S. Helen's, which was to begin
very shortly, I said that Philip Odiarne must
be told. She agreed, and said she would tell
him at their first meeting, remarking that none
of her friends would be more sympathetic nor
wish her God-speed more heartily than he.
But my mind misgave me, and when I saw the
light and joy come into his face in speaking of
her, I was quite sure of what his hope must
be, and knew that to spare them both I must
speak at once. Fortunately we were alone ; I
went to the writing-table so as to speak with
my face turned from him. He did not say one
word, nor move ; I was frightened, and I could
not go on talking. Just then I heard the bell
of a church in the next street, and I said, " I
am going to Evensong ; will you come with
me ? " He stood up at once, and we went

without a word. You may think how I prayed
for him. Coming out early, I glanced over to
the men's side, and left him kneeling there,
offering, I know, his treasure " of countless
price." He was a little time out of town, but
when he returned he saw Olive often before
she went to S. Helen's. She told me that he
helped her greatly in many difficulties that
were still before her.'

Did she know ? ' said Cordelia, fairly in
tears.

Not until later. Then he was going to
a Black Country parish, to new and very
arduous work, and he asked me to tell her ; I
think he longed for her fully to understand
hum. It disturbed her, and gave her pain fora
time in a way he did not think of, for she
reproached herself so much. I have seen him
but seldom since then ; Olive told me that he
had developed a very noble character. I
know that he has had many trials and
struggles, and I believe that he has always

been the victor ; there was a certain severity
about him always, and I never saw that light
of hope and joy on his face again.'

It is there now, perhaps, when he thinks
of her. In church he makes me think of S.
Stephen ; a French lady who came to Maybury
said of him, " C'est une veritable tete de S.
Jean." '

c Now to return to yourself, a person you
have for the moment forgotten ; why do you
think I tell you all this so gladly ? '

4 To make me ashamed, as it does. To
show me how presumptuous I have been 
how wicked, a publishing girl like me ! '

Foolish, if you like, and silly, hasty,
quixotic, ignorant  there are plenty of hard
words for you; but wicked, no! You trust
me to tell you the truth, do you not ? '

Please say what you think, it cannot be
too bad for the truth of me.'

4 You must also believe that it is not too
good for the truth of you. Here it is. I think

very highly of you for having been capable
of this piece of folly. Philip Odiarne is no
ladies' parson, spending his strength on sentimental
grievances, pretty talk, and pious straw-splitting.
We see him through our woman's
eyes ; but he is a man's man, he does a true
man's service in the great fight of faith. I
can understand that he is more attractive now
tli an when he was younger  time and work,
sorrow and victory, ripen and soften a great
character ; still, it is not every girl, very few
girls brought up as you have been, who have
the sense and insight  above all, the sympathy
with goodness  required to fall in love with
such a man. Of course it is absurd, and you
must fall, or rather climb, out again, however
hard the struggle ; but you can hardly fail to
be the better for such an experience. For
one thing, after this, you can never care fora
mean or a bad man.'

For no one. But this is not all ; I do not
suppose it is really wicked of a girl to care fora

good man ; but I did not do it in an honest
way. He was teaching me ; I longed so to be
good, and I knew he could show me the way ;
I tried hard ; I learnt so much.'

4 And you can never unlearn it. That
knowledge is for all your days  a light of life,
or a consuming fire, as you use it.'

It is not only the knowledge. He taught
me that knowledge is nothing without a holy
life and true devotion. I thought I was
beginning, and should one day rise to great
heights of excellence and devotion ; I seemed
to see the way, and I most really and truly
meant it, and felt it too. Must I lose it all
for this miserable folly ? I have let it all
go!'

Certainly you must not lose your Christian
progress, but go on the better for this check.
What made you let it go, as you call it ? '

It was after I came here. I was miserable
at coming away, and knew then that I was
thinking too much of  him ; the feeling of

XLaybury and the thought of them all kept
me warm and going on for a time, but Maybury
grew further and further away with every
letter that came from there ; things here were
dreadful, and at last there was nothing left
but the ache. Then he wrote me a little note ;
Lettice Wastell asked him to do so ; it was very
kind and friendly, he gave me some advice,
and hoped I would persevere, and  that was
all. Of course it was all ; but it showed me
all the difference between what he thought of
me  always kind and careful and the right
thing, when he did think  and my thoughts
of him, which had grown to fill up the whole
of me. I just collapsed, and found I had been
nothing but a hypocrite and a deceiver, thinking
I was being religious, when  Oh, I have
hated myself ! '

Poor child ! you do not seem at all hateful
to me. Come, let us see what can be
gathered up from this wreck. I am going to
speak quite plainly to you, dear.'

Then Miss Carslake, with a few questions,
and an insight that seemed marvellous to
Cordelia's inexperience, went to the root of
the matter with her, showing her departures
from the right line, her blunders and her
wilfulness. ' She speaks like Mr. Odiarne
himself ! ' thought Cordelia, to whom it was
quite new that such spiritual power could lie
in a woman, or, indeed, that any one should be
able to move her except her chosen teacher ;
but no man, certainly not Mr. Odiarne, could
have understood her weakness and her strength
as Miss Carslake did, and few women would
have been so wise, if many might have been as
kind. ' Shall I tell you,' she ended, ' where
part of your mistake has been ? You wanted
to be distinguished, to run before you could
stand, to be a saint all at once  nay, to be a
saint before you fully understood that you
were a sinner, to rise to lofty heights of holiness
before you knew what it is to walk
humbly with God. And you have, therefore,

been too much discouraged at this your first
failure.'

1 It is so good to hear all this from you ; it
seems fresh and new, and I am not afraid to
look at it. When all came through Mr.
Odiarne it was in a mist : there has been
nothing I dared to think of.'

I have told you about him and my
cousin, that you may think of him and do ashe
did. You must never forget him, nor his
teaching ; try to follow that, and it must lead
you right ; and for himself, think of him, as he
did of Sister Olive at S. Helen's, with reverent
love and true sympathy, with prayers for him,
and thanksgivings too. Thank God for this
His servant, think of his single mind and his
devoted life, and you must be better and even
happier for having known  yes, and for having
loved  so good a man.'

Cordelia's face lighted up softly at last.
4 Ah, if I may think of him so, perhaps I may

come right again ! I thought it was wrong
have him in my mind at all, and I could
not shut him out '

It is only silly fancies and vain regrets
that are wrong ; you will not indulge in them.
Now you are to come to see me, and to meet
me here, and we will cultivate our friendship
diligently ; but we will not talk any more of
Philip Odiarne. He was the close friend and
dear pupil of the good man I should have
married if the beginnings of this illness many
years ago had not parted us ; so you will
understand that for many reasons I have
thoughts about him that will not bear much
speaking.'

Yes, and I understand too how wonderfully
good to me you have been in saying so
much,' answered Cordelia, reverently.

Jane came up, and her face was terrible
to behold when she saw how exhausted her
mistress was, and noted the signs of over-excitement

and weariness that Cordelia was
too absorbed and too inexperienced to mark.
or to guess the suffering that must follow.

1 Xever mind, Jane,' whispered Miss Cars-lake
; ' I have had pleasures this morning for
which a little pain will be small payment.'

CHAPTER XXIII.

A Fellow-traveller.

We cannot see or understand the mystery of our natural
animal life, and dare we presume to fancy that we can see or
understand the spiritual, supernatural life by which God's grace
dwells in our souls !  De Contre.

Captain Lichfield was expected from India in
March of that year. The plan was that he
should meet his wife and the Ashbys at
Milan, and go with there to the Italian lakes
and the Tirol on their way to England. He
intended to take a short tour in the Holy
Land with a brother officer, and the time of
his arrival in North Italy was uncertain.
Still it was at least three weeks before lie Alas
looked for in Europe, when Cordelia, returning
with a party of young people from a donkey
ride to Gorbio, discerned her brother-in-law
standing on the steps leading to the Hotel

des Citrons. c "What a complication for
Sophy ! What will she do with Yon
Lensky ? ' slipped through her mind before
Captain Lichfield singled her out from the
noisy party of girls and young men who drew
up their humble steeds before the door. ' Help
me down ! '  * Such a perfect day ! '  ; Lend
me two francs.'  4 So tired ! '  ' Where are my
flowers?'  'Not in the least tired ! ' 4 The
views were too lovely, and the sea quite a
peacock-blue ! ' and so on, rose in chorus.

Oh, Duncan, I am glad to see you !
Where have you come from?' said Cordelia,
heartily, as the small, neat, sandy-haired
young man put aside Mathilde the donkey-woman
and helped her to alight.

The usual feminine comment on a first
sight of Duncan Lichfield was ' What a nice-looking
man ; he looks so thoroughly a gentleman
! ' The next sentiments were wonder and
curiosity as to the reason of the almost comic
solemnity that overspread a sunburnt countenance

intended by nature to express great
enjoyment of life and a genial good humour.
He was pleased with Cordelia's welcome  the
warmest he had yet received ; but after shaking
hands with her he turned off his smile as
if it had been a needless jet of gas, and asked,
with intense meaning, ' Is it well with you ? '

Not particularly, at this moment, I am so
very hungry, and I fell down and bruised my
knee in a clamber after some ferns. A cold
bandage and dinner will set all right. Have
you seen Fero ? '

6 1 did not mean the meat that perished ;
I trust it will be indeed well with the child.'

Oh, Duncan, he is the veriest little love !
If he is shy it will not be for long. What
a pity for you to have missed one and a half
of his pretty baby years ! You are very like
him, now that I look at you. I am so glad
you have come ! '

Cordelia had a most friendly regard for
her brother-in-law, though she had not seen

much of him, and she looked to his return
to establish a more wholesome way of life for
Sophy and Fero, and perhaps for herself. He
belonged to a family that had been a proverb
for narrow and strict Calvinistic opinions for
two generations past ; but, in the present one,
two of Duncan's sisters had, by some reactionary
process, become not only Romanists
but nuns, and he himself was thought almost
as great a backslider from the family traditions
when he married such a stranger to
them in thoughts, words, and ways as Colonel
Ashby's daughter. For her part Sophy
thought she was marrying a man of unheard-of
strictness of life and opinion, and, having no
experience of such men, was not afraid, but.
fancied that her influence over him and his
infatuation for her would prevent any inconvenience
arising to herself from ' Duncan's
odd notions.'

The notions, however, did prove very inconvenient,
even modified as they were by

VOL. IT. K

Duncan's devotion to his wife, and a good deal
of friction arose between the young couple.
Still, he was hopeful and indulgent, while she
was interested and cautious, and they contrived
to struggle on without serious quarrels
until Captain Lichfield was ordered to India.
There the young woman so comported herself
that her husband made her health and her
baby excuses for taking her back to England,
after two years' sojourn, and left her in her
father's care. Unfortunately, this was not to
be called taking her c home,' and even the plan
for her living at the sea side with Cordelia
and a governess was defeated. During the
separation, Sophy went entirely her own or
her father's way ; while Duncan, always taking
to himself the blame of their misunderstandings,
spent the time in plans and hopes for a
more harmonious future, besides undergoing
certain spiritual processes and experiences
which he trusted would make him better able
to deal with his wife, and which he confidently

looked forward to her sharing. Surely
this conversion, the warmth and glory of
which filled all his heart, needed only to be
laid before the dear and beautiful, if wayward,
woman, and she who had loved and listened to
him in the old time when he was in dark).
must doubly, trebly, listen to him now, when
lie felt trebly worthy of love, and inspired
with all the glow of his message to her. He
could hardly restrain himself on that first
evening ; he looked eagerly at her fair, sulky
face, gave dark hints, and longed to begin,
even as they sat at dinner, with the clatter of
the table d'hote and the strife of tongues going
on around them ; while broad stares were
given to the stranger, and nods of congratulation
Averse bestowed on Sophy by those
benevolent ones who thought they understood
the situation.

After dinner Mrs. Lichfield took a turn on
the terrace with her husband in the bright
light of the moon, the same moon undei-
x 2

which she walked with Yon Lensky the night
before, and with George Kingdon at other
times, when it was full and the air was soft ;
but the moon is proverbially discreet, and
hotel guests are practically so ; and they paced
up and down in earnest conversation, as became
a couple reunited after along separation.
Cordelia looked down on them once or twice
from the windows of their sitting-room, and
thought Duncan seemed to be speaking very
emphatically to his wife, not to say lecturing
her. She felt anxious for a moment, and then,
as maidens will, she pictured herself walking
up and clown a moonlit terrace, in and out of
the shadow of the orange-trees, with some one
who should be the first, the best, the one companion
for such a walk. Mr. Odiarne came
into her mind, and was promptly turned out
again, the more easily, that he was not in harmony
with the picture ; he was pleasant
enough to walk with in English daylight, discoursing
thoughtfully with his eyes fixed on

the far distance ; but he did not suit Italian
moonlight, when only things close at hand
were to be well seen. He was too tall and
upright, walked too fast, and was too apt to
forget exactly who it was that he talked to.
Mayne "Wastell would suit much better. She
had walked with him in the dusky gold of a
September moon at the Warren, and this white
radiance would not become him less ; and
then Mayne listened as well as talked, and
never forgot to whom he was speaking, at
least when it was Cordelia.

Presently Sophy came in, and sat down by
Cordelia, breathing quickly, and drawing a
newspaper to her, wrong side up, as if she
wished to recover herself.

1 Stay here, Cordie ! where are you
going ? '

Only to see Fero in bed ; it is his
time.'

Fero can wait ; stay here and talk to
Duncan ; you ought to know how, you are used

to the truly pious. I think he must be going
out of his mind ! '

4 Sophy ! No ; what a thing to say ! He is
wild with delight at seeing you ; that is all.'

4 He was always rather tiresome and religious,
just as you thought you would be
when you first came from those people ; but
now  del I He says he was in darkness before,
but now he sees  and he is saved, safe ; and he
wants me to be saved too, now, to-night. That
is not at all in my way, you know ; and really
I hardly understand. He speaks so oddly,
putting everything in Bible words, the very
worst he can find, and I do not know in the
least what he wants me to say. I am so afraid
he will begin on Papa ! '

Papa is in the smoking-room still ; where
is Duncan ? '

In the hall, talking to Max about his soul,
and Max does not understand. " Est-ce que
Monsieur veut commander quelque chose ? "
Hark ! here comes Yon Lensky, with Desire

Aubert, and Sir Charles will be here directly.
What shall we do ? It is impossible to have
any roulette to-night. Duncan really ought
to have given me notice ; how could I be free
from engagements ? '

They will go off with Papa. You must
tell them you are engaged, and I will take
Duncan upstairs to see Fero in bed.'

1 Oh, yes ! You are of the right sort after
all, Cordie. \Yhat a mercy it is that Duncan
does not speak German ! ' said Sophy, truly
grateful to Cordelia for what seemed to the
latter a guilty complicity in the befalling of
Duncan, rather than a judicious keeping of the
family peace.

Up, up, up the marble stairs, till even
Ji axles strong young breath comes quickly,
and Captain Lichfield, used to the flatness of
an Indian bungalow, stops to pant and inquire
if they sleep on the roof. Little Fero
is lodged * au quatrieme ' this winter, and
Cordelia's room is close by ; she greatly values

the liberty of her sky-parlour, to which neither
her father nor Sophy ever ascend. They
found Fero alone, undressed, playing on his
bed in the moonlight, Therese having gone to
the basement for the prolonged festivity of
the servants' supper.

6 Oh, Fero, my treasure, you ought to be
asleep ! '

Me not said mine prayers ; Cordie did not
come ; where is mine orange ? '

Father has come to say good-night to his
boy ; kiss and love him, Fero.' Cordelia
hoped that, this ceremony over, Captain Lichfield
would go downstairs, leaving her and
Fero to their nightly observance  but no !
The child was politely indifferent to his father
and only anxious that Cordie should kneel
down with him as usual. Duncan knelt too,
and when the little boy had ended made
a long extempore prayer for the child full of
Bible metaphor, and then went on to pray for
the mother, grandfather, and aunt in language

more explicit of his poor opinion of all three
than Cordelia thought good for the boy to
hear ; but the little tired head drooped against
her side, and she presently lifted him into bed,
only awake enough to ask, ' Cordie, is mine
father good ? '

1 Yes, dear, I am sure he is very good.'

8 Then I will love him, next best after
Cordie.'

Captain Lichfield stood looking at the
delicate fair head on the pillow, heaving sighs
so deep and powerful that it was evident he
meant Cordelia to notice them. \Vhen the
boy was fairly asleep, she opened the door
into the next room, saying, * This is my room ;
I like to be near Fero, and he comes to me
early in the morning. Is he not a darling ? '

Instead of join through her room into
the corridor as she intended, her brother
carefully shut the outer door, and, returning
to where she stood by her little table,
said, with deepest solemnity, ' He is a sweet

child ; how much sweeter if he were indeed a
brand plucked from the burning, if he were
in truth one of the lambs of the fold ! '

c But he is ! Dear little Fero ! You
wrote to me at Brussels that he was baptized
at Eawul Pindee. I thought it so kind of you
to remember me, and I told the nicest of the
girls and Soeur Lucie.'

c A form, to which I was perhaps wrong
in consenting. The question is, the one
question, is he saved, is he conscious of salvation
? '

He is so young, but he is a very good
child.'

Even babes have often full assurance
given them. I will examine him tomorrow.
And you, my sister ! '  here he grasped
Cordelia's arm with a look of solemn appeal
* are you saved ? '

Cordelia hesitated, puzzled by his novel
phrases, ' I  our Lord died to save us all,'
she said, reverently.

c But you, you individual poor sinner, can
you grasp it for yourself? '

I try  I hope so '

1 Have you full assurance  full, certain,
sure  of your salvation ? Ah ! I see you have
not ; and yet  this Book  your words to the
child  let me hope that you are a groper for
the truth  tell me that you are at least a
groper.'

She did not know how to respond, yet
his earnestness and kindness made her long todo
so m some way. lie looked disappointed
that she had nothing to say, and opening her
Bible read the first verses that lie lighted
upon, regardless of its being impossible to
twist them into the smallest show of application.
Then he knelt down and began to pray
very earnestly for her conversion and final
salvation. He did not appear to regard her
presence much, but after a minute's pause she
knelt at the other side of the table and tried
her best to listen reverently. Though puzzled,

she was touched; the words and turns of
thought were strange to her, but the earnest
spirit was the same that had so often and so
strongly drawn her to others in whom she had
discerned it. .Mr. Odiarne's pupil did not
wish for Duncan Lichfield as a teacher, but
she felt that she had a real brother in her
sister's husband, which was a warm and comforting
thought. Close by it in her mind
was a rather contradictory sympathy. ' Poor
Sophy ! It really is very awkward for her.
I hope those men have gone away.'

How much I have wanted to see you ! '
exclaimed Cordelia, the next time she won
her much-prized way into Miss Carslake's
room. ' And now I am not glad, for you look
so ill ! What have you been doing ? '

Fighting the mistral and losing the battle.
The enemy has retired to-day, and I told Jane
to look for you.'

She did not like her business, she suspects
me of trampling on you when we are

alone. Miss Carslake, my brother-in-law has
arrived  rather like a popgun shot into our
midst  he is harmless, but startles us, and
makes us jump.'

But do not you like him ? '

Yes ; but the mischief is I am the only
person that does ; and I am not enthusiastic
for, though he is good, he is, always saying the
wrong good thing to the wrong people at the
the wrong moment. He is altered ; he was
always a prim, steady-going little fellow, with
the kindest heart in the world ; but now he
has got himself converted, as he calls it, and
the consequence is he is in the most rampant
state of fuss over other people's souls. Of
course it is nice of him to care, only he is so
sure that no one's soul will go right unless he
sees about it himself. Do you think he ought
to go full tilt at the chambermaids, and Von
Lensky, and the young men at the chemist's,
and people who have only come to the hotel
that day, about their souls P '

Decidedly I think he ought not, but he
thinks otherwise and acts up to his principles.
I wonder if he dislikes doing it as
much as I should. How does your sister
take it ? '

Poor Sophy ! Though a great deal is
her own fault, it really is rather rough upon
her. She does not know which way to turn ;
when she walks with Duncan she keeps the
lace of her parasol between her and half the
people she knows. They are sitting at Kum-player's
now, with a glass of water between
them, looking like two "possesses"  Sophy,
who has been taking coffee there with one
young man or other every band-day for these
two winters past ! '

Miss Carslake tried hard not to laugh,
c And have you been with her ? '

6 Not lately. I never liked it much. I
cannot see that it is part of my duty to lend
a countenance to Sophy. I try to keep clear
of her set ; I hate their talk about Monte

Carlo, or other gambling, or else scandalous
tales that I am supposed not to understand.
If there are many foreigners, they talk little
complimentary nonsense that are too silly.
It is very odd that only the English know
how to chaff; there is some honesty and fun
in that. Sometime when they are all jolly,
I am tired of being grim, and go in for it
too, and talk nonsense, and make them all
laugh ; it makes Sophy cross, and I hate
myself after it. I wish you would say you
think it downright wicked, as Duncan do

I am not sure that I do, for you must
be there when it is a matter of obedience,
and I am sure you keep some guard on the
quality of your talk. How does it compare
with the smaller change of Maybury conversation
? '

 We often had great fun at the Warren
and with the Somers, but every one took
part, and one felt directly if one had said the
wrong thing, and slid off politely ; here I

make a fool of myself for their amusement,
and no one is the better for that.'

4 1 fear you may be the worse, at least
if you are not very careful ; but it cannot
be helped at present. To-day at least you
may be with me, which seems to please you
as much as it does me.'

It is meat and drink, lodging and doing-for
to me ; but how can it please you, Miss
Carslake ? '

8 Ah ! I shall not tell you ; you might not
think my reasons complimentary, though they
are altogether friendly. Do you know my
yesterday's business was no less than writing
to Mr. Odiarne, and you crept into my letter ? '
Cordelia jumped from her seat, all in a
crimson glow. ' You need not be frightened ;
do you think I would betray confidences ? I
told him that I was pleased to foregather
with his pupil ; but I wrote to tie up some
old threads, and to make a request that I will
tell you of when the answer comes. Now

read to me a little ; there is an article on Mary,
Queen of Scots, that will just suit us.'

Under colour of its being a relief to herself,
Miss Carslake often made Cordelia read
to her ; her comments made each reading a
rich lesson in general cultivation, and Cordelia
profited largely, beginning to take hold
of knowledge for its own sake, and to feel the
pleasure of using her very serviceable intellect
as she had not yet done.

I hope you are not going to leave Mentone
because Captain Lichfield has come ? '
asked Miss Carslake, as they parted.

No. I was afraid we should go, and
was perfectly green at the thought of leaving
you ; but Duncan says he sees " openings "
here. There is a prayer-meeting at one of
the hotels every week, which he routed out
in two days. Then he thinks he is making
an impression on our landlord ; but the truth
is, that M. des Citrons does not understand
English half so well as he thinks he does, and

VOL. II. L

fancies M. le Capitaine is complaining of the
wine, as the other men do. Duncan, too 
the most aggressive of teetotalers ! I think
we shall stay till after Easter, for it will take
some time to follow up these good works and
to see some relations of his at Cannes, who
are very precious spirits, but cannot receive
him till after next week.'

4 1 am afraid you laugh too much at your
brother-in-law.'

When I use his words, or think of him,
I am in fits of laughter ; but when he appeals
to me or talks to Fero, I turn quite soft, and
wish I could satisfy him by declaring I amin
the state of mind he wishes to work me
up to.'

That is the worst of it. People of his
school are most truly good, and keep watch
and ward over themselves, but they neglect
half of the truth and do not enter into the
more glorious part of their inheritance ; and
then they require of others a state of feeling

a kind of continual exaltation  that very
few can keep up, and that many, striving
after, instead of using the means of grace
quietly and humbly, and resting content with
the measure of hope and joy God gives them,
would fail miserably. Yet you must reverence
him in so far that you feel him to
be a true follower of our dear Lord, and
respond to his inclination to be a kind and
sympathising brother to you. Never throw
away a grain of proffered affection and goodwill.
I do not wish you to put any force
on your feelings, nor to adopt his phraseology.'


4 Very well. I do not think it will be
hard to do as you advise ; but I wish he
would not call me a groper. You would not
like to be called a groper, Miss Carslake?'

Perhaps not ; yet it might be a very good
name for me. Go away, my dear, and leave
me to meditate upon it.'

L 'J

CHAPTEE XXIV.

A GATE INTO A BYWAY.

Peace, peace ! such a small lamp illume, on this highway,
So dimly so few steps in front of my feet, 

Yet shows me that her way is parted from my way . . .
Out of sight, beyond light, at what goal may we meet?

D. G. Rossetti

The position that Mrs. Licli field held with
regard to her Eiviera circle of friends after her
husband's arrival was made easier to her by
his absorption in his own views of life and his
efforts to carry them out. He was so anxious
to impress himself on his wife's associates that
their true character dawned on him very
slowly. Mrs. Lichfield was discreet, so was
the Colonel ; while Cordelia tried to keep all
smooth and to insert herself in awkward
corners, becoming thereby an important person
in her sister's eyes. The different forms
of gambling that had formed so large a part

of former conversations were now rarely
alluded to. Monte Carlo and its attraction-could
not be always ignored : but Mrs. Lichfield
allowed her husband to suppose that she
never entered the gaming-rooms. telling fibs
over it that nearly cost her Cordelia's very
partial adherence.

When Duncan's relations at Cannes were
ready to receive him he went to pay them
a few days' visit; his wife was invited also,
but she excused herself  her boy required her
presence, and her young sister could not be
left in a large hotel unchaperoned. By way
of fulfilling these interesting duties, Mrs.
Lichfield had a roulette-party on the evening
Duncan left them. Cordelia, after testifying,
flatly declined to enter her sister's sitting
room that evening. It was rather cold, and
after seeing Fero to bed she returned to the
public salon for warmth and company. Most
of the people assembled were gathered into
little groups for conversation or for games ;

but a young Englishman, who greatly appreciated
Cordelia and the small snatches of her
society that he could obtain, put down his
book and came to talk to her. Very soon
George Kingdon came in, evidently looking
for her, and Mr. Francis felt obliged to retire,
polite but wrathful, to the other end of the
room. It was not difficult to push the great
velvet arm-chairs so as to secure perfect
privacy ; Mr. Francis understood this, and saw
another profit by his skill. Cordelia had
something to say.

'Do you think you ought to come and
play roulette up there, George ? '

c Why not ? This is the second season I
have enjoyed the privilege

c You have not been here for a fortnight''

4 Nobody has asked me since your brother-in-law
arrived. To-night I am here on your
father's suggestion, though I am not playing
roulette for the moment.'

4 Duncan has gone to Cannes

% With the tracts and the concern for our
souls ? '

fc He has left plenty of tracts all about
the hotel. Never mind them, I am afraid no
one does. George, you know what I mean.
Of course Sophy ought not to ask you ; and
though there is excuse for some of the other
men, you, I know, would think it a shabby
sort of trick in other people.'

'You give me credit for being better than
I am, so when I am with you I have a strong
wish to live up to your good opinion.'

1 Could not you keep it up ? '

1 Xot unless I were always with you ; you
do this when you see me by accident, and yet
you class me with the worst of the unrighteous,
and do not allow me your society. 1
saw you the other day at Cap Martin, sitting
at Lichfield's feet and looking quite the meek
convert. You used to go on the hills with
me, and I sat at your feet. Those good days
are over now.'

You never sat at my feet, in any sense.
You do not clo the least little thing I ask
you,' said Cordelia, plaintively, still thinking
of Duncan.

I do not choose that you should call
anything I do a shabby trick ; it is a horrid
hard word, Miss Ashby, and it little becomes
you. If I were to justify myself I should
not please you, and perhaps it would be really
shabby. I will not go upstairs again, if that
will content you.'

Cordelia looked pleased. ' You know
Duncan is a thoroughly good fellow, in spite
of this twist  and you know that Sophy's
ways would not suit him if he understood
them. 1 have been trying so hard to
help her to keep straight with him, and the
first night he is away she has all this set
about her again. What would he say if he
knew ! '

Say a naughty word ; it would do him a
power of good to find he had been so human

as to say it,' said George, putting back his
head wearily. Cordelia looked at him.

1 1 ani afraid you are very seedy, George ;
you look very bad. Does your head ache ? '

1 I am all aches. Every nerve I have got
and all my affairs ache. If you would not
laugh at me I should say that my heart
ached.'

I do not laugh at you. I am too sorry ;
surely you are not drinking too much  you
never did that ? ' Cordelia's early training
prevented her being afraid to make this suggestion,
of which Lettice would have been
quite incapable, at least to an equal.

 Not for some years past ; but there are
more ways of killing a dog than hanging him
drugs are at least as bad as drink.'

Xot if they are to do you good,' said she,
knowing exactly nothing about it.

Bless your innocent heart ! Are you a
little sorry that I should go altogether to the
bad, Cordie ? '

More tli an a little. You are sorry for
yourself, too.'

There is just one chance for me, if you
will give it to me. Will you do a great
thing to give me a lift ? '

He wants me to speak to Mr. Odiarne for
him, and ask him to put him in better ways,
as I offered to do before,' thought this foolish
Cordelia, unwitting of the ways of men.
Yes, George, I will do it,' she said, with
cheerful acquiescence.

He looked with a great sadness and hopeless
longing at her fair, kindly face, so pitiful
now for him. c Can you really give me this
chance, after all my sins towards you ? ' he
asked, hanging back from his plunge.

Of course I will ; you know I never bear
malice.'

Cordelia was still thinking of Mr. Odiarne,
wishing that her own folly had not made
that difficult which should have been easy,
and picturing her Yicar's grave kindness to a

returning prodigal ; yet she had time to
wonder why George reminded her of such a
very different person as Mayne Wastell on
the journey to Dover.

He hesitated and glanced round the room
to see who might be listening. No one. A
party of Swedes were enjoying a businesslike
conversation at one end of the room ; while
near at hand a French lady w T as playing
piquet with a good deal of noise and demonstration,
forming a substantial barrier between
these two and the rest of the room ;
Mr. Francis, who had very sharp ears, was
happily engaged in his nightly combat for the
'Times.' George drew a little nearer, and
said in a quiet voice 

c Will you take me in hand altogether ? I
know what a bad bargain I am, and what a
pass I have come to ; but all that is good in
me  not much, Cordie  belongs to you.'

Cordelia looked at him with a little shake
of the head. It might be easy to hand over a

penitent to Mr. Odiarne  and a grain of self-satisfaction
might be got out of doing so ; but
for herself she had no mind again to try ' her
prentice hand on man.' She soon understood
better.

6 There is just this one chance for me. If
I go to my people and say that I will give up
all this  knocking about, play, and all the
rest  because a good and very dear and
beautiful girl will marry me and set me to
rights, they will settle up my affairs and
arrange a little income for a start. We would
go away from all this, wherever you liked,
and you should make just what you pleased
of me. I should be utterly in your hands, dear
girl, and I love you enough to make up fora
good many of my sins and shortcomings.'

The full red tide was high in Cordelia's
cheeks long before the little income was
reached. She would have started to her feet
if George had not laid his hand on her arm
and made her listen to the end.

4 Oh, clear ! What have you done ? You
have put your foot in it this time ! How
could you say such a thing? How furious
the Colonel will be ! '

I shall have no difficulty in coining to an
agreement with Colonel Ashby,' said George,
with an upward jerk of the head that was not
lost on Cordelia, who was gazing full at him
in a pink dismay. ' Xow give your mind to
what I say ; I am in most serious earnest.
Men talk of offering their lives to the girls
they wish to marry, but I am asking you to
save my life as well as to take it ; there is
more than a chance for me if you will try ; if
you will not. there must be a speedy end. I
have had few concealments from you, Cordie ;
you know me better than most people, because
you know the little good as well as the much
bad. Xow. think of it quietly a few minutes ;
judge if I am worth saving, and remember
that, quite apart from what I ask you, I love
you dearly."

In order not to attract attention he took
up a newspaper, but the nervous movements
of his thin hands showed how hard it was for
him to keep this silence ; ' a few minutes ' by
the clock would have seemed an age. Not
for one minute could he keep his miserable
eyes from her face, forcing out his answer.

4 How can I say anything ? ' she whispered ;
6 1 cannot do as you wish ; no, never ! If
I could try it, I should do you no good. I
could not save you ; you do not know ! Oh,
you ought not to put it to me in that way ! '

He caught his breath a little. ' No, I ought
not ; it is a blackguard thing to do, you poor
child. Drowning men catch at straws, you
know, and you are my straw  or rather my
hope is, for you are strong enough to float
me ; there is strength and power in you, little
Cordie, though you do look so frightened now.
You know, darling, there is only one thing to
think about  whether you can care for me ;
a little love is enough now, but a little will

grow to much. Only that will do me any
1, Cannot you find a little for me ? '
She shook her head. Tears were in her
eyes, and a keen pain in her heart, but her
mind was quite clear and settled. George
took up his paper again to give her time to
recover herself. Presently he looked over
it, inquiringly, entreatingly. She shook her
head again, sorrowfully, but decidedly. ' Will
you come upstairs now ? ' she asked

Quatre-vingt dix-sept ! ' shrieked the old
lady over her piquet ; she did not play fair,
and her opponent, an elderly Englishman,
knew it. but could do nothing against a lady
who had such a voice, and was so impervious
to hints.

 I rood-night,' said Mr. Francis, rather asa
reproach than a benediction. They did not
seem to have amused each other much, and
Miss Ashby might as well have amused him.

Quatre-vingt dix-neuf ! ' Madame was
playing for francs, and meant to win them,

but she had a glance to spare for the English
pair, whose long unchaperoned conversation
would furnish her next morning's scandal.

George only went so far upstairs as would
take him out of hearing of the waiters and
loungers in the hall. ' Well, good-bye,
Cordie ! '

Oh, poor, poor George ; I am so sorry,'
said she, answering the clasp of his burning
hand, and with her tears now at liberty to
fall.

Don't be sorry, dear ; it matters to no
one but to me ; and if you cannot, you cannot.
You are quite sure ? '

Quite sure ; indeed I cannot.'
Then good-night, Cordie ; don't cry.'
Both Colonel Ashby and Mrs. Lichfield
remarked next day on George Kingdon's
wretched looks and his early disappearance
from their party ; but neither asked Cordelia
if she had seen him, nor noticed how grave
and preoccupied she was. Even Fero could

not get his usual romps with her, and Therese
tended her as for a * migraine.' Uselessly and
bitterly she reproached herself for all she had
done and said, and for much she had left
undone and unsaid, in her dealings with
George. She could find no comfort, for Miss
Carslake was ill and could not see her. How
she longed for the peace, security, and abounding
help of Ivy Cottage and Wastell Warren !

That day Mrs. Lichfield drove out with
her father and a young Irish couple whose
acquaintance she had lately made. Cordelia
knew, without being told, that they spent the
afternoon at Monte Carlo, not returning to the
hotel until late. Mrs. Lichfield was looking
very bright and excited  no doubt she had
been successful. The next day Colonel Ash by
had an engagement at Nice, which he could
not or would not give up to escort Mrs.
Lichfield to Monte Carlo as she wished.

Is not Yon Lensky going ? ' he asked.

Yes ; but neither Mrs. Totally nor Con-vol.

II. M

tess Actors can go. It is most likely my
last day, and I am just in the vein. You
must go, Cordelia.'

'Do stay at home to-day, Sophy. Just
think of Duncan ; please do not go ! '

I will not have Duncan named to me in
that way. He has never objected to my
going. I have let you off whenever I could ;
you may as well oblige me to-day.'

Cordelia will oblige you, of course ; I am
surprised that she should make any objection,'
decided the Colonel.

1 suppose George Kingdon will be with
you ? ' asked Sophy of her father.

'No. He has rather dropped out of the
prince's set. It requires either a good deal of
money or a great deal of skill and nerve to
keep a footing there. George has gone under
very much lately.'

Very quietly dressed, with a quantity
of well-disposed black lace about her, with
perfect gloves and portemonnaie, Mrs. Lichfield

entered the Casino that afternoon, her
unwilling sister by her side. They went by
train, and Von Lensky met them at the
station ; he looked surprised to see Cordelia,
who, it had been explained to him, was devote,
and so took little part in their amusements.
To-day Mrs. Lichfield said airily that her
sister was very young, one could not always
be devote at her age, she was taking a little
relaxation. Cordelia's severe young eyes
flashed an indignant denial of this falsehood,
which Von Lensky quite understood ; but she
did not speak, and followed Sophy into the
gaming-rooms.

1 If you sit down I shall go away and wait
for you outside,' she said to Mrs. Lichfield.
So she stood till her heels ached on the outskirts
of the circles round the tables, keeping
her eyes from the games, from the faces, from
the pictures on the walls, till she found
nothing to look at but the backs of coats and
her sister's bonnet. At last the Austrian, who

M 2

was also tired of standing, induced Mrs.
Lichfield to take a chair ; and Cordelia, feeling
absolved, went out and entered the concert-room,
not seeing George Kingdon, who came
into the vestibule as she passed through it.

Being a Thursday, the afternoon for classical
music, the theatre was crowded, chiefly
by lovers of music who did not care to inquire
too closely into the means by which their
delight was procured for them. Cordelia's
taste for music had been awakened at the
Warren ; as yet she often felt it in a way that
was a pain rather than a pleasure, from the
depths of inarticulate, uncompreh ended feeling
that were stirred in her 

Oh ! what is this that knows the road I came,
The flame turned cloud, the cloud returned to flame,
The lifted shifted steeps and all the way %

In a little time the ' moving sound ' was
too much for her already overstrung nerves,
and she struggled out through the crowd to
the nearly deserted reading room. Here it

was at least cool and quiet, and she sat behind
a ' Saturday Review ' trying to overcome an
inclination to sob. She had succeeded pretty
well, having made great advances in the art
of self-command during the last year, when
George Kingdon came in and quietly greeted
her.

You have found the best place there is
under this unholy roof; may I sit here with
you a little ? '

Yes, do. I am waiting for Sophy

1 You are on duty, I know, or you would
not be here. It is odd to see you in that
light. Stick to it ; do not let them drag you
down into the mud again, after the good
fight you have made. Stick to it, and perhaps
some of those good folks in Outshine
will do something to help you through. You
are a plucky girl, Cordie, to have done so
much for yourself; I do not know another
who would have done it.'

'Not myself, George. A good  I mean,

good people have helped me  and, I will
whisper, God helps me  He does it all. Something
strong keeps me and will not let me go,
even when I try to get loose.'

It was very hard for Cordelia to say this
she could not have said it to Duncan in
answer to his most searching questions.
George did not answer. He looked at her a
moment, then went to a table and took up a
paper, came back, and then stood up again
restlessly.

fc I wish Sophy was ready to go back,' said
Cordelia, suggestively.

I will look for her.'

He went, and did not come back for a
quarter of an hour. Then he did not seem to
remember what he had gone for. ' Have you
any money? ' he asked.

'Yes, a little,' putting her hand to her
pocket ; ' but why do you want it ? '

Oh, you know. There was a run when I
went in there just now ; I took it the wrong

way, and cleared myself out. Xow your little
loan would bring me luck. Come, have you
not twenty francs  ten francs ? It is sure to
prosper ; let us go halves, as we used to do at
Les Citrons ! '

Xo. I must not play. I never do 
now

4 But it is not you that will play, little
prude. You would lend me the change in the
street, and never think of how I spent it, nor
remember it till I brought it back to you
folded up neatly. Your money would be sure
to win : you know how the chances go.'

Indeed, I do. Oh, George, you remember
taking me home that bad night ! '

1 How angry you were ! Do not fly up
a hill before me again, I could not hope to
catch you now. Will you give me those
few francs ? If not, I must go away  and
then '

1 Xo, no, I cannot do it ; I ought not.
George, why do you always ask me for what

I cannot give ? ' She looked all her distress.


Very well, I dare say it does not matter
much ; and, as you say, I ask the wrong things
of you. Here is your sister ! '

George sauntered down to the station with
them, but he did not enter the train, as Cordelia
hoped he would do.

Good evening, Mrs. Lichfield. Have you
had a good day ? I have not ; I wanted to
borrow ten francs of your sister, but she will
not trust me, even so far.'

I have some small change  see here ! '
Mrs. Lichfield, who never particularised her
winnings or losses, produced some gold pieces.

Thank you, no, it is not what I wanted ;
and it is too late now. Good-bye, Cordie ; we
part friends ? '

Cordelia leant down to shake hands with
him, rather needlessly as it seemed ; and the
train moved off.

1 How odd he is growing ! Friends, indeed
! You allow him too many liberties.
Cordelia.'

Mrs. Lichfield was securing her purse, and
did not see her sister's face.

CHAPTEE XXV. .

OUT OF SIGHT.

Thou shalt not kill ; but needs not strive
Officiously to keep alive.

A. H. Clough.

Wet days at Mentone are rare enough to
make people especially helpless when they do
come. The day after Cordelia's unwilling
visit to Monte Carlo was of the very wettest.
Sophy openly lamented the spoiling of one of
her holidays, as she chose to call the days of
her husband's absence. Cordelia's mind was
in a ferment, even the steady persistence of
Fraulein Helena could not make her attend to
their joint studies after the brief visit of their
Italian master ; and she could not go to see
Miss Carslake. Her secret fret brought to her
mind those autumn rains that prevented her
farewell from Mr. Odiarne. With much

surprise and a little shame she realised how
very little her present worry had to do with
Mr. Odiarne and Maybury ; if she had been
more given to self-inspection she might have
wondered that it had so little to do with
herself personally.

Colonel Ashby returned from Nice early in
the afternoon, and after the briefest inspection
of his family went out again to the club.
Just before dinner he came into their little
salon to see if his daughters were ready to go
down. Mrs. Lichfield was waiting while
Cordelia arranged some heavy yellow rosebuds
for her ; flowers were the only matter of
personal adornment with which the younger
sister was the more skilful. Their father
sauntered to the streaming windows and surveyed
the wet prospect from them alternately,
before he spoke.

Quite a sad thing has happened to-day 
really most upsetting and painful. You have
heard nothing ? You, Cordelia ? '

< No ; is it Miss Carslake ? '

1 Who the deuce is Miss Carslake ? ' asked
the Colonel, testily. He got no answer, for
as it was not Miss Carslake, there was no
need to reply, and he went on  ' It is poor
George Kingdon. They found him this morning
in bed  dead some hours  doctors not
of the slightest use  a chloral bottle by his
side. As it was not empty, of course it was
an accident  an over-dose, you know. It is
always better to say an accident in these
cases ; it saves the feelings of the family 
and, in fact, it is usually done.'

How awfully shocking ! Poor George !
We saw him only yesterday, looking deathlike
then ; but how could one guess that he
was going to do such a dreadful thing? I
do not know if he had been losing ; was he
not asking you for some change, Cordelia?
Oh, child ! how clumsy you are ; you have
broken the best bud ! '

Cordelia, who was sitting on the sofa,

threw the flowers sharply on to the table ;
but she did not speak. With reproachful
politeness, Colonel Ashby took them up and
offered them to Sophy, who fastened them
under her white chin, talking the while.

What a fuss it will make ! more here
than if it had happened at Nice. Englishmen
so seldom do these things ; George himself
used to laugh at the theatrical way the French
shopboys have of concluding themselves when
they have lost their own or their master's
money ; but really this is too sad ! It makes
one quite melancholy. It is a good thing
Duncan is not here to improve the occasion,
he would be dreadful over it. I am really
very sorry for poor George ! '

Pray remember that it is pronounced an
accident. It is extremely awkward for his
people. Lord Rowe is almost an elderly man,
older by several  oh, by a good many years
than I am. It will give him quite a shake,
though George was only a younger son ; these

things do give a shake. I wish it had not
occurred. Are you ready, my dear? Cordelia,
are you coming ? '

1 No, I am not.'

Why not ? You must not appear too
much affected by this sad affair ; it would
show a great want of propriety.'

I will come if you wish it ; but I daresay
I shall howl aloud in the middle of
dinner,' said Cordelia, distinctly and grimly.

Then stay away by all means, it is the
lesser evil ; but I warn you that it is very
bad taste of an unmarried girl to show her
exaggerated feelings in this way.'

Cordelia only waited to be sure that every
guest had gone to dinner and every servant
had left the corridors, and then flew up to
her room  to think it over and have her cry,
she said ; but the grief and horror were too
much for her strength ; she passed a miserable
night, and was quite broken down next
day.

What am I to do with Cordelia ? ' Mrs.
Lichfield asked of her father, two days later ;
she will not eat, nor go out, and the least
word, or a new person in the room, brings
a flood of tears. I really do not think she
can help it. Therese says she does not sleep,
but is up late at night and early in the
morning.'

Colonel Ashby felt justly annoyed, and
commanded the presence of the delinquent.
She looked very ill, the young fresh face
changed so quickly with sorrow and watching
; the shock had been very severe, and
borne entirely alone, without a word of encouragement
or sympathy. She had passed
the days and nights since in a passion of
prayer for this poor sinful soul, and in an
agony of repentance for her sins against it,
direct and indirect. No wonder she looked
ill. Colonel Ashby when he saw it forbore
to urge her immediate return to society  she
really was not fit to be seen; but he gave

her a well expressed lecture on the folly of
her behaviour, and on the social enormity and
general inexpediency of encouraging the addresses
of a young man who was manifestly
not in a position to marry ; and then when
the knot was thus cut for her, avoiding the
inevitable complications in a way that, sofar
as she was concerned, might almost be
termed fortunate, to mourn in this excessive
and disproportionate manner  J like a lovesick
housemaid,' he concluded, warmed by
his own honest indignation.

Cordelia's anger at this treatment was sofar
tonic that she did not cry, neither did she
argue nor defend herself; but asked, 'When
is he to be buried ? '

To-morrow, in the afternoon. A relative,
and I believe Lord Eowe's man of business,
are expected from London in the morning.
On consideration, I have decided not to be
present at the funeral ; these things are excessively
depressing. Lord Eowe will not be

here himself; and really, of late, poor young
Kingdon has dropped very much out of
my set

1 1 shall go,' announced Cordelia.

The Colonel looked thoroughly frightened.
Indeed, you will not ! I can permit no such
indelicate exhibition. Your sister, any one,
with the slightest pretension to knowledge of
the world, will tell you that it is out of the
question, especially as you are so lamentably
wanting in self-control. I lay my express
commands on you that you do not go.'

This was final ; it might not have been
last year, but Cordelia had been brought to
recognise one of her duties, though she was
not sufficiently advanced in the path of obedience
to submit without remonstrance, and
she spoke passionately 

If you say so, I must not go ; but who
should go if we do not ? We should all of
us be there, for very shame, if not for grief!
We  all of us have helped to destroy him !

VOL. II. N

we have brought him to his grave, and we
ought to see him laid in it. We ought to
be there !  Sophy, you, and I ! '

Nothing could well look less like shame
and grief than Colonel Ashby and Mrs. Lichfield
in their usual neat morning dress and
their air of polite regret. Cordelia stood up
before them in her shabby black gown, with
feverish lips and red eyes, like a young
accuser, denouncing the harm they had done.
It was difficult to make an impression on
Sophy, but Colonel Ashby was uneasy, and
with cause. Many pointed and unpleasant
things had been said in Mentone during the
last two days about the gambling that brought
George Kingdon to his sorry end, and they
were more emphatically said about the elder
men who prepared pitfalls for the younger
ones. ' Pitfalls ' is a very disagreeable word ;
but it had been used freely, and, moreover,
repeated by candid friends who intended that
Colonel Ashby should feel its full force and

significance. He did feel it, and, though he
knew there were others who could share the
application of it with him, he was so far
touched that lie balanced in his mind whether
he should leave Mentone at once, or whether
he should show his perfect innocence by his
calm and unconcerned bearing, making no
change in his plans. Deciding on the latter
course, it was essential to its success that his
daughters should support him in his calmness
and unconcern. Sophy could be thoroughly
depended upon for this ; but here was Cordelia,
irreconcilable as usual, making herself
ill with unreasonable grief, and when an effort
was made to rouse her, rousing with a vengeance,
and putting the vague reproach conveyed
figuratively in the word ' pitfalls ' into
absolutely brutal language. She must be
silenced.

4 Sit down, Cordelia ; take that chair.'
Cordelia must needs obey, not calculating,
as her father did, that a sitting posture and a

furious rage are incompatible in young and
impulsive persons ; politely seated opposite to
him, with Sophy sewing at a dress for Fero
on the other side of the room, she could not
well denounce herself and her relations as
murderous, a word that a moment ago was
too strong for her excitement ; besides, the
grains of truth and reason in Colonel Ashby's
worldly wisdom were not without their effect
on her.

6 Now listen to me ! These scenes are
most unpleasant to me, and must not be repeated
; I speak once for all, and intend to be
obeyed. You do not go to this funeral, nor do
you go anywhere nor see any one until you canso
control your feelings as not to bring remarks
on yourself. As to the intemperate language
you permitted yourself just now, I will be so
lenient as to set it down to the shock you have
sustained in the sudden and lamented death
of a person who at one time formed part of
our little circle of intimates. There are things

which are better not discussed even onions
ourselves ; but as I noticed that you included
yourself in your absurd condemnation, I will
assure you that no little penchant you may
imagine Mr. Kingdon to have entertained for
yourself can by an hour have hastened his
unhappy  a  demise. His health has long
been hopelessly bad, and his habit of taking
pernicious drugs was so confirmed that the
end could not have been long delayed. I cannot,
therefore, allow you to nurse any romantic
fancies on the subject. Now go  take a little
repose ; and tomorrow, or the next day, if you
are in good looks, resume your usual habits.'

1 If you are going upstairs, Cordelia, take
this skirt to Therese,' said Sophy, wasting her
words, as her sister flew past her.

Very early the next morning, as the first
of the men who wear green baize aprons was
yawning over the unfastening of the hotel
door, one of the English ladies slipped past
him, and was out of sight before his German

wits could assign to her an errand. It was
Cordelia, of course. Down she went to her
favourite flower-shop, where the first baskets
were being opened and their fragrance spread
over all the roadway before the door. Then
she went along the empty wide streets, and up
the busier narrower ones where the real Men-tones
live and work, and buy and sell, the
more briskly perhaps for les Strangers who
come to the great hotels and little villas east
and west of their old town, but quite apart
from and independent of them. She passed the
church of the Black Penitents, with a feeling
that it might be well for her to belong to some
such order. Leaving the cathedral on her
right, she went still steeply upwards to the hill
of the old fortress, where the cemetery rises,
tier above tier of white monuments and dark
cypresses, where, in faith and hope and
tenderest living love, the dead are lifted up
above the busy life below toward the blue
heaven above. Here, alone in the mortuary

chapel, George Kingdon's coffin waited for
burial, and a little way off the gardien showed
her the expectant grave.

She had wept so much that no more tears
came, and there, in the open glory and the
joy of the morning, she could not pray after
the fashion in which she had prayed in her
little room ; now the dimness was over, and.
landing ' wearied on the shores of day,' she
had come to a larger light, and a calming
perception of immensities of wisdom and
breadths of purpose and depths of love,
which she could not comprehend, but before
which she could bend in trustful submission.
Her knees trembled with weakness and with
her rapid walk, so she sat down on the steps,
and, leaning her head against a stone already
warmed with the sunshine, breathing the delicate
sweetness of the air, she thought once
more the thoughts of the past sad days  but
with a difference ! Not George lying on his
bed with the chloral bottle by his side, as she

could not help picturing again and again ; nor
George, as she remembered only too vividly,
with drawn, impatient face, begging her to give
him a last chance  she knew now that it was
a last one  at that horrible gaming-table ; not
these ideas of him were foremost ; but it was
George her friend, whom she thought of;
George who used to tease her, defend her,
walk with her, let her talk to him of all the
hopes and visions that were told to no one
else in those days ; George who would not
leave her when she offended him, who loved
her better than she knew, selfishly it might be,
but still loved her ; George who asked her to
pray for him.

A white cross near her, and a few humble
words over a stranger's grave, brought another
line of thought. ' George was not always
good to me,' she pondered ; ' but if I, a mass
of selfishness and folly and blunders, can so
easily forgive him, and be so very, very sorry
for him  seeing that things were often very

much against him, and that there was good
in him that made him different from all these
others, surely I may trust our dear Lord to
see it all. He will not be the worse because I
could not help him. Oh, poor George, poor
George ! I wonder if you know now that I
could not have done anything for you ! I do
not think now you would reproach me as you
did the other day at that hateful place ! '

Two or three considerations made Colonel
Ashby change his mind and attend George
Kingdon's funeral. He glanced nervously
about him at the grave, lest Cordelia, in whose
obedience he had small faith, should have come
there in spite of him. It was a relief not to
see her, and it was not necessary to impart to
any one his certainty that the rather tumbled
mass of violets and white roses at the foot
of the coffin had been heaped there by his
younger daughter.

CHAPTER Xxii.

SIDE LIGHTS.

Pray hurt him not -, though he he dead,

He knows well who do love him ;
And who with green turfs rear his head,

And who do rudely move him.

R. Herrick.

The fresh air and her morning's exertion did
Cordelia good. Duncan came back that
evening, and for Duncan's sake she was ready
to make a struggle. She did not dine at the
table d'hote, but she put on a clean white frock
and went into her sister's salon in the evening,
knowing that her brother-in-law would be a
sufficient protection from Yon Lensky and his
kind , Duncan was in good spirits, and groaned
over his neighbours' sins quite cheerfully ; he
was pleased to be with them again, and full of
talk. Fero also welcomed him with joy ; the

child had soon found out that better even than
his Cordie his father could play with him,
and that he had no scruples about hide-and-seek
in the corridors or races on the terrace.
The aunts at Cannes were Plymouth Brethren,
and wished Duncan to enrol himself in that
bod)' ; but even the very small modicum of
doctrine required by the Brethren was too
great a tie to him in what he called proclaiming
the free gospel. There had been much
discussion between the ladies and their
nephew; the differences were fine-drawn, and
the absence of any fixed teaching or opinion
from the religious views that only aimed
at producing a certain state of feeling had
made argument especially difficult and trying.
They've had wigs on the green ; I wonder
what the old ladies are saying,' speculated
Cordelia, as Duncan recounted his victories.
Colonel Ashby strolled out, as he was apt todo
from a family circle that included his son-in-law,
who presently asked casually, c Do you

know anything of the unhappy young man
Kingdon, of whose miserable end so much is being
said at Cannes ? You are not likely to know
much of him, however, for I heard that he was
a confirmed gambler and entirely of this world.'

We knew him slightly ; every one did
here ; he was Lord Rowe's son, you know.
Papa made his acquaintance some time ago;
but this winter he has seen much less of him,'
answered Mrs. Lichfield, glancing at her sister.

Naturally, when he kept such bad company,'
replied Duncan. ' I heard loud blame
of the associates who lured him to destruction
miserable men ! There is blood on their
hands  yes, blood ! '

Do not talk in that horrid way, Duncan,
or Cordie will be in hysterics. Mr. Kingdon
was rather an admirer of hers ; Papa did not
approve of him, and it was not serious ; but it
happened that he was at this hotel a few
evenings before  before Friday  and of course
this has been a shock to her.' Mrs. Lichfield

spoke hastily, hoping that her husband would
quit the subject  but no ! He turned quickly
to Cordelia, ' You knew him ? You saw him
lately ? Oh. did you not speak one word of the
truth ? Did you not make one last appeal ? '

Cordelia did not speak ; Sophy answered as
if she had been addressed, ' You know I never
say that kind of thing ; to a gentleman and
in general society it would not be thought at
all the right thing for us to do. George Kingdon
was just as usual the other night, how
could I tell he that wanted a last appeal?'

Oh, if I could have seen him, could once
have bidden him remember his precious soul !
Cordelia, you must have had opportunities,
and you are at least a groper for the truth.
Have you never said a word of warning, never
offered a prayer for him ? Is he lost  lost  and
you have never declared to him the gospel
news of free salvation ? '

With blushes and hesitation, Cordelia
spoke at last : ' I tried  that is, I did nothing

Duncan, I do not believe that George is
lost ; we have no right to judge him and say
he is lost ; all we know is that he is dead, and
in the hands of the Most Merciful. I am
not like you, I cannot speak seriously to anyone
and anyhow  besides, I always say the
wrong things ; several times I h ave tried to
speak to George, and in a sort of way he took
notice  not the right way, I am afraid. I
prayed for him  he asked me  I do so still,
but differently.'

Duncan looked at her ; she puzzled him.
He did .not often try to understand people ; if
they could say his test words  well, they were
all right and on his side ; if not, they were
subjects for spiritual experiment, of a crude
and rudimentary kind, but with distinct issues.
With Cordelia he could not tell whether his
experiments succeeded or failed. Of one
thing he was quite sure, it was wrong of her
to pray for the dead ; and, though quite unprovided
with arguments on the subject, he

was going boldly to the attack, when a card
was brought to Mrs. Lichfield  ' Mr. Bonn ell '
desired an interview with Colonel Ashby, or
the ladies. To save steps Max had already
brought the stranger to the door. Mrs. Lichfield
hastily decided that any one possessing a
gentleman's card would be a welcome distraction
that evening ; so Mr. Bonnell came in,
explaining himself as Lord Rowe's solicitor
and confidential friend.

He was an iron-grey man, very exactly
dressed and trimmed, and as clearly London-made
as if he had been stamped with the
letters. He had a well-featured open face,
and a pleasant easy manner, both rather contradicted
by his quick observant eyes. He
was serious, as became his errand ; but George
Kingdon was not a person whose death could
cause poignant distress, even to the attached
family , lawyer ; and, besides being superior
to such affectations, he personally enjoyed this
run to the Riviera in the choice part of

the season, and he meant to go tomorrow to
Monte Carlo to see for himself at least one of
the snares that had caught and destroyed his
client's son. He told them that, hearing of
Colonel Ashby and his daughters as among
Mr. Kingdon's more intimate friends, and also
that the ladies were the last people with whom
the poor young man was seen, he had called
to glean some such particulars as might make
his task easier when he returned to England.

1 You know, madam, what a mother's
feelings are, how the smallest details will be
of interest to poor Lady Eowe, a most charming
and estimable woman ; and you can see
how scanty these details must be, as I, a
stranger, glean them at the hotel, at the club,
among men and perhaps very casual acquaintances.
Now ladies invariably speak kindly of
their friends ; and you, I am sure, will understand
what it will be to this afflicted lady to
hear a word or two of her son's last days
from friendly lips.'

To this pleading Mrs. Lichfield could
easily have made effectual answer but for
Duncan's presence. Cordelia she would not
have minded in the matter of fibs, but her husband
could not have the usual plea of necessity
and the ways of society forced upon him.

Eeally, Mr. Bonnell, I should be delighted
to say anything in my power to comfort the
poor lady; but I hardly know how. We were
sadly shocked, quite upset by the news, but
Mr. Kingdon was not such a very intimate
friend ; it is true that he was at this hotel a
few days before his accident, and he was fora
few minutes in this room, but he went afterwards
to the salon to see his friends there,
and I recall nothing clearly that he said  how
should I, having no idea  of course I was not

to be expected ' She hesitated, and was

lost. Mr. Bonnell detected at once that her
words did not ring perfectly true ; as he had
the information that the ladies with whom
George was seen on Thursday afternoon at

VOL. II. o

Monte Carlo were Colonel Ashby's daughters,
lie knew that Mrs. Lichfield had something to
conceal, and his instinct was to find it out.
He said nothing, but continued to look expectantly
at her. Thus pressed, Sophy did
the last thing she wished to do, she appealed
to her sister, ' Mr. Kingdon talked to you that
evening, Cordelia, and you thought he looked
just as usual.'

No,' said Cordelia, in the same tone she
would have used had the word been ' yes ' and
required no following up.

Mr. Bonnell turned to where she sat,
fingering absently a little packet that Max
had brought her when he introduced the
stranger. As he always looked carefully at
people before he spoke to them, the instant of
his survey gave a space into which Duncan
promptly inserted himself.

6 1 fear there are no grounds for hope that
at the eleventh hour this unfortunate young
man enrolled himself among the Lord's people.

He lived in his sins, and therefore could
hardly be a chosen associate of my wife. I
believe, however, that my sister-in-law, who
is feeling after the truth, has appealed to him
more than once to throw his idols to :he
moles and to the bats.'

Mr. Bonnell gave way to the rare weakness
of a visible start. He had too hastily
concluded that the trim little soldier who was
Colonel Ashby's son-in-law, and whose wife
had secrets, was a member of the * bad company'
responsible for George's end, and he
had been reserving some plain words for him.
Ah ! yes, yes ; precisely so. You then, Miss
Ashby, did not think the poor fellow in his
usual health or spirits on the last occasion 
I think, madam, you said it was the last
occasion on which you saw him ? '

He looked very miserable and very ill.

He has looked ill all the winter, but that

night worse than I ever saw him, all in deep

lines and with a blue shade in his face. He



said he should not live long, unless he  at
least  he said he was ill.'

'And you very amiably urged some
amendment on him ? ' asked the lawyer, an
instant convert to this fair face and these
slow, true words.

1 No, not then. He asked me to do something
for him that I could not do ; but we
were good friends then, and on Thursday too,
though even then I did not do something
else he wanted  I wish I had ! Indeed, he
was not so bad ; I liked him always, in spite
of everything  and sometimes he wished to
be better. Oh ! '

Cordelia's faltering ended in a little
shriek of surprise and then a shower of tears.
Her nervous fingers had untied the little
parcel in her lap, and she found in it  George
Kingdon's ring ! There was no mistaking it,
even at the first absent glance  it was a
square piece of carnelian engraved with his
initials and the family crest. It had come

from a jeweller in Men tone, who had enclosed
a direction in George's handwriting that the
ring was to be repaired and sent to Miss
Ashby, Hotel des Citrons. Cordelia looked
at it, and Mr. Bonnell looked at her. Duncan
was hoping earnestly that Cordelia might be
strengthened to speak the truth  or to testify,
as he phrased it  with a view to Mr. Bonnell's
spiritual enlightenment ; lie was not jealous,
she might make the convert if she could doit
better than he. Cordelia did testify, but
not quite as he expected. Drying her tears,
she gave the packet and note to Mr. Bonnell.
This is George's. You must take it to
his mother  to Lady Rowe. I had better
tell you all I know about him, and then you
can judge what to say to her. He and I
agreed last year that if I found any one to
teach me how to be a good woman I was tolet
him know. I found some one  just the
very person, and I wished George to learn
from him too  or, at least, to let me tell him.'

By this time Cordelia's blushes had reached
their crimson maximum, and no more could
be expected from her in that way. ' I made
a mess of it then, and said the wrong things ;
it was my fault for being so stupid, not his.
We spoke of it again here more than once,
and he was nice about it then I do not
know how much he cared ; not much, really,
I am afraid, though he wished he were a
better sort of man, and he liked me to speak
to him. Once he asked me to say a prayer
for him, but that was when he was very low,
and quite down on his luck.'

Cordelia's slang expressions came with the
more telling effect now that they were rare.
Mr. Bonnell, who had on a very sympathetic
expression, nearly lost it in his effort to
suppress a smile. c His luck at Monte Carlo,
I suppose you mean ? '

Yes, and at the clubs, and in men's
rooms  that is the worst play of all. He
spoke of his health too, and of not being
straight with his people.'

May I know what it was you could not
do for him a few days before his death ? '

Oh, I could not do it ! I could not. I
never cared for him in that way, and never
thought of his caring for me. I do not think
he did till just the last. He said  it was his
last chance if I would  marry him. He would
give up play and shady people, and only do
what I thought right. It was his one last
chance, and I could not give it to him ; tell
them I could not do it ; I am not good as he
thought I was, and if I had tried no good
would have come  but I could not.'

Of course you could not, dear young
lady ! There, there, don't cry. I am sure,
madam, your young sister's conduct was in
the highest degree creditable to her ; it is less
easy to say what I think of the selfishness that
would suggest such a sacrifice to her. She
will not allow me to say a word against her
friend, and now he is gone it is not necessary ;
but I share the regret you must feel for the

trial and perplexity she has gone through.
Were you aware of Mr. Kingdon's offer to
her?'

No ; I ought to have been informed. It
was not made with my sanction or her father's.
I think now that the less said about this painful
affair the better,' answered Mrs. Lichfield,
nervously.

1 But think how inestimably precious is
the least sign that this unhappy man sought
the truth ! Ah, if it had but been declared to
him in its fulness  that blessed truth ! ' said
Duncan.

Truth is always the best,' said Mr. Bonnell,
misunderstanding wilfully ; then turning
to Cordelia, who had recovered herself a
little, ' I hope you parted on friendly terms.
Was this the last time that you saw him ? '

No, we saw him on Thursday, at the
Casino ; he came to speak to me, and he put
us into the train to come away. He was not
angry  he came to me where I was waiting

for Sophy, and asked me to lend him five or
ten francs. I thought then it was only for
good luck, but now I am afraid it was his
last chance. I did not give him the money,
because I think it wrong to play at those
tables, but now I wish I had. Sophy had
been winning, but he would not take hers ; I
wish I had given it to him.'

Do not wish that. If your little loan
had been largely prosperous it would not
have been of the slightest real use. He was
so ill that the end was near  so near that the
chloral he took that night went for nothing.
Now, do not worry yourself any more. I
thank you most gratefully in the names of
Lord and Lady Eowe for the true and friendly
part you have acted towards their son ; had
all his friends been equally well chosen they
would not have had this sorrow. I will not
detain or distress you further than to say you
have not the smallest cause for self-reproach.'

Cordelia took these fine phrases as leave

to depart, and, giving him the ring and note,
she gladly went away. Her absence left him
free for a few caustic phrases to Mrs. Lichfield,
which ought, in truth, to have been spoken
to Colonel Ashby, but they never reached
him. Captain Lichfield's face had greatly
changed in the last ten minutes, but he did
not speak. Mrs. Sophy's baby curls seemed
out of place this evening, for her face looked
sharp, and older than her years, and a dull
red colour was on her cheeks, as different as
well might be from Cordelia's unmanageable
blushes. Her bad quarter of an hour was yet
to come, after Mr. Bonnell left them, saying
to himself, as he secured George's ring and
rapidly considered how much or how little of
this story should be told to Lady Eowe,
8 What queer people ! That egotistical
little captain has married the wrong sister ;
poor girl, poor girl ; handsome girl, too !
Well, " there's nowt so queer as folks," as my
Yorkshire clients observe.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

CLOUDY DAYS.

Faith and unfit can ne'er be equal powers,
Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all.

Tennyson.

After such an evening as the last the family
atmosphere was sure to be stormy next day.
Cordelia looked white and wretched, and
burst into tears when a waiter upset his tray.
Colonel Ashby was justly offended that private
differences were brought before him. Captain
Lichfield looked as grim as a newly fired
cannon, and only replied to the Colonel's tact
in making general conversation by groans ;
he soon disappeared for a solitary walk, and
did not take his tracts with him. Sophy was
very much reduced, and made no head at all
against circumstances ; what her husband had

said to her the night before did not transpire,
and for once her father did not sympathise
with her when she told him of Cordelia's
indiscretions and disclosures, with Duncan's
consequent anger.

Once more, Cordelia !  a perfect firebrand.
When you, my dear Sophy, and your
husband take up your domestic life again on
our return to England in May, I shall be compelled
to decide on a future for Cordelia. I
shall not be difficult about a settlement for
her, you may be sure ; but in the mean time,
unless you desire to keep her with you,
perhaps she had better go to her own relations
; they have done so much to unfit her
for her own station in life that they really
must accept the consequences. When you
leave me I shall no longer have a home, and
the winter at Biarritz, the spring in Paris, and
the rest of the year in England, with the club
for my pied-parterre, is not a life to which such
a difficult person as Cordelia will be a pleasant

addition. Her good looks, which are really
very considerable, are completely neutralised
by her want of style and savoir-vivre. There
is so much in race ; she resembles her mother.
Now your mother may be said to possess
almost too much savoir-vivre.'

'What am I to do about Duncan  he is
ready to turn me out of doors ? ' interrupted
Mrs. Lichfield, too much interested in her own
affairs for reminiscences. There is so much
in race, and to Colonel Ashby's daughter
'out of doors,' with its liberties but also its
securities, presented no attraction.

'I must say, my dear Sophy, that you
have not shown your usual discretion in your
management of your husband ; possibly he is
at times uncongenial, and it must be confessed
that he has little tact, and his views are somewhat
limited ; but you must consider that in
the present state of society it becomes yearly
more difficult to marry well, and you have
been happy in securing a most respectable

man  I consider Lichfield most respectable 
and he has an assured and solid position such
as is not to be picked up any day. Your
admirable tact and temper will smooth over
any little asperities or discrepancies of taste ;
I advise you to set about doing so without
delay, and to accept a position that you are
calculated to adorn.'

Duncan will not allow much adorning.
I wonder how you would like to pay visits to
his Scotch and Cumberland relations for four
or five months, and then to settle for the
winter in some large town where he can
spread the true light, with a prospect of India
and more true light after that ! '

Ah, my dear, if I were young and fair as
you are, I should feel it possible to adapt
myself to any career ; and I strongly recommend
you to look on the favourable side and
adapt yourself to yours ; particularly as it is
the only course open to you.'

I do not think I can have Cordelia

with me ; a third person is often very useful,
but she and Duncan make each other
worse.'

Then she must go to Miss Hooper. Something
may be made of young Wastell ; though
rather rustic, he is less eccentric than your
husband, and probably equally respectable,'
mused the Colonel, dispassionately.

Cordelia's reluctance to face the outside
world was overcome a few days later by Miss
Carslake, who had heard of George Kingdon's
death, and expected Cordelia and her confidences.
When days passed, and the girl did
not come, she sent Jane, who went with some
reluctance. Jane's mistrust of Cordelia as a
companion for her mistress being founded on
the abundant life and vigour that she thought
likely to overpower her charge, melted away
at sight of the young lady's pale face and
her nervous manner when she tried to give a
message of excuse. ' Won't you come down
now, miss ? It is a good time of day for my

mistress, and I can attend upon you, as I am
going back directly.'

The scale was turned by the offer of Jane's
company and countenance for the half-mile
walk through the avenues of Mentone, where
every other person was sure to be an acquaintance,
but not so certain to be a friend, and
Cordelia went. Jane told her how ill Miss
Carslake had been and still was, and all the
way she was resolving not to cry when she
saw her, as she had done at every fresh face
for the last fortnight ; but when she came to
her, and saw what good reason there was to
cry, the inclination left her, and she bore the
shock dry-eyed and without thought of herself
or her feelings, thereby completing her conquest
of Jane. In ten days her friend  her
new, dear, good friend  had changed from an
invalid to a dying woman. Even Cordelia's
inexperience left her no doubt of that, for the
large dark eyes were dimmed, and the bright
fresh voice, that had always seemed to contradict

the evidence of the frail form, was
hoarse and low ; she seemed to have given up
the struggle, but to have found an extraordinary
peace and relief in her surrender.
A lady, with a handsome, prosaic face, and a
firm, stout figure, was sitting by the window.
Miss Carslake named her as Mrs. Farquhar,
and, still holding tightly by Cordelia's hand,
said, ' Miss Ashby and I are great friends,
Maria, and we have our little secrets ; will
you trust us to each other for a short time? '

4 Oh, of course. I should be very sorry to
interrupt confidences, but it must be a very
short time, dearest Harriet ; remember how
weak you are, and how serious it is for you to

be exhausted .' Mrs. Farquhar had not

finished her remonstrance ; but Jane, who was
also leaving the room, respectfully held open
the door, and the lady was obliged to go, her
high-pitched artificial voice sounding all along
the corridor.

Sit down, dear. It is good to see you.

VOL. LI. p

That is my cousin ; I thought it my duty to
send for her when the matter became urgent,
as she is my only near relation  living 
though I should have much preferred going
through to the end with only Jane. I respect
Maria much, and love her too, but I never did
like her. She worries me, as she always did,
and I regret my lost independence. Am I nota
bad old woman to go on like this, when I
know the worry cannot be long or of the
smallest consequence ? '

Oh ! Miss Carslake ! '

It is a shock to you, dear ? I thought
you must see it, and I warned you that our
friendship must be short  for the present.
Do not look so sorry for me, I am not sorry
for myself. I have many dear friends, but
none whose life will be the worse for the loss
of me. I will not speak now of the best, of
the burning shame and utter joy of kissing
His Feet ; but think of the perfection of the
Best ! of the meetings there ! My store in

Paradise has indeed grown and become rich ;
I count them over sometimes, and think of
one and another that I had half forgotten,
and I think of those of other times that I hope

to see '

The struggling spark of Cordelia's faith
kindled and rose high at contact with her
saintly friend's strong, steady flame. She said
nothing ; the time-honoured expressions from
psalm and prayer and hymn, with which
Christians have comforted each other in the
ages all along, were still unfamiliar to her, and
she had no experience of her own to bring
words to her lips ; but she sat with clasped
hands and eager eyes, as she caught the reflection
of ' sweet rainbow tints at night,' and for
the moment forgot her own grief at the
parting, a new grief that was to be bittersweet
healing for the old ones. Miss Cars-lake
watched the glowing young face, and felt
that here she had the comprehension and
sympathy that she had long ago learned to

live without, yet found so rarely sweet when
they did come to her.

You look as if you would like to come
with me,' she said, presently.

With you, yes. I was thinking of what
it will be for you. I could go with you ; but
most of the people I love best are still living
and I am not ready yet. I am only beginning
to see the way.'

And the first thing you see is that the
way is not you, but He ! Your time is not yet;
but I shall look for you, Cordelia, and we will
have an eternal friendship. I am afraid you
have lost a friend, or at least a comrade, in
this poor Mr. Kingdon ? '

Oh, I have wanted to see you about him.
I have done wrong in every way about him.'

Surely you are not grieving too much for
him ! '

No, but there have been difficulties. I
came hoping to tell you all about it ; but it
has all passed away, I could not tell you now,

when you have better things to think of ;
besides, somehow I have pulled through.'

4 If need be, you shall tell your story to a
better counsellor than I. I wanted you to
come to share my good news. Mr. Odiarne is

coining-coming

! Not here ! Shall I see him ? '

4 Coming, and you will see him. You see,
Maria was a positive duty ; Philip is to be
my great luxury. He is coming after Easter,
in about eleven days. He says he needs a
quiet time, and will take it here, in preparation
for a great change in his life, of which he will
tell me.'

4 Is he going to be married ? ' asked Cordelia,
awe-struck.

4 It may be. I hardly think so. It is very
possible that I may not live eleven days. If I
do not, you, Cordelia, give him nry love and
blessing. Tell him that Olive has been my
life-long example, foremost to me of those
who follow in the Master's train. If he is to

be married, tell him that I know  not hope
know that his choice is worthy of him and
of Olive;

Mrs. Farquhar was heard in the next room,
and it was time, for Miss Carslake was more
exhausted than Cordelia knew of; but she held
her hand to say, with a shadow of her old
smile, ' Next week Maria will be often at
church, and you too, perhaps ; but will you
take her for some walks, between times ? '

Yes, long ones ; she shall be sleepy after
them.'

Cheer up, Cordie,' whispered her friend,
finding Mayne's spade-guinea at the girl's
watch-chain as she bent over her. Miss Cars-lake
knew about this guinea, guessed much
more than was told her, and when Cordelia
looked tragic and oppressed, would recal its
message to her, never without good result.

For the next week Cordelia had her hands
full, than which nothing could have been
better both for her shaken nerves and the

state of awed expectancy in which Miss Cars-lake's
approaching death kept her. She
shrank from counting the passing days, for it
seemed that Mr. Odiarne's coming must bethe
signal for Miss Carslake's going. Two or
three times she saw her friend, but only for a
few minutes, sitting beside her sofa silently,
and exchanging love and sympathy rather
than words. Mrs. Farquhar required some
persuasion that her onerous nursing duties
permitted her absence for the time required
to walk with Cordelia, though a sister of the
1 Bon Secours ' justified her title during the
very few hours that Jane required for rest ;
but at last the good lady gave in on the score
of her own health, and they took steady exercise
together, perfectly amicably, and with as
much understanding of each other as if one
had been a bird and the other a fish.

It was not quite so easy to deal with Captain
Lichfield as with Mrs. Farquhar, and Cor
delia felt that she owed him some reparation

for her awkward disclosures. He and Sophy
appeared rarely to speak to each other, though
the silence was mainly Duncan's choice. Some
perfunctory conversation was carried on in
Colonel Ashby's presence, to which Cordelia
contributed her best, incurring fewer snubs
than usual from her parent, which was his
form of gratitude, as good perhaps as another.
Duncan neglected his polyglot tracts, and
much modified his unexpected and untimely
prayers ; his concern for his neighbours' souls
was mainly expressed by groans, when the
presumably impenitent were mentioned; but
he looked so miserable that Cordelia, for one,
would have welcomed back his former embarrassing
ways. One morning she found him
sitting on a bench in the garden, drawing
patterns with his stick in the gravel, and
without even the consolation of a cigar. Fero
had found him poor company, and gone to
play at horses with two Swedish boys, a
minute but lordly Spaniard, and three iron

chairs, and no one else was with him ; for
though Les Citrons was a sociable hotel, Duncan's
habit of asking searching questions on
most private matters was deterrent to those
who only wanted to talk about the mistral and
their bodily complaints. There was no mistral
now, bringing beauty to the eyes and
misery to all the other senses, but a soft
sirocco blew from the south, relaxing over-tense
nerves and tempers, and covering the blue
sky with an almost welcome grey. ' C'est la
Semaine Sainte ; il y a toujours un temps
couvert,' explained the Mentonese to those of
the strangers who were too dull or too irreligious
to know this.

Cordelia sat down on the other end of the
bench, and cast about for a topic. The wind,
and even Fero, dropped flat. ' I have just
been to church '  she tried again.

4 Forms, dead forms ! They are dead
who trust in them ; dead in trespasses and
sins ! '

6 But we are trying to remember our sins,
and to repent and confess them ; that is not
being dead, is it ? '

Dead works ! You trust in works ! he
repeated, but with less than his usual vigour.

Do we ? You say that so often that one
forgets the words have any meaning ; but I
know one verse, " Purge your conscience from
dead works, to serve the living God." I think
we are trying to do that at church this week,
ready for Easter. Duncan, I do not wish to
be impertinent, but I do think it would be
better if you would do the same, instead of
sitting here in a misery about our sins.'

That any one, above all one of these lost
Ashbys, whom he hardly hoped to evangelise,
should speak to him  one of the saved  as
if he had need of repentance was a shock
indeed ; but a healthy person can bear a
shock, and he might be considered one.

Your sins ? What do you mean ? '

My sins, and Sophy's  my father's too,

very likely  I suppose it is of Sophy you are
thinking most ! '

1 Yes ; I can think of nothing else. It
is a poor thing for a man to complain of
his wife, and to her own people, but you
do not know what this is to me. I knew
that she was not. like-minded, and that I had
lately advanced to clearer light ; but I have
been looking to sharing it with her, and did
not dream that my own wife could be deaf
to the awakening words  not only deaf, but
sunk in iniquity, compassed with snares of the
devil, luring others to destruction, to the
very pit ! ' Duncan was working himself up.

You need not be so rough upon her ; we
do not know much about the pit.'

The fire goes burning on, and she will
not see it ! '

Sophy is tolerably plucky ; you will not
soon frighten her.'

Have I not declared to her the message
of Love, the free gospel? Since first I received

full assurance I have been framing
awakening words for her ; I have found others
moved by them while she is dry  and I am
dry also ! When she is in question I feel
that I have no unction, no power ; I cannot
so much as speak the precious words. I fear
I cling too much to this earthly affection.'

6 1 fear you do not cling enough, begging
your pardon, Duncan. She has been away
from you all this time, and knocking about
with  all these. You know it was not so
easy to keep her straight in India when you
were there to look after her; and you know
what my father is like, and that we were
here all last winter, and I suppose you know
something of Sophy too  what could you
expect ? '

Not that she should frequent a gambling-hell,
and do little better than keep one herself.'


For shame, Duncan ! How fond you are
of that word, you use it as often as swearing

Sir Charles, oftener than he before ladies !
I am not going to apologise for Monte Carlo,
I hate the place,' said Cordelia, with a break
in her voice ; ' but you are altogether too
much down upon Sophy  and who is to help
her if you do not ? She is not so bad but
that she might be a good deal worse ; and
she will be a good deal better, if you take her
in the right way.'

I have tried to show her the only right
way. Not even for her will I touch pitch.'

c Pitch ! There again ! Don't be so sure
she is altogether bad. Take her away from
my father and all this set, and give her a
pleasant life somewhere among plenty of nice
people  not dull goodies who will think her
atrocious, but really nice people who will
show her how beautiful it is to be good ; but
do it yourself, you good old Duncan  do not
preach to her, but give her a nice life, and
make love to her, I am sure you can do it
very nicely, much better than V or anyone

else ; and, please, don't use bad language
to her  " pits " and " pitch," and such things.'

1 Well, Cordie, you have given me something
to think about,' sighed Duncan, much
less lugubriously.

You have that darling Fero to help. I
must go to him ; he is pommelling the Spaniard
like a true Briton. What a tremendously
good fellow you are, Duncan, to take
all this wigging from me ! '

A JOURNEY Ende D.

You should have wept her yesterday

Wasting upon her bed :
But wherefore should you weep to-day

That she is dead ?
Lo, we who love weep not to-day,

But crown her royal head.

C. Rossetti.

At this time perhaps the most prosaic place
on the whole once poetical Eiviera is the
approach to the railway station at Mentone ;
it might be the dullest of English new suburbs,
but for the bright light of the southern
sun and a Eussian inscription on the back of
a neighbouring hotel ; and as for what is to
be heard, if a traveller landed here from a
balloon, he would be puzzled to decide what
country he was in, and France would be his
last guess. The peasants speak a patois in

which the intelligible words are Italian ; the
visitors are of every nation, English and German
being the most, and French the least
numerous ; the hotel people are Swiss from
the German-speaking cantons ; and many of
the shopkeepers are from Geneva.

Walking slowly up this station hill on
Wednesday afternoon in Easter week, with
Mrs. Farquhar, who had an errand at the
station, Cordelia suddenly saw Mayne Wastell
coming towards her, his eyes shining with
delight, and both his hands stretched out for
hers. Mr. Odiarne was with him, but Mayne
would have the first grasp, and somehow that
light of joy in his face prevented her from
seeing anything else, and it was through a
dazzle that she became aware of the Vicar,,
smiling down upon them benevolently, and
waiting patiently for his greeting; he was
most kind and cordial ; but it was Mayne who
rejoiced, and had found the end and object of
his journey to the south of France.

1 1 am glad we met you,' said Mr. Odiarne,
before Mayne had become coherent ; 'the
geography of the place is of some consequence
to us  half a hundred shining omnibuses want

to carry us to seventy-five hotels ; we cannot
oblige them all. and we want to be near Miss
Car-lake. Do you know how she is ? '

She has waited for you. but only just ;
she was very ill yesterday, but she is better
to-day. This is her cousin. Mrs. Farquhar.'

Mrs. Farquhar had a great deal to say to
Mr. Odiarne, and they walked on together.

 Cordie ! I know the pheasant-hat, but
I want to be told  is this our very own
Cordelia ? '

Indeed it is ! Why did you come, and
where is Lettice? '

I came to take care of Philip. The
parish decided that he must not travel alone,
and he would not give Merridew leave of
absence ; if he had I should still have come.
Lettice wanted to come, but it is too much

vol. II. Q

journey and too little stay for her. The
messages I have brought you from her and
the mother are stupendous ; I must see you
every day to deliver them.'

And Aunt Susan ? '

There is a wise-like woman for you ! I
called for her message on my way to the
station. It is only one ; she said, " Tell the
child I bid Goal bless her." '

Dear Aunt Susan ! What could she say
better ? '

It appears that you know this friend of
Philip's ; it was very clever of you to find her
out.'

Cordelia blushed at the recollection of
passages in her first acquaintance with Miss
Carslake, and of things that now seemed very
far off. She gave a loving description of her
friends that brought them to the point where
they must part. Mayne, who had been an
excellent courier so far, seemed now to lose
his perception of distance and of the points of

the compass, and only the Hotel des Citrons
met his views of a convenient situation ; but
Mrs. Farquhar took the matter in hand, and
decided them for the Hotel du Prince, where
she was with Miss Carslake  to Cordelia's
relief ; she thought half a mile not at all too
much to interpose between her friends and
her father.

That evening Colonel Ashby settled with
his son-in-law that in ten days' time they
would leave Mentone for Aix-les-Bains, a place
that suited the Colonel very well in the spring.
4 This will bring us to London about the
middle of May ; and then, I fear, our cosy little
family party must break up,' he said, with
polite regret. Duncan was now constantly
endeavouring to woo his wife out of the sulkiness
in which she had very judiciously taken
refuge, as it put her in the advantageous position
of injured party ; Duncan became interested
in the wooing, Sophy enjoyed being
wooed, and was by no means too easily won.
Q 2

Cordelia heard Duncan deferring every wish
of his to his wife's pleasure, and, while she
indulged the pleasures of hope on her own
account, wondered that Sophy was not more
accommodating.

What is Cordelia to do ? ' asked Mrs.
Lichfield, with unwonted consideration.

If she likes to pay a visit to her relations
at Maybury, such as appeared to give her
such extraordinary satisfaction last year, I
have no objection,' said the Colonel, generously.
'Do you think they will receive you,
Cordelia ? '

Cordelia bounded with joy. She had
hoped for this, but not to get it so easily.
The glimpse of two of her friends that day
had quickened the longing for her better life
as well as the feeling of desolation at the prospect
of losing sight of them again so soon, and
the dreariness of being always one too many
in her own family.

Oh, yes I They came to-days I know I

may go ! ' On which she had to explain that
it was her cousin Mrs. Wastell's stepson and
his cousin who had arrived to-day, whom she
claimed for relatives, and whom she sparkled
over in this fashion, thereby winning from
Duncan the heartiest laugh he had indulged
in since his return, a laugh that, by chasing
away for the moment his portentous look,
quite embellished the little man. Even the
Colonel smiled benevolently. ' I must make
the acquaintance of these gentlemen who
seem so kindly disposed to adopt us ; but as
you were Miss Hooper's guest last year it will
be more polite to write to her.'

Oh, yes ! Of course I must go to Aunt
Susan ; I belong to her ; I will write at once.'

Cordelia judged it best to take all this
happiness very early to bed, both for the
better enjoyment of it and to avoid the peril
of saying more foolish things. Before she undressed
she wrote to Aunt Susan. ' There ! I
shall not have to wait a week for an answer :

Mayne will give it to me tomorrow ; besides, I
know it already ! To think of seeing them all
again ! How sweet to find them all just the
same, only better, and to try to gain a step
forward, and to be more sensible myself! I
really think I can manage that last. I did not
feel a bit of a fool to-day, only so happy ! I
had better put in a little secret note for
Lettice to tell her that I mean to conduct
myself better, or perhaps she will think I ought
not to go. Fancy seeing Lettice again ! and
going to church at Maybury and the Uplands !
I could dance round Mr. Knox at this moment
if I had him handy in the corridor ! How
sorry I used to be for myself, and now I do not
know the woman I would change places with ! '

While she was thus jubilating, a little
knock fell on her door, and Sophy came in,
panting and pouting. ' You are not in bed ?
What a climb it is up here to your level ; why
have you come up so high ? '

4 Hush ! You will wake Fero ; he sleeps so

lightly. I will shut this door ; I keep it open
till Therese comes up.'

6 Cordie, I wish you would not settle all
at once to go to those people of yours ; they
can wait, and I want you to come with us.
Duncan will stay in London at first ; one can
always do something or other in London, you
mow, even if he will not allow balls or the
theatre ; and I must have some one with me,
or he will send for his cousins and his aunts
and all the grisly crew to keep me company 
just consider! After that we are to go to
Scotland and to Cumberland, and, if you are in
my charge, of course I must take you with me.
There will be tennis and so on, and very-likely
they will have some men if you are
there ; people like those will take trouble to
amuse a girl, but they always think being
married is amusement enough for a lifetime,
without any one to help. I really cannot go
alone with Duncan to those dreadful houses ;
I should die of it, simply, without a civilised

being to speak to, or to keep Duncan in
bounds ; and when we take a house for the
winter it will be worse. You must come,
Cordie, or I cannot face it.'

But  I have written ! ' stammered Cordelia,
glancing at her letter, and, this line of
defence being plainly untenable, she went on 
You used to want to get rid of me, anc
always found me in your way.'

A half-grown girl is a nuisance ; but novi
it is different, you have civilised a little, an(
Papa will not be there to be vexed by you ;\
besides, you understand Duncan.'

Understand him yourself, Sophy ! It is
not hard, for you have only to remember that
he is devoted to you, and as good as gold.'

6 Of course he is devoted to me ; but I
could do with much less goodness ; his is a
more inconvenient kind than yours, and he
fusses over things I have not been accustomed
to notice. I shall give up my little
gambles, as he does not like it, and one can

A JOURNEY Ended. 23

do without it away from here, where everyone
plays ; but Duncan is utterly incompatible
with any amusing society, and without Papa
to back me up things will be quite too
dismal ; I cannot answer for the consequences
unless you are with me.'

6 Does Duncan wish it ? ' asked Cordelia,
with her heart in her slippers.

'Yes. At least I shall tell him you are
coming. He will fidget after me much less if
you are with me.'

6 1 cannot tell you to-night. I must think
about it and make sure of what Duncan
wishes  it is impossible to find that out from
you, Sophy.'

That will be all right. Perhaps I shall
pull through if you help me ; just now I
thought I should not be able to stand it,' said
Sophy, with studied carelessness, as she left the
room.

Thus, after all, joyful excitement did not
keep Cordelia awake that night ; perplexity

might have clone so, but after a longing to
know what Miss Carslake would think, she
said to her pillow, ' I need not want to know,
I can guess, for this is straight enough. I
know which is the right way just as well as I
know which is the disagreeable one ; the only
question is whether I have grit enough to
follow it,' and she dropped asleep at that
point.

Next morning, being out early, Cordelia
met Duncan in the garden, returning from a
yet earlier stroll. The improvement in his
countenance was still visible ; Sophy had been
disagreeable last night, but yet a good honest
worry of his own did not seem to oppress him
so much as the concern for everybody's soul
had done when he was able to give it undivided
attention. He began  ' Cordelia,
Sophy says it will be much better for you to
be with us in the summer than visiting about
by yourself, and that she would enjoy your
society. What do you say ? '

That it shall be as you please, Duncan ;
as you yourself think best. If you arc sure
that you would like it, and that I shall not be
one too many, I will go with you and Sophy
for as long as you want me.' Cordelia spoke
steadily, though she felt the pinch. Until she
began to speak she had not felt quite sure of
herself, whether she could make this sacrifice.


1 You must consider your own spiritual
good ; I see signs of awakening that must not
be quenched, and would gladly have you near
me. Is the pure gospel preached among these
friends of yours ? '

That it is ! All the same, I think it will
be for my own spiritual good to go with you
said Cordelia, with asperity. She had chosen
the right way, but it was hard to her feet,
and inward satisfaction did not follow on her
choice with the swiftness that Duncan would
have predicted, had he known of her struggle.
i You will be heartily welcome to us both,

and I trust that your stay with us may be
blessed to you,' he said, kindly.

Up the steps from the road came at this
moment Mayne Wastell. To find Cordelia
quickly was what he wished, but hardly to
find her in close and affecting converse with a
young man, ' officer, gentleman, Indian, pious
party,' as Mayne's professional and other
instincts successively catalogued him. ' It is
only a quarte past eight, they begin in good
time here,' he added, as he reached the top
step. But Cordelia presented her brother-in-law
with pardonable pride in having so
respectable a relative, and then Mayne
gravely opened his errand. Miss Car slake
was to communicate that morning at nine
o'clock, and desired, if possible, Cordelia's
presence.

Oh, how sweet of her to think of me this
morning ! I will be ready in a minute ; do
not wait for me, Mayne, I would rather walk
alone.'

oi

All right ! ' said Mayne, understanding,
as Duncan did not.

Cordelia sped along under the budding
trees in the Easter sun, trying to set her
thoughts in order. They fell into place more
easily than usual, it might be from her recent
self-conquest, and perhaps from the truehearted
struggle she had made with her unruly
will and affections during the past week,
and the pure joy of Easter that had been
given her that year for the first time and in
full measure. Before the Hotel du Prince
she found Mr. Odiarne waiting for the
chaplain ; and, in the ten minutes before he
arrived, she had one of those conversations
with her teacher that, remembered, are to
the disciple among the stepping-stones of the
upward path, and to the pastor among the
rich rewards of his careful life. If he found
her quiet, modest, humble, and yet full of
youthful warmth and aspiring devotion, she
on her part was calmed, strengthened, and

encouraged by his wise words and his strong,
sweet influence, now perhaps most powerfully
felt because, false and undue excitement
having faded out, it could now have a true
effect upon her.

Not less strong was the gracious power of
her dying friend, who, though more plainly
passing away, had yet more life in her worn
face this morning than Cordelia had seen
there for many days. She gave Cordelia a
little sign of greeting as she passed to her
place between Mrs. Farquhar and Jane, to
which the girl responded by a bright look of
sympathy and of comprehension of her joy.
After the service, as Cordelia was silently
leaving the room, she beckoned her to her
side and looked at her, smiling, with the
bright expression of strength and joy that
had first attracted the lonely girl now shining
more and more as she neared the Perfect
Day. Then she whispered, ' You see the way
now, Cordie ? '

With the deepest joy she had ever felt in
her life Cordelia bowed her head in humblest
assent, though no word would come. Her
friend pressed her hand once more, and said,
1 Good-bye, dear, for the present ; I shall
see you again ! '

I shall see you again,' Cordelia responded
; and that promise was their leave-taking.


Mayne was waiting for her at the bottom
of the stairs. ' Cordie, I ate your breakfast
at the Hotel des Citrons with Captain and
Mrs. Lichfield, so now you must eat mine
here with Philip ; it is all ready, and there is
no one about'

He took her into the dining-room, where
the fragrance of coffee inside the pleasant
bow window met that of helix trope and roses
from without, Mr. Odiarne joined them, and
Mayne fussed over their breakfast, pouring
out the coffee, trying to cut thin bread and
butter with a blunt knife from rolls that had

no inside, and wanting to inquire for sugar-tongs
in spite of not knowing the French for
that useless article and the offer of Cordelia's
pink finger-tips as a substitute. Mr. Odiarne
talked ; he was calmer than the young people,
for his thoughts were further reaching. He
spoke of Miss Carslake, telling them that she
had been a remarkable woman, of great and
varied powers of mind and spirit, exercised
among many untoward family circumstances.
6 This calm and peace which has attracted
her later friends did not come to her as a
natural gift. She is a woman of strong character,
and also of strong will, and she has
had many a fierce struggle ; my heart has
often ached for her, but to-day I am glad,
and rejoice with her in her victory. It is not
to-day tli at we can weep for her ; you are
feeling that, Cordelia. Yet I shall miss her ;
all through her hardest conflicts there was
a power in her that enabled her to be a
most true and helpful friend to her friends.

I was one of them, and I owe her much ;
if for no other reason  and there are others,
good ones  I am glad to be of a little comfort
to her now, as she says I am. She had
a long and difficult engagement to a man who
seemed to be worthy of her ; perhaps he was
she said so. I do not know, people look
on these things so differently. He gave her
up on the first difficulties that arose on her
side; a threatening of ill health was one.
She had then held to him through more
worse than better, sacrificing herself and aiding
his life-work very materially during many
years ; but he could not be patient under
the first trial of sickness rather than health,
She has lived twenty years since then, and I
cannot help thinking that a little happiness
might have made all the difference to her. I
know that with Harriet, even in bad health,
as his wife these twenty years, he would have
been a better, happier, and more successful
man than he has been without her.'

VOL. II. R

1 A man is justly held a brute if he does
not hold to his engagement " for better for
worse, for richer for poorer ; " and you think
it should be " in sickness and in health " as
well?' said Mayne, looking ready for any
sacrifice.

Not at all, by no means ! ' answered Mr.
Odiarne, hastily. ' The last clause has quite
different bearings from the other two, before
marriage ; this was quite an exceptional case,
and I never was under promise of marriage,
so know nothing about it. Come, young
people, after-wisdom is of very little use.
What do you say to a walk ? Cordelia, you
are lent to us for the morning, I hope ? '

Yes ; I am very easily borrowed. It
would be very nice to take you up that hill
opposite.'

CHAPTER XXIX.

FIRMER FOOTSTEPS.

Yet onward lies the third stage : purged and pure
Hath grown the stately spirit here, hath risen
To love all perfect things in perfect peace.

Edwin Arnold.

In spite of her disappointment about going to
Maybury, in spite of Miss Carslake's state,
well-springs of joy bubbled up in Cordelia's
heart ; a deep peace and sense of best achievement
were the hidden sources of this, and all
the rest was shining hope, sweet and undefined,
It was a pure delight to lead her two friends
in the fair, familiar ways that were fair and
strange to them ; to point out, to explain, to
see with their eyes, and gather new joy from
theirs. It was the crowning time of a very
lovely spring ; the sea was softly and graciously
ras

well as deeply blue ; not a single metallic
hue told, as sometimes, of cold winds outside
the mountain shelter. Poetic Cordillera
smiled brightly from the most distant point,
and Ventimiglia. half-way, presented masses
of warm light, telling that here began Italy
indeed, and without a frown to hint that here
was a frontier fortress. The abundant olives
that clothe the hills and fill the valleys change
little with the changing seasons, yet they
have a spring softness and fulness of their
own to reveal to loving eyes that understand
their restfulness and know better than to call
them monotonous. The leaves of the lemons
are brighter, and those of the oranges darker,
because it is spring ; breaths of strange sweetness
come from both, as little vagrant airs
pass through them and follow the travellers
as they mount the hill. As the last possible
and finest imaginable touch of beauty, poetry,
and delicate grace, the peach blossom gives
here and there light touches of pure pink, a

colour beyond and apart from all comparison,
a very standard of itself.

Rose is the colour of love and of youth.

Mayne began by being in wild spirits, and
more like Tim and Toby Somers than his sober
self; but Cordelia led them upwards from the
road and the gardens on to a great calm hillside,
and when they began to look on all this
beauty as a whole, it quickly had its true effect
on his deep and tender nature. Indeed, Mayne
was the first to feel it as he stepped before
the others to a turn of the path that brought
the whole view before him ; and they, following,
saw the beauty reflected in his countenance,
as, taking off his hat, he turned his
comely face from the sea to the shore, from
the valleys to the hills.

1 He is like you ! I never saw it before ! '
said Cordelia, softly, as one who makes a joyful
discovery, to the Vicar, who did not heed.
They stood at gaze a few moments, Cordelia

broke the silence, saying, ' How one always
looks to the sea, whatever else there may be !
The sea seems to promise everything.'

Philip Odiarne was looking up to the
sloping buttresses of the hills far away, and to
the rough heights that rose above them. ' The
mountains attract me more, I think ; I always
turn to them. " Levavi oculis mens "  what
do you say, Mayne ? '

When I can see both, and much more
beside, then my joy is full,' answered Mayne,
looking at neither, but at the face of his
friend. Mr. Odiarne put his hand on the
young man's shoulder, with a look that was
like a benediction  ' Give thee thy heart's
desire, and fulfil all thy mind,' he said, softly.
His own strength had been gained in renunciation
of all that makes this life most glad and
complete, bat not the less earnestly did he
desire for his friend all that young love and
fair prospects can give.

Soon they came to a place where two

ways meet. A little chapel is set there, with
its altar to the seaward ; they sat down
and watched the peasants pause under their
burdens, and cross then 1 selves with an instant
of recollection as they passed.

Duncan would be out upon them with
expostulation they barely understand, and
French tracts which they often cannot read
remarked Cordelia.

That must prevent him from doing much
harm, 1 said Mayne.

i They usually take him for a Socialist.'

 What a pity not to reserve his zeal for
the heathen ! next year I shall be in a position
to pick out a little work for him,' said Mr.
Odiarne. ' What ijood faces there are amon
these people ! I have noticed many that look
noble and self-respecting.'

Yes, those are the true Mentonese ; they
are proud and reserved, but they are good
and honest ; the way they trust the English is
quite touching  it is because they are used to

trust each other. For the most part they are
very religious, and might well ask after our
souls. The young people know French now,
which opens to them all the unbelief and bad
things in the French papers. There are
Sunday schools held in the churches, but they
sadly want Lettice in them to keep order,'
said Cordelia, ' I heard an old Cure one day
teaching rows and rows of little brown fidgets.
Mortifies-nous, mes enfants ! " he said, in
his fat voice.'

Yes, now that the course of the world
begins to take away their simplicity, both
childlike and childish, they ought to be shown
the sense and reason of their religion. We
try to do that in the English Church, and with
the best results so far as we succeed ; it is the
pity of it that the Woman Church is afraid todo
the same,' said Mr. Odiarne.

'Where does this road to the left lead to? '
asked Mayne.

{ To Eoccabruna. A little further you look

into the next bay and over the mountain road
to Nice ; you see Monaco and Monte Carlo
down below ; it is thought very fine, but the
Casino spoils every view it comes into  I cannot
look at it to-day,' said Cordelia.

You go, Mayne ; when you have worked
off your spare energy you will find us here ; but
we limit you to half an hour,' said Mr. Odiarne.

Cordelia thought this would be an opportunity
for telling some of her late troubles, and
of getting a little store of counsel and comfort
for the future, but she found directly that all
inclination to talk of herself had vanished. She
spoke a little of Miss Carslake, and then of
Maybury, saying she had hoped to spend the
summer there, but her sister wanted her.'

Of course you must take the nearest
duties first ; but I am sorry you are not able
to be with Aunt Susan this coming summer ;
you give her a fresh interest, and I who love
her well am grieving her much. I had no idea
she would be so troubled ; the parish is howling

 a little for politeness' sake, I am bound to
believe  but yet rejoicing in my honour and
giving me a great deal of sympathy. The
Wastels are encouraging and enthusiastic ; but

CO '

dear Aunt Susan takes it to heart.'

What can you be going to do ? ' asked
Cordelia, with a look as if what he did must
needs be right.

Do you not know ? You see before you
the Bishop-designate of Assiniboine.'

Cordelia fairly gasped, and the colour flew
up to her face. A bishop ! Was this the

man she had presumed to think ? She

had much ado not to laugh ; then, as she
realised all that was meant, she said faintly,,
Assiniboine, that is ? '

North America, beyond Manitoba, one
of the new districts for emigration ; quite a
fashionable place to go to and to talk about,
but more than a little stern and wild in reality,
though not in the least a place for a poetic
child,' he said, smiling at her bewilderment.

And you must go  go away ! '

4 Even so  to Assiniboine, if it can be sufficiently
localised for us to know, within a few
hundred miles, when we have arrived.'

Then, as she still gazed at him and two
tears slowly fell, * Why, Cordelia, you are as
bad as Aunt Susan ; will you not wish me
Godspeed ? '

8 Oh, yes ! Indeed I do ! ' she said, wringing
the hand he held out to her and recovering
herself by a great effort. ' Does Miss Carslake
know ? '

I told her last night, when we said much
in a short time on things old and new. This
morning she gave me a cheque for the money
she could thus dispose of, above 400/., for
work at Assiniboine. A small legacy that she
has left me we have agreed is to be given for
the same purpose, as a memorial of her cousin ;
it is to be the first church I see the fit place
for. Her sympathy is very much to me ; I
value all that I get, but hers has a special

meaning for me. The good people at May-bury
are going to make themselves into a
society especially to help my poor, struggling,
unromantic diocese. Lettice is to be secretary
for the ladies' branch, which you will join, I
hope. Then Merridew is to follow me ; but,
as he cannot go out till the spring, this good
Mayne is going with me, and will help me
through the first winter. An active young
layman will be a great thing for the mission,
and think how he will speak at your meetings
when he goes back ! '

Cordelia did not find very much to say,
and was glad when Mayne came back.

I have been telling Cordelia of my approaching
honour ; she did not know whether
to laugh or to cry, and so did both a little,'
said Mr. Odiarne.

Cheer up, Cordie ! ' said Mayne, pretending
that she needed help down the steep path
they were now descending. i All the old
women at Maybury are weeping painful ;

Lettice had a hearty cry over the loss of her
Vicar, which did not prevent her insulting her
cousin by doubting the fitness of his long legs
for episcopal gaiters

Before they parted, Cordelia said seriously.
I am so glad I did not know this when I
decided to trail about, a bad third, with the
Lichfield instead of going to dear Maybury.
I shall not mind quite so much now.'

Both men laughed, and Mayne said, ' I will
not claim any part of that compliment, Cordie ;
but you have not been a bad third to-day, and
I shall come to your hotel to-night to make
sure of a walk tomorrow.'

Two more days Miss Carslake lingered,
comforted and sustained by her friend, and
then passed away in the first glow of Sunday
morning. Cordelia had news of her early
and late from Mayne, but she did not see her
again. On Sunday she felt anxious, and
going to the early service with time to spare
walked past the church and met Mr. Odiarne

on his way thither, Mayne having already
gone in, meaning to tell her later.

L She has gone ! Never was a going less
to be wept ; we can only thank God for her,
Cordelia.'

I do, I do,' she said, though tears must
come. 'And then, she is with Sister Olive
even now ! '

God forgive me if I envy her that meeting
! But, child, she meets her Lord, that is
the first and greatest meeting for all His servants.
Come in, let us ask that we, with
them, may altogether be set on His right hand
and hear His most joyful voice.'

A few bright and peaceful days followed.
Mayne and Cordelia always looked back on
them with most tender remembrance. They
spent them very much together, for Mr.
Odiarne took the rest and solitude that he
greatly needed, and had in part come to find ;
but these two went together to find flowers,
and together to take them to the cemetery,

where Cordelia would by no means forget
another new grave, of which she told Mayne
some part of the history. He hid from her
that here he did not feel very sympathetic.
Was that the fellow who used to call you
Corks " ? ' he asked.

1 Oh, did you know that ! ' she said, in
distress.

6 Jock Somers told me. You do not mind
my knowing, Cordie ? '

'Xot so very much, now. I am glad I
did not know then that you knew.'

By the force of his love Mayne had long
since got himself over the obstacle presented
to its smooth running by Colonel Ashby's
character. He had promised himself and Aunt
Susan that he would not declare himself until
his return from America, yet he felt at liberty
to pursue his wooing in every way but in
words. Cordelia was a delightful person to
be in love with, more so now even than last
year, for she had not lost too much of her

piquancy, and she was so sweet, gracious,
and friendly ! Though quite simple and unconscious,
she felt the security and happiness
of being loved, and she brightened, softened,
and embellished in the sweet confidence of
that beautifying atmosphere. In the troubles 1
she had had her religious life had been
tested and established ; she knew now where
her help stood, and she rejoiced in present
comfort with a more tender grace than she
had ever shown before. As the parting approached,
and each passing day made her
more and more dear, her lover found it hard
to restrain the loving words of which his
heart was full, and Mr. Ocliarne found it
needful to keep guard over him ; he being
very much of Aunt Susan's opinion that an
engagement should not be entered into that
year, and that it would be much easier to
treat with Colonel Ashby when his daughter
was not under his immediate care.

Colonel Ashby was magnificently civil to

Cordelia's friends. Mr. Odiarne was rather
taller than he, and had equally fine manners,
with an advantage in the important
point of simplicity ; besides, a Bishop-designate,
even of a colonial see, is a person of
some importance, and it would show great
want of savuir-rii're to snub him like a
common parson. Fortunately it was also a
matter of savoir-vivre to let Mayne and Cordelia
take their own course, as it was shaping
itself in accordance with his views.
Mayne comforted himself with thinking that
if Lichfield, who seemed such a good little
fellow, though certainly rummy, to use Cordelia's
word, could bear Colonel Ashby as
his father-in-law with no greater sign of
suffering than a few groans, and could also
put up with the fair Sophy as his wife, he,
Mayne, might manage to pull through, with
a good distance between them, and Cordelia
as the reward of heroism.

So the days drew on to the last one ; the

VOL. II. s

cousins were to start at night for Genoa,
Colonel Ashby and his party, four days later,
for Aix-les-Bains. The morning was spent in
an excursion to Gorbio. Cordelia, her-two
friends, and Captain Lichfield on foot ; Fero
and the luncheon on a donkey, conducted by
Marie, the prettiest of the donkey-girls and a
great friend of Mademoiselle's. Mrs. Lichfield
and Mrs. Farquhar had been asked to
join the party, but each had declined, and the
others had the air of meritorious content
proper to those who have performed painful
duties at small cost. The spring flowers were
over, but the gardens were full of roses ; the
fragrant banksias, white or buff, the fairies of
the roses, surmounted the walls in great
heaps or hung down in long tempting wreaths
just out of reach. Cordelia, by arts unknown,
captured a spray of the white ones, and divided
it between Mayne and Duncan. Mr. Odiarne
liked the olive better than all the trees of the
field ; and Cordelia, who had noticed this,

l mildly offered him a little branch. ' Pax
tecum,' he said gently, for thanks, and
presently hid the spray in the breast of his
coat. Cordelia knew that it would go to
America, and not as her gift. Fero thought
he too liked roses, and Duncan gave the boy
his ; but Mayne guarded his white cluster
jealously, and lingered behind with Cordelia to
show her that he did so.

Mayne, will you do a thing for me ? '
What do you think ? ' with a look.

 See, I have some money '

4 All those dirty notes ! Put them away,
or some one will be robbing or marrying you
for very filthy lucre's sake.'

Will you take them, and when you get to
Assiniboine give the money to him   ' indicating
the long black figure mounting the
hill before them. ' I dare not offer it to him for
this work, because it is  bad. I won it once
at Monte Carlo.'
< You, Cordie ! '

a 2

4 Not just those notes ; but last year, once
in a wicked passion, I won nearly as much as
that. Mr. Odiarne knows about it. I have
saved the money, but it is not fit for the church
he hopes to build. You take it and use it for
some common thing you see is wanted. You
can tell him then that it is my debt.'

Very well. Then I can write to tell you
how it is used.'

Duncan, who did not as a rule like clergymen,
they being apt to question both the
quantity and quality of the doctrine he so
industriously preached, accepted Mr. Diane
from the first, and not only forbore to
instruct him, but actually accepted from him
some kindly advice about his own erratic
methods of benefiting his fellow creatures.
Cordelia remarked that Duncan toned himself
down a good deal after that walk to Gorbio.

4 Lichfield is a brave man, but not quite
up to asking the Vicar after his soul. Perhaps
he has the sense to see it, sitting in his

eyes, in a remarkably satisfactory state, as
souls go,' said Mayne.

4 Duncan is not very quick at seeing things,
but Mr. Odiarne's face would impress a post,'
replied Cordelia. * Even Sophy feels it. She
hates parsons, but she says Mr. Odiarne
fetches her ; and she is glad he is going away,
one day more and she should give in.'

Ha, ha ! The best testimonial Philip has
had yet. Her husband might not care to have
her converted to a pattern of goodness so
very unlike his own ; people like him prefer a
good round heathen to anything they could
call a ritualist. But, Cordie, no one seems to
consider you ! '

Oh, yes ! plenty of people ! I am not
used to much consideration, and you never
forget me, Mayne,' said Cordelia, cheerfully
and unwarily.

Mayne looked at her as he had done when
he met her at the station, so that she felt very
shy, which was uncomfortable, because she

was not used to it, but not at all disagreeable
under the circumstances.

Not for an hour shall I forget you all the
time I am away, and the further off I am the
more I shall think of you. But I am going to
give you a direction  in Aunt Susan's name, if
you will not take it from me. If you find it
is bad for you with your sister, if she wants to
take you into shady company, or make you a
party to things you do not approve, you are
to go straight to Aunt Susan or to my mother
and Lettice. I do not say anything about
things being disagreeable, you are not the
girl to mind that if you can keep straight
ahead through them ; but it is not your duty
to keep anybody else straight, nor to be
dragged into any sort of mire. Will you
mind my orders, Cordie ? '

To hear is to obey ! ' she said, with a very
unsteady smile.

The parting took place, unromantically,
before the Hotel du Prince, waiting for the

omnibus, for Cordelia had walked a long way,
and Mr. Odiarne would not let Mayne risk
his packing or his self-possession by going all
the way back with her. For himself, when
Cordelia suddenly realised that this was her
last sight of him she found no words at all,
but he understood, and whispered a blessing
for his farewell. Then, as the car clattered upto
them, he put his hand on Mayne's shoulder,
and said, ' Do not be afraid, Cordelia ; he is only
a loan, I will send him honestly back again.'

Mr. Odiarne kept his word. It came to
pass that the Lichfield returned to India in
the autumn, so that Cordelia spent the winter
with Aunt Susan, an evening light to the good
old lady's eyes. She was equally welcome at
the Warren, where her cousins found life
rather flat in Mayne's absence. One day in
the spring Cordelia went into the drawing-room
at the Warren, fresh from her walk up
the hill, wearing the pheasant-hat, and with

her hands full of primroses. Before the lire
stood Mayne Wastell, who had arrived from
Assiniboine a quarter of an hour ago and
found no one just then at home. There was
no need of words between those two, and
none were spoken clearly enough to be placed
on record. When Lettice came in presently, ina
rush of excitement, for she had met a seafaring
portmanteau in the hall, she found the
pheasant-hat on an arm-chair, and all the
primroses scattered on the hearthrug.

A new Yicar came to Maybury, a very
good one, who pleased everybody, and worked
the parish into its uttermost corners, so that
he was a cause of rejoicing to all right-minded
persons ; yet old Miss Hooper and young Mrs.
Wastell ceased not to maintain to all comers
in general, and very especially to each other,
that there never had been and never could bea
Vicar to compare with Philip Odiarne.

THE EM).

Spottisvcoode & Co., Printers, New-street Square, London.

1R

MM

3 0112 045857437

I

I



BHb v

1 SMlV a

I

II il '

a J

9 >] i

MH
