CONTENTS

CHAPTEK I. PAGE

THE NEW TENANTS . . . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

f THEIR FIRST APPEARANCE



 CHAPTER III.

 " SPENCER-omnia " . . . . . 4G

J CHAPTER IV.

J MAKING ACQUAINTANCE . . . . C8

 CHAPTER V.

A FISHING EXCURSION . . . . 107

CHAPTEK VI. PAGE

A GLIMPSE OF THE SKELETON . . . 1S2

CHAPTER VII.

TWO ARE COMPANY . . . . 156

CHAPTER VIII.
SHE SATS "no!" 182

CHAPTER IX.

MIRL\M IN TROUBLE . . . . . 209

CHAPTER X.

AFTER A STORM . . . 240

THE NEW TENANTS.

WHO are the people at the Manor House ?
Where have they come from ? and
why have they come to Cornwall ? These
questions greatly agitated the good folk of
Penally ; the wondering meandered along
the coast, and swept in tiny waves of
curiosity into the rugged huts of the fishermen,
and over the hills to the solitary dwellings,
few and far between, that studded the
wildest part of that most lovely, lonely, and
picturesque part of Cornwall. The wondering
was confined to no particular class

VOL. I. 2

or sex ; everybody wondered  rich and poor,
high and low  the clergyman, the doctor,
the lawyer, the undertaker ; even the sexton
and grave digger leaned upon his spade and
wondered if they would find him any work
to do. Yet there was really no special
cause for wonderment ; there was nothing
remarkable in the mere fact of tenants
being found to occupy a fine old house in
the most romantic part of the country.

The Manor House had been vacant many
years ; it was an old-fashioned, rambling
sort of place, and had been in possession of
the same family for centuries. Generation
after generation had been born and lived
and died there  then changes came. The
old order of things gave place to the new,
and as years rolled on the rising generation
could not rest content with the lives of their
forefathers ; they grew tired of its solitudes,
they did not care to Ive among the bones

and memories of their ancestors, and one
after another they drifted away, leaving the
old house in the hands of the house-agent,
and for some two or three years it had been
the home of the bats and owls of the district.
It is true that visitors to Penzance, or
tourists in the far away neighbourhood, would
stop on their way to the Land's End and
picnic in the surrounding wilderness ; they
would stroll through the weedy garden,
pummel the doors, and send the echoes
rumbling through the deserted house, climb
up and try to peep through the shuttered
windows ; but before the day closed it was
left to its own solitude. Occasionally people
came to inspect the premises, but it seemed
as though nobody would ever care to live
there  it was too isolated, they said, too
utterly apart from the rest of the world ;
though, indeed, it was only about two miles
from the village, but those miles were

through such rough, rugged roads, as to
seem double the distance.

One bright morning news came to the
village, and filtered through the neighbourhood,
that the house was undergoing a sort
of renovating process. Mr. Banks and a
whole army of workmen were busily engaged
there  their vans were seen crawling slowly
through the highways and by-ways towards
the house. Mr. Banks was besieged with
questions, and curiosity was rife everywhere.
No avait-courrier had brought accounts of
the new-comers  they might have dropped
down from heaven, or risen up out of the
sea, for aught anybody knew about them.
Mr. Banks could tell nothing  he knew
nothing. He had received his instructions
from the banking firm in London under
whose orders he had always acted; he did
not even know the name of the new tenants.

* But we shall soon find out all about

'em," he added; "they're coming down to
take possession next Thursday*'

The nearest railway station  a mere shed
of a place  was about five miles distant ;
the trains were few and far between, and
even then they often arrived without disgorging
or receiving a single passenger.
The solitary porter as a rule had nothing
to do, and as for the individual called
station-master," his place was almost a
sinecure. They might, and no doubt .they
did, sleep half their lives away in that
drowsy little station ; but on this special
Thursday morning they were wide awake
and on the alert. They knew that something
was going to happen, for telegraphic
orders had been received that a fly should
be in waiting for the midday train. Accordingly,
the ramshackle vehicle was there an
hour before its time, the lean grey horse
solemnly swishing its tail, carrying on perpetual

warfare with the hungry flies who
tried to make a meal off its mangy coat,
while the driver lounged across and joined
the expectant watchers on the platform,
regaling them with such scraps of news as
drifted through the stable yard. Presently
the little train came curling round a gentle
curve in the line, pulling and snorting softly
as it rolled up to the platform. There
was an unusually long stop ; engine-driver,
stoker, and all looked round in some surprise
to see what a large party was emptying
itself upon the platform. They surged out
of the compartments, laden with every
kind of small baggage. The
servants descended first ; there were
eight in all, counting male and female
domestics ; but to the trio standing by, it
seemed as though a small army had taken
possession of the platform. The guard
released two large dogs fi'om their imprisonment

in the brake-van, and with their red
tongues lolling out they ran barking and
leaping along the platform. Hans, the
groom, just managed to get them into a
leash, but they strained and struggled to
get free as they caught sight of their young
mistress descending from a coupe in front of
the train. She laid a hand softly on each
great honest head.

* Quiet, Jerry ! Bouncer, good dog ! "
Her touch and the sound of her voice
reduced them at once to quiet and obedience
; their noisy excitement subsided
into a quiet wagging of tails, and with their
faithful eyes fixed upon her face they
watched and waited. The lady was
followed by a tall, gaunt old man, a large
bony figure, with a slight stoop in the
shoulders and a mass of snow-white hair ;
he was clean shaven, and a pair of brilliant
dark eyes gleamed from beneath the thick

bushy brows. He glanced round with a
keen, searching look, which seemed to take
in everything at a single glance. He gave
his arm to the young lady, and preceded by
Chaplin, the station-master, they walked
down the platform. Meanwhile the driver
rushed to his vehicle, and began pummelling
the cushions and bustling about the harness,
now at the horse's head, then at the
horse's tail, whistling, cracking his whip,
and rushing round as though he were ina
tremendous hurry, had all the world's
work to do, and no time to do it in.

The servants were busy getting together
the luggage ; the solitary porter rushed
wildly hither and thither, bewildered by
the unusual array of boxes, hampers, etc.
He felt as though he had been stooped
upon by a regiment of unknown tongues.
The new arrivals talked to one another in
some foreign language, and when they

spoke to him it was in such broken, queerly
accentuated English he could not understand
a word they said. However, he
shouldered such trunks as he could lay
hands on, and packed the truck, piling one
thing on the top of the other, sublimely
indifferent to the clatter of voices round
him, each one shrieking out directions at
the same moment. Luckily he did not
understand a word of them, and pitched
the last box into the truck with a spiteful
jerk, and a growl like muttered thunder
came from between his lips.

** What's them surrendering folk coming'
here for, I wonder ? Don't think much
of 'em. Look here ! that grinning monkey
in the gray jacket give me this, after
breaking my back hauling their beastly
luggage about ; if I'd known, I'd ha' busted
some of it ! " He opened his hand and
showed a battered sixpence.

'' Ah ! " exclaimed Mr. Chaplin, '' that's
trusting your liberality to servants. Never
mind, Ben, you shall go halves with me ;
the old gentleman slipped half a sovereign
into my hand for just opening my mouth
and wishing him good morning. And
they are not all foreigners, for the young
lady, and a pretty creature she is too,
thanked me in regular good English when I
put her into the fly."

** That's always the way," grumbled Ben,
though slightly mollified by the prospect of
going halves. "Them as does the most
work gets the least pay ; it is always the
way, from the Prince of Wales downwards ;
didn't I help to win the battle of 'Tel
Kebber,' and what have I got for it? A
ruined liver and a smashed-up constitution
that's what I've got ! "

I suppose that 'eben" had a surname, but
nobody knew it, perhaps he did not know

it himself ; he was recognized by the simple
name of *' Ben," and any extension of that
brief cognomen would have embarrassed
him, indeed he would have resented it as
an insult. A stranger, once wishing to
propitiate him in behalf of a young bull-pup,
addressed him respectfully as * Mr.
I didn't quite catch your name."

No, nor you won't never catch it," he
snarled in answer. 'I'm eben,' that's
what I am. It's as good a name as I know
on, and I don't want a better ; so as I look
after that ill-looking brute o' your's, you
needn't bother about names."

He was evidently tetchy on the subject ;
perhaps his name didn't fit him, and he had
cast it off like a suit of old clothes, or
perhaps it had got stained  not with blood
at the battle of '' Tel Kebber " that he was
always talking about  but with something
else, and he had trampled it in the mire

and left it behind him. He was not a
native of Cornwall ; soon after the campaign
that ' ruined his liver " had ended,
he obtained the situation as porter at that
lonely little station, and there he had
remained ever since. Nobody knew anything
of his antecedents, and he never
talked of himself except in reference to
Tel Kebber," and then only in brief
allusions.

He was a man who minded his own
business  and other peoples too ; he took
an eager interest in Penally, and everybody
for miles round it. Like most people who
are always looking for 'news " and prying
into other people's affairs, he was remarkably
reticent about his own, and though he
never talked of himself, he talked freely of
every one else, and knew all the *' ins and
outs " of life for miles round. He was
deeply interested in the new occupants of

the old mansion, but hitherto his inquisitorial
powers had been used in vain. He
turned the battered sixpence over and over
in his hand, and it set him thinking as if it
had been a magic mirror, or talisman, which
acted as a kind of touchstone and revealed
the nature of those it came from ; the
less he knew the more he evolved from his
imagination. When the luggage vans had
arrived by train, he had crept about and
around examining the furniture, peering
into everything he could lay hands upon,
but white marbles and carved oak were
alike dumb  they told him nothing; he
could gather no information therefrom ;
there was not even a label to tell whence
they had come. In vain he twisted and
wriggled about, spying into everything;
curiosity was baffled at all points. Then he
grew furious and resentful, and lashed
himself into a belief that he was the

injured party, and that he and others
were kept in the dark from malevolent
motives.

*what did they mean by hiding themselves
in mystery and leaving the natural
curiosity of honest folk unsatisfied ? "

How anxiously he had looked forward to
their coming to-day ! Now they had come
and gone, and left nothing to tell even of
their existence  but  a battered sixpence !
Well, Ben lounged off to a shady corner to
drone and dream away the hours till the
next train was due, while the unconscious
objects of his curiosity wound their way
slowly towards their home that was to be.
The servants in the waggonette drove on
first, and drove at a rapid pace, as though
they were anxious to get the first glimpse
of the new domicile. Their keen eyes
seemed to take in every feature of the land
they were passing through, laughing and

chatting merrily, though in a language
unknown to the driver, who inwardly
cursed their " jabbering" as he called it,
for he could not understand a word they
said, and a driver naturally looks for a little
pleasant gossip by the way, and considers
himself rather ill-used if he doesn't get it.
However, he took it out of the beasts he
was driving, and lashed them on at a lively
pace, till he deposited his merry freight at
their destination.

Meanwhile the carriage containing the
old gentleman and the young lady wound
its way slowly through the grand old Cornish
country ; they looked out with evident pleasure
and enjoyment on the beautiful scenery
they were passing through. Now and again
they got a magnificent view of the sea, and
wherever they looked, whether landward or
seaward, they found some beautiful, attractive
feature; so varied too, it seemed as

though nature was indulging in a series of
transformation scenes ; now it was grand in
the extreme, huge rocky boulders, covered
with moss or lichen, scattered around or
grouped at the foot of weird old trees that
had scarce green enough to cover their poor
palsied branches  then in another few moments
they were driving through a fairy dell,
the soft, undulating land carpeted with
tender green, and decorated with brilliant
wild flowers and graceful ferns feathering
the roadside ; only once or twice they passed
a rude farmhouse, and the folk flashed out
to see the unusual sight of life passing
through their neighbourhood.

The girl sat with her hand in that of the
old man, who regarded her with loving,
anxious eyes. Jerry and Bouncer trotted
demurely by the carriage side, now and then
leaping up to look in at the window to
assure themselves that all was right within.

The occupants talked little, contenting
themselves with occasionally calling attention
to some point of the scenery. They
had just passed through a very wild, desolate
way, when the coachman, pointing
ahead, said 

Yon's the Manor House, sir."
Looking forward, they beheld the old
grey mansion in full view. Standing there
alone, as it seemed, in a very wilderness, it
looked a dreary, gruesome place enough ; it
was a low, square building, with no attempt
at architectural ornament of any kind ; with
no quaint gables or picturesque columns or
cupolas, or odd nooks and corners to attract
or distract the eye. It stood there solitary,
blank, and square, facing seawards, its
strong stony sides bared to all the winds
that blew. It was surrounded by a ragged
unkempt garden, bounded by a low stonewall,
separating the private grounds from

VOL. I. 3

the wilds beyond. Although it had no
fanciful features, it was a solemn, impressive
place ; its very simplicity and its age and
isolation gave it a weird kind of charm.

*' I did not think the place was quite such
a solitude," said the old man, taking in the
entire view at one sweeping glance. ' I'm
afraid you'll he very lonely here, Chalice."

** Not at all," answered Clarice, ' we two
shall be together, dad dear, always together
and at least I am safe here with you.
You don't think he will find us and try to
take me away? "

* I would rather kill you with my own
hands than let him have you," said the old
man, grimly; ' I would, my child, I would."

The girl smiled and seemed content.

The carriage drove through the Manor
House gates and stopped at the massive
oak door, which was flung wide open, and
the hall within was filled with the servants

who had assembled there to welcome their
young mistress to her new home. She was
a great favourite with them all, from the
highest to the lowest, for she had always a
kind word and a pleasant smile for everybody.
She paused before entering the
house, and turned round upon the threshold
to admire the magnificent view that spread
before and around her. It was a magnificent
blending together of sea and land, the coastline
being clearly defined by the rugged, undulating
sweep of the land. There were
wide stretches of open country, wild and
uncultivated; rough, rocky land, with
tangles of grass and tall strong trees
growing out of its stony heart ; here and
there were pretty villages or farmhouses,
surrounded by soft, green meadows and
fields of clover and orchards, their pink and
white blossoms blooming out in the sunlit
air.

Clarice stood shading her eyes from
the sun's glare; and with glowing cheeks
and lips half parted, drawing in the fresh
sea breeze, and regarding the scene with
evident satisfaction, she said 

IC

How can we ever be dull, with such a

scene as this always before us ? Why, it is
full of life, dad dear  a real, pure life, better
than the brawling world's life we have left
behind us."

The old man patted her hand softly, evidently
well pleased at her contentment.
Bouncer stood by her side wagging his tail
slowly, occasionally giving a yelp of satisfaction,
as though he shared her enjoyment
and thoroughly understood her feelings.
Jerry, who was altogether a dog of more
commonplace character, had gone off on a
foraging expedition, and to take a glimpse of
the new premises on his own account.

The picture of age and youth as they

stood together in front of the old grey
mansion was a pleasant one. The old man,
Mr. Fleming  we may as well introduce
him personally at once  was a notable
looking man ; tall, thin, with a slight stoop
in the shoulders, such as is apt to bow the
figure of a man when he is over sixty, with
a pale complexion, thick wavy snow-white
hair, and dark eyes gleaming from beneath
grizzled browns ; the natural expression
of the face was full of benevolence
and kindliness, but circumstances somehow
seemed to have writ his life awry,"
and turned the current of his feeling
and the course of his actions into a more
narrow and bitter channel than nature had
intended they should flow in ; there was a
restless, suspicious expression in his eyes,
which sometimes contracted with a gloom
that was almost savage in its intensity ;
but none of this was visible now, there was

nothing but love and tenderness in his gaze
as he regarded the fair girl beside him.
She was fair, the very blandest of blondes,
with a complexion that was milk-white in
its dazzling fairness, with just a suspicion
of a rose tint upon her cheeks ; her rich,
full lips were always half parted, which gave
a peculiarly innocent expression to her face ;
her hair was of the purest gold, and grew
low upon the forehead, not in a fuzz of curls
and wrinkles, but in natural wavy lines,
parted in the middle, drawn back and
gathered into a low knot behind  much as
the beauty of a thousand years ago is represented
in the lovely bust of *' Clothe," so
familiar to our sight. Her blue eyes looked
dreamily out from beneath the straight,
level brows ; but they were not always
dreamy, sometimes a look came into them
as though a world of tragedy was hidden
therein, as though she had lived through

some terrible episode, or was to confront or
become an actor in some great tragedy in
the future  perhaps the premonitory
symptoms were working in the air, manifesting
themselves to the spiritual sight,
while the mortal eyes were vainly trying to
grasp and comprehend what was to come.

It was impossible to see this girl without
being attracted by her, and wondering about
her, and trying to gather somewhat of her
history from her face ; but, whatever might
lie in the past or await her in the future,
the present, in this lovely lonely corner of
the world, seemed to open out only a prospect
of peace ; it seemed impossible that
tragedy should reach forth its hand and
touch her here.

THEIR FIRST APPEARANCE.

DAYS passed on, and the inmates of the
Manor House remained shrouded in
mystery  or so it appeared to the curious
eyes and tongues of Penally. Once or
twice the family had been seen driving
through the village, and an old fisherman
had met them strolling along the beach in
the gloaming, had exchanged 'good evenings,"
and that was all ! The usual tradespeople
called at the house daily for orders,
which were always given in writing, and
with a liberal exchange of* smiles, and a
volley of un comprehended words ; but as

neither party understood the language of
the other, there was no harm done. No
gossip from the kitchen told the doings in
the parlour, and no gleams of the family
history wandered out into the world beyond.
An old lame fishwife was the only person
who had penetrated into the house. The
young mistress had seen her toiling up the
hill, and had desired her to go into the
kitchen and rest awhile. She had come to
her there, and talked to her, and asked ]per
about the poor folk, their doings and their
needs ; and had listened with patient sympathy
to the poor soul's story of the hardships
the fishermen had to endure on stormy
nights at sea ; and then how often they
came home with empty nets, sails torn, and
craft crippled, barely reaching the land
with their lives ; and while they worked
to repair the damage, but for the help of
neighbours almost as poor as themselves.

must have starved outright. '' An her kind
words warmed my heart better 'n the meat
and drink she gave me' said the old woman,
as she related her experiences to a group of
fishermen and women, who, as she came
down the beach, left off mending their boats
and nets, and surrounded her, eager for the
news. Some of the old men were gaunt and
grim, their faces scarred with half a century's
battle with the wild tempestuous sea ; the
younger men, already bronzed with rough
weather, were stalwart and strong  young
sea-dogs, soaked through and through with
the salt sea brine. All alike gathered round,
as eager to hear the news as though the
doings and mystery of the Manor House
concerned them in their hardworking life
at all ! But people who have little excitement
in their own lives  no matter whether
they be high or low  take the keenest
interest in that of their neighbours. It was

astonishing how much the old woman found
to say of that one brief interview  interlarding
the facts with scraps from her own
imagination, telling not only what she saw
and heard, but what she thought and fancied!
They followed her with a running fire of
remarks and interrogations, and having
discussed the subject in all its bearings, and
considered it gravely, they decided that no
matter where the new gentry at the Manor
House came from, and no matter whether
they were foreigners or not, so long as they
had consideration for, and sympathy with,
the poor, they were as good as the best
Christians about Penally ; wiser heads than
theirs might have come to no better conclusion.


The rectory and church of Penally was
some little distance from the village, and
also from the Manor House. Of course it
was expected that the Rector, the Rev.

Joseph Spencer, would be among the first
to call on his new parishioners ; it was
clearly his duty to do so from courtesy, as
well as regarding the matter from a religious
point of view, for of whatever denomination
of Christians they might be, they would
naturally expect the recognition of the
rector of the parish, and if they did not
approve of his creed, would at least appreciate
his courtesy.

The Rev. Joseph Spencer was a mild,
mousy-looking man, with a slow gliding
motion, and a low, soft voice, that had something
of the purring quality of the pussy-cat
in it. His countenance expressed nothing in
particular ; it was generally, when in society,
clothed in smiles, and wore an amiable air
of self-satisfaction. Some people say the
face is an index to the mind ; it may be so,
but it is an index that requires a great deal
of correction before it can be admitted in

the current edition of human nature. Taking
the Eev. Joseph Spencer's face as an
index to his mind, you would have said
there was nothing in it which would be a
mistake, for he had a great deal of mind ; it
might not be of the finest quality, but there
was plenty of it, such as it was. He had a
profound respect for his calling, combined
with a strong sense of his own responsibility,
which was sometimes too much for him ; he
felt that the salvation of the whole parish
depended upon his single exertions, and to a
conscientious man this was a very trying
position.

Most of the neighbouring clergymen contented
themselves with minding their own
business, and leaving their parishioners
alone, except when they could be of use
to them, then they were always to the
fore, comforting the sick and sorrowful
with kind words and cheering promises,

showing the miserable how to get out of
the slough of despond into the clean way
again, helping the helpless to help themselves
 which is, perhaps, the hardest task
of all  leading and guiding their flocks in
the right direction ; but Mr. Spencer did
not approve of what he called ' a weak,
namby-pamby way of doing things." He
went vigorously to work, and did his duty
to his own satisfaction at least, if not
always to other people's. He hunted up
the sins of his parishioners as though he
loved them ; he pursued them with lash
and scourge, and hurled such fierce denunciations
on the heads of the poor sinners,
that they fled at the sound of his soft, persistent
voice, and hid their sins out of sight,
while he gloried in his achievement, and
fancied he had slain the sin, whereas he
had only tempted the sinner to add hypocrisy
to the rest of his vices. Well, he was

sincere in his way, and believed in the
wisdom of his own proceedings, both as a
magistrate and as a clergyman ; for he was
Justice of the Peace for the county, and
was noted for the strict, stern justice he
meted out to all wrong-doers, from a petty
delinquent to the hardened criminal, they
all knew the harshest sentence the law
allowed would be given to them by the
mild-mannered Eector. His was strict justice,
untempered by mercy or consideration
of circumstances surrounding the culprits
no * extenuating circumstances '' were admitted
into his code of administration.
He was proud of the openhanded way in
which he held the scales of justice  no
hair's-breadth of favour on either side ; and
with something of the old Spartan spirit
he used to boast that if his own flesh and
blood were brought before him in criminal
guise, he would pronounce sentence as upon

a stranger. God help him should that day
of trial ever come !

His wife, Mrs. Spencer, was a most
worthy helpmeet to her lord, his very
counterpart in petticoats. She was a
small, shrivelled, wiry little woman, with
the small black eyes and thin sharp features
which invariably indicate the shrew,
and she was rich in all shrewish virtues 
a fact fully realised by those who were unfortunately
drafted into her service. Still,
she was what is called a thoroughly good
woman  she kept the ten commandments,
as respectable, well-regulated sinners generally
do ; she never outraged propriety, and
the high, rigidly moral tone of her mind was
a thing unquestioned ; in fact, she had so
many principles crowded into a small space
none of them had room to grow or bear
any pleasant fruit ; one principle reacted so
strongly upon another that they became a

tangled mass, dwarfed and stunted, whence
no generous or kindly thing could be extricated.
She had no sympathy with bodily
suffering or mental tribulation, and generally
comforted the afflicted by trying to assure
them that their troubles were their own
fault, and they ' ought to bear up." Her
really sterling good qualities were marred
by their hard casing ; but, nevertheless, she
was a good woman, detestably good ! a few
feminine follies, a touch of tenderness, a
gleam of kindliness, might have won affectionate
regard; many worse women are
dearly loved, she was only tolerated. However,
she was a helpmate to her husband;
each believed in the other's perfection, so
the world had nothing to say in the matter.
This notable pair had a son and a
daughter, each being an improvement on
the parent stock, so far as can be at present
judged, for they are still young, and

VOL. I. 4

the germs of good or evil within their
natures have yet to develop and bear
poison, fruit, or flowers  who can tell
which ? Hugh was a fine, lithe young
fellow, of about four-and-twenty, and was
keeping his last term at Oxford. He was
brimming over with health and high spirits ;
he was a smart oarsman, a crack shot, a
graceful and fearless rider ; in fact, he was
thoroughly accomplished in all athletic
sports and manly exercises ; wherever
manly strength, courage, or endurance,
was called into action, he stood always
in the first rank. His intellectual capacities
were perhaps limited, certainly their
development was slow, and by no means
to the satisfaction of his superiors ; he was
most popular with his fellows, but to his
college, which had turned out some of the
most prominent men of the day, he was no
credit at all.

The daughter, Miriam, was some years
younger. She was taller, fairer, handsomer
than her mother, with light brown wavy
hair, and large blue eyes like painted china,
and almost as dull and expressionless. Her
character was in a crude state of formation,
though it was naturally warped and narrowed
by home influences. Whether those
pale eyes would ever glow with passion or
melt with tenderness were speculations that
only the future could decide.

Just about the time when the Manor House
was taken possession of by the new arrivals
Hugh Spencer happened to be at home for a
brief vacation, and of course was stirred by
the current of curiosity that was working
round them, though it did not take possession
of him so strongly as it did of some
others. He listened to the clatter of
tongues about him, and merely uttered his
own wonderment in brief lazy phrases
which were forgotten as soon as uttered.

Sunday morning came, and everybody
wondered whether the new-comers would
make their appearance at church; a great
deal of neighbourly feeling depended upon
that. The Eector had not yet had an opportunity
of paying his respects to them, but
intended doing so the following week.
Meanwhile the church bells rang out on
the still morning air, echoing over the hills
and through the valleys with a sweet
solemn sound such as only the Sabbath
bells have power to awaken. That part of
the country, as I have said before, was
sparsely populated, but the scattered population
came from far and near, and gathered
together at the parish church as was their
duty on the Sabbath morning. Some
sauntered through the quaint little churchyard,
stopping here and there at the grave
of some friend or kindred, perhaps laying a
bunch of bright flowers on the green sod, a

token of remembrance to those who lay
beneath, whose feet had once trodden those
well-worn paths as they listened to the selfsame
sounds  deaf now  deaf to the music
of the church bells for evermore.

Many glances were cast along the winding
high-road through which the gentry from the
Manor House would come to the church, if
they came at all ; but there was no signs of
them. The bells ceased, the last few
stragglers entered the low arched doorway,
but scarcely had the congregation settled
dov/n to ifs customary devotions, when the
doors opened and let in a stream of sunlight
as the family from the Manor House
entered. It had increased now to a party of
three ; for in addition to the grand, white-headed
old man and the young girl, there
came in a tall, broad-shouldered, good-looking
young man, with a smooth brown
beard and brown eyes, and altogether of a

distinguished appearance ; and as his hand
rested on the pew door, those who observed
it could not help thinking what a strong,
white, shapely hand it was. I am afraid
that the new-comers interfered somewhat
with the devotional spirit of the people; furtive
glances were cast towards them, and a
sort of mental arithmetic, a general summing
up of their appearance and of their possible
characters, ran through the minds of the
worshippers.

The inhabitants of the Eector's pew, however,
with one exception, kept in solemn
position. Mrs. Spencer would as soon have
thought of cutting her head off as of turning
it in the wiong direction during the service.
Her daughter, Miriam, as usual followed her
mother's example ; but the refractory Hugh
faced boldly round, swept the whole party
with one swift glance, then settled his attention
on Clarice, thinking, or rather feeling.

that his eyes had never beheld a face so
divinely fair ; fair, not as to complexion only,
but in the broadest acceptation of the word.
In vain he tried to turn his eyes away, some
mesmeric influence seemed to draw them
to her face against his will, for he felt it
was rude to stare so persistently at the
beautiful stranger, but he could not help it ;
even when he tore his eyes away and tried
to fix his attention on his father's sermon,
her face shadowed itself in the air and
floated before him. He strained his ears to
catch the sound of her voice as she uttered
the responses, but it was lost in the hearty
sonorous responses of the older man, and
swallowed up in the volume of voices round
them.

Presently the anthem began. The congregation
was musical, and it seemed as
though every man, woman, and child uplifted
their voices and sang their hardest,

whether in time or out of time it was a
matter of supreme indifference. In church
everybody thinks they have a right to sing,
whether they have the qualification for it or
not; they love the sound of their own
voices, and take every opportunity of gratifying
their taste, heedless of the torture
they inflict on their more cultivated fellow
creatures, but mere lip service is nothing in
the sight of Good. He accepts the incense
rising from the pure heart, no matter how
tuneless the utterance, so that it is in His
honour and glory ; the rude voice of the
peasant is as welcome to His ears as the
rich tones of the prima donna. What was
wanting in music the present congregation
made up in noise. Mr. Spencer was not
sensitive upon the subject ; he liked this
kind of demonstration, and encouraged his
flock to uplift to His glory such voices as
God had given them.

Gradually into the discordant roar of
voices there crept a sweet melodious
sound ; low at first, then swelling and rising
till it impregnated the air with its own
sweet music. One by one the harsher
voices hushed, every man looked at his
neighbour and listened and wondered
whence came that unusual and delicious
sound. Such a thing had never happened in
Penally Church ! Hitherto they had had
things all to themselves ; they hardly knew
whether to resent this strange phenomenon
as an intrusion or welcome it as an invisible
grace sent straight from heaven ! Some
ceased singing altogether, some few shut
their eyes, opened their mouths, and roared
louder than before, as though trying to
drown the sweetness in their own muddy
strain.

Hugh Spencer listened with bated breath ;
he seemed to hear with his heart rather than

with his ears, for he was deaf to all sounds
save that one sweet woman s voice. The
anthem ceased, the congregation sank down
on its knees to pray, but Hugh remained
standing in a listening, waiting attitude 
apparently lost and absorbed by one
thought ; but a violent tug at his coat-tail
recalled him to himself. He glared round
just in time to catch a stern rebuke from
the corner of his mother's eye as she
dropped her head into her prayer book,
and, with anything but devotion in his
thoughts, he took his place beside her.

Mr. Spencer never gave long sermons,
they were generally of about twenty minutes'
duration. He was sensible enough to know
that he could not-x the attention of his
hearers for a longer period, even if he were
himself inclined to extend his discourse ;
after all, a great deal may be said in twenty
minutes. In that brief space a brisk orator

will awaken the religious fervour of his flock
and lash them into a state of pious extasy,
while a mere commonplace preacher may
drone for an hour without stirring a single
pulse of his hearers. Twenty minutes is
quite long enough to listen to the monotonous
voice of any one man ; at the end of
that time the very sameness of the sound is
apt to send the congregation to sleep, and
Mr. Spencer would not run the risk of
tempting them to sin in that direction,
therefore his discourse was always brief. On
the present occasion it was even briefer
than usual, but to Hugh it seemed endless.
However, the service was over at last.
Now, as a rule, Hugh was most punctilious
in his attentions to his womankind, but on
this occasion he forgot everything ; he was
animated only by one wild impulse to rush
after the Manor House family, with what
object he hardly knew, he had not had time

to think. As he was about to follow his
impulse, his mother laid a detaining hand
upon him, and a decorous crowd moved
slowly between him and the door, and
though inwardly chafing in spirit, he was
obliged to walk with equal decorum by her
side down the aisle. Once outside the
church he gazed eagerly round, but was
only just in time to see the trio turn into
the narrow winding lane on their way home
to the Manor House. So they had walked to
church, that was evident, and a good many
pair of eyes followed them wonderingly.

They had come like shadows, and departed
without a word or even exchanging a single
salutation with any one about the place.
Mr. Laurence, who for the last thirty years
had done all the "law" for the scattered
population of Penally, came briskly out of
church and joined the Spencer party before
they had left the churchyard. After exchanging

the usual commonplace salutation
with the ladies, he tapped Hugh on the
shoulder, jerked his head in the direction of
the departed attractions, and said :

**I called there yesterday; come along,
and I'll tell you all about them." With an
unusual stretch of generosity, Mrs. Spencer
invited him home to the Eectory to lunch.

rriHE Eectory table was never very liberal
ally supplied, strict economy being one
of the virtues Mrs. Spencer rigidly practised.
She could not outgrow with better circumstances
the enforced economy of her early
days, when her husband was a poor, a very
poor man, and bone-scraping and cheese-paring
were the engrossing occupations of
her daily life. Circumstances had improved,
they stood now on the topmost branch of
the clerical tree, had a firm footing in the
world, and a handsome income to prevent

them from falling ; but the penurious spirit
followed her through all her days, and kept
her in a continual state of warfare with the
rest of her household, for Mr. Spencer liked
a good dinner, and sometimes stood upon
his dignity, and insisted upon having it.
But domestic warfare is a wearying,
spirit-breaking thing, and to a man who
has other important occupations it is
almost impossible it can be carried on at
all successfully. It is easier to give way
than to live in a constant state of revolt
against the powers that be. Not that Mrs.
Spencer was allowed to carry on her
economical operations in undisturbed peace
of mind by any means. She occasionally
quailed beneath the marital storm provoked
by the exercise of her cherished
virtue ; and then her son Hugh's healthy
appetite was the bugbear of her life. He
hould be fed, and if the legitimate supplies

fell short, would stroll leisurely out and
twist the neck of the fattest fowl on the
premises, and broil it for his own special
delectation.

It was no use attempting to parry the
attacks of Hugh's hunger, so in some sort
of compensation for her sufferings thereby
she put her household on the shortest of
short commons ; and when a rebellion arose
against the shortness and the quality of the
provisions the stir reached the Rector's ears.
He had the household put upon board-wages
forthwith; so the lady's operations were
thenceforth confined to the parlour, and
there, to a certain extent, the Rector could
keep an eye upon things himself.

*' I don't so much mind being starved
when we are alone," he had once said, in
grim satire to his better half; * but I will
not be disgraced in the presence of my
friends, or in the sight of my parish." And

for a time things had gone better, though
the lady herself did not quite approve of the
arrangement, as it took a certain amount of
power out of her hands. She loved to overlook
the larder and superintend the voracious
appetites of her servants, parcelling
out the scraps of cold meat, etc. ; for woe
betide those who dared to appropriate a
scrap without her permission, and any
suggestion as to the unfitness of the food for
human digestion was answered by a homily
upon the wicked sin of daintiness.

Her hospitable invitation to Mr. Laurence
took the whole family by surprise, as their
Sunday meal generally consisted of bread-and-butter,
with perhaps a single chop for the
hungry Hugh ; but on this special Sunday
they did not know but that she might have
made magnificent preparations, with a
shadowy notion lurking in the background of
her mind of establishing friendly relations

VOL. I. 5

with the Manor House family by inviting
them home to luncheon should they give her
an opportunity of doing so ; but that opportunity
failing, she had forced her hospitable
spirit to embrace Mr. Laurence. Hence
they followed her lead in trustful mood.

The dining-room was a large, handsome
apartment, sweet with the scent of spring
flowers, while an invigorating fragrance
from the sea came in at the open window.
The table was laid with the whitest of white
napery, and an abundance of shining silver
and glass, and a profusion of primroses
scattered about everywhere. So far all
promised well. There were two dishes, one
at each end of the table, their bright covers
evidently hiding something hot and tempting.
The cold refreshments were scantily
provided ; a few broken sardines lurked
ignominiously in a tiny ocean of rancid oil,
and a couple of hard-boiled eggs, cut in half

reposed upon a parsley bed ; a large loaf, and
a few small nuts of butter completed the
cold refreshments for the meal. Grace was
said, and with a great flourish the covers
were removed, and disclosed upon the dish
before the master of the house a savory
stew  a very savory, if not a very tempting
stew ; it had almost walked out of the larder
the day before  its progress had only been
arrested by a bath of vinegar, a plentiful
shower of pepper, salt, and a disguise . of
ketchup and other tasty condiments, which,
after some mysterious culinary operations,
fitted it to masquerade upon the table asa
delicious something a la jardiniere.
But the disguise was too thin; the suspicious
character of the original mess revealed
itself  the cover was replaced. With
a thundercloud upon his brow, but a ghost
of a smile upon his lips, Mr. Spencer said,
in the oldest of accents :

ffVERsiTY OF
'-'OIS ,

 What have you there, Jemima ? "

*A little devilled chicken, dear," she
answered blandly, as a couple of bare drumsticks,
artistically arranged on either side of
the breastbone, and profusely decorated with
water cress and parsley, were revealed view.
' May I send you some, Mr. Laurence ? "
she added, sweetly.

spray help your daughter first," he
answered. ' Unless I have something hereto
tempt you? " he added, turning to Miss
Spencer.

"Thanks," she answered. ''I take only
bread-and-butter in the middle of the
day."

That is exactly my case," rejoined Mr.
Laurence, who was perfectly well aware of
the peculiarities of the mistress of the
house, and when he accepted her invitation
to lunch did so under no delusion whatever.
With a good breakfast and a good dinner.

a mere crust and a glass of wine is the
proper thing for the midday snack."

* For all those who consider their health,
it is certainly the most correct arrangement,"
replied the lady, graciously. " Hugh,
my dear boy, what are you taking ? "

** There doesn't seem much for the * dear
boy ' to take," said the Eector, brusquely.
*shave up the cold joint. I like sl piece de
resistance where one can cut and come
again," he added smilingly to his visitor.

"You know we never have large joints,
Joseph," said the lady, severely. "Hugh,
dear, do taste this fricandeau.' Hugh
wisely refused. "But you used to Eke
French cookery," she urged, " and this is
done after a very famous receipt."

Thanks, my dear mother," he answered ;
"but I don't care for French cookery a la
S'penceroni, Nature did not build me on
the same ethereal principles as the rest of

my family," he added to Mr. Laurence. '' I
go in for three good square meals a day."

' You are not carrying out that principle
now," observed Mr. Laurence, seeing he
touched nothing, not even bread-and-butter."


*' But I shall presently. Look in at Radcliffe's
in about an hour, and you'll find me
seated before a broad sirloin; you'll see
then how I get along," said Hugh, paying
the smile of satisfaction in advance.

*' People preach a crusade against overdrinking,"
smiled Mrs. Spencer; 'but
nobody has a word to say about over-eating,
and I think gluttony is as great a vice as
drunkenness."

'' So it is, my dear Jemima," replied Mr.
Spencer; 'but at least you have the satisfaction
of knowing that you do your best to
put that vice down."

Of course they could not discuss their

neighbours in the presence of the servants ;
but as soon as the meagre meal was over,
and the door closed on the domestics, they
moved to the attack.

'* Now, Mr. Laurence," said Mrs. Spencer,
settling down for a nice dish of gossip,
*you say you've called at the Manor
House. We have not had an opportunity
of doing so yet, though I certainly think the
first call should have been from the church ;
but tell us, who did you see ? what did they
talk about ? and how do they seem to like
Cornwall?"

My dear mother, they have not been
here long enough to know much about the
place," said Hugh.

*rand certainly they can know nothing
about the people, for they have seen nobody,"
observed the Rector.

*'I think they are very uncommon and
queer-looking," said Miriam.

Queer ! not at all  uncommon ! very,"
rejoined Hugh, sharply. 'rit is not often
you see that kind of thing down in this
desolate hole ; they are a cut above the
general breed altogether."

That is a slangy way of talking, Hugh,"
rejoined Mrs. Spencer, deprecatingly; "and
I don't know that it is quite correct. They
are certainly very odd-looking  not that I
object to them on that score."

That's lucky," replied Hugh, " especially
as you can't alter or cut them down to your
own pattern."

Taking them altogether, I think them
rather attractive," added Mrs. Spencer,
finishing her sentence, entirely ignoring her
son's interruption

Father," echoed Hugh, emphatically.
"And decidedly good Christians, or they
wouldn't have walked three miles to hear
the governor preach."

The old gentleman is a very dignified,
fine-looking man," said Mrs. Spencer.

And the girl, I suppose, would be called
pretty," said Miriam, hesitating, as though
for her part she rather doubted it.

 Pretty!" echoed Hugh; ' she's the
very loveliest girl I have ever seen, more
like an angel than a woman."

*you can't say much for her modesty,
anyhow," rejoined his sister. *'I never
heard any one sing out in the way she did
this morning, especially a stranger in a
strange church, and in my opinion "

* And I dare say * your opinion * will be of
supreme importance to them when they
come to know it," said Hugh, almost
savagely, for the general family tone irritated
him.

** Well," exclaimed the Eector, * you have
asked Mr. Laurence half a dozen questions
and haven't given him a chance to answer
one''

'' We all beg his pardon," laughed Hugh ;
' but you know, my dear sir, women are
like horses, and when they get the bit in
their mouths they are off at a tangent."

 At any rate you laid no hand upon the
bridle rein, but rather helped the runaways,"
rejoined Mr. Laurence, who was deliberate
in his manner and movements, and had
waited in patience to put in his word.

Well, we've come to a stand-still now,
so fire away and tell us all you know about
them," said Hugh.

 We called there, Mrs. Laurence and I,
yesterday, and saw the whole family at
home."

*the old gentleman, and his son and
daughter ? " suggested Mrs. Spencer,
anxious for every detail.

** Well, that does not turn out to be the
relationship," he answered.

 Surely the young people are brother and
sister ? " inquired Miriam,

Horrible idea ! ' Surely riot husband and
wife ! " exclaimed Hugh.

' Not that either. The old gentleman
first introduced me to the young lady,
saying, ' My daughter Clarice ; ' then to his
nephew, Mr. Swayne. When I afterwards,
in the course of conversation, addressed the
young lady as Miss Fleming, he smiled and
corrected me, saying,  She is my stepdaughter
; her name is Lemaire.' So you
see the family is composed of Mr. Fleming,
his nephew, and step daughter."

 And does that fellow, the nephew, stay
here always ? " inquired Hugh.

* My dear boy, I could not presume to
ask such a question."

* And do they seem to be nice pleasant
kind of people, and inclined to be sociable ? "
asked Mrs. Spencer*'

I don't know about being sociable

exactly," returned Mr. Laurence, ' but they
are certainly a most charming, interesting
family, very cultivated and agreeable, but I
should say might be a little exclusive."

* Of course that is quite right and
natural," exclaimed Mrs. Spencer ; *' one
couldn't expect people of their kind to know
everybody."

And as everybody lives half a dozen
miles from everybody else, there is no
necessity that they should," rejoined
Hugh.

Unfortunately J, as the Eector's wife,
am forced into intimacies with people whom,
under other circumstances, I should not
know."

'* You are in your proper sphere, my dear
Jemima," said the Rector, taking her words
as an insinuation against her position,
against himself. *' You have here exactly
the kind of position you ought to value 

among the poor, the humble, and the ignorant,
to whom it is your blessed privilege to
be not only a spiritual light, but a moral
guide."

*' It is all very well talking, Joseph,"
replied the lady, ' but suppose people luon't
be guided, and the more light you show the
farther they wander away into the darkness !
We've been here ten years, as you know
Mr. Laurence, and devoted ourselves to the
parish, and in spite of our labours people
are worse now than they were when we first
came among them, and there's more vice,
more drunkenness, more poaching ; and I'm
sure I'm always rating the women, warning
them of the terrible punishment which
awaits them in the next world, and the
Rector never misses a chance of sending a
man to jail ! " she added, viciously.

The manufacturing of jail-birds made
easy," exclaimed Hugh. people take

human nature at the wrong end, and then
wonder they can't get it right."

"Wrong end  what do you mean?"
snapped his mother. "What can one do
more than punish the sinful ? "

"Ah, that's just it," returned Hugh ; " if
you punished less, perhaps there would be
more satisfaction on both sides. Remember
the old gentleman who gave the thief a pair
of silver candlesticks, and turned him into
an honest man and a good Christian for ever
afterwards ! "

That is an upside down way of doing
business, which I don't at all approve," said
Mrs. Spencer, severely. " I call that downright
encouragement of vice  it is our duty
to labour for the suppression of it."

But, my dear mother, your labour by
your own account only seems to increase
it," he rejoined. " Suppose you go on
another tack, and instead of talking so much

about the next world try to make the poor
folk jollier, and in this you'll find things go
easier all round. What's the use of preaching
to a set of poor, ill-fed, hard-worked
people ? give 'em a good meal, I say  fill
their bodies, and then pitch into their souls,
and preach and pray as hard as you like  a
fellow can't be pious on an empty stomach."

'You have a very coarse, commonplace
way of putting things, Hugh," said Mrs.
Spencer, with an air of deep disgust. ' I
regard matters through a larger view of
spiritual light."

*' Well, you have a wide field here for
spiritual gymnastics, but you don't seem to
make much of it, somehow."

While they were talking, the Eector had
passed into his study, resolved to receive no
information second hand, but to see and
judge of his parishioners for himself; Miriam
had been having a quiet chat aside with Mr.

Laurence, and now broke in upon the conversation,
saying  ' You've wandered away
from the Manor House again, and Fve got
all the news. Mr. Laurence thinks there is
something wrong about Miss Lemaire."

'* Not wrong," exclaimed Mr. Laurence,
hastily, ' only something a little strange.
Mr. Fleming seems to watch over her with
rather more than common parental care. I
fancy it is for her sake he has sought sea-air
and a mild climate."

' Judging from a mere cursory glance I
should say she was decidedly delicate, and
if they are really in search of health " (Mrs.
Spencer emphasized the " really " as if she
doubted it), '* I know of no place where they
are so likely to find it as at Penally ; but
there is so much mystery about them, one
can't help being a little anxious, perhaps
a little suspicious. One naturally likes
to know something about one's neighbours."

*' Oh, bother ! " replied the irritated Hugh.
*' Why can t you let your neighbours alone ?
What does it matter to you where they have
come from, or why they have come. If you
find them nice pleasant people, is not that
enough ? "

* No, Hugh, it certainly is not enough'
said his mother, emphatically. ' The worst
people are sometimes the most pleasant.
There's so much deceit, hypocrisy, and
wickedness in the world. They may be
Fenians, conspirators, flying from justice ;
or criminals or bankrupts, or  or  indeed it
is impossible to say what they might not
be."

** Except," exclaimed Mr. Laurence, with
a quiet twinkle in his eye, for he knew the
lady well, *that the kind of people you
mention don't travel in such a style, and
with such evidence of wealth as our new
neighbours do."

VOL. I. 6

'' Ah, well ! when people try to hide what
they really are, it is no wonder they should
be taken for what they are not," rejoined
Mrs. Spencer, sharply.

*'If you lived at Penally, Hugh, instead
of paying us a flying visit now and then,
you would quite understand how horribly
dull we should be if we could not speculate
about our neighbours," said Miriam, in
rather an injured tone.

*' Besides," added Mrs. Spencer, * it is
our duty as common Christians to take a
human interest in our neighbours."

' But when the * human interest' dwindles
down to a gossiping groove, as it generally
does with women," said Hugh, full of
spiteful speculations and slanderous insinuations,
' it would perhaps be as well, and
more Christianity, if you let the ' human
interest ' alone."

' How severe you are," said Mrs. Spencer,

mildly; '* quite out of temper it seems, aid
on the Sabbath day too ! "

Miriam laughed.

 I think Miss Lemaire is answerable for
Hugh's ill-temper ! He seems to have fallen
a victim at first sight."

** Pshaw ! " exclaimed Hugh, as he strode
out of the room, and after a few minutes'
desultory chat Mr. Laurence followed him.

'' We haven't heard much from Mr.
Laurence, mother," said Miriam.

''No, my dear," returned Mrs. Spencer;
"he says little, but he may know a great
deal more than he chooses to tell us  besides
he's a lawyer, and likes to keep things
close. We'll go over to the Manor House
tomorrow. I've a keen scent, and if I
smell a rat, I'll soon have it out of its hole,
tail and all ; but come, my dear, we shall be
late for afternoon service, and we should
not let worldly matters interfere with our
religious duties."

MAKING ACQUAINTANCE.

HUGH Spencer was up betimes in
the morning, and, with his gmi flmig
over his shoulder, started for a Utile harmless
sport among the sea-gulls or anything
else that came in his way during his
desultory ramble among the crags and cliffs
that made so picturesque the neighbourhood
of Penally. As he crossed the
orchard he met Miriam returning from the
farmyard with a basket of new-laid eggs,
for she had sole charge of the poultry, and
kept the hens strictly to their duty, and if

they refused to lay, or conducted themselves
in any eccentric or wandering fashion, they
had their necks wrung and were speedily
made an end of. On seeing her brother
equipped for a day's outing, she exclaimed
in surprise 

** Well, you might let the sea-gulls rest
for a day. I know mother expects you to
go with us to the Manor House this afternoon."



"Well, you know I don't particularly
care about paying morning calls," he
answered, 'especially with women."

*ewe thought you'd be glad of the
chance of making the acquaintance of your
fair St. Cecilia."

*' But I shall choose a chance of my own
making," he answered; "no stereotyped
introductions in that quarter for me."

"If they turn out satisfactory and we
like them," rejoined his sister, sententiously,

*' we mean to ask them to dinner,
and get a few of our neighbours to meet
them."

* For heaven's sake don't do that, or I
shall turn tail and run ! " exclaimed Hugh,
who had a wholesome horror of the dreary
festivities that characterized the Eectory
dinner parties.  Let them have breathing
time before we afflict them with that style
of entertainment."

 You always complain of its being so dull
at Penally," rejoined his sister, reproachfully,
* and yet, whenever we try to make
things lively, you get cross and dissatisfied."

** Because you have such dismal ideas ol
liveliness," he answered. 'Now, a picnic
at the Land's End would be the sort of
initiatory festivity that I should like."

 And so should I," responded Miriam,
with unaccustomed liveliness. ** I'll speak
to mamma about it, and talk it over as

we go along. I think it's a capital idea,
Hugh''

*' You must look sharp about it, you
know," he rejoined, ** for I shall be going
back to Cambridge in a week; at least,
that's what I ought to do," he added,
correcting himself. ' Au revoir ! I say,
Miriam," he continued, jerking his head in
the direction of the Manor House ; '* try and
make a fair impression over there ; you
don't have such a chance every day."

** Oh ! of course," answered Miriam, who
had an exalted idea of her own importance,
as most commonplace people have ; ' ' and if
I find the girl nice, I dare say I shall pick
her up and get intimate with her, for a time
at least."

** I'm off  so don't expect me till you seeme,"
said Hugh, interrupting her with
some impatience ; the family tone calmly
adopted by Miriam irritated and jarred

upon his nerves ; the idea of that divinity
being 'picked up" by a piece of common
clay struck him as a kind of profanity
to which he could make no reply.

It was one of those sweet silent spring
mornings when everything seems watching
and waiting for the birth of the bright
summer time with its trailing troops of
fruits and flowers. The fresh, invigorating
air seemed to come down straight from
heaven laden with a thousand subtle perfumes,
which gave new zest to the life
of man, as to the life of the woods, fields,
and flowers. Light of heart and light of
limb, a fine specimen of a stalwart young
Englishman, Hugh Spencer sauntered on
his way, his gun flung over his shoulder,
and a white wiry terrier at his heels, with
a brown patch over one eye and a long,
uncompromising tail ; a scaramouch of
a dog, a pariah and an outcast from his

nobler tribe, but the very apple of his
master's eye.

Hugh had rescued him from a violent
death in his early days of puppyhood, and
in acknowledgment of this obligation
the dog rewarded his master with the
most devoted and profound affection that
the canine mind is capable of feeling ;
but, as though to counterbalance his
devotion to the one human being, he
seemed to have a sworn enmity to every
other ; he neither loved nor obeyed anybody
except his master ; he hunted everything
that was unable, from a cat upwards
and downwards, and if he could only get a
surreptitious snap at anybody's heels, he
'' went for him there and then " ; but a
word or look from his master was always
enough to control his high spirits and quell
the spirit of mischief within him.

This amiable beast revelled in the name

of '' Crib' being named after the celebrated
prize-fighter, whose proclivities he largely
inherited, for a fight  a good rollicking
fight  was a thing he most delighted in ;
no matter if his opponent were as big asa
donkey. Crib was always ready for the
attack, and sprang to it on the slightest
provocation, or on no provocation at all;
he indulged his pugnacious spirit merely
by way of exercise, and though he bore
upon him the scars of many a battle, his
fiery spirit was still unquenched. Close
upon his master's heels followed the evil-minded
Crib, looking hypocritically meek
and amiable, wagging his tail in a slow,
harmless fashion, as though not a spark of
mischief lingered therein. The sea-gulls
were allowed to have a good time, unmolested
by Hugh's gun; he seemed to
have forgotten the use of it. Whistling
softly to himself, he sauntered on, allowing

his feet to carry him whither they would,
apparently exercising no control over them.
Now and then he addressed a few words to
his foiirfooted companion ; it was his habit
to consult Crib whenever he was perplexed
in mind, or in any way troubled or doubtful
as to any particular course of conduct.
Crib listened with his intelligent eyes fixed
upon his master's face, looking wise as
though he were taking it all into his moral
digester, and after due meditation answered
with an approving bark and gravely undulating
tail  always to the satisfaction of
his master, who translated it according to
his own desire.

sall right," Hugh would answer; 'I
knew you would agree with me. Ah ! if
you could only talk, what an invaluable
friend you would be, old Crib ! "

Through the woods, under the shade of
the beautiful green trees, with the sunlight

glinting through, Hugh wandered in sweet
contentment, with the sunshine in his heart
and snatches of old songs falling from his
hips, keeping time with the songs of the
birds overhead. Emerging at length out
of the shadowy woods on to the broken
ground, still onwards he strolled seaward,
and soon reached the rugged grey cliffs.
Here he paused and looked out upon the
open sea. The sun poured down his full
measure of light, and flooded the land and
sea with golden glory, shining everywhere
alike, leaving no corner of the earth
unvisited, sending a narrow tremulous
pathway of dancing light across the sea,
over which the thoughts might wander at
will, away up to the heavens, till they
were lost in the infinite, or swallowed up
in the mists of the distant horizon. A
rough winding pathway led down from the
cliffs to the sea shore. The Manor House,

with its tall chimneys just visible through
the wilderness of green, lay about half a
mile ahead of where he stood.

Hugh persuaded himself that he was surprised
to find himself so near the home of
the divinity that filled his thoughts. He
glanced round for a moment as though in
doubt as to which road to take ; he did not
believe he had intentionally wandered in
that direction, of course not ; it was mere
chance  if there is such a thing as chance
which many wise folk learn to doubt ;
then he consulted Crib upon the subject.

* Well, Crib, old fellow, which way shall
we go, eh ? Come, you shall decide by a
wag of your tail." But Crib's tail wagged
so frantically, and he commenced such a
series of leaps and excited barks, that you
could make no sense out of him at all.
Failing to make himself understood by this
proceeding, he stood still for a moment.

regarding things with a meditative air ;
then, with ears erect and straightened tail,
darted down the cliff path.

*' So that is the way, is it, old fellow ?
Well you're as good a guide as blind old
Fate anyway," said Hugh to himself as he
slowly sauntered after the dog. His eye
wandered listlessly over the wide expanse
of living waters ; the curling waves ran
joyously along the edge of the land, their
white foam lips kissing the shore, with low
musical murmuring as though they loved
it. Oh ! the cruel, treacherous sea ! so
wooing, calm, and fair it seems ! yet in a
few short hours those tiny wavelets may
swell and merge into thundering billows
rising mountains high, hugging the big ship
to death in their strong embrace, or crushing
it like an egg-shell on the rock-bound
shore ! But now all things of earth, air, or
ocean seemed lulled to rest in this heavenly

calm. It was impossible for '' thoughts to
fret or fears to frown " in such an atmosphere
of perfect peace.

Hugh's spirit was in unison with the scene
round him ; his thoughts took to themselves
wings, and wandered away into dreamland
or revelled in the world of unwritten poetry
and romance, with the memory of that one
fair face as his sole companionship, for in that
one brief meeting it had taken possession
of all his senses ! It was the first woman's
face he had cared to remember. Up to the
present time no woman's beauty had made
more than a passing impression upon him,
they had been reflected on his mind as on
the surface of a looking glass, and had left
not even a shadowy memory behind ! Not
that he was difficult to please, or indifferent
to the charms of womankind; on the contrary,
he was very fond of woman's society,
and liked to see bright eyes and laughing

faces, and to hear the chatter of feminine
voices round him, and there it ended.

He was accustomed to the society of
pretty women ; they were among the associations
of his daily life. If there had been
only one or two he might have fallen a
victim long ago, but there were so many of
them, one effaced the impression of the
other before it had time to fix itself on his
mind or even on his fancy. Most men suffer
from slight attacks of the tender passion before
their beards have had time to grow, but
they get through them, as they get through
the infantine diseases, hooping-cough, or
measles, but the one grand passion seizes
even them at last, and holds them fast ! But
when a man, who has not frittered away his
energies, nor weakened his feelings by the
frequent exercise of petty emotions, is once
caught in the grip of a strong passion, he
succumbs ! The strongest has no power to

struggle against it. It was something in

this way with Hugh Spencer, but as yet he

felt none of the pain, only the glory and

sweetness of love's first message. Hitherto

his days and years had passed in a round of

pleasurable excitements, varied with a little

serious study and learning sandwiches in

between, a pleasant prelude to the drama of

life that was to come. Now the curtain

lifted, and the first act of his emotional life

had begun. Whether it would hold the stage

through the whole five acts, and play it out

as a comedy or tragedy  who could tell ?

Perhaps it would be neither, for in few lives

do the real elements of tragedy commingle ;

and as for the comedy, there generally runs

through it an accompaniment of tears ; for

the most part we struggle through a rather

prosaic commonplace existence, varied by a

combination of petty cares and troubles,

lightened here and there by flashes of senti-vol.

I. 7

ment or of passion that flames, flickers, and
dies out.

Well, Hugh strolled on, feeling strangely
excited and happy, for which happiness and
excitement there seemed to be no special
cause. His *' bosom's lord sat lightly on his
throne " on this calm, glorious morning; he
felt it was a glorious thing to live ; merely
to live and breathe, with the dimpling waves
laughing at his feet and the grand old sun
shining in his eyes ; he could have flung up
his arms and shouted aloud in the exuberance
of his spirits ; but he didn't ; he strolled
on whistling softly to himself, now and then
stooping to pick up a pebble and fling it into
the sea, or to hold a characteristic colloquy
with Crib. Presently that intelligent beast
stood still, and, with his ragged ears erect
and straightened tail, was evidently preparing
to go on the war path.

'what's the matter. Crib  eh? what is

it, old man ? " exclaimed Hugh, glancing
round and seeing nothing : then Crib showed
his teeth and began to move slowly forward.
Hugh's eyes followed in the direction he
was going, and his heart seemed to standstill
 for close by, nay, within a stone's throw
from where he stood, he beheld the dignified
Bouncer silently seated on his haunches,
with a sagacious, watchful look upon his face;
he was evidently ' on guard," for, rising from
among the low-lying rocks was an outspread
dainty parasol, evidently overshadowing
somebody ! Hugh flung down his gun,
uttered a few emphatic words to Crib, who
quite understood that he was left in charge
of that instrument of destruction, and must
therefore give up his own warlike desires ; so
lying down he stretched his paws over it,
and watched his master, who slowly, very
slowly, approached the point of attraction,
till Bouncer, in a quiet, gentlemanly fashion,

quite different from the way of common
dogs, warned him to come no nearer ; hut
he was near enough to see a fair young face
in a state of calm repose, for it was indeed
Clarice Lemaire ! She had evidently been
wandering about till she had grown tired,
and sitting down to rest had fallen asleep in
that lonely, out-of-the-way spot, with her
faithful four-footed body-guard beside her.
She had stuck the handle of her parasol in
the beach so as to form a shade from the
great glare of the sun ; her hat lay beside
her, and her cheek rested on her hand as
with half-parted lips and closed eyes she
slept the sleep of innocence and peace. A
crimson glow overspread the young man's
face ! He had a kind of guilty feeling, as
though he was taking a mean advantage in
gazing at her in her unconscious pose of
beauty : but he could not tear himself away,
and stood breathless and lost in the contemplation

of her. However, he was speedily
aroused by the sound of footsteps crashing
along the pebbly beach, and in another
moment Mr. Fleming appeared from round
the jutting corner of the rugged cliffs, his
white hair streaming in the breeze, a
puggeree tied round his wide-brimmed felt
hat, and his hands filled with spoils from
the sea and shore ; in one he held a wicker
basket with masses of seaweed and a clinging
colony of tiny (some almost invisible)
specimens of ocean life, and a heterogeneous
gathering of bits of rock and stone, all
valuable in his eyes ; in the other he
carefully carried a green bottle containing
some delicate sea anemones and some other
quaint inhabitants of the watery world.
He looked hot and tired, as though he had
been wandering long and far, for he came
very slowly, picking his way over the stony
beach, Hugh inwardly rejoicing in this

chance meeting, which gave him an opportunity
of making the acquaintance of the
head of the family in a pleasant, informal
fashion. He went forward a few steps,
made some trifling remark, and introduced
himself. The old gentleman responded
with equal cordiality.

** Ah ! I remember," he said, '' we saw
you in church yesterday ; we new-comers
naturally speculate about our neighbours,
and my daughter thought you must be the
Eector's son."

The idea that she had thought of him at
all was a delight to Hugh ; that she had
spoken of him thrilled him with joy !

** My mother and sister," he observed,
'' talked of paying a visit to the Manor
House this afternoon ; for my part I hate
morning calls, and congratulate myself on
this opportunity of making your acquaintance."


Mr. Fleming responded, adding : " I fancy
there is very little of that kind of visiting
in this scattered neighbourhood, where the
residents are so few and far between."

''I don't know about that," said Hugh ;
* it seems to me that the fewer the people,
the more disposed they are for general
sociability ; why, bless you, they think
nothing of asking you to drive a dozen
miles to a dinner party ! "

Ah ! " exclaimed Mr. Fleming, laughing
softly to himself,  but it would be a longtime
before I undertook such a journey ;
there, I can shake hands with you now," he
added, relieving himself of his burthens and
sitting down on a low-lying rock near by
where Clarice was reclining ; and they
drifted into a pleasant chat, talking of such
local subjects as were likely to interest a
new-comer. Meanwhile Bouncer wagged
his tail in gentle recognition of their

presence, but made no attempt to relinquish
his watch over his sleeping mistress.
Crib, evidently dissatisfied with the state of
affairs, wanted to be relieved from his position
of trust, and tried to attract his
master's attention in the most eloquent
dog-fashion that he knew, but it was all to
no purpose, and he was too good a dog to
leave his post without permission.

Presently Clarice opened wide her great
blue eyes, and slowly rose from her recumbent
position, for a moment dazzled by the
great glare of the sun.

*' My poor little girl was quite overcome
with the heat," exclaimed Mr. Fleming,
regarding her with loving eyes. '' You're
better now, dear child ! "

 Yes," she answered, dreamily, as she
looked slowly from one to the other, but
seemed in no way surprised to see her
father so companion, '' I  I thinly I have
been asleep."

' No doubt at all about that," he answered,
'' and I found this gentleman, Mr. Hugh
Spencer, the Rector's son, my dear," he
added, performing the brief ceremony of introduction,
' had joined Bouncer in keeping
guard over you." She blushed now, her
brows slightly contracted, and a vexed look
clouded her eyes.

/ Hardly that," Hugh hastened to reply,
' I was merely sauntering along the beach
when your dog attracted my attention, and
how could I help stealing a glance at "iiis
mistress ? " She answered nothing, but
patted Bouncer's big head. Hugh took
possession of the basket of seaweed, and
they commenced strolling along the beach,
when a prolonged howl from the desperate
Crib made his master turn back. Poor
Crib had tried to follow the party, dragging
the gun along with him, but the awkward
encumbrance was too much for him ; he

would not leave it, as a dog of meaner
character would have done, so made that
piteous appeal for help.

Hugh hastened to his relief, once more
flung his gun over his shoulder, and with a
few emphatic words put Crib on his good
behaviour respecting Bouncer, and then
resumed his way, keeping, however, an
anxious, watchful eye upon his four-footed
follower, not feeling quite sure that Crib's
placable aspect was genuine, and he did not
want the harmony of this pleasant meeting
to be turned to discord by any canine agitation.
Clarice could not help noticing his
constantly recurring backward glance, and
observed:

'Why are you so anxious about your
dog ? are you afraid of losing him ? "

' No ; but he is of rather an aggressive
nature, and "

Oh ! you needn't be afraid," she rejoined

quickly, * Bouncer wouldn't think of fighting
with a  little dog like that'

* A cur like that you mean to say, don't
you ? " he said, noticing her hesitation,

* Well, yes, he is a cur, isn't he ? " she
asked, innocently.

Bather'* answered Hugh,  I'm afraid
poor old Crib hasn't much to boast of in
the way of canine blue blood and breeding,
but he is the dearest, faithfulness old fellow
in the world,"

Clarice smiled sympathetically at this
tribute to his canine friend, and, glancing
with a shy, sweet smile in his face, said :

I like people who are fond of animals ;
I'm so fond of them myself ; they are intelligent,
too, as well as faithful, I'd rather
take Bouncer's opinion of a human being
than anybody else's."

Hugh felt an insane desire to propitiate
Bouncer on the spot, and speculated how

he could best win the good opinion of this
important beast. With his thoughts full of
Clarice, exulting in his good luck, and so
intoxicated with the delight of her presence
that he felt as though the laws of gravitation
had suddenly changed, and he was
walking on air  still he managed to talk
like a rational being, addressing himself
chiefly to Mr. Fleming, and in a very short
time succeeded in mounting him upon his
favourite hobby, the wonders and beauties
of nature.

''Ah!" exclaimed Hugh, 'directly I
saw you coming along with your treasures
there, I thought you went in for that sort
of thing ; which do you go in for most 
botany, geology, or "

Oh ! I'm only a bit of a naturalist,"
replied Mr. Fleming, "I 'go in,' as you
tersely put it, a little for everything; one
must learn the alphabet of nature before he

can read her works. I only regret that we
have time to learn so little, scarce time
indeed to recognize our own ignorance,
when we are called away."

' But we carry our knowledge with us,
father dear ; you have always taught me
that," said Clarice.

' I hope  I believe so," he answered, as
though not quite sure of the fact ; ' all that
is crude, that is unfathomable here will
there be perfected and be made plain."

"It would be very disheartening," rejoined
Clarice, '' to think that all we have
struggled to learn and know is to be left
behind with our dust and ashes."

'ewe leave our practical knowledge, all
that can be transferred to others, to those
whom we leave behind ; they begin where
we leave off; and so the great invisible
superstructure of knowledge rises, and will
rise till the universal collapse of nature.

when the old world gives place to a new ;
and I believe he is the happiest who contributes
most to the great work of human
progress."

Ah!" exclaimed Hugh, trying to look
wise, as though he quite understood and
appreciated the old man's views, "I daresay
it is all very right, but at present I
have done very little of that sort of work,
and you know I don't think the wisest man
is the happiest by a long chalk ; people run
after wisdom when they can't enjoy anything
else."

'Is that your opinion? " said Mr. Fleming,
elevating his brows and regarding the young
man rather curiously: ' surely the mere fact
of contributing to the good of our fellow-creatures
must be a source of happiness ! "

*but the contributions are not always
appreciated," rejoined Hugh; 'people are
apt to pelt their benefactors with stones

and garbage, metaphorically if not actually.
Now, I think a man who has good health,
a good digestion, a wholesome appetite,
strength to pull an oar, courage to face a
mad bull, and  and the power to appreciate
a beautiful woman, when he sees one, has
about as much happiness as is good for
him."

Perhaps all he is capable of enjoying,"
said the girl, gravely.

'And perhaps," added Hugh, ' when I
have been tried in many fires, and dragged
through bitter waters, I may be able to
enjoy something better; at present I am
tolerably content with things as they
are."

He looked as though he ought to be content,
striding along in the full flush of life
and flower of manhood, with the rosy dawn
of a new love stirring his spirit with a
sense of strange, mysterious joy.

"I know what you mean," rejoined
Clarice : '' you think it is better to keep at
the mountain foot, gathering and enjoying
such things as fall in your way, than to
climb the rugged mountain side, toiling and
struggling for the Edelweiss ; well, perhaps
that is best for oneself, but how about
other people? "

'why, you see," exclaimed Hugh, logically,
" if every man did the best for himself,
he would not need the best of his neighbour
; if no man allowed himself to be
naked or hungry, he wouldn't need another
to feed and clothe him, don't you see ? "

How happy you must be to walk in such
contented lines ! " said Clarice, looking at
him with that kind of admiration which a
strong, stalwart man is sure to win from
frail and dainty womankind.

Why, you don't mean to say that you're
given to that kind af metaphorical climbing

at your age ! It's too bad, almost criminal,
to allow it."

"Sometimes I try," she answered, amused
at his vehemence, " but it is not much use,
I am always falling back ; I'm afraid I'm
not much like other people," with a soft
little fluttering sigh.

"No," said Hugh, regarding her with a
wealth of love light in his eyes; " I don't
think you are."

"Why? why not ? Do you notice anything
particular about me?" She spoke
with an unaccountable and ill-disguised
agitation, and watched his face eagerly for
his answer,

"You would be angry," he answered,
softly, "if I were to tell you how and why
I think you are different from any other
woman I have seen."

They had left the beach by this time,
turned their backs upon the sea, and were

VOL. I. 8

now winding their way upwards through a
straggling, wooded path, rich in the fragrance
of wild spring-flowers. As Hugh finished
speaking, his voice unconsciously lowered
almost to a whisper, Mr. Fleming turned
round and said :

*ewe are now close at home  see, the
Manor House, as I dare say you know, lies
just behind that clump of trees. You are a
long way from Penally, Mr. Spencer, and,
as you have accompanied us so far, you
might as well give us the pleasure of your
company at luncheon."

Hugh was nothing loth to accept the invitation,
especially as he fancied Clarice
.smiled approvingly when it was given; so
the trio progressed upward and onward
through the sweet-scented woods, now and
then scrambling through the briars and
.brambles that crowded their path; sometimes
the holly thrust its stiff, prickly arms

in their way ; the men, in their strong garments,
struggled through well enough, but
Clarice was occasionally caught in the
prickly toils, and Hugh had the bliss of extricating
her ; now it was her dress, then her
parasol, or a fluttering ribbon. She laughed
and apologized for the trouble she gave him,
for sometimes he actually had to go down
on his knees, and even then, with all his
care, could not help an ugly rent or two.

* This is the first time we have taken This
short cut," she said, * and I don't think we
shall take it again, for it is beset with
difficulties."

'delightful difficulties!" exclaimed the
ardently animated Hugh. '' I wouldn't
have the road smoother if I could."

'' Short cuts in the road," said Mr.
Fleming, '' are like short cuts to fortune or
to fame, generally more or less tangled, and
seldom satisfactory in the end."

They soon reached the old grey Manor
House, enclosed by the low stone wall and
surrounded by its wilderness of a garden.
As they passed into the domain, Mr.
Fleming apologized for the disorder of the
grounds, saying :

'* We have not had time to get things in
order yet. The place has been so long deserted
and neglected, it will be some time
before we can get the ground cleared and
the garden arranged as it should be : beautiful
flowers, like other beautiful things,
must have time to grow."

'I like it best as it is," exclaimed Clarice;
*' a really artistically laid out garden gives
me no pleasure at all. I like to see fruits
and flowers, shrubs, sweet herbs, and evergreens
growing all together. I mean to
have a garden of wild flowers, and manage
it all myself."

*aye, aye," said Mr. Fleming, 'that is

all very well to talk about, we shall have
you going in for cultivating Mareschal Noel
roses before we've done."

** A fig for Mareschal Niels! " she answered;
a wild white rose or a spray of honeysuckle
is far lovelier in my eyes."

* Or perhaps a gooseberry bush or red
currant tree," suggested Hugh, laughing.

** A red currant tree, clothed with its rich,
transparent fruit, is a very beautiful object,"
said Clarice, 'only it is cheap and useful,
and grows in the poorest labourer's garden 
that's why people think nothing of it. If it
was grown under glass and needed nursing
like a sick baby, all the world would rave
about it."

*' Here we are at home," exclaimed Mr.
Fleming, as they crossed the threshold, once
more shaking hands with Hugh. *' Welcome
to the Manor House, though I dare say you
are no stranger, and could guide me over

the place perhaps better than I can guide
you."

'' No," answered Hugh ; '' we have rarely
visited at the Manor House  it has always
been difficult to find a tenant for it. You
see it is so lonely, so far from everything."

' That's exactly why we like it, father,
and I," said Clarice, nestling fondly to the
old man's side.

'but your brother may find it dull,"
suggested the artful Hugh.

''My brother! Oh! Cousin Jack, you
mean," rejoined Clarice; 'but he comes
and goes as he likes  he seldom stays
long."

Bouncer, with erect head, marched
solemnly into the house after them, as
though it was his unquestioned right to do
so, while Crib, poor, ragged, disreputable
Crib, was relegated to the stable ! This
was almost more than canine nature could

stand, but obedience was a law, and with a
depressed, vicious look in his eyes, and limp,
drooping tail. Crib dragged himself after the
good natured groom, who snapped his fingers,
whistled, and tried to make Crib lively and
frisky as a dog should be ; but his low,
guttural accent sounded like an irritating
insult to Crib, who bared his teeth, prepared
for war, and chased the well-intentioned
groom from the spot.

Now, in Bouncer's opinion it was all very
well for Hugh Spencer to join their party
in the open air, but to be received in the
house as a guest was quite another affair,
and he at once showed signs of anxiety, if
not suspicion. He marched up to Hugh ina
grand, imperial way, pricked up his ears,
and slowly inspected him from all points,
sniffing round him till he was satisfied, and
finally signified his approval by laying his
huge head on Hugh's knees, and fixed his

soft brown eyes upon him as much as to say,
"I thmk you're all right  I hope you're not
deceiving us."

' Bouncer, luncheon!" exclaimed Clarice.

Upon which he marched out of the room,
stationed himself at a certain point in the
hall, and with his tail beat the Chinese
gong, informing the household of the fact
that * luncheon was served."

* Ready, Bouncer!" then said Clarice.
As she spoke the huge beast raised himself
on his hind legs, laid one paw on his
mistress's arm and thus escorted her into
the dining-room.

"Isn't he a clever beast ? " she exclaimed,
regarding him proudly as, having performed
his duties, he stationed himself beside her
for his reward.

The table was laid for four, but only the
trio sat down. Seeing Hugh glance at the
vacant chair, Clarice smiled.

*' That's Cousin Jack's place, we never
wait for him, and he is never punctual."

The social meal had not progressed very
far, and the stream of conversation was
flowing in a pleasant, easy fashion, when
 Cousin Jack " entered the room. He was
a man older than Hugh Spencer by some
years, taller, and of stouter build, with a
dark, handsome face, and large, luminous
eyes ; his curly beard and moustache veiled
a mouth that was somewhat stern until it
smiled ; he looked rather worn and haggard,
as though he had seen the world and knew
all about it, and had threaded many mazy
mysteries in the house of life, while lighthearted,
blue-eyed Hugh stood only on the
threshold.

 My nephew, Mr. Swayne," said the
host, presenting him to his guest. Thus it
happened that when Mrs. and Miss Spencer
made their formal visit to the Manor House,

to their amazement they found Hugh strolling
about the garden smoking a cigarette
with Jack Swayne, and evidently on the
friendliest terms with the family.

A FISHING Excursion.

Tl tes. and Miss Spencer paid quite a long
-'-'J- visit to the Manor House, but in
spite of their mutual manoeuvring  and
Miriam was quite as much an adept at that
as her mother  they could not guide the conversation
according to their desires. They
had sallied forth with their keen instincts
prepared for " smelling a rat," and having
it out of its hole, tail and all ; but somehow
they lost the scent. They knew it was
lurking somewhere, they felt it in the atmosphere
; but not a shadow, not a ghost
of it appeared in sight.

Led by their great captain, curiosity, they
skirmished about the debatable land, attacking
the enemy on all sides, with such
weapons as common decency permitted ;
but their attacks were parried always with
such perfect good breeding, that their poor
little arrows fell away blunted from contact
with the polished surface. They were
always answered, but never satisfied. Both
mother and daughter pitched upon Clarice
as the one of the family most likely to
gratify their curiosity, if they could only
find themselves alone with her ; but it was
impossible to put her under the fire of
examination, or cross-examination, in the
presence of the whole party. So they
changed their tactics, and used their moral
picklock in another part of the mental
machinery, but in a very innocent, natural
sort of way. Mrs. Spencer put Mr. Fleming
in such a position that he could not avoid

volunteering to show his study, his geological
and entomological specimens ; and
Miriam was seized with a violent desire to
inspect the grounds  so she and Clarice
sauntered forth accordingly. Miriam gave
Clarice's hand a little, tender, schoolgirl
squeeze as she said :

' We were so glad to hear that the Manor
House was let at last. We began to despair
of ever having any neighbours here."

' Did you ? " said Clarice, seeing she was
expected to say something, and not knowing
what else to say.

'You see people don't generally care to
live in such an out-of-the-way place," added
Miriam.

*ewe like it for that very reason," said
Clarice.

*' Oh ! I dare say you will find it all very
well for a time," rejoined Miriam, 'just
while the novelty lasts ; and we shall do all
we can to make it pleasant for you."

*you are very kind," answered Clarice;
' but I hope you will not trouble yourselves
too much about us. We are always very
happy together, father and I."

 When we saw you in church yesterday,
we all took such a fancy to you. I knew
we should get good friends, and soon know
all about one another."

<< Why should we care to know all about
one another ? " said Clarice. ' I know some
people who have grown to be very dear
friends, yet they know nothing of each other
except their names, and they would not
think it delicate to inquire."

Oh! that's all nonsense!" exclaimed
Miriam. ' Of course we like to know something
of people before we open our hearts to
them."

'why should you want to open your
hearts ? " said Clarice, turning on her a
look of surprise. ' I don't see the necessity ;

but," she added with a soft laugh, *' you
talk of opening hearts as though it were a
mechanical process like opening oysters."

Miriam laughed too, and began to talk of
sentiments and sympathies, in a way that
seemed rather romantic and rather unintelligible
to Clarice ; and then proceeded to
tell her scraps of gossip about the neighbourhood,
and finally sailed on to the ocean
of her own life, told her all there was to tell,
and invented a little more, importing a little
masculine element into it, and using it as a
kind of bait to fling into the clear crystal of
Clarice's mind and fish up any scrap of
mystery that might laj therein concealed.
Surely her frank open-heartiness must
penetrate the reserve of her companion, and
force her to speak a little of her own surroundings
; but her confidential murmuring
had quite a contrary effect. Clarice listened
indifferently to Miriam's sentimental chatter.

How could she feel interested in the gossip
of a strange neighbourhood, or the tender
trivialities which made up the sum of
Miriam's life ? All this was nothing to her.
She only felt a vague wonder that people
could talk to her of such things in the very-first
hour of their meeting. She made no
remark, asked no questions, and therefore
gave no help to Miriam's confidential communications.
However, she got to the end
of them, and, giving Clarice another tender
little squeeze, she said :

 Now you know everything about me.
Let us start fair, and tell me everything
about yourself! "

Now Clarice was prepared to be agreeable
to her new acquaintance, but it was simply
impossible for one of her refined, reticent
nature to follow Miriam's example and give
a biographical account of herself and her
surroundings to one who a few short hours

ago was a stranger. She hardly knew how
to answer Miriam's gushing appeal, and
after a rather awkward momentary pause 

I should be very happy," she said, *sto
tell you anything that I thought would interest
you, but really I have nothing particular
to tell."

'* What, not about that handsome cousin
of yours ! " exclaimed Miriam, with arch
facetiousness ; * and how very handsome he
is!"

"Is he ? " observed Clarice, listlessly.

Of course he is ; don't you think so ? "

'' I don't know. I have never thought
about his looks at all."

I suppose you are too fond of him to
care whether he is handsome or not," said
Miriam, tentatively.

I suppose so," answered Clarice. *' You
see we have been used to one another all
our lives."

VOL. I. 9

There was no blushing or simpering consciousness
in Clarice's manner ; she spoke
with perfectly simple unreserve. * You are
either very stupid or very sly," thought
Miriam, regarding her suspiciously in respect
to that ' handsome cousin."

*' And you have no chaperon, no female
relative at all? " said Miriam, inquisitively.

' Chaperon ! no," exclaimed Clarice, impatiently.
' ' What could I want with a
chaperon? "

 It seems so strange for a girl like you
to be living with only a  male cousin and
step-father," said Miriam.

'' Step-father! " echoed Clarice, looking fora
moment puzzled.  Ah ! I forgot that he
is only my step-father," she added with a
glowing face, ' for he is all the world to me
he's father and mother and all."

'you are not in mourning," observed
Miriam, hesitatingly.  Is it  is it very
long since you lost your mother ? "

*eyes, some years," answered Chalices
slowly, as though the words were
drawn from her with a pair of moral pincers

Miriam pressed her hand and walked on
in sympathetic silence for a moment, then
said softly :

*' It must be a terrible thing to lose one's
mother, and especially sad to be left with
only male relations. We girls want the
companionship and sympathy of our own
sex. Don't you think so ? "

'' I hardly know," said Clarice ; " for thyself,
I only care for the sympathy and companionship
of those I love. Strangers tire
me so."

' How differently I feel about that !" exclaimed
Miriam. " I love strangers. The
very sight of a strange face is delightful. It
sets one wondering, and brings a little excitement
into one's life. You see in a quiet
place like this one soon knows everybody,

and everything about everybody ; but I
suppose you have never settled down in a
place like this before ? "

** Oh, yes ! " replied Clarice. * We lived
for some years in the wildest part of Austria,
quite among the mountains. Since then we
have travelled a great deal."

* In England ? "

* Oh ! everywhere," said Clarice. *ewe
have been to Australia. I was ordered to
take the voyage for my health. The doctors
said a long voyage would do me good, for
my health was quite broken down ; " and as
she spoke she looked dreamily over the sea.

' Some sudden shock, I suppose ! " exclaimed
Miriam eagerly, thinking she had
found a clue to something at last.

** Why should you suppose any such
thing ? " exclaimed Clarice ; the dreamy
light left her eyes as she glanced sharply at
Miriam's face.

*' Oh ! I beg your pardon, but I thought
that perhaps your mother had met with
some "

*' What does it matter ? " interrupted
Clarice quickly, " and please don't talk of
mamma at all  I dislike to hear strangers
speak of her."

For once Miriam was nonplussed, and
before she could gather her forces for a
reply, the perfume of a cigar greeted their
nostrils, and in another moment the two
young men, issuing from a tangled side path
of the wilderness, stood before them ; and
the quartette strolled on together. Chance
arranged for them to their mutual satisfaction
; for they soon drifted into pairs, and
Clarice found herself Ute-d-Ute with Hugh
Spencer, while Miriam was lifted into the
seventh heaven by being the sole recipient
of Mr. Swayne's attentions for the full space
of half an hour, for it was even such a

length of time that they wandered about the
wilderness of a garden and in the orchard,
under the full blossoming trees, with the
sunlight glinting through, casting fantastic
fluttering shadows for their feefc to tread
upon.

Mr. Swayne was not a man to 'make
conversation " for ladies generally ; he liked
to be amused himself, and was sparsely
supplied with that special kind of small talk
about nothing which goes to make a '' delightful
man " in the eyes of commonplace
young ladies. He had seen a great deal of
the world, and was rather tired of it. He
was ready to welcome anything that looked
like a novelty, either in human nature or
anything else. Miss Spencer was rather a
novelty to him ; her small vanities and
perfect self-esteem lay upon the surface,
those who ran might read them at the first
glance ; but the feminine character must be

made up of other things besides these ; so,
having nothing better to do for the time
being, 'cousin Jack" set himself to find
out some of the hidden mysteries which
made up the human machine beside him.

She was pleasant enough to look at, tall,
fair complexioned, with big blue eyes, that
well, lost some of their dull stupidity now,
and brightened into smiles, for it is in reality
the eyes that smile the sweetest ; the movement
of the lips is a mere muscular accompaniment.
How ghastly it is to sSe a
smile upon the lips, while the eyes are cold
and unsympathetic ! As a rule Miriam's well-shaped
eyes expressed nothing  they had
nothing to express ; but to-day they seemed
to have found something, as she walked
beside this tall, handsome stranger ; and
now and then as she glanced up in his dark
high-bred face, she thought, with a tremulous
fluttering at her heart, '* How different he

is to any other man I have ever seen!"
But then she had not seen many other men,
her view having been restricted to the mankind
of Penally, who were generally middle-aged,
generally married, and could in noway
compare with this elegant being, who
seemed to bring the atmosphere of Belgravia
into this quiet, out-of-the-way Cornish village.
He made some remark about the rugged
beauty of the Cornish coast; she answered 

'' Yes, we have some very fine scenery all
round Penally, if we have no other attraction;
the more you know of the neighbourhood,
the better you will like it  and in about a
fortnight the Bishop of Truro is coming to
preach in our church."

'' So sorry I shall not be able to benefit
by the Bishop's ministrations," said Mr.
Swayne, gravely. ''I return to town next
week, and may not be down again till
autumn."

This speech, simple as it was, had a double
effect on Miriam ; it gratified her in one
way, for if there had really been anything,
as she had first suspected, between him and
his Cousin Clarice, he would not have spoken
of going away for months in that regretful
way ; and at the same time she was disappointed,
for from the first transitory
glimpse of him in church yesterday she had
looked forward to  well, she could hardly
say what ; but so many nameless possibilities
floated through her mind, she could not,
even to herself, explain them exactly. He
would have been such an acquisition to the
neighbourhood, and quite a sensation at
the lawn tennis parties ! for that was the
mildest excitement the Penallyites indulged
in ; even the Rectory folk tolerated tea and
tennis, not having yet discovered the seeds
of depravity therein.

It is a pity you are going away so soon,"

she observed, 'Sve have a lawn tennis
party at the Rectory every week in summertime,
and I think you would find them
pleasant."

He was sure he should find everything
at the Rectory pleasant.

But lawn tennis!" he exclaimed, 'you
don't mean to say that you play ' lawn
tennis ' here? "

*' Why not?" exclaimed Miriam, bristling
up ; ' do you think we are heathens because
we happen to live out of the world ? "

' I don't know that lawn tennis is a lofty
mark of Christianity," he replied, gravely ;
my wonder was that in the midst of this
magnificent scenery, with this wild, picturesque
country to ramble about, and all
the delicious nooks and corners to explore,
you should stoop to such frivolity."

''Ah!" said Miriam, mollified. "One
likes a change, you know, and when one

has always been surrounded by magnificent
scenery, one doesn't care for it so much."

 Then there's the sea  the grand, glorious
old sea ! You don't mean to say you don't
care about that ? "

 No-o," answered Miriam,  I enjoy
bathing, but one can't bathe all the year
round, you know." She spoke simply, not
at all conscious that she was saying anything
that could shock a real lover of the
** great sweet mother."

The shock his mind received did hot
reveal itself on the surface, he only said 

** Ah, if you want to appreciate the sea
you should go on a yachting excursion. I
am never so happy as when I am aboard my
yacht; I've got a little beauty, and when
she gets the wind in her teeth, and tries to
fight her way and buffet the waves, she's
like a plucky human creature at work ; ita
sight to be proud of, I can tell you ; perhaps

I may bring her round here in the
autumn, and who knows but I may tempt
you and your family party to go for a short
cruise in her ! "

' Can she go far ? I mean do you confine
your cruise to very short journeys ? "

' She is two hundred tons, and I can sail
her across the Atlantic if I please," he
answered, proudly. '' When you've once
been aboard her, you won't rest content till
you have your foot upon her deck again."

A glow of unmistakable delight suffused
Miriam's pale cheeks at the suggestion ; the
bare possibility of such a treat would be
something to look forward to through the
long summer days, for as a rule the months,
weeks, and seasons rolled on in a dull,
monotonous round. Penally kept the even
tenor of its ways, stirred by the events of
the outer world ; even the excitements of a
birth, death, or marriage was rare in the

sparsely populated neighbourhood ; no flash
of summer glory lighted the horizon of their
grey, colourless lives, no feverish wavering
between hopes and fears stirred the current
of their blood. They tramped the daily
round of duties with unswerving footsteps ;
the lovely land and sea was as familiar to
them as their own faces, and those who are
held always in the warm, beautiful embrace
of nature will sometimes be disposed to tear
themselves from her sheltering arms, and
plunge into the turmoil of troublous life,
merely for a change. And how gladly would
the toil-worn, weary worded men sink into
the peaceful paradise of this out-of-the-way
Cornish village ! It was all satisfactory
enough for the elder part of the community,
but the young people had a vague longing
for some excitement rising either from within
or without, which their familiar surroundings
did not supply.  .

In spite of the repressive narrowness of
her bringing up, the impulse of young human
nature, warm and strong, were hidden away
deep down in Miriam Spencer's heart, but
they were frozen over by the icy chilness of
the social atmosphere. She was told daily
that her life was a blessed one, for which she
should kneel down night and morning ingratitude
to God, and she had tried to
believe it ; but now she seemed to have a
sudden taste of the sweet savour it needed.
A few glances from this man's magnetic
eyes, a few pleasantly spoken  by no means
important  words from his lips, had stirred
her sleeping spirit, and sent a thrill of
melody through her hitherto tuneless life.
As the stroke of Moses' staff caused a rush
of water from the solid rock, so she was
ready to pour forth the treasures of her heart
at this stranger's touch.

As they two walked on side by side, she

felt as though by some occult process she
had been lifted off the earth and trod on
air, and he  well, he regarded her with
kindly eyes enough ; she was evidently well
pleased with his society ; he thought she
** was a nice little thing," and that was all.
A nice little thing ! The last epithet anyone
else would have applied to the stately
Miss Spencer.

Before the visitors departed, that social
abomination, four o'clock tea, was served,
and after arrangements had been made for a
future meeting, they parted with cordial
hand-shaking all round, and Hugh was
compelled reluctantly to escort his female
relatives home.

They were no sooner out of earshot,
when, as was quite natural, they commenced
discussing the family. Mrs.
Spencer was evidently well satisfied with
her visit. She thought Mr. Flaming was

a delightful old gentleman, quite a man of
the world, so very polite too ! He knew
how to talk to a lady ; he had been almost
confidential with her ; they had talked over
certain matters which she did not care to
repeat ; she hoped as a Christian she might
be trusted. Ah ! yes, and he had taken her
into his sanctum, showed her his collection
of pickled frogs, centipedes, impaled bluebottles,
butterflies, and other nasty things.
There was no harm in it, of course, but intime
she hoped to impress him with a
stronger sense of his Christian duties ;
already he had promised to subscribe to
the schools and to give a handsome
donation towards the new organ  which
showed they had a certain amount of
proper feeling. Of course the trail of the
serpent was hidden away somewhere, but
she hadn't looked for it, and as things
looked fair and pleasant on the surface 

well, lie was charitable and hoped for the
best  at any rate, when they discovered the
sin it would be time enough to run a tilt at
the sinner. Perhaps she reflected that
the running down of gilded sinners would
be surrounded with many difficulties, quite
different from the poor, half-starved sinners
she was accustomed to run to earth.

Her son and daughter let the current of
her talk flow uninterruptedly ; when she
was tired, she looked to them for their
opinion. If they had been left to themselves
they would rather have walked on,
shrouded in silence and the pleasant sunshine
; they had each their own unuttered
secret, and their hearts were beating in
tune to the song without words, such as
most human hearts have sung at least once
in a lifetime ; but they felt bound to
exercise their conversational powers to a
slight degree. Hugh thought he knew

VOL. I. 10

more of the family than anybody else, and
voted ' Mr. Fleming a regular trump."

** You had fine romantic ideas of Mademoiselle
Clarice yesterday," said Miriam;
* what do you think of her now that you
have actually spoken to her ? "

* Just as I thought before," he answered,
' and rather more so." After which ambiguous
speech he commenced whistling,
and Miriam boldly plumped out her
opinion.

Well, she is certainly very nice ; I can
quite understand some people thinking her
very pretty, too ; but there is something very
odd about her, poor thing. I don't mean
anything bad, only mysterious  a family
mystery, perhaps. I did not get on very
well with her."

' You seemed to get on better with that
long-legged cousin. ' '

He took pains to get on with me," she

answered ; " I think he is delightful ; there's,
something so lordly and grand about him.
With what an air he takes off his hat ! and
his clothes fit him so beautifully, too !"
There's a good deal in clothes  I think an
ill-dressed man is a horror  but Mr Swayne
well, there's something distinguished and
artistic even in the arrangement of his
necktie."

** A tailor's model would evidently be the
acme of your admiration, my dear," said
Hugh, *but I am not going to pronounce
any opinion till I know him better; at
present he seems to me rather a supercilious
sort of prig."

A GLIMPSE OF THE SKELETON.

THE Manor House was scarcely cleared
from its clerical visitors when another
living inundation swept over the household,
for the female Laurence family arrived ina
body. The family consisted of Mrs.
Laurence and her three daughters, all of a
very different type to the Rectory folk.
They were well-to-do, kindly people, satisfied
with themselves, and generally satisfied
with the world around them. They
thought it was a very good world to live

in, and if people were not happy it was
their own fault, they must be either weak
or wicked ; if people would only look after
their digestion, take plenty of exercise, and
keep out of debt, they might make this
world a perfect paradise. This was easy
enough for them to do, for they had plenty
of money ; all the good things of this Hfe
lay within their grasp  they were favourites
of fortune themselves, and believed that
everybody else might stand on the same
breezy heights if they gave the right turn
to the wheel ; if they failed it was their own
fault  failure or success came where they
were most deserved, and there was an end
of it. However, they were kind-hearted,
gossipy folk in the main. Mrs. Laurence
was a London banker's daughter, had been
brought up at a fashionable boarding-school,
and lived in London till she married. As
was perhaps natural, she gave herself a few

airs on that account. She was regarded
by her neighbours, the Penallyites, as
'* quite a superior kind of person;" she
knew a little of everything, from mathematics
to mince pies, and had made
excursions into the land of literature,
plunged into the mysteries of spiritualism,
and clung to the skirts of occultism with
the tenacious vigour of an uncomprehending
apostle.

This happy family was ready to take
Clarice to its heart upon the spot ; and,
unanimous in their admiration of her
beauty, regarding her as a fair, fragile
flower, needing only feminine support and
feminine companionship to make her perfect,
they considered that a mere masculine
household must be uncongenial, if not
positively harmful, to so young and delicate
a piece of womankind.

Clarice had been left to receive her

visitors alone, for on the first appearance
of the advancing party Jack Swayne had
leaped out of the window and disappeared
into the wilderness, and Mr. Fleming had
retreated to his study, considering that he
had contributed his quantum towards the
entertainment of visitors for one day, and
it was not incumbent upon him to reappear
upon the scene. The Laurencess brought
with them a fresh breezy atmosphere ; there
was no * peeking and harking," no undue
inquisitorial pressure brought to bear upon
the conversation ; if they were curious  and
no doubt they shared the general curiosity
they kept it within bounds, and made no
outward expression of it. Their manner
was genuine and friendly ; they were evidently
bent on establishing pleasant relations
with the Manor House folk.

' I wish we were nearer neighbours, my
dear," said Mrs. Laurence, 'but I hope we

shall contrive to see a good deal of you as
it is."

' It is only two miles to Penally," said
Caroline, the eldest daughter,  and ours is
the first house you come to quite this end
of the village."

''I can V7alk two miles very well," said
Clarice, smiling ; "we went to church
yesterday, and I walked both ways. I have
been used to a great deal of exercise."

'then we shall get on first-rate,"
exclaimed Stella, briskly. '' Mamma, perhaps
Miss Lemaire will come over and
lunch tomorrow, and I will row her home
if she likes in the afternoon. When the
sea is calm it is quite lovely; you know I
keep close to the shore."

'' Stella always volunteers to row everybody
everywhere," laughed her sister. ''If
she can only entice people into her boat
she's happy."

' Don't go if you're afraid of a wetting ;
she upset Miriam Spencer near the cove
the other day."

"You're never tired of remembering
that," said Stella, tartly; "but it was her
own fault  she wouldn't sit still. It is
always somebody's fault when there's an
accident with a boat."

I suppose you have not yet made the
acquaintance of the Hector's family?" observed
Mrs. Laurence, interrogatively.

Yes, they were here half an hour ag,"
answered Clarice.

Humph ! "  there was something peculiarly
expressive in Mrs. Laurence's humph
" well, I don't think you'd get on very well
with them ; nobody does. They are too
self-righteous to please me; they mean well,
but they take hold of everything at the
wrong end. Mr. Spencer has a way of
talking at people from the pulpit which is

very hurtful to sensitive natures. It would
be all very well if he confined himself to
reproving the poor ; they rather like it, and
feel honoured that even their faults should
attract public notice ; but he once had the
bad taste to attack me ! "

* He laid the lash on very lightly,
mamma," rejoined Miss Laurence, ' and
after all it was not really thou he attacked,
so much as the principles of spiritualism."

*' He knew that I advocated those principles,
and had no right to hold them up to
public condemnation," said Mrs. Laurence,
adding, * but people get so narrow in the
country ; they prefer groping along in the
old darkness to opening their eyes to a new
light. Now, I have lived in the great
world, and take larger views. I am
always ready to discuss and investigate
any new theory or question that may rise
up, no matter whether it be political,
scientific, or spiritualistic."

* But you are rather more given to the
latter, mamma."

** Because I can easily pick up the grains
of truth and separate them from the chaff
of imagination. Do you go in for that sort
of thing, Miss Lemaire ? "

' For what sort of thing ? " inquired the
slightly bewildered Clarice.

** For the spiritualistic science, for a
science it is fast becoming."

*'I don't know anything about it,"
answered Clarice. 

*'No? well I am surprised at that," said
Mrs. Laurence, for I should say you
have very strong mediumistic qualities
yourself."

 Please don't say that ! " said Clarice,
shrinking as though she had received a
blow ; *' if I thought I had them," she
added, laughing rather hysterically, *' I
should be inclined to undergo a surgical

operation and have them cut out with a
knife."

' Ah, my dear, if a surgeon's knife could
perform operations on the mind as well as
on the body I fancy we might all give him
some little work to do ; they say we are all
mad on one subject or another."

The girls laughed, and each expatiated
on her own particular mania, which was all
.harmless enough, and the conversation
rippled away from grave subjects and lost
itself in a maze of pleasant chit-chat or
small talk, which is current in all societies,
both great and small, and flows on its
sparkling way without scandal or deleterious
gossip, brightening and enlivening
the passing hour, and when it dies out
leaves the ashes of nobody's reputation behind
it.

They parted, each mutually pleased with
the other, Clarice promising to spend a long
day at the Firs on the earliest opportunity.

'' Tired, my little girl ? " said Mr. Fleming,
coming into the room soon after their
departure.

*' Not very," she answered ; " though it is
rather alarming, isn't it  seven visitors in
one day? These Laurencess seem rather
nice ; I like them better than the Eectory
people  except, perhaps, Mr. Spencer, the
young one I mean."

 I hope you will get up a little pleasant
intimacy with your neighbours, my dear
Clarice," said Mr. Fleming; ' I am store
the companionship of people of your own
age will be good for you."

 No companionship of anybody ever can
be so good for me as yours," she answered,
clasping her hands round his arm and laying
her head caressingly upon his shoulder,
' darling dad, we are always so happy together,
you and I."

' Make it a trio," he added, looking

scrutinizingly ou her face; "won't you admit
Jack into the circle ? ' ' There was a
slight knitting of the brows, and a troubled
look came into her eyes, but she answered
nothing. " Why are you so perverse, my
child? You and Jack used to be such
friends, and now that it would be well you
should be drawn closer together you fling
yourselves wider apart."

Things are different now," she answered,
pettishly ; '' Jack is getting troublesome 
and  ah !  when is he going away ? When
shall we two be left alone together ? Jack
is like the fifth wheel to a coach ; we don't
get along so well as we used to."

' His going or staying depends very much
on you, Clarice," he answered, gravely.
You are both very dear to me, and you
know which way my wishes run."

'' I know, I know ! " with signs of some
little irritation ; " but they run in the wrong

direction, darling dad," she added, coaxingly.
If you would only see, if you would only
understand, that what you wish can never,
never be, things would settle back in the
old way, and we should be so much
happier."

'when the unity of things is once disturbed
and broken up they never settle
back into the old ways  it is against nature
that they should."

'rand it is against my nature that they
should grow into a new," said Clarice; "*I
wish I could make you sure of that."

Is it really so impossible, Clarice ? "

Quite," she answered, emphatically.

The old man sighed.

Well, my child," he said, " I should not
wish to force your inclination, but you don't
quite realize the risk you run. Were things
to come to the push, I have no authority,
no power, to save you. In Jack's custody,

with Jdm as your husband and legal protector,
you would be safe."

*' I am safe now," she answered, in a low
voice; you have said that you would kill
me rather than let me fall into his hands,
and I know you would keep your word."

Child, you think I should have courage
enough for that!" he said, in a tender,
melancholy tone.

'I Jcnota you would," she answered, like
one well assured of a fact.

*swell, well," said he,  I pray God no
such necessity will ever come ! If you are
really decided, I had perhaps better speak
to Jack, and put him out of suspense."

I think not," she answered. ''I will
take the first opportunity and speak to him
myself."

'best make the opportunity and speak
at once ; when a disagreeable thing has got
to be done, there is no use in delaying it ;

as there is no chance for him there is no use
in his lingering here  he had better go away
at once," the old man ended, with a sigh.

Clarice flung her arms round his neck,
and her eyes overflowed with tears as she
exclaimed, with much emotion :

' Oh, why are you so good, so patient
with me ? I wish I had never been born,
to bring so much trouble to everybody !
Now poor Jack  whom you love, your own
sister's son  is to be exiled from his home,
on my account ! Father dear ! " she added,
after a few moments' silence, blinking away
her tears, 'for your sake I would marry
him if I could ; but I dare not. I am
afraid  afraid of myself. I think it would
be a crime to marry."

'' My own child," he answered, fondly
laying his hand upon her golden head, 'I
speak only for your own good now, and altogether
without any reference to Jack ; but

VOL. I. 11

I honestly tliiuk, indeed, I am convinced,
that if you were once married, once in the
safe keeping of a good man's love, all these
strange morbid fancies that afflict you
would vanish. In the wholesome exercise
of your natural affections, in the opening of
a new life, new ties, new scenes, new associations
and surroundings, the clouds which
now warp and sadden your beautiful nature
would fade away, and leave you to live your
life as bright and happy as God made
it."

'' I don't believe God had anything to do
with my life," she answered, desperately;
*' how could He, when I was born in such a
dreadful place?" She shuddered violently
as she added, ' Sometimes I think I shall
die in it."

*' Hush, hush ! " he answered, soothingly,
** you must not give way to such thoughts
as these."

' I don't give way," she answered, ''I
have nothing to do with them, they take
hold of me  my heart, my brain, my limbs,
and weigh me down, and darken the whole
world, so that I hardly know whether the
sun shines or not  but one can't speak of
those things, one can only feel. Perhaps if
I could get "

The last words trailed unconsciously,
almost inaudibly, from her lips, her arms
relaxed their hold and fell nerveless by her
side, and she lay in his arms as unconscious
and white as one dead. He did not seem
alarmed at this sudden seizure ; he carried
her to the sofa, arranged the cushions for
her head, and laid her gently down, and sat
beside her, watching, and chafing her hands
with a slow, caressing motion. He called
for no assistance, he needed none, he knew
there was nothing to be done but wait
patiently her return to life. The window

was Open, and the sweet fresh air blew m
from the breezy sea, far away in the dim
horizon the great red sun was sinking slowly
into the ocean, its last level rays striking
across the water, touching the bowed grey
head of the man, and resting on the girl's
unconscious face like a finger of light.

Not very long had things remained in
this condition when there was a loud ring
at the bell, and in another moment a quick
step sounded in the hall, and Dr. Parker
was shown into the room. His advent just
at that moment was specially annoying and
vexatious to Mr. Fleming ; but it could not
he helped, and there was no one to blame
for it ; that was the usual room for the reception
of visitors, and the servants had not
'been made aware of their young mistress's
condition. This was not the Doctor's first
visit to the Manor House, or he would have
timed it more decorously; he had made

Mr. Fleming's acquaintance some days previously,
and being interested in his collection
of natural curiosities, had enjoyed a most
congenial interview, and on parting had
promised to bring some chemicals of which
he was in need to carry on a special experiment
; being in the neighbourhood, he had
brought them at, what seemed to him, a
most opportune time.

His eye rested at once on the prostrate'
figure of the girl; a momentary glance of
recognition was exchanged between himself
and Mr. Fleming, as he stepped briskly forward,
exclaiming, with professional brevity :

 Can I be of any use ? "

'* Thanks; I think not," replied Mr.
Fleming, extending his unoccupied hand to
the Doctor's genial clasp. " She will be
better presently ; it is only a little nervous
exhaustion  that is all."

'' All ! humph ! " exclaimed Dr. Parkes ;

** poor little girl ! Is she liable to these
seizures ? "

*' No-o  not exactly liable," replied Mr.
Fleming, slightly hesitating; 'but she is
peculiarly constituted. I have seen her so
before. There is really no cause for alarm,"
he added, rather sharply, as though irritated
by the grave expression of the Doctor's face.
'' She vill be all right presently  indeed,
quite herself."

Dr. Parkes could not help seeing that he
was considered rather de trop his unexpected
presence slightly embarrassing to
Mr. Fleming, and his professional services
by no means desired. He scrutinized the
white young face with much interest, blended
with sincere compassion, he saw at a glance
that it was no mere fainting fit  but just
such a case as he would dearly like to lay
hold on, watch over, and investigate withall
his professional ability ; but he could

not infringe etiquette so far as to press his
services unasked, especially as the investigation
of the case might prove rather interesting
from a pathological point of view than
of benefit to the patient. He laid his hand
lightly on Mr. Fleming's arm as he said
sympathetically :

' My dear sir, you know what pleasure
it would give me to be of any service to
you, directly or indirectly, professionally or
otherwise. At any time," he added, casting
a lingering look on the unconscious girl, '' I
shall be glad to advise you as a friend  as
as well as a physician."

Of that I feel sure, and I thank you,"
answered Mr. Fleming, *rand if at any time
I find the necessity arise, I shall not scruple
to avail myself of your kindness. At present
I am quite equal to the occasion."

Then perhaps I had better leave you,"
said Dr. Parkes, hoping he would say

'* stay ; " but he did not; he said quickly,
Yes, I think perhaps that would be best
when she recovers consciousness she
might be alarmed at the presence of a
stranger."

Dr. Parkes accordingly took his leave
and went home, and said nothing whatever
about his visit. He kept his thoughts and
suspicions to himself. He fancied he had
caught a glimpse of the ghost of the Manor
House, but, like many mental speculators,
he took the shadow for the substance, and
sent his imagination travelling on the wrong-track
altogether.

He had not been very long gone when
Clarice stirred, the colour came slowly back
to her face, the old expression came back
to it. She opened her eyes and picked up
the thread of the conversation precisely
where it had left off, continuing, without
even repeating the last words, as though

the phrase had never been broken,  get
away from myself for a Httle while, and not
only feel but be somebody else. I should
come back and take possession of my old
body, and begin a new life in a new spirit.
Darling dad," she exclaimed, after a momentary
pause, ' every step I take, everyday
of my life, by daylight or by starlight,
I stand still and watch and listen  my
spirit does, I mean  for I feel I am going
forward to meet something  something
weird and gruesome is coming steadily forward,
coming slowly day by day to meet
me. I can't get away from it  I can't hide
from it. If I were to die, I believe it would
prevent my getting into my grave ! "

'' You must fight against these fancies,"
exclaimed Mr. Fleming, rather sternly for
him ; he had exhausted his arguments long
ago, he could not combat things he did not
understand. Against the air-drawn dagger

SO menacing, so real, to the one diseased
mind  who can draw the sword ? The
things we fear are always greater than those
we suffer; whereas reason and commonsense
can fight against and overcome real
tangible difficulties  they fail when they
are hurled against phantoms in the air.
Mr. Fleming sometimes got impatient with
his darling, impatient because he could not
comprehend, could not follow the somewhat
sombre, intricate mazes of her mind wherein
she herself was too often lost and dazed.
' You are over sensitive, darling, and too
imaginative," he added, after a brief silence ;
*' your nerves are too highly strung, and
cruel circumstances have given them a twist
awry. You frighten yourself with false
fears, and live in dread of things that never
happen. You must rouse yourself, Clarice ;
we have quite enough real difficulties to
contend with. I can protect you from the

actual ills that threaten you, but I cannot
protect you against yourself. Try and
throw yourself into the life of this lovely
place ; interest yourself in your neighbours,
go among the poor and suffering and see
what you can do to help them, for in helping
others through their troubles we, to
some extent, forget our own."

'' I'll try, father dear, I will try," exclaimed
Clarice, with a sudden change of
manner ; ' but don't let us talk any more 
I'm tired. Where's Jack ? I saw him pass
the window a little while ago. Tell him he
may come and read to me if he likes."

TWO AEE COMPANY.

nne intimacy between the three families
-- ripened rapidly during the next two or
three weeks ; both Jack Swayne and Hugh
Spencer still remained in Cornwall, though
they had both been due elsewhere for sometime
past, but in some way each seemed to
be suspicious of the other, each seeming
determined to outstay the other, and see
him safely off the scene. Although this
was pretty evident, they were very good
friends apparently, and 'my dear fellow's "

each other freely, after the manner of their
kind.

Nothing of any particular interest occurred,
the days rolled uneventfully on,
though the visiting between the neighbours
became fast and furious, the distance between
their several dwellings was spanned as by a
magic bridge. One day there was a luncheon
party at the Laurencess', another a picnic
in the Manor House woods, or among the
wild, picturesque rugged rocks at the Land's
End, or perhaps they would enjoy an, al
fresco kettledrum at the Manor House, with
long delightful strolls upon the shore,
scrambling among the rocks in an emulous
hunt for sea anemones or any other weedy
or crustaceous wonder they could pick up,
sometimes prolonging their wanderings till
the sun had set, strolling homeward to the
Manor House through the misty twilight,
and there they generally found a cold collation

temptingly awaiting them, which, of
course, induced them to prolong their visit
till unseasonable hours, and they amused
themselves with pleasant chit chat and
bright badinage, or perhaps a little music ;
for the only accomplishment which Hugh
possessed, that was not purely masculine,
was a talent for music ; he was a tolerably
good violin player and had a fine voice, a
tenor, which under cultivation would have
been a rare possession.

He and Clarice had found out and
thoroughly appreciated each other's musical
abilities. He sang in good style, and his
performance was infinitely superior to that
of amateurs generally, and when he could
induce Clarice to blend her rich, glorious
voice with his in a duet he seemed to climb
the heights of felicity at a bound, and sang
as though he would sing his soul away.
Then there were long lingering pressures of

the hand, sometimes a few tender words at
parting  which was perhaps a natural result
of the romantic wanderings through
the long dreamy summer days, and the soft
influence of the moonlit' nights ; for Clarice
and Jack generally strolled with their visitors
on a part of their homeward way, and
more than once it had been nearly midnight
before they returned through the hushed
woods beneath the light of the weird white
moon.

The air at that time was so soft and
delicious, the sound of the unfathomable
silence so soothing, and the mysterious
murmur of the sea, as its phosphorescent
wavelets rolled in along the shore, was so
suggestive, so full of spiritual eloquence,
that Clarice was never tired of listening toit.
She enjoyed a ramble by night more
than a stroll by day ; if she could have
followed her own inclination she would

have walked for hours ; she was never tired
of watching the moonlight creep silently
over the sleeping land, gliding along over
the hill-tops, sweeping down into the valleys,
piercing the tangled woods, and gliding
from point to point, resting here in a gleam
of ghostly whiteness, then passing on and
leaving a host of trailing shadows behind it.
Through all this change in her life Clarice
seemed merging into a brighter, happier
self, and Mr. Fleming, who watched her
with anxious, loving eyes, rejoiced to see
her gradually improving in all respects ;
she certainly was better in health, and in
every way seemed more contented and at
rest ; the smile came more frequently to
her lips, and her eyes shone with a quiet,
peaceful light that he never remembered
to have seen there before. She took more
interest in the common affairs of daily life,
and indeed seemed to have entered upon a

new plane of existence altogether, while her
manner to Jack was decidedly more friendly
and affectionate than it had been for many
a day. They had neither of them made
any reference to the darling project of his
heart since they had last spoken together
on the subject, but whether this augured
well or ill for its success he was afraid to
speculate ; he must watch and wait. Whether
her present tranquillity would be lasting,
consequent upon the modification and change
in her life  for the present social condition
with the new elements introduced into it was
a great change  or was only a mere mood,
a lull upon the surface of her nature, leaving
the subtle stormy current unchanged below,
he could not tell.

A great deal of her present content he
attributed to the friendly and familiar relations
that had been established between
herself and other young people of her own

VOL. I. 12

age ; lie encouraged their frequent visits to
the Manor House ; he preferred that Clarice
should receive her young friends there,
rather than that she should visit them
at their own homes. He liked to see the
young people twittering about the garden
like heedless young sparrows, or otherwise
amusing themselves in the many ways
peculiar to their age and inclinations,
and when he caught the sound of
Clarice's low, rippling laughter. Wending
with the more boisterous tones of her
companions, he smiled with inward satisfaction.
Sometimes he thought the young
men might employs their time better, that
it was being wasted, frittered away in
feminine society ; yet he would not regret
it if matters between Clarice and Jack
were ripening quietly towards the fruition
of his great desire  almost the one desire
of his life now.

He had no idea how the rambling party
conducted itself, whether they strolled about
a compact body, or straggled off in pairs,
like the animals in Noah's Ark, each according
to its kind and affinity ; he never
troubled himself to think about it. Jack
and Clarice were so closely, so indissolubly
linked together in his mind, that the idea
of any other man or woman having the
power to draw them apart by the action of
any natural magic or mesmerism, to attract
the one from the other, never entered his
mind ; it could not he ! That the natural
perversity of human nature should divert
itself by playing a game of cross purposes
on this special occasion was a thing undreamt
of in his philosophy. However, as
it happened, things generally fell out something
in this wise. Though the party
might be closely allied at starting, the
general conversation soon began to flag,

and they drifted into X3airs, and somehow
chance or fate decided that Hugh Spencer,
should find himself beside Clarice, and
attached Jack Swayne to Miss Spencer's
skirts. The Misses Lawrence, healthy-hearted,
good-natured girls, were thrown
off into a kind of skirmishing party, and
fired little saucy shots into the tete-astute
stragglers, which were caught up and answered
in the friendliest fashion.

It is by no means certain that the arrangement
was productive of general satisfaction.
As a rule, in these little matters
some one would like to change places with
somebody else ; but as somebody else i&
supremely content, there is small chance
of a change in the arrangements, and the
discontented veils his vexation by an appearance
of uproarious good spirits, for if
he shows his annoyance, or allows a tip of
the green-eyed monster's tail to reveal itself,,

he lays himself open to mild attacks of
banter and merciless badinage, which are
insupportable to the manly spirit.

To Miriam Spencer these seaside or
woodland wanderings came to be the only
things worth living for; she was unaccustomed
to the world, and had never dreamed
that such a man as Jack Swayne would ever
drift across her path. In her eyes

*' He seemed the goodliest man
That ever among ladies sate in hall,
And noblest ! "

As though roused by some subtle power,
her whole soul, awakened from its dull
lethargic calm, became absorbed in the
thought of him. The world seemed to
revolve in a new orbit, everything seemed
so changed and bright. She believed that
he eagerly sought her society, when it was
mere chance which threw him into it  that
he desired no better thing than to wander

by her side beneath the summer sun. The
courtesies and small complimentary nothings,
which pass current and do good
lip-service in general society, she received
as the pure gold coinage of the love-lands,
in circulation only when the heart is touched,
and the wandering fancy chained by the
heart's affection ; and he  well, he was
blind to the soft love-light dawning in her
cold blue eyes.

"When, as it often happened, they found
themselves thrown together in solitary companionship,
he naturally devoted himself to
her, and endeavoured to make the time pass
pleasantly, as he felt a gentleman was bound
to do, and to which he was perfectly well
inclined. He thought she was rather cold
and reserved, and, perhaps, took a little
more pains than he need have done, to find
out whether she had a heart or not, without,
however, having the slightest idea of bringing

down upon himself the avalanche of her
affections !

He never reflected that human nature has
volcanic qualities, and a passionate heart is
often hidden by a cold exterior. Although
he seemed absorbed by Miriam Spencer, his
thoughts and his eyes constantly turned
upon that other pair chatting so pleasantly
ahead of him ; and when he heard Hugh's
fresh voice ring out on the still air, and
caught a glimpse of Clarice's fair face
smiling a comment or reply in answer,
his broad brow contracted into a frown,
and an ominous cloud gathered in his
eyes, which those who knew him well
would not have cared to see ; but Miriam
was too obtuse, too well assured of the
effects of her own charms, to comprehend
those delicate signs of emotion, and tripped
by his side, with a light heart, rejoicing.

On one of those excursions the last, as

it chanced to be  as they were scrambling
among the rocks, Clarice's foot got entangled
among the slippery sea-weed, and in her
endeavours to disengage herself she lost
her balance and fell. Hugh, who was close
by, sprang forward with outstretched hand
to arrest her fall, but too late ; he fell into
a pool of water himself, and by the time he
had picked himself up Clarice had scrambled
into a sitting posture, but seemed
enable to rise to her feet, even when he
came to her assistance. She looked up at
him with a piteous expression of countenance,
as she said :

 I'm afraid I've hurt my foot ; I cannot
stand."

*< Try now ; with my help, perhaps you
can," answered Hugh, promptly giving her
the support he thought necessary. 'Now
try."

'rit is no use. I can't; and  oh! it is

such pain ! " she moaned ; * my ankle gives
way under me. If I could only get on to
the beach and rest a little ! "

' Shall I  will you let me carry you ? ''
he said, eagerly. ' I  I am very sorry, but
I fancy there is no other way of getting you
to the land." He blushed like a girl as he
Spoke, and she answered in embarrassed
hesitation :

*' Oh, dear ! it was so stupid of me ! and
I'm afraid I'm too heavy  and it is so
slippery. I'm afraid we should both fall
down."

He lifted her as though she were but a
feather's weight, and, balancing himself,
carefully picked his way over the wet weed-covered
stones, and soon deposited her on a
rough boulder upon dry land. Meanwhile
Jack Swayne, slowly sauntering along the
shore, as usual by Miriam's side, now exchanging
pleasantries with Stella Laurence,

or picking up pebbles and pelting the waves,
or shooting tender commonplaces into
Miriam's expectant ears, saw from afar off
what had happened, and uttering a hurried
exclamation under his breath, strode rapidly
forward, soon covered the ground between
them, and stood by Clarice's side, looking
down upon her with a look of angry solicit
tide upon his face, as he said, shortly 

'' What is it, Clarice ? What has happened?"


*'0h, nothing much," she answered, as
cheerfully as she could, considering she was
in pain; *only I slipped upon the rocks,
and hurt my foot."

"If I had been with you it wouldn't
have happened," he said, shortly, without
glancing at Hugh, who, without taking the
least notice of the base insinuation, smiled
brightly down on Clarice, saying, with an
aggravating tender air 

* You'll be better after a little rest
Somebody wet a handkerchief  you, Miss
Stella, and make a bandage for the poor
little foot."

Nobody could have helped it, Jack'*
said Clarice, answering his angry look deprecatingly,
and somehow feeling that Hugh
had fallen into disgrace. She tried to throw
oil upon the troubled waters, and instead of
smoothing matters, with tactless innocence
added fuel to the smouldering fire of Jack's
wrath, as she said  

* I don't know what I should have done
without Mr. Spencer ; he was so kind, and
carried me all over the slippery rocks."

' Very kind of him," said Jack ; ' I don't
suppose any other man would have done as
much ! How can we ever recompense such
courage  such chivalry ? ' '

** Don't mention it, my dear fellow," answered
Hugh, with imperturbable good-humour;

'it was a real pleasure, I assure
you."

Meanwhile Stella had dipped her handkerchief
ito the sea, and proceeded to bind
up the injured foot, while Jack stooped
down and held a low-voiced and evidently
sympathetic colloquy with Clarice, for after
a few minutes' quiet talk, she said 

' Yes, really, I am better now; in a few
minutes I shall be able to walk, I think,
though, perhaps, slowly."

* If you are not, you know," said Hugh,
** my  what was it ?  courage and chivalry
are still at your service ; I shall be delighted
to resume my burden, and carry you home."

thanks," said Jack, answering for her;
** as I said before, you are very kind, but
now that I am here, there is no necessity
for troubling any one. If you are really
inclined to be useful, you might run up to
the Manor House and send down the pony-carriage

to meet us at the nearest point,
though I hardly know where that is."

I know," replied Hugh ; ' I'll bring the
carriage myself, and then run down and
fetch you along. Ail revoir ! I shall not
be long."

Although Clarice suffered from a slight
sprain only, it was enough to confine her
for some days to the house  days, however,
that passed pleasantly enough, for
there was no brooding time allowed her ;
her young friends were unremitting in their
attentions, and every day some of them
dropped in to amuse her with the little
gossip of the town  poor, twaddling stuff
it was, molehills magnified to mountains,
and commonplace facts swollen to romantic
incidents; but their good, genial spirits
and fresh, breezy voices could but have a
healthful influence on Clarice's more delicately
organized, morbid nature. Besides

the visits of her female friends, her solitude
was enlivened by Hugh's companionship,
for, punctual as clockwork, he made his
appearance at the Manor House, and
always with some little offering in his
hand  a bunch of wild flowers, fresh from
the woods, a book, a poem, or any little
thing that might please her passing fancy.
His coming was generally heralded by Jack
Swayne, who, with pleasant honliomie,
escorted him into the library, where Clarice
reclined upon her sofa with the windows
flung wide open, while the song of birds
mingled with the sweet scent of flowers,
and the briny breath of the sea swept in
with invigorating freshness. Jack was apparently
in the best of spirits, and enlivened
the interview with cheery, pleasant talk.
He always remained till the end of the
visit, and then escorted Hugh out of
Clarice's presence with more inward satisfaction

than he had ushered him into
it.

Unfortunately, so Hugh thought, he was
compelled to return to Cambridge before
Clarice was well enough to enjoy another
ramble through the blossoming woods,
which were fast bursting into their summer
bloom, and he somewhat rebelled
against the constant, though genial presence
of Jack Swayne, during the brief

time he passed in her society. He called


late one afternoon to take his leave ; by

skilful manoeuvring he had contrived to
leave the members of his own family at
home, and timed his visit so that Jack
should be absent, taking his daily constitutional
; but he had evidently changed his
daily habit, for when Hugh arrived, there
was the irrepressible Jack lounging on the
terrace, as though actually awaiting his
arrival. He greeted Hugh, and shook

hands with him more cordially than ever.
The young men walked up and down,
smoked a cigar together, and chatted
upon such subjects as came uppermost
in their minds. Presently Jack said, with
a provoking air of cool proprietorship 

** You'll he glad to hear that Clarice is
getting on splendidly; she walked across
the room this morning without assistance.
Would you like to see her, eh ? "

Hugh replied that he certainly should ;
in fact he had come purposely to say
*' good-bye," as he was going back to Cambridge,
and might not return to Penally
for some time.

Ah ! " exclaimed Jack, with some satisfaction.
** I finished my grind long ago,
thank God ; I can come and go as I please
now, no more exam., no more anything
disagreeable. But, come along, we'll go into
our fair invalid at once."

There are times when the society of our
dearest friend may be dispensed with, and
this was one. Jack's substantial figure
loomed darkly between Hugh and Clarice,
and, for Hugh, dimmed the brightness of
the parting hour. If he could only have
had five minutes* Ute-a-Ute with her ! Not
that he had anything particular that he
dared to say, only he would fain have
had her low-voiced, sweet ' good-bye " fall
upon his ear alone  the light of her soft
blue eyes shine upon him only, with no
shadow between to intercept a single ray.
He longed to send one secret, silent message
from his soul to hers, that she might know
and feel, without the aid of words, how
much he loved her, and how much of himself
he left behind him. But the antagonistic
influence of Jack's presence stood
between them and stirred the atmosphere
with an adverse current which flowed like a

VOL. I. 13

subtle invisible cloud between them, and so
their parting was a mere commonplace
** good-bye." He held her hand with a
long, lingering pressure, that was scarcely
necessary, in Jack's eyes, as he said :

*' I am sorry to go ; but for your accident
we should have had our excursion to the
Land's End ; you know nothing of the
grand picturesque beauty of our coast till
you have been there ; now it must be postponed."


Don't distress yourself, my dear fellow,
it won't be postponed for long," said Jack,
with aggressive cheerfulness ; * I mean to
drive Clarice over as soon as she is able to
bear the fatigue of a long excursion ; we'll
set up a jolly little picnic and  drink your
health with the first bottle of champagne."


' I shall miss Mr. Spencer dreadfully,"
said Clarice, as her eyes dreamily followed

his retreating figure disappear into the
wilderness,  he has been so attentive since
my little accident," and she sniffed at the
last bunch of wild flowers he had brought
her ;  so kind of him," she added, ' to
some here every day to amuse me, he always
managed to cheer me up  it must have been
dull work too."

<Yery," replied Jack. ''I wonder how
he survived it ! seriously. Clary, I think we
ought to present him with a testimonial in
the shape of a piece of plate, duly inscribed,
setting forth his virtues, don't you know, as
they do when a fellow distinguishes himself
in "

*' Don't talk nonsense. Jack," she answered
smiling, with an impatient toss of
her pretty head ; then, as though suddenly
struck by the idea that she had let all Jack's
devotion pass without a word of recognition,
she added, laying her hand in his, *you

have been very good too, Jack, but then
you always are. Somehow, one expects it
of you, it seems natural that you should do
everything and be everything. I wish I
could do something for you in return, Jack,
but I can't, I can't ! And you have spoilt
me always, ever since father first brought
me home ; how long, how very long ago that
seems ! Who would have thought such days,
as these could be born of such a time as
that ? " She spoke slowly, her voice and
her thoughts seemed to trail back into the
past, the sweet expression which had late!}-
dawned upon her face faded from it, and left
it white and set with the strange sad look
that he knew so well ! It was as though a
shadow from the unknown years had fallen
over her and clouded her spirit, and gathered
all her thoughts together and focussed them
upon some terrible spot in the past that
shut out the light of the sun.

Jack was patient, he knew the mood
would pass away. He sat by her side,
holding her hand in his sympathetic clasp,
and watched and waited.

SHE SAYS "NO I

HUGH turned his back upon Penally and
went away with lingering footsteps ;
the buoyant lightness of his spirit was left
behind him, and he carried away in his
heart something that was new and strange
to him, and sweet withal, but the sweetness,
for the moment, was touched with the bitter
pain of parting. He seemed suddenly to
have merged into another self. It seemed
incredible that only a month ago he had
come down to Penally a free man  free in
body and in mind, light of heart as lithe of

limb, with no thought for tomorrow, no
cloud to dim the brightness of to-day. Now
he was a changed man. Something had
been born into his life that would never
leave it, and had turned its current from
the laughing level plains of the world's
highways, where commonplace life deports
itself in commonplace fashion, and plunged,
it into soft mysterious depth, where the
lights and shadows of romance fall flickering
on the present and light up the future with
the passionate glow of a man's first love.

The thought of Clarice possessed him
wholly, and coloured all his thoughts, hopes,
and aspirations ; he could paint no scene on
the broad canvas of his future, wherein she
was not the principal figure, fair in the foreground,
leaving all the rest in shadow.
Strange to say he was not troubled with the
thoughts of Jack ; he regarded him simply
as a stumbling-block, not as a rival ; why !

he had been with her all his life, and had
such opportunities of winning her affections
as no outsider could ever hope to enjoy, and
as she was still union  of that he felt well
assured  there was no chance of his winning
her now. The atmosphere of secrecy which
enveloped Clarice, and lifted her out of the
common groove of womankind, increased
her fascinations a thousandfold. He felt
that the mystery would one day be unravelled,
and unravelled by his hand. He
fancied, from a stray word she had once let
fall, that he had found a clue to it, and
resolved to hold that clue fast in his
memory, and follow it to the end. If he
could have seen whither it would lead him,
he would perhaps have dropped it and
turned his face towards the. other end of the
world.

It was nearly twilight, a few days after
Hugh Spencer's departure, and Clarice, who

had progressed rapidly, and was now able
to walk without discomfort, was out upon
the terrace. For a time she paced up and
down with rapid, restless footsteps  then she
stopped suddenly and leaned over the stonewall
with her face turned seaward. She
remained there a long time, watching the
delicate cloudlets of amethyst and gold
which were floating like angels' wings on
the horizon. Jack was not far off; he was
seated under a tree with a cigar between
his lips. With a tender love-light in* his
eyes, he watched Clarice, as she stood in
the after-glow of the sunset, her rapt face
half veiled in shadow. A solitary thrush
called from its bower of green ; but for that
one musical trill, a sweet dewy silence
brooded everywhere, a silence just haunted
by the inarticulate murmuring of invisible
nature; the air was stirred with sweet
odours, and the spirit of peace and purity

seemed moving like an invisible presence
over the drowsy land. Jack presently flung
away the end of his cigar and slowly crossed
to Clarice's side.

You had better come in, dear," he said ;
 we must take care of you, it is getting
chilly, and the dews are beginning to
fall."

*' It is warm and delicious, and there aro
no dews yet," she answered, slightly rebelling
as he persisted in wrapping a shawl
about her shoulders.

He kept his arm round her, and looked on.
her with fond yearning which she, and she
only, could call into his grave dark eyes.

'' How quiet and silent you are ! " he said,
softly.  Clarice, darling, what are you
thinking of?"

* I  nothing," she answered, briefly.

'' Nothing ! " he echoed, incredulously ;
but in truth it often happened that she was

thinking of nothing ; for a hazy nebulous
something seemed working in her brain,
trying to resolve itself into rays of thought,
but the light was lost in the shadowy
wanderings of her imaginations, and presented
only a shapeless mass of tinted
mysteries to her mind's eye. His earnest
gaze vexed her. She turned her head away
impatiently, as she said :

* It is very rude to stare at people so. I
wish you wouldn't, for I don't like to be
looked at so  indeed I very much dislikes"

*' Dislike to be looked at by those who
love you! That is strange."

*not at all strange," she answered.
* Why, even Bouncer growls if you stare at
him straight in the face ! "

** Perhaps Bouncer has a bad conscience,,
and being given to evil ways has been
robbing the larder."

* Bouncer doesn't do such vulgar things.

Jerry might ! he's such a greedy beast, never
satisfied ; he has no conscience at all ; I'm
sure if he were human he'd prefer stealing
to getting an honest living."
 Jack was silent. He was not going to be
driven from his point by a discussion on
canine vices or virtues. His silence seemed
to jar upon her in some way; for after a
momentary pause she added quickly :

 I'm going in now."

'No, don't go yet, it won't hurt you to
be looked at a little longer, even by me.
I've seen somebody else look at you lately,
and you didn't seem to object."
* I know what you mean," she answered,
turning her face away from his ardent gaze;
* but that was different; he didn't look at
me as you do."

* Of course he didn't," said Jack, decidedly,
*i'd thrash him into a cocked hat if
he did."

* Oh, Jack ! " exclaimed Clarice, breathless
with horror at such a threat,

'' I don't see why he wants to look at you
at all," added Jack ; '* you are nothing to
Jiiniy and you're all the world to one''

*' Please don't talk like that," answered
Clarice; ' you know that I never shall be
all the lu oriel ' to any man."

*' No, not to any man, only to me. Why,
when you were a mere child, and I bought
you your first doll, you called yourself my
little wife and vowed you loved me above
all the world."

* Aye, but I am a woman now,' answered
Clarice, gently ; " I was always fond of you,
Jack, and I am very fond of you still, only
not quite in the way you want, and it is
wicked to pretend what one doesn't feel."

There is no need for you to "pretend
anything," said Jack, eagerly, * Clary, darling,
my one pure love !"  his strong, resolute

face softened, and this voice deepened into
passionate  emotion  " I shall be content
with so little, I have enough love for both,
I can give all you need from my own full
supply I  I am not demonstrative ; people
who feel much never are ; only those who
j)layat passion talk about it, but I love you,
God knows I do ! and I have loved you all
your life ; not with that puny passion that
lives to-day and dies tomorrow, but  "
he stumbled as though his feelings could
not translate themselves into words  " why,
Clarice, you are itself ! you have grown to
be a part of me, and can no more tear yourself
away than you could cut the body from
the soul ! It is not possible that you and I
can go separate ways, you to any other man,
I to any other woman ! " He spoke with
the deep earnestness of settled conviction,
as though he were the voice of inexorable
fate. 'Clarice! my one heart's love, why

can't you give yourself to me ? you profess
to love my uncle, your more than father ."

*' And I do love him ! " exclaimed Clarice,
lifting her eyes, now filled with tears, to his
face, for she could not bear to hurt the
meanest thing, and she knew she was
hurting Jack dreadfully ; ' there is nothing
in the world I would not do to prove it 
I'd give him my very life gladly."

' That is tall talk," said Jack, with a
momentary return of his usual cool manner ;
you know he doesn't want your life  what
good would it be to him ? The days are past
when heroic sacrifices were needed from
men or women either ; it is easy talking 
the one thing, the only thing he has ever
asked of you  the one thing that would
make us all three happy, you will not do."

That is nonsense ! " rejoined Clarice,
going straight to the point at once ; " how
could I be happy if I was forced or talked

into doing a thing I hate ? for," she added,
laying her hands upon his shoulder and
fixing her eyes with bewildering sweetness
upon his face, *sit sounds dreadful. Jack 
but I should hate even you if  if  I were
forced to marry you."

That sounds horrible," exclaimed Jack,
lifting her hands down, but still holding
them fast in his. Her absolute directness
had thrown a new light upon the subject.
' The idea of forcing a woman to do anything
is repulsive ; but I hoped you were to
be won; it seems impossible that a great
love like mine  a love not born in an hour,
Lorn of a woman's grace or a woman's
beauty, but the gradual growth of a man's
whole life  should fail to win love in return !
But I can't grovel and beg for what I long

for. If you reject me so . But, my

darling, my darling, my heart is so hungry
for you  can you come to me ? " With a

burst of passionate emotion he clasped her
in his arms, and in the next moment thrust
her rather rudely from him as he exclaimed,
''My God! though I hold you so close, I
feel you are miles away ! I would rather
hold a dead woman to my heart than a
body without a soul !  and yet it is hard "
he spoke half through his clenched teeth
as though trying hard to keep some bad
thing back, as he added, regretfully, '' My
fair, sweet purity ! it is hard to think you
can never  never be mine."

' Why don't you leave off wanting me.
Jack?" she rejoined, simply; 'everything
would be so pleasant and easy then. Can't
you let things be as they are ? "

I can  if I must," he answered

And we will go back to our old ways,"
she added, " and you will be the same dear,
good old Jack you've always been to me till
this dreadful idea came into your head, and

VOL. 1. 14

I will be like a sister to you  if you will let
me."

** You may as well offer to be my grandmother,"
he rejoined, gloomily; *' you don't
understand things  girls never do."

*'I dare say I'm very stupid, Jack," she
answered, humbly, ** but I can understand
one thing well enough  I know that I have
hurt you, and in hurting you I have hurt
myself more ; it is always worse to give
pain than to endure it, especially when one
must hurt those one loves."

** Don't be a hypocrite, child," he exclaimed,
with a harshness born of despair,
for he had always hoped till now  that
hope had been suddenly and surely shut
out of his heart, 'rand misuse the word love!
you know nothing about it."

''I am not a hypocrite," in an aggrieved
tone ; '" there are many ways of loving,
though you seem to think there is only
one."

'' With lis there is but one way ; and
that you will find out some time. I shall
be sorry for the man when you do ! " he
added, grimly.

' If it makes people hard and cruel as it
makes you, I hope I never shall know anything
about it'' said Clarice, stifling a sob.
Her voice sounded full of tears, and her
face looked so pale and sad, it sent a bitter
pang to his heart, and caused a revulsion of
feeling, with less of self and more of generosity
in it. For pure, unadulterated selfishness,
there is no one like a man in love ;
while he is fully awake to his own sufferings
his own egotistical desires, he is blind and
dead to the pain and sorrow he inflicts on
the object of his devotion. Her miserable
face roused Jack to a sense of his selfishness
; and he lashed himself with silent
anathemas, low uttered under his breath.
As soon as he could command his voice, he
said, aloud 

* I've a great mind to say I'll never forgive
you for making me such a coward ! for
it is cowardly to badger a poor little girl
like you ; come, cheer up  don't make me
feel more of a brute ! "

She blinked away her unshed tears in
obedience to his desire ; and a smile like a
gleam of sunshine through an April shower
stole over her face.

' There, that's right," he said, "and
we'll try to forget that the ' dreadful idea '
ever entered my mind ! " It cost him a
twinge to echo her words, but he did,
adding, '' and we'll let things go on in the
old way. I promise not to allude to the
subject, and  there's my hand upon it.
Why, how cold yours are ! you are shivering
too ! though the night is so soft and
warm. Come, let us take a brisk walk and
get warm together."

Clarice rejoiced to see Jack putting on his

old self, and gladly accepted his invitation
and commenced to walk briskly up and down.
The twilight had died out, and the stars,
like golden flowers, bloomed out of the dark
blue skies ; everything was shrouded in dim
obscurity. Not a feature of the landscape
was discernible, and the sea, hidden away
like a huge mystery, boomed thunderous
upon the far-away shore below. They still
paced up and down, now silent, now exchanging
a few commonplace words, rather
for the sake of speaking than for anything
particular they had to say. They tried to lay
a smooth surface over the troublous feelings
that agitated them below, and, with their
tongues at least, glided as far as possible
away from the subject that lay nearest to
their hearts. Both were sadly ill at ease ; she
felt the great sorrow which any pure woman
must feel at giving pain to the man who
loves her, and who comes to her with the full

approval and good wishes of those nearest
and dearest to her. She grieved for him,
and she grieved for herself ; she knew she
was rejecting, and rejecting for all time, the
love of a true man, a love that would never
fail her through all the changing scenes of
the days to come, that would cleave to her
through storm and sunshine, weal and woe,
to the end, and she put it hom her with a
regretful sigh.

She was fond of Jack, with the fondness
which grows with the familiar intercourse
of daily life, the pleasant, easy-going affection
that makes home harmonious, and
helps the machinery of the world to grind
through the days and years without dragging
them with discords or keeping the
domestic hearth in a state of chronic eruption
; hut when he was proposed to her asa
lover ! a prospective husband ! she laughed
at first, and thought it was a joke ; then

when her father broached the subject in all
seriousness, her soul revolted from the idea.
Although there was really no blood relationship
between them, she had from her
earliest years been so accustomed to regard
him as a dear brother that the bare notion
of regarding him in any other light seemed
unnatural, and filled her with dismay. With
Jack things had been different from the
beginning. Years ago, when his uncle with
strange suddenness had brought to their
grand old Devonshire home a wife ani a
little girl, Clarice  then a grave, silent
child about six years old  he, a fine strapping
youth of sixteen, had constituted himself
her guardian and friend, and during all
his home-staying times devoted himself to
her baby pleasures ; his boisterous spirits
were toned down in her presence, and he
left his rough boyish sports to accommodate
himself to her gentle childish ways  her

nurse's place was a sinecure when Jack was
at home ; he played with her and amused
and wandered about the woods, and over
the hills with her  they were never apart,
and the tall, bright-eyed youth and fair,
fragile little girl grew to be familiar objects
to the country people for miles round.

The sweet, strange ways 'of the delicate
child attracted and held the boy more firmly
than the most exuberant animated girlhood
could have done; he watched over her
through all her changing moods, through
the gradual development of her nature from
her quaint childhood to beautiful, mysterious
womanhood. She had been the feminine
study of his life, and he fancied he held her
heart in his hand and could dissect it at his
leisure ! He knew her so thoroughly, he
thought  and perhaps he did know her as
well as one human being ever does know
another, and that is not saying much, for

from the cradle to the grave we are living
mysteries to ourselves, and double mysteries
to one another. As he watched the fair
young thing developed from one stage of
beauty to another, his great love grew and
strengthened day by day, absorbing her
more and more into his life  now that she
had blossomed into the full bloom of
womanhood, he had stretched forth his
hand to take her, to gather her to his heart,
Hfe of his life, lo ! all he had desired to have
and to hold through all this side of eternity
crumbled beneath his touch, and left his
hand full of ashes ! He had played all his
life for one stake and  lost, when he had
thought it most secure. The most terrible
crisis in life is always the most sudden ;
we build up our hopes and wishes into one
vast castle in the air, and, like a house of
cards, it is blown down with a breath ! He
had felt so happy and hopeful as the sun

had set, but the stars came out and found
him desolate. A grey shadow fell over hin
he felt like a soldier paralyzed on the
march to glory ! but he would recover  he
knew that  and be strong, though perhaps
not with the same strength again. Presently
a soft voice fell upon his ear ; he.

heard it as through a mist or fog, as it said:

* Jack  are you angry? "

' Angry ! " he echoed. '' No  why should
I be ? you can't help your feelings  I can't
help mine  that's all." After another
moment's brief and rather embarrassing
silence she spoke again, in a hesitating,
nervous way :

' Do you know that father has spoken tome
about  this? "

"No, I did not know it," he answered,
pausing abruptly in his walk. " He should
not have done so with my consent. I prefer
conducting my own affairs. Of course I

know, and have always known, that he had
this matter very much at heart ; but I am
vexed that he should have broached the subject
to you without first consulting me. I
would not have the slightest pressure
brought to bear upon your inclination. I
would have sou. come to me of your own
free will, or  not at all."

* I knew you would feel so," she rejoined.
' Any man would who really cared. With
father it is different. You both want one
thing, but from different motives."

"Naturally, we cannot view the matter
from the same standpoint. The one hope
of the dear old man's life is centred in us
two  in you from love, on me from pride.
It really can't signify to him whom I marry,
or whom you marry  with proper provisions,
of course."

"Z shall never marry anybody," she exclaimed,
accelerating her pace.

He continued, without noticing her interruption
: ' He takes rather a financial view
of the matter. Old men generally do. He
regards us rather as goods and chattels. He
wants to bracket us together, and hang us
on his genealogical tree decorated with all
his wealth and property, to have and to
hold for evermore ; but we don't see it, do
we?"

' No," she answered, almost under her
breath.

'' So many lives are all writ awry in this
world," he added. It is a pity that conscience
and duty won't always square with
our affections."

*' Yes ; but I think it is a pity that conscience
and duty and money should be mixed
with our affections at all."

* Oh ! it answers well enough, as a rule.
We are exceptions. It is a kind of Prince's
Mixture that keeps the pulse of the world

going. Singly no one would be strong
enough for the purpose."

In spite of the bitter disappointment, the
spasm of real pain that was grappling at
his heart below, although his nature was
stirred to its inmost depths, his little
cynicism came bubbling to the surface. He
felt deeply, but hid the depths of his feelings.
He was a man to suffer and be
strong, to act with a brave, dauntless spirit
when the hour for action came, and to leave
the talking to weaker, shallower natures.

Mr. Fleming's study and library was on
the ground floor, and the windows opened
out upon a grassy slope just above the
terraced walk where they were slowly pacing
up and down. More than once he rose
from his chair, went to the window and
looked out upon the two shrouded figures,
but dimly seen in the starlit night. He
thought Clarice was over fatiguing herself;

that " Jack ought not to keep her out so
long or so late." Then his grave face relaxed
into a smile. "Lovers are selfish,"
he reflected; 'she wouldn't disturb them."
Somehow he felt that things were coming
to a crisis, and his sanguine old heart fondly
believed that the crisis must be as he most
desired.

They walked up and down for a few
moments longer, he holding her soft little
hand with a tender pressure  he could not
deny himself this luxury of feeling  a few
more words passed, that said little but meant
much. Neither seemed inclined to take the
first step towards parting, yet both felt it
would be well to say ' good-night." At
last Clarice spoke.

I'm tired. Jack," she said, wearily. ' If
you don't mind, I think I'll go in."

Of course," he answered, promptly. *' I
ought not to have kept you out so long."

For a moment both stood still and silent ;
then he took her face between his hands
and turned it up in the dim starlight. ' Just
one last word, one last look, darling," he
whispered, his eyes clinging to her face, and
his voice low and full of suppressed passion.
*' We bid good-bye to love to-night ; but we
will take friendship to our heart's core, and
perhaps that will be best of the two."

* Yes," she murmured below her breath.

** And in any trouble, the least or the
greatest, you will turn to me V

* Oh, yes; always. Jack," she answered,
' if you won't "

' Of course I won't," he interrupted her
quickly, without giving her time to finish
her sentence. Then he added, with solemn
gravity : ** One thing more I must say before
we part. I have always had a presentiment
and it comes upon me more strongly than
ever to-night  that in the one great crisis

of your life I shall be with you ; J, and no
other man, shall stand beside you, whether
you call for me or no ! And now goodnight
 good-night ! " With a sudden uncontrollable
impulse he caught her in his
arms, and kissed her again and again with a
vehemence of passion that half frightened
her ; then abruptly he put her from him.
'' Now go. Good-night  good-night ! "

MIRIAM IN TROUBLE.

rriHE next day Clarice kept rigorously to
-*- her room, and as rigorously excluded
all visitors from it, refusing to see anyone
except her maid, an elderly German, who
had been with her from her childhood, and
perhaps knew her, with all her changing
moods, better than any one else in the world.
When the breakfast-bell rang, she sent down
word to say she was not coming down, and
wished to have her breakfast sent to her
room. The message was delivered just as
Mr. Fleming and Jack had seated them-vol.
i 15

selves at the table. They looked at each
other interrogatively.

I will go and see what is the matter
with the child," said Mr. Fleming, setting
down his cup. '' You kept her out too late
last night, Jack. Perhaps she has got a
chill ; if so, we must send off at once for
Dr. Parkes."

Without waiting for Jack's reply, he went
upstairs and tapped at Clarice's door. To
his surprise she flung it wide open herself,
and looked at him with a most uninvalidish
air.

'why, Clarice, my child, I thought you
were not well ; and I came up to see what
was the matter."

'' Well ! " she exclaimed, smiling, though
rather vaguely. '' Oh, yes, I am quite well,
only I want to be alone. I'm best alone today
; people worry me. I want to think ; I
don't want to talk." Seeing an anxious.

perturbed look come into his eyes, she
reached her arms up about his neck, and
the kind, grey head stooped down and
kissed her as she said, reassuringly : ' It is
true. I am quite well, dear; only I want
to think things out by myself. Ask Jack to
tell you about last night," she added, lowering
her voice to a whisper.

The old man returned to the breakfast-room
more at ease. When it was over he
and Jack retired to the library, and spent-the
morning there, talking, writing letters,
and seemingly plunged head over ears in
business matters.

The weather was not very attractive out
of doors, even if they had been disposed to
take advantage of it ; indeed, it was the
most unpleasant day of the season. The
bitter winds seemed to cling to the skirts of
summer ; the air was reeking with a thick
grey mist that almost reached the dignity of

a fog. It seemed to have no strength to
clear itself off, but hovered in a hesitating sort
of way, as though it could not make up its
mind whether to disperse in showers of drizzling
rain, or wait drifting about to see if there
was a chance of the sun rising to drink it
up ; but the sun showed no signs of coming
out and shining in its bright, happy fashion.
Once or twice as the hours wore on it peeped
out in a weak, watery way, just sent one
solitary gleam earthward, then hastily withdrew,
recognizing the fact that it was really
no use trying to shine with such odds against
it. So it went to rest, resolved to get up
early in the morning to see what the world
was about.

It was past mid-day  indeed it only
wanted a few minutes to the hour when the
luncheon bell would be rung  when, glancing
from the library window. Jack observed
a waterproof female figure struggling

against the wind, making headway under
difficulties towards the house. On the
nearer approach of the much-be-hundled-up
individual, it proved to be Miriam Spencer.

What on earth can bring the girl out in
such weather as this ? " exclaimed Jack, as,,
rising up on hospitable thoughts intent, he
hurried out into the hall, sans ceremonie, to
receive and help to relieve her of her wraps.

It appeared that Clarice had written to her
the day before, asking her to lunch. Possibly
the events of the evening had driven
the matter from her mind, for she had forgotten
to mention it. Though Miriam
could not have the pony-chaise, that being
requisitioned elsewhere, she had braved the
weather rather than be deprived of the
pleasure of spending a few hours with " her
dear Clarice." Now, as it was Clarice's
desire to remain invisible for the day, the
entertainment of Miriam devolved on Jack,

who was by no means loth to undertake it.
The pleasure she derived from his society
was so patent on the surface that in a slight
degree it communicated itself to him, and
he was really glad to have an agreeable
occupation to work through a few heavy
hours of this dreary day.

Accordingly he took Miriam into his
custody, and exerted his best powers of
pleasing in her behalf. He had no need to
call out the reserve forces of his fascinations,
for whatever he said or did was just
the most delightful thing that could be said
or done by mortal man. His light phrases,
just touched with the gallantry which most
men use in their discourse with a young and
pretty woman, played like a sacred p8@an
on her foolish, fluttering heart.

Did any other man in all the world
possess such eyes as his ? and did 'he look
at any one else as he looked at her ? "

She had observed him with the Misses
Laurence and his Cousin Clarice, and certainly,
she thought, his eyes wore quite a
different expression when he looked at her !
And he  well, he was no gainer than most
men; but he did think that this icy, reserved
girl was beginning to thaw beneath
his benignant influence. He never thought
that while he was amusing himself he was
in any way acting ungenerously, or bringing
any danger near to her, or raising hopes in
her unsophisticated mind which he had no
intention of ever realizing. Strange that a
man who would punish a boy for robbing a
bird's-nest will, by a series of agreeable
depredations, steal a woman's heart, then
call her a fool for parting with it so easily !
But Jack was getting cynical with regard to
women and their feelings, and had not much
belief in their hearts or their affections
either.

They passed a very pleasant social hour
at the luncheon table. Jack declared that
she ate like a sparrow, and piled her plate
with the daintiest dishes  tempting little
delicacies, a great contrast to the meagre,
commonplace fare at home ; and Miriam
had as much capacity for enjoying good
things as a pronounced epicure, though not
such discriminating taste. All pleasant
things seemed crowding upon her at once.
While her appetite was being feasted with
perfect fare, her ears were being tickled with
pretty nothings, and her heart trembling
beneath the gaze of those wonderful dark
eyes, shooting invisible arrows out of their
quiet corners, and inflicting a delightful
wound with every one.

Both gentlemen did their best in Clarice's
absence to make things agreeable to their
unexpected guest. Poor Miriam was in the
seventh heaven, and thoroughly enjoyed the

unusual situation at finding herself the solitary
guest in this masculine element. She
had a sort of guilty feeling that she was
doing wrong, or rather not doing right.
Remaining there to be entertained by two
gentlemen was rather an outrage on conventional
propriety ; but she had not strength
to withstand temptation, and perhaps enjoyed
herself all the more from feeling she
was feasting on forbidden fruit, never heeding
whether it would impair her moral
digestion or no.

When luncheon was over Mr. Fleming's
attentions grew rather wearisome. He took
her into his sanctum, and insisted on showing
her a new beetle, a peculiarly hideous
monster, with crooked horns and shining
green wings ; he placed it beneath a
thousand-power magnifying-glass, enlarging
the hideosity to such a frightful degree that
she was inclined to run away from it. He

would have spent an hour in point mg out
the difference between the structure of this
special object and others of the same class.
He was himself so deeply interested in
entomological subjects that he could not
understand the indifference of other people
to what in his eyes was an all-important
study ; but Jack came to the rescue, saying
with an air of comical reproach 

' You would hardly think that a man of my
uncle's reverend appearance and really kind
heart could spend his time in hunting down
these miserable objects and impaling them
alive. It is a barbarous amusement."

' One must take a broad view of these
matters, my dear boy," said the old man,
serenely ;  my researches are in the interest
of science."

Science has benefitted by the study of
beetles ! " observed Jack. " I think there
ought to be a society for the protection of

butterflies and beetles, as well as cats and
dogs."

' The smallest thing that adds weight in
the scale of science ought not to be overlooked,"
said Mr. Fleming, who was used
to having a passage-farms with his nephew.

Poor old Science ! " exclaimed Jack; '' if
it keeps its fires alight with such tiny fuel,
the sooner it is extinguished the better."

'' Like the rest of the world, you are too
apt to despise small things, Jack ; remember,
the whole world is composed of infinitesimal
atoms."

And humanity built up on chemical productions
 phosphorus, lime, etc," laughed
Jack; "and the immortal soul developed
through a course of roast-beef and apples,
or pork and beans, and kept in its illuminating
perfection by doses of champagne and
brandy till the final fizz, when it takes itself
off to another world."

' You are not a bad specimen of a man and
a double first, Jack," said his uncle, restoring
the beetle to its sacred shrine ; *' but you
are a bad hand at philosophy."

* Kill philosophy and let me live ! " exclaimed
Jack, as, turning to Miriam, he
added, ** When you have finished this
scientific skirmishing with my uncle, Miss
Spencer, perhaps you will honour me with a
moment's attention?" Miriam declared
that she was ready to honour him at once.
*' Well," he added, *' I was going to ride
over to the Rectory this afternoon, but if you
will allow me I shall have much pleasure
in driving you home in my dog-cart."

She would be delighted to be so driven ;
but was there no chance of her seeing Clarice,
even for five minutes, before she left ?

' I fear not  she won't even see m,"
said Jack.

' She is not very well," said Mr. Fleming;

' and if the slightest thing ails Clarice,
she prefers being alone  contrary to most
women, who like to be coddled."

** She takes after me," exclaimed Jack.
** I enjoy pain; I luxuriate in a toothache
or a touch of the gout ; but I like to enjoy
these luxuries in private. Like the wounded
bear, I would fly from the world, sit on my
haunches under a juniper-tree, and suck my
paws in peace."

Miriam's heart danced for joy at the idea
of having Jack for her escort home, anas
there was no likelihood of her seeing Clarice,
she put on her things at once. The weather
had cleared considerably, but it was still
grey and dreary. The dog-cart was soon
brought round, and before they started, Jack
saw that she was properly shawled, and
wrapped his own plaid round her. She was
almost stifled and smothered by his kindness,
but she would rather have died than rebelled

against his over-care ; it was so sweet to bethe
one object of solicitude, to be taken care
of by him.

'there, I think you are all right now,"
he exclaimed, giving her a final tuck-up, as he
sprang into the seat beside her ; and taking
the reins and the whip from the groom, he
gave it a crack, a flourish in the air, and they
were off. " Are you pretty comfortable ? " he
added, looking down upon her with a bright
smile.

'' Blissfully happy ! " her heart responded ;
but her lips only said demurely, 'quite,
thank you."

That's all right," he rejoined, heartily.
There is still a nasty drizzling damp in
the air, but we can enjoy a good spin for
all that. I've not had much chance of
getting you behind a fast trotter before,
have I ? "

She fancied from his tone that his desires
in that respect had been cruelly frustrated.

Yon have never invited me before," she
answered, softly.

*' Ah, no," he answered, with an accent
which she translated into a regretful sigh,
'' I aren't do it. I was afraid of being
snubbed." A moment's pause, then he
added, '' and no man likes to be snubbed by
a pretty woman I "

So they thought her beautiful too !  he
did not particularize her, but his voice said
as much.

'I  I shouldn't have snubbed you," she
said softly, looking down, her cheeks glowing
crimson.

'' No ? I wish you hadn't told me that
now ; it is too late  if I had only known it
before ! "

He stopped suddenly. She glanced up
in his face, but he was looking straight
between his horse's ears. She waited breathlessly
for him to continue ; but his thoughts

seemed to have wandered away  he had
lost their thread; his attention was diverted
to the horse. Presently he said, irrelevantly,
*' Would you mind my lighting a cigarette?
Do you object to smoke ?  some people like
it."

If he had asked her if she  objected " to
the odour of the sewers, or perfume of stale
cabbage-water, she would have answered
**No! she considered both delightfully refreshing,"
to such a state of imbecility had
he unintentionally reduced her. Luckily he
did not know the extent of the damage he
had done.

He kept the mare at a fast trot ; the
ground seemed to fly beneath its feet. Why
was he hurrying so ? He was going the
shortest way too ! The minutes were flying,
they would be home soon  too soon ! and
this delightful drive would be over. Why
had he broken off in the middle of that

suggestive speech ? He had said it was too
late  too late for what? The words kept
buzzing about her ears. He had relapsed into
silence ; still the ground flew beneath the
horse's feet  the village was already in sight.
Then a thrill of delight ran through her
veins : perhaps he was shaken with agitation
like herself, and from the same cause ! She
was inexperienced in mankind, and could
not read the signs of the time. With a
desperate effort she tried to evoke the spirit
of speech ; the words that buzzed about ber
brain found their way to the tip of her
tongue as she echoed the words he had
already forgotten. You said it was * too
late;' what did you mean ? Too late for
what?"

** Ah ! yes, of course you don't understand
 how should you ? " he exclaimed,
leaping back to the old position. "Why,
too late to inaugurate a series of plea-vol.

I. 16

sant drives, which I should very much like
to do."

Why ? the summer is only beginning !"

"Ay, but I am going away  I leave
Penally tomorrow."

There was a moment's pause ; for that
moment she could not speak. Then feeling
she must say something, she echoed his
words, but all the light and life had died
out of her voice ; it sounded as though she
were speaking through the mists of dreamland.


"Going away ! leave Penally tomorrow ! "

"Yes, I'm off tomorrow," he answered,
perfectly oblivious and blind to her emotion.

To-morrow !  that's sudden," she observed,
faintly.

"It is rather sudden," he answered; rejoining
cheerfully, " but don't be afraid, our
yachting excursion shall come off all the
same. I shall run down again in a month

or two to see how you are all getting along."
Another brief silence ; then he seemed to
have some little difficulty in bringing
Clarice's name upon the tapis. He added,
*' I am glad to leave my cousin Clarice with
such a dear good little friend as you. I
dare say you will see a good deal of one
another. I hope you will  she will be very
dull else."

Miriam mumbled some suitable reply.
She was glad they were driving, glad that
his attention was occupied by his mare, thS-t
he could not see her tell-tale face and read
the bitter disappointment she was feeling. If
he had only expressed some regret at going!
Just a few words would have comforted her
so much ! But then he had spoken cheerily
of coming back, and alluded to their yachting
excursion  that showed how much he
had kept her in his mind. A grain of hope
is enough to keep a hungry love alive, and

she gathered up all the crumbs that had
been scattered through the last few weeks
of their intimacy, and they formed quite a
goodly heap in her mind's eye ; and her heart,
which had beaten so tumultuously a few
moments ago, settled down to its old pulsation
when they drove up to the Eectory
door. As he lifted her from the dog-cart,
she fancied he gave an extra pressure to
her hand as he said 

'ewe have had a pleasant drive, haven't
we ? But you look a little tired  are you ? "

Not at all," she answered, his tone of
solicitude jarring upon her nerves, she
hardly knew why; **I could have driven
for hours longer."

He tied his mare to the gate, as there was
no one near to take charge of it, and followed
her into the house. Mr. and Mrs. Spencer
were down the village on their usual round of
inspection, but were expected every minute.

I will wait," said Jack. *' I must have
a few words with your father before I
leave."

What could he have to say to her father?
She glanced up in his face  it was inscrutable.
He walked to the window, and stared
out over the fields in a preoccupied way ;
she sat down and played nervously with her
gloves.

*' Mr. Swayne," she said, softly.

At the sound of his name he turned and
threw himself into a chair by her side, and
looked at her with responsive inquiry.

'* Could you  would you mind telling me
what you want to say to papa ? "

Jack shook his head.

 He might not approve, you see, and
then what should I do ? "

*but he would  I am sure he would!"
she exclaimed, a rosy flush suffusing her
cheek, and a light sparkling in her eyes.

*' Is it  is it anything about vie ? " she added,
with alluring sweetness.

'why, yes!" he answered; "but how
came you to guess that ? " She dropped her
eyes and said nothing. '' If I can get your
father's consent, I hope I shall have yours.
I know it is a good deal to ask a girl to
leave home on such short notice, and I'm
afraid you'll be rather dull up there."

'' Up where ? " inquired Miriam, getting
rather befogged.

'' Didn't I tell you ? Well you see, we,
my uncle and I, are afraid Clarice will be
rather dull when I am gone. I help to
keep things lively, you know. She is in low
spirits, and we think if you would go up and
spend a week at the Manor House, it would
cheer her up."

Before Miriam had time to recover her
fluctuating senses her parents drove up to
the door, and hearing their voices in the

hall, Jack went out to greet them. They
were always cordiality itself to any member
of the Manor House family, but Jack was a
special favourite. They stood a few minutes
exchanging the usual civilities, and on the
trio betaking themselves to the drawing-room
Miriam had disappeared. Jack soon
broached the subject of his visit, which was
to say Au revoir'' and beg them to allow
Miriam to pay a week's visit to the Manor
House, when, he assured them, both his
uncle and Clarice would do all in their
power to make the visit agreeable. They
were certain of that, and sure that Miriam
would have much pleasure in accepting the
invitation. Mrs. Spencer waxed hospitable,
and offered him tea ; her husband, still more
hospitably inclined, pressed him to stay to
dinner. But Jack's eye caught the look of
dismay on the lady's face as she ran over
the resources of the larder, and doubted if

it would hold out against this additional
onslaught; her anxiety was relieved by
Jack's prompt refusal.

On entering her daughter's room, about
an hour after Jack's departure, she was
astonished to find that Miriam had flung
herself upon her bed and was weeping
bitterly.

*' Why, Miriam, my dear child ! what on
earth is the matter ? "

* Nothing, mamma," exclaimed Miriam,
startled at her mother's unexpected coming.

 Nothing!" echoed Mrs. Spencer, with
incredulous emphasis.

I mean, nothing particular," replied
Miriam, with a watery ghost of a smile.
* I  I'm overtired I think, and a little

nervous."

' Nervous ! fiddlestick ! " repeated Mrs.
Spencer, still more incredulously. ' Our
family have never been afflicted with nerves;

and the idea of your setting up such, things
is simply ridiculous ! "

However, she looked rather anxiously
at Miriam's pale face and swollen eyes,
while she ran over in her mind every
possible disease that came with those
symptoms.

** It has been a very sudden seizure, my
dear child," she added, feeling her pulse
and her hot hands sympathetically. '* I'm
afraid you are sickening for something
dreadful. A stitch in time saves nine-i'll
send for Dr. Parkes at once."

* Please don't. Mamma; indeed I'm not
ill  not sickening for anything. If you will
leave me alone for a little while I shall be
all right."

The idea of Mrs. Spencer letting anybody
alone, while there was a chance of getting
anything out of them by a system of inquisitorial
worry ! As soon would a dog

leave worrying a bone or a cat a mouse
while there was a pulse of life in it ! She
sat down, looking puzzled and bewildered,
watching Miriam as she bathed her eyes
and smoothed her disordered hair. She
was not going to be shut out of her daughter's
confidence, while there was a crevice
through which she could creep into it. The
possibility of a young nature having any
secret sacred thoughts or feelings never
entered her mind ; to her there was nothing
sacred outside the Bible. Her inquisitorial
process drew nothing from Miriam but
silence and fresh falling tears. She probed
her on every side. At last a light seemed
slowly to break upon her. She gazed at
Miriam with wondering astonishment as
she said 

'why, Miriam, child!  but it is impossible,
it can't be!" Then she added,
disgusted with accents, ** Surely you are

not crying because that young man's going
away ! " Could any girl plead guilty to such
an accusation?

'' Don't say that, Mamma ! " said Miriam,
deprecatingly ; '4f you knew how it hurt me,
you wouldn't."

' You had better confide in me, and tell
me all about it. I thought no good would
come of your intimacy up there. But it is a
wicked world ! How far have things gone
between you ? It is most dishonourable of
a man to entangle a young woman without
her parent's knowledge ! " she added, her
wrath rising on her daughter's silence. ** I
will speak to your father; he shall go upto
the Manor House and have things put
straight. I'll have no crooked dealings
with my family ! Though we are Christians,
we can't submit to be trampled on."
Then struck by a sudden thought, she added,
** And who knows but their handsome subscriptions

maybe some devil's bait ! But I'll
soon find out."

Miriam struck in, in great alarm 

** Oh, Mamma ! Mamma ! Don't speak
of such dreadful things ! I should die of
shame. There is not, there never has been,
anything between me and Mr. Swayne."

 ' And do you mean to say that you have
fallen so low as  as to be in love with a man
without any encouragement ? why, that's
worse and worse ! A daughter of mine  
brought up on my own principles too ! I
declare it is quite shocking ; you can't be iii
your right mind ! "

* Nobody is ever always quite right in
everything," murmured Miriam.

' Don't talk in that heathenish way,"
retorted her mother; 'no proper well-regulated
mind ever allows itself to go wrong.
Well, I've always heard that women are
weak creatures, but I never thought a child

of mine would be accused of weakness ; but
if you take all the blame on yourself, and
assure me that he has made no advance,
never said anything "

** He never has," exclaimed Miriam,
anxious to do justice to the unconscious
Jack ; '' but  I think  he sometimes looked
as though he wanted to ! "

 Bah ! if a man wants to say a thing, he
generally says it ! "

** Jemima ! Jemima!" sounded the
Eector's voice, calling up the stairs.

' Oh stop. Mamma ! " exclaimed Miriam,
as Mrs. Spencer was about to hurry out in
answer to his call. " Don't say anything to
vex papa ; indeed there is no need."

' I wouldn't say anything to him for all
the world," answered Mrs. Spencer solemnly;
** he would be too much horrified and distressed,
and I don't know where the end of
it would be." Her portentous, melancholy

tone roused Miriam's spirit at last, and she exclaimed,
with a touch of anger in her voice 

 There has been no beginning; and I
don't see why you should talk in such a way,
as though some one had done some dreadful
thing. There is no wrong anywhere. If you
had not surprised me, you would never have
known whether I have any heart, any feeling
or not. Surely there can be no harm in
thinking well of, and caring a little for, a
good, true man, whom one has  seen  so
much of"  and Miriam nearly broke down
again.

*' There are two kinds of good  good and
good-for-nothing ; and most men belong to
the good-for-nothing class."

Jemima 1 Jemima ! " called the impatient
Eector again.

'' There, my dear, dry your eyes," she
added, patting the girl's cheek and giving it
an affectionate peck  her nearest approach

to a caress ; ''I am not angry. I think you
can't be well; you're feverish. Say your
prayers ; and you shall go through a little
course of medicine, and you'll soon get over
this folly. These things have a great deal
to do with the liver."

With this last scrap of consolation, she
departed. Nevertheless she was feeling
greatly exercised in mind to find the least
crack in the Spencerian armour ! That
there should be any fallibility in the family
was a shock and a surprise to her ; and that
that fallibility should break out on Miriam's
side  Miriam, who had been cut out on her
own pattern, nourished on her own principles
 was the greatest surprise of all.

AFTER A STORM.

AFTER spending a few hours in considering
the situation fairly from all
points of view, Jack decided that it would
be wisest and best in all ways that he should
leave the Manor House for a time, till they
his uncle, Clarice, and himself  had grown
accustomed to the changed state of affairs ;
his absence would relieve them all from
temporary constraint and embarrassment.
While they were all three under one roof,
meeting and mingling their daily lives together,
the ghost of the old long-cherished
hope would stir in their hearts  it would

not be laid beyond the pale of resuscitation.
Although he knew it was dead, and could no
more be raised to life than could the dead
lying fathoms deep beneath the sea, yet he
could not persuade his uncle to that effect.
The old man clung to his cherished idea
with obstinate pertinacity in the face of the
most adverse facts ; it had grown so deep-rooted
in his heart as to be a part of himself,
and he could no more tear it out than
you could tear up the roots of an old tree,
without killing the tree itself. Although
Jack had explained things in the plainest
and most decided manner, taking upon himself
the chief blame of crossing his uncle's
will, rather than laying the burden on
Clarice's shoulders, Mr. Fleming shook his
head impatiently, unbelieving.

* Things might be a little crooked just
now, but something would happen some
day to show Clarice what was good for her.

VOL. ! 17

Meanwhile, there need be no hurry ; of
course Jack could run away as he proposed,
for a few months, and then come back and
see how things were then."

By no means, by no argument, could the
old man be brought to loose his hold from
the one fixed point, viz., that his favourite
sister's son and the daughter of the one
woman who had made all life's light for him
should become man and wife, to have and
to hold one common inheritance, and unite
the wandering currents of two lives in one,
thence to flow on through generations yet
unborn in peace and love  knitting up the
unravelled and broken past into a perfect
pattern outspread in the future. It was a
romantic craze, harmless enough so long as
it was self-indulged, only dangerous when
engaged upon the strong endeavour to draw
together two natures which were set in
opposite directions ; and then dangerous to

a degree that neither could realize till the
hour of trial should come. However, for
the present all was amicably arranged  the
long morning conference had settled that.
Jack was to start as soon as possible, the
very next days indeed  as he had informed
Miriam Spencer. But of course he must
have an interview with Clarice before he
started; he would see her that evening if
possible.

On reaching home his first inquiry was
for Clarice. *' How was she ? and had she
left her room yet ? " Yes, but she had
kept in her room till nearly five o'clock, and
then took a sudden resolution to go out fora
walk. * Is my uncle with her ? " he inquired,
his brow contracting to a frown.
* No ; she was gone before any one even
knew that she was going, and left word with
Hans." For a moment he was inclined to
be angry that she had been allowed to go

out on such a day alone, especially as she
had been disturbed and unwell ; then he
reflected that she was always erratic in her
movements, and no one of the household
could, of course, in the slightest degree
control her coming and going. Without
another word, he turned on his heel and
went in search of her.

It was already dusk, and a drizzling rain
was beginning to fall. Which way had she
gone ? He pondered for a moment, and
then decided that it was most likely she
had gone down to the shore ; she loved the
sea in all its changing moods : no doubt he-should
find her there now, her restless spirit,,
perhaps, growing calmer in contemplating
the more restless weaves. Thither he bent,
his steps, casting searching glances round
him as he went along. Presently, about,
half a mile from home, he fancied he saw
something light moving among the trees

He hurried towards it ; he soon discovered
that it was a woman's skirts, and, on a still
nearer approach, that the woman was Clarice
herself. She was standing still now; in
another moment he was standing by her
side. She looked up in his face, laughed
quietly as she said 

* I knew you were coming  that's why I
stood still. I could have led you a nice
dance if I had liked, for I can run faster
than you."

** How did you know I was coming ?  y(5u
couldn't have seen me, for I came up from
behind. I trod lightly lest I might frighten

yon."

'' My heart heard you, I think. We often
hear and see in a strange, mysterious way,
without the use of either eyes or ears ; don't
you ? "

'*I think, Clarice dear, you give your
'mind's eye' too much liberty," replied

Jack; ' and I am sure we had better make
haste to get home. You must be mad to
go wandering through the wet woods on
such a day as this  and in those flimsy rags
too," he added, glancing at her Hight
dress.

* Don't call my pretty dress a 'flimsy
rag'" she answered; " and don't be cross,
please, Jack dear!" she added coaxingly.
'i've been think  think  thinking in the
house all day, till I felt stifled  as though
the walls would fall in and crush me. I
was obliged to come out. I can breathe
now; the soft winds and the rain have done
me good. You know the weather never
hurts me. If there had been a storm of
thunder and lightning I should have revelled
in it."

Come, let us hurry on, dear girl, and
revel by the fireside ; that will be the best
revelling for you. And  I want to talk to

you  there is something I wish to say to
you."

I shall be glad," she answered, half-breathlessly,
as he hurried her along so fast
in his anxiety to get her out of the damp
air, holding up the dripping branches for her
to pass under. Presently, as they neared
the house, glancing with a look of anxious
inquiry into his face, she said 

Jack, have you spoken to father yet 
about  about what we talked of last night ? "

'' Yes ; I explained the situation fully to
him," answered Jack.

*' And is he angry ? " she inquired. " The
dear old dad ! I can't bear to vex him."

'' You need not be disturbed in the
slightest degree," he answered, reassuringly ;
he'll never say a word to you upon the
subject  I don't suppose he'll ever allude
to it."

Ah ! but I shall know by his face if he

is feeling badly. It is not what he says,
but what he feels, I care about," she said.

' There, run away and change your wet
clothes ! " he exclaimed, as they entered
the house. " Come down again as soon as
you can ; " we have not too much time to
spare, for I must leave tomorrow. There,
not a word till you have changed your
things. I'll wait for you in the morning-room."


The process of changing did not take her
very long ; in the course of a few minutes
she came down again. She had thrown on
a negligee wrapper of pale blue, arranged
with clouds of creamy lace ; her beautiful
golden hair, smoothed back with a band of
blue ribbon, tumbled in a mass of graceful
coils and curls about her shoulders. A flush
of excitement was on her cheeks and in her
eyes as she hurried forward, laid her hand
upon his shoulder, and said

- '' Is it true, Jack ! Are you really going
away  at once ? "

He thought he had never seen her look
so lovely ; her touch thrilled him through,
and her face, in eager inquiry, was lifted so
near to his, he could feel the perfume of her
breath upon his cheek ; his eyes clung to
her, and his heart yearned over her. He was
seized with a double impulse  the one was
to shake her from him in despair, the other
was to clasp the sweet lithe form in. his
arms and never let her go ; but he mastered
that impulse, and with compressed lips kept
himself well in hand. He released himself
gently from her touch and seated her on the
lounge, himself beside her.

"Yes," he said, in a matter-of-fact way,
I'm going. I've been dawdling about a
long time. I couldn't leave you in all the
disorder of the move, you know ; but I
aught to be in town now. I've many little

matters of business to look after  and, however
much one may be tempted, it doesn't
do to neglect one's duties," he added, with
an imposing air, which, however, failed in
imposing either upon himself or her. Both
knew the key-note of his action, and both
ignored it.

''Xo," said Clarice, "it doesn't do to
neglect things. Of course we shall miss you
dreadfully; but it is right you should go."

Yes, it is right," he answered, with a
deep-drawn breath.

And I wish you would give up amusing
yourself. Jack," she added. "We always
hear so much of your going here, and going
there, and mixing in all sorts of gaieties ; but
we never hear of your doing, or thinking of
doing, anything."

My dear girl, I've been thinking of
doing something all my life ! " he answered ;
*' sometime I dare say I shall go into action'*

If you only would, Jack ! Father thinks
so much of you ; and if you could only make
a name in the world, he would be so proud.
And you could if you liked  you are clever
enough for anything; already you are a
barrister-at-law."

"Full fledged. I have gone through a
course of gluttony, and eaten my way to
that lofty eminence as a grub eats its way
to the heart of a cabbage."

But, having got so far, you can surely
do something more," she added, eagerly.
Go into court and make speeches ; I'm sure
you'd be able to talk and cross-examine, and
confuse and befog everybody, as well as the
greatest lawyer."

No doubt I could," he answered ; " but
so far on my travels through life I have
never found a solicitor insane enough to
trust me with a brief. You see I labour
under one great disadvantage : I am naturally

of a dilatory, ease-loving disposition, and
not being obliged to work, I lie idle and
bask in the sun. I consider that a comfortable
competence is absolute ruin to an
intelligent man  none but fools ought to
be born with silver spoons in their mouths.
I quite share your lofty opinion of my capabilities,
and believe that if I had been taken
by the scruff of the neck, like a blind puppy,
and flung into the world's whirlpool, I should
have opened my eyes and struck out for the
shore."

I never know how far you are joking or
how far you are serious, Jack," said Clarice ;
** but I do know, and I am sure father agrees
with me, that no man ought to lead such an
idle life as  as you do. Even if a man is
rich enough to live without work, wealth
entails its obligations, and he ought to do
something, if not for the good of himself,
for the good of his country."

' For the good of his country ! " echoed
Jack. 'Ah! now that sounds important.
Well, I don't suppose I shall ever be a
brilliant head-light to my country, but I'll
try  I really will try."

"Do," she rejoined, encouragingly; 'for
if things were to go wrong with you, I
should reproach myself for having done
something towards spoiling your life."

No true man allows his life to be spoilt
by a woman. No offence  but you know you
are a woman, Clary ! "

'' A woman  yes ; but how I wish I were
a man ! " she answered.

"Do you? Well, a woman is never
satisfied; if you were a man, you'd soon
wish to be something or somebody else."

Perhaps ! " she exclaimed, reflectively.
If I could choose, I should like to be
something that can neither tJdnh nor feel''

"An octopus, or a jelly-fish, eh?" he

suggested, looking down upon the lovely
face ; and in dread lest lie should be betrayed
into sentimental wanderings, he rushed into
the opposite direction, and got as far as
possible away from any tender or emotional
utterance. * I am afraid, as we can't choose
the casing for our immortal souls, you will
have to get along to the end of this world
as a mere woman ; in the next, matters maybe
arranged more to the general satisfaction."


' Ah, the next ! " she sighed ; '' but it is
such a long, weary while before wee get there.
Jack, and the travelling here is through such
hard and stony ways. I should like to goto
sleep lierey and wake up and find myself
there in the morning."
 ** I fancy we all have rather a hankering
after the impossible," replied Jack. '' For my
part, I regard this world as a place for preliminaries,
where we work hard for honours,

and take our degree on the higher planes of
the next ; meanwhile it is well to be content
in our wanderings here  contentment is a
great virtue."

' Is it?" she answered. ''J think content
is the poorest and most miserable of all
the virtues. Why every well-fed beast is
content ; the very ass browsing on his meal
of thistles is the picture of a beautiful content
! "

'If he is a wise ass, he is," exclaimed
Jack, 'because he has no chance of getting
anything better. AVe should do well to
follow his example."

''I don't think so," said Clarice. ''If
people were content with things as they
are, nobody would ever try to make them
better. Why every improvement, and all
the progress the world has ever made, is
due to the discontent of some special set of
people "

At this moment Mr. Fleming broke in
upon their interview, entering the room
with rather an anxious expression of face.

 You are just in time to save me, Uncle,"
exclaimed Jack, genially. * ' Clarice is trying
to entangle me in a philosophical discussion,
and I know her wits will so far outstrip
mine I shall be lost."

The cloud cleared from the old man's
face ; he was delighted to find them conversing
in so amicable a spirit, with no
cloud or the least constraint between them ;.
and so far from showing any vexation towards
Clarice, which she had feared he
might do, he was, if possible, more tender
than ever to her. He had been fretting
about her and things generally all the day
and it was a great relief to find her looking
like her best self. The order of things seemed
to be suddenly changed, and having once
left the seclusion of her room, she did not

return to it, but came down to dinner
dressed with even more care than usual,
with a bunch of purple violets on her breast
and in her hair  Jack's favourite flowers.
She was more charming and in brighter
spirits than ever. It might be that she was
too troubled to allow play to her natural
feelings, and masked her real agitation of
spirit beneath an assumption of gaiety which
she was very far from feeling. It often
happens that smiles are on the lips while
tears lie heavy on the heart.

She seemed to bring the whole battery
of her charms to bear upon, and endeavour
to break down, the outworks of fortitude and
resolve behind which Jack had entrenched
himself. If she had been the most accomplished
coquette she could not have
used her fascinations more dexterously;
whereas, she was really too innocent to be
actuated by any coquettishness whatever:

VOL. I. 18

she only seemed gay, and carried the seeming
to excess to save herself from breaking
down altogether. Jack entered into her
humour thoroughly, though he was not at
all deceived by her poor little affectations ;
he quite comprehended her real state of
mind, and appreciated her endeavour to
make these, his last hours at home, pass
pleasantly, with no visible restraint nor
painful episodes. He felt sorry for her,
sorry for his own bitterly disappointed
hopes, but no grain of anger against her.
Altogether she made his going away a
festive occasion, rather than one of regret.
She retired early to bed, evidently tired
and overwrought, for there were dark circles
round her eyes, and the corners of her
mouth drooped painfully. As he watched
her slowly ascending the stairs, he felt she
was carrying the Hight of the world away
with her.

He departed the next morning with no
more leave taking, no more last words. It
was best so, for last words are unsatisfactory
things ; all had been said that need be said.
So far all was well.

The proposed visit of Miss Spencer to the
Manor House fell through, as might have
been expected, as Jack's informal invitation
had not been supplemented by any urgency
on Clarice's part, and Mrs. Spencer threw
cold water on the idea.

The days passed on ; the absence of Hugh,
so speedily followed by that of Jack, completely
changed the aspect of life at the
Manor House  indeed, of Penally generally.
The brisk intimacy between the young people
seemed to flag somehow; it needed the
masculine element to keep it stirring and
strong. Sometimes it showed signs of dying
out altogether. Where there are no warm
sympathies, it needs some exertion to keep

even a weakly friendship alive. Thus it
happened that Clarice and Mr. Fleming
were more closely allied than ever, for their
constant companionship had been temporarily
broken by the influx of young
people  which was quite natural ; now they
gradually fell back into their old ways.

They wandered about the garden, planning
and directing the manifold improvements
and alterations, superintending the erection
of new greenhouses, the making of forcing-beds,
etc., watching with great interest the
things that were growing under their own
eyes. They would take long rambles
through the woods, over the hills, or along
the shore ; he endeavouring to train her in
his way of thought, and imbue her with
his love of research, from small matters
deducing great arguments. She always
received his teaching with profound respect,
but little understanding. Like most

scientific men, lie used big words for small
matters, which confused rather than enlightened
her mind; still she grew more
and more interested in his pursuits. This
might arise from the absence of any other
mode of excitement. His attempts to train
and teach her in the regular scientific mode
failed miserably; but when he dropped
technicalities, and talked in a pleasant
gossipy kind of way, she was interested and
instructed at the same time. In one of
their ramblings through the woods they
came upon a wide pond or pool, partially
overgrown with weeds and long rank grasses,
where myriads of tiny atoms were swimming,
crawling, or darting hither and thither upon
the muddy banks or in the stagnant water.
It was a wild, weird spot, with tall trees
and tangles of green luxuriant branches
stretching over and interlacing above it,
lying out of sight far from the woodland

path ; so lonesome and out of the way,
indeed, one could easily imagine some
ghastly crime lying silent and dumb beneath
the dark mysterious waters. In fact, some
tradition thereof lingered among the old
folk of the neighbourhood, but it was too
far away to be talked or thought much of 
things fade away from the memory as a
reflection fades from a looking-glass.

' What a damp, disagreeable place, father
dear," exclaimed Clarice, holding up her
skirts and peeping through the branches ashe
went downwards towards the pool.

'rit is not an attractive place," he
answered, " but I am seeking for one of
the wonders of nature, and it is here I
hope to find it." In the course of a few
minutes he came back to her with something
swimming about in his green glass
bottle.

Why, it is nothing but a nasty mean

little ugly tadpole ! " exclaimed Clarice,
inspecting it with disgust.

' It is one of the wonders of .nature, my
dear child," he answered. I have got it
expressly for you, that you may watch with
your own eyes this mud fish, this limp,
hopeless, gill-breathing bit of animation,
developed into a perfect terrestrial creature,
with heart and lungs, brain and bones, with
sharp eyes and four swift, restless legs ; in
fact, you may watch this miserable little
fish change to the lively frog ! Why, the
legerdemain and magic tricks of Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cook, which people flock
to see and wonder at, are nothing compared
with this miracle of nature, which takes
place every minute of every day, in every
muddy pond or pool, under our own eyes,
without waking a wonder or a thought !
Yet it is in contemplating these small
things we may read the great lesson of

evolution throughout the whole world of
nature, of which man is the most godlike
production. I can't understand how people
can watch the little crawling caterpillar
change into the bright beautiful butterfly,
and doubt that they themselves have
evolved from some other inferior creature !
The law of the universe, from the mighty
suns and stars in heaven to the tiniest
thing that creeps or grows on earth, is one
of constant progression, and why should
man suppose that he alone stands aloof,
exempt from this one great general law ?
It takes perhaps a few wrecks, or months, or
days, to perfect an inferior creature; while it
has taken millions and millions of years to
produce perfect man, at present the highest
and noblest type of creation."

' I don't think  I don't care about other
creatures ! " exclaimed Clarice ; " but I like
to think that tue were made in the image of

our Creator, and sent down fresh from the
hand of God, to Hve in an earthly paradise
for awhile till we are called back to
Him."

*' Like many older and wiser folk than
yourself, my child," he answered, *' you
would rather hug a pleasant fiction than
face a solemn fact. Well, if it makes you
happy, I suppose it is all right : those who
are earnest in their search for truth are not
so easily satisfied."

So the days passed on. Although there
was no bright sunshine in the moral
atmosphere of the Manor House, nor any
outward excitements, there was no eternal
commotion ; life glided on in a serene, quiet
fashion, as though time greased its wheels
that none might see how stealthily it was
stealing away the days and hours, so quickly
and imperceptibly the days glided by, as
only uneventful days do pass. It is the
VOL. I. 19

stirring, joyous time, full of events and
flushed with triumph, that swells and
lengthens the passing hour, and makes us
feel that we have lived a lifetime in a single
day. And yet during these calmer hours
which we count as nothing, the wheels
of the gods are grinding slowly ; the invisible
hands of the three weird sisters
are weaving our destiny, tracing the paths
that we must travel, whether we will or no.

CHAPTER XII.

AN UNWELCOME GUEST . . . . 23

CHAPTER XIII.

MRS. SPENCER DOES HER DUTY . . . 4-3

CHAPTER XIV

*'I\ THE HOUSE OF MINE ENEMY ! " . . 73

CHAPTER XV.

A DRAWN GAME . . . . . 96

Chapter XVI. PAGE

*hugh!" 121

CHAPTEK XVII.
love's young dream . . . . 141

Chapter XVIII.

Caprices CONFIDENCE . . . . 168

CHAPTER XIX.

UNEXPECTED SUMMONS . . . . 191

CHAPTER XX.

CHECKMATE ! . . . . . 216

BREAKERS AHEAD !

rPHE fair dove of peace had folded its
- wings, and sat brooding and cooing
above the old grey Manor House for six
whole weeks ; no adverse breeze had blown
to make it flutter its wings and fly. Full
ripe summer had come, and was flaunting
in all its glory of fruits and flowers, soft
airs and brilliant sunshine. Little social
had been carried on, hospitalities
given and received, throughout the scattered
society of Penally and its neighbourhood ;
each party paid back its debts to the other,
paid back its dinners and luncheons with
VOL. u. 2

scrupulous exactness. A failure in these
social responsibilities was enough to put
anybody in the pillory of public opinion.

A bankrupt in mercantile matters going
through the Common Court of Bankruptcy
has an easy time compared to him who
fails to pay society its dues. Those
Penallyites who failed in their social duties
were written down in their neighbours'
Book of Doom to be quietly ignored next
season, their names fading out as though
written with invisible ink, and gradually
erased from the general visiting-list. Of
course no one spoke plainly on the matter,
and no one dreamed of infringing the laws
of courtesy : but what law can prevent a
woman freezing while she smiles, or being
coldly aggressive in manner while scrupulously
polite in words ?

Society in a limited circle is perhaps
more exacting and stands more upon its

dignity, is stronger in its demands and
keener in its feelings, than when it has a
more extensive and varied growth. There
is as much punctiHousness, and the rules of
etiquette are as strictly enforced, among
the straggling community of this lonely
corner of the county, as though it were the
great metropolis itself. They arranged
their " season," their festivities, kettledrums
and garden parties, strictly on the
London plan, all news therefrom being
greedily devoured ; and they limped in a
poor, pretentious sort of way in the footsteps
of the fashionable crowd whirling and revolving
in the distant city. After all.
Society means much the same thing to
all sorts and conditions of men ; it is human
nature holding its revels and exchanging
its civilities, sometimes in fustian and
common homespun, sometimes in belated
and frizzled beauty, playing its antics,

and revolving in its own sphere, and about
as real and genuine as the harlequinade in
the Christmas pantomime  but not half so
amusing.

Well, Penally enjoyed itself, as it had a
right to do, according to its own pleasure,
but felt rather aggrieved, if not positively
outraged, by the attitude assumed and
maintained by the family at the Manor
House, who had never extended their
visiting-list beyond the three families with
whom they had made acquaintance on their
first arrival. All civilities and offered hospitalities
from other quarters were gracefully
received, but courteously declined, thus ina
general way increasing the hostile feeling
their first coming created ; thei people had
only suspected, now they were sure there
was something wrong, and waited till time,
which sooner or later makes all secrets
known, should tell them what.

Meanwhile the absent young men kept
up a continual correspondence Yith their
respective families, and all news thus
obtained was briskly exchanged through
the medium of Clarice Lemaire and Miriam
Spencer, for there was generally a message,
an inquiry, or some little item of gossip,
which the girls thought would be interesting
to one another; in fact, the absent ones
seemed to be the one link which bound
Clarice and Miriam together : in all but
the one interest, their sympathies and their
natures were as opposite as the antipodes.

One lovely July morning Clarice sat at
the head of the breakfast-table, prosaically
engaged in pouring out her father's coffee,
while he spelt over the latest news from
town. A flood of sunlight poured in through
the open window and mingled with the
golden aureole of her glorious hair, till it
seemed to become a part of it, and the

pleasant sea breeze, laden with the perfume
of flowers and the song of birds, swept
freely in. The view looking out from the
window was peaceful and lovely in the
extreme : the sea lay at rest in the circling
arms of the shore, its strong heart beating
faintly as its tender wavelets ran in low
rippling laughter along the edge of the
dimpled sand ; a few fishing-smacks with
brown patched sails were floating lazily upon
the water, and the hum of the bees and the
monotonous whirr of the happy insect world
seemed to make the morning drowsy, as
though it would like to shut its eyes and
rest too.

A beautiful picture of still-life it was,
both within and without the house. Clarice,
in the radiant beauty of youth, most flowerlike
and fair, was more gorgeous than usual
in her colours this morning ; her complexion
was more delicately, brilliantly fair  it

seemed as though the sun's kiss had
touched and ripened it to a dainty peach-ike
bloom ; even her deep violet eyes had a
gleam of the sunlight in them, as though
they had caught the reflected glow from
the mass of golden hair which lay coiled
like a crown upon her shapely head. She
wore a long pale-blue dress trimmed with
soft lace, with a knot of yellow roses on her
breast. So perfectly harmonious were the
colours blended one with the other, she
might have sat for a painter's study, " a
harmony in gold and blue." Opposite to
her, and in grave contrast, sat Mr. Fleming,
his good grey head uplifted, his kind eyes
resting now and then in tender affection
upon her. The usually anxious expression
of his face had faded fi*om it ; it seemed to
have caught the reflection of hers, which at
the present moment was calm and untroubled.
The agitating emotions which

generally disturbed the current of her life,
and sent those vague, mysterious waves of
light and shadow across her face  and
which those who loved her knew so well 
were at rest too.

As they sat chatting, he reading aloud
any interesting items or scraps of news that
came like an echo from the great world of
London to them in their seclusion here, a
telegram was brought in and delivered to
Mr. Fleming. These bits of yellow paper
generally bring bad news ; that is why they
are received always with some trepidation, a
sort of shrinking fear. Mr. Fleming glanced
through it and put it in his pocket, glancing
across the table at Clarice as he did so, and
saying

' Business, my dear, from the Bank."
There was a slight twitching at the corners
of his mouth, a gleam of something in
his eye, that looked as though the news it

brought was not of an exhilarating kind ;
but of this Clarice took no heed  the simple
words '* bank " and '' business " satisfied
her. The telegram read thus :

'' L. is in London  met him in the
Strand  shall keep an eye upon him."

It would not seem as though this brief
message could mean much to anybody; but
it meant a great deal to Mr. Fleming. It
disturbed him so much that for the rest of
the meal he relapsed into silence, broken
only when, by fits and starts, he addressed
some wandering words to Clarice, merely
for the sake of saying something, as they
were not a atropos of anything. Presently
he rose from the table in a preoccupied
kind of way and left the room, just patting
Clarice's head as he passed without saying
a word.

Clarice went through the daily routine,
the superintending of those trifling home

duties which fell to her share. For the house
was generally 'run" by Katrina, who was
a most efficient housekeeper as well as a
devoted nurse ; but Clarice liked to feel she
had a hand in the domestic arrangements,
and when her physical and mental health
permitted, was most scrupulous in the discharge
of the light fancy duties of her life,
which generally lay among the fruits and
flowers, conservatory and greenhouses ; then
she fed her birds, Jerry and Bouncer looking
solemnly on without attempting to molest
the feathered favourites, for they knew their
time would come ; they watched the lump
of sugar, the last token of affection, placed
between the bars of the canary's cage,
whereon the pretty creature commenced to
sing as though it would sing its heart out.
Jerry's excitement showed itself fi'om the
end of his nose to the tip of his tail, which
wagged as though it would wag itself off,

his greedy eyes fixed upon the macaroon so
temptingly held before him.

'' Now, Jerry ! " exclaimed his mistress.
Jerry knew what was expected of him, and
rose up on his hind-legs and gravely turned
round three times, then received the biscuit
on the end of his nose, threw it up in the
air and caught it in his mouth as a conjurer
catches his ball ; then he received the order
to " die," and he stretched himself out and
lay down, as though dead of indigestion.
Bouncer watched this gymnastic performance
with dignified contempt written on his
canine countenance, wondering that any
well-bred friend of his could condescend to
play such tricks. He, however, being only
a dog, had his temptations also, though
they were of a higher order ; he kept his
eye upon the silver sugar-bowl  therein lay
his temptation and sweet reward.

Now. Bouncer | " ey.'l'?A\r.?d his yours

mistress, " we will have a little discussion
all to ourselves ; you are a sensible dog
and understand things." Bouncer actually
laughed  dogs do laugh, as those who study
their physiognomies know full well  in appreciation
of the compliment ; and Clarice
proceeded to inquire his opinion of a certain
statesman whose policy was then the general
topic of conversation. Now Jack had been
Bouncer's political trainer, and educated
him on such principles as he deemed most
truly patriotic, and on the mention of the
obnoxious name the British dog showed his
teeth, snarled fiercely, and ended with a
series of low growls, as though he had
swallowed his enemy, who did not sit easy
on his digestion. At the name of the
Prince of Wales he sang, beating an accompaniment
rhythmically with his tail; and
for Queen Victoria he gave three such joyous
barks they echoed through the house. He

was rewarded by the delicate sweetmeat,
which lie took from his mistress's hand ;
the idea of putting it on his nose was an
insult not to be thought of  his canine accomplishments
were of a higher order than
those of his friend and companion.

Clarice then took them both for a scamper
through the woods. Glancing across the
lawn as she went along, she observed Mr.
Fleming pacing slowly up and down between
a double row of limes, with his arms
folded, his head bowed upon his breast.
On her return, in about half an hour, she
found him still pacing up and down in precisely
the same attitude. She never liked
to break in upon his thoughtful moods, but
she was tempted to do so now. She tripped
lightly across the grass, stood by his side,
slipped her hand in his, and walked with
him slowly up and down. He took no notice
of her movements  indeed seemed even unconscious

of her presence ; the inquiring
look upon her face evoked no answer, but
with the same dull brooding on his brow he
moved monotonously to and fro. Presently,
when she could bear the silence no longer,
she said coaxingly 

"Dad, darling, what troubles you ? Won't
you tell me ? "

He stopped then, as though suddenly
recalled to himself. Taking her uplifted face
between his hands, he kissed her forehead.

'' Child, is it so strange that I should
enjoy a little stroll alone ? Why do you
think I am troubled ? "

"I don't think, I know; it was that
telegram  what was it about ? May I
see it ? "

Pooh ! why should you want to see it ?
You wouldn't understand."

'* But you could explain "

'' There are some things I don't care to

explain or talk about," he answered quickly,
as though he disapproved of her questioning.
'life is full of complications, my dear, but
we have to struggle through them somehow
somehow. I  I sometimes wish I were
well out of it all. If only you were safe
and happy, child, I would like to walk
straight out of this troublous world this
very day."

' You would have to take me with you,
then," she answered, nestling closer to him;
I wouldn't stay an hour in the world
without 50 u."

' That is nonsense, my child; I shall have
to die some day  and I think  it will be
soon."

'' Don't be so cruel ! " exclaimed Clarice,
tears starting to her eyes ; " if you were to
die I think I should die too  it seems impossible
that we can part for ever and ever
with those we love."

*' We do not part for ever. It is my firm
faith that we two shall walk together in the
light of a brighter, better world than this,
even as we now walk through this  with
our souls purified, our bodies dust."

*'I shouldn't care for that  it wouldn't
be the same thing. It is your very self I
love, the you who are here ?ioio, walking and
talking with me : there you will be a mere
voiceless echo of yourself  a poor, chilly,
miserable ghost  a bodiless essence in a
world unknown ! I should shrink from you
then, as much as I cling to you now : it is
to the human creature we cling with all our
human love  when that is gone and buried
in the cold earth, all is gone from us. I
should like to feel that when I leave this
world no part of me will ever live again
anywhere." ' < :

'ewe cannot rule these things for ourselves,
my dear child. Depend upon it, our

Creator lias arranged all things for the best ;
it is only the worst part, the mere dross of
oui' nature, that perishes here  the better
part lives on in a better world."

''I don't know  I don't care about that.
It takes two halves to make a whole, and if
one part of my nature is here, and another
part there, why it wouldn't be me at all ;
I'd as soon be dissolved into nothing at
once ! "

Mr. Fleming did not care to prolong the
conversation, for whenever they drifted into
vague speculations they got lost. Besides,
he wanted to be alone  Clarice had joined
him against his will; and he had a new
anxiety upon his mind now, and he wanted
to be alone, to put certain p?'05 and cojis side
by side and decide what he would do under
certain conditions. How fond we all are of
doing that  making our plans, what we will
say and what we sill do, arranging and

VOL. II, 3

dovetailing events and circumstances, fighting
our imaginary battles under imaginary
conditions which never occur. We are not
the commanders of fate  the battle opens,
and the conflict takes place on quite a
different ground, and we are forced to face
circumstances we had never contemplated.
Things straighten themselves out without
any aid or guidance of ours, and our air-built
castles are blown down with a breath.

Clarice felt rather than saw that there
was something wrong, but she troubled him
with no more questioning, but vaguely
wondered what the ' business " was.

In the afternoon, as she was trying over
some music which Jack had lately sent
down from town, Mr. Fleming came hurriedly
into the room with a cloth wrapped
about his hand and wrist.

' I have had a little accident, my dear
child and cut my hand  it is an ugly gash'*

' Don't let me see the blood," exclaimed
Clarice, hastily, as she rose up shivering and
sii\i averted eyes. "You know the sight
of blood frightens me."

' It is nothing at all serious, but I think
I had better go down to Parkes and have it
properly strapped up."

' We'll have the carriage round at once,
and I'll go with you," exclaimed Clarice,
following her suggestion with prompt action.
In a few minutes  that is, as soon as the
horses could be put to  the carriage was at
the door ; Clarice ran down hatted and
gloved, and they were off. Fortunately Dr.
Parkes was at home, having just returned
from his afternoon round ; Mr. Fleming
accompanied him into the surgery, and his
hand was duly examined. ' It was an ugly
cut," he said, " and had just escaped being
.a serious one."

Meanwhile, as the Doctor was attending

to her father, Clarice sat chatting with Miss
Parkes, the Doctor's maiden sister, who
kept his house and looked after his bodily
comforts as well as his spiritual welfare ;
she was rather a tiresome companion, too
much given to dwell upon her ailments and
on the attractions and triumphs of the days,
that were gone.

She had once had a profile and a complexion,
and could not forget that she had
lost both. Though the years had stolen away
her charms, and rigorously destroyed every
vestige of beauty, both of form and face, she-wandered
through the realms of art in search
of it ; she would not be content to bury her
dead youth under a cloud of black lace and
piety, as some women do. She tried to-renovate
herself, but she was like a faded
old doll that has lost its paint, and no
pinching or patching would restore it to its.
old state.

Not very long had Clarice sat with
this lady, rather hoped by her twaddling
talk, when the genial Doctor and Mr.
Fleming reappeared, the wound having been
sewn lip and properly bandaged. The
Doctor was always glad to see Clarice ; he
regarded her somewhat in the light of a
psychological puzzle, and he would have
liked to take her to pieces  mentally, not
bodily, for he could have made no improvement
in her lovely form or face, but if he
could have dissected her mind he would
have left out some crooked, ill-fitting bits,
and put her together again perfect in mind
as well as in body. Clarice liked him too,
though she rather rebelled against the kind
of mesmeric influence he had over her. She
did not exactly know what it was, but when
she was under his eye she felt compelled
to speak when she would rather have been
silent, and to say things she would rather

have left unsaid. After a little brief commonplace
chat, they were about to take
their departure when old Ben came hobbling
up from the gate ; his errand was brief-
there had been an accident at or rather
near the station, and the Doctor's services
were needed forthwith.

*' Jump into my carriage," exclaimed Mr.
Fleming; ' we shall be half-way there
before your gig is ready, and time is
precious. Clarice, you will stay with Miss
Parke s ; I will call for you on my return."

He bore away with him a lighter heart
than he would carry again for many a long
day thereafter.

AN UNWELCOME GUEST.

AT the station all was '' confusion worse
confounded." About a quarter of a
mile before reaching the platform, the axle-bar
of the engine had suddenly snapped ;
it left the rails and went ploughing along
the line for some hundred yards, dragging
the train of affrighted passengers after it ;
then it rushed down the slight embankment,
the carriages toppling over and crashing
after it, the two first carriages being a complete
wreck. The hind-part of the train,
though swinging and swaying from side to
side, had still kept to the rails ; the passengers,

though terribly shaken, quickly
descended to the help of their more unfortunate
fellow-travellers, who had been
hurled down the embankment with the
fore-part of the train, and now lay entangled
among the woodwork and splintered fragments
of the wrecked carriages. The cries
and moans of the wounded men, women,
and children were piteous to hear, and the
sight was terrible to behold ; legs, arms,
and bodies being so entangled with the
debris, it seemed impossible they could be
extricated whole and alive. Some had managed
to crawl out of the windows, white
and bruised, their nerves too shattered to
allow them to be of much use to the injured.
By the time Dr. Parkes and Mr.
Fleming arrived upon the scene, the breakdown
gang was on the spot, and their
arrangements for rescuing the wounded
were being energetically carried out. Unfortunately,

being an excursion train, it
was crowded with pleasure-seekers  the
happy, light-hearted holiday-makers, little
anticipating such a disastrous end to their
day's outing ; but fortunately no one was
killed, though many were seriously wounded.
Our interest lies chiefly with one. Dr.
Parkes plunged into his work at once, and
was busily engaged attending to those
sufferers who had been already rescued and
lifted on to the side of the track. Mr.
Fleming, too, busied himself to the best of
his ability, lending a hand, anywhere or in
any way, where it was most needed.

"This way somebody, for God's sake!"
exclaimed a voice at his elbow. Glancing
up with a startled look, his eyes fell on Jack
Swayne, with a white, scared look upon his
face. Neither uttered a word of recognition
or of surprise at this unexpected meeting.
In moments of supreme excitement we do

not express surprise at anything ; indeed in
the shaken state of our senses we don't even
feel it.

Hes Jiere,'' added Jack, in a horrified
whisper; 4ie's hurt  he may be dead."
He hurried Mr. Fleming along with him to
where a knot of people were gathered atone
spot, engaged in the endeavour to
extricate some one who was buried beneath
the debris. It was an elderly man, with
iron-gray hair clinging matted and bloodstained
about his temples; his hands lay
nerveless ; his eyes were closed, and his face
looked as though it had been drained of
every drop of blood. They had just succeeded
in freeing him from his perilous
position, and the rough bearded men, with
hands gentle as the hands of women, lifted
him on to the bank.

Dr. Parkes was speedily upon the spot,
and he examined the injured man as well

as he was able to do under the circumstances.
His professional eye evidently
regarded the case gravely, and having done
all he could do for the moment, he suggested
that the patient should be carried to the
nearest house. Perhaps some of the peasantry
could be found willing to take care
of him ; or perhaps he could be received and
better cared for at the Need Lion, the most
decent inn in the neighbourhood. Mr.
Fleming, who had been regarding the injured
man with an inscrutable countenance,
and a hard cold glitter in his eyes, touched
the Doctor's arm lightly and inquired 

 Is he dangerously hurt ? "

*' Somewhat seriously, I fear," he answered;
'but I hope not dangerously. When
I can make a more thorough examination
I shall be able to give a more decided
opinion. Meanwhile, I know he will require
good nursing and great care."

- * Which he cannot expect to get at the
Need Lion," said Mr. Fleming ;  and at the
cottage they certainly have no accommodation
for an invalid. Let him be taken nj
to the Manor House ; he will be sure of
proper attention there."

*' That is just the good, kind thing I
should have expected of you ! " exclaimed
Dr. Parkes, in hearty appreciation, as he
turned to give orders for the removal without
delay.

' Can I take him in the carriage ? "
inquired Mr. Fleming.

** You might," returned the Doctor, *' but
it would be difficult ; it is easier to improvise
a litter. I'll see to that."

*rand perhaps I had better hurry home
to prepare the household for  what they are
going to receive," he added slowly, unconsciously
uttering the grace before meat.

*' That will be best ; I'll see he is properly

despatched, and I'll follow myself as soon
as I have done all I can do here. Put him
to hed  his head and shoulders raised, and
lathe the wounds, hut do nothing more till
I come."

Several other medical men had now
arrived upon the spot, and they helped in
lightening his labours. Jack, who had
heard his uncle's offer with amazement,
now stepped to his side, and whispered in
his ear 

'' What are you thinking of? Is it well,
is it wise, to have hi?}i at the Manor
House ? "

** Yes," replied Mr. Fleming, in the same
undertone. " It is hest to have mine
enemy under mine own roof  there I can
keep good watch and ward over him.  The
mad dog is hest in his own kennel.' "

Jack seemed to understand his uncle's
motive, and acquiesced in his proposition.

The old man went with lagging steps, as
though his feet, as well as his heart, were
leaden weighted, towards his carriage.

' You are coming, my boy ? "

** Not while I can be of any use here,"
Jack answered ; then, as though struck by
a sudden thought, he added excitedly, before
he turned away 

** Clarice ! in God's name, how can we
prepare her for this ? "

' I don't know  I'm dazed at present,"
he answered, passing his hand wearily across
his brow; adding,  She must be our first
thought; but she shall be cared for. Jack,
she shall be cared for  no fear of that."

Love seemed to give strength and decision
to his voice and to his spirit, for he stepped
briskly into the carriage and ordered the
coachman to call at Dr. Parkes's house on
the way home, and to '* drive quickly."
The horses flew, as with winged feet, over

the ground, and in an incredibly short time
stopped at the Doctor's residence. Miss
Parkes and Clarice were strolling about the
garden, waiting somewhat impatiently to
learn what had really happened at the
station. Mr. Fleming descended, with no
signs of trepidation in his manner.

 I hope it was not a bad accident, father
dear ? " said Clarice, anxiously.

Well, yes, my dear child, it has been a
very serious accident, but it might have
been worse."

** Everything that happens might be
worse," exclaimed Miss Parkes, frigidly ;
* it is bad enough to be hanged, but it
would be worse to be drawn and quartered."

Mr. Fleming humbly acquiesced, and then
gave her her brother's message.

I was to tell you not to expect him
home till you see him. And Clarice, my
dear, I have arranged for one of the injured

passengers to be taken up to the Manor
House  and  Miss Parkes, your brother was
good enough to suggest that this troublesome
child of mine should remain with you
for a few days."

*' But, father dear!" exclaimed Clarice,
' why cannot I come home and help in the
nursing ? ' '

* You are better away," he answered;
*' the gentleman is seriously injured. We
shall have our hands full  we don't know
how things may turn out. You know, dear
child, how nervous and sensitive you are !
It will lessen my anxieties to feel you are
well cared for here."

"You never sent me away before," said
Clarice, looking wistfully, half-suspiciously,
in his face. *' When Jack was ill, I used to
read to him and help to amuse him."

*' Jack was Jack, my dear," replied the
old man, smiling, " but this is  a stranger."

Seeing she was about to speak  perhaps
fearing she would persist in returning home,
and it was so hard, so unusual to refuse her
anything, he added quickly, *' I will see you
again presently, but I must hurry away now ;
they are bringing him up, and if they arrive
before me Hans may bar the gate  naturally
they would not admit a wounded man into
the house without my authority."

"But we only came out for a drive!"
said the bewildered Clarice; '' and I cannot
stay without my clothes and things. I've
got nothing to wear, and I must have "

True, true, my dear ; I had forgotten.
Well, I'll send Katrina down ; she'll bring all
you want and settle you comfortably. But I
really must go now  not a word, not another
word ; I'U be back as soon as I have
arranged matters at home." He turned to
shake hands with Miss Parkes, adding, * I
am sure you will excuse this sudden attack

VOL. II. 4

on your hospitality  it is with your brother's
sanction; and on these occasions, etc., etc."

Miss Parkes expressed great pleasure at
receiving Clarice as her guest, and Mr.
Fleming having kissed her (Clarice, not
Miss Parkes) hurried away to the carriage,
and in another moment the horses were on
their homeward road as fast as they could
gallop.

' I'm not surprised that you don't care to
stay with us old folk, my dear," said Miss
Parkes, reproachfully. * I dare say it will
be rather dull for you; but the time has
been "

Oh, it isn't that! " exclaimed Clarice,
interrupting, with eyes fast filling with
tears.  Indeed I shall be as happy here as
anywhere, and it is very kind of you to have
me; but," she added with some emotion, * I
don't like to feel that  they don't want meat
home."

 "Well, candidly, my dear, I agree with
your papa ; it is best that a delicate young
creature like you should be out of the way
of mortal miseries. I've seen a little of
these things myself  the house full of groans
and moans, legs or arms being cut off, and
all sorts of horrors going on everywhere,
enough to break nerves of steel : and you,
my dear, who turn faint only at the sight of
a cut finger ! Depend upon it, you are best
here  my brother thinks so, and he is always
Right."

Clarice was forced to rest content, though
l}y no means pleased or satisfied with the
arrangement. Meanwhile, on reaching home,
Mr. Fleming called the household together ;
they were all old servants, who regarded
themselves somewhat in the old fashion as
part of the family, who served for love as well
as for wages. Having explained that there
lead been a serious accident to the train, he

went on to inform them that in that very
train ' Monsieur Lemaire was a passenger
to Penally. I am afraid he is somewhat
seriously hurt, and I have desired him to
be brought here, where he can be properly
attended to. I do not wish Miss Clarice
to know who is our inmate, neither noir
nor ever. I need not say I rely on your
discretion and fidelity in all matters concerning
your young mistress and myself; do
your duty as faithfully to this  gentleman,,
as though 370U loved him, but answer no
questions, and give no information, concerning
us'' All listened respectfully while he
was speaking, and promised faithful obedience
to his wishes. They were too well
trained to let the surprise they felt be
visible upon their countenances but when
they retired to their own domains their
wondering broke loose, and their tongues
wagged fast and furiously; only Katrina,.

Clarice's faithful old nurse, remaineth behind,
and looked inquiringly in Mr. Fleming's
face, saying 

*' What is going to happen, sir ? Why
has he come ? Does he bring the lalo in
his hand?" Her voice quivered with
emotion as she made these terse inquiries.
 *' I don't know why he has come,
Katrina," answered Mr. Fleming, too
deeply agitated to give any outward expression
to his feelings ; " but it is for no good
purpose, we may be sure ! But God knows
best. At present he is not able to speak
for himself."

** My liehcJieii! my poor innocent lichen
r' exclaimed her old nurse in the
tenderest accents ; ' but whatever happens,
you will not let him take her away ? ' '

*'I1" exclaimed Mr. Fleming in bitter
stones; and a look of stern determination
kindled in his eyes. *' No. A promise to

the dead is sacred ; and at any risk, at any
cost, law or no law, I shall keep my word.
Now go; they will he here directly. I
think yon had better put him in the large
room next to Mr. Jack's dressing-room.
One of us should he always on the spot, or
at least within hearing."

"While the household was busily preparing
for the reception of the unwelcome guest,
Mr. Fleming paced up and down the terrace,
harassed by many thoughts, watching and
waiting for the advent of his enemy.
Presently the little cavalcade came in sight.
A litter had been improvised at the station,
as easy as such a thing could be, and he was
carried all the way by men who had kindly
volunteered the service, they being relieved
in turn by other willing hands. A small
knot of villagers gathered by the way and
trailed after them from the station, whispering
and wondering among themselves * who

was this stranger ? and why was he being
taken to the Manor House ? "

Let a catastrophe occur in even the most
secluded part of the country, and it is
astonishing how quickly a crows of human
beings gather round it. One wonders where
they come from, for it often happens that
not a human habitation is in sight  they
seem to spring from anywhere, or nowhere ;
all crowd round, eager to have their share of
the gruesome feast fate has provided for
them. In the present instance there was
nothing to see, nothing to be expected ;
an occasional groan from the injured man,
and the sight of a white blood-stained face,
as now and again, in restless unconscious
pain, he tossed the covering off him  this was
all the satisfaction they received after tramping
the long distance under a burning sun.
They only knew that some living, suffering
fellow creature was lying beneath that

coarse covering, and that was enough to
rouse that morbid curiosity which is common
to all classes of society. The litter
was carried into the Manor House and the
doors closed behind it ; the crowd dissolved
and went each their several ways, full of
vague wondering.

Katrina installed herself as chief nurse in
the sick-room. It was many years since
they had met, and even when the wounded
man regained consciousness she did not
believe he would recognize her now, especially
in the obscurity of the sick-room.
They were hardly settled when Dr. Parkes
arrived, and completed the brief examination
which he had made upon the spot at the
moment of the accident. Upon this more
thorough examination, he decided that the
injuries were not so serious as he had at
first apprehended. Considering the nature
;of the accident, and the manner of his

entanglement among the \Tecked carriages,
his escape was marvellous. Of course he
was suffering from contused wounds, nervous
prostration, and injuries to the head, which
might render him unconscious for sometime
 perhaps only for a few hours, perhaps
for a few days ; he could not tell, but he
hoped there would be no grave results.

Katrina, in her attentions to him, strictly
obeyed the Doctor's instructions, and
watched over him, indeed, with care and
devotion as though she loved him. Throughout
the household, every one stood, metaphorically
speaking, on the tii-toe of wonderment.
 Would he live ? would he die ?
In either case what would happen ? " They
went about the house, and carried on their
daily business with noiseless footsteps, as
though a dead man lay in the house; and in
the evening when they gathered together in
the servants'-hall, instead of settling down

to amuse themselves in their usual fashion,
they indulged in a game of speculation, and
invented a new sum in arithmetic, where
the balance was not carried forward in
favour of their enforced guest.

MES. Spencer DOES HEE DUTY.

rriHE first moment that Mr. Fleming and
J- Jack could have a quiet word together,
they plunged at once into the subject of
M. L em aire.

'* I am bewildered, and in the dark on all
sides, '* exclaimed Mr. Fleming; ' 1 know
nothing but what your brief telegram told
me, and the subsequent event which has
thrown him upon my hands."

' And, indeed, my dear Uncle, there is
little more to tell," replied Jack. *'By
merest, luckiest chance I met him in the
Strand. I knew him at a glance "

"And did he recognize yon?" inquired
Mr. Fleming, eagerly.

How could he ? " answered Jack; *' he
hasn't seen me for ten years, and from
eighteen to twenty-eight a man changes
considerably  besides I have grown a beard
since then. No, he could not possibly know
me. I followed him to his hotel  in a bystreet
leading out of the Strand ; saw him
housed, heard him order his dinner, and
resolved to keep an eye upon him, for I
suspected he was hatching some devil's
mischief. Then I rushed off in search of a
detective ; I knew where to look for my
man, and I found him  a capital fellow he
is too. I told him briefly and exactly what
I wanted; he warmed to his work beautifully.
How he managed to get so quickly
on terms with Lemaire, I don't know ; but
they spent that very evening together  dined
and wined one another, and got quite sociable

and confidential ; and my friend Flagstaff
found out all I wanted to know. Lemaire
told a good story. * He had come,' lie said,
all the way fi'om South Arica to regain
possession of his daughter, his only child,
who had been surreptitiously withdrawn from
his custody, and carried away and concealed
in a remote corner of the country hy mercenary
relations. He is anxious about her
welfare, he even fears for her life  as in the
event of her death, the objectionable relatives
would succeed to the immense property
which she would inherit if she lived to become
of age.' "

'the villain!" muttered Mr. Fleming
from between his clenched teeth.

'' Of course Wagstaff duly sympathized,"
continued Jack, 'rand wormed a few more
interesting lies out of him, finishing uj
with the one important fact that, after
wandering the world over, he had only just

succeeded in discovering her whereabouts,
and contemplated an immediate visit to
Cornwall, intending to start this morning.
Having ascertained the time of his departure,
I was on the platform when he arrived.
I took a ticket by the same train, got into
the hindmost carriage, and  here we are.
By a mere stroke of good luck, I have
escaped from this accident scot-free ; and
he  Well, what is to be the next move?"

*' Things are at rest now," replied Mr.
Fleming; ' there can be no move on either
side till he recovers or  dies."

'Oh, he'll recover fast enough!" exclaimed
Jack.  Men whose lives are of no
use to anybody but their owners, never die.
But how about Clarice  she is the chief
object of our anxiety ; does she know ? "

'she knows nothing," was the answer;
'' and if it be possible to keep the matter from
her, I don't intend her to know anything."

How can you manage that ?  how prevent
their meeting, hvmg here under the
same roof? "

Ay, but they don't happen to be under
the same roof! " replied Mr. Fleming, with
a satisfied smile at his clever idea of keeping
her away. " I have left her under Miss
Parkes's care, and hope to keep her there
till things are settled  under the excuse of
her delicacy and nervousness. Meanwhile,
I am resolved that, law or no law, under
910 possible circumstances will I ever part
with Clarice, to give her into that man's
keeping. I think it would be expedient to
take Dr. Parkes into our confidence ; we
must rely upon his prudence and discretion.
Of course he must suspect something hom
our unusual course of action  and half-confidences
are as dangerous as no confidence
at all. If we try to keep him in the dark
he may get the wrong light thrown upon

the subject. He is already deeply interested
in Clarice, and when he is cognisant of the
truth, will give us, I am sure, his cordial
sympathy and co-operation."

Jack quite agreed as to the wisdom of the
proposed course. Accordingly, on his visit
the next morning Dr. Parkes was closeted
with Mr. Fleming in the privacy of his
study, where they were secure from interruption.
Judging from the cordiality with
which they shook hands and parted, after
an hour's interview, there was no doubt but
that the one had secured the sympathy and,
so far as it was required, the co-operation of
the other.

It is needless to say that Clarice remained
an inmate of Dr. Parkes's residence for the
next ten days ; her favourite books, her
music, and a few trifling household gods
had been transferred thither, in order that
she might be as far as possible surrounded

by the atmosphere of home. Occasionally
she was exercised in mind as to her enforced
and prolonged absence fi'om home, and was
inclined to rebel against it ; but Mr. Fleming
came to see her every morning, and gave her
some good reason for prolonging her stay
fi'om day to day. Once, to her amazement,
in his uncle's stead came Jack ! Why had
he returned so unexpectedly to Cornwall ?
He easily accounted for his visit. ''He
had," he said, " a little business in hand, in
which his uncle was concerned ; and he
thought it best to run down himself and
talk the matter over, rather than let the
lawyers carry on an expensive correspondence,
which might end in a muddle.
More business may be done in an hour's
interview than by a written ream of foolscap,
and he had no idea of carrying on the
game of question, answer, and observation
for the lawyers' benefit; and since there

VOL. II. 5

was trouble in the house  well, he thought
he would stay till it was over." So far, all
that he said was true, though it was not
politic to tell her all the truth. There
were always some legal points at issue on
which it was necessary that Mr. Fleming
should be consulted ; certainly they might
be postponed for a season, but in order not
to outrage his conscience he took the
present opportunity of discussing them
with his uncle, so salving his conscience
and saving the lawyers' fees.

Perhaps the fact of his presence at the
Manor House did more towards reconciling
Clarice to remain away than all Mr.
Fleming's representations. Miriam Spencer
and Clarice spent very much of their time
together during these days ; some subtle
chord of sympathy seemed to have grown
between them. They passed long mornings
reading, chatting, or working,, and sometimes

Jack took the girls for a drive, or
escorted them on a walking expedition 
dividing his attentions so equally that it
was difficult to tell to which he was really
most devoted ; if anything, he was a shade
more tender to Miriam, and on every look,
tone, or gesture of his, she put her own construction.


Her heart was gladdened thereby, and
filled with a hundred hopes and longings,
more sweet from the very uncertainty of
the fulfilment thereof. The life she had
hitherto lived, unloving and unloved,
seemed a vague, empty space  now it had
a far stretching background of a thousand
sweet unsubstantial dreams. He who had
flooded the greyness of her life with love's
first sunshine had come back ; and though
his lips told no 'flattering tale," surely his
eyes were eloquent enough to do without
the use of speech ! His voice  how sweet

UNIVERSITY OE
ItUNOlS 

and tender it seemed when he spoke to her!
Surely he would speak one day !

So, possessed by the pure passion  which,
let the world say what it will, is the one
great good of life  the girl dreamed on.
The dull, expressionless eyes softened and
brightened with a new light ; the harsh
angles of the nature she had inherited from
her parents were smoothed and rounded,
and her character altogether underwent a
subtle change. She grew more sympathetic
and gentle ; instead of the caustic sneer
she dropped a kindly word, and while under
the old influence she was hard and cold,
under the new she tried to palliate the sin,
and even cast about to find some excuse for
the sinner. The ice of stultified Christianity
melted from her frost-bound youth, and it
grew rich in the bloom of faith, hope, and
charity  the flowers of the true Christian's
creed.

The Rectory folk felt the change, and
were mightily puzzled thereat  the moral
atmosphere of their home was somehow
changed. They only lived for the bitter
pleasure of harrying out, gloating over, and
punishing the sins of other people ; now
their own child had ungratefully passed
over to the other side, and not only brought
forward '' extenuating circumstances "
against the verdict of " guilty," but,
instead of pelting the sinner with pitiless
frowns and phrases, positively talked of
' toleration " and " kindness " being part of
a Christian's duty ! Oh, there was evidently
something wrong  softening of the brain,
or some mental twist that could be cured
like a bodily fracture : they almost doubted
whether Dr. Parkes ought not to be called
in and consulted upon the matter. Meanwhile,
as her appetite was normal, her
sleeping and walking powers good, they

waited some further development before
they incurred a doctor's bill.

Meanwhile Miriam was not allowed to
take sole possession of Clarice. Mrs.
Spencer came to the fore  she feared " lest
the dear girl should be dull away from
home ; '* besides she saw an opportunity of
doing some good. She had not much opinion
of the Christianity of the Manor House,
though they certainly did come to church
once every Sunday: yet Clarice did not pay
proper attention; she looked preoccupied
and dreamy except when she was singing 
she seemed to enjoy that, and to put more
earthly enjoyment than was proper into the
religious exercise. As for Mr. Fleming, he
was constantly known to go fast asleep
during the sermon ; and though the Eector
thumped the cushions, and tried by fierce
denunciations and threats of eternal punishment
to awaken the slumbering sinner, he

still slept on, and when the service was
over walked serenely out of church, smiling
and content like a man who feels he has
done his duty. Of course all that was very
wrong, but she could not take him by the
ears and scold him, as she did her poorer
parishioners if they dared even to blink.

However, here was an opportunity of
putting Clarice through the parish business,
and letting her see the amount of
work and iniquity the Church had to contend
against. Clothed in the armour of
righteousness, she went forth to fight the
Philistines, searching for some skeleton
which she was sure was hidden in some
corner of every house in the village. She
was eager to enlighten Clarice's mind by
the sight of the conflict. But the sight of
sin, poverty, and sorrow, was not new to
Clarice ; she and Mr. Fleming had familiarized
themselves with the poor of Penally,

and many humble homes were brighter and
happier for their unostentatious visits. They
gave freely and judiciously where there was
need ; they helped the poor to help themselves,
and neither oppressed with charity
nor wearied with expostulations. They had
a kind encouraging word even for the hardened
sinner, so feeding the starved soul as
well as the hungry body. Where is the use
of preaching virtue where people are wanting
bread ?

They had already established pleasant
relations with the poor of the parish ; a
chord of sympathy ran like a current of
electricity from the Manor House to the
poorest house in Penally, connecting the
rich and poor by the bond of common
humanity. The * Manor House gentry,"
and the ' Eectory folk," were as opposite
in the eyes of the villagers as are the
heavens and earth. The first was always

welcome, the latter avoided. They hated
to see Mrs. Spencer's beady eyes and sharp
nose poking in at their cottage doors ; she
was too good at giving gratuitous advice,
too eager in her fight against their domestic
arrangements ; no fancied unsanitary state
of things was allowed to flourish within her
ken ; she hunted down imaginary fever dens,
and superintended the cleansing and fumigating
process herself, caught little ragged
run agates and packed them off to school.
When she came near there was a general
scrimmage among the urchins, and a stampede
of the skulking idlers who dared to
lounge in their doorways.

Poor Mrs. Spencer ! she meant well, but
she took hold of things at the wrong end ;
her faults were venal, her virtues relentless.
People of her peculiar character are perhaps
more to be pitied than blamed ; they have
no real, confidential friends, no sympathies ;

they are as much shut out of the inner life
of their ' dearest friends " as the dead lying
in their graves are shut out of the sunlight !
For who could expose a bruised heart or
wounded spirit to cold cynicism or bitter
probe of a woman's caustic tongue ? We
all have some dear friend to whom we can
confide our servants' delinquencies, our millinery
troubles, or the open scandals of the
kettledrum ; but from our hearts and from
our inner selves they are rigorously excluded.
One bright morning Mrs. Spencer took
Clarice and Miriam on her inquisitorial
campaign. She swept like an angry whirlwind
into one house, and out of another,
castigating everybody with her tongue, and
when she could not scold, maintained a grim
dissatisfied silence. She was surprised to
see Clarice welcomed with smiles, and by
no means so great a stranger as she had
supposed ; little children ran out and clung

shyly to her skirts, unrebukecl for duty
hands and unkempt heads ; grey-haired,
hard-working folks welcomed her as a bit
of sunshine into thei squalid homes; and
the sullen faces of the few lazy loungers,
who were the pests of the village, cleared
up, and, instead of skulking and hiding like
lost, crushed creatures, they came out hom
their wretched hovels, to intercept a smile
or catch a word hom her lips. Somehow,
the greater the \Tong-doer, the more misguided
the human soul, the more pitiful she
felt towards them ; and if only her silent
shadow fell across their path, it gave them
at least a desire, if not an impetus, to
scramble out of the slough of despond,
and once more tread in the straight and
better way. She knew them all by name,
and could ask after this old woman's rheumatism,
or that old man's gout  all of which
was very distasteful to Mrs. Spencer, as

evidence of a vulgar mind ; but of course
she could say nothing about it, and only
kept a discreet, condemnatory silence.

 Dear Mrs. Spencer, please stop one
minute!" exclaimed Clarice, as they came
to a narrow muddy lane, with some tumbledown
cottages scattered on either side; '*I
must drop in to look after one of my pensioners
 I've not been near her for a week."

Mrs. Spencer strode after her, saying 

My dear, you should really take advice
before you rush into these sort of places 
only the most disreputable people live hereabouts."


They are just the kind of people that
require most looking after," rejoined Clarice ;
*' ' they that are whole need not a physician,'
you know,  but those that are sick.' "

' Don't quote Scripture in that loose
fashion, my dear," exclaimed Mrs. Spencer;
it is irreverent, if not blasphemous."

Without noticing the rebuke, Clarice
glanced forward.

*' Why, there is my old friend Kitty Penrith,
sitting in the doorway enjoying the
sunshine!" she exclaimed; "I'm glad to
see her able to get about."

Mrs. Spencer caught her arm, and forced
her to turn round and stand still.

'* My poor, motherless child," she said,
compassionately, 'Mt is my duty to speak
to you. I dare not be silent, or you will be
lost in this sea of infamy ! "

"What do you mean?" inquired the
astonished Clarice.

That old woman, Kitty Penrith," she
answered, " is the greatest impostor and
worst woman in the neighbourhood."

Impossible ! " exclaimed Clarice ; " she
is helpless, she suffers so much she is almost
bedridden ! There must be some mistake
surely she can do no harm ! "

'* She does all the harm she can. A worm
can't crawl as fast as a horse can gallop, and
a cat can't do as much harm as a wild beast ;
but if a crippled sinner sins all she can, she's
as bad as the biggest sinner alive ! "

 Mrs. Spencer, you frighten me with this
mysterious way of talking," said Clarice.
** Whatever the poor creature has done, I
am sure she is sorry for it now."

*not at all," she answered; "besides,
we never can repent as fast as we can sin.
She glories in the most barefaced encouragement
of vice, and when I talked to her,
and tried to bring her to a sense of decency,
she said I was no Christian, and ordered me
mes the Eector's wife !  out of her hovel,
and threatened me with her crutch ! There ! "
she added, triumphantly ; ' now you see the
sort of thing you're going in for ! "

'but you don't tell me what dreadful
thing she has done! " exclaimed Clarice.

' Humph ! it is not pleasant to talk about
it ; but if you won't take my word, if you

will discuss this very unsavory subject "

With a slight shrug of her shoulders, she
added, " Since you know Kitty Penrith so
well, I suppose you know her daughter
Jane?"

Oh yes, of course I do  poor Jane ! A
pale, sad-looking gil, with a pretty, cuiiy-
headed little boy."

 Ay! there's the trouble," rejoined Mrs.
Spencer, quickly. ' Jane was a fine-looking
ros' girl when she went to service at Penzance,
and doing well, so everybody thought.
When one bitter winter day she came back
unexpectedly, sick and bedraggled, bad in
health and bad in morals, and Kitty Penrith,
in the most barefaced way, had the child
born in the house ! "

' But surely there was no harm in that ? "
observed Clarice.

You're too innocent  you don't understand,"
explained Mrs. Spencer. '' That
child had no business in the world at all ;
it ought never to have been born, my dear,
and that's the fact ; and instead of being
ashamed of it, they are as fond and proud of
the brat, and dress it and curl its hair, as
though it was somebody's child, and had a
right to be here and the old woman is the
worst of the two ! ' '

** But surely you can't blame the mother
for having pity on her unfortunate child? "

' People have no business to be unfortunate,"
answered Mrs. Spencer, with a
snap as though she had caught the sinner
between her teeth and crushed it.

' How can we expect God to have compassion
upon us, if we have so little mercy
on one another ? " said jClarice, half speaking
to herself.

*' We don't expect it, my dear," replied

Mrs. Spencer, brusquely ; 'ewe are told
plainly enough that the portion of the
wicked is hell-fire, where there ' shall be
weeping and gnashing of teeth.' But about
these people, my dear : after what I have
told you, I hope there will be an end to your
pernicious charity."

'' Quite the contrary ! " exclaimed Clarice,
decidedly ; ''I am more interested now than
I was before. I shall speak to my father
about them, and I am sure he will find
some way of improving and changing their
condition."

'' They were nearly changing that themselves
a few months ago," rejoined Mrs.
Spencer, " for the villain who is responsible
for that child's unlicensed existence was
actually coming home fi'om the Cape to
marry her ! "

sand why didn't he?" asked Clare,
eagerly.

VOL. II. 6

'because he couldn't  he was drowned
on his way home ; and the hussy had the
impudence to tie on some black rags  as
though she had a right to go into mourning
and come to church, and was actually
heard sobbing over her prayers ! I think
there ought to be a law against such irreverent
exhibitions in a place of worship."

*' Come unto me all ye that are weary and
heavy laden, and I will give you rest," were
the words that floated through Clarice's
mind ; but she said nothing. She felt it was
hardly seemly to enter a protest against the
Eector's wife  a woman, too, so much older
than herself. But Miriam exclaimed, in a
pained voice 

But, mother, she was so unhappy. I
was always sorry for that poor girl ; perhaps
she loved him ! "

'' That is a most indecent expression, and
I should never have expected a child of mine

to utter it ! " said Mrs. Spencer, severely.
'As a rule, people who are so found of
excusing immoralities are far on the way
towards committing them ; but you are
very much changed for the worse, lately 
you seem to be under some bad influence ! "
Bouncer, who, as usual, was in attendance
on his young mistress, had rushed forward
as though he was quite familiar with the
way, and disappeared into Kitty's cottage,
scaring her cat and a couple of ragged fowls
by the way. He was heard barking joyously,
and in another moment emerged from it,
with a bright-eyed, yellow-haired boy changing
to his neck, and making futile attempts
to mount upon his back; when a young
woman rushed out, glared carefully down
the road, and dragged him back into the
house, administering a vigorous shaking
by the way. Mrs. Spencer had turned, and
was walking slowly back to the high-road.

 One minute, please, Mrs. Spencer," exclaimed
Clarice, as she bounded forward,
disappeared for the space of a few seconds
into the cottage, and then, half-breathlessly,
hurried to rejoin her companions on the
highway.

' You are a dear, good girl ! " exclaimed
Mrs. Spencer, with an air of patronizing
satisfaction, arguing well from Clarice's
quick return. "It is quite pleasant to
give advice when it has such a good
effect. I should like to speak a few warning
words to your dear father ; and I
would, too, if I thought he would take
it in good part  no offence taken or meant
on either side."

My father is never offended at anything
that is kindly meant."

** Of course, I am naturally anxious for
the good of our parishioners  indeed I may
say I devote my life to their service ; and it

is disheartening to fiucl people who ought to
know better puling in an opposite direction,
even with the best intentions."

Yes ? " exclaimed Clarice, interrogatively,
waiting for further information.

Poor, dear Mr. Fleming," continued
Mrs. Spencer, ' I am sure he is a
thoroughly good man, and means well. 
You must excuse me, my dear, but since
we are speaking on this subject, it is best
to speak plainly.  He wishes to do good, but
he is altogether wrong-headed, like yourself;
and instead of helping to abolish crime,
he becomes an aider and abettor of it."

I think you are mistaken," exclaimed
Clarice, with heightened colour; "you do
not understand either him or his ways."

** My dear child, it is all as plain as a
pikestaff," answered Mrs. Spencer. " When
a man of position stoops to the companionship
of loose-livers and drunkards, he becomes

to a great extent responsible for their
vices."

"Who does this?" inquired Clarice,
indignantly. '' Surely you dare not bring
such an accusation against my father ! "

" Here is a simple case in point," continued
Mrs. Spencer. " Ben  you know
Ben, up at the station ?  the miserable
heathen doesn't even own to a surname 
well, he lost his place through neglecting
his duties, oversleeping himself in the sunshine,
or something or another ; and since
then he has been loafing about, drinking
and drinking, whenever he could get a
chance. Well, the other day he was lying
dead-drunk on the road, and Mr. Fleming,
your father, was actually seen to help him
up, take him by the arm, all covered with
mud and dust as he was, and lead him
towards his miserable home  not rating
him as he deserved, but coaxing him along

in quite a friendly way ! I shouldn't wonder
if he put him to hed, and sent hin some
soup afterwards ! Ugh ! it's dreadful ; such
a bad example, too ! "

A soft smile played round Clarice's lips
as she said 

' Just like him, the dear old dad ! Steely,
Mrs. Spencer, you must acknowledge that
it is better to lead a man away from drink
with a kind hand, than drive him towards it
with hard words ? "

Mrs. Spencer smiled her usual supercilious
self-satisfied smile, as though she
looked from a supreme height on all the
world below as she answered 

*' My poor child, you take such an extraordinary
crooked view of everything, I am
afraid you will have to undergo a surgical
operation before you can see things rightly.
Why do you look at me so strangely ? "
she added, sharply.

'I was only thinking," said Clarice,
thoughtfully, ' if ever you have to suffer  if
any great tragic trouble overtakes you  how
sorry I shall be ! "

'IN THE HOUSE OF MINE ENEMY ! "

IT was about the third day after the
accident. M. Lemaire had not regained
a moment's consciousness, but lay as a rule
quiet enough, only occasionally tossing on
his pillow and moaning. For some hours,
however, he had been  at least so Katrina
thought  in a profound sleep ; and when Dr.
Parkes paid his usual visit, he smiled, and
said ' his patient was on the mend ; " the
breathing was less laboured and more
natural ; the skin, from being harsh and dry,
was soft and moist, evidently regaining its
natural colour.

' He is on the road to recovery," said the
Doctor; *'he only needs quiet and care  let
him have perfect rest. When he first recovers
consciousness, you must be especially
careful that he does not get excited on any
subject whatever."

Katrina, of course, promised obedience and
watchfulness. The Doctor having departed,
she busied herself about the room, settling
everything for the invalid's comfort, arranging
the bed-curtains so as to exclude
as much as possible the light from him.
She opened the window to let in the warm,
soft air ; sniffed and rubbed her nose, as it
was her habit to do in any perplexity ; then
put on her spectacles, and busied herself
with some household sewing. Her wrinkled
face was full of expression, and her small
black eyes were as bright and eager as they
were twenty years ago. Occasionally, as
she glanced at the sick man with a lowering

brow, evidently with no goodwill towards
him, she muttered to herself in an irritable
sort of way. The faithful soul had plenty
to think about. She knew all the "ins
and outs " of the family mysteries, and their
troubles were her own.

Presently she heard the patient stir, and
noticed a difference in his breathing ; on
looking round she saw that his eyes were
wide open, and fixed upon her face. She
went to the bedside and smoothed his
pillow, and arranged the bed-clothes as she
said 

Glad to see you taking notice, sir 
you're better."

"Better!" he echoed, rather faintly;
"what has been the matter? Have I
been ill?" His voice sounded unused and
hollow, and he looked vaguely round the
room as though he had awakened in a new
world.

' Yes, indeed you have ; but you are
improving now," she answered. 'But you
had best he quiet ; you mustn't talk much,
till the Doctor gives you leave to."

For a few moments he did lie still, with
knit brows, as though he were trying to
clear the mists from his brain and remember
something. Presently he said 

** Who are you ? I fancy I have heard
your voice ! Undraw the curtains and let
me see your face."

'' It would do you no good to see it," she
answered, '' and I am forbidden to let in the
light ; " and she drew the curtains closer.

* It's very strange," he muttered, as his
head rolled restlessly on his pillow ; 'all so
confused I can't remember anything. At
least tell me where I am, and how I came
here ; and  whose house is this ? "

'' My master's," she answered, '' and that's
quite enough for you to know at present."

' And who the devil is your master,
woman ? " he exclaimed with angry emphasis.


'' Oh well, if you're going to swear, ita
symptom!" she answered coolly; 'ewe
shall have to put you into a straight-waistcoat.
But I hear the doctor coming up the
drive  you can ask him as many questions as
you please."

In the course of a few minutes Dr.
Parkes entered the room, and regarded his
patient with the usual grave professional
eye. He did not seem surprised to find
that he had regained consciousness, and
was alive to things passing round him ;
though so far as memory was concerned he
was still groping in the dark, and was faint
and weak from the excitement already
stirring in his brain. He began to pour into
the Doctor's ear a host of voluble half-incoherent
questions ; to which he vouchsafed

no reply, but spoke to him soothingly as he
would have spoken to a fractious child.

'' See here, M. Lemaire," he said gravely,
 you have been seriously ill, though you
are recovering now, and if you wish the
improvement to continue you must keep
perfectly quiet awhile longer. I will see
you again tomorrow, and if you are as much
better as I hope you will be if you obey my
instructions, I will answer any questions you
may desire to ask. This is a critical time ; "
he added, ' you must keep your mind quiet
and free from excitement, or you will undo
all the good that has been done. There,
don't talk any more. I can rely on your
nurse's discretion. Sleep, sleep, all you can,
and keep yourself from thinking. Ask no
questions ; I have forbidden your being
answered."

M. Lemaire had great recuperative powers,
and by the next day had made such rapid

strides towards recovery, that when Dr.
Parkes arrived he found him sitting up
in bed, rating and grumbling at Katrina,
who obeyed the Doctor's instructions to the
letter and gave him no information whatever,
but only irritated him the more by
insisting that he should keep quiet and hold
his tongue.

I am glad you have come, Doctor," he
said, stretching out a long bony hand like
a bird's claw; ' I am stronger now. My
thoughts are coming back : I am beginning
to remember. With a little help, I shall soon
be all right. Come, sit down," he added
feverishly, as he passed his hand over his
forehead, " and tell me everything that has
happened ; if you only give me a clue, I
think my memory will wake up and follow
it."

But the Doctor was not to be hurried in
that way, nor led to plunge at once into the

troubled waters ; he went deliberately to
work  he felt the patient's pulse, and
made such other inquiries as were professional
and necessary. But M. Lemaire
fretted and fumed under the examination,
and snatched his hand from the Doctor's exclaiming


** There, there ! I don't want any more
pulse-feeling nonsense ; all this silence and
mystery irritates and worries me, and keeps
my pulse beating like a steam-hammer. I
want to be satisfied, to have my mind set
afc rest  to know where I am, and how I
came here. I see nobody but that  that

woman who " (he indicated Katrina,

who occupied her usual seat by the window,
and with spectacled nose sat knitting).

* Has been your careful and most faithful
nurse," interrupted the Doctor.

'* Yes, yes! I know she had been all that,"
he rejoined, testily, '' but she makes my

flesh creep when she touches me. She never
talks, hut moves about noiseless as a shadowlike
some weu*d, eerie thing ; and when she
smooths my pillow, and her hands pass over
me, I feel as though she were streaking me
for my grave. And it is not fancy. Doctor,
but often in the night, while I was unconscious
 I felt with my brain rather than
saw with my eyes  she brought people in,
and they stood at my bedside, looked at me,
sometimes touched me, and whispered together,
as though they were plotting something
horrible together; then they gilded
out of the room like ghosts. I could not
move, I could not see or speak, but I felt
and knew ! What does it all mean ? "

'It means, my dear sir, that your brain
is weak, and in a state of morbid agitation
and unnatural excitement," answered the
Doctor.

"It will be in a state of agitation and

VOL. TI. 7

unrest till I am satisfied. You said you
would tell me everything. See how calm
I am now ! I wait, I listen  tell me all that
has happened, so far as you know''

Dr. Parkes saw that it would be injurious
to keep M. Lemaire any longer in ignorance
as to his whereabouts ; the refusal to
give him the information he required would
do him more harm in his present state of
irritation than any knowledge of absolute
facts could possibly do ; so he added, cautiously


' The fact is, M. Lemaire, you have been
in a terrible accident, which, but for God's
mercy, might have been a fatal one."

' An accident! Yes ! " with a look of eager
interrogation, knitting his brows as though
he was trying to recall some wandering
thoughts.

' A railway accident," continued the
Doctor, impressively; *' the engine ran off

the line, the carnages toppled one over the
other, and sou were extricated from the
wreck, hurt, unconscious, but mercifully
ave. This railway ticket was found in your
possession."

M. Lemaire sprang up in the bed,
stretched out his hand and seized it eagerly.
The Doctor kept a keen, scrutinizing look
upon his face.

** Penally ! " he exclaimed, crushing the
ticket in his hand as he fell back in the bed,
and with closed eyes remained for a moment
silent, muttering to himself. Then he
partly raised himself up, adding aloud : ''A
light breaks upon me ! I remember now !
I did take the train for Penally. I remember
nothing more distinctly  only a crash, a
flash as though a hundred fires were lighted
in my brain, and nothing more. Where
did the train break down ? Where am I
now?"

He flung himself forward almost upon the
Doctor's shoulder, and gripped him with
his long bony fingers, and gazed eagerly on
his face as though he would seize the
answer before the tongue had power to
utter it.

' The train was wrecked within a few
hundred yards of Penally station," replied
the Doctor, ' and you were brought here,
where you have been well cared for and
nursed so far on the way to recovery'

*' And where is here ? " inquired M.
Lemaire, testily. '* Whose house is this ?
and who is the master who does not deign
to look in upon his guest ? "

"When you are willing to receive him
I am sure he will not be slow in paying you
a visit," returned Dr. Parkes.

But who is this ' he ? 'this name ? "

"Is Fleming."

My God ! in Philip Fleming's house !

helpless, in his power! and yet I live!" He
sank back upon his pillow, as though that
name had struck him senseless.

Dr. Parkes sat silent by the bedside, leaving
things to take their natural course in
his patient's mind; he, at least, had no
power to direct or guide them  neither,
indeed, did he know how it would be wise
that they should be directed or guided 
through the bewildering labyrinth through
which they must be wandering. It is
always difficult to legislate for other people ;
even when we know the difficulties of the
situation, we can neither see nor comprehend
the complex working of the mental
machinery, the battle of the myriad thoughts
and feelings which fight a hard fight in
silence and darkness, making no stir, no
ripple on the outer current of life. The
actions born of the inward struggle are
alone visible to the world's eyes, which can

only judge of the fact, and knows nothing
of the battle which has been lost or won.
We can only judge of the open actions of
our fellow men and women ; the motive and
chief mainspring of such actions is and must
always be hidden from our sight.

Dr. Parkes waited for his patient to make
the first sign ; he would not by a single word
disturb the current of his thoughts. After
a long silence, during whichhis heavy breathing
was alone heard, he turned his face 
now cadaverous in its pallor, and bearing the
marks of an inward struggle  and fixed his
eyes upon the Doctor's face as he said in a
low voice, almost a whisper, for he seemed
quite exhausted 

doctor, was it chance that brought me
here, or fate? "

A most fortunate chance for you'*
began the Doctor, *that Mr. Fleming happened
to be on the spot and recognized you.

Yon would not have fared so well with
strangers."

' Oh, if they had only put me on a
shutter, a hurdle, and taken me anywhere 
anywhere but here ! "

And yet, pardon me, M. Lemaire, but I
thought that I understood that you came
here purposely to see Mr. Fleming? "

*but not to break bread under his roof;
not to be helpless on his hands. Doctor,
you must get me away ! I am strong  you
don't know how strong ; but I cannot, I will
not, stay another hour under this roof."

' Come, come, AT. Lemaire," said the
Doctor, soothingly, ''if you agitate yourself
in this way I will not answer for the consequences.
You have nothing to fear fi'om
Mr. Fleming ; he will not intrude upon you
till you deane to receive him. Be reasonable
and keep calm. Whatever business you
may have to transact with Mr. Fleming

can be discussed in a simple, straightforward
fashion, as soon as you are strong enough
to enter into such relations ; at present you
are really too weak to undergo any mental
excitement."

* Weak in body  yes  but mentally I am
strong and calm now. I know precisely
what I want to say to Mr. Fleming, and amas
well able to speak to him now as I was
before this happened to me. Ah, Doctor !
flesh and blood can't bear too much, and
you do not know how many wrongs I have
that must be righted ! He has stolen "

'Hush!" exclaimed the Doctor, laying
his hand upon his patient's lips ; *' do not
discuss your family affairs with me. I am
your physician only, not your confidant."

Then, as a physician, you must know
that the body cannot recover while the
mind is so fiercely agitated as mine is. A
quiet brain, and the power to face mine

enemy fairly, is all that I require now, and
that I shall never get here, under this roof.
I must go ! I 77iust 1 "

Before any one could prevent him he
sprang from his bed, and began scrambling
for his clothes. But "Man proposes, and God
disposes." The exertion was too much for
him ; he reeled and would have fallen, but
Dr. Parke s caught him in his arms and laid
him gently in his bed.

With slow returning consciousness, the
forcible fact impressed itself on M. Lemaire's
mind that the Doctor was right, and he
was not fit for any mental or physical exertion
yet ; he must yield to the inevitable and
bide his time. The spirit was willing, but
the flesh was weak. From this interview
with Dr. Parkes, when the fact of his whereabouts
was first made known to him, he
alluded no more to the subject ; he neither
fretted nor fumed, nor rebelled in the

slightest degree against the Doctor's will,
but obeyed his instructions with perfect
docility. So far the Doctor was himself surprised
at the sudden change ; he could not
understand it. Had the fire of his excitement
died out ? or was it only smouldering
to blaze out presently fiercer than before ?
As a physician, he was satisfied that his
patient was making such rapid strides, he
would soon be altogether off his hands. As
for M. Lemaire, we cannot follow the workings
of his mind as he lay silent, still, and
watchful in his bed, or sat, with his chair
wheeled to the window, looking out upon
the beautiful land and sea-scape whereon
Clarice loved to look and dream and wonder.
During the earlier part of his illness, and
while he was still a stranger to her identity,
he had evinced a strange dislike, a shrinking
away from Katrina, even when she administered
most to his comfort. Now he

was changed utterly  his manner to her was
all that could be desired, and he expressed
the most grateful appreciation of her care
and kindness. Only on one occasion did
he allude to any former acquaintance. It
happened in this wise. He had been out
for the first time for a turn on the terrace,
and he returned to his room apparently very
much fatigued. He lay back in his chair
quite quiet for a time ; his eyes were half
closed in a kind of cat's sleep, but he was
watching Katrina, who sat knitting opposite
to him with her owl-eyed glasses on
her nose ; and she was quite aware of the
fact, and prepared for any kind of attack he
might make upon her. Presently, in a soft,
purring voice, he said 

How strangely things repeat themselves
in this world, Katrina ! How many years
it is  and yet it seems no time ago  since
I saw you sitting exactly as you are sitting

now, watching over another invalid as you
are now watching over vie''

 All! " ejaculated Patria, shortly ; " she
died, unluckily ; you  live ! "

 Unluckily too, you think, though you
don't like to say it," he rejoined, with a low,
chuckling laugh, half smothered in his
throat. * Ah ! Katrina, you are prejudiced.
You misjudge me, like the rest of the
world."

 That can't matter to you, sir. I am
only a servant," she answered.

'' You were my poor wife's friend. Why
can't you be mine ? Why will you league
with my enemies against me ? ' '

** One can't serve God and the devil too,"
she answered.

' Sharp-tongued as ever," he remarked;
*' but I excuse your disloyalty to me in consideration
of what you were to her, for after
all that has happened I have no ill-feeling
towards you," he added.

'none to spare for poor folk like me,"
she answered, plying her needles more
vigorously than before, and closing her
heart close as a steel-trap, determined he
should wheedle nothing out of her. A few
minutes' pause ; then, stooping forward and
laying his hand with an arresting motion
upon her arm, he added, in his softest, most
insinuating tones 

It is no use beating about the bush.
You know I have been away in Africa, and
lost sight of everything and everybody for
all these years. Can't you tell me something?
I will make it worth your while.
You must see that I want to know," he
added impatiently, * about my daughter.
Is she well ? and moliere is she ? I must, I
will know something about my child ! "

'task Mr. Fleming; you will see him tomorrow,"
Katrina answered, as she rose up
and left the room.

His eyes followed her with a look of bitter
hatred that needed not the emphasis of
words. He shook his fist menacingly as
the door closed upon her, and with a
muttered curse upon his lips glared out
across the scented wilderness, and caught a
glimpse of Mr. Fleming and Jack Swayne,
who were walking slowly up and down in
the shadow of the wood, evidently deeply
interested in the subject they were discussing.


A Drawn GAME.

M.

Empire was up and dressed long
before the clock struck twelve  the
hour arranged for the interview between
him and Mr. Fleming. He was alone 
no Katrina sat knitting in the window,
where she had sat for so many days. Her
attentions being no longer needed, she had
vacated her place. He paced impatiently
up and down the room, with bent brows and
compressed lips, arranging his thoughts and
his course of action, as though life were
a chess-board, and he could play his own
game thereon.

The window was wide open ; the birds
were singing, and the fresh sea-breeze, laden
with the sweet fragrance from the flower
garden, swept freely into the room. Everything
without was still and peaceful; it
seemed as though the very calm on the
serene face of nature clashed with and
fretted his restless spirit. Now and then
he paused and looked out upon the sunt
scene ; but his eye saw nothing, cared
nothing for its beauty. The world is a very
beautiful world when there are no discords
in our own hearts, no jangling chords in our
own nature, which set us at odds with ourselves
and all the world beside.

Punctuality was a virtue cultivated at the
Manor House, and as the clock struck
twelve there was a rap at the door, and
Hans appeared with the inquiry, ' Was M.
Lemaire at liberty to receive his master
now? "

'I am ready and waiting," was the
answer, uttered with a scowling brow and
an imperious tone. In another moment
Mr. Fleming, looking perhaps a shade paler
than usual, entered the room. M. Lemaire
stood with his hand resting on the hack of
a chair. Both men inclined their heads
slightly, and then stood face to face, each
looking in the other's e3es as though to
measure his strength, and then waited for
the first move in the wordy war that was to
come. Mr. Fleming was the first to speak.
Motioning M. Lemaire to sit down, he
placed himself opposite to him, and said in
cool, though perfectly polite tones 

'' I am glad you are better, M. Lemaire.
If I have not personally inquired after you
before, it was from motives of delicacy that
I refrained from doing so."

*' Your motives of delicacy ! Ah ! I never
questioned them j but somehow I have

VOL. II, 8

always failed to appreciate them," replied
M. Lemaire, in sneering accents. ** I suppose
I ought to thank you for the attention
I have received under your roof. Well,
consider I have done so  though, if I had
been consulted, I would rather have been
left to rot on the roadside than owe my life
to you. An enforced debt is grudgingly
paid."

Mr. Fleming bowed his head graciously
as he answered 

 Unfortunately, you were not in a position
to be consulted, or you might have had
your will. We need allude no further to
the subject. The then is past ; the question
is the 71020, I presume your visit to Penally
was in search of me. Your business ? Tell
me as briefly as you can."

' Does that need any explanation ? " said
M. Lemaire.

"I think so," said Mr, Fleming, briefly,

as if determined to watch his words and
waste no more than was necessary

'A father seeking his child would need
no explanation in the world's eyes," said M.
Lemaire, with the most hypocritical calm.

'father!" echoed Mr. Fleming, with
hitter emphasis. 'how dare you misuse
the word ? In what single instance have
you ever done a father's duty ? How dare
you lay claim to the daughter you have
never seen  whom you have neglected and
deserted from her birth ? "

"It was the force of circumstances,"
began M. Lemaire.

The force of the devil, sir ! " exclaimed
Mr. Fleming, angrily, " who cuts out and
fills up the lives of such men as you ! "

*' I have not come here to listen to your
abuse, and I don't care for your criticism on
my conduct. I only want my daughter
Clarice. I have found you now, and I will

hang on to your track like a bloodhound
till I gain possession of my child. Where
is she ?'

'* Where yon will never find her!" said
Mr. Fleming, gravely.

'Not dead  not dead?" exclaimed M.
Lemaire, and such a flame of joy flashed
from his eyes. Mr. Fleming could have-stretched
out his hand and strangled him
on the spot ; but he resolved to hold his
self-possession fast, so he only answered 

' No, not dead, thank God."
'I thank God too!" exclaimed M.
Lemaire ; but an eager, crafty look replaced
the triumphant fire as it faded from his eyes.

*you lie!" replied Mr. Fleming, coolly
but emphatically. "You know her death
would be the sweet news you have waited
for  how long? "

' You would never gain a prize at mind-reading
; you fly too wide of the mark," rejoined

]\I. Lemaire. ' But I cannot be held
accountable for your evil thoughts. The
right is on my side, and I have nothing
more to do, except to relieve you of all
responsibility so far as my dear child is concerned.
So far you have charged yourself
"with her custody. . I shall now trouble you
to give her into vii?ie. I am her natural
guardian."

- '' My God, Lemaire ! what a villain you
are ! " exclaimed ]mr. Fleming. '' Is it worth
your while to wear a mask with me, who
know you so v'ell ? I can follow every
move you make. I know the aim and object
of your coming noiv.''

"I may perhaps add one item to your
occult knowledge," rejoined M. Lemaire,
watching Ins countenance as though he
knew he was going to inflict upon him an
open wound. '' I am going back to South
Africa, and naturally desire to make my

daughter's acquaintance and secure lier
companionship. I have neglected her too
long, and am now anxious to make up for
lost time."

** I am sorry to deprive you of the anticipated
pleasure ; but I am afraid you must
go to South Africa alone. It is impossible
that Clarice can accompany you," said Mr.
Fleming, calmly, but firmly.

The two men looked at each other curiously.
Each knew the other's hand and
mode of playing perfectly well ; at the same
time each believed that he held the highest
trump-card to win in the end. They advanced
cautiously, feeling their way, as it
were, inch by inch.

Why impossible ? " urged M. Female.
*' The matter lies in your hands. You have
only to bring us together, and I will answer
for the result."

Mr. Fleming compressed his lips as

though to keep back the \\'ords he longed to
utter ; hut answered nothing. Irritated by
his silence, M. Lemaire foolishly unmasked
his battery, saying excitedly 

You have no right to keep my daughter
in concealment ! It is an illegal act to hide
her from her lawful guardian. Remember,
Mr. Fleming, Clarice is nearly two years
under age."

* I have not forgotten that ; " adding, with
peculiar significant emphasis which seemed
to sting his opponent into a state of fury,
** but under your care I fear she might not
hive to be of age at all ! "

The look of terrible meaning which settled
in the old man's eyes could not have been
lost, except upon a blind man. It struck
M. Lemaire like a blow, but he never
quailed. He did not show how keenly he
felt it. He received it like a feather on a
shield of brass, and tossed it lightly from

him. He smiled with scornful bravado ashe
said : *' Your baseless insinuation goes for
nothing in point of fact or in point of law,
and if you determine to oppose my rightful
claim I shall appeal to the law."

' And I shall be willing to answer to the
law," said Mr. Fleming, impressively. ' M.
Xiemaire, I promised your dying wife that
rather than let her child fall into your hands
I would lay her in the grave beside her ;
and I think, if goaded to the bitter end, I
should have strength to keep my word."

'' My wife ! He ! he ! " chuckled M. Lemaire,
under his breath.  Which wife?
what wife ? I thought you went shares in
that business, and we divided the honours
between us ! A pretty story  quite a nine
days' wonder, indeed, if it were told in a
police-court ! It would have an ugly look
for you, the aristocratic, high-bred gentleman
! How dare yoa treat me so?" he.

added, in a rougher, louder tone. ' Why,
it is owing to vijj mercy that she whom you
called your wife was not arraigned at the
criminal bar for bigamy ! "

'You dared not do it!" replied Mr.
Fleming, not in the slightest degree disturbed.
"Was it for her sake, or for mine,
you spared her ? Was it not rather that you
feared lest your own diabolical doings would
rise to the surface and confound you ? We
sinned  if sin it was ; God knows I cannot
judge  with our eyes shut : you with your
eyes wide open. Let me recapitulate the
facts  the plain, unvarnished facts as they
would stand in the world's eyes. I married
your wife  true, I admit the fact freely ;
but why, and how did that marriage come
about ? Let us go back and pick up the
threads a few years earlier. A foolish father
left me guardian to his child, Clara Dun-combe
 does the name strike you ? "

I had almost forgotten it," rejoined M.
Lemaire, shrugging his shoulders.

' I watched the pretty, playful child
developed into a beautiful girlhood, sweet and
pure as the sun-dew; and, although I was
then in the sere and yellow leaf, I loved
her  God knows how well I " He paused
for a moment, evidently overcome by the retrospection
he forced himself to face. What
did he see ? Alas ! the pictures that floated
before his mind's eye were like galvanized
ghosts of the dead, whose faces were covered
by the coffin-lid. With a sigh, that was
almost a sob, he turned from those bitter
memories, and continued : ' The usual
game of cross purposes was played out.
She loved you. So far all was well. You
were a younger, fitter man than I. After
all, I had never spoken ; I had only loved, I
had never thought of marrying the child  
of gathering her spring into my dull autumn

days. Well, she marked 3'ou. I stood
before the altar, and gave her to you withall
my heart. Her happiness was my sole
desire ; so she was happy, I was content.
What followed then ? She disappeared for
six long years from my eyes, fi-om her world,
hom our world. We heard from chance
acquaintances that you were seen here or
there travelling, now in this place, now in
that, but no direct word from her or you.
So time passed. One morning I took up a
foreign paper casually, and there read the
news of your death somewhere in the East.
Whether that announcement was inserted by
accident or design, I know not. Whether you
desired to relieve yourself of all responsibility
for her whose life you had ruined, whose little
fortune you had squandered, you best know.
A paragraph stated that your wife, then
your widow, was living somewhere in France.
I set myself the task of searching for her,

determining to solve the mystery that had
shrouded her from her wedding-day. At
last  you know where and how  I found
her." He leaned forward, laid a hand on
Lemaire's arm, and glared upon his face
"with an intensity of hatred and of horror
that, hardened though he was, made him
for a moment quail beneath his eyes.

*'I know," he answered, sullenly. ''I
put her there for safety. She was mad ! "

'' Mad ! " echoed Mr. Fleming, with
bitter emphasis that defies description. He
seemed shaken by a storm of passion, which
he found it hard to control ; dark thunder-clouds
gathered in his eyes, and if the lightning
could have leaped forth, it would have
scathed or slain his companion on the spot.
fMad!" he repeated once more. ''No 
but unnerved, terrified, heart-broken, cowed
by your course of cruelty. I don't know by
what devilry you succeeded in placing her

there. I only know that, having squandered
the little fortune she then possessed, you
left her there neglected, forgotten, for four
long years, and there you' child was horn."

"I knew nothing of that," exclaimed
Lejnaire. '' I swear I knew nothing of that
till long afterwards."

"' She was nearly four years old," continued
mr. Fleming, 'when I discovered
them, and after much difficulty and many
formalities I succeeded in releasing, and
brought them away. My poor little Clara !
I hardly knevr her ; so broken in health,
broken in spirit, with nerves all shattered
was but the shadow of herself. Yoic
were, on due authority, reported dead, and
I married her, brought them home, adopted
your child as mine. For a few years sou
left us in peace, in blind security  your
existence dreamed of and forgotten. The
cloud was lifted from Clara's life ; she

slowly regained lier health and splits, and
was once more happy and content. Then
this money  this cursed money, with which
the devil angled for your miserable soul
then, is angling for it now  was left to her ;
at her death to her child or children, failing
them to her Island. Then, and not till
then, you rose from the dead  burst like an
evil spirit upon our happy, peaceful home,
and claimed your wife  vii wife and child ! "
(Both men grew suddenly ashen pale, as
though they lived that terrible time over
again.) *' You threatened her with the law
  nay, worse than the law, you threatened
her with yourself ! Man, you killed her !
as though you had struck her with an open
knife. She died from the shame  shame at
least in the world's eyes  of her position,
the horror and dread of what might be to
come. You threatened her with all the
horrors of judge and jury, the criminal bar,

"where lie should stand on trial for bigamy
T  into which, as I know now, you let her
drift. She could not live to face the scandal
and the shame. Man, I say again, yoic
killed her I "

'This is ail long past," said Lemaire,
harshly; ' it is no use uncovering old
wounds. I may have made some mistakes,
and had my failings as a man, hut that does
not prevent my having feelings as a father !
Let bygones he bygones ; I only ask for
what is right and fah'  the custody of my
own child."

Your child I " echoed Mr. Fleming,
bitterly. "Your cruelty shadowed her life
before she was born. She suffers from 
but there I will tell you nothing of her, and
I would sooner trust her to the mercies of
a wild beast than to t/ou.'''

' Nevertheless, in spite of any crotchet
of yours, I shall have her and take her with

me to the South. You insinuate that she
is delicate, and the trip will do her goods
you know the law is on my side, and
I shall take legal steps to obtain possession
of my child. She is under age  I reminded
you of that before."

"And I answer as before," replied Mr;
Fleming, deliberately. "Under your care
she might not live to come of age."

' You dare to insinuate that in my hands
her life would be in danger ? "

Well, something like that I do plainly
insinuate," replied Mr. Fleming. " I believe
that in your love of greed there is nothing
you would not do ; in your eagerness to
grasp the fortune which will be yours upon
her death  I speak plainly  you might be
led to hasten it."

M. Lemaire seemed in no way to feel
the natural indignation which such an
insinuation might be supposed to awaken >,

but he answered with an unruffled countenance


*' You speak impressively, as though you
were stating a fact ; but you are getting an
old man, Mr. Fleming, full of freaks and
fancies. I cannot be held responsible for
your insane ideas. You have no ground
for your suspicions, no proof of any kind
against me. If your charge or many
charges against me were sifted, they would
fall to the ground for want of evidence.
The law can only deal with proven facts ;
it has nothing to do with morbid notions
such as yours."

At this moment Jack unceremoniously
sauntered into the room.

'excuse the interruption, my dear Uncle,"
he said, " but has not this interview lasted
almost long enough ? Under too much excitement
your invalid friend might have a
relapse, you knows"

VOL. II. 9

Jack's entrance acted like a spell on M.
Lemaire ; lie held his breath and absolutely
gasped for a second, as though he had
received a blow. Quick as a flash a light
broke upon his mind, a suspicion entered
his brain.

*Ah! I remember now," he exclaimed,
as Jack stopped speaking. *' You are young
Jack Swayne ! I see, I understand now
your devotion to my child," he added,
turning to Mr. Fleming. ' I know now
why you have kept her secluded from the
world. You mean to enrich your family
with the wealth that should be mine  to
give my Clarice, your adopted daughter 
ah ! ah ! I declare it sounds quite idyllic 
to this man, your adopted son ! "

*' Be good enough to leave me out of
the question," said Jack, the danger-signal
kindling in his eyes. *' I don't allow people
to take liberties with my name. I am not

SO squeamish as my uncle, and  I don't say
I should  but I might be tempted to send

you flying out of that window, and "

*' ]\I. Lemaire is my guest  Jack, remember
that," said Mr. Fleming, laying a
deprecating hand upon his nephew's arm.

 A fact I cannot be called upon to
Remember, when he forgets it."

* With my own good will I would never
have crossed this accursed threshold," exclaimed
M. Lemaire, furiously. '' I would
as soon have been the guest of the devil ! "
*' That may be a pleasure to come. Best
easy  he will give you a warm welcome one
day ! " said Jack, coolly smiling.

 Meanwhile "  interrupted Mr. Fleming,
evidently anxious to stop the progress of
any conversation between his cool-seeming
but hot-tempered nephew and M. Lemaire;
he felt that matters were slipping out of his
own hand, and it might be out of his power

to control them   I don't believe there is
any reason for prolonging this interview ;
all that we have to say has been said'*

*' True," exclaimed M. Lemaire, 'talking
is done with ; I have now only to act, and
act I think I shall to your confusion."

' I shall be ready to meet you on any
ground you choose," said Mr. Fleming, with
irritating dignity. *' Your only reason for
coming to Penally  so I understand you 
was to claim Clarice ; well, I absolutely
refuse to give her into your custody, or ta
let you know where she is. Appeal to the
law  but I do not think you will dare to
lay your life open to inquiry. Do your best
or your worst, I am prepared ! Now, M.
Lemaire, you are answered."

' Just one parting word of advice," said
Jack. *' I would advise you not to be found
at any future time loitering in this neighbourhood;
for my uncle's keepers are

generally abroad, and  they carry guns, and
you might meet with an accident. Occasionally
I take a gun myself and go in
for the wholesale slaughter of vermin  you
know mistakes will sometimes happen."

Jack's presence acted upon M. Lemaire's
nerves like a red rag on a mad bull ; he grew
furious, and poured forth a volley of threats
and invectives. When people have poor
arguments on their side, they can always
take refuge in a storm of wild words.
Presently he paused to take breath, and
glared irefully upon the two men, who
remained unmoved by his wild ravings.
Jack, whistling an operatic air, looked out
of the window, while Mr. Fleming sat silent
with closed lips as though he had said the
last word he meant to utter.

How you must love the sound of your
oi voice ! " exclaimed Jack, during the
momentary pause ; '' when you have quite

finished amusing yourself with this strong
language, perhaps you will let me have the
pleasure of driving you to the station  the
carriage is at the door."

At this juncture Hans made his appearance
with M. Lemaire's overcoat and
travelling-bag ; which had been forwarded
to the Manor House soon after his arrival
there. M. Lemaire felt that it would be
wise to take the hint, and close the interview.
It had not ended so satisfactorily
as he had hoped it would ; and he went,
away no wiser than he came, so far as the
chief object of his visit was concerned. He
saw, from the general aspect of affairs, that
he had better retire from the scene with
what dignity he could. Turning a look of
suppressed fury upon Mr. Fleming, he said  

* I wish you a good day, Mr. Fleming;
our next meeting will be in another place,
and will not end  like this." Mr. Fleming

bent his head, but uttered not a voyH. M.
Lemaire added, '* If I were strong enough I
would walk to the station. If you will be
good enough I should prefer that your man
should drive me," he continued, darting a
look of hatred at Jack ; " I am in no mood
for company."

Couldn't think of it ! " exclaimed the
imperturbable Jack. " For some days I have
been looking forward to this pleasure, and I
am sure you wouldn't wish to deprive me
of it. Don't be afraid ; I shall not trouble
you with much conversation. I shall smoke ;
you can admire the landscape."

He kept his word, and left M. Lemaire to
his meditations. Somehow they seemed
to have been expected at the station. M.
Lemaire seemed to be the only passenger;
though there were a few stragglers on the
platform, their only object seemed to be
straggling, and as M. Lemaire passed to

the booking-office they regarded him with
curious eyes. He took his ticket for
London, and with a mocking bow, but
never a spoken word, to Jack Swayne, he
placed himself in a first-class carriage.
Meanwhile a little bit of by-play was taking
place, which he omitted to notice. In fact,
the last hours at the Manor House had
been so exciting that he felt exhausted, too
worn-out, for anything ; he wanted quiet
and rest. He leaned back in his seat, and
tried to pull himself together. A venerable-looking
man, a clergyman evidently by his
dress and the generally grave benignity of
his demeanour, suddenly appeared upon the
scene. He and Mr. Swayne were evidently
well acquainted ; they shook hands cordially,
and after a few minutes' conversation he
sauntered along the platform, got into the
compartment, and seated himself opposite
to M. Lemaire.

AFTER a brief consultation with this
uncle, Jack followed M. Lemaire by
a late afternoon train to London ; and Mr.
Fleming, as soon as the house was well
cleared, drove down to the village and
fetched Clarice home.

It is so nice to be back again, father
dear," she exclaimed, as she nestled on a
stool at his feet, her arms crossed upon his
knees, on this their first evening together
after her brief absence. ' It seemed so
strange and mysterious to be sent away just
because a stranger was staying here. Won't

you tell me something about him?" she
added, lifting an inquiring look to his face.

*' The details of a sick-room are not very
interesting, my daring ; and you have been
very happy away ? " he added, anxiously.

* Everybody has been very kind to me''
replied Clarice; ' and I have tried to be
always cheerful, and to take an interest in
things I didn't care about. But it is so
hard to be always trying to seem something-different
from what you are ; somehow I felt
like a fish out of water trying to walk on its
tail''

 Still, on the whole you have been welland
 less nervous ? " So he framed the
question ; he could not ask in plainer words.
He scrutinized her face anxiously as he spoke.

* Perhaps  I suppose so," she answered.
** Once or twice, when I felt those dreadful
feelings you know of coming on," she added,
speaking below her breath, * I was afraid

people might know, and think I was queer ;
so I fought against them  I hardly know
how, but I did, and I frightened them away,
and nobody knew  nobody ever knew I "

She closed her eyes and laid her head
U2:)on his knee. He stroked her golden hair
silently, soothingly, for awhile. There was
comfort in what she had said. So she
could, under strong motive, control those
morbid fancies, the pre-natal curse that
clung to her, and marred the freshness
of her beautiful young life. There was a
possibility, since she could once control
them, that she might outgrow these alternate
attacks of depression and terror of things
that had no existence. His heart beat high
at the possibility, but he said nothing, made
no remark whatever upon the subject ; it
would be better that she should be unconsciously
acted upon. Without preparation
the current of changeful circumstances, or

current of electricity, that has always such
a subtle effect upon the nervous system of
our human machinery, might banish the
cobwebs that occasionally, and only occasionally,
clouded her brain. After a few
moments of that silence which to both was
more eloquent than speech, he said 

'' You are a brave, dear child, and the old
dad is glad to have his darling home again ! ' '
She only purred in answer, and rubbed her
cheek upon his hand with the dumb motion
of a contented animal. ' Are you quite
contented here, my darling?" he added;
** you would not like to leave Penally ? "

* Leave Penally!" exclaimed Clarice, a
startled look coming into her face. '' No,
I don't think I shall ever want to leave
Penally."

'nor I either," he answered, 'except
perhaps for a time, for a little change  if it
were necessary."

*' I don't see why it should be necessary'*
she rejoined. *rit is a lovely place, and I am
beginning to like the people. You know I
never have liked people before, I have always
avoided or been glad to get away from them ;
and Miriam, whom I did not at all like at
first, is beginning to be quite a friend of
mine."

'' I can't say I care for any of the Spencers
much," said Mr. Fleming ; " the young
fellow is the best of them."

Hugh ! Oh, of course ! " exclaimed
Clarice, as though there could not be a
doubt about it.

'' Hugh ! " repeated Mr. Fleming. " My
dear child, how long is it that you have
learned to call gentlemen by their Christian
names ? "

'' Only since three days ago, dad dear,"
she answered, * when he asked me to. And
I like it  it is not so formal as Mr. Spencer;

and when one knows people very well, one
doesn't care to be formal."

' But I thought young Spencer was not
coming back till late autumn."

' But he has," she answered quickly; *she
arrived at the Rectory on Friday last. I don't
think they expected him, but he came  and
they were not particularly glad to see him."

sand how do you know that? " he inquired,
seeming much interested.

*' Miriam told me."

* Ay ! So you've been keeping up a
brisk correspondence with the Rectory
people ? " he observed.

 Yes, especially since Hugh's been
home," she answered. *' He came to see Miss
Parkes every day, and always brought her
fruit or flowers, or something he thought she
would like to have."

*' Called to see Miss Parkes every day ! "
he repeated, with elevated brows.

Wasn't it kind of him ? " said Clarice ;
' and every evening too he dropped in, and
I used to sing for him, and sometimes we
sang duets together."

x\lso for Miss Parkes's benefit!" he
interrupted, with a touch of satire which,
however, escaped her notice, *to cultivate
her taste for music ! "

' She generally slept through it," laughed
Clarice, '' and accompanied us with such
snorts and gasps and growling as I never
heard, except when Katrina's taking forty
winks."

* And the Doctor, did he go to sleep
too?" inquired the old man, smiling as
though he quite appreciated the situation.

' Ah ! there was never any music when
nie was at home," she answered; ''he calls
it a ' noise,' and says it disturbs him  he
can't think or do anything while it is going
on." She paused a second, then added, *' It

is quite a treat to sing to Hugh, he not only
loves music, but he feels it, and appreciates
and sympathizes with the spirit of it  so
different from other people. You know,
darling, neither you nor Jack really care
for music."

'' How can you say that," said the old
man, reproachfully, * when we make you
sing to us every night ! "

** Because you love me, and you know
that I love it," replied Clarice. ' But I
always notice that music acts as a lullaby
and sends you to sleep ; and Jack looks so
bored I sometimes get quite vexed, and vow
to myself that I'll never afflict him with
another note. But I can't help it : music is
a part of me, and seems to carry me on its
invisible wings to another world, and I am
so surprised to find myself back in this.
Jack doesn't understand that. With Hugh
it is altogether different."

* You seem to have had a very pleasant
time," said the old man, cheerily, though
with a slightly troubled spirit.  You and
young Spencer appear to have got on very
well together ; you  like him ? "

'' Like him ! " she echoed ; '' do I ? " she
added, as though the idea had only just
occurred to her. *' Well, I don't know, but
I suppose I do."

Mr. Fleming smiled and pinched her
cheek, as he said, half jokingly 

'* But not as you like Jack ? "

Oh no ! in quite a different sort of way.
Dear old Jack," she added, smiling affectionately,
''he is always so good! Ah, what
delightful rambles we used to have  he and
Hugh, and Miriam and I ; we were quite a
ipleRSBJit 201 r tie carrce.'''

Mr. Fleming smiled contentedly. He had
been half inclined to be jealous of Hugh ina
vicarious sort of way, but Clarice's frank-vol.

II. 10

ness, the absence of confusion and self-consciousness,
reassured him, and he was
content. He knew so little of women. He
knew nothing of the art of self-deception
which nature teaches them to practise in
such blind, innocent unconsciousness that,
before they are well aware of it, they are
lost in an intricate love-maze, where many
wiser heads and stronger hearts have been
lost before them.

Very happily venerable age and beautiful
youth spent together their first hours of reunion.
Clarice amused him with the daily
history of her life since she had been away
from home. Although they had held daily
communication with each other, there was
still so much to tell. She had grown quite
fond of the genial Doctor, and looked with
tender eyes upon the peculiarities of his
sister, whose heart was good, though inordinate
vanity held its stronghold in her

elderly brain, and sent her common sense
astray. Somehow the name of ' Hugh,"
varied with the occasional introduction of
Miriam, cropped up oftener than Mr. Fleming
quite approved.

In the course of conversation Clarice
made some few inquiries concerning hi
late guest. His answers were so vague that
she could not help feeling that there was a
sort of concealment and reticence about Mr.
Fleming that was not the result of chance,
and was most unusual with him, for as a
rule there had always been a perfectly harmonious
confidence between them  the rule
v\'as broken now. More than once he was
on the verge of taking her fully into his
confidence and telling her all that had
taken place. Then he remembered the terror
that had been born sith her  that her baby
brain had been shaken by an undefined
dread of something ; then her fears had

taken shape, and she had learned too from
her mother's experience to dread the father
who had been no father. This dread lest
her child should suffer as she had suffered
had impelled the unhappy mother on her
death-bed to extract that promise from Mr.
Fleming which he resolved at any price to
hold sacred.

If Clarice were to know that M. Lemaire
had actually come to Penally to demand her
custody, had stayed at the Manor House
and breathed the atmosphere of her home,
she might feel that he had left the impress
of his presence in the air ; for surely, since
disease clings to the walls, and floats subtly
and invisibly in the air we breathe, may not
an evil presence linger there likewise, and
reveal itself in some mysterious way through
the senses, especially when the mind is
prepared and ready to receive such an influence
? He therefore felt that the facts, if

they came to her knowledge, might have an
adverse effect upon her mind  just at this
time, too, when he fancied that her nature
was undergoing a kind of heaHng change,
and her spirit slowly lifting itself out of the
world of shadows into a purer, healthier
light.

So, after giving the matter due consideration,
he resolved to keep his own counsel,
and let her remain in happy ignorance.
Thus the ill-omened gap in their lives was
bridged over, and the tide of the days and
hours once more rolled calmly on. They
resumed their old habits, and wandered
along the seashore, and among the low-lying
rocks when the tide was out, hunting
for the specimens so dear to the old man's
heart. Their close companionship was as
tender and loving as it had always been,
but something told him that his companionship
was not so all-sufficient for the young

girl as it had hitherto been. It seemed as
though she was not able to settle back in
the old life in the old way; there was a
vague sense of unrest about her, a blind
reaching out for something that was not
there. She wandered about with Mr. Fleming,
and ministered to him in sundry little
ways as she had always done, but she did
the familiar things not in the old familiar
way ; there was a preoccupation about her
that at last attracted his attention.

' I am afraid you feel the Manor House a
little lonesome after the Doctor's bustling
household, my pet," he said one evening, as
she seemed more listless and preoccupied
than usual. ' You seem to have had a
lively time there, and perhaps you feel the
change ? "

*' Well," she answered, reluctantly, "I
suppose it is a kind of reaction ; but I do
feel a little dull sometimes, not the old dead

dulness, something quite different. I seem
to be listening for something I cannot hear,
looking for things that never come. You
see we have been so used to have Jack
about the place, I dare say his being away
makes a difference."

"I'll send for him," said the old man,
eagerly, fancying the very shadow of the
straw told him which way the wind was
blowing; *die was loth to go, and will be
only too glad to come back."

Xo, no ! not for the world ! " exclaimed
Clarice, alarmed at the spirit her light words
had evoked ; '' but I think I should like 
if you wouldn't mind," she added quickly 
'sto ask Miriam to come and spend a week
with me."

My dear child, I shall be delighted ! " he
answered readily. " Pray write and ask her
to come at once I I always thought the
society of young people was exactly what

you wanted, and now you are beginning to
find it out yourself."

She answered nothing for a moment, but
seemed to be reflecting ; then she said in a
low voice 

 I can't quite understand myself, but I
shall be glad to have Miriam here. But,
dad darling," she added, stealing her arms
lovingly about his neck,  you don't mind?
you don't think I'm ungrateful, or that I
care the less for you because I am beginning
to care a little for other people ? I shall
always love you best of all the world  you
are more to me than any father ever was to
any child. I could never do enough, never
be enough."

* Tut, tut, my darling, you make my old
eyes water ! " he answered, with a tender
caress. * Why, you are the joy and comfort
of my Hfe ! But as for loving me the
best of all the world !  no, no, that would be

unnatural, and I don't expect it. I hope
you will some day be happy in a better  at
least not a better, but a different kind of
love. I should be glad  you don't know how
glad  to give you into a true love's keeping ;
for I am an old man, darling, older than my
years, and I have a presentiment that my
days are fast fading, and I have not long to
live ; and I am called upon to set my house
in order."

'' Don't, don't ! " she exclaimed, shivering
as though his words had struck upon
her naked soul. Why will you talk so,
when you know how wretched it makes
me ? What would become of your poor
Clarice ? How could she live without
you?"

Mr. Fleming had not intended to give a
sombre turn to Clarice's thoughts, but he retraced
the false step as quickly as he could.

' Well, well," he rejoined, quite cheerfully,

* we must not meet troubles half-way.
God is good, and I dare say will let me live
as long as you want me."

'Then you will live as long as I do!"
she exclaimed, smiling through the tears
that, like an April shower, had gathered in
her eyes.

Then he skilfully guided the conversation
into a brighter channel : they talked of
Miriam's visit, and what they should do to
amuse her when she came. He knew how
Clarice loved the sea, and suggested that
perhaps Jack might be induced to bring his
yacht, the Firefly, round, and take them
for a cruise in the Mediterranean ; indeed,
he had long ago half promised to organize
some such little trip  as poor Miriam fancied,
for her pleasure.

When Katrina attended her young mistress
that evening, she thought that for many a
day she had not seen her look so blooming

nor in such cheerful spirits. There was a
soft light shining in her eyes, climj)lecl smiles
rippled over the lovely face, and the very
blood seemed coursing through her veins to
a joyful tune. The old nurse lingered longer
than usual over Clarice's golden tresses,
combing and combing with a sort of drowsy
precision, as though she was trying to mesmerize
the brain, and coax it to give up any
of the fancies or wild imaginings that might
be entangled there, that through them she
might learn the why and the wherefore of
the change that had come over her. But
the brain kept its own secret, and the sweet
lips told her nothing. Before they parted
Clarice kissed the old lady on both cheeks,
saying

* Good-night, Katrina dear. I feel as
though we were leaving our dark days behind
us and going to find a new world, a
new sun ! We will have a gay summer now.

Good-night. I'm quite tired; I want to
sleep."

Did she sleep ? Ah ! who can tell ? Who
can trespass on a maidens slumbers, or follow
her through the shadowy land of dreams !

LOVE S YOUNG DEE AM.

THE next morning, just as they were
sitting down to breakfast, a letter was
handed to Mr. Fleming.

'from the Eectory, sir; and the messenger
waits for an answer," said Hans.

*' Say that I'll be there in less than an
hour," exclaimed Mr. Fleming, as he
glanced through the epistle ; '' and Hans,
order the horses round at once, that I may
start as soon as I have finished breakfast."

"What is the matter, father dear?"
inquired Clarice.

"Nothing of any consequence, my child,"

he answered  *' nothing, at least, that closely
concerns his. I fancy that military hero,
Ben, has got into some trouble."

'poor old Ben, he's always getting into
hot water  I think he suffers from Tel el
Kebir on the brain," said Clarice, as she
proceeded leisurely to pour out the coffee.
"Don't hurry, dear, you know it always
gives you indigestion; and the business  
Ben's business, at least  will not spoil by
a few minutes' delay."

They proceeded leisurely with their breakfast.
The sea-breeze, laden with its fresh
briny odours, swept in through the open
window; the air was filled with the song
of birds and the drowsy hum of the industrious
bees, on their honey-seeking wanderings
; the flowers nodded their plumed heads
in at the window, their mute perfumed lips
breathing a welcome to her who loved them :
they had not been neglected during her

absence  the gardener had given them water
when they were thirsty and looked after
them in a general way, but it was a rough
way, different from her loving, tender care.
She regarded her flowers as sentient things
that could feel a kind touch, and shivered
and shrank from rough handling ; for even
the thirsty flowers are more refreshed by
the delicate draught daintily given, than by
a whole bucket full of water flung over
them just to keep them from dying. The
dumb, still Hfe that gives so much and takes
so little, is a ceaseless and pathetic appeal
to om human affections.

It was a pretty home-picture. Bouncer
was seated, tall and erect, by his mistress's
side, his faithful eyes fixed upon her face,
and the many thumps of his tail upon the
floor told her how glad he was to be home
again. He had had rather a hard time at
Miss Parkes's, being constantly irritated by

the presence of her favourite tabby  Grim
Of course Bouncer knew well enough
that puss was on her own ground, and had
the best right there ; but conscientious
scruples cannot always be expected to hold
with the best of dogs, and in some secret
occult fashion Bouncer made inroads upon
Griselda's peace of mind : he forced her
from her stronghold upon the hearthrug,
where she had blinked and dozed through
her kittenish days, and even when she took
refuge in her mistress's work-basket, harried
her from that abode of bliss. At last things
broke out into a state of open warfare. One
day, loud barking and feline cursing and
swearing were heard in the library, and
Bouncer was discovered in a state of furious
excitement, making frantic attempts to
reach Griselda, who had sprang to the top
of the bookcase, and sat there swelling out
of all proportion, spitting and hurling down

smothered curses on her enemy. As a rule
this kind of affair was beneath Bouncer's
dignity  all other minor animals were safe
from him ; but a cat ! it was not in human
I mean not in canine nature to lie down
with such an enemy. Bouncer was caught
red-handed, with his mouth full of Griselda's
fm, and was at once relegated to the stable.

*' I'm sorry to send him out of the house,,
my dear, as you are so fond of him," apologized
Miss Partes; but he's a dangerous
beast; he'll be best in the stable  if he
worries the horses they'll kick his brains
out."

Clarice felt and expressed great sorrow
for poor Griselda, and herself conveyed
Bouncer to his place of punishment, talking
to him reproachfully by the way, trying to
show him what a bad, wicked dog he had
been; but though he hung his head and
looked ashamed, he was unrepentant ; there

VOL. II. 11

was a look of cat-incite in his eye which
told what he would do if he had another
opportunity. He felt the degradation of
his position keenly, as any dog of self-respect
and dignity would do; hut there
was no help for it  to the stables he must
go, and sleep on straw like a poor parish
casual. Well, the evil days were over now
they were all at home once more.

The meal progressed, eggs were cracked,
toast demolished, and even the morning
paper spelt over before they rose from the
table, when Clarice said suddenly, as though
the idea had just occurred to her 

*' May I go with you to the Eectory?
I think I should enjoy the drive, and I
could give Miriam a personal invitation:
that would be nicer than writing  and,
who knows, perhaps Miriam may come back
with us."

' If you think that likely, you had better

have your ponies out," said Mr. Fleming.
* I've heard Miss Spencer say she objected
to drive in a two wheeled vehicle."

Ah, yes, she was thrown out once, and
that naturally gave her a scare," said
Clarice ; *' so perhaps we had better have
the ponies. ' '

"Then make haste and get ready; I
should like to start at once."

Clarice was soon hatted and gloved, and
the ponies trotted off through the beautiful
still morning air, with the sea stretching
away on the one side, lost in the misty
purple-tinted clouds that rested on the
horizon, and the soft swelling hills and
wooded wonders with all their leafy wonders
on the other.

They soon reached the Rectory, and were
at once ushered into the study, where the
Eector himself was installed with all the
virtues of stern inexorable justice throned

upon his brow. In a small adjoining room,
waiting the reverend gentleman's leisure,
was the delinquent Ben, m custody of the
rural policeman, who had found him in the
wood before daybreak, and in his possession
two rabbits and a hare, which he admitted
he had obtained on the Manor House
grounds.

*'My dear Mr. Fleming," said the Eector,
shaking hands cordially with his neighbour,
* I am sure you will excuse my sending for
you in this informal way, but I want you
to see for yourself with what base ingratitude
that fellow Ben repays your kindness.
Over consideration and generosity to this
sort of people are a mistake. If you remember
I have suggested something of the
kind to you  now I'm going to show you
an example of it."

* I'm sorry to hear it, for Ben is rather
a 2otege of mine," said Mr. Fleming; I

don't think he has been kindly dealt with
that's why I always take his part."

'' Ah," exclaimed the Rector, with a
satisfied grunt, '' and you've i)rotcgcd him
to some purpose."

He summoned the occupants from the
next room, and in another moment policeman
X Y 2 appeared upon the threshold,
looking, and swelling with official dignity,
as pompous as the Eector's self; beside him,
with a sullen downcast expression of countenance,
stood Ben, loaded with his unlawful
spoils.

' There ! " exclaimed the Rector, triumphantly,
addressing Mr. Fleming, and evidently
expecting horror and indignation to
take possession of his venerable countenance,
' see how you have been deceived* You
thought you had put that fellow in the way
of getting an honest living : see how he
can-lies out your idea  by poaching on your

own grounds and literally robbing his benefactor
! Well, what have you got to say
for yourself? "  this roughly to Ben.

' I don't want to say nothing' at all'*
snarled Ben, with a furtive glance at Mr.
Fleming's face, as though to see how he
was likely to regard the affair ;  and if
anybody's hard-up for want of a rabbit, I'll
give 'em up."

* No insolent levity here, sir," said the
Rector, with a vindictive snap. *1'11 stop
your snaring propensities for the future,
and send you to gaol for the longest period
the law allows."

* One moment," exclaimed Mr. Fleming;
* is it with this offence only you are dealing
? "

** Only with this at present," replied the
Rector, rubbing his hands gleefully; ' but
I dare say if we give him a chance "

* But I don't want to give him a chance,"

interrupted ]mr. Fleming, " and I am not
so sure that this is an offence after alL
The fact is, though you may not be aware
of it, I have given leave to some of oui'
poorer neighbours to relieve me of a few
rabbits now and then. There are thousands
running wild about my place, and they doa
great deal of damage ; I am rather glad
to get rid of them. But I think you ought
to be contented with one at a time, Ben,"
he added, reproachfully.

But, my dear su," gasped Mr. Spencer,
'you don't understand that this is a case
of poaching  not so much an offence against
you as against the Law and you have not
the right to condone it."

My dear friend, you need not fear my
stepping an inch beyond my right," answered
Mr. Fleming ; " but where there ino wrong
committed there can be no condonation,
and I certainly have the right to give my

poorer neighbours the liberty of taking a
few rabbits off my grounds."

But have you given this man the right? "
inquired the Rector.

** I am not on oath," said Mr. Fleming,
smiling,  and 1 cannot swear to trifling
facts; but I have given a kind of general
permission, and I dare say Ben so understood
it."

'* Of course T did," said the mendacious
Ben ; * I don't think much o' laws, as a
rule, but I wouldn't go again Mr. Fleming 
no, not for ten thousand rabbits."

''Do you really wish the fellow to get off
scot-free, after so grossly trespassing on your
property ? " inquired the amazed Rector.

*' I don't admit the trespass, and I do
wish him to go free," replied Mr. Fleming,
decidedly.

'then let him go, policeman," said the
Eector. " Be off, Ben  you've escaped this

time by the skin of your teeth ; if I had my
vill I'd commit you for ten days''

' Better hick next time, sir," exclaimed
Ben, grinning from ear to ear; ' essay
yer'U find some poor hungry cretur pulling
a carrot stump or a turnip to keep her from
starving  yer can enjoy herself then, yer
know, and give her double. It's a pity yer
can't have folks flogged as well as gaoler 
wouldn't yer enjoy seeing the blood fly ! "
He gathered up his spoils ; he made a most
reverential obeisance to Mr. Fleming.
You're a gentleman, you are, sir, and if
ever yer want a man as 'ud swear away his
life for yer, here's one as 'ud do it."

This flattering offer was received in silent
deprecation by Mr. Fleming, and a look of
intensified condemnation hurled from the
Eector's reverend brow.

When the two gentlemen where left alone,
the conversation naturally rising out of the

foregone interview turned upon the game
laws, which they discussed in a lively
characteristic fashion ; and the Rector tried
to convince Mr. Fleming that by his wrongheaded
leniency he was helping Ben, and
others of that ilk, on their way to the
gallows, but somehow he didn't seem to
believe it.

'* Besides, my dear friend," added the
Rector, '' consider your neighbours, who
one and all feel very strongly on the point ;
you will have the whole county in a blaze if
you allow this sort of thing. ' '

' I am sorry," he answered, *' but I
cannot square my conscience to 7117/ neighbours'
rule of right. I must act on my own
responsibility as they on theirs."

** But you know coursing has always been
such a favourite sport, and if everybody
followed your example, where would it be ?
Why nowhere ! "

'Aud I don't think humanity would
suffer very much from the want of it. I
think it would he quite as well if some few
other manly sports  pigeon-shooting among
them  were banished into ' nowhere.' At
any rate, I'm not disposed to preserve that
sort of game for the rich while my poorer
neighbours are starving."

What very odd notions you have, my
dear friend," rejoined the Eector ; "I see it
is no use to argue the matter."

' It would be rather a waste of time,"
said Mr. Fleming, smiHng, ' and I really
think we might be better employed in
paying our respects to the ladies, for
instance. I brought Clarice over with me,
and I think she is trying to persuade Mrs.
Spencer to allow your daughter to come on
a visit to the Manor House for a few days."

Meanwhile the ladies had been arranging
their own business ; the invitation had been

cordially given and graciously accepted ;
for, in spite of Mrs. Spencer's often-uttered
animadversions on *' the Manor House
people," she never lost an opportunity of
cultivating their acquaintance, and was
delighted that her daughter Miriam should
be invited on a visit there. Who could tell
what insight into forbidden mysteries she
might obtain ? or what crumbs of gossip she
might gather together to feed the hungry
maws of the curious, whose early awakened
appetites were still unsatisfied, and the
game of speculation was still being carried
on and somehow with redoubled interest
since M. Lemaire's advent.

'* The whole of the proceedings at that
time were strange, to say the least of it "  so
everybody said; the least light thrown upon
the subject would be eagerly welcomed.
The injured man's very name was unknown.
He had been thrown wounded into their

midst, and accordingly he was everybody's
property; each felt that individually they
had a vested interest in him. But the Manor
House had taken possession of him, and
then hustled him out of the village without
giving any one a chance of a word with
him. Those who could speak. Dr. Parkes
and Mr. Fleming, were both absolutely
dumb.

So Miriam and her healthy appetite went
off to the Manor House next day, and it
was not difficult for the mother's heart to
speculate on the probability of Hugh's frequently
transferring himself and his alarming
hunger to the same place ; which domestic
arrangement would be greatly beneficial to
the Rectory larder, which had suffered
severely from his wolfish attacks  it was
always empty.

There quickly began a new reign of
pleasant days and hours at the Manor

House ; and Hugh, as well as Miriam,
became almost domiciled there, for never
a day passed without his making his
appearance during some part of it. He
quite won Mr. Fleming's heart, too, by
the interest he took in his specimens; he
made himself useful in many ways, and
spent whole hours in the sanctum , assisting
in the arranging and cataloguing of his
collection, and enlivened the somewhat
monotonous routine by telling lively anecdotes
of things he had heard and people he
had known, all more or less interesting or
laughable. Everything reminded him of
something else; in the midst of the most
dry-adust proceeding he would burst out
in his hearty, genial way, * By the bye, that
reminds me, etc," and he rushed ois into
some wild, improbable story, for the truth
of which he was ready to vouch on a ' mile
of bibles ; " and the old man felt that his

studies had never been so pleasant, nor
his labours so lightened, as \hen Hugh
Spencer shared them.

So it fell out that he grew to look for the
young man's coming, and to fret and chafe
if he were delayed for a few hours ; he
wanted to show him this, or consult him
about that ; in fact Hugh was always in
demand, and he could not settle down to
his  labour of love" until he came. So
things arranged themselves pleasantly for
all parties, and somehow it became a habit
for Hugh to stay to dinner ; then came the
pleasant twilight hours, when the old man
indulged in his after-dinner nap, and
Miriam, who was not musical, betook herself
with her shaded lamp and her embroidery
to the other end of the room, and
Hugh coaxed Clarice  who did not need
much coaxing, by the bye  to sit down to
the piano and play to him snatches of

dreamy melodies, and sometimes they sang
together in soft, low voices through the
drowsy twilight. One evening they lingered
thus longer than usual, till the twilight had
died away, and the crescent moon, outlined
sharp and clear as a silver scythe, shone
from the dark-blue skies, and sent its pale
beams wandering through the dusky air till
they glided into the room where they were
seated and kissed Clarice's hands, and
touched her golden hair with a silvery
light, Mr. Fleming still slept, and Miriam
still bent over her embroidery, sending the
needle in and out with the monotonous
precision that is so irritating to the nerves
of the idle looker on. Clarice stopped
playing, and let her hands fall idly in her
lap.

Come out for a turn on the terrace 
do ; it is such a lovely night ! " Hugh whispered
softly in her ear.

' I always enjoy an evening stroll," she
smiled in answer, ' and I always have it
too  no matter what the weather is ; indeed
I rather like a ramble on a stormy night,
when the sea seems fall of strange voices,
and the wind moans and blows us hither
and thither, and the rain comes inciting in
our faces  the very struggle to keep our
feet is a delightful sensation."

"But surely such a night as this "

he began.

Oh, these nights are well enough, but I
like the wild weather best ; there is something
in me that seems to understand and
answer to the storm. Come, Miriam," she
added, quickly, throwing a lace mantle over
her head.

'thanks, dear  I'm tired," Miriam
answered; "I've been walking the greater
part of the day. Besides, I want to finish
this piece of work; I've been lazy long

VOL. II. 12

enough ; if I don't stick to it, it will never
be done."

So Hugh and Clarice passed out together.
The twilight shadows lay upon the landscape,
shrouding its features so that trees,
shrubs, and flowers were merely blurred
and blotted outlines, leaving nothing distinct.
On the one side they knew the sea,
with its living world of mysteries, was
stretching away beyond the limit of the
land out of their sight, veiled in a grey
mist like a valley of shadows, but they
could hear its soft lullaby as it ran rippling
along the shore. The two paced slowly up
and down, listening with their spirits' ears
to other tales than the whispering wind or
wandering waves could tell them. Neither
spoke much, only now and then a few low
uttered words, that in the dreamy silence
sounded like a caress, and that was all. A
silence that was more eloquent than speech

brooded over there, and drew them together,
and held them fast in its invisible magic
bonds. So, enjoying the sweet Inquiry of
silence, they stepped like noiseless shadows
side by side through the dusky night. The
crescent moon had slowly faded, and above
their heads the deep blue skies were bloom
with golden stars, and among them long
trailing feathery clouds were floating.

Clarice had never thought or speculated
about love ; she had known no maidenly
hopes or fears or wonderment at all. She
only felt that when Hugh was by the
whole aspect of the world was changed.
His presence made all the difference to her,
brought light where there was darkness,
and set her life dimpling with sunshine and
gladness. When he was by, time flew
"swift as the swallow's flight ; " when he
was absent, it hobbled as though its winged
feet were hampered with a leaden clog.

Presently she sat down, filled with a
tremulous joy and most sweet content, and
he placed himself beside her under the
flickering shadow of the silver birch.
Somehow his hand took possession of hers,
and his arm softly circled her supple waist,
and she became conscious that a pair of
passionate eyes were gazing into the chaste
depths of hers, and a voice, his voice,
sounding to her as in a dream, said softly 

'Clarice, you know I love you! " The
floodgates of speech once opened, his long
suppressed feelings found vent, and his first
brief words were followed by a torrent of
loving, passionate protestations. His arms
were round her still ; she made no effort to
release herself from their embrace, but she
answered nothing as he poured his Having
love, with all love's purest eloquence, into
her ears. She remained motionless as a
statue, as though she neither heard, saw,

or felt. His revelation seemed to paralyze
her senses, and woke no answer either from
her heart or lips.

 ]\Iy love ! my lily bud ! won't you
speak?" he urged, anxiously, at last. He
waited a moment ; no word came, but he
fancied the frail figure quivered slightly.
** Is it  my God, is it that you doit care ? "
There was a ring of such intense pain in
his voice that it forced her, with a kind of
mesmeric power, to turn her face to his.
Even beneath the starlight he saw that her
face was radiant with something more than
its own beauty, and her eyes were shining
as through a mist that was not of sorrow.
He saw  he knew  by some subtle telegraphy
 she had no need to speak. In the
sweet abandonment of a pure, innocent love,
she let her arms fall about his neck.

'I do care," she murmured in a voice
scarcely above a whisper. '' Oh, Hugh !

my Hugh ! I think I have loved you
always ! "

The fan head drooped upon his breast,
and with a proud, passionate exultation,
that words could poorly express, he clasped
her close in his arms. She lifted her face,
and their lips met in one long, illimitable
kiss ; and all the world, all the to-morrows,
all the kisses that might follow after, would
never wash away the memory of this one 
the firstborn of a sweet, pure love.

** Clarice ! Clarice ! where are you ?
Come in, the dews are falling," exclaimed
a familiar voice, which brought them
straight down from heaven to earth. A
footstep sounded on the gravel ; some one
was groping blindly towards them.

*' Here we are, father dear," said a soft
voice from the shadows of the birch tree ;
and the two, who had climbed the heights
of human felicity, came tumbling down

from the cloiicllancl of creamy delights to
face the commonplace of to-day. Their
secret joy was already over, quietly passing
away to rest amid the dead yesterdays.

chalice's confidence.

THE next morning when Hugh arrived
at the Manor House he found Clarice
looking pale and shy and silent, returning
only a quiet smile in answer to the greeting
of his glad, passionate young eyes. Any
observant looker-on must have read his story
there as plainly as if it had been printed.
Miriam saw it ; she knew, and was glad 
not perhaps quite unselfishly glad. We are
all more rejoiced in our brother's fortune,
if we can carry forward and set down some
slight balance to our own account.

The lovers got no single word together

on Hugh's arrival, for Mr. Fleming at once
carried the young man off to his sanctum
believing that in doing so he was paying
him the greatest possible compliment : it
was not everybody he would have trusted to
handle his butterflies and bluebottles. He
had some cause to find his confidence misplaced
on the present occasion; for somehow
Hugh's general intelligence seemed to
desert him. He was in his customary high
spirits, and was as amusing and chatty as
ever, but he handled things nth a roughness
that made the old man tremble, and
he was cautioning him to ''be careful" all
the time. Then he made a ridiculous mistake,
and arranged the wing of a butterfly
to the body of a death's-head moth. With
much difficulty that was rectified. At last,
to crown all, in a state of demented felicity,
he sat down on a case of newly arranged
valuable specimens, and went crashing

through the insect world ; and in one
minute destroyed the labours of a week.
Never did a bull in a china-shop do so much
damage in so short a time !

Mr Fleming, in a horrified condition of
mind  which courtesy towards his guilty
guest led him to conceal as far as possible  
awoke to the fact that his sagacious young
friend was a little too much for him on
this special morning ; indeed there was
altogether a reckless flightiness in his manner
that was quite alarming, and, judging in all
charity, Mr. Fleming fancied he had perhaps
been smoking too much, or something worse ;
or perhaps these were only symptoms of an
impending fever fiend ! and mildly he suggested


 I don't think you are very well this
morning. You know things should be taken
in time ; it does not do to neglect early
symptoms. There! there!" he added, in

some alarm, seeing Hugh was about to
attack a newly arrived treasure. ' God bless
my soul ! your pulse is going like a steam-hammer.
I really think you had better go
home and take a pill, or consult Dr. Parkes,
and you may be all right tomorrow."

* I do feel a little queer," admitted Hugh,
with a comical expression of countenance,
rejoiced to receive his polite dismissal ;
*' but a ramble through your beautiful woods
will do me more good than a sack of pills ora
whole army of doctors. Au revoir ! You're
sure I can do nothing more for you this
morning? "

Mr. Fleming frankly declined for the
present : he considered he had done quite
enough. As soon as Hugh's back was turned,
he set himself to repair the mischief he had
done. The young man rushed off in search
of Clarice. He could not find her in the
house ; but Miriam was in the morning-room.

torturing the piano out of its senses, playing
and practising in a dull, monotonous way, as
people do who have no music in their souls.
But she was conscientiously bound, by the
stern maternal law, to practise at least one
hour every day ; and she did her duty.

* Well ! " she exclaimed, as Hugh put
his head in at the door.

' Where's Clarice ? " he inquired.

' Gone out. I wanted her to stay and
have a practise with me, but she wouldn't,"
answered Miriam, in a slightly aggrieved
tone.

I should think not ! Your style of practising
would drive any real lover of music
mad," was his rejoinder.

*' You needn't be rude;" and Miriam
banged away louder than ever.

Did she say which way she was going ? "
he asked, eagerly.

'' No, and I don't think she expects you to

follow her. She said she wanted to talk to
something or somebody who wouldn't answer
back ; so I suppose she has gone into the
woods to have a pleasant conversation, and
listen to the trees* dumb talk as the heathens
used to do. She has got such queer ways 
sometimes, I think, quite unchristian ! "

Hugh had disappeared long before she
came to the end of her speech. Being
tolerably familiar with all her haunts, he
knew pretty well where he would find
Clarice, and hurrying through the wilderness,
he soon caught sight of her light
skirts fluttering among the trees. In a few
minutes he was beside her, holding her two
hands in his, his glad young eyes feasting
right royally on the lovely face. The great
blue eyes that were lifted to his looked
troubled and anxious, and the sensitive lips
quivered slightly, even while they smiled.

 My lily love!" he exclaimed fondly;

 what, wandering here all alone with only
your silent thoughts for company ? "

'But my thoughts are sometimes louder
than other people's words," answered Clarice,
* and they say so much more."

*' You knew that I should come ! " said
Hugh, his high-spirited, very human nature
being utterly unable to answer a poetical
idea except in the plainest prose. All the
poetry in his nature was dumb; he could feel
hut not talk  while sometimes those who
can talk do not feel at all. '' That, like
a living loadstone, wherever you went you
would draw me after 1" he continued.

'eyes, I knew," she answered  ''I felt
you were coming ; my heart heard you, I
think, long before you came."

' Little darling ! " exclaimed the delighted
Hugh, gazing at her with loving admiration.
* How prettily you say things ! Do you
know I went home last night like a raving

maniac  kissed hands to the moon, shouted
to the winds and waves ! I wanted everything
to know how happy I was, and the
very stars seemed to wink down with a
million eyes, as though they knew all about
it, and quite agreed that the world held no
happier man than I! Oh, my love, my
very own I " he added, and a grave seriousness
came into his voice, " I can hardly
believe that it is all really true ! I fancy I
shall wake up and find it is all a dream,
and you have faded from my life like a mist
maiden ! Last night seems so long ago ! "

 Oh, Hugh ! dear Hugh ! " exclaimed
Clarice, lifting a pair of drowned blue eyes
to his, " I'm so sorry ; I wish there had been
no last night ! Can't you  don't you think
you can forget all about it ? "

< Forget all about it ! " echoed Hugh,
"I should rather think riot. Why, after
we've been together fifty years, it will be as

fresh in my memory as it is to-day. My
sweet, between you and me there will never
be anything forgotten ! " he added, with an
air of proud proprietorship.

Oh, but there must, Hugh, there must !
It was all a mistake, all that was said last
night. "When you have heard all that I have
to tell, you will see that it is no use  that it
is wrong, almost a crime, for us to love one
another ! And it is all my fault," she added,
her voice trembling with emotion.

My darling !" he exclaimed, startled by
her earnestness. 'what can you mean 
wrong ! crime ! and it is all your fault !
Why  but no, it is impossible ! you are not
one of that sort." He stood still and held
her before him, " Look me straight in the
eyes, Clarice. Tell me,j is there any one
else  any other man ? " His stern, threatening
look frightened her.

"Oh no ! no !  nobody but you ; there

never was  there never could be anybody
but 7/oic!" Her tone, her look, satisfied 
nay, more than satisfied him, as indeed it
would have satisfied any man.

*every well  then that's all right," he
exclaimed, with little premonitory squeeze.
** You're a little nervous darling  afraid of
the old gentleman perhaps ? Well, I'll soon
set things straight. I'll speak to him this
very day ! "

 Speak to father ! No, you mustn't do
that, Hugh," she said, decisively.

'' To-morrow, then ? "

'' No, not tomorrow  nor ever at all.
We must keep silent  keep our own secret
always, Hugh, between our two selves."

Hugh turned an amazed look on the
earnest face, so almost childish in the
innocent candour of its expression.

But would that be fair? " he observed.
'' It is best always to be straightforward, my

VOL. II. 13

Clarice. The dear old man trusts me, and
I could not come and go, carrying your
love about with me  and he not knowing.
Perhaps you think he'll object. Shouldn't
be surprised if he did  I should in his place.
But we must act on the square, my dear,
and give him a chance," added the practical
Hugh, magnanimously. " Don't be afraid ;
I'm an obstinate brute, and not fifty fathers,
with a hundred arms, moral, legal, or
physical, should take my darling from me ! "
He illustrated his powers of possession on
the spot, and imprisoned her as fast in his
arms as though he never meant to let her
go.

But suppose it had nothing to do with
the dear old dad, Hugh ! Suppose I took
myself away ? "

'That's all bosh!" said Hugh. A
woman can't give herself to a man one day
and take herself away the next ; it's against

nature. You gave yourself to me last night,
and I'll hold you fast'

They walked on under the overhanging
trees, with the sunlight glinting through
their leafy branches, and dancing in a
thousand fantastic shadows at their feet.
As the pathway narrowed they had to walk
single-file ; he went first, lifting aside the
troublesome branches for her to pass under
them. Presently they came out upon an
open space with mossy banks, gnarled
lichen covered tree trunks and low-growing
bushes sloping downwards towards the
shore. Here they sat down, their faces
turned seaward, with the green screen of
the woodland and background of purple
hills rising behind them ; the seagulls, driven
landward, wheeled in eddying circles above
then heads, and the air was stirred with
the last soft songs of the lingering summer
birds.

It was a lovely lonely solitude, just the
kind of place and scene that Clarice most
delighted in ; but she was not disposed to
delight in any outward scene just now. She
looked round without seeing or feeling anything
much, only fully awake to the one
fact  viz., that Hugh was beside her, her
hand close clasped in his, and  ah ! she knew,
without looking, exactly how his love-lighted
eyes were gazing on her downcast face. The
spell of the hour was upon her ; the one
beloved presence, the sun-god of her cloudy
life, was shining, wrapping her round as in a
glorified mantle, saturating her through and
through with a keenness of joy that was
akin to pain.

She sat silent as under a spell  and surely
love is the one true natural magic when it
reveals itself to a fresh, innocent young
spirit ! She was dumb, and felt as though
she would never care to speak again ; for the

words she spoke would break the spell
and disperse the sweet illusion for ever !
He was supremely happy too  he didn't
want to talk ; he knew he was not good
at talking : and to him it was a kind of
intoxicating delight, to hold her soft little
hand in his, to feel they were together, and
to know that through their veins there
circulated the same love-poison ; and above
all was the supreme feeling that to this one
most fair woman he was " the all in all ! "
Presently a few caressing words fell from his
lips.

 Ma vii, is not this lovely I Do you
know I should like to take yoa in my arms
this very minute, and float away with you
up among the clouds, and sail on and on
through all the worlds that are, and never
come back to this world again ! "

** Ah ! if we only could ! " she answered,
nestling closer to his side and looking up in

his face with frank, loving eyes. '' Hugh, I
know I'm selfish, wickedly selfish ; hut I'm
glad you love me ! glad you told me so ! and
I  hut there, you will never know what
you are to me ! But, Hugh," she added,
looking down, and playing nervously with
the buttons of his coat, " would it hurt you
very much to say good-bye ? "

'would it hurt me very much to have
my head cut off ? Yes, I think it would 
rather," he answered; " but I'm not likely to
try either experiment at present, thank you ! "

'' It would be best and wisest  indeed the
only thing that we can do : you will see that,
when I have told you " She hesitated.

*' Well, come, what have you got to say ?
Out with it  I hate beating about the bush.
But kiss me first, that I may have strength
to bear the fearful ordeal." Obedience to his
commands was shyly but promptly paid ;
then he settled himself comfortably with his

arms round her, and her head nesting on
his shoulder. Having arranged things to his
satisfaction, he gave the word of command :
' Now fire away ; my ears are stretched as
long as asses'. Behold, I listen ! "

It is like killing myself," she murmured,
in a broken voice ; '' I can't bear to tell
you "

"Then don't," interrupted he, philosophically
; " I'm not curious, and I only listen to
please you."

"Did you ever hear, did anybody ever
hint to you, that I was not quite like other
people  a little queer sometimes ? " A
strange, furtive look came into her eyes as
she glanced up at him.

Bless my soul, I always knew that ! "
exclaimed Hugh, heartily. " I didn't want
anybody to tell me ; I found that out for
myself. My little queen ! thank God, you
are not ' like other people.' "

*But you don't understand," she added,
desperately. ' I am not always as you have
seen me: I have such terrible thoughts 
am haunted with a dread of things that
I shudder to speak of. And oh ! Hugh !
Hugh ! " she cried out, with an anguish in
her voice, I think sometimes I'm a Httle
mad''

' That is foolish, Clarice," he answered,
gravely; ' you shouldn't give way to such
ideas. It is wrong; you don't know where
they may lead you. I heard of a woman
once who fancied she was a teapot, and 
well she ended her days in a lunatic asylum
at last."

' That is where I began ! " she exclaimed,
now grown ghastly pale, with all the light
and love and sweetness dying out of her
face.  That is where I began," she
repeated in a dead, cold whisper  * and I
dread lest I end there ! I lived among

them ! Ah, though I was hut a little child
I remember it ! Everything was upside
down. At night there were horrible screams.
Ah, I hear them now ! and I  I am afraid !
Sometimes I have such terrible thoughts,
am hunted by such hideous, shapeless fears,
that I want to creep away under the earth
and hide away from myself. I can't tell
you  words are such poor things  but a
thousand wouldn't tell you what I feel in a
single minute ! You see I was horn there I "
she added, in the same freezing whisper,
which showed where lay the keynote of all
she felt, all she suffered. " Though my body
is away, and though I, this bodily me, walk
and talk, and eat and drink, like the rest of
the world, sometimes I think. What if they
have kept my soul there  if they sometimes
send it after me? And then I  oh ! why
will you make me say it ? Don't you understand
now, that love, and all sweet things

that make life sweet to live, are not forme
I "

'I don't understand anything of the
kind," answered Hugh, who had listened to
her very gravely. " It seems to me that
love will be the best cure for your malachi
imaginaire, I see how it is," he added,
frowning, and feeling for the moment angry
with all her surroundings ; " you have been
neglected, and allowed to brood on these
things too much, till you have created a
bugbear and are frightening yourself to
death ! The fact of being born in a madhouse
doesn't make you mad ! Of course it
is not pleasant  naturally you would rather
have been born somewhere else ; but, as a
mere matter of fact, it doesn't affect you at
all. Why, if you'd been born in a stable do
you think you'd have been a horse ? "

The idea was not original, but it just
occurred to him, and served to illustrate

his meaning. The healthy, practical turn
of his mind seemed in a way to affect heron
the smiace, for the moment at least 
as a fresh breath of pme air will bring back
the colour to the worn, wan cheek, and give
it for a moment the glow of health. He
talked to her reasonably, most lovingly, and
there was a good stratum of common sense
in all he said. He battled with and fought
down the fiends of her delusive imagination,
and, like a mental Jack the Giant Killer, he
conquered, and his enemies  her enemies 
lay dead at their feet ; and for the time
at least she came out of the land of shadows
wherein she was so often lost, and stood on
a level beside him in the fresh, wholesome
air.

They wandered down to the shore and
strolled on their way homeward by the sundown
sea, while all the land was gorgeously
aglow in the golden sunset. They watched

the bright colours fade and mingle one with
another till they settled into a solemn
sombre grey, and sent the twilight shadows
creeping earthward, shrouding all things
with a tender mystery ; and through all the
surrounding darkness the girl's spirit seemed
to rise up and see the light.

Hugh inspired her with something of his.
own happy, hopeful spirit; she no longer
looked as '' through a glass darkly," but saw
with a brighter, clearer vision. A part of
his life seemed to enter into hers as he
cheered and encouraged her, exorcising the
demon despair, and setting in his place the
angel of hope and promise. After all, the
things she most dreaded were only *' might
he's ! " and with Hugh by her side  Hugh
always with her, his precious love clasped
to her heart of hearts  what ugly evil
thought or fear could ever come near her ?

As they drew near the house, they met

Mr. Fleming and Miriam coming in search
of them. One at least was surprised to find
them together.

By a lucky chance," exclaimed Hugh,
 I met Miss Lemaire in the wood, and
coaxed her to take a stroll hy the sea. I
hope you've not been alarmed ? "

'No," he answered, '' Clarice enjoys a
lonely ramble ; she is used to come and goas
she pleases, but  I am always a little
anxious."

' Good night, my sweet ! " were Hugh's
whispered words as he parted from her sometime
afterwards. '' Be brave and strong ! No
more dark thoughts. Eemember you hold my
heart in your hand  if you huit yourself you
hurt me more. Shall you tell him to-night? "
he whispered, as, with his arms round her,
he gave her the ' good night " kiss.

** No ! no ! " she exclaimed, shrinking fi'om
the responsibility.

' Then I shall be here to speak to him
tomorrow."

A few more blissful, foolish moments, and
they said * Good night " indeed.

She went to bed full of bright dreams of
tomorrow : but who shall tell what tomorrow
may bring forth ?

UNEXPECTED SUMMONS.

Avarice sat at her toilet-table the next
morning, looking earnestly on her own
reflection in the glass. It was not often
she indulged in this feminine weakness 
though it is not exclusively feminine either,
for I have seen elderly men gaze upon their
own elderly faces, twinkle their moustaches,
caress their grey beards, and arrange their
scanty gi-ey locks, with the self-satisfaction 
to use the mildest term  of a girl in her
teens preparing for her first ball.

Clarice did not care to look at herself asa
rule, for sometimes something she dreaded

seemed to look back at lier out of her own
eyes, that made her shiver and turn away ;
but now she regarded herself with some
curiosity, wondering and trying to see what
his eyes saw in her face. But it was no
use ; she could not tell  her own face swam
in the mirror for a moment, and then faded
from it, and his brown eyes smiled back
at her. Thus her effort at self-inspection
was a failure. Others might have found a
wondrous charm in the picture the mirror
presented : a fair - complexioned woman,
with a mass of golden hair tumbling in
billowy waves about her shoulders and
rippling daintily over the low white brow,
forming a glorious setting to the lovely face
how eloquent with its first love's sweet
mystery. It seemed as though some holy
fire had been kindled within her, and
rushed through her veins and set every
fibre quivering, and transfigured her with a

strange new beauty. Her face was aglow
T\'itli a glad, happy light. But she found
no pleasure in the contemplation of her
own charms ; she turned away, and looked
from the window upon the scene they two
had trod together last night.

It was a lovely day, and the wild vide
landscape was well worth looking at. The
sky had shed a few rainy tears during the
night, and they fell on shrubs and grass
aud flowers, sparkling like diamonds, till the
sun rose lazily, as though he didn't care to
be awakened so early, and thirstily drank
them up; and the green earth looked all the
fresher and greener for the showery visitation.
The tall trees shook out and
rustled their leafy branches, as if preening
themselves for the great day's beauty; the
lovely flowers opened their meek eyes shyly,
sighing their sweet fragrance to the wandering
breeze, while the statelier blooms

VOL. n. 14

opened their passionate hearts, fold by fold,
to be kissed by every wind that blew ; and
the sea, the grand old sea that had lain
shrouded and silent through the night,
threw off her grey veil, burst into rippling
waves of laughter, tossing her foamy arms
aloft, and was already coquetting with the
morning sun.

All this Clarice saw and felt keenly ; she
had never looked upon the familiar landscape
with such eyes as she looked upon it
now ; every feature seemed new and strange
to her, as though glorified by the breath of
a new divinity. So true it is that we make
for ourselves the world around us, and see
with the eyes of the spirit rather than the
eyes of the flesh. That which to one is
but a tame, commonplace prospect, to
another, flooded with the sunshine of hope
and memory, is clothed with supreme
loveliness. Her whole nature seemed to

be in unison with the world around ; she
felt that she was a part of it, as it was a
part of her. Her pulse throbbed with the
throbbing of the great sea, and her heart,
overflowing with its new-born joy, seemed
full, and swooning with the perfume of the
flowers.

As she progressed slowly with her toilette,
the very room seemed alive with airy
tongues that spoke to her spirit's ear ina
language that words would be inadequate
to translate. Mere words are poor things
when needed for the illustration of deep
feeling,, whether of joy or sorrow; everybody
has felt that who has ever felt at all.

However, we must come down from the
most beatified condition of bliss to face this
everyday and commonplace world, that still
keeps the even tenour of its ways. Joy-bells
may be ringing or a funeral dirge be tolled,
hearts may be swelling with joy or breaking

with sorrow, empires may fall and kings lie
low in the dust, starving souls may shrivel
in their miserable mortal frames  but the
body has a digestion : it gets hungry ; as a
mere matter of mechanism it gets vulgarly
hungry, and it must be fed ; feeding time
for the whole human race comes round as
regularly as the sun rises and sets. So it
happened that Clarice was recalled to take
up the burden of everyday life by the sound
of Miriam's voice at the door, telling her
that the breakfast-bell had rung ten
minutes ago. Then she threw open the
door, and stood upon the threshold like a
radiant vision 

** In glory of gold and glory of hair,
And glory of glorious face most fair."

Miriam looked in her face, kissed her, and
knetv  and was glad. She had a generally
haunting idea that her "dear Clarice" lay

near to Jack Swayne's hearse ; the idea was
not a pleasant one, as it kept her, Miriam,
beyond the pale of possibilities  for she
loved Jack herself very dearly, very devoutly,
though in a practical way. It was
love, all the same, though of a different
quality, and blended with thoughts of
bonnets and butcher's bills, and other
practical necessities of this life, which
romantic folk are in the habit of ignoring.
Of course Jack's handsome person occupied
the foreground  the rest were grouped round
as mere accessories, but they were necessary
to make the whole complete.

People have different ways of loving :
some are of the earth  earthy ; some are
lifted to a higher atmosphere altogether,
and reach nearer heaven, where love is
spiritual and complete. These combine
the ideal with the real, and revel in the
delicate refinements of the affections ; they

feel more keenly and enjoy more. But one
can't blame the earthen pitcher for not
being Dresden china ; and, after all, a good
commonplace, everyday affection, warranted
to wear well, satisfies most men. Fortunately
in the world of the affections each
can ally himself  or at least propose the
alliance  to that nature which suits his
own ; can choose his counterpart or his
opposite, as he pleases. Metaphorically
speaking, one man '' embarks his soul ina
kiss," and revels in an atmosphere of
sentiment and emotional pleasures ; another
will find his bliss in a well-cooked chop or
savoury stew : and who shall say which is
wisest and best ? Each judges for himself.
Well, Clarice and Miriam, each with her
heart closed upon her own secret, joined
Mr. Fleming at the breakfast table. They
found him deeply occupied with his morning's
mail  so much so that he scarcely

noticed their entrance ; lie merely glanced
up and mechanically wished them " good
morning," then with bent brows returned
to his correspondence. Clarice asked no
questions, made no remark ; with servants
in the room and a guest at table, it was no
time for confidential conversation. Clarice
felt vexed that anything should happen to
worry him on this day when ' Hugh was
coming ! ' ' When she handed him his
coffee he laid aside his letters, and entered
into the general chit-chat which enlivened
their morning meal. As soon as it was
over, and nobody seemed inclined to linger,
they rose up and went their several ways.
Clarice followed Mr. Fleming to his study.

'what is it, father dear?" she asked;
*' something troubles you, I know."

** Well, yes, my dear child," he answered,
'' I am rather worried; I have received some
unpleasant communication from my Paris

bankers ; they are in something of a dilemma,
and don't seem inclined to act
without first having a personal consultation
and instruction from me. I must run over
at once and see exactly how matters stand.
Of course I am the only person who can
take the responsibility of acting. Just give
me Bradshaw, my dear. I think I may
manage to catch the tidal train for Bologna
and Paris to-night. Let me see  yes," he
added, running his eye down the complicated
page, *' train leaves Penally at 11
o'clock, reaches Paddington at 8.10. Tidal
train starts at 9.25 to-night, so I can
catch it without any hurry ; there is still an
hour before we need start. You will go
with me, Clary ? the trip will do you good."

"J go with you to-day ! " exclaimed
Clarice, blankly. ' Oh, darling dad, I cannot
 it is impossible ! "

'' Why ? why impossible ? " he exclaimed.

surprised at her hesitation ; for as a rule she
would not let him stir without her, and
sometimes insisted on accompanying him at
a great inconvenience. '' There, run away,
dress, and come along ; we shall only be
away a few days, and Katrina can put up
the little you want in five minutes."

*but, dad dear, I could not possibly go
to-day  and I am sorry you've got to go.
I  I wanted to talk to you about something."


"Well, my dear, if you lesllj luorit go,
you must bottle up that something till 1
come back ; I dare say it will keep without
spoiling. But I really don't see why you
can't go with me  then we could discuss
the ' something ' as we go along." Clarice
was struck with a bright thought.

'why, there is Miriam, Papa; you have
forgotten her. I could not possibly turn
her out of doors, could I ? "

'' Humph  well, perhaps not," he admitted
reluctantly ; '' but there, we mustn't
stand chattering  we're wasting time. I
must post up my papers. Eun away, put
on your hat, and drive with me to the
station."

His masculine preparation did not take
long to make ; he was soon equipped in
light marching order, a valise and an
umbrella answering all his requirements.

The two girls drove with him to the
station ; they were in plenty of time, and
took a few turns up and down the platform
before the train came up.

 God bless you, my little girl ! " he exclaimed,
at parting; '' I can't bear to leave
you. Take care of yourselves and be happy.
I wish I could send Jack down to look
after you, but he can't leave London just

yet."

As the train steamed off  they watched

it till it was out of sight  Clarice's heart
sank ; for the moment she wished she had
thrown everything else aside and gone with
him.

They stopped at the Rectory on their
way homeward to have a chat with Mrs.
Spencer. She was sm-prised to see them at
that unusual hour, but they explained that
they had been seeing Mr. Fleming off by
the train, and were going to have the Manor
House all to themselves for the next few
days. She at once saw an opportunity for
improving their minds, and giving them the
benefit of her society for a longer period
than was usual during their social visiting.
She wanted to visit some poor people in
their neighbourhood, she said ; so she would
kill two birds with one stone, and spend a
nice long day at the Manor House. "Pity
we can't have a Dorcas meeting, my dear
Clarice," she exclaimed, always ready to

improve a situation, ' but there's no time to
arrange that; and, my dear, if it will not
inconvenience you very much, the Rector
shall fetch me home in the evening. I will
not trouble you for the carriage," she added,
magnanimously, 'he shall drive over in the
pony chaise ; and it will be a capital opportunity
for him to see your dear father's
improvement in the way of warming the
conservatory, which I believe is on an entirely
new principle."

Thus cornered, the exigencies of civilization
compelled Clarice to play the hypocrite
in a small way. She was obliged to seem
gratified by the proposal, and to suggest
that the Rector should dine at the Manor
House; she could not well have done otherwise.


Mrs. Spencer received the invitation with
such evident satisfaction, that the end of
her nose seemed to sharpen and grow redder

than ever as by rapid calculation she set
"one day off the house hill." She kept
the guns waiting while she rushed to the
kitchen to counter order her meagre instructions,
to give an extra screw to the larder
and a squeeze to the cook's conscience ;
then dashed into the Eector's study, where
he was busily engaged writing a sermon on
extra vigorous principles. He felt that his
Hock failed to realize in its full strength the
absolute personality of the devil, so he tried
to paint him in all the horrors of brimstone
and fire, and meant to make him the figurehead
of his next Sunday's discourse. If that
didn't frighten people into the right way,
nothing would ! To his thinking, fear, not
love, was the great virtue conductor, and he
did his best to cultivate that to its highest
extent. He did not take his eight hundred
a year for nothing : he did his best for his
flock, and gave them all the light he

possessed  it might be but a farthing
rushhght ; but such as it was he gave it
liberally. He was so dazed with his own
eloquence, that he could hardly receive the
fact that he was expected to dine at the
Manor House at seven o'clock that evening.
Mrs. Spencer was soon ready, and the
trio started on their way to the Manor
House, conversing in the most lively
fashion. She always prided herself on her
agreeability, and was even more agreeable
than usual. But Clarice, who had looked
forward to a very different manner of
passing the day, could scarcely hide her
chagrin ; and when Hugh came in later in
the day, plumed with hope and brimming
over with happy expectations, and found
his female parent in full and proud possession
of the field where he had hoped to
exercise the whole army of his affections,
and to carry on operations during the whole

day within the Emits of the love lines, his
feelings may be better imagined than described.
I should be sorry to translate his
inward anathemas into plain phrases, but
he bore his disappointment bravely, and
made himself the life of the party; and the
day passed more pleasantly than perhaps,
under the circumstances, could have been
expected.

They strolled about the gardens and
through the greenhouses, Mrs. Spencer
begging "just a little cutting " from everything
she saw. She contrived to make
prying excursions to sundry nooks and
corners of the old Manor House ; her
curiosity burrowed into all kinds of forbidden
places ; she threw her fishing-line
freely on all sides, and fished persistently 
but caught nothing ; and actually with
great cunning fished Katrina, with whom
she held quite a long suggestive conversation

 but she might as well have fished a
a marble monument ! However, on the
whole she had a very pleasant time, and
though she deplored the extravagance of
the diner table, she enjoyed it nevertheless.
It is quite a different matter to
indulge at another person's expense than atour
own. She openly regretted that she
could not take up her quarters at the Manor
House during Mr. Fleming's absence, that
Clarice might have the benefit of her
superintending genius; but as that was
impossible, she promised to spend a great
portion of every day there. They drove
back to the Eectory soon after dinner ; but
Hugh stayed on for an hour to hear all the
news from Clarice's lips, and take his
reward for his long day's abstinence. It
was a dull, dreary evening; there was neither
moon nor stars, and a drizzling rain was
falling, but they cared nothing for the

weather, and might have echoed the

words 

On all this dusk and gloom and light
The moon may rise or not to-night ;
But in my soul she rises bright."

In consideration of the proprieties of life,
Hugh left much earlier than he would
have done if the master of the house had
been at home. Clarice had carried the
Bradshaw about all day, and followed Mr.
Fleming through all the stages of his
journey.

'' To-morrow at eleven o'clock he will
reach Paris' she said. "The dear old dad!
he will be travelling while we are asleep in
our beds."

'' You girls don't mind being alone in the
house ? You are sure you don't feel timid
or nervous ? " observed Hugh.

I'm never nervous," exclaimed Miriam,
virtuously: '*I always feel we are in the
hands of Providence."

VOL. II. 15

*' But Providence does sometimes allow
the ' burglar to go a bungling " suggested
Hugh. i'll mount guard outside if you
like, and patrol with the vigilance of a
sentinel all night."

Clarice laughed.

 I'm never nervous, either," she answered;
"besides, I shall take father's der-finger
upstairs with me, and any marauder
would have a warm reception."

But no marauder did come ; the night
passed peacefully, and the morning broke
clear, cool, and bright. Hugh, determined
not to be baulked that day, stole a march
upon his parent, made his appearance on
the scene quite early, and the trio improvised
a picnic in the woods. Of course
if Clarice had been alone this could not
have been; but Miriam, his own sister,
being on a visit there, made all the difference.


Mrs. Spencer timed her visit that day so
that she might arrive just about the hour
for Imicheon, with an appetite sharpened
by the drive, and heightened by a meagre
breakfast ; for it did not do to have too
many good things on one day, so in anticipation
of a dainty luncheon she had cut off
her customary egg ! She drove up to the
house aglow with exercise and hunger. Lo !
the birds had flown ; nobody knew whither
they had gone, but they were not expected
home till the day was over ! Here was a
blow ! But there was no help for it ; disappointed
and crestfallen she was compelled
to return home and revenge herself on an
empty larder !

With the young people all went well :
they lounged through the sunshiny hours
in a paradise of their own making; then
they spread their luncheon under the trees,
and laughed and chatted in a happy, fooHsh

way. As for Clarice, she had never dreamed
that such golden moments could gather on
the sands of time ! Hugh's fresh, breezy
voice invigorated and acted upon her like a
tonic ; his smile sent sunshine to her heart
and made her strong and glad ! To-day
was to-day; she had no thought of tomorrow,
or of any tomorrow that mighfc
follow it  eternity was lost in the not !
She had not had enough experience of life
to have any foreshadowing, or to realize
the fact that, so sure as night follows day,
our brightest moments are flying fast to
join the past days and hours that have died
in mist and pain; that joy, being briefer
than sorrow, has swifter wings, flies faster,
and  is gone !

For young, happy souls, '' sufficient for
the day is the evil thereof." This day
closed as happily as it began. It was one
to be marked with a white stone !  there

are none too many such in auy lives. Some
look back over a dead level plain, and find
the black or the grey stones outnumber the
white by a hundred to one !

The next morning the Manor House was
thrown into a state of confusion by a bombshell
falling on the breakfast-table in the
shape of a telegram, which ran thus 

Continental Hotel, Paris.

 Messrs. Hewett and Co. to Miss Lenitive.

** Mr. Fleming taken seriously ill. Come at once.
Messenger will meet you at Paddington Station. Take
11 o'clock train."

Here was a blow to poor Clarice ! Love,
hope, joy  all was forgotten, merged in the
one terrible thought that he was struck
down, perhaps dying, and she so many
hundred miles away ! She reproached herself
bitterly for not having gone with him.
In a state of utter distraction she flew
to Katrina, and told her with sobs and

hysterical emotion what had happened.
Katrina realized the necessity for prompt
action, and proceeded with trembling hands
to int together such things as were necessary
for the journey. Clarice would have
flung on her hat and dashed off at once ;
but Miriam, who always had her wits about
her, and was not to be overcome by another's
distress (nor indeed overmuch by her own,
for if she had been at her last gasp she
would have given instructions to the undertaker,
and been special in her orders for the
fashion of her shroud ! ) came to the rescue
now.

' It is no use going before the train
starts," she exclaimed, practically, ' and
that will not be for another hour yet. Come,
Clarice dear, you must take a little coffee.
You know you want to be a help and comfort
to him ; if you don't take care of yourself
you will be neither. If you go on like this

you will be exhausted when you get there,
and I should not wonder if the doctors
forbid your seeing him at all."

Clarice quite realized the truth of Miriam's
position, and pulled herself together as well
as she could. She stifled her sobs and slowly
dried her tears ; but it is difficult, when weare
shaken by a storm of deep feeling, sorrow
blind and heart-aching, to lift ourselves to
the level of good, simple common sense. Still
Clarice grew calm with the necessity for
calmness. She thought of Jack, and felt
that he ought to be communicated with.
She was too agitated to write ; so she sent
the telegram to him at once  that would
tell him all that he would need to know.

She and Katrina started by the same
train which had carried Mr. Fleming away
two days before.

CHECKMATE !

rpHEY reached Paddington late in the
-- evening. The station lamps were
lighted, and one huge globe of electric light
shone down like a full moon, throwing a white
radiance everywhere. It seemed to be the
busiest hour of the day, so great was the stir
and bustle on all sides. An excursion train
had just come in, and was emptying its.
animated freight upon the platform ; porters
were trundling their laden trucks, and
'' b'y'r-leave " seemed echoing through
the air like the song of the mocking-bird.
Long serpentine trains came slowly

creeping in and out ; engines whistled and
snorted, filling the air with discordant
shrieks and yells, as though a score of
demons had been let loose from below and
were trying to find their way back again ;
while the grimed faces of firemen and
stokers glowed in the smoke and flame of
the engine fire  making in all a weird, wild
scene to unaccustomed eyes.

The many coloured lights, the noise, the
babel of tongues, and moving masses of
people, were all to Katrina brain-bewildering.
The question suggested itself, ' Who
was to meet them ? and how could they
possibly be recognized amid such a moving
multitude?" Clarice, also anxious, hesitated
before descending to the platform, and
stood in the doorway gazing eagerly round.
Katrina no less eagerly looked over her
shoulder. Meanwhile a dignified official
was pacing leisurely down the platform

beside the carriages, and glancing into each
compartment with the brief inquiry,  ' Anyone
named Lemaire here ? " Clarice caught
the sound of her own name ; Katrina, behind
her, being for the moment too bewildered
by the confusion of sounds to distinguish
anything distinctly.

' Here ! here ! " exclaimed Clarice, responding
quickly. " Quick, Katrina! here's
somebody for us." The words were flung
over her shoulder for Katrina to catch them,
as Clarice sprang out of the carriage.
Before she had time to think or look round,
she felt her arm lightly seized, and a soft
voice said in a low tone 

 Miss Lemaire, I believe ? This way,
please ; my servant will attend to your
maid."

Clarice, with momentary hesitation,
glanced back, and saw Katrina, loaded with
hand baggage, being assisted by some one

as she cautiously descended from the
carriage. '' So it was all right so far ; " in
another moment she was being guided hy
her escort through the crowd, towards a
carriage that waited at one of the station
doors. As soon as Katrina found herself
safely standing on the platform, she glanced
to where Clarice had stood a moment before.
But she was no longer there I she had
disappeared as if by magic. Katrina glanced
round in some alarm in search of her ; soon
her dazed eyes caught sight of the girlish
figure of her young mistress, already some
distance off among the crowd, while beside
her, and towering above her, was the grey
head and smiling face of M. Lemaire.

Although a conflicting mass of people
surged between them, she ]3lo iiito
their midst with a smothered exclamation,
and tried to fight her way through to reach
those who were fast disappearing in the

distance ; but the more she struggled the
more her progress was impeded. At last, in
desperation, she appealed to those around
her. She might as well have appealed to
a tombstone.

*' For God's sake ! stop him ! stop her ! "
she exclaimed, breathlessly. But who cares
for a stranger's distress ? However kindly-disposed
individuals may be, a crowd is
always cruel. Some laughed, some regarded
her with cool sang froid and passed on ;
others eyed her curiously. Everybody was
indifferent  nobody cared ! One wag, with
a broad grin at grey hairs in distress, called
out 

*cease her! Stop her! Don't you seethe
old lady's after the steam-engine ! "

 Stop him!" she exclaimed, as the
policeman came up.

' Stop who, ma'am  have you lost anything
? "

*' No, no ! " she exclaimed, the official inquiry
reducing her agitated nerves to a state
of order. After all, what could she say ?
how explain her dilemma ? If she did, how
could a stranger comprehend it ? Besides,
what right had she to expose family secrets
outside the family circle ? She would do
nothing on her own responsibility. She
must wait and think. The officer saw her
agitation, and did not increase it by observation
or remarks, but waited patiently for
her to speak  which she did as soon as
she had sufficiently collected her thoughts.
** No," she said, 'she had lost nothing;
only she had just come up hom the country
and had missed her young lady."

Oh ! if that's all I advise you to go into'
the waiting-room ; I dare say she'll come
back to look for you." He showed her to
the waiting-room and there left her, adding,
*' I'll go and have a look round ; if she's as

anxious to find you as you are to find hei', I
shall meet her looking about somewhere
outside." He lounged off and left her to
herself. She pondered for awhile. What
had she better do ? She knew the name of
the firm of Mr. Fleming's solicitors, but it
was too late to expect to find them  their
office would be closed. Then there was
Mr. Swayne ; she did not know whether he
was in London : if he were, of course he was
the fittest person to be communicated with.
She racked her brain trying to remember
his address. She had often put letters in
the postbag for him, but on the spur of the
moment could not remember the direction.
She knew it was the name of an animal 
'fox Court,"  Lamb Street." No. She
had it at last  sit was ' Hare Court ! " Now
where was Hare Court ?

She got into a cab  that suggested itself
as the wisest thing to do, and directed the

man to drive to Hare Court as quickly as
possible. In the course of a few minutes lie
stopped at the quaint little gateway in Fleet
Street, and here he put her down, telling
her to '' apply to the gentleman with the
gold-laced hatband for any information she
wanted." To the gold-laced hatband she
accordingly applied, and learned from him
all she wished to know. " Yes, Mr. Swayne
was in London, and occupied his rooms in
Hare Court. He directed her most courteously
where she was to go. He could
not leave his post, or he would show her the
way, but she could not possibly miss it  just
past the church on the right-hand side."

As she turned out of Fleet Street, with its
glare of light and tramping multitudes, into
the silent solitude of the Temple, she felt
oppressed, as though she was entering a new
world. There was no one about, and the tall,
grim buildings were silhouetted against the

dark-blue sky ; the tread of her own footsteps
jarred upon her ears. It was so quiet, so
lonely, she could hardly believe she was so
near the living world of men and women.
The sound of the roaring tide of life, that
was streaming on like the rush of a mighty
river, followed her, like the smothered roll
of a muffled drum broken into a thousand
ghostly echoes. The old church, with its
many-centuries monuments of the heroic
dead, loomed gloomily on her left ; and on her
right, in a kind of quadrangle, were a few
tall, dingy-looking, dimly-lighted buildings.
She mounted the steps of one, and running
her eye down the list of names found the
one she wanted  '' Mr. Swayne, first
floor."

It was all plain-sailing now ! With alacrity
she ascended the narrow worm-eaten stairs,
and on the first door to the right she again
read his name, painted in big white ugly

letters on a massive old door, so heavy,
dark, and frowning, it looked as though it
would never allow itself to be opened. But
it was opened, and that speedily, in answer
to her modest tinkle of a tiny bell ; and
Jack, with a smart gold-tasselled smoking-cap
on his head, and a flowing dressing-gown
clothing his stalwart limbs, a meerschaum
between his lips, stood in the
aperture. He stared at Katrina blankly
for a moment. He never allowed himself
to be taken by surprise. ' He never was
surprised at anything," he used to say 
and so far had never been thrown off his
balance in his life !

'' Hullo, Katrina ! " he exclaimed, genially,
*' what's up ? Something, or you
wouldn't be here."

* You  you haven't got Miss Clarice's
letter yet?" rem-ned Katrina, scarcely
knowing where to begin.

VOL. n. 16

' No ; haven't heard from her for a week.
Why?"

*yon know your uncle went to Paris
three clays ago ? ' '

'* The devil he did ! " ejaculated Jack.
* I knew nothing about it. Go on."

' Things went on very pleasantly at
first," she continued, ' as Miss Miriam is
staying at the Manor House, and Mr.
Hugh came every day and kept the young
ladies lively  he's just the sort of gentleman

to do that. And  this morning Oh

dear ! how agitated I am ; I hardly know
how to go on."

'' Well, fire away ! " exclaimed Jack
impatiently; 'you haven't come all this
way to expatiate on Mr. Hugh's powers of
keeping the young ladies lively.' "

''I am firing away,' sir, as fast as I
can," she answered, in accents of mild
reproach. * I always think it's right to

begin at the beginning of things if you
want to be thoroughly understood. If I
was to tell you that Miss Clarice had gone
off with M. Lemaire, you'd want to know
all about it."

In the name of seven devils ! what do
you mean?" thundered Jack, and down
went the meerschaum with a crash.

That's just where I was coming to.
This morning Miss Clarice got a telegram
saying that Mr. Fleming was seriously ill
at some hotel in Paris, and she was to
come directly, and a messenger would meet
her at Paddington railway station "

"Who sent the telegram? Was my
uncle able to do it ? "

I think the telegram was from the
bankers," she answered; 'rand we came off
by the first train this morning. At the
station there were such crowds, such confusion,
that while I was getting the things

together I lost Miss Clarice, and when I
looked round I saw her a long way off,
being hurried through the crowd by M.
Lemaire. So she's lost, sir !  he has got
her !  and what are we to do ? "

Having got to the end of her story, the
old woman relapsed into a state of agitation,
and began rocking herself to and fro and
moaning fragmentary snatches of distress.

Jack glared at her angrily, but he
answered coolly and tersely 

We must find her, of course, and get
her out of his clutches as soon as we can.
There, it's no use making a hullabaloo  we
want cool heads." He glanced at the clock
as though he was expecting somebody, and
paced up and down the room like a caged
animal that couldn't get out. ' What the
devil is Wagstaff about?" he exclaimed,
grinding his teeth impatiently. Then he
flung the outer door wide open and listened;

presently lie heard a step he knew
upon the stairs, and in another moment the
expected Wagstaff stood on the landing.
Jack hurried forward to meet him.

** Come in, Wagstaff, come in ! Well,
what news ? You've got some, I know."

'' Eight you are, sir," replied Wagstaff,
nodding his head. ''I have got a scrap or
two, and you shall have it right off. I told
you yesterday that he''  jerking his head
as though Jack must understand who
was meant hy the emphatic he  '' had
taken two berths aboard the Anchor Line
steamer, Citie of Bo vie'"

* And I thought we should be rid of him,
and you would have ended your labours,"
observed Jack. 'well, go on."

'* Exactly, that's so, sir  except that our
labours are never ended. When we finish
at one end, we begin at the other. But
that's neither here nor there. To-day he's

been very busy writing letters and doing a
little shopping in the tailoring line. This
evening lie went to the Paddington station
and waited until the express train from
Cornwall arrived. There he met a handsome
young lady "

** So far I know," exclaimed Jack, eagerly.
 You did not lose sight of him ? "

'Not likely," replied Wagstaff, receiving
the insinuation of such a possibility as a
professional insult. * They got into a carriage
 I followed in a hansom ; they drove
to the Blackfriars Hotel, and there they are
now. They sail for America tomorrow on
the City of Bonze''

' Sail for America tomorrow, do they ? "
exclaimed Jack, rubbing his hands gleefully
together. '' I rather think not ! I mean to
take a hand at that little game. Katrina,
make yourself at home. I'm off ! "
** You'll allow me to go with you, sir? "

said Wagtail ; "in case of an' little
difficulty, you know, I might be useful."

Jack accepted his offered companionship,
and the two left Hare Court together.

And how did it fare with Clarice ? She
had hardly time to think, let alone to speak,
as she was being hurried through the crowd.
When she found herself seated in the carriage
with her venerable escort beside her,
she glanced anxiously in his face and inquired


My father  when did you leave him?
Is he better?"

'much better," he replied, frankly. "A
change for the better took place within an
hour after the telegram had been sent off,
and when I left him all cause for serious
anxiety was over. ' '

"Thank God!" she exclaimed, with a
sigh of relief, as she leaned back in the
carriage more content. Conversation could

not very well be carried on as they rattled
through the streets. Occasionally she
glanced at the face of her father's messenger,
momentarily lighted np as they
flashed past the lamp-posts.

* Are yon sure we are in time for the
boat? " she inquired, presently.

*' Ay, the boat ! Well, there is a little
difficulty about that," he answered ; ' but
we shall see."

'' What difficulty ? " she inquired. '' Oh !
I hope nothing will prevent our crossing
to-night ! We calculated we should be
quite in time for the train."

* But, my dear young lady, things don't
always fall out according to our calculations,"
he answered; ' and as your train
happened to be late in arriving, and the
tidal train starts nearly an hour earlier tonight,
I am afraid you have just managed
to  miss it."

This communication threw Clarice into a
great state of agitation and distress, and he
did his hest to calm her.

'' Remember, your father trusted you in
my charge, and I have already made all
arrangements for you to be properly cared
for. The delay is but for a few hours, as
we start quite early in the morning."

*' You are very kind," murmured Clarice,
disconsolately. 'And where is Katrina ?
Does she know? "

'' No doubt my servant will have informed
her by this time."

The carriage now stopped at a hotel ina
busy, bustling thoroughfare. He was
most attentive, and assisted her to alight,
and escorted her to a cosy room on the first
floor, which had evidently been prepared for
her reception. The gas was lighted, and a
bright wood-fire was blazing in the grate 
for it was a damp evening, and the fire was

pleasant to look at, if not necessary for
warmth. Everything had been clone for
her comfort ; she could not but feel
grateful, and she tried to look gratefully
appreciative : that was a more difficult task,
for it was very sad and lonely to be there ina
strange place, in a stranger's care, with no
familiar face near, no one to speak to. He
assisted her in taking off her things, wheeled
an easy-chair to the fireside.

* Thank you, I would rather look out
of the window," she said; 'rand will you
please send Katrina to mo as soon as she
comes? "

Of course he promised to do so, and
showed her a little adjoining room in which
she was to sleep.

** And I hope you will sleep well, for you
will have to be up early in the morning."


'* I shall not try to sleep  I only want

the morning to come. Do you think it will
he long before my maid arrives ?"

''Ah in good time; and I do hope, as
your father's friend, you will rest content
in my hands, and for the time being regard
me as a father indeed. Would that be
very difficult ? " And he laid his hand with
fatherly tenderness upon her head.

' Oh no ! no ! " she exclaimed ; ' you are
very good to me, but I am so  so disappointed
! "

She turned her head away, for a lump
was rising in her throat, and the tears
would gather in her eyes. For the momenta
little dramatic scene presented itself to
his mind. He was half inclined to clasp her
to his heart  at least to his waistcoat 
and claim her 'this darling  his long-lost
child I " at once. But the impulse of the
moment passed. It would not be wise to
add still greater agitation to her mind in

its present state. He would bide his time,
and not risk all until she was more
thoroughly isolated from old associations.
He did not know how far she had been
informed of her own history, nor in what
light she had been taught to regard him.
He must try to find out ; but there was
time enough for that.

He had mentally arranged his course of
action, and had little doubt of the result.
He would be able to manage her according
to his desires ; he had known how to cow
and control stronger natures than hers. If
she should prove troublesome  well, he had
only to lament that his unfortunate child 
ahem ! nobody would take the trouble to
interfere with him.

He ordered some light refreshment to be
sent up ; and, just to satisfy him, she took a
few spoonfuls. Then he left her looking
out upon the lighted streets, while he went

to finish up his little preparations for the
morning. He would look in again, he said,
in about an hour ; that would be before she
retired to rest.

Left alone, she felt very sad and in some
perplexity, wondering about Katrina. It
was so odd that she had not yet arrived.
She sat there thinking and looking out,
watching the crowds go by, surging up and
down from all directions, for half a dozen
brilliantly lighted thoroughfares converged
upon her point of view. She had not been
seated there very long  though to her it
it seemed ages, time passed so slowly 
when the door opened and Jack Swayne
entered the room. A great wave of joy
surged up within her at sight of him ; but
as she rose up with outstretched arms to
greet him, she only said 

'' Oh, Jack, isn't it a pity we missed the
train ? " It did not strike her as being at
all strange that he should be there.

*eyes, it is a pity," said Jack, tersely;
' but put on your things and come with meat
once."

But, Jack, I can't do that!" she
answered ; " father has sent some one to
meet me  he has only gone away for half
an hour. I can't leave till he comes back ;
it would look so rude, so ungrateful, when
he has been so kind to me."

'i'll make that all right," said Jack;
* trust to me, and come quickly. Katrina's
at my place waiting for you."

Katrina at your place ? " she exclaimed,
opening her eyes wide with wonder ; * why
how strangely things are happening today
! "

"Very strangely," repeated Jack; 'but
make haste ; we can talk as we go along 
we are wasting time."

She was accustomed to obey Jack,
and she obeyed him now. She wanted to

write a note of explanation to her father's
messenger. But she couldn't, as she did not
know his name. However, in order that
she should be quite content, Jack went into
the hotel office and scribbled a message for
him.

He took her straight to his rooms in
Hare Court, where Katrina had contrived
that everything should look homely and
pleasant to her. Clarice was delighted ; it
was no use telling her to be quiet  she
would know how Katrina came there.

** Well, my dear," she answered, simply 
as, having received no instructions from
Jack, she left him to make the important
communication  '' I only just turned my
back for a moment, when I lost you, and
could not find which way you had gone.
It was very awkward, and I thought the
best thing I could do was to come on here'*

"But that is very strange," said Clarice,

with puckered brows. ' I wasn't lost at
all! I went with, the gentleman father had
sent, as he promised, to meet us ; I saw
you being helped out of the carriage, and
he said his servant had orders to look after
you, and bring you after us. I don't
understand it ; it is very strange, very
mysterious. There must be a mistake, a
misunderstanding, somewhere.

She paused a moment. Nobody spoke.
Turning to Jack suddenly she exclaimed


 "Why, Jack, you are looking gloomy and
mysterious now ! What is it all about ?
What does it mean? I know there is
something to tell  what is it?" Struck
by a sudden dread, she cried in a voice
sharpened by anxiety, '* Oh, Jack! is it
anything about father ? Have you heard ?
Is he horse? "

Jack's face reassured her before he spoke.

'make yourself quite easy on that point,"
he said; " I don't believe there is anything
the matter with my uncle."

"But how about the telegram, Jack?"
exclaimed the bewildered girl ; " see what
it says." The message, which she had
sent from Penally, had just been delivered,
and lay on the table before her; she eagerly
tore it open and showed it to him.

' That never came from my imcle at all,"
exclaimed Jack, decisively. Seeing that
Clarice was excited now, he knew her well
enough to know that she would be content
with nothing less than the whole truth.
The fact is, dear, you have been inveigled
up to London on false pretences, and were
separated from Katrina by design, not accident
! "

By whose design ? and why ? " she exclaimed.
'' I think that could hardly be 
you forget my father's messenger "

VOL. II. 17

"Was no messenger at' all," he interrupted
her ; " Katrina saw and recognized
him ! Clary dear, can yon bear to hear it? 
he was the man from whom we have tried
to guard you all your life ! He was M.
Lemaire, the man whom the law recognizes
as your father ! "

All the light and life died out of her face.
She stared at him, white and blank with
terror, and clutched him fast.

There is no cause for alarm now, dear,"
he added ; " you are as safe here as though
you were in Windsor Castle. Katrina, you
must make her sleep."

"I could not sleep," she said, with a
strange calmness.  Jack, don't go ! Stay
and talk  tell me all about it."

There is no more to say, dear ; you
know everything. He lured you up to
town by that false message ; but I spoilt
that little game, and it is all right now.

After such a day of excitement you must
have rest. Don't think, don't worry ; leave
that part of the business to us. I shall be
with you early in the morning."

Clarice was strangely silent after he had
left them ; she made no attempt to enter
into conversation with Katrina  did not
even make any remark on the strange
incidents of the day. She was tired and
worn-out ; but whenever the anxious Katrina
looked at her during the night, she found
her with wide-open, wakeful eyes staring at
the ceiling.

The next morning Jack arrived early and
in good spirits. He had telegraphed to
Mr. Fleming and brought his answer, which
ran thus 

'' Hotel Continental, Paris.
"Am quite well. Have never been ill. Eeturnhome
tomorrow."

CHAPTER XXI. PAGE

Cross-purposes . . . . . 1

CHAPTER XXII.

HUGH SOLVES THE DIFFICULTY . . . 24

CHAPTER XXIII.

HALCYON DAYS . . . . . 45

CHAPTER XXIV.

AN UNEXPECTED MOVE . . . . G3

CHAPTER XXV.

IN A FOG . . . . . . 84

Chapter Xxii. page

MR. FLEMING SEES HIS WAY . .  105

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE LAST NIGHT . . . . . 123

Chapter XXVIII.

THE SAIL ON THE HORIZON



Chapter XXIX.

BY PERSONS UNKNOWN ! " . . . . 157

Chapter XXX.

SURMISE AND SUSPICION . . . . 177

Chapter XXXI.

UNDER THE ORANGE TREES . .  . 195

Chapter XXXII.

SHE KNOWS THE TRUTH ! . .  211

Chapter XXXIII.

UNTO THIS LAST ! . . . . . 228

EPILOGUE 246

Cross-PURPOSES.

MLEMAIEE did not sail for New
 York in the City of Borne, as he had
fully intended to do, and Tvas content to
lose his passage-money. As he had only
changed his mind on the day of sailing,
there was no time to make other arrangements.
Alien he returned to the Black-friars
Hotel  Yhich was only a short time
after Clarice had left it  and found the bird
flown, he was for the moment unbounded.
The bell-boy gave him Jack's card; he
received it smiling blandly, as he inquired 
*did the gentleman leave any message



"

VOL, III.

*' Only what's written on that card, sh."
* Thanks. I'm sorry I missed him," he
observed, as he slowly ascended the stairs,
humming softly a French chansonnette as he
went. Thus he took his punishment, and
came up smiling, outwardly at least ; his
inward feelings he confided to no one.

He was puzzled to find how he had been
checkmated just as he thought he had captured
the queen ! He could not conceive
how his well-arranged little scheme had
miscarried  just at the point of completion
too ! for in twelve hours they would have
been at sea, safe from detaining hands.
Where and how could Jack have found the
clue to his doing? There was a puzzle
beyond his powers of solution.

He had obtained his knowledge of Mr.
Fleming's movements easily enough. He
happened to be going into the station to
get an evening paper, and caught sight of

'My. Fleming's luggage labelled on the platform
 void tout. Thence this course was
easy enough : the telegram was dispatched,
and in obedience Clarice came. He had
caught a glimpse of Katrina's face at the
carriage window, and to separate Clarice
from her was the work of a moment.
Everything seemed as easy as A B C.
The next morning they would have been at
sea, and as he had taken the passages
under a false name there would have been
no clue, no possibility of tracking them ;
but at the very hour of completion his
whole airy structure fell with a crash !
For the present he was foiled, not beaten ;
he was by no means at the end of his
resources.

He had no doubt that the law would at

once give him the guardianship of his

daughter ; but to the law, for his own

.special reasons, he did not wish to appeal.

He had better avoid all contact with the
legal profession. Meanwhile he would set
himself to discover through what agency
his discomfiture was brought about, that
he might better know how to carry on his
operations in future. Like the crafty gopher,
he liked working underground. Can weever
tell how the game of cross-purposes
is carried on ? The invisible Fates are
throwing the dice and weaving their tangled
web all the while ; and we go to work
carefully, building and arranging our little
plans, when lo ! a breath of wind blows,
from an unknown quarter and our cherished
schemes collapse like a house of cards 
like  Humpty Dumpty," never to be put
together again.

Of course all Penally had been speedily
made aware that Mr. Fleming had been
taken seriously ill in Paris, and that
Miss Lemaire had been summoned to his

bedside. They had seen her depart with
much interest ; great was the astonishment
therefore when she returned the next day,
accompanied by Mr. Fleming, hale and
well ; and the rumour soon circulated
the village that she had been entrapped
to leave Penally under false pretences. But
why ? by whom ? and wherefore ? Everybody
wondered, but they were left to
wander through the wilds of wonderland
and chew the cud of reflection at their own
pleasure. The questions remained unanswered,
and another mystery was set down
to the account at the Manor House. Would
a general settling-day never come ?

Clarice bore up bravely under the shock
and it was a great shock  of finding how
near she had been to what she had dreaded
all her life !  Strange and unnatural it
seems that a child should have such a
horror of this unknown father's touch ;

the sight of this unknown father's face I
But it must he kept in mind that Clarice
was altogether in an abnormal condition.
She had been affected before she was born
by the miserable circumstances of her
mother's life ; her nature had been created
and moulded amid a very earthquake of the
emotions, when that mother's nature, of
which she was the invisible part, was appalled
by the ghastly present and haunted
by apprehensions for the future. Her
terror of the man who had so cruelly used
her  her dread lest her child should suffer
as she had suffered  had affected the nature
of that unborn child with a shuddering
horror of him: she was born with it, as
some are born with a horror of snakes or.
other noxious reptiles, which could not be
lived down or reasoned away.

Well, after the first shock was over,
Clarice relapsed, or seemed to relapse, into

a state of strange calm  not apathy, not
indifference, but a thoughtful calm ; vhicli
greatly puzzled Mr. Fleming, sho 'as
himself much disturbed. He did not know
where to look for, or on which side to guard
against, any future attack ; for he knew M.
Lemaire too well to believe he would sit
down quiet after his failure ; on the contrary,
he would set all his ingenuity to the
hatching of h'esh schemes, the carving out
a new road to the goal of his desires. If
Clarice had been penniless he would never
have taken the trouble to inquire whether
she were living or dead ; but since she had
become the heiress to a splendid fortune,
she had become the object of his concentrated
affections. He considered himself,
on the whole, as rather an injured man, defrauded
of his rights by his own daughter !
For if Mrs. Lemaire had lived she would
have inherited ; and as husband and wife

are one flesh, and as he knew so well how
to manipulate his marital authority, he
would have held all in the hollow of his
hand ! Now Clarice's dainty hand grasped
all he coveted !

* She will marry that jackanapes, young
Swayne," he argued, " and all she has will
pass into his possession and out of my reach
for ever."

Now if only he could contrive to get
Clarice away from the loving guardianship
of Mr. Fleming, he knew he should find no
difficulty in forcing her to act according to
his will ; or, with her peculiarities, which
would developed largely under his care, he
could easily put her aside, if not in one
way, in another, and take upon himself the
administration of her property. This was
the aim and object of his ardent aspirations
; and all this Mr. Fleming knew full
well, and realized the peril which surrounded

his daiiiug. He knew that M. Female had
no conscience, no heart, and would hesitate
at nothing.

It was not possible to obtain any legal
protection for Clarice. The law can only
grapple with things that are; it cannot
fight against possibilities or war with 'may
he's." However convinced a man may feel
at the evil intentions of another, unless the
intentions be carried into effect there is
nothing tangible to lay hold of. The air-drawn
dagger, visible to one, is non-existent
to the rest of the world. He also
knew that his anxieties  for which his experience
gave him such grave cause  if he
ventured to express them openly, would be
laughed at as 'ran old man's foolish fancies."
If Clarice were only married, all would be
well : all authority would lie in her husband's
hands ; no father could interfere
between them. Why was she  so weak in

many was  so strong in lier perversity ?
He did not believe that she had any objection
to Jack personally. The doubts of her
own fitness for the marriage state  the fear
of herself  kept her from it ; if that could
be overcome  and surely, since things had
touched her so nearly, that well might be 
then this last move of M. Lemaire, which
seemed so evil, might be the forerunner of
great good.

He resolved to take the earliest opportunity
of once more speaking to Clarice
seriously upon the subject. Filled with
these thoughts he returned home. He
talked very little by the way ; indeed there
was no opportunity for confidential conversation,
as the compartment was occupied
by fellows-travellers all the way down. It
was not really till they had reached home,
that Clarice could give him all the details
of her adventures. They dined iete-a-Ute,

and as soon as dinner was over they went
into the drawing-room. She wheeled his
chair to the window, that they might enjoy
the sweet air and look out upon the lovely
night. She placed herself on a stool at
his feet, her hands clasped upon his knees,
and gazed wistfully into his face  but said
nothing.

On ordinary occasions, and with small
cause, she would be nervous and excited,
shaken as by a storm of apprehension.
Now that there was cause for alarm, and
she had stood face to face with wh-at she
had most dreaded all her life, she was calm,
and apparently unruffled by a thought ! He
could not comprehend her, and approached
the subject he had at heart very cautiously.

** My dear child," he said, making the
first move on the mental chess-board, " I
tremble when I think of what might have
happened to you ! It seems as though

some special providence had been told off
to watch over my darling. You have had
a very narrow escape."

* Yes  I suppose so," she responded, as
though they were discussing a matter-of-fact
affair.

 Do you quite realize what I mean?"
he added, as he leaned forward and looked
in her face. 'you know what we have
always dreaded? If he had succeeded in
getting you away  the man who was cruel
to the mother would have no mercy on the
child."

''No  no mercy," in a slightly tremulous
voice.

"It is no use for me to take you away
fi'om here, for evidently he keeps an eye
upon our movements. He will watch as
patiently as a cat watches for a mouse, and
be always ready to spring. I see no way
out of our difficulties."

' You told me there was one way once,"
she said, in a low voice, and blushed as her
head drooped.

-  Yes I " he exclaimed, a flash of joy
springing to his eyes.  Clarice, my best
and dearest child, are you thinking  will
you consider that one way ? "

"You don't think it would be wrong forme
to  to think of that one way ? " she
said, shyly. Then speaking more rapidly,
she added, * Things and people do change
sometimes  under new conditions ; they
change with the circumstances that change
round them, as though a quick sudden
tm-n in the wheel of life sent them into a
new atmosphere. If doctors can cure the
body, why can't God, in His own way, cure
the spirit, and not let it always suffer ? I
mean," she added, forcing herself to speak
more plainly in reference to herself than
she had ever spoken before  she always

shrank from any allusion to herself. It
evidently cost her an effort to say what
she wanted to say now, hut she said it  -
** I mean, do you think these fits of depression,
these terrible nervous distractions
that have afflicted me all my life, will ever
pass away ? "

** My child, I think they are passing
away," he answered, sincerely. ' I feared
that this last day's doing would throw you
into the darkest depths  and see how
bravely you have born it ! Altogether you
have been much better lately, have had
fewer and slighter attacks. You must feel
this yourself? "

* Yes," she answered, ' I do feel it ; for
the first time in my life I have hopes of
myself ! Dad, darling, I begin to think
there may be something  something coming
into the life of your poor Clarice  better
than darkness and despair. Some strange

revolution is going on within me ; my better
self is struggling against my worse."

'That is as it should be," he answered,
cheerfully; *sto struggle against an evil is
the first step towards overcoming it. Once
sheltered in the love, secure in the devotion,
of a true man, you will hive a new life, and
learn to look back on these dark days as on
a dream that is past."

* Pray Heaven it may be so ! " she murmured,
and bent her head upon her hands,
silent for a moment as though her heart
was lifting the prayer to God.

' My darling, you have made me very
happy I " he added, taking a header into his
own conclusions. 'An hour ago my heart
was as heavy as lead ; now it is as light asa
feather ! I feel as though I could loose
the weight of years fi'om my limbs and leap
into the air I Indeed I feel so universally
glad, I  I could even shake hands with my

worst enemy  even with your father,
now!"

'father? Don't say that," she exclaimed,
sharply; ''I have no father but
you  and One in heaven ! "

' That's true  and  well, we'll let him
drop  we'll think of him no more. Let
me once set my darling child safe in a
loving husband's arms, and the world may
wag as it will. It has not another care forme.
If I were to die tomorrow, I should
die content."

"Darling and best of fathers! how you
love me ! " she rejoined, twining her arms
about his neck.

'ray  you and my boy. Jack have had
all my heart's love between you. The one
hope, the one prayer of my life has been,
for this that has come about. You pretty
piece of perversity ! " he added, fondly.
*' I always thought you cared for him  a

little, though you were so wrong-headed
and obstinate ! However, * all's well that
ends well.' I'll write to Jack at once and
tell him "

' But, dad darling," she exclaimed, interrupting
him in some alarm, " I don't
think you quite understand."

'' Oh yes ! I understand quite enough ;
but perhaps it would come better from you,"
he answered, thinking she desired to make
the communication herself. She looked
puzzled as she answered 

' I don't see any necessity for writing to
Jack just yet. Of course I don't mind his
knowing, but I don't think he'll care."

"Not care I " echoed the jubilant old
man, " when he has loved you all his life ?
Not care ! when he learns that of your own
free will "

'* Oh, stop! do stop!" she interrupted
quickly; "we are all wrong we don't

VOL. in. 3

understand one another at all. Haven't I
told you "

' You have told me quite enough  that
you will make my old heart glad at last.
The one great object of my life will be
fulfilled : I . shall give my child into the
hands of a good, true man."

** But, father dear," she said, gravely,
** there are other true men in the world
besides  Jack."

The whole expression of his face changed;
he looked at her fixedly, inquiringly, as
though some new idea had struck him, and
he was not sure he had heard aright. He
repeated her words slowly.

' Other true and good men in the world
besides Jack ! Yes  but not for you, Clarice,
not for you. There is no man in the world
to whom I would entrust you except my
Jack ! If any other idea has come into
your head, put it away as quickly as you can."

** Yon might as well ask me to put my
life away ! Don't be angry, father dear  it
breaks my heart to grieve you ! " A moment's
pause, then she added  and there was a
strange pathos in her voice, '' You know
how, all my life, I have been afflicted,
groping through darkness and despair, a
mystery and a dread to myself ; now that
a ray of light is coming  has come  you
cannot ask me to shut it out ! "

"No, my child, no! " he answered, finding
it impossible to resist her soft, pleading
tones; "but suppose this ray of light is
but a will-o'-the-wisp, a kind of ignis fatuus
to blaze and dazzle for a day, and leave you
in worse depths tomorrow ! "

' One never knows what may happen on
any tomorrow ; besides, there never is a tomorrow
 it is always to-day. Dad darling,"
she added, nestling closer to his side, " if
it were not for this new hope, new love,,

that has come Id to my life, how could I
have borne the horror of what has threatened
me to-day ? Yet see, I smile and am
happy ! I feel as though no care, no
trouble, could ever touch me any more 
since he loves me ! "

The old man groaned aloud.

' You think only of yourself, Clarice,"
he said in a trembling voice, as though the
silver cord of his life was broken. He had
built his hopes, concentrated his life-long
desires, upon these two ; they had been his
joy, his very soul. Now they Heed for him
no longer ! It was not Jack  it was another.
A stranger had taken Jack's place. 'you
think only of yourself," he repeated; '' you
do not see the grief and bitter disappointment
you cause to me and mine. With
this cruel blow you have broken my heart."

' No, no; don't say that!" she exclaimed,
passionately. "Because you cannot take

my heart in your hand and give it where
you please, and work out mis happiness
according to your design, you say I have
broken your heart ! It is ijoit who are
cruel, not I ! Why, you have always said
that my happiness was your chief care ; and
now that you see I am happy, you want to
drag me down, to take my one hope away,
and push me back into the horrors I am
leaving behind ! "

The old man was struck by her simple
honest plain-speaking ; it was quite a new
phase in her character. He could hardly
believe that this was the weak, wavering,
dreamy Clarice, who had always been as a
child in his hands, swayed by every changing
wind that blew ! He ran his fingers through
his white hair perplexedly.

* There is some truth in what you say,
my child, God knows ! I don't want to be
hard, only " He seemed to gulp down

some bitter thought as he added, with a ,
ghastly smile : "Well, if you can't be happy
in my way, I  I must try to let you be
happy in your own. And you must make
allowance for me if I have seemed hard.
You have taken me so by surprise."

"But why should you be taken by surprise,
father dear?" she answered. "I
have never deceived you ; I have always
said that I could never care for Jack in the
way you wanted me to."

"Yes, yes, I knows," he exclaimed; "but
I always thought that a day must come
when you would change your mind. You
have always been so soft and pliable in
everything but this."

"I suppose we have all a streak of granite
in our nature somewhere  and you have
struck on mine."

Their conversation was here interrupted
by a loud ring at the bell ; then Hugh's

voice was heard in tones of eager inquiry.
Clarice impulsively flung her arms round
Mr. Fleming's neck, and, with love-light in
her eyes and ardent pleading in her voice,
exclaimed 

"It is he ! Hugh ! my Hugh ! Father
dear, be kind ! Remember you hold my
life  all the life I care to live  between
you!"

The young villain ! I thought as
much," muttered Mr. Fleming, only half
aloud.

In another moment Hugh  not the gay,
debonair, laughing Hugh we know; but
Hugh with a haggard, anxious face, with not
the ghost of a smile left anywhere  stood
in the open doorway.

HUGH SOLVES THE DIFFICULTY.

AS Hugh's eager eyes fell upon Clarice
he gave a great sigh of relief. All the
old gladness flashed back into his face, ashe
impetuously caught both her hands in
his, exclaiming 

'' My darling ! safe and well ! Thank
God!"

A garbled and greatly exaggerated account
of the late doings had been filtered through
one channel of communication and another,
till by the time it had reached the Rectory
it was a distorted mass from which nothing

could be extracted clearly except that some
terrible danger had threatened Clarice !
The moment this intelligence reached them,
Hugh rushed off to learn the truth for
himself; and on arriving at the Manor
House speedily discovered that the fable of
the ' Three Black Crows " had been once
more illustrated by village gossip. For the
moment Hugh had been so rejoiced at the
sight of Clarice as to be quite oblivious of
the presence of Mr. Fleming ; but immediately
on realizing that substantial fact
he stretched out his hand in the old cordial
way, as he said 

* My dear Mr. Fleming, pray excuse me !
For the moment I had no thought, no eyes
for anything but Clarice. I suppose you
know "  he gazed inquiringly from one to
the other  " she has told you "

Oh yes," interrupted Mr. Fleming, ina
slightly disgusted tone ; " she has told

me that you have made fools of yourselves
and one another."

 Happy fools  are we not, dear?" rejoined
Hugh, looking fondly and proudly
upon her face; " and I hope you'll not object
to our folly?"

When I have a bitter pill to swallow,"
he answered, ' I make a wry face, as is
natural : but in the end I gulp it down with
a good grace."

* Oh, come ! I'm not such a bitter pill as
all that," said Hugh ; " I shall not interfere
with your digestion. And when you see how
happy we are, you'll own that love, the real,
honest article, is the most refreshing and
invigorating tonic out."

' Love ! " echoed the old man, rather
contemptuously ; ** there are many other
things in this world to be thought of
besides ' love ! ' But there, I'm inclined
to consider anything kindly that makes my

child look as she is looking now ! " He
gave a grudging sigh as he saw Clarice's
happy, radiant face glow beneath her lover's
gaze. "But there is no time to think or
talk of anything to-night. AYe have had a
long journey and a great deal of excitement;
Clarice must rest. It is getting late ; come
in tomorrow and we'll have a talk and try
to send a train of common sense through
this fool's paradise of yours. But  no, not
another word now. Say ' good-night ' and
part, this excitement will be too much for
Clarice."

In vain she protested she was not tired
in the least  that she was wide awake, and
that her brain seemed all alive, like a mass
of animated atoms ; that she could not
possibly rest, even if she went to bed. He
insisted that she should at least try the
experiment ; so, reluctantly, they were compelled
to say "good-night." It took a longtime

to say it, but it was said at last  extracted
from a mass of whispered words ;
and Clarice stood in the pale moonlight
watching her lover till he passed from her
sight lost in the shadow of the dark, greenwoods.


Hugh was at the Manor House early next
morning, and after half an hour's stroll in
the garden with Clarice he was summoned
to Mr. Fleming's study, and was there
closeted with him for some hours. There
was a great deal to be said, much more
indeed than is usual on such occasions, on
account of the many peculiarities surrounding
Clarice's life. The old man had spent
a great part of the night in thinking over
matters, and decided that it would be only
right and proper that a man who contemplated
connecting himself with a family
should be made acquainted with any special
features of its history, especially those relating

to the lady of his choice. Sight
concealments in the early days, the first
flush of romance and love, lead to heavy
consequences in after years, and give to
each party the lamentable right to reproach
the other  a right some few of either sex
are given to exercise to their own confusion.
Such rights, when they exist, it is
wisest and best to forego.

Well, Mr. Fleming resolved that no seed
should rest in the present that could yield
a bitter harvest in the future ; for a time
comes when the most romantic, high-flying
love-match must settle down on the level
plains of life, and it is then, when the fever
fit is over and things settle down to their
normal state, that the pure peace and
serene happiness of life begins, and either
discord or harmony takes possession of the
fireside. It is impossible to say, but perhaps
a latent idea lingered in Mr. Fleming's

mind that when Hugh became acquainted
with every feature in the family history,
especially with Clarice's own morbid peculiarities,
he might himself be frightened  as
many men similarly situated would be  and,
in common parlance, " cry off." He never
reflected what the effect of such a course
of conduct would have upon Clarice  so
blind are men in their love as in their hate !
But Hugh was not to be * frighted with
false fire." He would not quail before any
' might be," but was always ready to face
'' what is." He was never known to look
on the dark side of anything, however
closely it was held to his view ; he shifted
his sight and looked on the gleam of light
beyond. So long as there was the scent of a
single rose-leaf in the air he never thought
of thorns ; and as for any sentimental
maundering about the '' canker-worm at
the root of every flower," his strong healthy

nature threw such poetical twaddle to the
winds ; so he was not disposed to look
darkly on any pictured possibility while the
love of his life held the foreground.

Mr. Fleming, therefore, as in honour
bound, told him all Clarice's family history
from her birth  nay, he took up the thread
before her birth, and the morbid terrors and
fancies that grew with her growth and
haunted all her life ; his own unfortunate
marriage with her mother  the dread of
disgrace, and all the miseries ending in her
death which followed it ; how, in carrying
out her dead mother's last wishes, he had
been travelling with Clarice for the last few
years in order to keep her from falling into
her father's hands, and how, since she had
become the heiress in her mother's right to
a large property, he had sought diligently
to obtain possession of her  and confided to
him his own well-grounded fears on that

subject ; how he had at last traced them to
Penally  was, indeed, the injured stranger
who had been received there  how he had
been fought with and for the moment
driven away. Lastly he informed him of the
false telegram which had decoyed Clarice
to London, and all that followed thereupon.

Hugh listened gravely and without comment
until he had spoken his last word.
Hugh had quietly gathered all the information
into his mental digester ; he was able
to comprehend the situation perfectly, but
was not disposed to move one iota from his
original position respecting Clarice. He
did not seem excited or much moved in
any way.

** Well," he said, coolly, seeing that Mr.
Fleming waited for him to speak, *you
have shown me a hideous and unnatural
side of human nature. As for Lemaire 
faugh ! it is too nauseous to think of him.

He's not fit to live. But let the past go ; we
have the future to think of. Only give me
Clarice, and he and the devil may hunt in
couples till they land themselves in their
own blazes, for what I care ! " And this
was all the comment this thoughtless young
man made on Mr. Fleming's tragic revelations.


' But do you quite comprehend the delicacy
 the morbid tendencies of my child's
nature ? Do you realize the uncertainty of
development, the watchful care and attention
that is necessary to her state ? "

' I don't realize anything about it," said
Hugh, bluntly, and rather resentfully. * I
only know that she is as fragile and delicate
in mind and body as I am strong and
healthy ; and as we catch disease by contact
with the flesh, why should not we catch
health and strength by contact with the
spirit ? I believe that in the fusion of two

VOL. in. 4

lives the stronger affects the weaker, and
that my vigorous nature will stimulate and
strengthen hers. I shall have no thought,
no care but for her, and to her I shall devote
my life. I couldn't say more if I was to
talk till doomsday."

' It is easy talking  the doing is the
difficulty," said Mr. Fleming.

 When people love one another as we
do, everything comes easy."

' I suppose you have ascertained before
this," said the old man, with one of his
keen, suspicious glances, ' that the man
who marries Clarice takes no dowerless
bride ? When she is of age  which will not
be for a year or more  she will come into
possession of the fortune that would have
been her mother's."

'Ehl" exclaimed Hugh, taken somewhat
by surprise ; * well, no, I can't say
that I have taken that into consideration

at all ! You see we have not got to the
cash account yet. Until this moment I
have never thought whether Clarice were
penniless  I have thought only of herself."
Seeing an incredulous look come over Mr.
Fleming's face, he added quickly, and with
more warmth than was usual with him :
*' You may believe me or not, I don't care
a straw for Clarice's money ! I'm not the
sort of fish to hover about a golden bait.
I would rather work for her than not. I've
got talent, I know, and I don't mean to
wrap it up in a napkin, either. I shall
wrap my head up in wet towels, as I've
heard other fellows do, and grind hard. I
shall go through a regular course of mental
gymnastics till I can reach the top bar at
a bound."

*' It is all very well talking," said Mr.
Fleming, impatiently  for Hugh's buoyant
lightness irritated him  'but there is much

to be considered and discussed before things
can be allowed to go further between you
twos'

Hugh's face fell.

*you can't hinder our loving one another,"
he answered; ' you may give us
trouble and worry, but the more you are
against us, the stronger we shall pull together.
Look here, sir, let us lay our cards
on the table and look at facts as they stand.
An hour ago it seemed to be your one
great anxiety to keep Clarice from falling
into  that monster's hands'*

*rit was and is my chief anxiety," answered
the old man, slowly.

*' Well, it seems to me there's nothing
easier. Look here now, Mr. Fleming ; only
give your consent, and I'll run up to town
tomorrow, get a license, marry Clarice the
next day  and there you are ! Don't you
see ? " he added with much satisfaction, as

though he had suggested a most diplomatic
and brilliant move. ''I shall be her natural
protector then ; and the old sinner may
make any move he likes  he'll be checkmated
at the onset ! He may appeal to
the law and bring down a whole army of
lawyers against us : I take the field with our
marriage certificate, and they are routed in
confusion ! Why, it will be all plain sailing
if I take an oar in the boat."

The audacity of such a proposal for the
moment unbounded Mr. Fleming ; it
seemed actually to take away his breath.
His conventional ideas received quite a
shock !

'' You must be mad to think of such a
thing," he said, almost indignantly. '' You
talk of carrying Clarice off by a coup che main
as though she were a milkmaid. No, no ;
all things having any reference to Clarice
must be carried out in the orthodox, time-honoured

fashion. There can be no such
thing as marriage talked of for some time

yet."

'' Ton my soul, I don't see v/hy not! "
said the obtuse young manu

There are many legal formalities to begone
through  settlements to be made, and
many other matters to be looked into ; for
her interests must be well protected."

"I think only of her'' exclaimed Hugh,
keeping to his point; 'rand of the most
expedient way of securing her safety. That
seems to me to be the only thing worth
thinking about, if there is really any reason
for your fears  though I must own it seems
to me most monstrous that the greed for
wealth and power should urge a man against
his own child to the terrible extent you seem
to fear."

'' The child he had never seen till the enforced
meeting yesterday," said Mr. Fleming,

inteiTiiptiiig him quickly ; " the child
whose mother he cruelly injured and hunted
to death I Yes, it is monstrous, it is exceptional
 but it is trice. To an unscrupulous
man, without heart or conscience, nothing
is impossible. He regards Clarice as a bar
to what he covets, and at the expense of
her liberty  ay, even of her life  he would
remove her, if he could do so with safety."

" Thank Qod, he can't do that, in this
land at least ! " exclaimed Hugh.

'' No ; but once in his custody he might
take her to other countries, where disease
lingers in the air, and fever's hot hand would
save him from the actual sin of "

Hugh did not wait for him to finish the
sentence ; he paced the room with angry,
rapid strides, exclaiming 

My God ! you dare to contemplate
these horrible possibilities, and yet refuse
to take the one step that would place her,

now and for ever, beyond the reach of all !
Forgive me, but I can hardly believe either
in the sincerity of your love or of your fears.
Why in the midst of all this you talk of
legal formalities,' ' settlements,' and  financial
arrangements,' as though you were
managing a matrimonial sale in Mayfair !
Fling all these considerations to the wind,
and let us think only of Clarice. If you
will not agree to my mode of securing her
safety, I shall not rest till you have found
some other."

'* You need be under no anxiety," replied
Mr. Fleming, coldly, half jealous of the
young man's authoritative, possessive way
of speaking. ''J shall take all necessary
precautions respecting my child. She is
more to me than she can ever be to 7joic.''

* Don't know so much about that,"
answered Hugh. '' She is your past, but she
is m7j future ! See here, Mr. Fleming, we

both love Clarice, though in a different
way, and we have both one object in view 
her happiness and safety. You would take
slow, cautious steps ; I would make one
bold stroke. No half-measures for me."

'' And if I were insane enough to agree
to your 'bold stroke,' and allow you to
marry Clarice in this most extraordinary
and sudden way (remember she has no
fortune till she is of age), what would you
do with her?"

*' Ton my word, I don't exactly know,"
answered Hugh, frankly. 'you see, as the
idea was only born ten minutes ago, I
haven't had time to think about it  but I'd
ensure her against starvation anyway ; and
Clarice in a cotton-goTi, with a happy face
and a light heart, with a mind at rest and
my love warm and close about her, will be
far happier than haunted, hunted, as she is
now ! "

There was a great deal of good, honest
truth m Hugh's hasty suggestion that struck
home to the old man's heart, and though he
could not help regarding him as one who had
stolen the rights of his 'boy Jack," he
respected him nevertheless. Still, he could
not readily bring his mind to regard him in
the position he aspired to fill ; besides, the
present aspect of affairs had been so lately
presented to his view, that he had not had
time to reconcile himself to the general
view. Their ideas and feelings could not be
expected to run in the same groove at the
outset ; but when each realized the sincerity
of the other, though they took opposite
sides of the question, they were able to discuss
it in a more amicable manner.

They had a long talk, and by the end of
the interview had argued themselves into a
more amicable frame of mind. Mr. Fleming
explained the course of action he intended

to pursue in regard to Clarice ; he
would be watchful and careful, and certainly
should remain at Penally for a time. He
had no fears of any open violence ; Lemaire
was always subtle and silent in his movements,
but he did not apprehend any
further annoyance from him for awhile at
least. Before he made another move, he
would probably wait till present events had
faded into the distance. So they laid their
ghost, and hid away the skeleton so that
they would not hear its bones rattle.

Meanwhile, Mr. Fleming conceded this
much to Hugh : he promised to put no
obstacle in his way ; and if at the end of
three months he and Clarice were of the
same mind as now, he would then consider
the subject of their speedy marriage. Hugh
was compelled to admit that this was reasonable
enough, and so that Clarice was safe in
Mr. Fleming's guardianship he was content.

In fact, when be first entered the room he
had expected to meet far greater opposition ;
but since then everything was changed.
Mr. Fleming's unexpected and starting
communication had put all things in a new
light. Of course Hugh would rather have
had his own way and carried Clarice off at
oiice  the excitement and romance of it
would have been delightful; but as that
was not to be  well, he would turn his
thoughts in another direction and look
ahead.

They sat there making plans, deciding
what should and what should not be, as
though life were a chess-board, and they
held the game in their own hands  no fear
of Destiny giving them ' checkmate."

Chapter XXIII.

HALCYON DAYS.

Beings the week following the interview
between Mr. Fleming and Hugh
Spencer, Hugh and Clarice had some hours
of every day together  the happiest hours
they could ever expect to know. They
walked in the glow of a pure first love,
filled with radiant hopes, life's fairest prospect
opening out before them  a very
paradise ! and their imagination marched
straight on and took possession.

Hugh communicated to her so much of
his interview with Mr. Fleming as concerned

themselves, and nothing more ; no vexing
word was allowed to reach her ears ; all
thoughts, doubts, or fears, that could cast a
shadow over her were to be withheld. The
past, as far as possible, was to be obliterated
from her mind ; her thoughts distracted
therefrom, and directed towards a happy
future, now so rich in promise  in fact, she
was to be nursed back into peace and
security, while loving friends kept watch
and ward over her.

This was not so difficult a task ; for Hugh
being now the centre of her life, it was
easy to group her wandering fancies, and
concentrate her thoughts upon him. Meanwhile,
by Mr. Fleming's desire, the present
arrangement was not to be talked about ;
they were to keep silent upon the subject
until the time should come when the engagement
might be decided and publicly
announced, and a near time fixed for their

marriage. The game of "love in idleness
" was played out, and Hugh was to
return to Cambridge, work hard, keep his
last term there, and prepare himself for the
life that lay before him. Clarice was reconciled
to his going ; to one of her dreamy,
imaginative nature, actual and constant
presence was not necessary to keep love
alive.

We shall not really be parted, Hugh,"
she exclaimed, looking brightly up into his
face, as they took their last stroll together
on the night that he was to say 'good-bye."
How could we be ? " she added. '' I shall
wander through our old haunts, and walk
and talk with an invisible Hugh just as I
am walking and talking now. I shall hear
your voice in everything, and when I shut
my eyes I shall see you plainly still. You
know in the old dark days, rivers, and trees,
and flowers, everything had a tongue  the

wind was full of voices, and men and
women talked with the unseen spirits of
those who had passed into the land of
shadows. To some people, I think, things
are the same now ; only it will be the spirit
of my living Hugh, not of the dead, that
will walk and talk with me."

Clarice's fanciful way of looking at things
was always rather misty to Hugh ; it did not
quite come home to his understanding. He
gave an extra pressure to the little hand that
lay in his, and turned a pair of eager, loving
eyes upon her face as he answered 

'' Ah ! all that sounds very pretty, and
it means that we shall think of one another
a great deal, but I'd rather be here in my
own substantial person ! I don't take much
stock in imagination  that is a purely feminine
property. I like the genuine article
no dreamy shadow for me, but my own
beautiful, bodily Clara, that I can hold in

my arms, and kiss the warm, soft lips as
I kiss them now ! " and he proceeded to
demonstrate at once the bass of the actual
loving presence of the beloved.

Time glided on too quickly; the night
closed in, and the hour came when they
must say ' good-bye." The long lingering
was over, and they parted, as lovers part
who hope to meet again upon some swift-coming
tomorrow ! Life flowed on in its
old monotonous calm ; the old routine was
resumed at the Manor House. Clarice and
Mr. Fleming took their rambles through
the country, and along the shore, hunting
for specimens for his collection  sometimes
finding them. There was no visible change
in their relations to one another, except
perhaps that he was more tender and she
brighter and happier than ever. They
talked a little of Hugh; Mr. Fleming
missed the high-spirited young fellow about

VOL. III. 5

the house more than he chose to admit.
He had identified himself so entirely with
the old man's pursuits, and was always so
full of mirth and gladness ; his very laugh
was infectious, and his genial, happy face
was as cheering as a ray of sunshine in
the room. Of Jack they talked sometimes
of his pursuits, his prospects, and his
future ; of the skeleton which they had
hidden away they talked not at all. It
could not he that they did not think of
Lemaire, for there was no change in his
position regarding them, and the danger
to Clarice was as great as ever  greater
perhaps, on account of his near proximity ;
for he was still in London, according to the
report of Jack, who admitted that he could
gain no clue to any of his doings having
any reference to them. However, it wa
impossible to blot him from their memory
though they might do so from their lips 

for often what is farthest from our hips
is nearest to onr hearts. They seemed
to have concentrated all their thoughts
and focussed their mental vision upon one
right spot. The kaleidoscope of life had
turned, and given them a larger, broader
view, a wider field on which to exercise
their imagination ; where new-horn hopes,
fresh and strong, seemed to come straight
down from heaven, and rout the dark fears
that had haunted them all their lives, and
sent them flying to the rear.

Clarice and Miriam were closer friends
than ever ; each seemed to have a beneficial
effect upon the other  the one grew more
expansive and confiding, the other more
sympathetic and more charitable in her
ideas.

The Misses Laurence, large, loud, and
hearty, occasionally swept in, like an
invigorating north-easter, beaming with

health and good-nature, taking everything
and everybody by storm. They formed a
striking contrast to Miriam's sedate serenity;
sometimes they jarred upon Clarice,
but on the whole such time as they spent
together passed pleasantly enough. Occasionally
they indulged in little musical
gatherings  they rather prided themselves
on their musical abilities ; as Stella said,
 We are not a clever family; we don't set
ourselves up as intellectual lights, but we
can sing." Like many other misguided
mortals, they thought they did well what
they really could not do at all ! To Clarice,
whose very soul was attuned to music, who
thrilled and responded in every fibre of her
nature to every tone and touch of melody,
these pretentious performances were a vexation
an an outrage. Their tuneless voices
set her nerves quivering painfully as though
they had received a blow; their braviirct

songs were bad enough  they rushed up
with a scream, came down with a crash,
rushed in and out among cade?izas and
crescendos as though they were playing
hide-and-seek with their own voices, so
twisting and distorting the original melody
that its composer would not have known
it. But when they came to the sentimental
love songs, 'ein mournful measures long
drawn out," the effect was depressing and
irritating in the extreme. Even Bouncer
felt it, and would uplift his head, shut his
eyes, and give vent to a series of lugubrious
howls, as though he heard some canine
friend in distress and was forthwith ignominiously
hunted hom the room. Stella,
who was the lorna donna of the party,
attributed Clarice's want of enthusiasm to
a feeling something akin to jealousy, and
was flattered, and forgave her. Thus the
intimacy, such as it was, continued to flow

on in the usual conventional fashion, and
was a part of the social life at Penally.

Mr. Fleming now paid frequent visits to
Mr. Laurencescarcely a day passed that
there were not long interviews between the
two ; and as Mr. Fleming never attempted
to pay his respects to the ladies, they
labelled his visits '' official." But when
Mr. Laurence took to paying similar visits
to the Manor House, and remained sometimes
till far into the night, the family
curiosity was roused, especially as he
seemed more thoughtful and abstracted
than usual.

'what can be the matter with Papa ? "
exclaimed Stella, one morning as she and
her mother sat Ute-a-Ute.

"I'm sure I can't tell, my dear," she
answered; 'something disturbs him very
seriously. He can't sleep at night, and all
the years we've been married I've never

known a client's case interfere with Lis
digestion before, and I don't understand
it now."

' There's something very strange and
mysterious in this case, I'm sure," rejoined
Stella; "I'm certain of that. I wonder if
it has anything to do with that man who
was hurt in the railway accident. You know
they kept things so close, and smuggled
him out of the way in such a suspicious
manner ; and Clarice being sent to the
Parkes's, so that she should know nothing
of what was going on, looks suspicious, to
say the least of it."

"Why, my dear child," rejoined Mrs.
Laurence, in her jolly fat voice, " you
don't suppose they're hatching another
gunpowder plot ! I'm sure there is no
harm anywhere, or your father wouldn't
be mixed up in it  he's far too shrewd and
hard-headed for that."

'The hardest heads get cracked sometimes,
Mamma."

** Yes, if they rmi against a brick wall,"
answered mamma ; ' but yom* father's not
one of that sort : he always looks where he
is going to  you never catch him with his
weather eye shut. Of course these wakeful
nights are very unpleasant, very trying,
and however strong I make his night-cap
it has no effect ; he might as well go to bed
on toast and water."

 I'm very fond of Clarice," said Stella,
*' and Mr. Fleming is a dear old man  but
I hate mystery."

 I wouldn't be too curious, my dear,"
replied Mrs. Laurence ; * perhaps they have
a large amount of dirty linen to wash, and
your father's helping them to do it in
private. Quite right too ; I hate the idea
of dragging one's private affairs before the
public. But I do think he might let us into

the secret ; it isn't as if they were strangers,
for they are friends of ours as lyell as
clients of his."

Yes," said Stella, in an aggrieved tone,
*it is very hard to be shut out of everything
; I'm determined to find things out.
I'll just ask papa straight out, and if he
won't tell me, I'll worry him till he does."

* You had better he careful, Stella; your
father doesn't allow any interference in his
business affairs. He's like a snapping turtle
if I ask a simple question ; he bites my head
off."

After a general consultation it was decided
that Stella, who was the family
favourite, and the special pet of her father,
was to move to the attack  which she did
on the first opportunity. There was no
skirmishing, no beating about the bush,
where Stella was concerned. She aimed
straight at the mark.

** You're always going to Manor House,
Papa," coming down upon him as he was
starting for his daily expedition, ''or else the
Manor House comes here. I'm sure there's
something interesting going on, and you
know more about it than anybody else."

"Naturally, my dear child, a lawyer must
be in the confidence of his client  it is
a positive necessity; but such confidence
does not become a family possession, you
know. It is business."

"We don't care a fig for the business,"
said Stella ; " it is the family ghost we want
to make the acquaintance of. It is a shame
to keep things so close. Papa, when we're
all dying of curiosity, and can't get so
much as a crumb to keep us from starving."

"Abstinence from unwholesome food is
good for the mind as well as for the body,
my Stella, and I'm not sure that absolute
starvation is not better still. No, no ! "

he added, as she became more demonstrative
in her endeavours to force him
to speak ; *' don't come the modern Della
over me, and try to shave yom* old father's
conscience instead of his head. Clergymen,
doctors, and lawyers, are in honour
bound to keep the secrets of their penitents,
patients, and clients."

He was proof against all her blandishments
; she could wheedle nothing more out
of him  except an aggravating smile. He
locked his client's secrets in his own heart
and kept the key. If people will only trust
to time, it is wonderful what revelations
time will make if it is only let alone, and
allowed to work in its own silent, inexorable
way. No human effort can either retard or
hasten its progress. While we are looking
in despair on complications, knotty points,
and perplexing circumstances. Time slowly
turns his wheel, and lo ! the tangled skein is

all unravelled, and all who run may read
the things that have so perplexed us.

One bright morning, about a month after
Hugh's departure, Clarice stood at the
dining-room window reading one of those
delightful epistles that never failed to arrive
every morning  a kind of spiritual banquet
off which she feasted before she began the
day. There was a smile hovering about
her perfect lips, and a soft love-light shining
in her eyes, as she looked dreamily out
upon the landscape, lovelier now than in its
gorgeous summer dress, for the autumn
tints of variegated greens and browns and
gold were flung broadcast over the land, a
soft purple haze hung over the distant hills,
and the living sea lay hushed and grey in
the still morning air.

*sat your usual devotions, my child,"
exclaimed Mr. Fleming, coming into the
room in his serene elderly fashion. * Come,

if yon let my coffee get cold I shall confiscate
that precious piece of property on the
spot!"

Clarice obeyed his summons, and, after
the nsnal loving greeting, took her place
at the breakfast-table and gave him such
scraps of gossip as she considered public
property. While they were still enjoying
their little chit-chat, progressing slowly
through their sociable meal, the door was
flung open, and Jack hurried  no, not
hurried, Jack never hurried  strode into the
room. He looked haggard and tied, and
perhaps a little graver and sterner than
usual, and a trifle agitated for him.

' Jack ! my dear boy!" exclaimed Mr.
Fleming, rising from the table with outstretched
hand. Clarice rose, and instinctively,
though he grasped his uncle's hand,
his eyes met hers. Soul reads soul, perhaps,
quickly, as eye reads eye. The blood receded

from Clarice's cheek, the Hight faded
from her eyes. She tm-ned marble white
even to the lips, and her fresh young voice
sounded strange and hollow as she said 

*what is the matter, Jack? There is
something wrong ! and that something is

about 7716.''

AN UNEXPECTED MOVE

GO to your room, clear," said Jack, ** I
ayant a few words with my uncle ; we
will take you into the conference afterwards."


'* There is no afterwards," said Clarice,
with blanched, trembling lips. 'I must
hear all there is to hear now. Father, I
may stay ? "

Yes," he answered. '' What is it, Jack ?
Don't keep us in suspense."

 There's no time for suspense," said
Jack; '' he'll be here directly."

'' He ! Who ? " inquired Mr. Fleming.

**Lemaire," said Jack, shortly. * I
luckily got scent of his movements. He
took the mail-train from London last night
so did I ; we travelled down together, at
least by the same train. He has got a
shabby official-looking man with him ; he's
been a good deal about the Court of King's
Bench lately. They are walking, and
quickly too. I took the fly, and as I passed
the precious pair on the road he gave me a
low mocking bow, and laughed derisively.
He looks as though he meant business. I'm
afraid he's brewing a mess of hell-broth
somewhere."

*' We'll make him drink it, my boy, we'll
make him drink it ! " said the old man, ina
state of feverish excitement.  I'm glad
you hurried on to give us warning. We'll
get our guns in position ready to receive
him."

Jack scowled, and for the first time in his

life seemed disposed to take a gloomy view
of affairs.

' I don't know on what ground he means
to make his attack," he said. ' Windy
wordy warfare is easily dealt with ; you
may match cunning with cunning, strength
with strength. But if once the law stretches
out its arm and lifts its voice  well, there's
the ruh ! "

' We can shut our ears, be deaf and not
hear its voice," said Mr. Fleming ; " and as
for its arm, it must stretch to a tolerable
length if it means to reach us. Don't look
so scared, child," he added  and his voice
was almost harsh in its anxious, loving irritation
; it made his heart ache to see the
face that had lately been like a rose
blossoming with hope and joy, change with
such startling suddenness till it looked like
a white mask of terror   there's nothing
you need be afraid of."

VOL. III. 6

' You'll hide me somewhere ! " she exclaimed.
" You will not let him take me
away now ! "

No, no ! rest quite easy on that score,"
he answered, decidedly; and he, and Jack
too, hastened to soothe and cheer her.

As they were talking there was a sharp
ring at the bell.

 There they are ! " exclaimed Jack.
 You had better go to your room, Clarice,
unless you wish to be present at the interview
 though I don't think you'd care
about it."

** Ah, no ! " she answered, I don't want
to see him. Tm afraid."

afraid!" echoed Jack, "while toe are
with you ? "

* But don't you know," she answered, in
an awestruck voice, " there are people who
have a mysterious hidden power  they can
kill our consciousness and make us do

things against our will ! I'm afraid of
that," she added, shuddering spasmodically.
I'm afraid of what I can't see, always 
always."

A servant entered and brought in M.
Lemaire's card, supplemented by a request
for an immediate interview.

' Show him into the drawing-room. I'll
see him presently," was the message Mr.
Fleming returned.

'* Let me go first  let me go ! Jack,
please see me safely to my room."

She glanced timidly round and behind
her, and hurried away under faithful old
Jack's escort. He returned in a few
moments, and had a brief conversation with
his uncle before M. Lemaire was admitted.

'' We must act very warily here," he said
in conclusion, 'sand temporize, and try
and gain time  time is necessary for us.
And don't oppose the villain too violently."

** There is no scope for temporizing,
Jack," said the old man, mournfully  for he
thought he had washed his hands of Lemaire
for a time. *' He is fighting for the custody
of my child  his child. God knows what
he would do with her ; and I am determined,
let what may come, that he shall never
have her. I have the right on my side."
 " Not in the world's eyes, my dear
Uncle," exclaimed Jack, who always looked
with unprejudiced eyes on both sides of a
question ; no matter how strongly his own
interest and sympathy were enlisted, he
stood outside himself and regarded the
other fairly. * Morally, we know, and if
things could he clearly seen as they are, all
the world would acknowledge that you have
all the right ; but the law can only recognize
things that can be joved. Moral right
is often legal wrong. He would pose as an
outraged father  a touching position, sure

to appeal to public sympathy. You would
appear as  what ? as the illegal husband of
his wife ; as the man who detains his child
in order to secure her and her wealth for your
own disreputable, dissipated nephew  that
is the unflattering term they'd apply to me.
My dear Uncle, forgive my plain speaking,
but we must speak of things as they would
be presented to the world's eyes, not as they
really are in ours, in God's eyes, and the
eyes of truth and justice. Take my advice,
and, whatever happens, be cool and courteous
; it won't do to speak out your
thoughts and intentions too plainly. I'm
afraid he comes with the trump card in his
hands."

*' Good play will sometimes hold its own
against trumps ; bat we shall see," said Mr.
Fleming, as he rang the bell and desired
that the two gentlemen should be shown
into the room. x\nd then speedily entered

M. Lemaire, looking the picture of elderly
amiability. He was followed by a man
dressed in a seedy suit of black, with a
rather red, wrinkled, expressionless face, a
forehead like a cannon ball, with a scanty
fringe of red hair and sharp, deep-set eyes,
like lights twinkling at the end of a tunnel.
M. Lemaire glanced from Mr. Fleming to
Jack, and bowed with smiling affability;
neither spoke, but stiffly returned his silent
salutation. He was driven to speak first.

" T have to apologize  he ! he !  for my
intrusion," he said; 'rand doubly so for
intruding my friend, Mr. Plummer, upon
you. But as he represents my legal
adviser, I desire him to be a witness to
whatever passes between us."

'pray don't apologize for your legal
adviser's presence," rejoined Mr. Fleming,
inclining his head courteously ; "he is
welcome."

*' Glad to hear you say so, I'm sure. I
T\'as afraid you might consider us a Httle
de troj),'' answered M. Lemaiie, laughing
uneasily.

Mr. Fleming remained stern and silent,
resolved to say as little as possible, but
leave the chief part of the talking to the
other side.

 Perhaps it would be as well if you could
tell us, as briefly as possible, the business
that brought you here," said Jack, striking
the point promptly.

Ay, to be sm-e, young man," replied
M. Lemaire, with a condescending, impertinent
stare that made Jack's fingers itch
to knock him down. " I am sorry to be
obliged to mix business up with the affections,
but I am driven to do it. I have
already appealed to you for my rights as a
father  you refuse me with insults and recriminations
; it is not in human nature to

endure too much or too long. I have
always been a friend to you, Mr. Fleming.
Eemember, I spared you when I could have
instituted criminal proceedings against you
and yours!" he added, with suppressed
ferocity.

* To the case in point, sir  keep to that
and nothing else," said Mr. Fleming, with
cool dignity, determined not to be irritated
into the utterance of a hasty, ill-considered
word.

I am quite willing to keep to the casein
point," said M. Lemaire. ''If I hesitate,
it is only from considerations for your
feelings."

*' Please to leave my feelings out of the
question, and proceed with your business,"
replied Mr. Fleming.

"First, then, I demand a private interview
witch my daughter, whose feelings, I
have every reason to believe, have been

tampered with, and her innocence misled,
by the fraudulent misrepresentations you

and that scheming scoundrel there "

"No flights of imagination, please!"
exclaimed Jack, in his strong, clear voice,
*' and no irrelevant reference to me. I am
not a patient man, and rather apt to resent
an insult quickly. Stick to facts, and let
us know precisely why you have favoured us
with this visit."

I have already said that I first desire a
private interview with my daughter, with
no counteracting influence between us,"
replied Lemaire.

I am sorry that that is precisely
the one thing in which I cannot oblige
you," answered Mr. Fleming, courteously.
Clarice heard of your arrival, and at
once retired to her room. She declines to
receive you."

'By yom advice!" exclaimed M.
Lemaire, furiously.

* No, by lier own will. Purity has an
instinctive shrinking from contact with evil
things," rejoined Mr. Fleming.

' We shall see ! Plummer, hand Mr.
Fleming the writ of Habeas Corpus I You
are prepared to stand against me, hut
can you stand against that ? " he added,
triumphantly, as Plummer placed the writ
of Habeas Co7yus in the old man's
hand.

Jack emitted a sound from between his
lips like the suppressed whistle of a steam-engine
; but Mr. Fleming made no outward
sign of any inward tribulation. He leisurely
wiped his spectacles, put them on, and proceeded
to read the formidable document
through ; then he bent his head slightly ashe
said 

*' Yes, this seems to be correct enough, sofar
as I can judge. I am sorry you have
thought it necessary to carry things to this

extent. I presume you do not wish to take
any immediate action in this matter? "

' Dispatch is the soul of business," misquoted
]\I. Lemaire, roughly; ' and when
a thing has got to be done, it is as well todo
it and get it over  saves trouble, too, on
both sides. I'd advise you to send for
Clarice, and acquaint her at once with the
actual state of affairs."

' For God's sake, no I " exclaimed Mr.
Fleming, moved against his will. '' Give
us a little time for preparation ; it is necessary
both for her and me."

'you refuse, then, to comply with the
order of the court ? " said M. Lemaire.

Xo, I do not refuse," he answered ; and,
in spite of his efforts to control himself, it
was evident he suffered. " I only ask for a
little time. You can be in no hurry to
receive the child you have been content to
abandon all her life ! To me she has been

as my own child always. I am an old man,
and to take her from me is like tearing my
heart out. I must have time."

M. Lemaire looked exultant. He had
laid his hand upon the vulnerable spot, and
was able to strike home at last. The man
who all his life had kept on a high-level
plain so far above him, whose bitter scorn
had bitten him to the bone, was at his mercy
now ! He held him in his grip, and would
drain his heart's blood if he could. Still,
he wanted to keep up appearances ; he did
not desire to seem hard or merciless. He
glanced at Mr. Plummer as though for a
suggestion.

* It is natural that the gentleman should
desire a little time for consideration," returned
Mr. Plummer, answering the mute
appeal.

At the end of the week," said Mr.
Fleming, ' I will give you my decision.

either complying or refusing to comply with
this defiance."

x\ week  hum! "Well, I'm willing to
agree to that," said M. Lemaire, magnanimously,
' only I have one stipulation to
make, and that is that there shall be no
tricks played  no more philandering between
your precious nephew there and my
child."

*' You cur," muttered Jack, half rising,
' I could "

' Ay," interrupted M. Lemaire, with a
peculiarly imitating intonation of voice, ' I
dare say you could; but you'd better not  it
would only complicate matters, and I think
you'll have work enough to do without
that."

Mr. Fleming was anxious to bring the
interview to a close. All was said that
need be said, and he did not wish any
skirmishing to take place between Jack and

M. Lemaire, who lie knew would be only
too glad if he could tempt the younger man
to an ill-considered word or act that might
be twisted into a breach of the peace ; and
Jack's temper, especially just now, was not
warranted to keep under the stress of any
heavy temptation. He therefore made it
very evident to his unwelcome visitors that,
the business being ended, he should feel
obliged by their speedy departure. They
took the hint, and prepared to depart accordingly.
M. Lemake added a finishing
touch in his few last words 

* It is not worth while for me to return
to London until I can take my dear girl
with me. I shall therefore remain in
Penally until the week you have asked for
is up ; and as it is rather dull for an unoccupied
stranger, perhaps you would not
object to my amusing myself by sketching
this deliciously picturesque old mansion? "

*' Outside my gates, sir, you can do as
you please ; but I warn you against trespassing
within them," answered Mr. Fleming,
with uncompromising sternness.

So M. Lemaire departed, leaving Mr.
Fleming and Jack, in spite of their calm
seeming, half paralyzed by his unexpected
move. They looked in each other's faces fora
moment in troubled silence, as though each
was considering what word of hope or comfort
he could give to the other. The old
man looked as though he was so stunned by
grief and sm-prise as to be hardly able to
think or speak at all.

"Well!" exclaimed Jack, at last, ' they
are trying to bring things to a crisis with a
vengeance ! But don't be cast down. Uncle.
Never say die '  that's my motto ; and we
may foil them yet, but we must do nothing
in a hurry."

''No; v;e must do nothing in a hurry,"

said Mr Fleming, echoing the words reflectively,
though they seemed to have no
meaning to his ears. But,'' he added 
and a strange, resolute look came into his
eyes  *sone thing I am determined on, he
shall never take my poor darling from me !
No power on earth shall force me to give
her up to hin ! I would as soon submit
her to slow torture by fire and sword as to
him ! He would keep her gentle spirit on
the rack, and play upon her shattered nerves
with the cruelty of a fiend, till she died of
terror, and his greedy hand would grasp at
all he covets above her. grave."

* Don't give way to those ideas," said
Jack, cheeringly; ' pull yourself together
and face things bravely  they might be
worse."

** Things are never so bad but they might
be worse," said the old man, irritably.
** Instead of being hanged, one might be

drawn and quartered ; but that is no comfort
to him when the rope is round his
neck."

' Well, at any rate make up your mind
to one thing," said Jack; " we luonH give in
though I can't quite see a way through the
difficulty as yet. My thoughts are thrown
into such a state of confusion that I've got
no head to speak of at present."

'' I never thought he would dare to appeal
to the law"' observed Mr. Fleming.

"We generally reckon without our host
in these cases," said Jack. " I dare say he
discovered that he is only amenable to the
French law, and riot to the law of England,
for his little peccadilloes. That would
simplify matters for him considerably."

'' I must see Laurence at once. Jack.
We can take no step, decide on nothing, till
I have consulted him. I don't quite take
ni the legal aspect of this affairs He's as

VOL. III. 7

cunning as a weasel ; perhaps lie '11 find
some loophole for his to wriggle out of.
Have the dog-cart round, and we'll he off
at once."

' Not quite in such a hurry," said Jack.
' You must first see Clarice, and tell her, so
much as you think prudent, of the result of
the interview. Don't tell her the worst
you fear  ' Sufficient for the day is the evil
thereof '  only tell her to keep in the house ;
she must not go out without my escort or
yours."

' And we were so happy, so full of hope
this morning, my child and I," murmured
the old man, only half aloud. ' There is
something I should like to tell you, Jack,"
he added, after a momentary pause ; '' but
I don't know whether Clarice would like it.
Sooner or later you must know it, and I
can't conceive her motive for concealing
it from you now."

Jack mentally pricked up his ears, but
he only said 

 You can't measure motives by the rule
of three. You might as well try to weigh
the sunlight with a pair of butcher's scales.
However, if she doesn't want me to know
her secret, I don't want to hear. I'd as
soon pick a pocket as steal a woman's secret
against her will."

Mr. Fleming kept silence. '*' Perhaps,
after all," he thought, ' it would be best to
leave it to Clarice to tell him herself, in
her own way."

IN A FOG.

Lawyer and client sat alone in the
official sanctum of the latter, surrounded
hy all the silent paraphernalia of
the law : ponderous volumes imprisoning
the brain-work of centuries  the thoughts,
opinions, and judgments of men whose
lights have long since gone out, hut whose
labours still stand as beacon-lights to guide
the stumbling steps of their followers
through the labyrinths of the law, the
narrow, crooked ways, to where Justice
stands, with blinded eyes, holding her scales

even. Sometimes they miss the road, for
the legal sign-post cannot be fixed so
straight and square as to be plain to the
eyes of all men : they are apt to misread
the directions, and twist and turn, in and
out and round about, till they are lost ina
maze of doubts and queries ; and when
they have wrangled their way through their
manifold difficulties, they reach the feet of
Justice in a bespattered, bedraggled condition,
too befogged and blinded to recognize
her.

Well, beside these ancient volumes there
were nests of pigeon-holes overflowing with
dusty papers, and piles of official documents
labelled and tied with pink tape ; letters,
pamphlets, and scraps of all kinds were
scattered about  a very chaos of disorder it
seemed to strangers' eyes, but to the master
it had an order of its own  he could dive
down and pick up exactly what he wanted

from anywhere. In the midst of them all
Mr. Laurence was seated, like a gnome in
the midst of his mysteries. On the opposite
side of the table sat Mr. Fleming. They
had talked for a long time ; he had gone
over his grievance again and again, and
painted his fears and the pitfalls that beset
him in the darkest colours. Mr. Laurence
sat with bent brows ; he sympathized deeply
with the feelings of his client. But he had
no dealings with the emotions  they were
outside matters ; he must regard things
from a legal point of view, and concentrate
his thoughts on that only. A lawyer must
never let his heart run away with his head.
He had been quietly gathering the facts of
the case (in a social, friendly kind of way
they had talked matters over before, but
now things were serious, and came before
him in the way of business), and put them
in his mental digester ; and when he had

separated the chaff from the grain, he gave
Mr. Fleming the result of his cogitations.

' The case is encompassed with difficulties
on both sides  that is, if you carry out
your design. You may try  hut, frankly, I
fear join will fail."

You can surely advise me on some
course ? " said Mr. Fleming.

'' The simplest course to pursue, and the
only' one I can conscientiously advise, is
to obey the law" replied Mr. Lam-once.

And give up my child ? "

'eyes."

Impossible ! I will not do it ! " he rejoined,
decidedly.

'' Are you sure that your fears on her
account are not exaggerated ? " suggested
Mr. Laurence, who had always thought his
client was rather a monomaniac on this
subject.

Quite sure," replied Mr. Fleming, waving

his hand impatiently, intimating that
there was nothing more to be said about
that. ' Is there no way of my being allowed
to retain her by paying a fine ?  I don't care
how heavy."

''A fine is quite out of the question.
The legal Cerberus is not to be lured from
his post by that kind of sop in the pan. My
dear friend, it is best you should understand
things quite plainly : you have not a leg to
stand upon  the bad man here shows the
better cause. It is often so. If you refuse
to obey this writ of Habeas Corpus it will be
necessary for you to appear before the court,
and show good cause for your refusal."

I will do neither one thing nor the
other," replied Mr. Fleming, obstinately.
* I will not parade our private family
sorrows for the pleasure of the public. To
show cause why I refuse, I must dig up a
dead scandal, galvanize, and make it live,

with all its miserable details, in the world's
eyes ; submit to have my good name, her good
name, mauled and mangled in open court 
my very heart dragged out and dissected
before my very eyes ! And Clarice  why the
publicity, the shame of it would kill her !
for we who are most innocent would seem
most guilty. I know that. Well, if I
refuse to do either of these things, what
follows ? "

Why, if you refuse to comply with the
order of the law, you will be committed for
contempt of court," answered Mr. Laurence.

"And that means?" said Mr. Fleming,
interrogatively.

"Committal to jail," replied Mr. Laurence;
"and your committal to jail brings
about precisely that which you are anxious
to avoid. Yoic being out of the way, she
would naturally fall into M. Lemaire's
hands  there is nothing to prevent it, unless

you could manage to conceal lier in some
place of security. And that, I think, is beyond
your power ; he being once on your track
will keep to it with the tenacity of a bulldog."


Is there no alternative ? "

"None that I can see," replied Mr.
Laurence. " There are no intricate points
for discussion; it is all plain sailing."

And you have no comforting advice to
give me ? " pleaded Mr. Fleming.

''I wish I had," said Mr. Laurence,
heartily. " If I thought there was a chance
of success I would gladly take up the
cudgels and fight your battles, but I cannot
strike for certain failure. The only weapon
that might win your cause, you will not
have handled. Under these circumstances,
the only advice that I can conscientiously
give is that you submit to what the law
requires of you.

Mr. Fleming rose up with a heavy sigh.

Well, if that is the view you take of the
matter " he began.

'rit is the only practical view that can be
honestly taken," interrupted Mr. Laurence,
and I do not care to feed you with false
hopes."

'' Then since the law cannot help me, I
must look round and try and help myself.
I don't feel as if I had got quite to the end
of my resources yet ; but we shall see.
Dine with us to-night, will you ? My
affairs are in such a tangled state I want
them set right ; and, even, I may have something
more to tell you when night comes."

Slowly, and buried in deep reflection, Mr.
Fleming went on his way homeward. He
who as a rule was so keenly alive to the
beauties of nature, was blind and deaf to her
attractions now ; she seemed so hard, cold,
and unsympathetic with his mood to-day.

The birds were twittering and hopping
about as blithe as ever, and overhead the
great snn was shining, filtering his bright
rays through the autumn-tinted trees, and
dancing in golden shadows at his feet ; the
sea was creeping inland, with rippling,
stealthy murmurs, and the fresh sun-laden
air seemed to come straight down from
heaven, so sweet and pure it was ! But the
profound calm and beauty of the outer
world jarred upon his troubled spirit. It is
a mistake to say that nature sympathizes
with our moods  she does nothing of the
kind. When we are sick and sorrowful, our
hearts torn and distracted by those manifold
agonies which mar this life of ours, the
face of nature in her serene, beautiful calm,
far from soothing or calming, irritates and
makes us mad, the contrast between her
irresponsive loveliness and our stormy griefs
is so great.

Arrived at the Manor House, Mr. Fleming
found Jack pacing to and fro on the terrace
walk, impatiently awaiting him. Having
left his uncle at Mr. Laurence's office, Jack
had strolled through the village on the lookout
for any scraps of information he might
be able to pick up respecting M. Lemaire's
movements. He appeared to have taken
up his abode at the little inn there, ' The
Puss in Boots," the solitary house of entertainment
the place afforded. This much he
learned from Ben, who, through Mr. Fleming's
good offices, had got employment there,
had given up poaching, and seemed on the
road to his ancient respectability.

I've seen this gent afore," said Ben,
confidentially. " It was him that was hurt
in the accident, and took up to the Manor
House to be nursed. I know'd him again,
though he was covered wi' blood then.
But I wasn't at ' Tel Kebber ' for nothing ;

I'm used to looking at a man's face through
a mask of gore."

'well, Ben' answered Jack, "I hope
you'll find him a profitable visitor ; it isn't
often a man of his kind comes here for
entertainment."

He don't always get what he comes
for," grinned Ben, " and sometimes he gets
a sight more. This un's too fond of asking
questions  not as I care about that, so
long as I has the answering on 'em ! " and
Ben chuckled as though he were choking
over a capital joke, and winked so violently
as though he was trying to wink his eyelids
off.

Jack had the faculty of getting information
without the trouble of asking questions.
By a few adroit observations he managed to
learn all he desired to know, and he very
soon knew all that Ben had got to tell ; it
wasn't much on this occasion.

' He's going up to the Rectory this afternoon,"
said Ben : '' he says it's a Christian's
duty ; and t'other one's going to London by
the afternoon train, but he's coming back
at the end of the week."

The following Tuesday was the limit of
the time allowed to Mr. Fleming for consideration.


** Now I've told you my news," said Jack,
"just empty your budget. What says the
legal light of Penally?"

Although he spoke lightly, he was evidently
anxious and ill at ease. He listened
in attentive silence, never once interrupting
by a question or remark, while Mr. Fleming
gave him a verbatim account of his interview
with Mr. Laurence and its result.

' So you see. Jack," he added, in conclusion,
'* we can expect no help from the law.
Everything there is dead against us. Something
must be done ; but what can be done ?

Think, Jack ; you have more wit than I, for
whichever way I turn, it seems I am running
my head against a brick wall."

'rand at the present moment that same
brick wall seems to encompass my senses
too," rejoined Jack. '' It certainly is a
gloomy look-out at present. But don't lose
heart, Uncle ; never give up the game till
you are fairly beaten out of the field, and,
like Samson, are shorn of the last lock of
your strength. I have faith in Providence,
and believe that in the eleventh hour some
Divine inspiration will come to us."

Divine inspiration cannot divert the law
from its course," replied the old man, testily,
'rand this Christian Shy lock will have his
pound of flesh."

"But not one drop of blood," answered
Jack, quoting Portia's words almost unconsciously.


Blood ! " echoed a voice that made them

both start, as Clarice, white as a sheet,
glided in between them. "Why are you
talking of blood ? is anybody killed ? Blood !
I used to dream of it once ; blood red 
red everywhere ! But why do you talk of
of it now," she added, raising her voice,
'' when I had almost forgotten ? "

Don't look so scared, Clary dear," Jack
answered, cheerfully ; "it was only a quotation
from Shakespeare, nothing more."

And fou can quote Shakespeare to-day ! "
exclaimed Clarice. '' Nero fiddled when
Rome was burning, and you -quote Shakespeare
when our hearts are all on fire !
Oh, Jack ! you never think  you never
care."

Her scathing look and tone of reproach
hurt him to the quick, and sent the colour
flying into his face. It was hard to be misjudged,
and by her. He said no word in
self-justification  it was his life-long habit

VOL. III. 8

to be patient with Clarice ; and she glanced
from him to Mr. Fleming, saying 

* You have been to Mr. Laurence, father ?
Well, what does he say ? Don't keep mein
the dark. I'm stronger now ; tell me
the worst."

There is nothing settled, my dear child,"
he answered, with an appearance of content
he was far from feeling, determined to fight
off all anxiety as far as possible from her,
that his own forebodings should not darken
her mind, until  well, if they were realized
that would be time enough ; no need for her
to taste the bitter anticipation of evil 
enough when the evil came. ' I hope there
will be no worst," he added; "under good
management things may be brought to a
satisfactory conclusion. You know we have
six days for deliberation."

She did not know at the end of that six
days what the alternative would be. They
had not told her that.

Six days," she echoed, dreamily. ' Yes ;
many things may happen in six days."

' Don't you trouble about that," exclaimed
Jack, cheerfully. " You know we have both,
taken an oar in that boat, and never fear
but we shall pull straight. It is no use to
trouble you with all the ins and outs of
business. When it is all rolled out straight
and smooth, it will be quite time enough
for you to take a bird's-eye view. Now
come and take a turn in the garden ; you
are as white as a snowdrop. Nothing like
fresh air as a cure for pale cheeks."

Clarice crossed swiftly to Mr. Fleming's,
side, laid her hand upon his arm, and looked
inquiringly in his face, as she said 

"Does he know? Have you told him
about Hugh ? "

"No," he answered next, for it was
evident that the memory of Hugh had
deadened her to the sense of her owen peril

' I'll come, Jack," she said. ' I want to
talk to you."

She and Jack passed out ito the garden.
Mr. Fleming watched them curiously as
they paced to and fro. He knew well
enough what it was she wanted to talk to
Jack about, and half regretted that he had
not in some way prepared him for the communication.
He was sorry for his boy, and
wondered how he would take it. Meanwhile
Clarice told her simple love-story in
the simplest fashion. She took no roundabout
way, but went straight to the point,
which was the best way in dealing with one
of Jack's nature. At first she felt some
little embarrassment in speaking of the man
she loved to the man who loved her. She
feared, too, that Jack would be hot and
angry; and a harsh word from him just
now would have fallen upon her like a blow.
But Jack was generous, and made the task

easy. Whatever he felt, he made no sign,
bnt paced np and down by her side with
closed hips and eyes cast down. In his
supreme tenderness for her, he forgot himself.
Seems how silent he was, she kept
silent herself for a time, waiting for him to
speak. Presently she said 

'' Won't yon speak to me. Jack ? Do say
something, please. Are you angry ? "

He raised his head then, and his eyes
met hers with such a kindly gaze her fears
took flight.

'angry I"  he echoed her last word  
because another man is luckier than I ?
No ; but of course  -I  feel  " He kept
back the strong man s sigh that struggled to
get loose ; but he would not pain her with
the sight of his pain. He added, with a
ghastly kind of smile, '' And I can't say
much in the way of congratulation yet. I
shall presently ; for the moment I am rather
taken by surprise

*' I am glad you take it so, Jack; I
wanted to know, and yet I was afraid to
tell you."

i am sorry yon should ever feel afraid
to tell me anything' said Jack. ' Don't
you know that when we love people we
think more of their happiness than our
own ? It is  poor love that thinks only
of self."

*you are a good man," said Clarice,
emphatically  " better than I thought ; and
you'll be friends with Hugh ? "

I hope so, certainly, by and by,"
answered Jack ; ' but I am only human,
and when a fellow is thirsty, and sees
another man drain the cup he has been
reaching for all his life  well, you can't expect
him to grasp the hand of good-fellowship
over it. You might as well ask a fellow
to dance at his own funeral ! It will be all
right by and by. I dare say we shall love

one another like brothers," lie added, grimly;
but we've got some stormy waters to pull
through first."

'' Jack, Jack ! " exclaimed Mr. Fleming,
calling from the study window in excited
tones, " I've got an idea ! "

Hold it fast till I come ! " answered
Jack, as, with a few apologetic words to
Clarice, he strode across the lawn.  Now
for the idea, Uncle. What is it worth ? "
 'everything!" he answered, looking
eagerly in Jack's face. Where's the Fire

She lies at Plymouth at present.
Why ? "

*' Is she ready for a cruise ? "

'' Not exactly." A sudden light seemed
to break upon him as he added, '' I see
what you're driving at. You want to take
Clarice for a long cruise out of the way of
everything and everybody. A splendid

idea ! I wonder we never thought of it
before."

 How long before you can bring her round
ready for sea ? " exclaimed Mr. Fleming,
feverishly excited.

 If I put on pressure," answered Jack,
reflectively, ' three or four days might
manage it. I'll telegraph to my skipper at
once, and start myself by the first train to
superintend, and hurry things on."

' Is she good for a long cruise ? " inquired
Mr. Fleming, anxiously.

'' She's good for anything but the Polar
Seas," he answered. " We must hurry up
for the present, and provision her as well as
we can. We can take in stores on our way
to  wherever you want to go."

So once more in the game of human life,
human endeavour sat down to play against
fate.

MR. FLEMING SEES HIS WAY.

DURING the next few days Mr. Fleming
was very much occupied in arranging
his affairs. There was so much to be done,
so much to be thought of. He was
harassed and troubled about many things.
Quite apart from the legal transactions, as
things now stood with Clarice they necessitated
a complete change in the disposition
of his property. Hoping almost against hope
until now that the hope was virtually dead
and buried, he had looked for the fulfilment,
even in the distant future, of his darling

scheme, and had settled the whole of his
property, over which he had supreme control,
on Jack and Clarice jointly. But her wilful
affections having gone so entirely in an
opposite direction, rendered the old will
worthless ; things had to be reconsidered,
and a new will made wherein each would
be equally benefited, but benefited separately.
Mr. Laurence was closeted with
him many hours of every day.

Besides the important legal business
under consideration, the household and domestic
concerns demanded careful thought
in their arrangement. He intended to go
for a long cruise, and consequently to be
absent for an indefinite time. The Manor
House was to be left in charge of his
confidential servant, Hans Hausmann, and
things were to go on as usual, the house
being always kept in readiness for their
return at a few hours' notice. He did not

take the household into his confidence respecting
his movements, but left them in a
state of vague uncertainty, with the exception
of Katrina; she, and she only, knew the
exact state of affairs, and it was decided
that she was to accompany them on their
cruise  for Katrina was a necessity to
Clarice. Mr. Laurence, who had Mr.
Fleming's entire and perfect confidence,
was to he left in charge of all financial
arrangements, and act as general agent or
vicegerent, on whom devolved all authority
during the absence of the family.

Clarice did not seem to take over-kindly
to the idea of a long cnrise ; she said
nothing to oppose it, but received the communication
without comment or remark.
Of course the arrangements had to be made
with the strictest privacy, for if the slightest
suspicion of his contemplated movements
should circulate through the village it would

no doubt reach M. Lemaire's ears, and utter
failure and complete discomfiture would bethe
result. Mr. Fleming and Katrina were
at work night and day, hurrying on the
arrangements and making every preparation
in order that they might embark as soon as
the Firefly made her appearance.

It was now Friday, and Jack had written
to say that he would have the yacht round
some time on Saturday ; and he proposed
that they should come aboard at daybreak
on Sunday, and sail forthwith. He reminded
Clarice to have her favourite books,
her music, and any knickknacks she liked
to have about her, adding 

'Forl hope we shall enjoy our 'home
upon the water' for a few months, and we'll
have a sail among the beautiful ' Greek
Isles' which you have so often longed to
see."

She was silent for a moment after reading

Jack's letter ; then looked very gravely in
Mr. Fleming's face as she said 

'' Father dear, I don't seem to care so
much for the Greek Isles now ; and I don't
want to go for a long cruise at all. A trip
for a few days would he pleasant enough,
but  months ! And I don't see the necessity
for all this fuss  sending my books and
music aboard and all that ; it doesn't seem
worth while."

Clarice ! you surprise me when you talk
like that!" exclaimed Mr. Fleming, absolutely
bewildered. " Why, you must have
heard us talking over the matter, and preparing
for the cruise for three days past."

"I haven't taken much notice, and I
thought it was only for a short trip  indeed
I don't think I've really thought of it at all.
I can't go, father dear ! I  I've been writing
to Hugh, and I've told him everything,
because I think it is right that he should

know. I expect he will be here next week ;
I have asked him to come."

Mr. Fleming regretted now that he had
not followed Jack's advice and taken her
into the fullest confidence from the first ; but
while letting her know a part, he had kept
her in ignorance of the whole truth, and
of the most important part of it. Her
inveiglement to London, and the events
that followed it, had already given her a
great shock (though she had carried herself
bravely, and seemed to feel it less than she
really did, lest her anxieties might heighten
his trouble), and in order to spare her delicate
organization from another and still
more severe shock he had covered up the
skeleton  tried to hide it from her sight ;
and if he could only get her away from
Penally, she might remain unconscious of
the peril in which she had stood. If things
came to the worst, and she were forced into

the position she had dreaded all her life,
with a horror that had been horn with her
well, they must abide by fate : he could
see no farther  all beyond was a blank.
But by getting her to sea, beyond the reach
of the law, for the last year of her minority,
he hoped to avoid the calamity he had
fought against, by her mother's last desire,
fi'om the hour her mother had died.

It would be too hard, too terrible, to fail
now that they were fast nearing the end of
their perplexities. If she were only of age
once her own mistress, in possession of
her inheritance, beyond the reach of M.
Lemaii-e's clutches  well, they might punish
him for evading the law in any way they
pleased. For himself he cared not a hg  it
was only of her he thought, for her he cared
at aU. Now she seemed to oppose the only
plan that would save her! But, "Poor
child, she does not know ! " he thought, as

lie gazed with compassionate affection on
her face. But she must be told ; the time
had come when it was imperative she
should know precisely the strait in which
she stood  there was no question about that.
If she were left in ignorance she might
checkmate them  miss all by a single move
at the last moment ! He spoke to her very
gently, very tenderly.

My darling child," he said, 'you knows
how it pains me to cross the slightest wish
of yours, and there is no time to argue or
discuss the subject. You must go on this
protracted cruise ; it is the only means of
saving you from him. My darling, listen :
so long as I had only Lemaire to fight
against, I was strong enough for the battle ;
but he has done what I never thought he
would have dared to do  he has called in
the aid of the law, and the law demands
that I give you into his keeping, or appear

at the bar and show good cause why I
refuse to do so ! "

* But you will not give me up I  you will
not? " she gasped, in terror.

By God's help, no I " he answered,
emphatically.

Then, while I have you and Jack, what
is there to fear?" she inquired, somewhat
reassured. " I know lie came the other
day, and you had a long interview with him
and sent him away ! "

' Ay, but  he has not gone," replied
Mr. Fleming, giving her the information
regretfully, and getting over the ground as
quickly as he could. ''He is still in the
village  waiting  do you understand, darling
?  waiting the week that he has given
me for consideration. Then, if I still refuse,
they have the right to arrest me and put
me in jail for contempt of court ! And you
alone in the world, what would become

VOL. III. 9

of you ?  what ? You must fall into his
hands  there is no help for it ! But, for
God's sake, don't look so scared ! Clarice !
Clarice ! don't be afraid  keep up your
courage  get your things together  we sail
on Sunday at daybreak  only follow my
advice  keep calm  be mistress of yourself
and once at sea  with me and Jack  you
will be safe  safe ! "

She answered nothing, made no comment,
no remark, only stared at him with wide-open
eyes void of all expression, and a whiteface
that looked like a mask of marble. He
shook her gently by the shoulder, adding 

** Clarice, child, rouse yourself! You
must not give way and lose your grip at
this the eleventh hour. Think, you have
only another day to wait, and all will be
well!"

A moment's pause, then she came close
to him, laid her hand upon his arm, looked

Vs'ith concentrated, eager anxiety in his face
as she said, in a curdling whisper 

' Will they come in the night, do you
think, and take me away while the house is
quiet and everybody is asleep ? They maybe
hiding somewhere now ! "

She clung to him shuddering, and glanced
furtively round with a strange, fitful light
m her eyes.

' Tut, tut, my child," he answered, soothingly,
as he stroked her golden hair, 'there's
no fear of force or violence being used. If
they claim you at all, it will be with all
formality and in the open day ; but there is
no cause for anxiety till after Tuesday next 
so much grace they have given me. Only
be patient and calm, and all will be well.
The way is clear before us ; we have nothing
to fear if you will only be brave."

*'ril try  yes, I'll try," she murmured,
folding her hands helplessly together, with

the same strange light in her eyes. She
glanced fearfully round as though she expected
some terrible thing would spring out
upon her. Half-stunned, half-paralyzed, she
seemed outwardly  though within her very
soul was torn and distracted, her every sense
convulsively shaken. But she made no
sigh ; she only looked as though she had
been frightened and frozen into a dead
calm.

Mr. Fleming talked to her soothingly and
cheeringly, and presently comforted himself
with the idea that he sent her away calm
and reasonable, having received his information
more quietly and sensibly than he had
hoped for. He had feared an outbreak of
the old terrified excitement, only intensity
find by the present strait.

In the afternoon Mr. Laurence was there
as usual, and, in the course of conversation,
Mr. Fleming reproached himself for having

in one particular instance stood in the way
of Clarice's interests.

 If I could only have foreseen how things
would turn out," he said, ''I would have
yielded to Hugh Spencer's suggestion. He
is a fine, bold young fellow, and proposed
that he should get a special license and
marry Clarice with the slightest possible
delay."

Don't reproach yourself on that score,
tiny hind," exclaimed Mr. Laurence.
*' Young Spencer's idea couldn't have been
carried out. You wouldn't commit perjury
and it is impossible that Miss Lemaire,
being under age, could marry without her
lather's consent ; so pray make your mind
easy on that point."

On the next day Clarice did not appear at
the breakfast-table. Katrina presented herself
instead of her young mistress. Mr.
remind: at once saw that there was something

wrong. The heart recognizes the
presence of evil before the tongue has time
to tell or the ears to hear it.

*' What is it, Katrina ? " he inquired,
anxiously. 

*swell, sir, I hardly know how to tell
you," she answered. '' Miss Clarice has
had one of her old attacks. I hoped she
had outgrown them, for it is six years since
she had the last''

* Tell me precisely what has occurred,"
said Mr. Mewing. ' Come, sit down,
Katrina; you are a sensible woman, I
know, and don't exaggerate things. Come,
begin at the beginning."

' Well, sir, she was very quiet all yesterday
; I could not get her to talk at all. If
I spoke she wouldn't answer ; she did not
seem to hear me. She seemed nervous,
restless, and uncomfortable, and before she
went to bed insisted on my getting a light

and going over the house, and went peeping
into places where she never thought of going
before. She said nothing, only seemed
suspicious ; I could not make it out. However,
I got her to bed at last, and waited
till she was asleep, when I went to bed
myself; but it must have been about two
o'clock, I think, when I heard my door open
very quietly. I started up, and a white
figure came gliding into the room, with eyes
wide open in a fixed stare. It was Miss
Clarice, but not a bit like herself  she was
like the ghost of her own poor, dear mother !
She stared at me as if she didn't know me,
and passed her hand lightly over my face
and muttered to herself  though I couldn't
understand what she was muttering ; then
she went out of the room. I followed her,
and she went down to your study door;
there she stood a full minute listening, and
fidgeted with the handle of the door, but

did not go in. Then she went back to her
room, and laid down with her eyes still open
and her lips moving. I sat down by her
pillow very quietly so as not to startle her,
and never left her for the rest of the night.
She lay for a long time moaning and tossing
uneasily. She is sleeping quietly now ; but
I am worried, sir  -I own I am very much
worried about Miss Clarice."

"I do not think there is anything particularly
alarming in the recurrence of this
sleep-walking attack," began Mr. Fleming,
who had listened to her attentively ; when
she interrupted him, saying 

' If you had seen her face, sir ; if you had
only seen her face ! It freezes mo only to
think of it. She looked like my poor lady
in her last illness."

* Poor child ! poor child ! Of course she
is suffering hom severe mental disturbance
jusfc now," said Mr. Fleming, tenderly and

thoughtfully. " That is only natural considering
the circumstances ; and I am not
surprised it should take the old form  it
will pass away, it will pass away! You
must have observed how greatly she has
improved since  well, since this attachment
between her and young Spencer ; and how
calmly she has carried herself through these
harassing excitements, which at one time
would have brought on some terrible crisis.
This sleep-walking recurrence that seems to
make jjou anxious does not alarm me in the
least. It is better that her troubled spirit
should take that quiescent, though certainly
not pleasant, form, than she should suffer
from the old nerve-trouble, whether of the
tenable excitement or depression, which we
have so much reason to dread. No, I feel
as though the sun was shining somewhere
behind these clouds, Katrina, and all will be
well with us  well with all of us  soon.

Tell me when Clarice wakes ; L will see her,
and judge for myself."

So opened the morning of that most
eventful day.

THE LAST NIGHT.

ABOUT noon, much to Katrina's surprise
and Mr. Fleeting's satisfaction, Clarice
awoke seemingly quite herself, arose, dressed
and made her appearance at the luncheon-table
Yith many apologies for being such a
sluggard. '' She could not tell how it was
she had slept so long."

* Perhaps you had a bad night, my child ? "
the old man observed, greeting her with a
fond caress, and anxious to learn if any
idea, any dream-memory, lingered in her
mind of the last night's doings.

*not at all," she answered; *' and, a
wonder for me, I have had quite a sound
sleep all night. I don't know when I have
slept so soundly ; though I don't look like
it  see these black circles round my eyes !
And somehow I feel tired  so tired, as
though I had been bruised and b-eaten."

It was quite true ; she looked unusually
haggard and worn, as though she had kept
an anxious vigil, rather than passed a night
of deep slumber.

As the minutes and hours rolled on she
paced aimlessly up and down the room,
looking restlessly out of the window, manifested
a feverish anxiety to get aboard
the yacht, and kept inquiring every five
minutes 

*has the Firefly arrived yet, father dear? "
Isn't it late ? Can anything have happened
to it ? Surely it ought to be here by this
time  it is nearly three o'clock ! "

'' Don't 'ony yourself, dear cliilcl," lie
answered, seeming far more content and at
rest than lie really felt. '' I don't expect it
till quite late in the afternoon. Perhaps
Jack may think it most prudent not to come
into Penally till after dusk. Immediately
they arrive Jack will come ashore and hiring
us the news himself. Meanwhile, have you
got all your preparations made ? "

She looked at him as though rather bewildered
by the question.

I ! " she exclaimed. '' No, I have done
nothing, Katrina knows."

''A}', Katrina!" echoed the old man;
*' I don't know what we should do without
her. There are so many odds and ends to
think of; and I don't want there to be any
confusion at the last moment. We must
all rest well to-night, and be up at daybreak,
and start quietly while the rest of
the world is sleeping. There, there, keep

quiet, child ! there is nothing for you to be
anxious about  nothing at all."

< Why, why will things be so contrary!"
exclaimed. Clarice, as though struck by a
sudden access of thought. '' When, father
dear, when shall I see Hugh  my Hugh,
again ? Ah, why did you send him away ?
If he were here ! if he were only here he
could save me from all this  I know he
could ! "

* My dear Clarice," replied Mr. Fleming,
glancing at her in some surprise, ** I have
explained everything to you already. What
could Hugh Spencer do for you ? We are
pursuing the only Hne of action that is open
to us  doing the only thing that can be
done with due regard to yoit7' safety. In
every move we make we are thinking of you,
-and only of you. Can't you see that ? "

She answered nothing, but resumed her
restless, polar-bearish pacing to and fro in

the room. Presently she began laughing
Tery softly to herself. She took no notice
of anybody or of anything, as the servants
came in and out about their business, and
once or twice Katrina entered to make some
inquiry of her young mistress.

Mr. Fleming was busily engaged looking
over and generally destroying a mass of
correspondence and miscellaneous collection
of papers, which had been allowed
to accumulate during the last few months.
He glanced at Clarice a little impatiently
once or twice ; at last he said 

Clarice, my child, can't you sit still
for a few minutes ? My nerves are rather
unstrung, and you fidget me with that
restless pacing to and fro."

"If you want me to sit still," she
answered, "you must tie me down with
ropes. I couldn't possibly sit still else. I
must march up and down, keeping time with

my own thoughts." Then, acting in direct
contradiction to her words, she stood
suddenly still, laid her hand upon his
shoulder, and looked straight into his eyes
as she said, ** Do you know, dad darling,
such a strange thought strikes me. Suppose
all this talk and fluster is only a rise  a
plan to separate me from Hugh ! "

'\M.j God ! " exclaimed Mr. Fleming,
staring at her as though for the moment he
could scarcely take in the full meaning of
her words. * Is it possible ! tjoic, Clarice,
the one care, the one object of my whole
life's devotion ?/o?6 suspect one of false
dealing ! treachery to you ! My God ! this
is the cruellest blow of all ! Child, you
have stung me to the heart ! "

His pained accents, the grieved expression
of his face, recalled her to herself.
She flung her arms about his neck.

*' Dad darling," she exclaimed,  forgive

me ! forgive me ! I didn't mean it  how could
I ? The thought flashed through my train
and tripped off my tongue before I even
knew it was there I I couldn't help it ! but
I  I myself  never thought such a thing !
How could I  your own Clarice ! when I
know all you are  all you have always been
to me ! " She burst into a fit of hysterical
weeping and half-incoherent self-reproaches,
and grew so agitated, that he turned his
thoughts from his own aggrieved feelings
and used his best endeavours to calm her.

' There, there, my child," he said, fondling
her golden head ; " don't cry, don't be
unhappy  I know you didn't mean it. I
am sure of that  and  it only hurt me for a
moment  it is all over now, and forgotten."

Although he spoke so pressingly to her,
and took great pains to reconcile her to
herself, yet the mere fact that such a
suspicion could even ' flash through her

VOL. m. 10

brain " hurfc him more than he cared to
confess, even to himself ; but his chief
object being to keep her free from excitement,
and get her away quietly in the
morning, he drifted away from the subject
as quickly as possible, and tried to occupy
her thoughts and her hands too in assisting
him in his final arrangements. He sent
her on expeditions to gather sundry trifles
together from different parts of the house,
and tie them up and label them as they
were packed in boxes, ready to be sent for
safe custody to his London solicitors.

About six o'clock Jack put in an appearance.
He had brought the yacht round,
and left it anchored in a lonely little cove
about half a mile off, so that it might lie
unobserved and out of sight of the village.
They had been very much pressed for time.
Jack said, but everything had been done to
make the vessel comfortable so far as it was.

possible ; but he suggested that Katnna
shoukl go clown at once, carrying any little
knick-knackeries with her to make Clarice's
cabin comfortable, and ready for her to
settle down in cosily in the morning. They
could all rough it, and take their own time
to make themselves comfortable. His only
anxiety Alas for her. The more formidable
part of the luggage was to be sent down
under cover of the night.

'may not I go down with Katrina?"
asked Clarice; ''I should like to very much.
I want to get away fiom the house ; I want
to sleep aboard the yacht to-night."

''I am afraid that is impossible, dear,"
answered Jack; '* things are all at sixes and
sevens at present. Katrina will have hard
work to get things ship-shape by the
morning."

'- 1 don't care about things being at sixes
at sevens," urged Clarice ; ''I don't care

about anything. I only long to get out oi
this house ; I don't want to sleep here
another night."

Why ? What fancy is this ? " said Jack,
smiling good-naturedly.

' It is no fancy at all," answered Clarice,
' and I can't tell you why ; if I did, you
would only laugh, and I hate being laughed
at. And  and I may go with Katrina?
Jack, dear old Jack, say I may go  for
indeed I must, I must I "

He framed her upturned face in his two
hands, and looked with wistful tenderness
on it as he said 

' I cannot bear to cross even a fancy of
yours, Clarice, but what you ask is ivijyos-
sihle ; the cabins are not yet in order, the
men all busy. Your appearance so long
before you are expected would throw everything
out of gear. Besides, we want you at
home to make our last evening in the old
home cheerful ! "

However, there was not much time or
opportunity for the exercise of '' cheerful
sociability." Dr. Parkes paid them a long
visit in the early evening, and Mr. Laurence
dined there, and remained until quite late
at night. Jack, too, was so occupied with
his uncle and Mr. Laurence in the study 
whither they retired immediately after
dinner  that he had no time to bestow on
Clarice. Jack had escorted and seen
Katrina aboard the Firefly as soon as possible
after his arrival. Clarice missed her
sadly, and, being left to herself, wandered
aimlessly about the house, that already
began to assume a lonely, deserted look,
dismantled as it was of its pretty household
gods. Then she went into the drawing-room,
and stepped out through the French windows
on to the terraced walk outside, and then
paced up and down, alone now, where she
and Hugh had paced together on that

last evening when lie had said ' Goodbye."


Now and again she passed by the study
windows and looked in. It was a lovely
starlit night, and, though the autumn was
advancing with rapid strides, the windows
were wide open, and the air blew in fresh
and balmy from the sea. The three gentlemen
were busily engaged  now bending
with corrugated brows over various documents
; then talking earnestly, pen in hand,
as though discussing certain points. They
were so much occupied that they took no
notice of the white figure that now and
again passed by the open window  they did
not even seem to observe her. Once, as
she sauntered slowly past, she caught the
sound of her own name, coupled with that of
Hugh Spencer, and Jack's voice raised rather
louder than usual, and as though in protest
against some proposition of his uncle's. Fora

second she \Yas half tempted to linger, but
vith natural delicacy she shrank from playing
the eavesdi'opper, and, hurrying past,
put herself in the way of temptation no
more.

She returned to the drawing-room, sat
down at the piano, and let her fingers wander
idly over the keys. Without thought, without
reflection, she played on  played without
knowing what she was playing  no
sonata, no regular set piece. She improvised
as she went along, and drew forth a
series of weird sounds, as though the ghosts
of departed melodies were hungering within,
revealing their haunting presence at the
touch of a mistress hand.

Presently she commenced singing softly
to herself  no regular, consecutive verse, but
snatches of such music as she and Hugh
had sung together during that brief happy
time. She took no note of time, and did

not know how long she had been playing,
when she heard the voice of Mr. Laurence
as he crossed the hall, exchanging a few
parting words as he left the house. In
another moment Mr. Fleming came into
the drawing-room.

''My dear child," he said, 'ris it not
almost time you went to bed ? It is after
ten o'clock, and you know you must be up
at daybreak."

She rose up obediently, and slowly closed
the piano. As she did so she stooped down
and kissed the ivory keys with her lips,
whispering 

Good-bye. Keep all your music till I
come back."

Good-night, dad darling," she added, as
she lifted her face for the good-night kiss.
I feel so strange, so drowsy  I shall be
glad to get to bed. Kiss me again, dear,
and say ' God bless you ! ' "

' God bless you, now and always, my
own I ' he answered fervently as he embraced
her again. ' Sleep well, and rise
like my own bonnie bird in the morning! "

He lighted her candle, and watched her
as she slowly went up the stairs, the light
flickering on the wall, her distorted shadowlike
a stealthy phantom, creeping after her.

Jack put his head out of the study door
and wished her a cheery " Good-night."
She paused as she reached the first landing,
and nodded and smiled a parting salutation
to them both.

The old man's kind eyes clung to her till
the very flutter of her skirts were out of
sight. Then, with a sigh, he turned away,
re-entered the study and closed the door.

*****

The morning broke calm and lovely ;
there was scarcely a ripple on the face of
the still grey sea. The great red sun rose

from its watery bed, loosened its sheaf of
golden lances, and with lavish generosity
Hung them earthward, laden with the sweet
breath of the early morning.

The old Manor House looked lonelier and
greyer than ever ; the mists of the night
seemed to cling about it, as though loth to
be dispelled by the opening day. The gardeners,
going to their work before the rest
of the world was alive, observed that the
study window was open  a most unusual
occurrence. Guided by natural curiosity,
they crept quietly up and looked in. What
did they see ? The candles had burnt low
in their sockets, their tiny blue flames, flickering
and sputtering, pale in the glare of the
sun ! One long golden ray struck straight in
like a finger of light, and touched an old grey
head that was bent forward and rested on
the table; the hands fell listlessly by his
side, and the grey head was matted and

wet, aud dabbled in a pool of his red lifeblood
!

This was all that was left of Mr. Fleming.
He had been shot through the brain.

THE SAIL ON THE Horizon.

Thrill of horror and consternation
ran through the household when the
ghastly catastrophe was made known to
them. There was a general rushing to and
fro  everybody calling on somebody else todo
something, and nobody knowing what
ought to be done. Nobody liked to touch
him  it. They stood around, whispering,
wondering, and wringing their hands. At
last Hans Hausmann came to his senses,
and took temporary command.

* Where's Mr. Swayne and Miss Clarice ?
Has any one told them ? "

No ; nobody could bear to be the first to
carry the terrible news to those who loved
him.

*' I'll gc  they've got to know it," said
Hans, gloomily ; and he went upstairs.

He was some time absent. He returned
with a white, affrighted look, as though
even a worse horror had passed before his
mental vision.

' Mr. Swayne is not in his room  he has
not been to bed at all ; and Miss Clarice is
nowhere to be found ! "

In the midst of the wonder and the horror,
the police, who had been at once communicated
with, appeared upon the spot. Dr.
Parkes, too, and Mr. Spencer, as the nearest
magistrate, were hastily summoned, and
hurried to the Manor House, having but a
vague, confused idea of what had happened.

and were but ill-prepared for the ghastly
spectacle that awaited them.

On the first brief examination of the body
it was found that the deceased had been
shot through the head  shot with his own
porringer, which lay, as though hastily flung
down, on the left side, and within a few feet
of his body. Death had been instantaneous
that fact was speedily ascertained. By
whom had that pistol been discharged ?  was
the natural wonder that rose in everybody's
mind. All fitting investigation on that subject
would follow in due course. Meanwhile,
the first inquiry of both Mr. Spencer
and Dr. Parkes was for Jack and Clarice,
the nephew and adopted daughter of the
dead man. On learning that both had disappeared,
each looked. upon the other as
though momentarily struck dumb  paralyzed
by the sudden and unexpected deepening
of the mystery. -.

To Dr. Parkes and Mr. Laurence (who
speedily appeared upon the scene) the
wonder and the mystery of it was greater
than to the rest of the world, for loth
were acquainted with Mr. Fleming's private
affairs, and loth had of late held a
confidential position in the family, and
therefore knew much that to the rest of
the world was unknown. Their mutual suspicions
immediately flew off in one direction,
hut neither of them uttered a single
word.

A stormy wave of speculation arose, and
swept like a mental whirlwind over all
present ; but first, before their varied speculations
could find utterance, the poor blood-bespattered
form  all that was left of the
noble old man, so full of life, and love, and
energy but yesterday  had to be cared for ;
and though they were kind, reverent hands
that touched him, it seemed sad that he.

whose whole life had been one long, loving
devotion, should be alone now  alone among
strangers, with no loving lips to touch his
ice-cold brow  no loving hands to close
those wide-open, glassy eyes, wherein there
still seemed to lurk a lingering look of horror
that would not die out, even when the film
of death fell over them ! What had they
last looked upon ? and what was the last
thought that flashed upon the living brain ?
Ah, who could tell that ? Would ever the
secret be divulged which the dead lips held
sealed ?

On examining the room they found that
nothing had been disturbed. His watch
was in his pocket near to his dead heart : it
had not stopped, and was still tick-ticking,
telling the flight of the hours and minutes
its cold metal pulse still beating true to
time, though his had stopped. His purse
and his keys were all there, and the diamond

ring still flashed and glittered on his finger.
There was no sing of a struggle, nor even
of a movement anywhere  no derangement
of his papers : it was evident that no curious,
meddling hand had touched them : they
were all arranged in due order and docketed,

ready to be put away in the iron safe  which
was open, the jewellery, plate, &c., which
had already been placed therein, being untouched.
So robbery had not been the
cause of the catastrophe  that was plain to
see. A copy of his will (the original being
in Mr. Laurence's possession) lay open
beneath his hand, as though he had been
reading it over and considering whether all
had been done according to his desire, and
whether he had himself carried out his own
intentions to the fullest extent, so that there
could be no legal quibble in the matter.

No ; nothing had been in the shghtesfc
degree disturbed. The pen was still clasped

VOL. III. 11

in his stiffened fingers ; he had evidently
been shot while writing, and had simply
fallen forward  dead. Then the question
arose,  Who had an interest in his life ?
who would benefit by his death?" The
whole household at once underwent a preliminary
sort of examination ; each and all
said what they had got to say upon the subject
; but there was not much information
to be got from them. They had retired
early to rest ; the cook, in passing upstairs,
had witnessed the loving ' good-night "
between Clarice and Mr. Fleming; the
parlour maid, in the absence of Katrina, had
assisted her young mistress to undress, lither
night light, and left her drowsily disposed
to sleep. Hans, who had been the
last to retire, had gone into the study at
half-past eleven o'clock; his master was
then busily engaged writing, and desired
him to bring a glass of lemonade  which he

did : it still stood untouched u23on the
table.

Hans had inquired if he should close the
windows. Mr. Fleming said, '' Xo, the
night was warm, the air lovely : if he
needed them closed, he would close them
himself." Mr. Swayne was then o-ut upon
the terrace, walking up and down smoking,
which he usually did every night before
retiring to his room. He had paused, and
looked in at the window, nodded in his
usual genial way to Hans, and made some
pleasant remark to his uncle. Hans had
then bidden both gentlemen '' Good-night,"
and left them.

From within the house that was all the
light that could be thrown upon the
mystery, which was of course increased
ten-thousandfold by the fact of the strange
disappearance of Clarice and Jack from the
house. Every one was full of strange

thoughts and perplexities, in every heartsome
seed of suspicion was growing ; but at
present they were careful to utter neither
thoughts nor suspicions aloud. Mr. Laurence
had his own private theory, and as soon ashe
could get away unperceived he left the
house, and hurried down to the beach. It
struck him  who knew of the contemplated
cruise  as most probable that Jack and
Clarice, from some unexplained reason, had
gone down to the yacht earlier than had
been at first intended, and were now awaiting
Mr. Fleming's coming aboard the
Firefly.

He was met by much questioning on the
way  for the tragic news had spread like
wild-fire ; the place was alive with it, from
the village spreading down among the
fishermen on the beach. Many eyes were
dim, and many faces were full of mourning ;
for the ' Manor House folk" had always.

been kind and sympathetic to the poor. It
was not alone the generous help  that had
no savour of charity in it  but it was the
pleasant word, the pure grace of goodness,
that had won their hearts, and, when the
terrible catastrophe was reported, filled
them with sorrowful regret.

Mr. Laurence knew  at least he had been
told  where the Firefly was anchored, and
he made his way to the beach with the
intention of rowing out to her, to carry
the sad news to those who had loved the
dead man, and learn hom them how things
had chanced since he had parted hom
them the night before ; but great was
his surprise and consternation on reaching
the beach ! He looked round, and
out over the sea : the gulls were wheeling
in circles and flapping their wings overhead,
screeching in discordant chorus ; a
small fleet of fishing-boats, with their

brown patched sails, were floating lazily
upon the smooth, still water, and a large
double-funnelled steamer was visible in the
distance, leaving a trailing line of thin blue
smoke behind it  but there was not a sign
of the Firefly anywhere I Then  yes ! on
straining his eyes, he caught sight of something
hovering like a huge white bird, it
seemed, between sea and sky, and as he fixed
his gaze earnestly upon it the outline became
more defined, and he decided that it was the
Firefly itself, with its beautiful white
sails all set, scudding before the wind,
hurrying away from the land, carrying
with it  what? perhaps a clue to the red
mystery, that lay so dumb and still in the
old grey Manor House !

Mr. Laurence was so taken aback by the
discovery of the Firefly's departure, that
he sat down upon a huge boulder to shape
his thoughts into something like order ; but

the more lie thought. the more utterly
bewildered he became, and the farther away
from any reasonable theory upon the extraordinary
aspect of affaks. His legal mind
could do nothing towards the unravelling of
the tangled skein.

One or two fishermen came sauntering
along the beach, and he endeavoured to gain
from them some information as to how and
when the Firefly had sailed, and if they had
observed any one go aboard her in the night
or early morning. No, they could tell him
nothing of what he most desired to hear.
They only knew she was riding at anchor in
that lonely cove in the evening, and in
the morning she was gone. No cottage was
near ; no one had witnessed her departure.
Then, with awestruck faces, they inquired
was the terrible tale true that had drifted
down to them from the Manor House ?

Mr. Laurence assured them of the truth

of the one ghastly fact ; hut not desiring to
hear, or enter into, speculations or discussion
u23on the subject, he rose up and went
slowly hack to the Manor House, reflecting
gravely as he went along. A thousand
theories and possibilities passed through his
brain, but always some theories opposite
arose to contradict and upset them. It was
a long time before he could lay hold of anything
likely to give a reasonable explanation
of this strange affair ; at last, after much
pondering and trying to piece the mental
puzzle together in his mind, he thought he
had found a possible solution of the mystery.
He looked on his idea, turned it over in his
mind, and considered it in all lights, and the
more he so considered it, the more convinced
he became that his solution was the right
one. He resolved to take Dr. Parkes  who
was as well acquainted with the family
affairs as himself  into his confidence, and,

with that exception, to keep his idea to
himself until the time came for him to give
his hypothesis for the consideration of the
proper authorities.

On returning to the Manor House, he
found the first confusion was subsiding into
something like order. Official hands are
accustomed to lay hold of suchlike tragic
mysteries ; and that which convulses human
nature, and wrings some hearts with sorrow
and despair, is to them a thing of everyday
occurrence, and they go into it in a calm,
commonplace fashion, sifting sentiments,
guarding facts, and gathering every stray
thread of evidence  working with automatic
precision amid the mental storm and
general hubbub of the world around them.

M. Lemaire had by this time appeared
upon the scene in a state of great excitement
 with a look of baffled vengeance
glaring from his eyes, ill-suppressed fury in

his heart, and bitterness upon his tongue.
He seemed to think that things had
arranged themselves purposely for the subversion
of his plans just as they were so
near completion, too ; when he had almost
grasped the substance that had now faded
like a shadow from his hand !

He presented himself as one most unfortunate,
whom the dead man had robbed
first of his wife, then of his child! The
secrets that the dead man had so jealously
guarded all his life were now ruthlessly exposed,
and dragged before the world's eyes 
not in the simple, melancholy garb of truth,
but painted with venom, in grimy, shameful
colours, that tainted the dead man's honour,
and smirched the fair fame of the woman he
had loved and to whose memory he had been
so fatally true !

The old man lay there so still and white,
with his hands crossed peacefully upon

his breast, while this enemy lied away his
good name, and tore the reputation he had
held so dear into shreds and tatters, and
flung it to the winds for his fellow-men to
maul and play with as they would. But
perhaps ' lied " is hardly the right word to
use, since the plain facts he stated were
true ; it was the false lights and shadows he
threw upon them, and their general distortion,
that made them viler than the vilest
falsehoods  for

' Tae lie that is wholly a lie may be fought with, and
battled outright,
Bat the lie that is half a truth is a harder battle to
fight."

'M. Female was listened to with open-mouthed,
or rather open-eared, curiosity.
His plausible story was interesting and
attractive ; everybody had always suspected
that there was some strange mystery connected
with the Manor House family, and

everybody was ready to accept any solution
that might be given to them. For a time
he was surrounded by an attentive, sympathetic
throng  for when did a cruel, slanderous
tale fall upon closed ears ? It is so
much easier to believe evil than good, and
when the fame of a good or great man is
touched, all hands are ready to fling mud
upon his whiteness, drag him down from his
high level, and trample him in the mire. The
dead could not speak in his own defence.
Wrapped in the mantle of eternal silence,
he lay there at the mercy of his enemy !

*BY Persons UNKNOWN ! "

THE '' unaccountable disappearance of
Mr. Swayne and Miss Lemaire " created
even more wonderment than the death of
the old man himself. A thousand wild
theories and speculations were afloat. Some
thought that the young people must be in
some way connected with the murder, even
though they might not be the actual perpetrators
of it ; else why should they have
fled so suddenly, without giving an alarm,
and left the ghastly discovery to be made
by strangers ? But those who held opinions

affecting the characters of the absent ones
were cautious in the uttering thereof, and
only whispered among themselves, or ventilated
their ideas in suspicious looks and
mysterious innuendoes.

Others scouted that idea as too monstrous
to be for a moment encouraged. They
held to the belief that the young people
had sailed unknowing of the catastrophe;
perhaps had only gone for a short cruise,
and would return with the intention of
picking up the old man in the course of a
few days. It was very possible that at the
last moment he had found some loose ends
and threads of business still left to be
gathered together, with matters to be arranged,
that might have been overlooked in
the general bustle and preparations for their
departure. Indeed, innumerable reasons,
inexplicable to the outer world, might have
influenced the family movements ; and no

doubt, in the course of time, all that now
seemed mysterious would be made plain 
so said the most kindly and least curious
portion of the community.

Those who knew least of, and had held
little communication with, the family were
severest in their comments, and wildest in
their speculation. It is always the most
ignorant who are always loudest in their
condemnation and harshest in their judgments.
meanwhile the authorities were
making their investigations with their usual
subtlety and silence.

The old grey Manor House was shut up,
and looked more weird and lonely than ever.
The household talked in whispers and
walked with stealthy footsteps, as people
always do when there is death in the house.
It is not that they fear to wake the sleeper,
who is deaf to all earthly sounds : it is that
they feel a presence that they cannot see 

some subtle, formless thing that broods at
the coffin head, and follows them, an impalpable
shadow, from room to room,
the air impregnated by its invisible presence
 that invisible some tiling which is
Lord of all the world.

The inquest, with all its horrible details,
was only carried out ; but not a scrap of
evidence was brought forward that could
throw the slightest light upon the affair.
A verdict was returned   Murder by some
person or persons unknown." The idea of
suicide was once suggested, but promptly
rejected as a thing impossible, as the pistol,
the instrument of destruction, lay some
distance on the left, and there was an impression
of a bloody hand upon the door !
.Whereas it was proved that he could not have
moved after he was shot, but fell forward-dead.
So that theory was easily disposed
of. Neither was it at all probable that a

mere tramp, or any one with an eye to
plunder, had committed the crime, as all
the property, even to the purse and watch,
was untouched ; and, moreover, he had been
shot with his own porringer ! That fact
added much to the mystery of the affair.

Then came the inquiry, ' Who would
benefit by his death ? " That question was
easily answered. Had he an enemy in the
neighbourhood ? Did any one owe him a
grudge ? Had any one ever been heard to
threaten him ? No ; on the contrary, he
had won universal goodwill  his gentleness
and benevolent kindness had softened
some of the roughest characters in the
neighbourhood. So thoughts, suspicions,
speculations, got mixed together till they
were lost in a sea of wild conjectures.

Messrs. Keene and Sharpe, the murdered
man's confidential London solicitors, had
been communicated with, and came down

VOL. III. 12

with all possible speed to Penally. Thej
were accompanied by Mr. Stephen Stapleton,
a cousin of the dead man, and barring
Jack Swayne, his next-of-kin. When the
will was read, it was discovered that, with
the exception of a few legacies to servants,
he had left the whole of his property to be
divided equally between his nephew, John
Swayne, and his adopted daughter, Clarice
Lemaire. But as neither of these persons
was on the spot, nor could at present
be communicated with, official seals where
put upon all the property in the house, and
everything else was held by proper authority
till something could be heard of the
fugitives.

Meanwhile days dawned and days closed
in ; yet there was no sign of the Firefly's
return. It need hardly be said that all
legal and official machinery was set in
motion, trying to discover some trace of

the missing ones. This was a most difficult
matter. If they had started to go
anywhere hy land, either by road or rail,
there was every probability that a cue of
some kind would be obtainable ; but once
at sea, who could track them across its
pathless waters ? However, all was done
that could be done under the circumstances.
Telegrams were sent to the several ports
where it was thought most likely the Firefly
would touch, and they must wait for the
result.

M. Lemaire had sent people's thoughts
spinning in an opposite direction, and they
set themselves a new task in mental arithmetic.
The family romance interested them
as much as the family tragedy, and partially
drew their thoughts away from it. M.
Lemah-e insisted that his daughter had been
abducted without her consent by Jack
Swayne. He believed that the old man had

been an accomplice in that movement. He
shook his head at the idea that they had
even been cognizant of the death, and dwelt
on the probability that the murder had been
committed afte?' their departure. He talked
of retribution," and appeared to think
that Providence had struck this blow at the
sinner's head as an especial chastisement.

Ben, disreputable old Ben, went about
the neighbourhood in a state of intense
excitement, threatening, if anybody dared
to asperse the character of the absent Mr.
Jack, he would ' s waller 'em whole."

Of course, after the fashion of our time,
sensational paragraphs had appeared in all
the London newspapers ; and Hugh Spencer,
immediately on hearing of the tragedy,
hurried down to Penally  with what feelings
of horror and dismay may be readily imagined.
He watched the proceedings with
lynx-eyed attention, and listened to everybody's

theories, but commented upon none.
He wandered about the village, gathering
scraps of conversation and wondering from
the lips of the peasantry. From the highest
source to the lowest, he gathered every
thought, every suggestion, hoping to extract
therefrom a ray of light to guide him
in his search for Clarice. She was his
soul, his life ! He grieved for the old man
who had been so genially his friend, but he
left the elucidation of the murder to the
police. All his thoughts, all his care, all
soul, were absorbed in the mystery of her
disappearance ; and he registered a vow
between himself and God to know no rest,
no peace, till he held her face to face
again !

Those who had known him in the old
days scarcely recognized him now. He
seemed, to have been suddenly transformed
from the gay, joyous Hugh Spencer to a

grave, sombre-hearted man. His genial
spirit seemed to have died a sudden and
violent death; while a strong, set purpose
had taken possession of his senses. All
expression had faded from his face, and he
seemed to wear a mask of marble during
those dreadful days.

At the Eectory, the tragic affair at the
Manor House was the chief topic of conversation
between Mr. and Mrs. Spencer.
With the true spirit of their nature, they
gloated over the ghastly details, and put the
blackest possible interpretation on the young
people's disappearance. Mrs. Spencer left
not a rag of charity to cover their mangled
reputations. She turned the story over in
her mental maw, as though she relished the
flavour of horror and of shame. She accepted
M. Lemaire's strange story without
the shadow of a doubt ; and while seeming
to deplore the wickedness of human nature,

really rejoiced at it, and gladly seized the
opportunity it gave them to lash the imaginary
vices of their parishioners.

The Rector grew stronger in his denunciation
of the devil and all his works, and
exhorted his congregation as though they
one and all had murder in their hearts, and
the seeds of all evil flourishing within them ;
and Mrs. Spencer carried with her the
flavour of fire and brimstone  it exhaled
from her as she walked through the village,
and Hashed from her eyes even when it
found no utterance fi'om her tongue.

All this was intolerable to Hugh and
Miriam ; the atmosphere of home, loaded
with cruel slander against those they loved,
was poison to their souls, and instead of
seeking the companionship of their parents,
and forming a sympathetic family circle,
they avoided it as much as possible, and
always found some business, some occupation

elsewhere, rarely joining them except
at meals, when the servant's presence acted
as a sort of bridle on their tongues. But in
spite of their endeavours they could not
entirely avoid the subject ; they were sometimes
caught in the whirl, and struggled
out of it as best they could.

One afternoon, when they had settled
down for a cup of four o'clock tea, Mrs.
Spencer commenced playing on her favourite
string.

'* If you remember," she exclaimed, stirring
her tea leisurely and addressing nobody in
particular, "I always said there was some
strange mystery up there"  jerking her
head towards the Manor House  " but I
little thought such a sink of iniquity had
opened up in the midst of us. And to think
that my own children should have been
exposed to such pernicious influences !
Well, I'm not surprised that a mystery of

that kind should have such a dreadful
ending. The only creature that really
deserves any sympathy is that poor, dear
M. Lemaire, so cruelly robbed of his only
child."

Hugh bit his lip, and moved uneasily in
his seat, as he exclaimed 

'Tor God's sake, mother, talk of something
else ! "

''I can't, Hugh," she answered  " I can't
even think of anything else ; and as for your
poor father, he can't even rest in his bed.
He seems to blame himself for having
harboured such creatures in the parish ; and
taken their money for the church window,
too, and the schools!  no wonder everything's
gone wrong. It's dreadful to think
of there being so much hypocrisy in the
world. You needn't look so impatient,
Hugh. Im sorry to see your moral perceptions
so blunted  instead of condemning

these people, as every honourable man ought
to do, you actually look as though you'd like
to take their part. As for your religious
feelings, they are nowhere ; for the disrespectful
way in which you left the church
just as your father probed this moral
leer "

' I wish that every decent person had
followed my example," interrupted Hugh;
 the pulpit has no right to be made the
vehicle for obnoxious personalities."

*' And it appears to me," she rejoined,
angrily, '* that every place is the right place
for the exposure of sins and sinners ; and I
am surprised to hear yoti, a clergyman's
son, born, and I may say nursed, upon the
highest principles of the Church, should
take the part of murderers  and  and
worse And as for you, Miriam, I don't
know what you are made of, sitting there
and never saying a word."

If I did speak, mother, 3-011 might not
like to hear 4iat I should say," answered
Miriam, in a low voice.

What!" exclaimed Mrs. Spencer, who
was stunned hy the audacity of the harmless
speech. " Is it possible that you, too,
stand up for these miscreants !-  for people
who commit murder in cold blood "

' Oh, mother, mother ! there is no proof,"
cried Miriam, as if in pain.

' No proof! Why, if he were not guilty,
why did he run away ? And as for your
friend Clarice, an unnatural daughter may
well be an accomplice in  "

A dangerous light gleamed from Hugh
Spencer's eyes. He sprang from his seat ;
he could control himself no longer.

smother!" he exclaimed, in a voice of
suppressed thunder, 'you are going the
way to make me hate you ! Do you know
that I love that girl  that she is as jure

and innocent as one of God's own angels ?
and I will not hear her sweet fame fouled
by your malignant tongue."

Hugh was always so tenderly respectful
to his mother, that she was aghast at his
unusual wrathful violence of speech.

Hugh, Hugh ! " she exclaimed, '' you
forget I am your mother."

' Sometimes I wish to God I could," he
said.

Mrs. Spencer was not hysterically emotional.
Her wrath was lashed to a dead,
white heat ; her eyes glittered, her words
were cold and bitter  like a sharp knife
they cut to the bone, and made the sensitive
spirit quiver and burn, as the flesh
quivers and burns beneath the lash. Hugh
hated domestic scenes, especially between
himself and his mother, whom he, as a
rule, treated with chivalrous respect.
However much her petty, carping spirit

jarred upon this, and her self-righteousness
and narrow ideas of Christianity clashed
with his wider views, he could generally
thrust and parry, and turn her harsh
tirade into a laugh, the sunshine of his
spirit flashing upon the gloom of hers. But
now that she ventured within his sacred
circle, and her calumnies fell upon those he
loved and honoured, his anger knew no
bounds  it was ready to rise up and drown
her petty platitudes in a flood of honest
indignation. He dared not trust himself
to speak, for he knew he should say much
that he would afterwards regret ; so, with
clenched lips and gleaming eyes, he strode
out into the garden, and poor Miriam was
left to bear the brunt of the maternal storm.
Already, in this short space of time,
Miriam was much changed. She was pale
and thin ; the elasticity had gone out of
her step ; the light had faded from her eyes

they were pale and expressionless, as they
used to be before love lighted them  they
were now full of a dull sadness that fell
over them like a veil and never lifted.
Presently she joined her brother in the
garden; at least there was sympathy between
these two. He had noticed how sad
she was looking, and soon he guessed the
reason wdiy. At first they paced up and
down beneath the ancient elms, neither of
them speaking a word. Then she laid a
hand upon his arm, looked at him with
smileless eyes, and said, in a low voice that
harmonized with her wan, white face 

' Hugh, can't something be done ? Must
we sit still and wait ? Don't you see that
these doubts, these suspicions of him, are
killing me ? You can swear to her purity
and innocence ; and I can swear to his
loyalty, honour, and truth. Can't something
be done to prove it ? "

She laid her head u]30ii his shoulder with
a divini, suppressed anguish that was more
eloquent than the cry of despair. This girl,
who had been brought up in a school of
repression, where feeling was folly and
sentiment was laughed to scorn, felt perhaps
a thousandfold more keenly than those
whose emotional natures are in unison and
sympathy with their surrounding.

Hugh saw at once how matters stood
with her. He passed his arm silently round
her. Whatever he thought, however much
inclined he might have been to blame the
absent, he made no signs ; neither did he
worry her with those words of tactless
sympathy with which our best friends
sometimes irritate us to madness. After
a momentary pause, he said, soothingly 

'sis it so?  my poor little sister!" and
once more there was silence between them
a sweet, sympathetic silence. Each comprehended

the other ; one chord of feeling
thrilled through both their natures ; and
though he could find small comfort for
himself, he found some cheering word to
say to her. * See here, Miriam," he added,
** don't be coldhearted ; there's an old
woman's saying, but a very true one, ' It
is always darkest before dawn.' I admit
things look black and bewildering at present
; but I feel that all will be made plain
soon. We zoill solve this dreadful mystery.
Through these muddy waters we'll somehow
find the truth. Eemember, dear, I pull
stroke-oar in ttiis boat, and, with God's
blessing, we shall reach ' land at last.' "

Surmise AND SUSPICION.

4 NINE days' wonder " is a common
"'- expression ; but does anything ever
occupy the attention of the world, or the
interest of any community either great or
small, for nine whole days ! A storm of
emotional wonder or horror may shake the
world one day, but it sinks into a calm the
next. Armies may be annihilated, thrones
shaken, kings driven from their seats, the
earth may open and swallow up cities. A
momentary shock, a thrill of excitement,
follows  then fresh armies are levied, new

VOL. III. 13

rulers arise, new cities are built above the
ruins of the old, and all is forgotten in a
week ! We open our morning papers, and
the news of some fresh disaster obscures the
memory of the old. Truly if some were
told that their dearest friend had eaten his
own grandmother, or buried his wife and
six children in the back garden, there would
be an uplifting of hands, an expression of
horror and amazement  and that is all. By
the morrow, both the horror and the wonder
would have died the natural death of all
violent emotions.

So the mystery, the crime, and the whole
romantic story of the Manor House, became,
in the same way, a thing of the past. The
excitement that had for a time agitated the
neighbourhood died out, and the good folk
settled down to the old dead level; they
went about their daily business, and soon
ceased to talk about it. There was a vague

idea prevalent that it would all be cleared
up one day ; and the fever-heat of curiosity
once over, they were content to wait. Tt is
so easy to sit down patiently under the
calamities of our friends. Only in the
minds of the few personal friends of the
family was the interest in the mystery
unabated  indeed it seemed to grow stronger
as the time rolled on and not a scrap of
knowledge, either from official or private
sources, came to hand. No tidings had been
heard of Fireflij at any of the ports where
inquiries had been made ; indeed the little
vessel might have been a phantom ship, and
vanished in the mists of cloud-land with all
her crew, so lost was she to all human
intelligence.

The police are slow at then work,"
exclaimed Mr. Laurence, as Dr. Parkes
and Hugh Spencer dropped into his office,
as it was their habit to do, in the early

morning, to talk over things and learn if
the slightest clue had been found, or was
likely to be found ; for it was only through
Mr. Laurence that they learned how the
investigations were going on with the
official and legal authorities  Mr. Laurence
keeping up communication with all parties,
and taking his friends into his confidence
just as far as he thought wise and prudent,
and no farther. ' They are too dilatory, and
don't lay hold of the might end of affairs ; so
bound up in official buckram and conceit,
too, they won't take a suggestion from a
sensible outsider. I put the clue into their
hands ; if they had only followed it up they'd
have run the murderer to earth by this time
ay, and solved the other part of the
mystery, too ! "

I don't take your view of the case, you
know. I never did ; my ideas flow in quite
a different direction," relied Dr. Parks
drumming thoughtfully upon the table.

Hugh looked at Mr. Laurence with inquiring
earnestness, as he said, eagerly 

* Give me your clue. If it is only as fine
as the film of the spider's wei it may guide
us somewhere. I'm tired of groping in the
dark. I shall go mad if something doesn't
happen soon. Give me your clue ; one
man may see when another man is blind.
My heart, my very life, is bound up in this
matter. I love Clarice ! and my instinct
may guide me where reason and hired investigators
lose their way."

Well, you know, M. Lemaire and our
poor old friend were the most deadly
enemies. You know the whole story, so I
needn't go into that. I will give you my
theory  of course in strict confidence. I
think it very possible, indeed I firmly
believe, that M. Lemaire got scent, by some
underhand means, of Mr. Fleming's intended
movements in regard to Clarice  the object

of the one being to place lier beyond the
reach of the man or of the law ; the object
of the other being to keep her within it.
That being an accepted fact, Lemaire
naturally, on gaining the information, rushed
off to the Manor House in red-hot haste and
anger, to stop the proceedings even at the
eleventh hour. A violent quarrel between
the two men would equally naturally ensue,
and  well, if you see an eddy in the gutter
you may comprehend the maelstrom ! Great
things come from small ; from the first
angry word you know what ensues  evil
passions rise higher and higher till they are
lashed to white heat, and  murder follows.
At least, to my mind, that is the only way
of explaining this melancholy business. I
see no other feasible way of accounting for
  other things."

* Suppose that your idea on the one side
should be true," exclaimed Hugh, thoughtfully,

'how does that touch upon the disappearance
of  Clarice and Jack Swayne ? "

"The greater case involves the less,"
replied Mr. Laurence. " It seems to me not
only possible, but most likely true, that
Clarice, by some strange chance, either
witnessed or became cognizant of the
murder, and that Swayne, in order to avoid
the horrible position of a child giving
evidence against her own father  bad
and unnatural as that father was  in the
horror and confusion of the moment thought
only of her, and carried her off to sea  the
yacht being all in readiness, and, as you
know, waiting to take the whole party on a
cruise."

Dr. Parkes whistled. Hugh reflected fora
few moments; then he said, speaking with
slow consideration 

' Your view of the case is certainly worth
consideration, though I don't quite take it

in. In the first place, it was proved that
Clarice went to hed early "

** But it was not proved that she did not
come down again, "interrupted Mr. Laurence,
sharply ; ' she might have returned in search
of something she had forgotten."

* Not likely," responded Hugh, gravely.
*' According to the maid's statement she
left her in bed, tired and drowsily disposed
to sleep, a little after ten o'clock ; it is not
likely she would have dressed and come
downstairs again. Now Mr. Fleming was
seen by Hausmann writing in his study at
half-past eleven o'clock ! Swayne was out
on the terrace smoking ; so the catastrophe
could not have happened till after that time.
Besides, she loved the old man so devotedly
she would never have left him  never ! She
was not a coward ; she was loyal and true
to the core ! She clung to him through life,
and would never have deserted him in

death ! Besides, he was left, you say, just
as he had fallen forward dead. Would any
loving child have left a father so ? Why,
she would have called frantically for help,
and roused the house ! "

* There's something in what you say,"
observed Mr. Laurence ; '' still, I don't give
up my idea. I can't make it clear to you,
and indeed it is not quite clear to me, but I
believe there is something in it."

** Was there not some little passage at
arms between Mr. Fleming and his nephew
on that last night ? " inquired Hugh, after
a momentary pause  ' some trifling disagreement
? I fancy I have heard something
of the kind alluded to."

'Oh, that was a mere nothing," answered
Mr. Laurence, ' a matter of delicacy on
Mr. Fleming's part. Miss Lemaire being
the heiress, and holding such a large property
in her own hands, he thought she

would like to hold a certain portion conjointly
with  well, with Mr. Hugh Spencer,
if she married him ; he did not like the idea
of all being on the one side."

'' So he spoke of me in that way, did he ?
the dear old man ! God bless him ! " exclaimed
Hugh, deeply touched that he
should have been held so closely allied with
Clarice in the old man's heart. But men
never like to show their emotions ; a
moment after he added, '' And what said
Swayne ? What objection had he got to
make to that ? "

sewell, he certainly did object rather
strongly. He thought there had been quite
enough of the 'joint ownership' arrangement
already (of course he alluded to his own
formerly projected marriage with Clarice),
and he dared to say that the present arrangement
would come to smash like the
last ; and he did not believe that even yet
Clarice knew her own mind."

He said that, did lie?" exclaimed Hugh,
with a red, wrathful flush upon his face ;
* anything else ? And how did Mr. Fleming
receive his impertinent interference ? "

"I don't think he liked it at first," answered
Mr. Laurence; "hut in the end
Swayne carried his point, for the codicil
was not added."

** Did he know the contents of the will ? "
inquired Hugh, eagerly.

How could he ? " observed Dr. Parkes ;
'the will was not read till after the
funeral."

"But he knew the contents well enough,"
said Mr. Laurence, rather impatiently, " as
the will was read over to him more than
once; hut I really don't see what these legal
details have to do with the question at
issue."

"I don't know," said Hugh, thoughtfully;
"in a case like this, surrounded as it seems

with impenetrable mystery, we can reject
nothing that may possibly throw even a
glimmering side-light upon the subject."

** If you look for a side-light in that
direction," exclaimed Dr. Parkes, gruffly,
' you will be lost in a worse darkness than
you are in at present."

Hugh relapsed into an abrupt silence, for
as he was speaking his sister's pale, sad face
floated before his mind's eye. A thrill like
an electric shock ran through his veins !
Was it possible  could the man she loved
be guilty of murder? and such a murder,
too ! He was affrighted at his own
thoughts ; but the more he tried to get
away from them and shake them off, the
more and the closer they clung to him, till
he grew sick in the contemplation of bare
possibilities. For although Jack Swayne
and Clarice were not allied by blood, yet
there was the tie of lifelong association

between them ; and if  it was a very large
*z/," but it was there  ?/ be bad been
guilty of the death of the man who had
been a father to them both, why the shock,
the horror of the fact, would kill her !
And these two  this possibly guilty man
and his own pure love  were away somewhere
 away together !

His brain reeled with its weight of conflicting
thoughts ; so many interests and
affections were involved in the elucidation
of this matter, that even if the truth were
eventually brought to light it seemed that
it must bring sorrow, misery, and shame
with it. And on whom, and where, would
the shame fall ? He could not tell ; he
could only feel  till his faculties seemed
numbed with anxiety and despair.

Only those who have suffered it can comprehend
the dull pain, or, to some temperaments,
the having agony, of enforced

inactivity when the mental atmosphere
is full of excitement; when we feel an
irrepressible longing to be up and doing,
and there is nothing to be done ; an
impulsive throbbing of heart and brain, a
wild desire to stir and struggle, when weare
bound hand and foot by circumstances
stronger than chains of iron. This hiding-time
between the acts of life is hard to live
through; we know that behind the curtain,
on some invisible stage, strange scenes are
enacting, and circumstances which touch us
to the very core of our being are evolving
and commingling, and we cannot lift a hand
to direct their course ! Though our hearts
may be aching and breaking with anxiety,
we must sit with folded hands and wait.
When we Mow that our beloved are dead,
we grieve and become resigned to the fact ;
but while they are wandering through the
land of uncertainties and encompassed by

a thousand shapeless possibilities, we are
torn with anxieties and know no rest. But
however much we may rebel, we cannot
accelerate the course of events, any more
than we can force a flower into bloom
before its time.

Hugh felt to the fullest extent the dreariness
of the days and hours  dark days they
were indeed ! He felt like one bound hand
and foot, and lived through the dull, commonplace
days with a dull pain at his heart ;
yet he was always on the alert, ready to
start, body and soul, in any direction where
there was a chance of discovering the truth.

All attempts to connect M. Lemaire with
the affair had so far failed utterly; suspicion
lived still, but it was unsupported by a
single fact.

Hugh tried to relieve the monotony of
suspense, which was telling rapidly on his
health and spirits, by plunging into hard

study, and worked with a zest hitherto
unknown to him. There is nothing Hke
work for blunting the edge of the keenest
sorrow ; it cannot destroy, but it can
ameliorate the pain of it. Men can always
get that kind of relief, while women stay at
home and brood till their trouble seems too
hard to bear.

"While her brother was out in the midst
of the whirling world, Miriam stayed at
Penally, exposed to all the petty misery of
an unsympathetic home, where the spirit
of antagonism was always rampant to the
fore. She bore the stings of her mother's
waspish tongue with calm equanimity,
never being provoked to reply; only the
more steadily performing her round of
duties, and trying to smile and be cheerful
according to the demands of the social
home circle. If she dared to look grave or
thoughtful, she was accused of *' flying in

the face of Providence " and participating
in the crimes of the evil-doers. She
seemed to carry a soothing atmosphere
about with her when she went about among
the poor people ; she had always a pleasant
smile and cheering word for those who were
sick, and kindly sympathy with those who
were in trouble. She had felt that '' touch
of nature " which makes all the world akin
that was all she wanted to galvanize
her frozen sympathies into active life.
Although anxious, and often heartsick and
weary with waiting, she was not all unhappy.
She believed in the man she loved
nothing could shake her faith in him.
So, with love and hope in her heart, she
could not starve outright.

Meanwhile the lovely autumn days gave
way to the wild wintry weather, and when
the snow was on the ground and frosty
chilliness in the air there came to her the

VOL. III. 14

first bud of promise, bearing within its
folded leaves the scent of a summer gladness.
It was only a telegram, brief at best.
It was from Hugh, and ran thus :

News at last. Hurrah. Will write."
That was aU.

UNDER THE Orange TREES.

WE Yill leave England, \'ith its wild
\'intry weather, leaden skies, and
storms of sleet and snow, behind us, and
betake ourselves  in imagination at least 
to more genial climes  to St. Augustine, a
sweet, pleasant, out-of-the-world place ; a
quaint old Spanish city, the oldest in the
United States, in far-off Florida. Dear,
romantic St. Augustine ! it has none of the
ugliness, but all the pictm-esqueness of a
glorious old age. It is like an old-fashioned
beauty who has slept for centuries, and

lain in state through all the changing years,
and now wakes up in all her ancient fur-helots
and paint and patches, and walks
and talks with us in the formal phraseology
of dead and gone days. The romance of its
ancient glory clings to it still. The tourist
of to-day seems quite out of place. The
dignity and stately grace of the Spanish
cavaliers seems to linger everywhere. We
can almost fancy we see their shadowy
forms stoop their plumed heads as they pass
in and out of their ancient homes, with
spears jangling and swords clanging at their
heels. In the midst of flower gardens and
orchards, some few pretty homes of to-day
have grown up in this land of the yesterdays
their modern features, with quaint galled
roofs and old nooks and corners, by no
means mar the beauty of the scene.

It is a lovely day. A supreme stillness
reigns over the silent sea, and still more

silent land ; the great sun hangs like a globe
of fire in the pale blue skies, and floods the
land with golden light ; the green earth,
with her wealth of fruit and flowers in her
lap, seems wrapped in a sweet languor, as
though she had fallen asleep and was smiling
in her dreams ; and the red roses and white
hies nod their pretty heads drowsily and
sleep with her. The very dogs doze in the
sunlight ; they don't seem to have a good
honest bark or vigorous wag of the tail left
in them. Life, the busy nineteenth century
life we know of, exists not here. We seem
to have gone to sleep in the world of to-day,
and been carried away in om' dreams and
woke up in an ancient city of two centuries
ago ! Here, in this out-of-the-world region,
we come upon the track of the missing ones,
Jack Swayne and Clarice Lemaire ! He
has a worn, anxious look upon his face, and
she is perhaps a trifle more fragile, but she

is lovelier than ever. They had been
walking round the ramparts of the ancient
'' Fort Marion," and she sat down to rest,
looking out over the beautiful blue water
towards home, towards England. The
balmy air was full of peace ; it seemed made
up of some heavenly alchemy  a tissue of
golden glory and shimmer of silver sheen.
Looking out to the horizon, Clarice sat
silent for some time  then said, with some
show of impatience, as if uttering a thought
aloud that had been vexing her in silence 
Jack, why do you tell people you are my
brother ? I hate lies."
J. (/ Well, you know, Clary, I really am a
sort of brother," he answered, a slight flush
rising to his cheek, *And it makes things
easy, and prevents people making awkward
inquiries."

i;i'';I don't see why inquiries should be
awkward"! she answered ; " but then I donec

know, everything seems strange altogether ;
and Jack, shall we have to stay here long ?
I'm getting so tired of waiting. Don't you
think it seems odd that father has not joined
us before this ? "

' AVell," he answered, speaking with slow
deliberation, " I dare say it does seem odd."

* Seem ! it is odd, of course," she exclaimed
; " and it is odder still that we don't
hear hom him. I have written to him
twice, and it is so unlike him not to answer
me."

'perhaps he has not got your letters,"
observed Jack ; *' you know the post is very
irregular in these out-of-the-world places ;
they may have miscarried."

'two letters can't have miscarried," she
answered, desperately ; " and  and there's
Hugh ; his silence is stranger still ! " she
added; her Hps trembled, and there were tears
in her voice. " I don't understand it," she

added, with a thoughtful puckering of her
brows. ' x\nd somehow 7/oic are changed,
Jack; you're not a bit like yourself."

*' Such anxieties as I have had, Clarice,
are apt to change a man, and in a sort of
way to sober him down," said Jack,
gravely.

 Dear old Jack ! " she answered, smoothing
his hand caressingly. ' I know I've
been a great trouble to you ; but there's no
more cause for anxiety. I am well, quite
well now ; only a little restless and uneasy."
She paused for a second, then, peering
curiously in his face, she added : ' I feel as
though you were trjdng to keep me in the
dark, to hide something from me  you talk
with a gag upon your tongue ; not at all in
your old free, frank way ; and then there's
Katrina  she puzzles me ; I often find her
in tears  and you "

 You are not going to say that you find

me in tears too ! " lie said, trying to speak
lightly.

"No," she answered, with a short dry
laugh. " Men don't cry ; but I've seen you
look worse than tears. Jack, you must talk
to me now ; I know I have been very, very
ill, and when I've asked you about things
you've put me off, saying I  was too easily
excited  not strong enough to talk.' Well,
there is no longer that excuse, I am welland
strong enough for anything ; and your
strange putting off, and the suspense about
father and  and Hugh is vexing and
troubling me more than any other thing
could do."

'' Tell me exactly what it is you want to
know, dear, and I will answer you to the
best ability," said Jack, cautiously.

There ! that's a stiff, unnatural speech
for you to make ; it is worthy of a lawyer's
clerk!" she exclaimed. "I can't ask you

questions, because I don't know what questions
to ask ; but I want to know everything
straight off exactly as it happened, from the
time I was taken ilL I remember I went to
bed that night ; I remember we were toto
start for a cruise in the Greek Isles the
next morning ; I remember going upstairs,
and your looking out of the study door to
say ' good-night.' After that all is confusion,
almost a blank. I have a dim, indistinct
memory of being ill on board the boat."

' You had brain fever  a severe attack,"
said Jack, shortly.

' Was that it ? Well, I remember watching
the flies upon the ceiling, and the waves
running and leaping beside the vessel, and
you and Katrina gliding in and out like
shadows ; I used to wonder whether I was
dead, everything was so vague and shadowy.
I don't remember speaking or hearing anybody
else speak. Then I remember lying

on deck sometimes, and being carried on
shore here. I was too weak to think, to
wonder, or to speak ; I came hack to myself
very slowly, then I began to wonder about
things vaguely. Noir it is different," she
added, firmly; '' I want to know when and
how I was taken ill ? It is horrible to be so
ignorant about one's self  and why father
changed his mind ; he must have had a very
strong reason, or he would never have left
me to come away with you  alone. I don't
see why you should hesitate. Jack  unless,"
her lips quivered, " that  perhaps it had
something to do with  him, whom I have
never known and can never call ' father.' "
Her colour went and came as she spoke the
last words reluctantly. '' Jack, is it  is it
that he is on our track  is following us ? "
she added, quickly.

', ' Xo, I don't think it had anything to do
with him," answered Jack. ' Do not be

afraid of his following us; he could never
find us here."

*' Then what is all this secrecy about?"
she demanded.

Clarice, dear, can't you wait till "

Till father comes, you mean to say ? "
she interposed. 'Of course I could, if I
knew when that would be ; it is exactly
that which worries and troubles me so. His
absence  his silence, and your extraordinary
behaviour  frightens me ; my heart feels like
a lump of ice ; the worst that is, is nothing
to what we dread it may be."

The people were beginning to gather on
the ramparts to watch the sun set ; the
gorgeous glow in the west cast a reflection
like a tender blush on the horizon in the
eastern sky  so clear was the atmosphere
in that southern clime that the soft rose
tint in the east lingered as long as the fiery
lines in the west, and only faded with the

dying daylight ; and as the good folk of the
town came sauntering to and fro, conversation
upon any but the most ordinary topics
was impossible ; so Jack proposed they
should stroll homeward, to which Clarice
quite agreed.

They slowly wended their way down hom
the ramparts, and through the narrow,
crooked streets, with their overhanging
balconies and trailing wealth of sweet-scented
flowers; they passed out of the
city, and turned round for a moment's
pause to watch the sun setting. It seemed
as though the gates of glory were opened tolet
him in, with his brilliant retinue of
crimson and gold clouds, which filed the
western hemisphere with light, feathery
plumes, like the heads of richly robed
warriors following thei kind. For a moment
through those filmy gates of gold we seem
to catch a glimpse of '* the land beyond the

sunset," with its walls of jasper and isles of
silver light. Then they passed on along the
narrow road, till they reached the lovely
orange grove, in the midst of which they
had made their home  their temporary
home. Is there anything in the world, I
wonder, more beautiful than those orange
trees, with their shining forage of dark,
glossy green, snowy blossoms, and rich
golden fruit.

By a thousand pleasant ways Jack tried
to beguile Clarice, and win her away from
her determination  he might as well have
tried to beguile a granite rock; he talked
more gaily and amusingly than he had
done for many a day ; but the gaiety was
forced, and he knew that Clarice knew it.
In the evening they took their coffee
beneath the spreading branches of a blooming
orange tree  the giant of his tribe.
Clarice once more moved to the attack.

*now, Jack," she exclaimed, " eye are
quite alone now ; only our two selves and
God  there is nobody to interrupt us ;
begin at the beginning, and tell me everything
710 w, or I shall think things more
horrible than the greatest horror could be."

 Can't you be patient for a little longer,
Clarice ? " with a sigh that almost deepened
into a groan.

'* Xo," she answered, 'I cannot be patient
any longer  what is the use of hiding from
me to-day what I must know tomorrow ?
there is no sense in it ! "

Still he struggled to get out of his corner.

I think it is a pity you should worry
yourself and me so unnecessarily," he said,
with some irritation: '' suppose there is
nothing  that I have nothing to tell you ? "

'ein that case," she answered, 'ras I am
neither a lunatic nor a child, I shall emancipate
myself from your guardianship, return

to Penally in the best way I can, and learn
the truth for myself."

He saw the set expression of her month,
and the firm, determined look that came
into her face, and knew that she would
keep her word. With an angry motion she
had started to her feet ; he put out his hand
and drew her down beside him.

' Clarice, darling," he exclaimed, ' if you
asked me for a dose of poison, would you
blame me if I refused to give it you ? "

* There are cases when one kind of poison
is needed to counteract the effect of a worse,"
she answered, calmly;  and, poison or no
poison, I mean to have what I want 
now."

Jack Swayne was a brave man, and more
than once had faced deadly peril with an
undaunted spirit ; he could conceive no
physical danger that would not find him
strong to grasp it; but the sight of Clarice's

questioning face unmanned him quite ; he
could not look into her soft blue eyes and
speak ! Almost as soon could he take a
dagger and thrust it into her fair white
breast !

Oh, my love ! my love ! " he exclaimed,
with a burst of uncontrolled emotion  so
strange in him, the unemotional ! " You
are asking me to kill you!'''

A silence, a breathless silence, like the
lull before a storm fell between them ; the
night was so still, there was not a sound in
the air, only a slight rustle in the orange
boughs above their heads, like the rustle
of a watching angel's wings. Through the
dusky shadows that the moonlight threw
around them they looked into each other's
faces  she with a look of questioning horror
in her eyes.

' Jack," she exclaimed, in a sort of soul-freezing
whisper, your hand was warm a

VOL. III. 15

moment ago  now it is cold as ice !
Come out from these shadows, and let me
see your face ! "

She dragged him beyond the shade
of the broad branches, and forced him
to lift his face into the full flood of the
moonlight. She gazed at him with painful
intentness, with all her soul centred in her
eyes. She seemed to look not only at, but
through him, and sent her thoughts wandering
through unknown regions, forcing his
thoughts to lead the way  till they stood
face to face with  that ? He bore her
scrutiny in agonized silence. Poor fellow !
he did not wish to speak. At last, in a low
voice, and drawing her breath in short,
quick gasps, she said :

* What  what is this  I remember now ?
a dream I had  a horrible dream ! Jack !
Jack ! tell me the truth ! Oh ! my God [
was it  dream? "

SHE KNOWS THE Truth !

i DEADLY calm fell on Clarice as, with
that despairing cry, she came out of the
land of shadows wherein her soul had been
lost.

It is with the mind, as with the body : in
moments of mortal peril, or milder stress of
circumstances worse than death, we diaw
ourselves together, knit every nerve, as it
were, into a compact mass, and brace body
and soul, till we are strong enough to bear
the weight of horror that threatens and

falls upon Is, without shattering our reason
quite.

In such dumb agony, too great for words
for after all words are poor things to express
strong emotions  Clarice, ghastly
pale, motionless, except for the nervous
twitching of her hands, listened while Fie
spoke at last, and told her all, with infinite
tenderness and most compassionate sympathy.
He gave her an account of all that
had happened  not exactly as it is told here,
for here things are related precisely as they
occurred, while in the telling to her he
softened the details, smoothed the sharp
edges, and just threw as much light upon
the subject as was necessary for her comprehension.
Here the course of events is
told in the tragic nakedness of unvarnished
-truth.

On the evening before the intended cruise
of the Firefli/j after Clarice had retired to

rest, and the Tadpole house had followed her
example, Mr. Fleming continued busily
writing, sorting, arranging, and re-arranging
his papers, Jack occasionally lounging into
discuss some trifling point of mutual
interest, or talk over their projects for the
morrow  the morrow that for one of them
would never come I There were so many exciting
topics of conversation, that the time
flew imperceptibly past. They hugged themselves
on the success of their* plan, and
laughed over the discomfiture of Lemaire,
and imagined his rage, when he found himself
at the eleventh hour 'checkmate"
when he thought he had just won the game.
Mr. Fleming decided that he should not goto
bed at all, it was not worthily for only
so few hom'S, besides, his brain was too much
excited, he couldn't sleep even if he went to
bed. It was then nearly four o'clock, but
he advised Jack to o to his room for a

couple of hours' rest ; and Jack accordingly
went upstairs for that purpose.

He had scarcely reached his own room,
indeed before he had fairly closed his door,
lie fancied lie heard a low creaking sound,
as of a door being opened, from the gallery
below. He went to the balustrade and
leaned over ; he held his breath, and for a
second his heart seemed to stand still !  he
beheld Clarice emerging slowly from her
room just as she had risen from her bed, her
bare, supperless feet fell doubtlessly upon
the floor. She was deadly pale  he saw that
from the full light of the moon, which
streamed in through a large bay window at
the end of the gallery  her lips moved convulsively,
and her wide open eyes were
fixed forward with a gleam of terror in
them, as though she were following some
invisible spectral horror that he could not
see.

He had heard of, but had never seen her
in one of these somnambuHstic disturbances,
and had been told, m the event of his ever
seeing her in that condition, that she must
on no account be spoken to, as the fright
of the sudden awakening might, with her
delicate organization, be fatal ! He did not
know what to do, but to follow her quietly ;
and in breathless silence he moved after her
down the stairs. As though guided by some
unseen hand she went straight on, turning
neither to the right nor to the left, till she
reached the study; she turned the handle
of the door and went in. He did not follow
her very closely, from feelings of delicacy,
lest she might awake, turn round and see
him. He hesitated for a moment whether
he should follow her into the study, or leave
his uncle  who better understood these
attacks  to deal with her alone. He did
not hesitate long ; first he heard a faint

movement, an underneath ejaculation from
his uncle  wliicli as immediately followed
by the sound of a shot ! He rushed forward
in time to see the smoking pistol fall from
Clarice's hand, as a cry of unutterable terror
burst from her lips. With gasping breath
she staggered towards the door, and would
have fallen, but he caught her in his arms.
Staring up in his face, in a wild, affrighted
way, she exclaimed 

'jack! what is it? Wake me! wake
me ! It is such a horrible dream ! "

'' Hush, Clarice I Hush, for God's sake !
What have you done ? "

*' Where am I?" she continued, struggling
in his arms, her startled senses only'
half awake. * Am I at sea ? Don't let Jdvi
take me away ! Oh, father ! father ! hold
me ! " She gazed vaguely, wildly around,
and clung to him convulsively, moaning
piteously.

Jack called softly to his uncle, but he
never stiiTecl. Half distracted, scarce knowing
what he did, he carried her to the
alcove, and laid her on the sofa ; her excited
spirit had overwrought itself, and she sank
insensible from his arms. With closed eyes
and shut senses she lay like one dead.

Jack hurried to the old man's side. He
sat there exactly as he was found on that
dreadful morning, his head fallen forward,
and the life-blood oozing from a wound in
the temple. Jack lifted the dear grey head,
and looked in the face ; the light of unconscious
life still lingered in the eyes  it had
not had time to die out of them. He lifted
the hands ; they were limp and nerveless ;
no pulse was to be felt. Quick as a flash
Jack realized the fact  lie was past hope !
His first impulse was to rouse the house,
call for help. Then, struck with horror and
despair, he glanced at the white, unconscious

figure of Clarice as she lay apparently
lifeless there.

A rush of thoughts passed through his
train, quick as a stream of quicksilver,
whirled in mad confusion for a moment,
then settled down into one  one great
thought  Clarice. His mind was on the
rack, and he groaned aloud 

'* My God ! if she awakes and sees the
sight that I see," he thought, ' the horror
of it will kill her ! "

Then, quick as a flash of lightning,
bursting over a dark landscape, illuminates
its every leaf and feature, the whole
situation flashed upon his brain. If the
truth were known what would be the consequence
to her . Apart from the home-tragedy,
the dismay and horror of it, he
beheld the law  the cruel, but most necessary
law  with its cold grip upon her. It
would have no mercy, would not even comprehend.

It \'oiild force her to stand a
criminal trial, and submit her to slow torture,
with all its crushing legal machinery
in motion, wringing her poor spirit as the
rack wrings the flesh! The law would only
comprehend the fact that he was dead and
sie killed him. The how, why, and wherefore
must he worked out in accordance with
legal views. The most merciful result
would send her to suffer and to die, as she
had been horn, in a lunatic asylum! This
dread had been the haunting horror of her
life. She viust be saved from that, from
everything ! He thought only of her and
for her. Past, present, and future were all
merged in the one thought  " Clarice."

To the day of his death, the doings of that
and the next few hours came to him only asa
mist of broken memories; he could remember
nothing distinctly. He seemed to
be out of himself, and only dimly conscious

of a miserable, bare-headed, haggard-looking
man flying away from something, with a
wan, white woman  hastily wrapped in a
mantle, half insensible, and moaning faintly
  in his arms, her golden hair streaming
over his shoulders as he hurried along
through the cool, moonlit night, through
the peace and quiet of the sleeping world,
with his brain on fire, and one wild fear
tugging at his heart. The way seemed so
long, so endless ; but he reached the shore
at last.

The dimpled waters ran and curled in low,
moonlit ripples at his feet, and there was
the Firefly calmly riding at anchor not
very far from the land. It was some little
time  indeed, the first grey dawn was slowly
creeping down from the skies  before he
succeeded in attracting the attention of
those on board. Eating and fuming inwardly,
every moment glancing fearfully

rouucl lest any living soul might be about,
he waited. Every minute seemed to hold
an eternity of time ; but as the dawn approached
the crew were on the alert, and a
little boat speedily came skimming across
the water to carry them out to the yacht.

* Quick! weigh anchor, and out to sea,"
was the first order uttered as his foot
touched the deck.

Katrina was there, and with questioning
wonder and terror in her eyes, received the
seemingly lifeless body of her young mistress
in her arms.

They stopped several times on the way to
take in provisions ; and knowing that every
endeavour would be made to trace the
vessel. Jack had her name, The Firefi/,
painted out, and The Daffodil painted in
its stead. Thus they managed to escape
detection.

Shorn of its tragic details, the simple fact

was all lie told to Clarice  told with the
tenderest affection and the most compassionate
sympathy.

She heard it with hands close clenched
and head lowed down ; her breast heaved
as though labouring with her struggling
breath, but she said nothing. Her very
soul was shaken and convulsed with an
agony too deep for words. In speechless,
tearless despair she sat like one carved out
of stone. In moments of supreme suffering
human nature is dumb ; while it is being
dragged through unutterable bitterness it
cannot speak. Jack watched her anxiously.
He had expected a wild, hysterical outburst
according to woman's way; but this tearless,
speechless way of taking his communication
frightened him. Had the blow fallen and
struck her reason? Would it totter and
fall? He shrank from the terrible idea,
touched her gently, and whispered 

''Clarice !"

Then she flung up her arms, and a cry 
such a piercing cry as he hoped never again
to hear from mortal hips  broke fi'om
her 

"Father! Father I " she cried, Hating
her eyes and her whole soul heavenward,
while a torrent of tears, as though falling
from some pent-up fountain, rained down
her cheeks, and the pathos of her voice
touched him to the heart. '' I didn't do it.
Oh I good, kind God, let him lean down
fi'om heaven and hear me. It was not I,
your own Clarice. Father, darling, it was
some evil things that took my hand and
used it ; not I, your poor Clarice. Oh, my
God I " she added, shivering, "it is too
horrible I Jack, do you think he knew, that
he saw vue hand raised against him ; that
his last look was on me; that he carried to
the grave the picture of me  the child he

loved  with mf/ hand Hated against his
precious Hfe ? "

* No, no ! " exclaimed Jack, quickly. ** I
don't think  I am sure he did not know'*

'* But he knows now," she moaned; *she
knows now. The dead are so much wiser
than the living." Then her thoughts darted
across the sea, and in a quickly changing
mood she turned upon Jack angrily. *' And
you left him  left him who so loved us both
left him alone ! Oh, it was base, it was
cruel, to throw your loyalty, truth, and
honour to the winds, to desert him dead
who living was your friend and father  and
all for what?"

* It was for your sake, Clarice," he exclaimed,
deprecatingly.

A flush rose to his cheeks. He felt he
deserved her reproaches; yet it was hard
that she should utter them.

* For my sake ! " she echoed ; * and how

dared you rob me of my sin ? I had a right
to my punishment. It is 'the only thing
God has left me," she added, despairingly.
' I will go and take it, tell all the truth, and
show my hand  this hand red with his dear
life's blood  and then die ! "

'' Clarice, spare yourself," said Jack,
earnestly. '' You are no more guilty than
I. We are not accountable for what we do
in our sleep. As well hold us responsible
for our dreams."

'' There must be some devil in me hiding
away somewhere that made me do it. Who
knows ? " she added, with a strange glitter in
her eyes, perhaps he has not done with
me yet! It is no use to tell me I am innocent.
Jack."

'* But you are innocent, my darling. He
knows all now, and if he could speak, it
would only be to comfort you."

 I know it  I know it ! God bless him ! "

VOL. III. 16

she exclaimed, her eyes softening beneath
their veil of tears. Then her erratic thoughts
flew off, and she added, " But he can't
speak ; he can't come back, and I shall
never hear his voice again. Ah ! but I
think I shall. That last  Good night ; God
bless you, darling,' will ring in my ears
always. We must go back to Penally at
once, Jack ; do you hear? at once. And I
will tell all the truth to all the world, and
lie will forgive me. Perhaps he is waiting
for me there. He does not know that he is
dead ! And I shall see him, I feel I shall,
standing there with his kind eyes smiling ashe
watched me up the stairs."

A rapt expression crept into her face
as though he had shaken off his graveclothes
nat stood before her a vision of
himself

*' Come, come into the house, Clarice; it
is past midnight. The dews are falling, and

if you are ill you will not be able to start at
all."

*' Ay, that's true ; but we start tomorrow,
Jack," she added, peering curiously in his
face. "You promise that? We start tomorrow
! "

' Yes, if you will have it so, tomorrow,"
he answered, with a weary, bitter sigh.

In her excitement she hurried, almost
dragged him to the house, as though she
would overtake tomorrow before its hour
had come.

UNTO THIS LAST !

ALL night Clarice lay tossing restlessly
on her hed ; occasionally she dozed
drowsily for a space, then started up, eagerly
inquiring ''if it was not almost morning."


All night the faithful Katrina watched
by her, as she had watched through many
a night before, with sore misgivings and
sorrow in her heart. Towards daybreak
Clarice fell into a quiet sleep, which lasted
some hours ; when she woke the glad sun

was streaming in at her window, its fingers
of light toying daintily with her golden hair.
She called hurriedly to her nurse.

* Make haste  we must dress quickly,
Katrina. We are going to start for home
to-day ! Jack has promised, and he always
keeps his word."

She started up in her bed, swayed to and
fro, then fell back upon her pillow gasping
for breath. '' Wait  wait a minute  I am
not so strong as I thought. I shall be
better soon  don't go  and  don't tell
Jack ! "

She had scarcely uttered the last words
when she fainted dead away, and all their
efforts failed to recover her. They sent for
the nearest doctor, who knew better how to
deal with the case ; but even he, with all
his resources, was some time before he could
recall her to consciousness. When he at
last succeeded, she was weak and vague.

and wandering, but her wandering thoughts
were all bent upon the coming journey.

The doctor looked grave. She had sustained
some very severe shock to the nervous
system, he said; and that, combined with
her normally fragile delicate state, was at
least alarming. She would require great
care, and must be kept very quiet  free from
all excitement. Obedience to the doctor's
instructions in this matter was almost impossible.
It is a difficult thing to keep an
excitable patient quiet ; you may curb the
tongue, bind the limbs, rein in the speech,
but you cannot control the brain, and keep
that from working ; indeed it cannot control
itself. To please Jack, Clarice would refrain
from talking, at least from talking much,
and be still and quiet. So she lay for some
days, the brain seeming clearer; but the
frail beautiful body grew weaker and weaker,
and the voice fainter day by day, while the

eager longing to return home lessened and
lessened, till she ceased to speak of it.

One day, when Jack and the doctor had
remained in the adjoining room conferring
together longer than usual, and Jack
returned with a sad-stricken expression of
countenance, which he could not for the
moment control, Clarice glanced at him
sharply.

You've been talking about me. Jack ! "
she said. 'rit is no use your turning away
your head. What does the doctor say ? "

He says that I must not think of taking
you back to England yet  you are not fit to
travel," he answered, looking miserably
conscious that he was telling only half the
truth.

He says something else. Jack. He says
I am traveling to another world ! I know
it  and I am travelling fast too, thank God !
thank God ! I did not think He would take

me away so soon ! " and her pale face
lightened with a smile.

show can you be glad?" said Jack,
reproachfully, 'when you are leaving me
wretched and alone ! "

No, no ! it is only while I am here that
you are miserable. I have always been a
trouble to you, dear, kind old Jack!" she
added, tenderly laying her thin white hand
in his broad brown palm. " You've been so
kind and good ! and I  I have given you
nothing but pain and grief always  and then
this last"  she shuddered and closed her
eyes for awhile; then she added, "Jack,
when I am gone, you will feel like Christian
when he dropped his burden from his
back!"

Oh, Clarice darling, don't talk so ! live !
I am sure you can live, if you will only try."

Why should I try ? How could I live,
you foolish fellow ! Can't you understand

that to me J life would be far crueller than
death ! You must know that. I am glad
to go  glad  for I shall see him again there ;
shall walk with him hand in hand beyond
the stars, and tell him  but he knows, he
knows I My great anguish and misery is
all past, Jack ! I suppose it is because I
shall see him again so soon ! "

She lay dreamily back, looking out upon
the beautiful white orange groves. Jack's
haggard eyes were fixed upon her with
yearning hopelessness ; he could not control
his voice to speak. After a while she
reached out her hand and lifted her eyes to
his, saying 

"I don't want to go quite yet  not quite
yet, Jack ! I want you to do something
for me  something to make me quite happy
before I die  will you do it ? "

'' There is nothing on earth I would not
do! What visit, dear?"

*' Telegraph to Hugh ! tell him to come
soon  at once ! "

She saw his face fall, and added with
eager pleading  '' Be good to me to the
last  you won't fail me now ! "

'No," he answered, and went straightway
to do her bidding.

This was the bitterest task of all ! her last
thought  her last look  her last word, would
be for  that other ! Well, life seemed dreary
work all round just now, and one pain more
or less, what did it matter ? He tried to persuade
himself that it mattered not at all, so
that she was content. For years and years
Clarice had been his life  his world. He
had thought of her before himself always.
It was only natural it should be so to the
end. He would never fail her, even in this
last desire. The telegram thus sent, bidding
him come at once to Florida, was that which
had caused Hugh Spencer such exuberant

joy. " News at last ! " he had shouted to
the empty air, his heart bounding with
hope new-born.

Jack knew that Clarice hated to see him
look gloomy, so he summoned all the cheerfulness
he could into his face, and answered
her questioning eyes and set her mind at
rest. The next morning came the answering
telegram. It ran thus 

** Coming. I start at once."

' How long before he can be here ? " she
inquired, in low, failing tones.

' My darling, I am afraid we cannot
expect him in less than two weeks," he
answered.

'' So long," she moaned, turning her head
restlessly from side to side. * Oh, Jack!
hold me fast  don't let me go  keep me till
he comes ! "

"I will, dear, I will!" he answered;
though he knew full well as he made the

promise that no human power could keep
her long from what was coming.

*' If you hadn't brought me away I should
be with him now ! " she moaned. '' If I go
before he comes it will be your fault  all
your fault."

'for God's sake, don't reproach me!"
he exclaimed, as he fell upon his knees
beside her bed, his strong, manly face
working with suppressed emotion.   Perhaps
it was a blunder ; but I did it for the best 
God knows I did ! Clarice dear, tJiinJc what
I have to bear ! a wry word from yotc goes
through my heart like a knife."

Never before, nor ever after, did Jack's
strength of manhood so utterly break down.

Clarice now reproached herself more bitterly
than she could have reproached him.
She threw her arms round his neck, and
exclaimed, with all the passion her feeble
strength allowed 

'' Forgive me ! I didn't mean it  how
could I ? I wouldn't vex you for the world
dear, faithful old Jack ! You have been
only too good  too true ! You have wasted
your life on me, and I wasn't worth it 
I wasn't worth it ! " She took his hand and
laid her cheek caressingly upon it, and looked
in his face with a little tender smile that
had lost none of its old witchery. '' You've
spoilt me always, and I  I've given you
nothing hut pain. Still, you must spoil me
to the end. Oh, Jack ! what should I do
without you ! "

The exertion and excitement were almost
too much for her ; from that day she rarely
spoke, rarely moved; she lay still, white
and wan and weak. She seemed to be
nursing her poor little light of Hfe as
though she thought, "It must not go out
till he comes." She kept the telegram
under her pillow, and read and re-read it

again and again ; and so the monotonous
days and hours passed. This breathless
watching and waiting were hard to bear ;
care, anxiety, and long, weary watching
were beginning to tell upon Jack's iron
nerves, for he looked haggard and worn,
like the shadow of himself.

At last the day dawned when it was
possible, if all had gone favourably by land
and sea, Hugh Spencer might arrive. She
knew it, for she had watched the days go by
with eager eyes. She had lain still and
silent so long, but now she seemed to have
gathered all her failing energies together ;
her nerves were quivering with excitement,
 her eyes glittered, and a pink flush suffused
the cheeks that were so wan and pale. They
opposed her in nothing now, and she insisted
on being dressed, and was particular
in the selection of what she would wear.
Strange that she should give so much care

to her toilette so near the last, but she did,
and was very difficult to please, too. She
would have on one of her cream-coloured
morning dresses, with clouds of filmy lace
and ribbons about it ; a lace shawl was
thrown over her golden head, and she was
carried out and laid on her couch under the
orange trees, at a point where she would
get the first glimpse of Hugh's coming ashe
passed through the city gates.

How long the hours seemed ! The day
wore on ; she kept her eyes fixed with
painful intensity on the road that he would
come. She held Jack's hand tightly clasped,
and would not let him stir fi'om her
side.

' He ought to be here now," she whispered,
with trembling lips. 'nothing has
happened ! you don't think anything could
have happened to him ? "

*' No, no ! he will be here soon, I am

sure  very soon. The boat may have been
a little late, dear."

The long, level rays of the low-lying sun
lay sharply upon the ground  it would soon
set. Her clasp tightened upon his hand as
she exclaimed 

 Isn't that a carriage  just coming
through the city gate ? "

Jack shaded his eyes and looked. Yes,
there certainly was a ramshackle something
jolting along the road. As it came nearer
they recognized the one solitary figure of a
man within it.

' Oh, how it creeps ! how it creeps ! He
might make haste," exclaimed Clarice.

It came nearer and nearer still, and as it
stopped at the gate a young lithe fellow
sprang out of it, and, glancing eagerly
round, caught sight of the light dress
among the orange trees.

With an exclamation of delight and a

bright joyous face, he ran eagerly towards
it. Jack Avoid have gone forward to greet
him, hut Clarice held him back.

"No  me first!" she exclaimed, in a
voice almost inaudible, so shaken by emotion.


Hugh came bounding forward, his face
aglow with happy smiles.

A flash that seemed to have almost a
sound of light for the moment transfigured
her face. She rose to her feet !  she, dio
for two whole weeks had scarcely lifted a
finger, stood straight up with outstretched
hands, and in another moment, with a
joyful exclamation, Hugh's arms were round
her ; and so, clasped in each other's arms,
only a babble of broken, loving words fell
from their lips.

With a bitter sigh Jack turned away  he
was not needed there ; and he went for a
solitary stroll among the orange trees, keep-vol.

in. 17

ing near enough to be within hail in case he
might be wanted.

The first ecstatic moment of meeting
over, the flush of excitement faded from
her face and left it ashen pale ; her
strength left her, and, with half-closed eyes,
she lay limp and helpless in his arms.

With an exclamation of anxiety he laid
her on the sofa.

Jack hurried forward.

'' What is it ? " inquired Hugh ; *' is she
ill?"

His voice brought the colour back to her
cheeks, and, speaking low and faint with
laboured breath, she answered him 

'*I am dying, Hugh! my bright, beautiful
Hugh!" Her eyes lingered with yearning
tenderness on his face  ' I only waited 
God let me stay  He would not take me till
you had come ! "

' What does she mean ? What have you

been doing to her ? " he exclaimed, making
his bewildered appeal to Jack  who answered
nothing, only looked grave, and
adjusted the cushion at her head. Xo
words could have been so eloquent as that
silence was.

*' My God I can it be true ! " he muttered
in an undertone, gazing on her with shocked,
despairing eyes. "Oh, my love! my darling
! you will live now that I have come ! "

' No," she said; " I only waited for this.
I could not die till I had seen you once
more. I am glad  glad to go ! If you
knew  if you only knew, you would shrink
from me  that would be worse than death.
Don't tell him, Jack  don't tell him  till
I've gone ! "

Hugh groaned in spirit. What did it all
mean  the few first bright, happy love-das,
then that long, terrible waiting  one thrill
of hope and joy, now  this !

*' Don't forget me, Hugh  at least, not
too soon! I've so much to say," she added,
her fingers straying among his brown curls,
'' but I've so little breath ; we'll talk more
tomorrow. Lift me up  there, so  I want
to see the sunset."

He lifted her up, keeping his arm round
her. Her head drooped upon his breast ;
her eyes were upturned to his face  not
seeking the sunset ; then they closed rest-fully
 and feebly, blindly, she reached one
Idle, wan hand out to Jack.

Silent and miserable these two men sat
watching as the breath came soft and low
through her half-parted lips. They neither
stirred. Her head was on Hugh's breast ;
her hand lay cold and passive in Jack's
faithful clasp.

' She is sleeping," whispered Hugh ;
' don't you think  that  perhaps she will
be better when she wakes ? "

*' Perhaps ! " answered Jack, briefly.

But the curtain fell slowly upon the last
act of her tragic life. She never woke
again.

ON that evening, under the shadow of the
orange trees, Hugh Spencer heard the
elucidation of that tragic mystery which
had so perplexed the world of Penally, and
set the vigilance of the police authorities at
naught. In hushed tones the one spoke 
and in awestruck, sorrowing silence the other
listened ; and though their lips did not
speak the words, their hearts blessed God
that all was well with her at last. Life
would have been one long scene of remorseful
torture. Death gave her rest and peace.

Carrying out her own desire, they left her
there in that lovely 'eland of flowers." She
had so often expressed her horror of" taking
the dead upon their travels."

The two men, Hugh and Jack, grew to
be fast friends ; the dead gui was a link
between them. Both had loved, both
grieved for her, and each grasped the hand
of the other with a feeling that was stronger
than mere commonplace friendship for '' her
dear sake."

They went home to England together,
and down to Penally, where Jack found
many most melancholy duties awaiting him.
He was greeted with cordial sympathy and
geniality wherever he went. The Eectory
opened its doors to him, and insisted on his
remaining its guest. Mrs. Spencer, in his
behalf, extended the operations of her larder,
and though she half ruined herself in one
way, she had a very shrewd idea of recouping

herself in another. Mniam helped to
make then' fireside home to him. She let
her musical genius rest in the shade  that
would, hy contrast, have jarred too much
upon his feelings ; hut she was always ready
to talk to him of Clarice. He found in
her a most congenial companion, and by
degrees began to realize in her society a
quiet content. Talking of Clarice led them
to talk of themselves ; and when Jack left
on either a long or short visit to London, a
consignment of books, magazines or music,
&c., arrived at regular intervals at the
Rectory. And Miriam  well, there was sunshine
in her heart as well as on her face !
Her spring days opened bright with promise ;
and there we leave her.

In the common course of events, M,
Lemaire grasped all he had coveted  nay
more, for as his daughter's legitimate heir
he inherited all that Mr. Fleming had

bequeathed to her. ' Such is the irony of
fate ! " He did not, however, long enjoy
his triumph ; his evil genius lay in wait, and
before he had well entered into possession,
one dark night he walked into a deep pond
on his own grounds, and was drowned and
smothered in the mud thereof.

