eli B Mary

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS



V.I

?

jFiSje gears of an Uneventful life

BY

JOANNA HARRISON

VOL. I.

Honiton

MACMILLAN AND CO.


[// rights reserved



V. I

CM PART I,

( VOL. I.

On the Home farm some watch the ploughman's furrow,
And talk of bullocks and the price of oats. '

'A QUARTER-past five,' said Elsie Ross,
and no post yet.'

The letters at Rossiee were usually brought
in with the kettle at afternoon tea-time  the
only post in the day, strange as it may seem
to the southern reader.

'Not that I expect anything  but 
here it is  and  yes ! there is one for me.
Not from Fraulein  from  I don't know
whom.'

She opened the letter, which was rather
long, and adorned with numerous dashes,
flourishes, and points of exclamation ; and
read it thoughtfully.

to leave your Scottish home, and

find a resting-place under our roof, where,

I need not say, you will receive a true
Welcome ! '

To leave my Scottish home ! ' said
Elsie to herself. ' I won't,  and yet, perhaps
'

Elsie, do you want to see the new bull ?'
said a gruff, an exceedingly gruff, voice in the
passage.

I do, papa,' said Elsie, jumping up and
thrusting the letter into her pocket. ' Can't
give my mind to it now, but he II need to be
consulted. I'll speak to him at dinner ; at
least, I will if he likes the bull'

Rossiee was a small old-fashioned house on
the north-east coast of Scotland. Very lonely ;
for, except in the little fishing town of St.
Ethernans, the Rosses had no neighbours
within ten miles. There was an old castle
on a crag close by, and a fine rocky line of
shore ; a bad coast for fishermen, and many a
herring-boat had been lost upon those rocks
in the fierce north-eastern gales.

Inland the country was well farmed, and
looked thriving, if somewhat bleak. A blue

line of hills bounded the view on the north
and west.

The Rosses were an old family, though
the property was small. It was strictly
entailed on heirs-male, and for hundreds of
years a Ross of Rossiee had not been wanting
to carry on the direct line of descent, soit
was naturally a great disappointment to the
present Laird that his only child should be a
girl. Mrs. Ross had died when Elsie was
only five ; she was now seventeen, and Captain
Robert Ross was still a widower.

Elsie had often been told that her father
was likely to marry again ; indeed she had
many times been solemnly prepared for this
event by her too far-seeing relatives, until,
as she herself said, she was tired of the subject,
and had ceased to expect anything to
come of it. Yet now, at the beginning of
our story, something is going to come of it ;
and to poor Elsie it is something of a blow.

Captain Ross was not by any means attractive,
either in appearance or manners.
His little daughter had often looked at the

lovely picture of her mother which hung in
the drawing-room, and wondered why she
married him. It was a sweet sad face, and
the child had inherited something of its wistful
expression.

But the second wife Captain Ross had
chosen, if indeed he could be said to have
chosen her, was very different from the highbred
graceful lady in the picture.

Preserve me, Robert ! what can you see
in yon woman ? ' exclaimed his Aunt Grizel,
when he first announced his engagement to
Miss Euphemia Webster.

I don't see anything in her,' replied
Robert briefly, ' but I must marry somebody.
Why not a healthy young woman in
the neighbourhood ? '

It is scarcely fair to Elsie,' said the old
lady gravely.

But Robert walked away with a few inarticulate
growls, probably to the effect that
if Elsie chose to be a girl instead of a boy,
she must take the consequences. Captain
Ross's thoughts, however, were at present

much more occupied with his cattle than
with his future bride ; and the new bull's
arrival was an all-important event in his
eyes.

Elsie hastily caught up her old straw hat
from the table, and with her little brown
dachshund ' Hans,' pursued her parent, who,
without waiting for her, had already nearly
reached the farmyard.

Where have they put him, papa } ' said
Elsie. ' Must we go through the byre ?
Hans ! come here at once.'

The Laird eyed his daughter contemptuously
as she carefully picked up the reluctant
Hans. ' Put down that brute, can't you,' he
growled, ' the cattle won't touch him.'

Papa, he'd never come in, he hates the
cattle  they breathe at him. He would only
stay outside and lose me, and eat dead rats
and things.'

A useless fool ! ' said the Laird, as he
unwound the last twist of tarred string which
fastened the byre door  ' I'll have it destroyed.'


Elsie, quite unmoved by this threat, followed
her father as he strode past the long
line of fat cattle to the bull's enclosure, which
was fenced off by a wooden rail. Here they
found the grieve and the cattle-man standing
in easy attitudes contemplating the new
arrival. The cattle-man moved a little to
one side and touched his cap in silence ;
Sandy, the grieve, who was a privileged
person, fond of long words and long harangues,
merely waved his hand bull-wards,
and addressed his master  ' A grand baste
yon, Captain ! Just rin your eye over him.
There's a symmetry ! He's a perfect pictor
far afore the Drumsheugh bull ! '

The Laird made no reply in words, but
with a stolid air he prodded the big shorthorn
hard with his stick, leaving a round patch of
red mud on its glossy skin. His countenance
was carefully divested of all expression whatever;
a sure sign to Elsie that her father
was more than satisfied. This was, she
knew, his way of showing the most lively
delight ; when displeased, his face had no

lack of expression, but he never smiled, and
seldom laughed except in the bitterest irony.
The Laird was not blessed with the sweetest
of tempers, yet he was really, in the main, a
kind-hearted man. He would never do a
cruel thing to man or beast, though he would
utter the most blood-curdling threats on the
smallest provocation.

He was a middle-sized man, verging on
fifty ; heavily built, though not stout ; rugged
featured and fresh coloured. He wore an
excessively old brown coat and hat ; his
corduroy trousers were tied below the knee ;
his legs encased in marvellously strong
gaiters well splashed with mud.

Elsie stood by his side, her pretty hands
resting on the paling : she had deposited her
dog in an empty cattle-trough, out of harm's
way. She scarcely looked as if she could be
that rough man's daughter  a tall, very
slender figure, with a soft pale face and large
blue-gray eyes. Her thick hair was wound
in heavy plaits round her little head ; fair
shining hair, which yet looked almost dark

against the pure paleness of her skin. Elsie's
dress was far from being of a fashionable or
expensive kind ; yet in her short blue serge
gown and yellow petticoat she might have
stepped straight out of some old picture.

He is a beautiful bull, papa, and he does
not look as if he would ever become fierce.'

The bull's perfect good humour under the
repeated and severe prods of the Laird
prompted this last remark from Elsie ; and,
the examination being satisfactorily concluded,
the party prepared to leave the byre.

The dinner at Rossiee that evening was an
unusually cheerful meal ; the Laird was in
his best mood, and Hans was permitted to
be of the party. Elsie never brought him
into the dining-room if her father was at all
out of humour ; he would not hurt him, she
knew, but she did not like to hear her dog
reviled, and his life threatened, by her irascible
parent. Hans, who had no proper
pride, and who was exceedingly sagacious
where food was concerned, sat close to the
Laird, gazing at him admiringly, and with

glistening eyes, waiting patiently for the
cheese-rind which the master of the house
seldom failed to bestow on him.

Elsie's thoughts were intent upon the
letter she had received that afternoon ; and
she was about to introduce the subject when
a sudden question from her father made her
start.

Is this Lent ?' he demanded.

No, papa. Lent is over. This is Easter
week.'

That's a good thing ! ' said the Laird.

Elsie wondered what had produced this
sudden interest in Church matters.

He never goes to church,' thought she,
and I do not see that he mortifies the flesh ;
I am sorry Lent is over if he wishes todo
so.'

Why, papa } ' she asked rather timidly.

'Affects the cattle-markets,' was the reply.
You might have known that.'

Papa, I have had a letter from my Aunt
Caroline  Mrs. Lindsay, you know, in England.'


What does she want ? ' said the Laird,
helping himself to fish.

She asks me to go and stay at Chipping-ham
 to pay them a long visit.'

Captain Ross laid down his fork and
looked at his daughter.

Do you want to go ? ' he asked.

I think,' said Elsie, lifting her eyes courageously
to his, ' I should like to go away fora
while  just now.'

I don't see that you could do better,' said
her father, after a short pause. This reply
was unexpected ; and in spite of Elsie's desire
to go away, and thus avoid living with her
future stepmother, it gave her a sudden
pang.

Does he wish to get rid of me ? ' she
thought. But the Laird's next remark,
though only muttered as if to himself, reassured
her.

'Wouldn't agree, of course  can't expect
better out of that.'

Of course I would come back,' said Elsie
a little appealingly. Here Bella, the 'table-maid,'

entered with a dish, and there was a
short silence.

Papa, what sort of a person is Aunt
Caroline ? ' asked Elsie when they were alone
again.

I don't suppose there's any harm in the
woman,' returned the Laird. ' Mad, you
know  quite mad. She's got some sort of a
religious craze.'

And my uncle ? Is he religious too ? '

How should I know ? He didn't use to
be, but I daresay she has given it him by
this time.'

He spoke as though religion were a
mental disease of an infectious nature, but
Elsie knew his manner, and the supposed
insanity of her relations caused her no
anxiety.

When do you want to go ' ' he asked
presently.

Aunt Caroline wishes me to come as soon
as may be convenient. You have never told
me,' she added, with an effort to speak unconcernedly,
'what day you are to be married.'

End of next week,' said the Laird, rising.
You had better start on Tuesday or Wednesday.
Go and see the old lady tomorrow,
and make arrangements.'

Aunt Grizel ? ' said Elsie. ' Very well,
papa ; ' and the conversation ended.

The day is over,
The feverish careful day ;

Can I recover
Strength that has ebbed away ?
Can even sleep such freshness give
That I again should wish to live?'

Elsie had gone to bed that night with a
troubled mind. Until now she had had no
idea of leaving her home, and although she
knew her father's marriage must take place, she
could generally manage to put the thought
of it away from her. Now, however, that
which had seemed to be in the dim future
was close at hand ; she must think and act
for herself; and she felt as if life were one
great battle, and she had no strength to
face it.

The night was wet and stormy, and the
dismal sound of the wind and rain against

her window, and the dull roar of the sea,
served to depress her still more. She soon
fell asleep, however, and slept soundly ; the
storm passed away through the night, and
when she awoke, refreshed, in the cheery
April sunshine, half her cares had vanished.

I have a great deal before me,' she
thought ; * the house must be left all in
order. I shall have to see about it all. It
would never do to have anything untidy
when Euphemia comes. Then there's Aunt
Grizel this afternoon, and  I ought to go
and call on Euphemia. It is my duty, and
I'll do it ! ' she added heroically, brushing
her hair with extra vigour. 'It is due to
her to let her know I am going away. Poor
soul ! I daresay she will be thankful. '

The sound of a bell interrupted these
reflections. ' Prayers ! ' exclaimed Elsie in
dismay ; ' I shall be late. That comes of
good resolutions when one is dressing ! '
She finished with all speed, and hurried to
the dining-room, at the door of which the
servants were already waiting.

Since the departure of her governess, six
months before, Elsie had made it a rule to
read prayers to the household every morning.
Her mother, she was told, had been accustomed
to do so ; and Elsie thought it washer
duty, though it caused her no little
anxiety and dread. She was far too shy tolet
her father even knows that such was her
custom ; so, as the Laird did not like to be
kept waiting for his breakfast even for a
moment, she would beg him not to come in
till after 'the second bell,' thereby artfully
leading him to suppose that the first bell
meant nothing, and was but an empty
form.

Elsie chose a short Psalm that morning,
then read the prayer for the day from an
old-fashioned book of family prayers which
she had hunted out of the garret.

Scarcely had she reached the second
paragraph when a heavy footstep was heard
in the passage. Elsie skilfully omitted a
long petition for the conversion of the Jews,
arrived rather abruptly at Amen, and rose,
VOL. I. c

just as the sound of the approaching footsteps
stopped outside the door. She looked
round  the servants were still on their knees ;
they were waiting for the concluding prayer.
She seized the book once more, and shut it
with a loud clap  in vain ! they would not
take a hint ; the three backs remained
immovable in their devout posture. Elsie
would not hurry over the Lord's Prayer ; it
would not be right, she felt, so she repeated
it slowly and reverently, though with a beating
heart, and lo ! as by a miracle, the creaking
footsteps turned away from the door ; it
never opened, and the Laird went off in
another direction. Nor did he appear until
Elsie had in some measure recovered herself;
she had even finished her plate of
porridge, and put aside the portion destined
for Hans, to be kept till his own proper
dinner hour. She could not help, however,
feeling an uneasy dread that the Laird had
been listening at the door (which indeed was
the case); she suffered all the pangs of a
guilty conscience ; yet, when he did come in,

he made no remark on the subject, and did
not seem any gruffer than usual.

When are you going to see your aunt
to-day?' he inquired during breakfast. 'Til
order the pony for you.'

Miss Griselda Ross was the Laird's aunt
as well as Elsie's, but he never made use of
the pronouns we, our, us ; it would be
beneath him, as it were, to speak in the first
person plural, and thus place himself on a
level with the inferior beings he addressed.

Elsie said she would go in the afternoon.
Her mornings were usually spent in household
cares, and to-day she was particularly
anxious to get everything into proper order
before her stepmother's arrival.

The household at Rossiee consisted of
three women-servants  Marjorie, the cook,
a sort of fixture in the family, who had been
there since Elsie was a baby ; Janet, who
attended upon her, and was also the housemaid
 a good-natured, rather stupid girl;
and Bella, the tableland. The last was a
good-looking young woman with a temper ;

she belonged to that class of persons who
never make a mistake, in their own estimation
at least, and cannot bear the slightest
word or even hint of disapproval. She was
a clever girl, and did her work well ; but this
characteristic rendered her decidedly trying,
and she and her mistress had occasional
disputes.

Bella,' said Elsie that morning, appearing
suddenly in the pantry after breakfast, ' I
noticed last night at dinner that there are
holes in the cheese napkin. You must really
fasten it lower down  the Captain is so apt
to cut it in taking off the rind for Hans.'

Bella surveyed the cheese  a tall Stilton,
bound round with a napkin. The holes were
undeniable.

It'll be the mice that have done it,' said
she.

The mice ?' said Elsie ; ' nonsense, Bella !
it is cut with a knife. Look at it yourself.'

Bella gloomily regarded it.

It was just the mice,' she repeated.

It was not the mice,' said Elsie warmly ;

would the mice eat the napkin and leave
the cheese ? I just ask you that, Bella !'

It was nothing but the mice,' said Bella
doggedly.

'And I say it was not the mice,' cried
Elsie. ' Do not let me hear you say it was
the mice again.'

Bella took up the cheese, examined it all
round, and set it down again.

'The mice,' said she.

Bella,' said Elsie, who felt now that her
dignity was at stake, ' I forbid you to say the
mice. I forbid you to use that word. If
you say mice again, I shall be obliged to
part with you. Mend that napkin and put
it on lower down.'

With these words Elsie walked majestically
away, not venturing to turn round again,
although she fancied she still heard ' mice '
murmured faintly behind her.

Her next visit was to the kitchen, which
was one of the most cheerful rooms in the
house, so clean and fresh and bright was it ;
for Marjorie prided herself on never letting

a speck of dust remain anywhere ; and her
brass pans shone Hke gold, ranged along the
warm-coloured buff walls. The stone floor
was freshly strewn with sand ; and Marjorie
herself looked the picture of neatness in her
white apron and ' mutch ' and little tartan
shawl.

Marjorie was a calm woman  a great
comfort in that household. A little too apt,
perhaps, to look at the dark side of things ;
but Elsie placed great reliance on her judgment
in all household matters. Things might
be better than Marjorie represented them,
but never could be worse : with this view
she was wont to console herself if anything
went wrong.

I thocht upon the hen for your dinner
the day,' said Marjorie, taking up a fat fowl
from the dresser. *Ye like a hen whiles,
and the Captain, he'll be content wit. I'm
thinking' we'll need a sheep killed gin next
week.'

Next week  yes,' said Elsie, sitting down
on the edge of the table. ' Marjorie  the

Captain's marriage is to be the end of next
week, and I am going away before that 
away to England.'

Keep me ! ' exclaimed Marjorie, as she
laid down the hen and looked at her young
mistress with concern. ' And will ye be lang
wa', Miss Elsie ?'

'I do not know ; I may be,' answered
Elsie rather sadly. ' I am going to stay
with my grand-uncle, General Lindsay. Do
you remember him and l\Irs. Lindsay ? were
they not once here ?'

Ay, I mind them fine. Ye were a wee
bairn then, Miss Elsie.'

'What were they like, Marjorie ?'

'The General was a weel-fa'ard gentleman
; the teddy, she took ill wi' the weet
roads  there had been an awful' heap o' rain.
She had a maid  Parkins they cared her  sic
daft-like names the English have. Eh! the
sykes o' that woman ! The teddy was a wee
thing particular herself', but Parkins !'

Here Marjorie paused, words failing to
express what she had suffered from the

peculiar fancies of the English lady's-maid.


Aweel,' she resumed after a few minutes'
silence, ' I'll be vexed when ye gang, Miss
Elsie ; it'll be an unco change to me. But
maybe ye'll be happier wa', and the Captain,
he'll no be needing' ye sae sir.'

She, too, thinks I had better go,' thought
Elsie. But aloud she only added, ' And you
know, Marjorie, I want to have everything
in order before  Mrs. Ross  comes; that
will be next week. I was speaking to Bella
just now  really she is provoking. She says
there are mice, which eat the napkins.'

Esse-bell ?' said Marjorie with a sort of
sniff (they did not get on together) ; ' I was
thinking' maybe ye had discorded,' she added
soothingly. 'Hoot! never heed Esse-bell.
She's that dour  Mice? there's nae mice.
Make us thankful if there's nae rotten.'

Oh, I hope not!' said Elsie anxiously.
It would be dreadful if rats got into the
house. Do you think they will, Marjorie ?'

I doubt they'll win in, through time,'

replied Marjorie with resignation. ' The
new hen-house is just useless wi' them  a
perfect riddle o' holes, the floor o't. Would
ye please to look at it, Miss Elsie ?'

Elsie thought this report so serious that
she started at once to investigate, taking her
little dog with her.

It may be necessary to give the reader a
short sketch of Hans, who has been so often
mentioned, and on whom Elsie lavished so
much affection. She had long wished to
possess a dachshund, and her governess,
Fraulein Meyer, had good-naturedly brought
one straight from Germany for her, about a
year before.

Elsie was charmed with the little soft
brown puppy, and bestowed on him the
name of 'the discreet Hans,' after the sagacious
hero of Grimm's tale. But Hans did
not turn out quite the pure-bred badger-hound
that her fancy had pictured. He did
not, indeed, grow big, and he had a beautiful
lite head, with large intelligent brown eyes ;
but his curiously misshapen body and enormous

tail, which, in moments of excitement,
swelled out like that of an enraged cat, gave
him a most comical appearance. Hans was
not a brave animal, though he was fond of
sport in a small way. He was afraid of men,
cattle, horses, dogs, cats, and poultry ; and
Elsie, who was a prey to constant anxiety on
his account, used to spend much time and
thought in shielding him from the dangers to
which he believed himself exposed ; as well
as in preventing him from injuring his health
by over-eating. He was, however, devotedly
attached to his little mistress, and would sit
gazing at her for hours, keeping his large
tail outstretched ready to wag at the slightest
glance or sign.

Let it not be supposed that Elsie took
him to the hen-house to kill the rats ; nothing
could have been further from the thoughts of
either of them ; but she seldom went anywhere
without him, except when she rode or
drove, as then his short legs could not carry
him far with any speed.

Elsie and Hans had not far to go, as a

small strip of shrubbery was all that separated
the farmyard from the house ; but Elsie chose
a somewhat circuitous route to the hen-house,
threading her way cautiously amongst the
stacks, and looking out for her secret foe, the
gander. This valiant bird, whose two wives
were at present sitting on eggs, was ready to
fly at all comers, and nourished a particular
enmity against Hans, whom he conceived to
have malicious designs upon his family. Elsie
did not care to risk an open encounter with
him, so she would dodge him round the stacks
'on Hans's account,' she always told herself
when she did so ; though what she would
have done if Hans had not been there maybe
questioned.

To-day she passed the stacks in safety,
and had almost reached the hen-house door,
when the well-known pattering sound behind
her made her turn round in alarm. The
gander had found his enemy intent upon a
haddock's head, and promptly bore down
upon him with outstretched neck and flapping
wings. In a moment Elsie had snatched up

Hans (who, with great presence of mind,
kept hold of the fish's head), and fled ignominiously,
never stopping till she had put
the whole backyard between her and her
pursuer.

Hans, do you wish to be destroyed ? '
said she breathlessly, as she put him down.
For the gander will do it some day, even if
the master does not'

A visit to the hen-house was now out of
the question. ' Why should we expose ourselves
again to his fury?' Elsie said. 'I'll
wait till one o'clock, when he has his dinner.
Come, Hans, we will go into the garden.'

The garden lay to the back of the house,
at the side farthest from the sea, and was
surrounded by a wall of red sandstone. The
house itself was of this material, as were most
of the buildings in that district. It was small,
square, and very narrow for its height ; at
each corner was a little round turret like a
pigeon-house. It looked bare and gaunt
enough, yet not unpicturesque when viewed
from the sea, from which it was only separated

by some broken ground thinly planted with
shrubs, shrivelled and browned by the east
wind. The walls of the house were very
thick, and within the rooms were small and
rather bare of furniture. The drawing-room
was wainscoted and painted white : it looked,
as did all the best rooms in the house, to the
north, for the sake of the really beautiful view
of the little bay and the hills beyond.

Over the mantelpiece hung the portrait of
Elsie's mother, which has been already mentioned
; the only picture in the room, excepta
few black silhouettes of old gentlemen with
pigtails. The walls of the dining-room, however,
were well covered with Ross ancestors ;
and over nearly every door in the house a
stag's head and horns was fastened. The
little entrance hall likewise bristled with these
trophies ; which where used as pegs on which
to hang hats, caps, and greatcoats in various
stages of dilapidation. In one corner stood
the Laird's stick and spud, in another Elsie
kept her gardening tools.

It was here, after an hour's lingering in

the garden, that Elsie stopped short, struck
by the sight of a strange hat and umbrella,
and, a minute later, Bella met her in the
passage. ' Please, ma'am, Mr. Macrae is
here, and the Captain has ordered luncheon
at one o'clock,' said she primly.

'Tiresome man!' thought Elsie; 'but, at
any rate, I cannot go to the hen-house this
day.' She went to the drawing-room to put
the bunch of pale late-flowering daffodils she
had gathered in water, and when the luncheon-bell
rang, was joined by her father and Mr.
Macrae, the family lawyer.

Elsie had known the latter from her childhood,
and looked upon him as a sort of
necessary evil. He had a red face, reddish
whiskers, a loud cheerful voice, and an excellent
opinion of himself; he was nevertheless
a capital man of business, and very useful to
the Laird, by whom he was much esteemed.

How do you do, Mr. Macrae ? ' Elsie
said, giving him her hand, not without a
certain little air of condescension. ' I hope
Mrs. Macrae is well.'

She's well, I thank you, Miss Ross,'
returned Mr. Macrae. ' I hope I see you
well. I hear you are about to leave us 
to wing your flight, as one may say,
southwards. Yes ! yes ! England's a fine
country. '

I am sure it is,' said Elsie, ignoring the
first part of this speech. ' And much warmer,
I suppose, than here, though this is not a
backward season.'

'The vegetation,' said Mr. Macrae, 'is
indeed pretty well advanced. The grass
parks are commencing to asshoom an appearance
of verdure. Your fields, Captain, I see,
are all sown, with the exception of the
turnips. Lord Ochil was mentioning to me,
last time I saw him, that his carrot crop had
not been such a failure last year.'

No one but a fool would have tried to
grow carrots on a clay soil,' growled the
Laird. ' / saw them  eaten by worms and
insects and all sorts of devils. I wouldn't
have given his carrots to one of my pigs.'

Mr. IMacrae turned again to Elsie after this

slight rebuff, adapting his conversation to
her feminine mind ; for he prided himself
especially upon his politeness to ladies, his
elegant language, and correct pronunciation.


The bursts are at present very melodious,'
he observed, as a blackbird's fluty
note came in through the open window. ' I
believe. Miss Ross, you are partial to these
little warblers.'

'Yes,' replied Elsie, 'and the thrushes
were singing beautifully this morning. They
are not so scarce as they used to be.'

I am not precisely aware,' said Mr.
Macrae, 'what note the thrush emits. In
England, I am told, the nightingales render
the woods vocal.'

'Will you take some cheese?' said the
Laird impatiently.

'I thank you. Captain  I will trouble
Miss Ross for a little more of her superior
pudding.'

Elsie thought that luncheon would never
come to an end, but at length the Laird

dismissed her to prepare for her ride, and
not keep the pony waiting. She was soon
ready, but before starting she committed
Hans, with much solemnity, to the care of
Janet, admonishing her to keep her eye
constantly upon him. ' Be sure he doesn't
eat the hens' meat, and, above all, keep him
from the pigs' pail !' were her parting words.
Bella has more sense than Janet,' she
reflected as she ran downstairs. ' He might
have been safer with her ; but after the mice,
I don't choose to ask a favour of Bella
to-day.'

The Laird and Mr. Macrae were standing
at the door, where Elsie's handsome brown
pony was already waiting, held by Jamie,
the stable-boy.

Allow me to assist you, Miss Ross,' said
Mr. Macrae, coming forward. 'Your horse
appears a little restive.'

The pony, indeed, was pawing the ground
wildly, as he had a trick of doing when first
brought out. Mr. Macrae kept well out of
the way of his heels, but Elsie was on in a

VOL. I. D

moment, and after a few plunges he started
quietly enough.

'Miss Ross is a fine equestrian, I perceive,'
were the last words she heard as she
rode off.

This night is my departing night,

For here nae langer must I stay ;
There's neither friend nor foe of mine
But wishes me away.'

Elsie thoroughly enjoyed her ride that
afternoon. She rode slowly, for it was
such a sweet spring day, and she wanted to
think and look about her. She had always
had a feeling for natural beauty, but never
till now, when she was about to leave it, had
the scenery around her seemed so lovely.
She trotted gently first over a bare stretch
of road, then, as it entered a small wood,
she pulled up to a walk.

A slight breeze was blowing off the sea ;
it made a soft hushed sound amongst the
fir-trees, which mingled pleasantly with the
cooing of the wood-pigeons. A month later

the wood would be green with tall ferns, but
the fronds had scarcely yet begun to uncurl
their brown balls, and the withered leaves
about their roots gave the ground a russet
shade.

The sun lit up the red stems of the Scotch
firs, and flickered here and there in spots
upon the mossy stones and patches of brown
heather. At the farther edge of the wood
there was a strip of young plantation, and
beyond that again a sort of open moor,
dotted with ' whigs ' and broom-bushes. The
small birds were busy in the young spruce
firs ; Elsie could distinguish their different
notes  the chaffinch's loud cheery song, the
softer call-note of the green Minnie,' the
plaintive chant of the yellow-hammer. Out
upon the moor she heard the sound she
loved to listen to  the wild spring cry of the
curlew, beginning slowly with long notes,
then growing louder and quicker, and dying
away in widening circles of sound.

Beyond the moor the character of the soil
changed ; it had a colder look, and the

ploughed fields were almost gray where the
sun had dried the surface, quite different
from the ' red land ' about Rossiee. The road
wound uphill, and at the top Elsie stood
still to look. Below her, in the hollow, lay
the little gray town of St. Ethernans, the
massive old church, with its square tower
and short steeple, rising up in the midst.
The sea beyond was of a deep bright blue,
and only a line of white surf told of the last
night's storm. The day was clear, and she
could plainly see the lighthouse on the other
side of the bay, and the patches of snow still
shining on the far-off hills.

'Why do I go away?' thought Elsie.
Yet I must, no one seems to want me here.
Shall I ever come back and look at those
hills again } I will say good-bye to them
now, I do not feel as if I ever should.'

The tears rushed to her eyes and blinded
her ; she sat still without troubling to wipe
them away, until the sound of wheels made
her start.

How stupid I am,' she thought ; ' it will

never do to be found crying on the public
road

The pony pricked up his ears at the sound
of the advancing gig ; he rather liked standing
still, unless desired to do so for any
special purpose, but he could not endure
wheels behind him, so Elsie started off at a
brisk trot. She did not pursue the road to
St. Ethernans, but turned down the first
opening to the right, a cart track leading to
the farm of Nether Bogie, which was rented
by Mr. John Webster, brother to Euphemia,
the Laird's destined bride.

The farmsteading was rather a large one,
situated like an island amidst an ocean of
ploughed fields ; without a tree, except one
solitary, wind-blown ash. It boasted a tall
chimney, however, and there were still a
good many stacks. Close to the front door
was a row of hen-coops, each containing a
brood of newly-hatched turkeys ; for Miss
Euphemia was a noted hen-wife, and her
turkeys were always the earliest in the
country. Elsie dismounted, and looked at

the little black and gray chicks with interest ;
then rang the front-door bell. It was presently
answered by a tall, red-haired, awk-
ward-looking girl, who blushed and grinned
shyly as she recognised her visitor.

How are you, Agnes .' said Elsie. 'Is
Euphemia in ?'

Yes ; just come in, please,' replied Agnes.

The pony ?'

ril take him round.'

Elsie went into the dining-room, where
the family usually sat ; the windows were
closely shut, and a peculiar pungent odour,
as of boiled cabbage, pervaded it. The
furniture was black horse-hair ; in the middle
of the room was a large round table, covered
with a green cloth ; on it stood a cut-glass
water decanter, with a tumbler reversed over
it. Around this central ornament a few
books and a photograph album were arranged ;
underneath it was a woollen mat with a
yellow and crimson border. On the mantelpiece,
which was painted green to represent
malachite, were some large foreign shells.

and two or three clay pipes were scattered
about. In a big chair by the fire an old
woman was dozing, wrapped up in shawls ;
she did not look up or speak, and Elsie trod
softly for fear of disturbing her.

Agnes entered in a few minutes, followed
by Euphemia. The latter was older by
some years than her sister ; less awkward,
and without the red hair. She had what
might be called a comely face, and looked
the essence of good temper, but her incessant
simper was to Elsie almost more irritating
than Agnes's open-mouthed stare.

I hope you've not had to wait. Miss
Ross,' said Euphemia as she came forward.
I'm sure I take it very kind  such a long
ride as you've had.'

I wanted to come and see you, Euphemia,'
Elsie replied. ' I suppose it will be the last
time before you come to Rossiee ; but I shall
be away when you come, for I am going to
England.'

Dear me !' exclaimed Euphemia, ' such a
long way ! and all by yourself, Miss Ross !'

'You ought not to call me Miss Ross
now, Euphemia.'

Elsie felt a little shy, which had the
effect of making her manner very stately.
Euphemia simpered and looked down.

'I'm sure,' said she, 'you're very condescending.'


How is Mrs. Blair ?' asked Elsie, violently
changing the subject.

'Oh, pretty well to-day. Agnes, turn
Granny's chair. Granny, here's Miss Ross
asking for you.'

Agnes went behind the wheeled chair and
launched her grandmother at Elsie, who retreated,
feeling sorry she had introduced the
subject.

'Are you keeping better, Mrs. Blair?' she
said, taking one of the limp old hands. But
the poor old woman only grunted feebly, and
was soon replaced in her corner by Agnes.

Elsie then proceeded to explain to the
sisters about her proposed departure ; she
could discern through all Euphemia's sighs
and expressions of regret that her absence

would be a relief to her, while Agnes gazed
at her in silent wonder. She rose at last to
go, declining all offers of refreshment on the
plea that she was going to have tea with
Aunt Grizel.

But a bit of cake ! you'll not refuse a bit
of cake  and a glass of ginger wine ! '

Agnes hurried off, and returned with the
cake-basket  a startling piece of plate, on
which were displayed alternate squares of
shortbread and slices of pound-cake. Elsie
said she never drank wine, but, not to seem
ungracious, she took a bit of the shortbread,
and was sitting down again patiently, when
old Mrs. Blair woke up and began to glare
with frightened eyes round the room.

Wha 's that ? ' she exclaimed, suddenly
fixing them on Elsie. ' The Lord preserve
us ! wha's that ?'

It's Miss Ross that has called. Granny,'
said Euphemia. ' Surely you know Miss
Ross.'

The old lady seemed pacified for the
moment, but the alarm in her eyes revived

as she turned them on Agnes. 'And that ?'
she said, pointing to the latter with a shaking
hand, 'wha's that ?'

Dear, dear me, Grannie !' said Euphemia,
with meek reproach. 'You're very dazed
Hke to-day ! D'ye not know our Agnes ?'

She's like a haddock,' observed Mrs.
Blair, sinking back. ' She's very like a
haddock.'

Dear, dear, dear ! ' sighed Euphemia
again. ' I hope you'll excuse her. Miss
Ross. She's very stupid-like to-day.'

Elsie was making heroic efforts to be
grave and sympathetic. Agnes's expression
at the moment was, she thought, exactly that
of a haddock, and could not have been more
happily described.

Poor Mrs. Blair ! ' she said. ' I am sorry
she is not so well. Good-bye, Euphemia,
good-bye, Agnes.' She shook hands with
each of them, and went up to the old lady.

Ye're a bonny crater,' said Mrs. Blair
with unexpected intelligence. ' I wish ye
weel.'

Elsie felt thankful when she was once
more on horseback, and in the fresh air.
She set off at a quick pace, and soon reached
St. Ethernans. Her aunt's house stood a
little apart, at the end of the long straggling
street ; it had a small plot of ground in front,
planted with thorn and laburnum bushes, and
a good-sized ' back-green ' behind. Elsie left
her pony at the inn a little farther on, and
walked into the house unannounced ; her aunt
had seen her pass and was expecting her.
She received Elsie affectionately, and the
girl found it a relief to pour out the history
of the last days' doings.

Miss Griselda Ross was a lady of considerable
dignity of manner ; tall and thin,
and wonderfully erect, in spite of her seventy-eight
years of age. Her features were
strongly marked, her blue eyes still keen
and bright. The fashion of her dress never
varied, a black gown and large silk apron, a
band of black velvet across her forehead, and
a white cap with lavender ribbons tied under
her chin.

The little parlour was very formal and
plain, but clean, fresh, and airy. To Elsie
it was as familiar and homelike as the
drawing-room at Rossiee ; she regularly spent
her Sundays there, and would come as often
as she could to see her Aunt Grizel on weekdays
also. The stiff little room had looked
exactly the same as long as she could remember,
only in summer the moreen window-curtains
gave place to muslin ones, which
were put up punctually at the ' May term,'
and taken down again at Martinmas. There
was a bookcase, in one shelf of which Elsie
was allowed to keep her Sunday books, and
a corner cupboard contained some old china,
and other curiosities and relics, dear to the
old lady's heart.

Elsie had sat down in her accustomed
position on the rug, and had thrown her hat,
gloves, and riding-whip on a- chair, a piece of
untidiness which for once passed unreproved.

Miss Grizel heard of her approaching departure
without surprise, indeed with evident
approbation.

'Well, my dear,' said she, 'it is right
that you should learn to know your own
people. I was telling Robert  your father
last time he was here, that you need a
change, and there cannot be a better time
than now.'

Papa said that I would be better away,'
said Elsie, and her lip quivered a little.
'Aunt Grizel, do you know I have got a
feeling a presentiment, that if I go to
England I shall never come back  I shall
never see Rossiee again.'

She knelt on the rug as she said this, her
clasped hands resting on her aunt's knee ;
the old lady looked at her uneasily. Miss
Grizel was a firm believer in presentiments,
dreams, omens, and superstitions of all kinds,
but she was not a person who would encourage,
a child in foolish fancies.

Hoots, my dear !' she said almost roughly,
'don't take morbid fancies into your head.
I never heard such nonsense in my life.
You're just tired  you're as white as a
clout. Tuts ! what's come over Elizabeth

with the tea V She rose stiffly and went to
the door.

Elizabeth ! come away, Elizabeth !
haste ye with the tea ! Miss Elsie's tired.'

Why did I speak Hke that ? ' thought
Elsie remorsefully. ' I ought not  Aunt
Grizel is old, it does not do to put her
out.' And a great longing came over the
girl for some one she might speak to, who
was not old like Miss Grizel, nor gruff like
her father, nor doleful like Marjorie, someone
she might talk to without fear of being
reproved or misunderstood.

Aunt Grizel, never mind the tea,' she
said, rising and taking the old lady's hand. ' I
am just a little tired, as you say. Sit down,
and I will read you Aunt Caroline's letter.'
The letter Elsie read was as follows : 

It is with mingled feelings, my dear young
niece, that I take up my pen to write to you.
It is, indeed, impossible that you should remember
nne, but I can never forget seeing
you, then a darling baby in your dear

mother's arms, on the occasion of my rs
and 07ify visit to the country of your birth !
I have heard but lately that your father is
about to form new ties, and, as he will no
longer exclusively need your administering
love, your dear uncle and I now feel that
the time has come when we may induce you
to leave your Scottish home, and find a
resting-place under our roof, where, I need
not say, you will receive a true Welcome !
Your father, to whom your dear uncle and I
beg to offer our kind remembrances, will not,
I trust, disapprove of our proposal, as he
formerly gave us hopes of claiming you at
some future time ; and we shall, dear Elspeth,
anticipate your arrival, as soon as he may
deem it convenient.

It is our earnest wish that your sojourn
with us may be both pleasant and profitable ;
and my hope and prayer, dear child, is, that
our intercourse may be freight with blessings
of the highest kind.  I am, my dear niece,
ever your affectionate aunt and godmother,
Caroline B. Lindsay.'

Elsie read this letter through without
comment, giving the proper expression as
well as she could, and then looked up to
try and read her Aunt Grizel's face ; but the
old lady was busied with the tea-things, and,
outwardly at least, paid no attention.

Here, child ! bring in a chair to the table,
and put in the cream yourself. What sort of
tea-bread has she brought ? Help yourself
to a scone, or see ! there are cookies.'

Elsie helped herself to a scone. Aunt
Grizel's tea was strong and good, and under
its influence her spirits rose visibly, and she
dismissed the gloomy presentiments from her
mind.

Do tell me about Aunt Caroline,' she
said. ' You must know her. Aunt Grizel, she
must be quite unlike any one I ever saw.'

I haven't seen them since they came to
Rossiee that time she speaks of; I used to
know your grand-uncle, the General, very
well long ago. He had a great work with
your mother  she was his favourite niece, he
used to say.'

VOL. I. E .

Tell me about him then, Aunt GrizeL*

There's not much to tell about him. He
was thought very handsome in his youth ;
and he was always a kind good creature.
He didn't marry till he was quite a middle-aged
man. As to your Aunt Caroline, shea
lively, agreeable woman. To be sure she
had always her fancies and her trenches, but
she's a good wife to him.'

Papa says she has got a religious craze,
but he always says that of any one who is at
all pious.'

Your Aunt Caroline is a good woman,
my dear,' said Miss Grizel shortly. 'Always
bear that in mind. She has a great deal of
manner, and she is one of your Frenchified
kind of women ; but I never fell out with her
for my part. I just let her say her say.'

I wonder if I should fall out with
Euphemia, if I lived with her,' said Elsie.
Papa seemed to think I might. He said
he couldn't expect us to agree. Oh, Aunt
Grizel ! what could have made him want to
marry her ? '

Your father was too long of marrying,
my dear,' said Aunt Grizel oracularly. ' He
put off and put off; and when men do that,
Elsie, either they end by never marrying at
all, or they just think that anybody will do.
We may be thankful it's a good girl like
Euphemia Webster that he's taken.'

But she's so stupid, Aunt Grizel ! She
is sure to provoke him in time.'

Euphemia is not stupid, my dear,' said
Aunt Grizel reprovingly. 'She's the best
housewife in the country; she makes excellent
jelly ; she always has the first chickens and
the best turkeys ; and look at her butter ! 
it's beautiful ! And then such a good sister
as she is to her brother and Agnes, and so
kind and dutiful to her poor old grandmother.
She's a very superior girl, Elsie ; it's only
very much to be lamented that she's not in a
higher rank of life, and that she comes of a
Radical family  and, worse than all, she's
Free Kirk. That comes of putting off! '

Is it worse to be Free Kirk than not to
be a lady } ' asked Elsie doubtfully.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

Hoots ! ' said Aunt Grlzel. ' Ring the
bell, Elsie, if you're done.'

The subject of Euphemia being thus dismissed,
the conversation turned upon Elsie's
journey and the necessary arrangements. It
was settled that it would be best for her to
break her journey in Edinburgh, and to stay
a couple of days there with old friends of her
mother's, a Mrs. and Miss Ferguson. An
hour soon passed ; and, after promising to
spend Sunday with her aunt as usual, Elsie
set off home.

Then up bespeak his brother John,
Says, " We've done us meikle wrong, O ;
We've married ane far below our degree,
A mock to a' our kin, O."' '

Miss Grizel could not settle down either
to her stocking-knitting that evening, or to
her reading of good books. She got out of
her arm-chair, and paced up and down the
room ; she undid the shutter, and looked out
into the quiet street, then came back to her
chair, put on her spectacles again and tried
to read, but presently took them off, and laid
them on the table beside her with a sigh.

I doubt if I've altogether done my duty
by that child,' she said to herself. ' I should
maybe have stayed on at Rossiee ; but who
would have thought Robert would be so long
of marrying ? And it was hard to bear,

there's no doubt of that. To go and engage
thon foreign woman for Elsie, and never tell
me! But I fear that's pride. She's grownup
a fine creature, but it's not through the
guiding of me, Grizel Ross. Lord forgive
me ! '

It may be doubted whether the old lady
had quite just cause for all this self-reproach.
Her position had been rather a difficult one.
She had left her little house in St. Ethernans
to nurse Elsie's mother through her last
illness ; and after her death Miss Grizel
remained on at Rossiee, keeping house for her
nephew, as she had done before his marriage.

Captain Ross seemed to take this as a
matter of course ; and as time went on, his
aunt felt it necessary to come to some understanding
with him.

Robert,' said she one day, ' I have been
thinking that I have perhaps stopped long
enough with you.'

I thought you were living here,' replied
Robert. ' Better sell your house in St.
Ethernans.'

But, Robert, if you were ever to turn
your thoughts to marrying again  which
without doubt it is your duty to do  it would
not be my place to remain.'

Robert looked out of the window without
speaking. 'You could please yourself.' he at
length suggested.

'But if my house were sold,' said poor
Miss Grizel, relapsing into Scotch, 'I could
win in.'

Her nephew apparently thought that this
was a trite observation, which needed no
reply, for he made none, and Miss Grizel did
not know how to pursue the subject.

Then about Elsie,' she said after a short
pause. ' She is getting too old for a nurse 
she is nearly six.'

Can a child of six read and write ? ' inquired
Robert.

Elsie can't read, the monkey ! She ought
to, but she will not learn with the nurse. It's
time she had a governess.'

Robert gazed at his aunt for some time
with an impenetrable countenance, then

walked out of the room. A few minutes later
Miss Grizel saw him from the window digging
up thistles in the field with his spud, as
though he had no other object in life.

Mercy ! what use is it speaking to
Robert ?' she said to herself. ' He takes no
more heed to anything you say than a graven
menage. There he is, away lowering in
the wet, angell come in without a dry thread
on him ! That'll not learn Elsie to read, nor
yet provide a house for me.'

Some little time after this the Laird
suddenly observed at breakfast, ' I've got a
what-do-you-call-it for Elsie.'

'A what, Robert ?' exclaimed Miss Grizel,
in great astonishment.

A German one,' continued Robert tranquilly.


'You don't mean a governess .' said Miss
Grizel. ' Oh, Robert ! and never to tell me !
and me been hunting one high and low for
the last three weeks ! Have you engaged her ? '

'Coming tomorrow afternoon,' replied
Robert.

'Well, I wash my hands of you!' said
Miss Grizel, rising in wrath. ' You'll just
ruin your own child, and I had better go
away and leave you. since I am to have no
say in her bringing up.'

The Laird seemed a little disconcerted.
Better think it over,' he said.

I just cannot abide the foreigners,' said
Miss Grizel. ' I'll q:o back to St. Ether-dans
at the term."

Please yourself, then,' returned her
nephew.

Miss Grizel's conscience smote her a good
deal after this ; she was conscious of having
lost her temper, and she greatly dreaded
leaving little Elsie, who was her chief delight
and pride. She would gladly have
remained, had the Laird given her the least
encouragement to do so ; but he seemed to
consider the matter settled, and pride prevented
her making any further overtures.
The following 'Whitsunday term,' therefore,
found her installed in her little house at St.
Ethernans, which she never afterwards left.

Miss Grizel did not, however, at all cease
to concern herself with her little niece's
upbringing. In spite of her aversion to
foreigners, she could not continue to dislike
Fraulein Meyer, who proved to be a sensible,
cheerful person, possessed of much cleverness
and tact.

Still one never knows,' Miss Grizel would
say. ' These Germans may have a queer-like
religion ; and as to Robert with his godless
ways, he II take no heed of the child.
He might let her go to the Free Kirk, or to
no kirk at all, for what I know.'

So it came to pass that Elsie's Sundays
were always spent with her aunt. They
went together to the little Episcopal Church
as often as there was service there, which
was only on alternate Sundays, as one clergyman
had to do duty between it and Lord
Ochil's private chapel at Drumsheugh. The
church itself was curiously small and dark,
and looked outside like any ordinary dwelling-house,
except that it had an arched doorway
and latticed windows. It was a remnant of

the old conjuring days, when it was criminal
for a Scotch Episcopal clergyman to read the
service to a congregation of more than five
persons, and meetings were held in secret.
Inside, the church was appropriately fitted
up, and a small organ had been added, but
no enlargement of the building had been
thought necessary, as the congregation was
very poor, consisting chiefly of the fisher
folk, many of whom in that part of Scotland
are Episcopalians. On the Sundays when
there was no service there. Elsie and her
governess went to the parish church, whilst
Miss Grizel sat at home and read the prayers
to herself. ' It was not for the likes of her,'
she would remark, 'to go to the places.'
Not that she thought it wrong to attend a
Presbyterian place of worship ; on the contrary,
she quite approved of Elsie doing so,
and she had a great respect for the worthy
minister. Dr. Leghorn, and his wife ; but
she was so thoroughly conservative in all
her instincts that she liked to keep up even
the memory of old prejudices and traditions.

After service Elsie dined with Aunt Grizel,
and then underwent a sort of catechising ;
she had to repeat the collect for the day, the
Church catechism, one of the Scottish paraphrases,
and the names of the books of the
Old and New Testaments in their order,
both backwards and forwards ; which last
exercise was regarded by Aunt Grizel as indispensable
to her spiritual welfare. After
this, she was allowed to read, or to do
what she pleased, until tea, or until Fraulein
Meyer, who had meanwhile been passing
the time with her friend Mrs. Leghorn,
should think ht to appear and convey her
home. After Elsie's confirmation the religious
exercises were discontinued, but still
her Sundays were spent with her aunt. No
wonder Miss Grizel was restless and troubled
that evening ; she had schooled herself to
believe that Elsie's departure was the best
thing that could happen under the circumstances,
but it was like losing the light of
her eyes to part with the girl. One of her
maxims, however, was that the young should

be taught to think themselves of no importance
to their elders, so she would show no
outward sign of regret when Elsie bade her
good-bye.

If Robert had only taken my advice and
married ten years ago  but he was always a
thrawn creature,' she said to herself. 'What
ailed him at Margaret Ferguson ? But what
is done is done, it is just a dispensation of
Providence, and all is ordered for the best.'
With this pious reflection, rather doubtfully
uttered, however. Aunt Grizel betook herself
to bed.

What I hare done through lack of wit
I never, never can rea';
I trust you're a' my friends as yet,
Good-night, and joy be with you a'. '

Elsie's few last days at Rossiee were fast
slipping away, and some of her farewell visits
had already been paid. She had none to
make amongst those  of her own class, for
her only friends in the neighbourhood. Lord
and Lady Ochil, at Drumsheugh, were then
absent, to her great regret. For the last
year or two, indeed, she had scarcely seen
them, except on the Sundays when they
came to St. Ethernans to church, as the
Laird had unluckily taken offence at Lord
Ochil for some trifling cause, and difficulties
were apt to be raised whenever Elsie wished
to visit them. It was a great loss to the

girl ; she was a favourite with Lady Ochil,
who was a kind motherly woman with a
number of children of her own. ' A set of
wild, ill-behaved brats,' Aunt Grizel called
them, but Elsie delighted in a day or two
spent at Drumsheugh amongst all the noise
and merriment, and the change from the
monotonous life at Rossiee was very good for
her.

About the farmsteading and in the cottages,
however, Elsie had many friends, and
she was careful that not one should be
omitted in her round of visits.

I wonder if there is anything they would
like before I go,' she thought. So she ransacked
all her little possessions for parting
gifts, and where there were children she distributed
pots of jam, despoiling the storeroom
without remorse.

If Euphemia is so good at making jam,
she may just make an extra quantity this
year,' she remarked aside to Hans as she
filled her baskets. Then she set off with
her gifts, offering to every one as well her

pretty words of regret at leaving them.
There was Sandy Duncan the grieve, and
his wife, and the farm-labourers, with their
wives and families, who lived in the row of
cottages below the steading. There was
Angus Cameron the shepherd, a Highlander
from Lochaber, whose cottage stood all by
itself amongst the fields of short grass near
the sea. He had a wife too, and innumerable
red-haired children, who were continually
being caught trespassing in the woods by the
Laird, and threatened by him with the utmost
rigour of the law. There was Miss Petrie
the seamstress, who inhabited quite a smart
little house, and made clothes for the whole
country-side. There was Tibbie Law the
old post-woman, who brought out the letters
and parcels daily, and whose cart and old
white horse were constantly to be seen on
the road between Rossiee and St. Ethernans.
She was Invariably drunk, which was the
chief cause of the late postal delivery ; but
nobody seemed to notice or regret this circumstance,
and no harm, curiously enough, ever

befell either her or her letter-bags. And besides
the people, there were all her favourite
haunts to be visited ; the ' den,' with its
pretty little brown burn, whose banks were
now yellow with primroses ; the hollow ash-tree,
where as a child she used to 'play at
houses,' and which was still handsomely furnished
with broken crockery ; and the shore,
which she liked best of all, but to which
Hans was not so partial, owing to the absence
of rabbits' holes.

Sandy Duncan and his wife stood at the
door of their cottage watching Elsie as she
went slowly home with her empty basket.

Or young teddy,' observed Sandy
graciously, ' is rally an ornament till her
sect.'

'She's a bonny crater and a gude,' answered
his wife, wiping her eyes with her
apron. ' And her no to get leave to bide in
her ain mither's loose ! The Laird should
tak' shame till himsel'  as he should. Sicca
a marriage !'

'Woman,' said Sandy, with his usual

VOL. I. F

oratorical wave of the hand, 'ye hare nae
steel o' the law. The estate o' Rossiee, wi' a'
that appertains billet, would pass '

Hoot wa wi' your estates, ye harrel ! '
replied Mrs. Duncan with ineffable scorn,
yet willing to escape an argument to which
she felt herself unequal. ' I'm wa' to the
skye.'

So saying, she took up her milk-pails and
departed, cutting short an oration which her
husband was about to deliver on the whole
genealogy of the Rossiee family, combined
with a homily on the impropriety of speaking
evil of * dignities.'

It was Elsie's last day at home ; she was
to start for Edinburgh the next morning, and
she was sitting in the drawing-room writing
labels, or ' libels ' as Bella called them, for
her boxes. The day was wet, and the Laird
had been wandering disconsolately about the
house, as his custom was, when the weather
was unfavourable. He had now come into
the drawing-room, and Elsie became aware
that his eyes were fixed upon her as she

wrote. She looked up, pen in hand ; the
Laird eyed her fiercely.

Did you want anything, papa ? ' she
asked.

You're a good creature, Elsie. Your
mother was a good creature.'

With this remark, delivered with startling
abruptness, the Laird bolted out of the room,
leaving his daughter too entirely transfixed
with astonishment to move or speak. He
came back in a minute or two with a large
blue envelope in his hand.

Have you money ' ' he demanded.

Not enough for my journey, papa. I
was going to ask you for some.'

Count that,' said the Laird. Elsie
obeyed.

But is not this more than I shall

need ? '

'See that you travel respectably,' said her
father. ' I hate your cheap excursions. I
suppose you'll take that idiot with you.'

'That idiot' meant Janet, as all the household
knew.

Janet might see me into the train, papa,
if you think it best ; but I shall not take anybody
to England with me  except Hans, of
course.'

You're surely not going to take that
brute to any decent house ! ' said the Laird
with well-feigned astonishment.

Aunt Caroline expects him,' answered
Elsie promptly. ' I wrote to tell her he was
coming.'

Her father glanced at Hans as he lay on
the rug in front of the fire, his sides somewhat
distended after a recent meal ; he moved
the end of his tail deprecatingly on being
looked at, and turned up the white of one eye.
Far better have it destroyed,' murmured
the Laird. But this was not said decisively
or with authority, and Elsie knew that no
further objection would be raised against
Hans accompanying her. 'Your uncle will
pay your allowance regularly. I've made
arrangements, and I've doubled it. If they
don't treat you well at that place you can
come back.'

When shall I come back, papa ? '

The Laird did not answer for a moment,
then he turned to leave the room.

'Come back when you please, of course,'
said he as he went away.

Elsie's journey was rather a complicated
one. She drove to St. Ethernans and thence
took the ferry-boat, which crossed to Drum-sleigh
and back ' every lawful day.' From
Drumsheugh the coach conveyed her to Cross-briggs
Junction, where she had to wait half
an hour for the train going south to Edinburgh.
She dismissed Janet, as the coach
returned immediately, and walked wearily up
and down the long gusty platform, leading
Hans by a little chain. A chill east wind
was blowing, sweeping disconsolately through
the draughty station, reddening the noses of
the passengers and blowing dust into their
eyes. Elsie could not help thinking how
unlovely her fellow-creatures looked under
these circumstances ; the men standing about
in groups discussing the price of barley or
some knotty point in politics, and clearing their

throats from time to time with unnecessary
vehemence. The women mostly looked cold
and careworn, standing huddled together in
knots of two or three, or sitting on the benches,
each grasping several baskets, bundles, or
babies, as the case might be ; while one or two
damsels, arrayed in what they were pleased
to call ' Paris fashions,' walked up and down
arm in arm with a jaunty air.

The half hour had lengthened out into
three-quarters; at last the porter rang a
huge bell just behind Elsie's ear, and the
train came thundering up. She took Hans
in her arms, and was, in her anxiety, about to
struggle into a smoking compartment, when
Allow me, Miss Ross,' said a voice close to
her, and Elsie recognised the well-known
accents of Mr. Macrae. ' Permit me to
assist you  you will find the next carriage
more commodious.'

Oh, thank you, Mr. Macrae,' said Elsie,
glad to see him for the first time in her life,
as he put her and her possessions into the
carriage.

And there is your canine favourite.
Poor little fellow!' said Mr. Macrae,
attempting to pat Hans, who was ungrateful
enough to reply with a growl. 'Vigilant
as ever, I see ! ' he continued magnanimously.
' A capital guardian, Miss Ross,
first-class !'

'It is very bad of him to growl at his
friends,' said Elsie, who felt quite warmed and
cheered by the friendly voice and manner.
'Thank you so much  good-bye!' and the
train moved slowly off, leaving Mr. Macrae
standing on the platform flourishing his hat
with much grace.

Once more Elsie caught sight of the bay
and the hills before the railway line took a
turn to the west. She looked out for them
anxiously. It had been cloudy when she
crossed the ferry, so that the higher hills were
hidden, and to the fanciful girl there came a
thought that she would look upon this view
for the last time, and that its aspect, whether
dark or bright, would be a portent of her
future life. She had expected the scene to

be gloomy and threatening ; but when it
came into sight she could scarcely repress a
cry of wonder.

Before her lay a milk-white sea ; the heavy
cloud-masses had rolled back and now hung
over the hills, which shaded in colour from
blue-black to violet. As she looked, the
clouds overhead parted a little, and a ray of
light struck down upon the white water,
changing it to pale gold. It was a strange
and beautiful sight, and one which Elsie
never forgot ; but a moment later the train
dashed into a tunnel, and she saw the sea no
more.

Oh ! Leezie, lass, ye maun ken little
If sae be ye cinna ken me,
For I am Lord Ronald Macdonald,
A chieftain of high degree. '

In the drawing-room of No.  Regent
Place, Edinburgh, two ladies were sitting,
a mother and daughter. The room was
evidently prepared for company ; the chairs
and sofas had been stripped of their chintz
covers, and appeared in all the glory of
crimson plush and brass nails. They looked
almost as if they missed their covering, and
were uneasily conscious of their bare legs and
arms. Most of the furniture had been pushed
back against the wall, leaving a large empty
space in the middle of the floor, which might
be very necessary when the room was
crowded with guests, but, in the meantime.

presented a somewhat waste and desert
appearance. In the inner drawing-room,
beyond the large folding door, a table was
laid for tea. Sugar and cream were there,
and cakes of different sorts, also vast numbers
of teacups and saucers, but nothing hot had
as yet made its appearance. The polished
hearth had been newly swept, and the fire
made as small as it is possible for a fire
to be.

Now they can come as soon as they like,
Margaret,* said Mrs. Ferguson, opening the
window as she spoke, to let in a little more of
the keen east wind. * I think the room is
well aired.'

Dear me, yes, mother,' said Margaret
rather crossly, 'it's very cold.'

It'll be hot enough before we're done,'
said Mrs. Ferguson with a sigh.

I do think, mother,' Margaret said,
walking to the window and shutting it with a
snap, * you could not have chosen a more
awkward day for your tea-party. Elsie Ross
will be here long before they're all gone.'

Well, what does it matter ? ' answered
her mother. ' She'll just come in for a nice
chat with a few friends.'

'She'll come in for cold tea, that's certain,'
said Margaret. ' But, hark ! there's
the door-bell'

Mrs. Ferguson smoothed out her silk
dress, and looked around her with complacency
; Margaret also summoned up a hospitable
smile. Both ladies were fond of
society and a little gossip, but their rather
limited means prevented them from giving
any very costly entertainments to their
friends, and their style of living was, perhaps,
a little old-fashioned. One or two lage
afternoon teas, as on the present occasion,
and a great number of smaller ones, were
usually the extent of their home gaieties
during the season.

Margaret Ferguson could scarcely be
called 2. young lady, though her manner and
dress were youthful for her time of life, which
might be thirty-five or thereabouts. She
was still handsome and well-preserved; a

fine figure of a woman, her friends used to
say of her. Her dark brown hair was still
abundant, and she made the most of it ; her
eyes were also fine, and she could use them
in a manner which was considered highly
effective. She was fond too of a little
showiness in dress, and wore that afternoon
a gown of some brown material, relieved by
trimmings of bright yellow silk ; amber beads
were round her neck, and at her throat were
two or three of the star-shaped yellow daffodils
then in flower. Mrs. Ferguson had
been a beauty in her day, though few traces
of it now remained. She was a stout, 
lady, easy-going and good-humoured.
She, like her daughter, was fond
of ornament, but, in consideration of her
widowed state, her dress was of black silk,
adorned only with numerous jet beads and
bugles.

The peals at the door-bell soon became
incessant, and the room began to fill rapidly.
Margaret's tea-table was surrounded by a
circle of young men, with whom her good

looks and lively manner rendered her very
popular. She made them useful in handing
round cakes and cups of tea, and kept up a
continual flow of talk and laughter in the
inner room, towards which all the young
people of the party were gradually attracted ;
some of the girls talking to the young men of
their acquaintance, others grouped together,
confidentially discussing their partners at the
last ball, or descanting upon the ugliness of
their friends' clothes.

In the larger drawing-room, where Mrs.
Ferguson presided, more serious subjects
were under discussion. The younger married
ladies drew together, and compared their
children's ages and constitutions, or condoled
with one another on the shortcomings of their
servants ; while the elder matrons and spinsters
were long since embarked on floods of
church gossip, according to their different
denominations ; varied by a little mild scandal,
and some dissertations upon diseases.

Next to Mrs. Ferguson, in the chair of
state, sat a large and ponderous lady in a

velvet mantle. There was, somehow, an
appearance of wealth about her, which commanded
every one's respect, and her opinion
was listened to with deference. This lady-belonged,
in fact, to no less a family than the
Stewartss of Knockbrichachan, and, having
married Mr. Macdonald Smith, a wealthy
wine-merchant, there was no end to her importance,
or to the respect which she inspired.


I think,' said Mrs. Ferguson to this
personage, ' I saw your carriage at the door
of St. Barnabas' Church on Sunday afternoon.'


I went to hear your new curate,' replied
Mrs. Macdonald-smith. ' He looks very
emaciated, poor young man. Have you made
his acquaintance ? '

He's scarcely to be seen out of the pulpit,'
said Mrs. Ferguson, shaking her head. ' I
asked him to his dinner a while ago, but no !
he wasn't going out. I forget the reason 
it was one of their church days, I think, when
they stay in.'

Ah, well ! very proper, I daresay,' said
Mrs. Macdonald-Smith. ' Duties are different
in different stations. Did you and your
daughter go to the New Club ball, Mrs.
Ferguson ? '

Oh yes ! we did, and very good it was.
Margaret was dancing away  she never tires.
A terrible want of gentlemen, though ! I
was quite sorry for the poor girls that got
no dancing. There they were, poor things,
standing round the wall thick ! each with
their programme in their hands, and never a
partner to their name ! ' And kind Mrs.
Ferguson sighed deeply at the recollection of
this moving spectacle.

By the bye, Mrs. Macdonald-Smith,' she
continued presently, ' we are expecting a
young friend this afternoon, who will make a
sensation, I'm thinking, when she comes out.
I'm not sure but what she's a connection of
yours  Elsie Ross of Rossiee. She's Helen
Lindsay's daughter  do you recollect ker f '

Helen Lindsay } I remember her welland
a beautiful creature she was,' said Mrs.

Macdonald-Smith, with more animation than
she had hitherto displayed. ' You are quite
right, Mrs. Ferguson, she was related to the
Stewartss. Does her daughter inherit her
good looks ? '

Well  she's a graceful creature,' said Mrs.
Ferguson, considering. ' A mere slip of a
thing, you know  wants filling out  but
pretty, and a nice frank girl too. No awkward
schoolgirl ways about her. Margaret
thinks she'll be a beauty  I've not seen
her for two years. It's almost time she was
here,' she added, glancing at the clock on the
chimney-piece.

I hope you won't hurry away, Mrs. ,'
 as that lady showed signs of
moving,  ' it will be a real pleasure to introduce
her to you.'

By this time some of the guests had departed,
and the rooms were becoming empty.
Margaret still appeared engrossed in conversation,
but all the time she kept a bright lookout,
and she was the first to hear the doorbell
which announced Elsie's arrival. In a

minute she was on the stair, and stood still to
make sure that it was the expected guest,
reflecting with some vexation that, after
a long journey, Elsie's appearance would
scarcely be calculated to make the impression
she desired. ' And dressed in black, too, I
declare, like a little nun she said half impatiently,
as a slender dark figure emerged from
the cab, leading a little brown dog by a chain.

Well ! Elsie dear,'  flying downstairs to
meet her and kissing her warmly,  ' how are
you ? Very tired after your journey ? So
you've brought your little dog  that's right !
Trouble ? not a bit ! bring a whole kennel if
you like. My dear child, we've got a tea-party.
Come into this room a minute.'

She hastily drew the girl into a large bedroom
on the ground-floor, filled with ladies'
cloaks and wraps. ' You won't mind coming
upstairs to see them for a little ? They'll
soon be gone.'

If my clothes are good enough,' said
Elsie doubtfully, rather anxious for an excuse
not to appear.

VOL. I. G

You look very nice, dear. Take off your
heavy jacket, and let me arrange your handkerchief.
So! If only I had a flower to
pin here ! Ah ! you've got one yourself,
clever child ! ' as Elsie offered her a bunch
of dark velvety auriculas, which she had
brought from home.

There ! they look lovely against the
cream-coloured handkerchief. Keep on your
hat  it's very becoming  now ! Oh, the
dog! Jo-an!' she called  Elsie's eyebrows
went up in a little surprise  ' Jo-an !' and one
of the maids who had been carrying in the
trunks appeared.

Here, Jo-an, is Miss Ross's dog  give it
some food, and keep it till the company's
gone. And  stop, Jo-an, don't let it worry
the cat. Come along, Elsie darling.'

Elsie submitted to be led to the drawing-room,
feeling rather confused at the buzz of
strange voices which greeted her ears. Margaret
placed her in a chair by the tea-table,
and glanced round her for a moment. * Well,
Captain Foulis, you look very tired,' she said,

addressing a young man who was leaning
languidly against the door. ' Are you too
exhausted to fetch me the tea-pot and kettle
from the next room ? They're by the fire.'

The young man seemed a trifle unwilling,
but went obediently.

He gives himself ridiculous airs,' whispered
Margaret  'he's very well connected,
though  and dances beautifully. Many
thanks,' said she aloud, taking the things
from him. ' You really deserve a reward.
Let me introduce you to Miss Ross, Captain
Foulis.'

Elsie looked round in vain for Mrs.
Ferguson ; but that lady, all unconscious of
her arrival, was serenely prattling on to her
friends in the larger room, whither Elsie had
not yet been conducted. There was no help
for it  she must drink her tea and make
conversation for Captain Foulis ; who, after
pulling his moustache and gazing at the ceiling
as if in thought, at length drew a chair
close to her, and proceeded to make himself
as agreeable as he knew how.

She overheard Margaret meanwhile giving
warm invitations to several young people fora
dance the following evening. ' Just a few
couples, you know  nothing grand,' she said.
Captain Foulis, I hope you will come if
you've nothing better to do. Can you ? at
eight o'clock  just a small early affair.'

The well-connected one, after again consulting
the ceiling, replied that he would
leave it open, if she didn't mind. He did
not exactly remember what his engagements
were, but would ' put in an appearance ' if he
could. He then took leave, and Elsie said
hastily, ' Margaret, where is Mrs. Ferguson ?'

Margaret laughed, and led her into the
next room. She was going to have teased
her mother jestingly about her inattention to
her guest, but the presence of Mrs. macdonald
Smith awed her into decorum, and
made even Mrs. Ferguson's kindly greeting
a little stiffer than it would naturally have
been. Elsie was presented to the great lady
in due form ; and the latter, after surveying
her through her gold-rimmed eyeglass, was

condescending enough to discover that she
possessed the form of eyebrow peculiar to
the Stewartss of Knockbrichachan. ' Mine
are exactly the same shape, my dear, you
will observe,' said she. She then proceeded
to examine Elsie as to her precise degree of
relationship to that illustrious house, on which
point she found her lamentably ignorant.

'And then they intermarried, my dear,
with the Lindsayss of Corinzean. That reminds
me, Mrs. Ferguson, I have a letter
from my good old friend, Mrs. Macdonald
of Ardvoira. They are expecting the young
heir to be down this summer ; he is home
from India on leave. A very fine youth, I
am told.'

Indeed ?' said Mrs. Ferguson. ' He'll be
Lord Corinzean too some day, will he not ?
Now attend, Elsie ! this is your cousin, you
know, only once removed. His father and
your mother were first cousins.'

His mother. Lady Eleanor, is married
again,' said Mrs. Macdonald-Smith quickly,
'to a Mr. Fitzgerald  Irish extraction, I

fancy  and she has a younger son ; not a
Fitzgerald though  a Lindsay. There are
several between young David Lindsay and
the peerage, but he'll come to it through
time. That is, humanly speaking, of course.'
A sigh. * Those Corinthians have no right
to be long-lived.'

Elsie was tired, and felt no interest in
the subject. She was familiar with the
names, Ardvoira, Knockbrichachan, Corns
(pronounced Coringan), as she had
heard them from Aunt Grizel, who was also
fond of genealogical research, and they had
invariably wearied her very much. * It is
very hard,' thought she, * that I should be
annoyed with them here as well ;' and great
was her relief when Mrs. Macdonald-Smith
departed, followed presently by the other
guests.

The energetic Margaret now came bustling
up.

'Well !' said she, ' I don't think it went off
badly at all. Dear me ! how tired you both
look!'

Mrs. Ferguson had sunk back in her armchair,
and, casting her company manners to
the winds, was mopping her face and fanning
herself with her pocket handkerchief.

Oh, my dears !' said she, ' what a day this
has been ! Oh me, but it's warm ! Margaret,
open a bit o' the window.'

swell, mother, go and He down on your
bed if you're tired, and don't get rheumatism.
I'll send Jo-an to set the room to rights.
Elsie, come upstairs, dear child.'

She took Elsie to the room prepared for
her ; and, with real kindness, as she noticed
the girl's weary looks, attended to her wants,
and made her promise to take ' a good rest.'

Finally, she fetched Hans, whose delight
at being restored to his mistress expressed
itself in curious little squeaks, and in scampering
round the room with his tail arched until
he was quite exhausted, and had to lie down,
panting.

Enter Thames with two attendants.

Thames. Here I am, sir.

Puff. Very well, indeed ! See, gentlemen, there's a river for
you !

Sneer. But pray, who are those gentlemen in green with him ?
Puff. Those ?  those are his banks.
Sneer. His banks ?

Puff. Yes, one crowned with alders and the other with a villa 
you take the allusions ?'

This was not by any means Elsie's first visit
to the Fergusonss. She had spent a Httle
time with them In Edinburgh nearly every
year, and on former occasions had generally
enjoyed herself very much. Margaret
amused her and was kind ; the streets and
shops were full of fascination to the country
girl ; and the exceeding beauty of the town
was in itself a happiness to her. But somehow,
this time, the Fergusonss and their

surroundings weaned her inexpressibly. She
felt sad and depressed at leaving home,
where at least she was free, and not utterly
dependent upon others ; she longed to escape
from Margaret's restless activity and Mrs.
Ferguson's perpetual small gossip ; their
thoughts and ways were not, and never could
be, hers ; and a feeling of dismay crept over
her, as she thought what her life would be if
her new relations did not prove more congenial
to her.

She was not left long, however, to indulge
in these or any other speculations ; Margaret
soon came in to stir her up, and for the rest
of her visit she was never left alone again.
The next day was spent in shopping, paying
calls, and in a revision of Elsie's wardrobe,
at which Mrs. Ferguson assisted, though
her opinion was treated with contempt by
her daughter, who was only disposed to agree
with her when she remarked that Elsie's
dresses were much too ' sombre ' for a girl of
her age. Margaret was feverishly anxious
that her dance should be a success, and that

Elsie should make a good appearance at it,
so part of the afternoon was devoted to an
impromptu dancing lesson ; Mrs. Ferguson
being set to play dance music, in which both
she and Margaret excelled. This Elsie quite
enjoyed, as she did the dance itself, although
she dreaded it beforehand, and had gone
through a good deal of worry over her
dressing. However, even Margaret found
her white India muslin frock pretty and
suitable, and rejected with scorn the scarlet
geraniums with which Mrs. Ferguson proposed
to 'lighten it up.' Everything went
off admirably, as Margaret's entertainments
usually did ; and she felt amply repaid for
the trouble she had taken, as she watched
Elsie's lovely face, and the childish grace of
her movements, and saw how much she was
sought after.

'You are quite a success, my child!' she
exclaimed enthusiastically, as she lit Elsie's
bedroom candle. ' I should like to have you
here longer ! All the young men would beat
your feet. You might be a little more

free and easy with them though  they Hke it
better.'

Margaret,' said Elsie solemnly, sitting
down on the edge of her bed, ' I am perfectly
sick of young men. Do you know how many
I have had introduced to me since I came
here V

Margaret stared at her.

'Good gracious, child!' she said, * how
many then ?'

No less than sixteen!' replied Elsie,
keeping her large eyes fixed upon Margaret
with a tragic expression. 'And they all
made exactly the same remarks.'

Well, what would you have ? ' said
Margaret. ' They don't set up to be geniuses.
And as to their number, let me tell you,
Elsie, that it is not everybody here, in Edinburgh,
who could have collected sixteen
agreeable, well-bred young men in two
days.'

Elsie blushed at this reproof, the severity
of which was unlike Margaret's usual gay
good-nature.

'Oh no, Margaret dear!' said she, fearing
she had been rude, ' I know that  and I
think it very clever of you to collect them,
and very kind  but  I can't talk to them as
you do. I do not think I feel to care about
young men much.'

'You're a perfect baby, that's what you
are,' said Margaret good-humouredly. ' It's
time you were in bed, so I'll go.'

Good-night, Margaret,* said Elsie, kissing
her affectionately. ' I liked the dance very,
very much.'

As the Fergusonss will not appear again
in these pages, which are merely a chronicle
of Elsie Ross's experiences, it may be well
to mention here that Margaret was married
a year or two later to Dr. Aisle, a physician
of considerable celebrity, who inhabited a
handsome house at the west end of the town.
Here Margaret was able to go more into
society, and to give entertainments during
the Edinburgh season of a most brilliant and
fashionable kind. As Mrs. Ferguson continued
to live with her daughter, she was no

less benefited by the change in her circumstances.


Elsie and Hans quitted Edinburgh the
following morning, and in due time arrived
at King's Cross. As she stepped upon the
platform and looked around her bewildered,
a footman in blue and yellow livery came up,
and touched his hat rather doubtfully.

Are you from General Lindsay ?' she
asked, a little surprised. ' How kind of
them,' she added mentally, ' to send a footman
to meet me ! and such an enormous one
too!' and she surveyed William's six feet of
stature with some admiration.

Yes, miss,' said the footman. ' I will
attend to your luggage, miss, and your 
ahem  dawn. Parkins is here, miss, if you
please.'

These are both my boxes. Please show
me which is Parkins. I will keep the dog.'

Mindful of Marjorie's story, Elsie had
expected to find in Parkins a smart, youthful-looking
lady's-maid, and could hardly believe
her eyes when a little wizened elderly woman.

soberly dressed, and carrying a large reticule,
accosted her. She felt the sharp little black
eyes scrutinising her critically, but Parkins
addressed her in honeyed tones : 'Miss
Ross ! This will be a happy day for my
dear master and mistress. You must be
very much fatigued, miss ?'

Thank you for coming to meet me,
Parkins,' said Elsie with a smile. ' I did not
expect it. Are we to sleep in London ?'

I have engaged rooms, miss, at a nice
quiet 'hotel. Mistress thought, if you were
not too tired, we might travel 'one tomorrow
afternoon.'

Elsie made no objection, but got into the
cab, while Parkins produced a telegraph form
from her reticule, and wrote as follows : 
From Priscilla Parkins, King's Cross
Station, to Mrs. Lindsay, The Elms, Chip-gingham.
Our dear young lady just arrived.
Met at station by self and William. We
trust not over fatigued. Train punctual.'

Pray read it, miss,' said Parkins, presenting
the document to Elsie with some pride.

I think that will relieve dear mistress's
mind.'

Elsie warmly congratulated Parkins upon
her skill in writing telegrams, and particularly
upon the fact that there were exactly twenty
words in this message. The thoughtful
Parkins had, indeed, been engaged in its
composition for a considerable time before
Elsie's arrival, but she only answered
modestly, ' I 'ave 'ad the blessing of a good
education, miss, and I 'ope I 'ave profited by
it in some measure.'

William was now entrusted with the
missive, and charged to send it off at once,
after which the party proceeded to a small
hotel near Paddington Station, where they
passed the night.

The following forenoon was rather tedious
to Elsie ; it was spent in going to various
shops in a four-wheeled cab, accompanied by
the faithful Parkins, who refused to let her
charge out of her sight for an instant, and
who did not consider ' an 'anson ' a respectable
conveyance for a young lady.

The views of London to be obtained out
of a cab window are necessarily limited, and
Elsie's first impressions of the metropolis
were far from enthusiastic. In the afternoon
she and her attendants started on their
homeward journey, which was not a very
long one.

As they neared Chippingham Elsie looked
about her anxiously. She saw low flat
meadows, now beginning to be yellow with
buttercups ; wide ditches bordered with rows
of pollarded willows ; glimpses now and
again of a slow and stately river, full to the
brim, soaking through beds of rushes ; here
and there a snug little village, with neat
cottages and gardens, and orchard trees
covered with white and pink blossom. Then
rows of mean-looking brick houses, some
only half built, a public-house, and a few
shops ; they were approaching a larger town.

Here we are, miss,' said Parkins, collecting
her parcels as the train entered the
station.

A brougham with a pair of sleek bay

horses was awaiting them. They left the
town and drove leisurely along a suburban
road, with high brick walls on each side,
which shut in the villa gardens, until they
came to a large iron gate painted white, and
thrown hospitably open. Elsie's heart beat
fast as the wheels crunched upon the gravel
drive, and the carriage drew up at the door
of a good-sized red brick house of rather
uninteresting appearance. Elsie had neither
time nor inclination at that moment, however,
to criticise its exterior. She was greeted on
the threshold by a deafening chorus of
barking, as two pug dogs precipitated themselves
upon Hans to his great terror, while
his mistress found herself tightly clasped in
the embrace of her Aunt Caroline.

A little woman, possessed of considerable
muscular strength of arm,  such was Elsie s
first impression ; she had to stoop low to kiss
her.

'My darling child!' said Mrs. Lindsay in
an agitated voice, at length releasing her.
She passed on to speak a word to Parkins,

VOL. I. H

and Elsie had time to observe her. A plump,
yet active little figure, in a prune-coloured
silk dress, an Indian shawl round her
shoulders, and on her head a mob-cap with
velvet bows.

Shall I like her or dislike her ?' thought
Elsie, trying furtively to catch a view of her
aunt's face. But she could not make up her
mind. It was a bright, rather pleasant face,
and there was an air of decision and energy
about her which, upon the whole, attracted
Elsie. There was not a silver thread in the
black hair, but the cap with its lace frills
which Mrs. Lindsay wore gave a softness to
the face which perhaps it had lacked in
youth ; the black eyes were piercing and a
trifle hard.

The first greetings over, Elsie was led
into the drawing-room, a large airy room on
the ground-floor. The furniture was modern,
but there was no ' high art ' or aesthetic
colouring about it, everything was bright
even to gaudiness. The walls were white
and gold, so were the doors ; the chairs and

sofas were covered, some with a bright
chintz, others with bead and worsted work in
various patterns. Beside Mrs. Lindsay's
easy-chair stood a work-table Uttered over
with scraps of caHco of many colours. The
French windows opened upon the garden ;
outside there was a verandah, where a great
historia grew, twisting and climbing round
the pillars. When this was in flower it
formed a perfect bower of bloom, but now
the brown shoots were just coming out,
and it was merely conspicuous by its rough
knotted stem.

A thin, middle-aged lady rose from a
wicker arm-chair as they entered, and came
to meet them with a sort of nervous haste.
The crotchet shawl she had been working
dropped from her hands, and instantly
became a prey to the larger of the two
pugs, whose indiscreet behaviour showed that
he had scarcely yet emerged from puppy-hood.
The lady was introduced as ' my dear
cousin and friend. Miss Maynard.' She
advanced hurriedly towards Elsie and made

one or two movements in the direction of her
face, as if uncertain whether to kiss her or
not. Elsie bent to receive the salute,
but finding that Miss Maynard only made
one or two ineffectual little dabs in the
air, she at length decided to give up the
attempt.

But where is my dearest Henry?' cried
Mrs. Lindsay.

He was here but a moment ago,' answered
Miss Maynard, eagerly looking round her on
the floor, as if she hoped to pick up General
Lindsay off the carpet. But his wife darted
into the passage, and presently returned
clinging to the arm of an old gentleman, who,
it turned out, had been vainly searching for
his niece amongst the luggage.

'Here is our dear niece, my Henry ! ' said
Mrs. Lindsay, with deep feeling in her tone.

Eh, what ? ' said the General, folding
Elsie in another embrace. ' I am glad to see
you ; I forget your name, my dear  Helen,
eh?'

'No, Uncle Henry, Elsie  Elsie Ross.

Helen was my mother's name,' she added
softly.

Elsie had not expected to find her great-uncle
so old and feeble-looking a man. He
must have been at least twenty years older
than his wife, who looked upwards of fifty.
His features were finely chiselled, and his
complexion had the ivory whiteness of one
which had been fair in youth. A black velvet
skull-cap covered his bald head, and a long
silvery white beard added to his venerable
appearance.

He took up a position on the hearthrug
and surveyed his niece with evident complacency,
rubbing his hands and chuckling to
himself.

'And how did you leave them all at
Rossiee ? ' said he. ' Father got married, I
hear. Grand wedding, eh ? '

Mrs. Lindsay shook her head and frowned
at her husband, but Elsie made answer
calmly, 'The wedding took place to-day, I
believe, Uncle Henry; it was to be very
quiet.'

Quiet, was it ? ' said the General. ' I
thought you would have been a bridesmaid.'

Henry ! ' said Mrs. Lindsay.

*They should have made you a bridesmaid,
my dear,' pursued the General, rubbing
his hands again. * Stepmother good-looking,
eh?'

'Henry !' said Mrs. Lindsay  and a
dead silence fell upon the company.

At this juncture the General providentially
caught sight of Hans, which diverted his
attention. * Eh ! ' said he, * what's that '. a
seal, eh ? '

Everybody laughed at this, and Mrs.
Lindsay shook her husband playfully by the
shoulder.

You foolish, dear man ! Put on your
spectacles,' said she.

Elsie hastened to apologise for bringing
Hans into a household which appeared to
be already so well provided with dogs, but
General Lindsay was fond of animals, and
Hans was soon at home upon his knee.

*And now, my love,' said Aunt Caroline

briskly, ' you would like to see your own
little nest, daresay. Come, you and I will
go upstairs together.'

Mrs. Lindsay ushered Elsie upstairs accordingly,
stopping several times during the
ascent to pant, not because she was in the
least out of breath, but in order to impress
upon her niece's mind the fact that an unusual
honour was being done her, and that it was
not every young visitor who was personally
conducted to her apartment. It is to be
feared that this mark of condescension was
lost upon Elsie, but her evident pleasure in
the room to which she was taken quite
satisfied her aunt. It was very bright and
fresh with its pink and white draperies. The
walls were hung with illuminated texts, and
the view from the window was the same as
that from the drawing-room, but more extensive,
for beyond the garden and the paddock
the river could be seen, with the boats and
barges passing up and down upon it.

What a beautiful river ! ' exclaimed Elsie
with delight.

Mrs. Lindsay nodded patronisingly. *Your
uncle and I are very fond of our dear river,'
an answer which conveyed to her hearer's
mind the impression that it was their own
especial property ; but on learning afterwards
that it was the Thames, Elsie dismissed this
idea.

*As you have brought no attendant, my
love,' said Mrs. Lindsay, ' I have selected a
well-principled young housemaid specially to
wait upon you. Her name is Lucy Higgins,
and she is a member of Miss Maynard's
bible-class.'

She rang the bell as she spoke, and a
pretty neat-looking girl appeared, curtsying
and smiling. Then with another affectionate
embrace and benediction, Mrs. Lindsay left
the room.

The blackbird amid leafy trees,
The lark above the hill,
Let loose their carols when they please,
Are quiet when they will. . . .

But we are press'd by heavy laws ;
And often, glad no more,
We wear a face of joy, because
We have been glad of yore. '

The Elms, Chippingham, April 30.

My dear Aunt Grizel  I put off writing
my long letter till to-day, so that I might
have more to tell you. The journey to
London did not seem long, and they sent
two servants to meet me from here  Parkins
and a footman. My uncle and aunt are so
very kind, but I would rather not have had
P. London was very dark, and smelt of
cooking, but it may not be so in all parts of
the town ; I had not time to see it really well.
I came here yesterday, and I do think the

country in England is beautiful, so green and
flowery. Think of the apple blossom being
all out, and the lilacs very nearly ! This
house is not exactly in the country ; it is a
villa, with a large garden, however, and the
river Thames is quite near, which I am very
glad of. Now I must tell you about my
uncle and aunt. Aunt Caroline is very
affectionate ; I have never been so much
kissed before. I do not quite like it, as I
have done nothing at all to deserve so much
kindness, and she may not like me when she
comes to know me. But I hope she will.
Uncle Henry is also full of affection. He is
old and rather deaf, and wears a skull-cap,
but he is very handsome still ; Aunt Caroline
is little and not pretty. There is another
lady here called Miss Maynard ; I do not
know what to say about her, except that she
is not strong, and seems rather afraid of Aunt
Caroline. If it were not ridiculous, I would
almost think she was afraid of me  I am sure
she is of Hans. You will see by this that
she is very nervous.

I have such a pretty room, with a view
over the river, and I am to have a maid all
to myself. There is a great number of servants
in this house ; I tried to count them
when they came in to prayers, but I had not
time to finish. At dinner there are three
men-servants to wait  a butler, a footman,
and a page-boy.

They keep a few hens here, and two cows
to supply the house. The cows are Alderney,
and very pretty  I think very little of the
poultry. Aunt Caroline has two dogs, pugs,
whose names are Pompon and Bijou. The
latter is the son of the former ; he is twice as
big as his mother, and has not much sense.

I hope you are well, dearest Aunt Grizel,
and have caught no cold  the wedding will
be over now. I never wrote such a long
letter before in my life, and must now stop.
I remain, your affectionate niece,

Elspeth Ross.'

Elsie's next letter was to her father ; it
ran as follows : 

My dear Papa  I arrived here safely
yesterday afternoon. Uncle Henry and
Aunt Caroline are both very kind, and seem
pleased to see me. There is another lady
who lives here, Miss Maynard, Aunt Caroline's
cousin. I am to study with her, as she
is very accomplished. The country here is
mostly in grass, which is well on, and all the
cows are out. They keep two Alderney
here, so I do not suppose they get much for
the calves. Considering the fine pasture
hereabouts, I wonder the cattle are not better
looking. How are all your beasts ? I hope
Euphemia is also well, and that she received
the little parcel safely which I sent her from
London. Please excuse mistakes.  I am,
your affectionate daughter, Elsie.'

The whole morning after Elsie's arrival
was spent by her in composing and writing
the above epistles. Except for a brief note
to her father when she had been absent on
a few days' visit, either at Drumsheugh or in
Edinburgh, she had never had any practice

in English composition, her letters to her
governess being in German. It may therefore
be deemed high time that she should
pursue her studies under the superintendence
of the accomplished Miss Maynard. A
course of instruction was accordingly set on
foot, which occupied two hours of each morning,
whilst Mrs. Lindsay read the newspapers
to her husband in his study, as it was
called.

Elsie found herself rather disappointed as
to the extent of Miss Maynard's attainments;
for she was really anxious to learn, and loved
knowledge for its own sake. Miss Maynard
possessed, as Aunt Caroline was wont to say,
a truly elegant mind.' She knew a little
French and Italian, a very little music, and
was fond of poetry in a feeble way. She
had also a faint glimmering of history, but
was very hazy as to facts. Of science she
was profoundly ignorant, partly on principle,
as she thought it tended to scepticism. She
was, moreover, so easily shocked, and so
fearful of anything which looked like immorality,

that the readings in poetry were apt
to come to an abrupt termination.

Hans was, of course, always present during
those hours of study, and he and his
mistress were both so gentle that Miss Maynard
soon got over her nervous agitation,
and grew warmly attached to them. As she
became more at home, Elsie would put forth
her own arguments and views, at first to the
great surprise and alarm of her instructress.

Miss Maynard,' she began one day, ' I
am shamefully ignorant'

Indeed, my dear replied Miss Maynard,
I do not think you so very backward ; and
if you continue to persevere and to pay
attention, you will soon know as much as a
young lady of your age and station requires.
I so often deplore that fashion of the present
day, young women striving to be on a par
with those of the opposite sex.'

Oh, I don't mean that,' said Elsie, feeling
rather impatient of this sentiment, which she
was aware was borrowed from her Aunt
Caroline. * For Miss Maynard,' thought

she, 'would never dare to deplore anything
by herself.'

I don't mean that, but there is so very
much in the world to learn about. Of course
no one can hope to know it all, but one might
at least try to learn something.'

Miss Maynard cleared her throat and
looked doubtful.

A little general information,' said she.

Yes,' replied Elsie, ' but the information
in this book'  glancing at the volume before
her, which was entitled The Keyhole of
Knowledge, A Manual of Useful Instruction
'is so very general. It deals with each
subject as if it were afraid of it.'

Science,' said Miss Maynard, ' is far from
being a safe study. But if you really wish
to pursue it, my dear, here is a book which
has been recommended to me, called Peeps at
Physical Science, which, I am told, will afford
cultivation of the intellect without endangering
our faith.'

Is our faith so easily endangered then ?'
asked Elsie. ' Dear Miss Maynard, I cannot

think it is really so shaky ; if it were,
it is scarcely worth having.' She took the
book from Miss Maynard's hand, and glanced
through it. ' I do not think,' she said, 'that
it would cultivate my intellect only to " peep "
at a thing. My mind is like a garden with
nothing in it  very well, this book is like a
hen scratching on the top, while what it
wants is to be dug with a spade. Now,
supposing we took up one branch of science
I'll tell you what. Miss Maynard ; I'll take
up any one you like.'

Miss Maynard did not receive this handsome
offer with enthusiasm. She sighed and
hesitated a good deal, and at last ventured to
hint that 'a little botany was a pleasing
study.'

Accordingly the study of botany was begun,
with some degree of zeal, and after a
little while it became quite a new interest to
Miss Maynard, although Elsie was still unsatisfied.


These studies where regarded by Aunt
Caroline with toleration, if not with sympathy.

She herself found Httle pleasure in
books of any sort, and even disliked any one
to read in her presence. She occupied herself,
as she expressed it, with the 'study of
character.' The good lady began with an
excellent opinion of her own worth and
talents, and did not expect any one else to
be equally gifted. At first her very strong
and emphatic expression of opinion upon
every subject, whether she knew anything
about it or not, filled Elsie with unfeigned
surprise ; but when she became better acquainted
with her aunt, she found that it was
one of that lady's articles of faith that whatsoever
she herself thought, said, or did, must
be, not only right, but perfect. She was
very conscientious, and held strong and well-defined
religious opinions ; her own particular
creed being, of course, infallible. There was
no haziness in Mrs. Lindsay's mind, no softening
shade. In her study of character, the
righteous and the wicked stood out before
her as two distinct classes, and she had no
difficulty in pronouncing who among her

VOL. I. I

acquaintance belonged to each. Elsie early
discovered that her father was a prominent
member of the latter class ; Aunt Caroline
disapproved of his very existence (on religious
grounds), any casual mention of him by his
daughter being received with a shake of the
head, an upturning of the eyes, and the subject
would be dismissed as one too dark and
painful to be dwelt upon. But Elsie herself
was an object of her aunt's enthusiastic affection,
and she was treated in every respect asa
daughter of the house. It had been a deep
disappointment to Mrs. Lindsay to have no
children of her own  she who was so admirably
fitted to bring them up ! Had it not
been for her well-known piety, and great
importance to mankind, she would almost
have regarded it as an oversight on the part
of Providence, to remedy which she had often
wished to adopt a child, but the unexpected
obstinacy of the General upon this point
prevented the project being carried into execution.
He would have no one, he said,
except a relation of his own, asserting with

some shrewdness, that his wife would soon
tire of her orphan ; who, without any claim
upon him, would still have to be supported.
On the death of his nephew, Colonel Lindsay,
however, the General proposed to adopt his
eldest son David, then a boy at school, but
his mother. Lady Eleanor, absolutely refused
to give him up, and when she married again
a few years later, she still adhered to that
resolution, although she encouraged the boy
to make frequent visits to his grand-uncle by
whom he was greatly beloved.

Elsie was very happy during the first few
weeks of her stay at Chippingham. She enjoyed
the fresh beauty of the spring weather,
which was almost a revelation to her; for
having spent her life on the east coast of
Scotland, she had hitherto entertained quite
an opposite opinion from the poets who speak
of the ' merry month of May.' The rigorous
punctuality and order of the household, and
all Aunt Caroline's curious little ways, at first
caused her nothing but amusement. The
only person who dared to contradict Mrs.

Lindsay was Howell, the butler, or Howell,
as he was called by the General, who had
never lost his strong Scotch accent. Howell
was a most respectable personage, who could
do everything, at least such was the popular
idea. His subordinates were William, who
has already been mentioned, and an unfortunate
youth named Herbert, the page-boy,
who had been raised to that post on account
of his proficiency as a Sunday scholar. Herbert's
talents, however, were not conspicuous
in any other direction ; he was constantly
getting Into scrapes, and was usually to be
seen in tears. In consequence of some rebuke
from one of his numerous superiors. He
had, amongst other vices, a curious knack of
losing the buttons from off his suit. Elsie
noticed with some interest that he never appeared
with his full complement of buttons,
and wondered why he always lost them off
the parts which showed most. One day at
dinner, Elsie, from her seat next her uncle,
observed a shining object In the spoonful of
soup he was about to convey to his mouth.

With a sudden impulse she seized his arm,
the words she intended to utter resolving
themselves into an unearthly shriek. * A  ow!
don't eat that ! ' she said.

General Lindsay dropped his spoon,
imagining that his niece had suddenly
gone mad. Elsie was laughing too much to
explain; but the discreet Howell, with a severe
countenance, removed the plate, fished out
the substance, wiped it, and presented it
to his master on a salver.

'Eh V said the General  'what's this, eh?'

One of 'Herbert's buttons, sir,' replied
Howell sternly.

The guilty Herbert burst into tears, and
stood sobbing loudly, while an awe-stricken
silence fell upon the company.

Take him away ! ' said Mrs. Lindsay,
waving her hand, as if he were a dish, and
the offender was accordingly removed by
William.

'You have saved your uncle, dear,' she
continued, turning to Elsie, * but  might it
not have been done in a more ladylike

manner ? Never forget who you are, what
you say, nor how you say it.'

No one had much appetite for the rest of
that meal, and for the most part there was
silence, only broken by Mrs. Lindsay saying
very severely to Miss Maynard, who was
overcome with emotion, 'Cecilia! unless those
are tears of joy they are uncalled for.'

The good-natured General began to utter
some deprecating grunts, but these were
quelled by his wife, who shook her forefinger
at him gravely ; while Elsie wondered why
any one should shed tears of joy because the
General had nearly swallowed a button in his
soup.

After dinner, Mrs. Lindsay, still preserving
the tragic sternness of her mood, retired to
the study with her husband, whence they did
not emerge till it was time for prayers. Mrs.
Lindsay always conducted family worship
herself, and that evening it was made particularly
impressive, and abounded in awful
warnings to the idle and careless.

The results of this episode were, that

Herbert's voice was thick with sobs for some
days afterwards ; and that ' an attack,' from
which the General suffered in the course of
the next fortnight, was attributed, by his
wife, to the shock his nervous system had
sustained on this occasion.

These attacks, which occurred from time
to time, were sufficiently alarming, to judge
from the perturbation into which the whole
household was thrown. What was their exact
nature remained a mystery, except, it may be
presumed, to the patient himself, his wife, the
doctor, and (it was believed) Parkins, who
was remarkable for her medical skill.

According to Mrs. Lindsay, her husband's
attacks proceeded from peculiar, and often,
as it would seem, remote causes. The ungodliness
of an acquaintance ; the misconduct
of a domestic ; any vexation or disappointment
which befell Mrs. Lindsay herself ; or
the slightest worry or anxiety, were sufficient,
as she averred, to produce upon the General's
sensitive frame the most disastrous consequences.


The first time after Elsie's arrival that
one of these attacks occurred, she was
greatly alarmed by the solemn bustle which
prevailed ; the long faces of her aunt and
Parkins, Miss Maynard's agitation, the arrival
of the doctor, and the whispered consultations
behind doors.

Is he very ill. Miss Maynard ? Is he
worse than usual ?' she asked anxiously.

I don't know,' said Miss Maynard sobbing,
' I am so nervous, your aunt never tells
me.'

*Well, don't cry,' said Elsie kindly, ' I
will try and find out. Very likely he'll be
better tomorrow.'

She sallied forth accordingly in quest of
information, and went cautiously into the
passage which led to her uncle's room. As
she did so, a door opened, and Parkins
issued forth, carrying a plate with a mustard
plaster on it. Elsie hastened up to her,
'How is the Gen '

Don't get in my way, please, miss '  and
Parkins vanished through the green baize door.

He must be very ill,' thought Elsie, too
anxious about her uncle to be as angry at
Parkins' rudeness as she would otherwise
have been. She walked away absently, and
next found herself in the dining-room, where
Howell was laying the cloth.

Do you know, miss, whether Mrs. Lindsay
will dine this evening T he inquired.

I do not know, Howell ; I am afraid
General Lindsay is worse. Is this a very
bad attack, do you know ? '

Howell looked with half contemptuous
pity at Elsie's white face and dilated eyes.

'There is no call to be alarmed, miss,' said
he in a cheerful tone, arranging the glasses
rapidly on the table. * The General often 'as
them, miss. He's something of an 'ippocon-
truck, he is.'

Thank you, Howell,' said Elsie, and she
went away, somewhat reassured, to console
Miss Maynard as best she might.

General Lindsay appeared again in public
the next day, looker a little whiter and more
fragile, but otherwise much as usual, and

Elsie was never quite so frightened again,
though she now became consumed with
curiosity as to the nature of her uncle's ailment.
She applied first to Miss Maynard,
although from her she did not expect to
receive much information.

What is the matter with him, Miss Maynard
?' she asked. * Is it his heart, or his
liver, or what ?'

I never inquired, dear,* returned Miss
Maynard, shrinking. * I am so nervous in
cases of illness, and your dear aunt is so '

Easily made angry,' suggested Elsie.

No  no, dear, reticent,' said Miss Maynard,
'reticent is the word.'

You think her reticent,' said Elsie slowly.
Now I should have thought her not reticent
enough. However I'll ask her.'

Miss Maynard endeavoured to dissuade
her pupil from this rash course, so Elsie
decided to question Parkins first.

By the bye. Parkins,' said she one day,
affecting a lofty and careless air  *what is
the nature of the General's attacks ?'

They are of a very severe nature, miss,'
replied Parkins, primming up her mouth.

Does he suffer much ?' asked Elsie.

'Yes, miss, he suffers very much, and I
do not like young ladies as inquires into
things outside of their province,' was the
snappish retort.

It is not of the least consequence,' said
Elsie, walking away with her head in the
air, 'whether you like them or don't like
them.'

It was not without great caution that
Elsie addressed her aunt upon the subject ;
but she was not prepared for the outburst of
feeling which her innocent-sounding question
occasioned.

My dear,' said Aunt Caroline, ' how can
you ask ? Your uncle has the Lindsay constitution.'


Elsie stood before her in silent consternation,
whilst her aunt drew out a little pocket-handkerchief,
and applied it rapidly to. each
eye in succession, at the same time shaking
her other hand to and fro in the air.

Don't take any notice,' she gasped ; ' I
shall be better soon.'

Presently she put the handkerchief into
her pocket again, and looked sternly at Elsie
with her little black eyes. 'You have distressed
me, dear  distressed me ex  ces-lively,'
she said.

Elsie apologised for her indiscretion, and
was forgiven ; but, after this conversation,
she ceased to prosecute any further inquiries
respecting her uncle's mysteriously constituted
system.

The Sundays at the Elms were the days
on which Elsie really felt homesick ; a sort
of solemn excitement then prevailed, which
she particularly disliked, and Aunt Caroline
assumed a peculiarly exalted and chastened
demeanour. The church they attended was
at some distance ; for although there was one
close at hand, the views of the incumbent
were not in accordance with those of Mrs.
Lindsay, who, therefore, drove in state, in a
closed carriage, to the village of Gravehurst,
which was rather more than a mile distant,

accompanied by as many of her household as
could contrive to find room in the carriage.

The vicar of Gravehurst was the Reverend
Ernest Maynard, a nephew of Miss Cecilia
Maynard, and a connection of Mrs. Lindsay.
He had not been long in this parish, and
had formerly had a curacy in the east end
of London. He had devoted himself to the
work there with great earnestness and zealand
it was with reluctance that he relinquished
it for the country living which had been
offered to him ; but his health having given
way, he yielded at last to the persuasions of
his friends, and had now been settled at
Gravehurst for nearly two years. He was
a great favourite with Mrs. Lindsay, who
considered him a most earnest and self-devoted
young man ; but she found that
even his views required a little alteration,
which she never lost an opportunity of recommending
to him. She was apt to complain
that he was very stubborn in argument,
as he was too conscientious to disguise his
convictions in the smallest degree for the

sake of making himself agreeable to any
lady, however influential. Mrs. Lindsay had
studied character to some purpose, however,
and she could recognise and respect genuine
merit, when it was not opposed to her
strongest prejudices.

She was a thorough matchmaker, and,
almost from the moment that Elsie came
under her roof, she had decided that she
had at last found the wife for Ernest
Maynard. The pretty vicarage, with its
snug rooms, its sunny garden, and its flowering
shrubs and creepers, would be a fitting
home for her fair young niece. United to
Ernest, her character would develop into all
that could be desired ; while, under Aunt
Caroline's direct supervision, they would
jointly become, as time went on, an ornament
to the Church, a pattern to the neighbourhood,
and a blessing to the nation at large.
Animated by these hopes, Mrs. Lindsay lost
no opportunity of bringing the young people
together. Besides Mr. Maynard's occasional
week-day visits, at which she always contrived

that Elsie should be present, she used, after
service on Sunday mornings, to linger at the
vicarage until it was time to return home
to dinner. Early dinner was one of the Sunday
observances at the Elms, and helped to
render the General's life a burden to him on
that day.

On fine days this half-hour at Gravehurst
was usually spent in the garden, when Mrs.
Lindsay would so arrange it that the vicar
and Elsie should walk on in front, while she,
hanging on the General's arm, viewed from
a distance the objects of her benevolent
designs.

Even as regarded mere outward appearance
(thought she), how perfectly they suited
one another ! Ernest Maynard, with his dark,
thoughtful-looking countenance and severely
clerical deportment ; and Elsie, fair and
graceful, with her soft eyes and sweet serious
face, listening with such attentive gravity to
the instructive observations of her pastor !

Mrs. Lindsay fully enjoyed the dramatic
effect of the situation. Though in principle

Strongly opposed to the theatre, she was,
unconsciously, an actress by nature, many of
her words and gestures being, as it were,
thrown in for effect. Yet she was very quick
to see and to despise affectation in others,
and perhaps it was Elsie's very straightforwardness
and simplicity which so won
upon her.

During these promenades in the vicarage
garden, Miss Maynard was usually sentenced
to remain in the house, on account of her
well-known imprudence, and liability to catch
cold. This poor lady was really delicate, and
subject to attacks of bronchitis, especially
during the trying spring months. The weather
being unusually fine this year, she suffered
less, but about the middle of June she caught
cold, no one knew how, and was laid up for
nearly a fortnight. Elsie was for some time
forbidden to enter the patient's room ; but
having one day ascertained from Parkins
that she was sitting up, she went to pay her
kind friend a visit.

Miss Maynard was seated in an arm-chair,

wrapped up in shawls and blankets, and looking
very disconsolate ; she seemed much
cheered by seeing Elsie, and after this the
girl went to visit her daily, bringing her
flowers and strawberries, and entertaining her
with descriptions of all that went on downstairs.
When this state of things had lasted
for about a week. Miss Maynard seemed so
well that Elsie suggested her return to the
drawing-room.

I am sure the change would do you good,'
she said.

I think it would, dear, but as long as my
cough lasts, I fear I must remain a prisoner.
It tries your dear aunt so to hear any one
coughing.'

Tries her !' said Elsie indignantly ; ' what
nonsense! If I were you I should just come
straight downstairs and cough as much as
ever I liked.'

'Oh no, dear!' said Miss Maynard,
appalled by the audacity of this proposal.
I saw how much it disturbed her when she
came into my room this morning. And then

VOL. I. K

my unfortunate nervousness ! I always cough
more when she is present. She has been
so tried, too, to-day, by the conduct of that
headstrong young kitchenmaid.'

Has she ? What did the kitchenmaid
do ? ' inquired Elsie with interest.

She was overheard by Parkins conversing
with the gardener's boy,' replied Miss Maynard
in a lowered tone. ' But hush, my love !
your aunt would not wish it spoken about.
She has really felt it sadly. Let us talk of
other things  you are too young to know
life's cares and trials.'

Elsie sat down and gave her mind to the
subject. After awhile she said, *We have
so many trials, here in England, and feel
them so much. At home I never dreamt of
feeling everything in that way  I do not
think my father would have liked it. Of
course if I broke my leg  or lost a near
relation  or put all my money into a bank
which failed  I would say I had a trial, but
here everything is so different. Why, if
Herbert has put too many coals on the fire,

that is a trial, or if anybody spills their
tea '

Miss Maynard sighed. ' You have the
buoyancy and the light-heartedness of youth,
dear child.'

Have I ?' said Elsie  ' I do not know.
I have not felt light-hearted, but then I had
always so much to think of at home.'

Elsie went slowly away to her own room,
and sat down by the open window. ' Yes ! I
had a great deal to think of at home, but
there was some sense in it there,' she said
to herself ' Here I seem so useless and
unnecessary  but so I should be if I went
back ; in fact, more so. What should I be
doing now if I were at home ? This time

last year ' and Elsie's thoughts wandered

back to Rossiee ; to the sea, the fir-woods,
and the moor. Ah ! how sweet it was in the
early summer time, when the cold winds of
spring were past, and she lived out of doors
the whole long day. How pleasant the fir-trees
smelt in the dry sunshine, and how
bright were the little summer flowers ; milkwort

and white bedstraw and tormentil, and
bell-heather, pale pink and rich purple. And
down by the burn the meadow-sweet and the
bracken would be growing tall and thick.
And in the evenings she would linger out
until her father came and scolded her ; it
seemed such a waste of time to go to bed,
while a streak of light stayed all night in the
northern sky.

I wish I had known then,' she thought,
that I should be here now ; I should have
enjoyed it even more  I would not have
wasted a moment. And if anything good
ever comes to me, I will remember, and
enjoy it ; it would be such a pity if it were
lost. And in the meantime, I am happy 
really quite happy ; I might easily be worse
off than I am now.'

I will have hopes which cannot fade

For flowers the valley yields,
I will have humble thoughts, instead

Of silent, dewy fields ;
My spirit, and my God, shall be
My seaward hill, my boundless sea.'

By Elsie's arrangement Miss Maynard did
come downstairs that very afternoon, and her
recovery was soon complete.

Elsie had far more influence with her
Aunt Caroline than she herself knew. She
had never been accustomed to be contradicted
or thwarted in small things, and this gave
her manner a fearlessness and freedom before
which Aunt Caroline gave way. Within
certain limits, she came and went as she
would, and she enjoyed an immunity from
censure and supervision which surprised those
who knew Mrs. Lindsay better. To the

petty restrictions which were imposed upon
her, Elsie submitted with gentle patience,
however unreasonable they appeared to her.
It was only common gratitude, she thought,
to yield in small matters to one who treated
her with so much affection. She had submitted
to her father in his angry moods, less
from timidity, or even filial reverence, than
from her naturally gentle, peace-loving disposition,
joined to a compassionate toleration
for his infirmities of temper. Curiously
enough, she associated Aunt Caroline with
him in her mind, and considered that elderly
people were often a little unreasonable, and
must be humoured and made allowances for.
For her Aunt Grizel she had a more genuine
respect ; she placed a good deal of reliance
on her judgment and good sense, qualities
which she did not credit her Aunt Caroline
with possessing. Even to Aunt Grizel, however,
she had never given her full confidence ;
she thought her too old to be startled by any
new or unfamiliar ideas.

As time went on the life at the Elms grew

very wearisome to Elsie, and she needed all
her patience and self-control. Her occupations
were all so different from what she had
been used to ; she took little interest in them,
and found them petty and trivial. After her
two hours of study, she was expected to
remain in the drawing-room with some sort of
needlework till luncheon time. Elsie rather
disliked needlework of any sort, and entirely
detested the kind which she had to do,
which consisted chiefly of patchwork quilts
for hospitals. It was not till the afternoon
that she was able to breathe the fresh air
which at Rossiee she had almost lived in,
never allowing any sort of weather to keep
her in the house. After luncheon, the elder
members of the party went for a drive;
Elsie usually declined to accompany them,
and was left free till their return, but there
were scarcely any walks she could indulge in.
Mrs. Lindsay did not like her to go to the
river ; she might not walk on the road for
fear of tramps, nor on the streets, which
were ' not respectable ; ' there was nothing

left but the gravel drive, the garden, and the
paddock, and with these Elsie was fain to
content herself.

On Tuesday afternoons she went with
Miss Maynard to a missionary working party,
where they met most of their female acquaintances
in the neighbourhood. These were
not much to Elsie's taste, nor, indeed, to that
of Aunt Caroline. The families at Chipping-ham
were, as a rule, rather below Mrs.
Lindsay in social standing ; and though she
enjoyed reigning like a queen in the midst of
her little circle, she admitted no one to very
great terms of intimacy. Occasionally, Elsie
was taken to a garden party, or a picnic, but
it was not an event of frequent occurrence.
She had never had any girl friends, and at
first she was interested, and curious to meet
girls of her own age ; but she found that she
had almost no tastes in common with her new
acquaintances, who, on their parts, thought
her reserved and proud. On her return from
these social gatherings, she would seek the
society of Hans, her first and only friend ;

and, retiring with him to a corner of the
sofa, would caress and talk to him, and tell
him how beautiful he was, and how brave,
and how elegant, with any other adjectives
which occurred to her as appropriate.

Elsie was very sensitive to kindness, and,
unused as she had been to meet with any
demonstrations of affection, she was touched
by those which her new friends lavished
upon her, even though they began at times
to be a little oppressive. The way in which
all her time was arranged for her, and an
account required of whatever she had been
doing, became very irksome ; yet sometimes
she found an extra half-hour in which she
could slip down to the river, which had a
peculiar charm for her. She had discovered
a little nook amongst the willows, unseen
from the house, where she could sit and
watch the water, but the existence of this
retreat she kept a secret. She had also one
other resort. Nearly opposite the entrance
gate, and a little way up the slope, a side
road led to a large, new, red brick church.

The ground about it had evidently been
newly laid out, and was planted with minute
shrubs of Portugal laurel, rhododendron, and
holly. Elsie went up this road at first partly
out of curiosity, partly because it seemed
quiet, and finding that one of the church
doors was always kept open, she went in.
The quiet and the soft subdued light attracted
her, and after the first time she often went
again. She would gladly have attended the
daily five o'clock service, but as her aunt disapproved
of the church, on account of the
incumbent's views being, as she said, Ritualistic,
Elsie did not like to distress her by
doing so frequently. She went, however,
whenever she could do so without attracting
much attention, not from a preference for any
forms in particular, but because the service
and the beautiful music soothed her, and
lifted her above all the petty worries and
annoyances at home.

This week-day church-going was a part of
Elsie's conduct which was totally incomprehensible
to her aunt, although Mrs. Lindsay

did not like absolutely to forbid it. If Elsie
liked going to All Saints Church on ordinary
days, and even sometimes when there was
no service going on, how much more, one
would think, ought she to be delighted and
edified by the ministrations of Mr. Maynard,
both in church and at home ! Yet these
privileges never seemed to afford this strange
girl the smallest gratification.

Ernest too, on his part, did not betray by
his manner that peculiarly ardent affection
for this young member of his frock, which
Mrs. Lindsay was certain he must inwardly
feel. The apparent insensibility of both was,
to say the least of it, very disheartening ; but
Mrs. Lindsay kept all misgivings to herself;
confiding to the General her hopes, but not
her fears.

Poor dear young man ! ' she said, hastening
to her husband's room one day, after Mr.
Maynard had left the house,  'there can be
no doubt where his affections are placed ! '

Eh ? ' said the General  ' where's that ? '

Dearest Henry ! you know whom I

mean. I only hope our darling will appreciate
his full worth.'

Oh  ah ! yes. Maynard, to be sure.
You were going to marry him to one of the
Dales, weren't you ? *

I allude, of course, to your own niece,'
said Mrs. Lindsay sharply.

The General fidgeted and looked uncomfortable.


Little Elsie ? ' he said deprecatingly.
Pretty girl, Elsie. Too pretty for a
parson, eh ? '

The General's marked preference for
pretty girls, and indifference at least, if not
aversion, to the clergy, were a source of great
distress to his wife. She was sorry she had
mentioned the matter to him at all, the more
so, as he lost no time in remonstrating with
his niece on the subject.

'Well, Miss Elsie!' he began, * what's
this I hear ? Caught the parson, eh ? '

I ? ' said Elsie, colouring indignantly.
What do you mean. Uncle Henry ? '

The General was about to explain himself

at length, but Mrs. Lindsay looked up sternly
from her writing, and sharply tapped the
table with a pencil. ' Henry ! ' said she 
silence ! Silence, Henry ! ' and the General
was quenched.

This little conversation had more effect in
furthering Mrs. Lindsay's wishes than all her
previous efforts. The next time Mr. Maynard
called, Elsie absented herself, and during the
following Sunday's walk her manner was
cold and distant. This naturally caused Mr.
Maynard to wonder what was the matter
with her, and after a course of self-examination,
he discovered that it was her presence
which made the Elms so attractive to him,
and that his Sunday walk in the garden
would lose all its charm if she were not by
his side.

This discovery startled and disturbed him
not a little. He had had some thoughts,
now that his health was re-established, of
returning to his London work amongst the
poor and outcast, and he was shocked to find
himself becoming comparatively indifferent

to their miseries, and turning his thoughts
towards a Hfe of worldly ease and happiness.

After a week or two Elsie, having forgotten
her uncle's speech or attaching little importance
to it, returned to her former manner, with
perhaps a touch of additional kindliness, as
she saw Mr. Maynard so evidently depressed
and harassed ; and Mrs. Lindsay observed
this state of things with growing satisfaction.
At length Ernest, tempted as it were on all
sides, determined to try what absence and a
visit to the scene of his former labours would
do towards effacing this new image from his
mind.

One hot day in the beginning of July he
walked to the Elms to inform the ladies thereof
his intended absence, and to bid them
good-bye for a time. He found Mrs. Lindsay
alone, Miss Maynard and Elsie being in the
garden engaged in their botanical studies.

Mrs. Lindsay heard of Ernest's intended
departure with much surprise, not unmixed
with indignation, and expressed her disapproval
in her usual emphatic manner.

Going to London for a month ! My dear
Ernest, what  in  the  world can have
prompted such a step ? '

You know, my kind friend, that I have
always intended returning there ultimately,
and I have lately been led to fear lest a life
of ease should lead to mere self-pleasing, and
should weaken this purpose in my mind.'

Now, now, Ernest,' said Mrs. Lindsay,
nodding her head, ' don't you be self-opinionated.
You know very well what I have
always thought of this foolish, and self-conceited,
and inconsiderate scheme of yours.
I do not approve of it in any shape or in anyway.
It may be all very well for those
whose systems are so constructed as to
withstand the anxieties, and the fatigues,
and the '

Forgive me for interrupting you, but I
have considered the matter well. I have
already provided myself with a substitute fora
month only, and you know I have settled
nothing finally.'

'You cannot deceive me, Ernest. There

is something which you are concealing from
me

As she said this with extreme sternness,
Mrs. Lindsay pointed her forefinger in the
direction of Mr. Maynard's waistcoat, as if to
indicate that she knew the exact spot where
the object alluded to was secreted. Ernest
felt his colour rising beneath her scrutiny 
he stammered and hesitated. ' I will tell you
all, Mrs. Lindsay, when I return  in the

meantime ' He rose and looked about

for his hat.

If you wish to acquaint your Aunt Cecilia
with your resolution,* said Mrs. Lindsay,
coldly but impressively, * you will find her 
with my niece  in the garden. And tell your
aunt, if you please, that I should wish to
speak to her. Now go  and beware, Ernest,
how you trifle with your own heart.'

Mr. Maynard, though a brave man, was
only too thankful to escape. Mrs. Lindsay s
last words had raised a tumult of feelings
within him, and before joining the two ladies
he paused a few moments to collect his

thoughts. At the bottom of the garden was
a small pond with a seat in front of it. There
he caught sight of Elsie's pale blue cotton
gown, and, on approaching, found her and
Miss Maynard intently examining some duckweed
through a magnifying glass.

I have been commissioned by Mrs.
Lindsay to find you, my dear aunt,' he
began.

Miss Maynard jumped up in a nervous
flutter at the message and her nephew's unexpected
appearance.

Does she wish to see me ? '

She wishes to speak to you presently, but

I was about to tell you ' He was unable

to finish his sentence, for Miss Maynard was
already on her way to the house. She had
been frequently warned by Mrs. Lindsay
never to make a third in any possible serious
conversation between Mr. Maynard and
Elsie ; and she forgot everything else in her
anxiety to carry out these instructions to the
letter.

Elsie laid aside her duck-weed rather re-vol.

I. L

reluctantly, and made some trivial remark which
Mr. Maynard scarcely seemed to hear; he
looked anxious and disturbed.

Miss Ross,' said he abruptly, * I came to
say good-bye to you and to my aunt, as I
am leaving Gravehurst.'

'Are you, Mr. Maynard?' said Elsie,
much surprised ; ' not for altogether ?'

By no means. I hope to return in a
month. Circumstances have made it desirable
that I should leave home for a short
time for change, and I intend revisiting my
old parish in the east end of London.'

You have not been well ? But I should
not have thought London a good place to goto
for change. Won't you be very hot ?
Not that I do not think a change a good
thing  an excellent thing,' said Elsie emphatically,
by no means wishing to hinder
Mr. Maynard's departure, which would be a
certain relief to her, yet disinterestedly anxious
for his welfare.

I am not ill,' he replied, ' and my personal
feelings are of little consequence. I have with

difficulty prevailed upon my friend, Mr. Talmud
Brooks, to exchange with me. He will
doubtless be greatly invigorated by country
air, while I ' He paused.

'That,' said Elsie approvingly, * is a good
action. I hope you will not suffer from it in
any way, and I am sure it will do your friend
good. It is very hot, even here,' she added,
rather languidly.

Miss Ross,' said Ernest presently, ' you
told me the other day when I asked you that
you found your life here somewhat empty
and hollow. Have you still that feeling ? '

I did not mean to complain of my life
here,' said Elsie hastily. ' I am very  very
comfortable, you know, and every one
is as kind to me as possible. It is very
different from home, of course, but I should
be most ungrateful if I complained.'

Then you no longer find your life
hollow ? '

Elsie had tilted her hat back and was
gazing meditatively at the sky ; she now set
it straight, and looked at Mr. Maynard.

Indeed I do,' she said with decision.
I find it getting hollower and hollower.'

Mr. Maynard appeared deeply pained.

There must be a fault somewhere,' he
said. ' Have you ever attempted any parish
work  such as district visiting ? '

I have thought of that,' said Elsie ; ' for
so many of the ladies here do a great deal,
and I would have gone to see some of the
poor people, but then you see we are not in
your parish, and Aunt Caroline does not
approve of Mr. Broadway's poor, or Mr.
Montague's either, and my uncle thinks
I might catch diseases and bring them home.
You know it does not do to annoy my uncle
and aunt ; it makes them ill ; so it really
does not seem as if work amongst the poor
were the duty appointed for me.'

Elsie's face was so young and childish as
she gravely looked up at him for advice, that
Mr. Maynard felt that to speak his wishes
then would be premature as well as weak ;
but he scarcely felt in a mood to give her
pastoral counsel as to her duties.

I will send you a little book of mine,' he
said, ' if you will accept it. It is entitled
Reassuring Remarks, spoken at Random.
I must leave you now.'

Won't you come in ? ' said Elsie. ' Miss
Maynard will be vexed not to see you again
before you go.'

But Ernest, not daring to risk another
encounter with Mrs. Lindsay, made a hasty
excuse and departed.

Elsie watched him as with long hurried
strides he reached the little garden door and,
passing through it, disappeared.

He is a good man, I do think,' she said
to herself. ' I would really like him quite
well if Aunt Caroline did not worry me so
about him. But, oh dear ! he is dull  or is
it I who am dull ? He always answers meas
if he did not understand, or thought me a
fool ; but then so do all the people hereabouts.
I am of a different sort somehow ;' and Elsie
sighed.

I am not going to begin and think about
my trials, though ; I am here, and I must

just Stay here, and there is no use in making
a fuss. If I were at home I should have a
large trial in the shape of Euphemia, probably
worse than any here. Come along, little
Hans ! I know you miss the rabbits too, but
we must be resigned, and not wish for what
we cannot get. Perhaps if we behave very
well, we may have some parish work given
us, and is not that more ennobling than
hunting rabbits ? '

So saying, Elsie went slowly towards the
.house, and presently caught sight of Mrs.
Lindsay tapping the window and beckoning
from within.

What are you about, child ? ' said she
irritably as Elsie entered, ' remaining out so
long in the heat and glare ? '

Oh, I like the heat. Aunt Caroline,' said
Elsie cheerfully, ' as long as I don't have to
work. Mr. Maynard is going to London 
he told you so, did he not ? He was sorry
he had not time to come in again.'

Oh, I know where he is going,' said Mrs.
Lindsay  with a peculiar intonation, as who

should say : ' I knew all about that, and a
good deal more, long before yotL came into
the world ; '  ' and he knows what I think of
the scheme ! Ah, self, self ! how it blinds
our eyes ! '

I thought it nice of Mr. Maynard to go,'
said Elsie, much puzzled. ' Why do you
think it selfish, Aunt Caroline ? He merely
wishes to cool his friend. Surely no one
would go to the east end of London out of
selfishness.'

What did he say to you, child ? ' asked
Mrs. Lindsay, rather mollified by this warm
defence of Mr. Maynard, and looking curiously
at her niece. Elsie seated herself,
took her hat off, and considered.

He said  that circumstances had made
him wish to go to London for a month, and
that his friend was coming to Gravehurst, ashe
needed change of air. And he asked me
if I ever did parish work, and when I said I
did not, he promised to send me a book
called Obscure Observations, or some name
like that, and  that was about all, I think,

except that he hoped you would excuse his
coming in.'

Mrs. Lindsay was dissatisfied, but it was
impossible to doubt that Elsie had faithfully
reported the substance of the conversation.

Obscure Observations, child ! '  this with
increased irritation  ' when will you learn to
arrange, and properly to express, your ideas?
How can that be the title of a book ? '

No more it is, Aunt Caroline,' said Elsie,
laughing a little ; ' I forget the name, but
really it was something very nearly as
funny.'

The hot weather was succeeded by several
days of constant thunderstorms, which produced,
indoors as well as out, what Elsie
mentally termed 'an atmosphere.' Mrs.
Lindsay was irritable and ' tried ;' Miss Maynard
depressed and tearful ; while the General,
who was always in the greatest force
when other people were ill or out of spirits,
often unconsciously stirred up strife by his
cheerful but inapposite remarks. The rain
confined everybody to the house, and even

the dogs shared in the general discomfort,
which Bijou, in particular, greatly added to,
as want of exercise always disagreed with
him.

Elsie was therefore agreeably surprised
one morning at finding Aunt Caroline radiant,
and full of mildness and benignity. A letter
from the General's grand-nephew, David
Lindsay, offering an immediate visit, had
been the cause of this happy change. The
moment breakfast was over Mrs. Lindsay
bustled away to make preparations, which
were to be on a scale of splendour proportioned
to such an event as the arrival of their
Indian hero,' for so Aunt Caroline termed
him. Elsie begged for a history of his exploits,
but being unable to ascertain from her
uncle that the young warrior had ever seen
actual service, or distinguished himself in anyway,
she was disposed to be somewhat contemptuous
of all the commotion made in his
honour. The excitement of the mistress was
fully shared in by the domestics, to judge by
the bustle which prevailed on the stairs, 

housemaids running hither and thither, and
Parkins reigning as viceroy in the guest-chamber,
arranging and dictating.

After luncheon Mrs. Lindsay issued her
final orders for the ensuing day, when the
guest was expected to arrive.

This, my love,' said she to Elsie, * is the
key of the china closet. Will you assist
Parkins in bringing out the best dinner-service
for tomorrow's use, as Howell, with
William and Herbert, are already fully
occupied in polishing the plate ? I need not
tell you, dear, that the flowers in the drawing-room
must be freshly arranged  that you
always do very nicely.'

Elsie readily undertook these duties, glad
of anything which pleased and amused her
aunt ; whilst the latter busied her brain in
picturing to herself how the arrival might be
rendered most effective. The whole household,
arrayed in their best, should line the
entrance-hall, while a brass band playing
martial airs outside might be a pleasing addition
; but this last suggestion was overruled

by Trotter, the coachman, lest the horses
should be startled.

A sad end, however, was put to all these
preparations. The next day, just as the
decoration of the drawing-room was completed,
a telegram was brought in and handed
to Mrs. Lindsay. She took up the yellow
envelope, and dropped it as if it were a
burning coal. ' Those dreadful telegrams ! '
she gasped. ' I cannot open it.'

Elsie picked it up. ' Open it, Aunt Caroline,'
she said cheerily, ' it may be nothing.'

Thus encouraged, Mrs. Lindsay at length
tore open the missive, which proved to be
from David Lindsay, from London. ' Detained
here by business  very sorry  hope
to come tomorrow  will let you know.'

Mrs. Lindsay sank back in her chair
panting.

'Oh dear, dear!' wailed Miss Maynard.
After all our anticipations ! '

Tiresome creature ! ' said Elsie indignantly.
' I have no patience with him ! '

'Hush!' said Mrs. Lindsay, raising herself.

'Control yourself, Cecilia!  Do not
give way to temper, dear'  to Elsie. She
sat upright, and looked around her with an
air of lofty composure. * Take away that
bowl of roses,' she said presently ; * the perfume
is overpowering. Cecilia, be kind
enough to ring the bell'

There was silence till Herbert appeared.

'Tell Howell,' said Mrs. Lindsay, 'that
we shall not require the best china this evening.
We shall not require it.'

When Herbert withdrew she rose majestically.
* I must go to my husband,' said she.
Employ yourselves, my dears.'

Throughout the day Mrs. Lindsay maintained
the heroic fortitude which had distinguished
her conduct in the morning ; the very
unexpectedness of the shock brought with it
an excitement which upheld her. During
dinner, and while the General was in the
room, she conversed upon every-day topics
with studied cheerfulness ; at other times she
was impressively silent, only speaking when
she saw occasion to enforce some moral lesson

upon her hearers. The next day passed in
much the same manner, all mention of a
possible visitor being avoided. Elsie asked,
indeed, when she came downstairs in the
morning whether Mr. Lindsay were coming,
but her aunt merely waved her away with a
shake of the head and a sweet smile of resignation,
and after luncheon the party, with the
exception of Elsie, set out for their usual
afternoon drive.

. . . Wot's a beauty ?  the flower as laws.
But property, property sticks, an' property, property grass.'

In one of the midland counties, amidst fine
pasture land and timber, stands a large and
handsome house called Alkerton Priory.
This property had been for some time in the
market, and had only been taken possession
of since Ladyday by its new owner, Mr.
Fitzgerald. It was an old house, built of
the rich-coloured yellow stone peculiar to the
district ; its stately front looked down upon
green meadows, with groups of elm and oak
trees, stretching away as far as the eye could
reach, until they melted into the sky, and the
wooded distance faded into a soft blue mist.

In front a sluggish river crept winding
through the meadows, its course almost
hidden by the thick grass. Only one dark

spot was to be seen upon the landscape,
where a group of yew-trees cast their shadow,
near a pond where white water-hies grew,
and on which a pair of swans were saiHng.
The garden was laid out in terraces, and
there a number of peacocks were walking up
and down, displaying their splendid plumage.
The hot July sun poured down upon the
mellow - tinted walls of the house, against
which pink roses bloomed in rich clusters.
But within all was cool, with the fragrant
coolness of an old country house in summertime.
The hour was about ten o'clock, and
three people were at breakfast in the oak
panelled dining-room. Places had been laid
for four, but one was empty, and a well-filled
tray had just been carried out by the butler,
the delicacies with which it was heaped
showing that, whatever might be the nature
of the invalid's complaint, loss of appetite was
not one of its symptoms.

Lady Eleanor Fitzgerald, who presided at
the head of the table, had finished her breakfast,
and was reading some letters with a discontented

air. David Lindsay, her eldest
son, was standing at the window, trying to
tempt the peacocks with bits of bread, while
Lionel, the younger, having helped himself
to a slice of melon at the side table, proceeded,
after a pause of thoughtful consideration,
to empty the contents of the cream-jug
over it, and to eat it, slowly and critically,
yet not without some appearance of approbation.


Well, mother, any news ? ' asked David,
throwing his last piece of bread at a sparrow,
as the peacocks remained insensible to his
blandishments.

A letter from Caroline Lindsay,' replied
his mother. ' No news. I wish you would
offer a visit there, David. They want you to
come, but they don't know when you are
disengaged. Lionel, dear boy, you will make
yourself so ill. Who ever heard of eating
cream with melon ? '

111 !' returned Lionel with scorn. * I wish
there was anything to get ill upon. Cream,
indeed ! I don't even call it milk. In

Devonshire we had at least cream if we had
nothing else.'

It is poor here,' said Lady Eleanor, looking
sadly at the empty cream-jug. ' I detest
the midland counties myself, but as it is dear
Frederick's fancy I give way to it. I have
sacrificed myself to my family all my life.'

Her sons exchanged glances expressive
of some surprise at this statement, and Lady
Eleanor resumed the perusal of her letter.

'Yes, David,' she said when she had
finished, ' I think you should certainly go.
The old General seems to be failing a good
deal. Listen to what she says. ** We are
much interested in the mission for Ping-yang"
 that's not it  let me see  "a truly
sweet and attractive young person,"  it must
be on the other sheet. Oh ! here it is. *' My
darling husband has recently been prostrated
by two of his distressing attacks, one following
the other, which have greatly reduced his
strength." '

What's that about an attractive young
person V asked David, who appeared to

VOL. I. M

have been more interested in the former
paragraph.

Oh, nothing at all. Some girl she has
living with her,' said Lady Eleanor impatiently.
' But really, David, you ought to
go and see the poor old man who has always
been so fond of you. It would be a real
kindness.'

'And who knows,' said Lionel, rising from
the table as he spoke, ' that the old boy might
not come down handsome in his will ?*

Peace with thy scurrilous jests,' said
David. ' Well, mother, I don't mind if I do
proffer myself as a guest at the Elms for a
short time, particularly as there is a young
lady there possessed of so many charms. I
should like to hear about her.'

Nonsense, David ! I do wish you would
not make yourself ridiculous. This is a girl
she seems to have adopted, and of course she
will rave about her. Elsie Ross is her name ;
she comes from Scotland. There is nothing
particular about her.'

David assumed a meditative air. ' If you

seriously think, mother, that she is nol attractive,'
said he slowly, ' it might be best, all
things considered, not to go there at present.'

Then, David, it is very selfish and
wrong of you, quite wrong I call it, to neglect
a clear duty. Supposing the old man were
to die  he might go off at any time in one
of these attacks  you would reproach yourself
all your life long.'

He would indeed,' put in Lionel solemnly.

And this girl has no claim upon him
whatever. I don't suppose she will have a
penny. She may be pretty ; I daresay she
is. Her mother was a sweet creature, and
so distinguished looking ; she was a cousin of
your poor father's. But she chose to go and
bury herself at some little Scotch farm '

And she's dead  is she V asked David.

Oh yes ! years and years ago. And this
girl, brought up amongst boors and '

Bullocks ?' suggested Lionel.

'What sort of manners can you expect
her to have ! But all Caroline Lindsay's
geese are swans.'

With these words, intended to arm David
against the snares of beauty unaccompanied
by merit (or wealth, which is the same thing),
Lady Eleanor sailed away, followed presently
by her two sons.

The brothers were a marked contrast to
each other. Both were handsome ; David,
the elder by nearly five years, was tall,
bronzed, and active-looking, with bright blue
eyes and a pleasant smile. He had not long
since returned from India on leave from his
regiment, and having been absent from home
for three years, everything was new to him,
and he was disposed to be amused and
pleased by all that went on around him.
He was naturally of a cheerful, buoyant disposition,
and owing to this, perhaps, and his
good health, he had got through life so far
easily and pleasantly, and had never given
his mother the least uneasiness ; whereas
Lionel, with his delicate health and wayward
temper, had been a perpetual source of
anxiety and disappointment. Yet it was on
Lionel that by far the most of her motherly

affection was expended. He resembled her
very closely in features ; he had been a
beautiful child, and was now a handsome lad
of eighteen, with large liquid brown eyes,
straight features, and masses of rich dark
curly hair, which he wore too long to suit
David's soldierly ideas. But the chief unlikeness
to his brother consisted in the listlessness
and languor of his whole manner.
Every turn and movement betokened that
indolence which was the chief characteristic
of the spoilt boy. As he had been thought
too delicate to go to a public school, he had
been sent to one private tutor after another,
learning as little as he chose from each, and
leaving as soon as he got tired of his surroundings.
And now he was reading to
enter Oxford, spending two hours of each
day with Mr. Blandford, a neighbouring
clergyman, who had undertaken to coach
him.

The only study, however, which seemed
to rouse him to a real interest, was that of
music, for which he had an uncommon taste

and talent. He had now almost outgrown
his boyish delicacy, and David's prospects
were at present the objects of his mothers
chief concern.

For Lady Eleanor had long since planned
both her sons' future lives for them, which
she felt herself perfectly competent to do,
having all her life succeeded in getting her
own way somehow. David, who was the
heir to Ardvoira, a small West Highland
property, and had distant expectations of a
Scotch peerage, would not be at all well off,
and ' must marry money,' while Lionel, who,
she was resolved, should be his stepfather's
heir, could afford to marry whom he pleased,
subject of course to her approval.

The two brothers strolled out together,
and the family did not meet again till
luncheon, at which meal Mr. Fitzgerald
assisted.

Lady Eleanor's second husband was Irish
by birth, though he had never visited his
native country since his childhood. His
father had been a merchant in Liverpool,

and from him Mr. Fitzgerald had inherited
a large fortune.

He was a quiet-looking man, with a particularly
soft voice and mild deportment, and
was entirely thrown into the shade by his
handsome and stately wife. No one, to
judge by his appearance and manner, would
believe that he had quarrelled with all his
neighbours in Devonshire, and had not a
single relation of his own with whom he was
on speaking terms. He was, however, a
kind and affectionate husband, and was upon
the whole very indulgent to his stepsons,
though he had some peculiarities of temper,
and was excessively fanciful about his health.

Do you feel equal to a drive this afternoon,
Frederick ?' inquired Lady Eleanor.

A drive, my dear Eleanor } You forget
that none of the horses are fit to go out at
present.'

Mr. Fitzgerald kept very fine horses,
which he was apt to consider too delicate
and expensive to be used.

They never are fit to go out, it seems tome,'

said Lady Eleanor. ' I suppose you
keep them for the grooms to ride.'

You must take the pony carriage to-day
if you wish to drive,' said Mr. Fitzgerald.

The roan mare could go, I daresay. And
do pray, Eleanor, go and call upon the
Freemans ; they are our nearest neighbours,
and you have never yet returned their
visit'

Well, if you will drive me ' began his

wife.

I fear I am quite unequal to the exertion.
You, David  or Lionel, can drive your
mother.'

It would do you all the good in the world
to go out,' said Lady Eleanor, displeased.
*And I see no occasion to call upon the
Freemans.'

Mr. Freeman is an excellent man,' said
Mr. Fitzgerald, who had never seen him.

I esteem and respect him highly.'

'He is a true - born Briton,' observed
Lionel, ' one of that noble Saxon race whose
soul ever disdained a foreign yoke.'

How do you know that, Lionel ? ' asked
David.

He said so himself, and he ought to
know,' replied Lionel. ' I have been reading
his speech at the county meetings, and so
apparently has papa. You ought certainly to
cultivate their acquaintance, mother.'

How am I to call upon them ? ' said
Lady Eleanor. ' Nobody can get in at their
gate.'

That big gate does not open,' said David.
Most of the entrance-gates hereabouts are
constructed on principles which prevent their
ever opening. You go in at a little side door.'

They are Anglo-saxon gates,' explained
Lionel, ' and were erected to resist William
the Conqueror.'

Which of you two is going to drive me ?'
inquired their mother, who had now no intention
of letting them off.

You will find David exactly adapted for
the ofhce, mother. He knows all about
Anglo-saxon gateways, you see. You take
her, David, like a good fellow.'

David made no objection. He was the
one of the family who generally did any little
duty which the others found too irksome, and
the pony carriage was ordered forthwith.

We have no title-deeds to house or lands ;

Owners and occupants of earlier dates
From graves forgotten stretch their dusty hands,
And hold in mortmain still their old estates.'

BuLCOTE Manor, the residence of the Freemanss,
was distant from the Priory about
three miles by the road. There was a
short cut to it across the meadows, which in
summer formed a very pleasant walk ; but as
there were two stiles to be got over, besides
having to cross the river by a plank. Lady
Eleanor found it easier, as well as more
dignified, to drive on the occasion of this her
first visit.

Their way led along a pretty road
bordered by tall trees, but as these had
been lopped of their lower branches, they
did not afford much shade from the baking

sun. The roan mare tossed her head and
switched her tail incessantly as they jogged
along, trying to free herself from the flies
which kept settling on her in black clusters.

Really this stifling heat is unendurable,'
said Lady Eleanor, putting up her parasol.
What must it be in London ! The girls
will be glad to get into the country, I
daresay.

What girls ? ' asked David.

*The Mortimer girls  your cousins. I
expect them here next week. Your aunt
writes that Constance is quite worn out.'

To be sure,' said David, ' I forgot. Are
they all grown up now ? I remember Rosamond
and Constance, and a little one.*

Blanche  oh yes ! she was presented this
year. She is a fine-looking girl, but none of
them are half as pretty as poor Rose.'

Is Rose coming too ? '

No, she is going home. I suppose she
does not exactly like to leave that husband of
hers any longer. Poor thing ! what a mistake
that marriage was.'

If she chose to marry that ruffian,' said
David with some severity, ' I do not see why
she is to be pitied if it turned out a mistake

Not to be pitied ! ' exclaimed his mother.
How could she know he would go mad, and
have to be shut up ? '

If he's shut up, why does she not want
to leave him ? '

'You are dreadfully matter-of-fact, dear
David,' said Lady Eleanor impatiently. *He
is not shut up always  only when he is
violent. Though / think it a very great pity
she ever lets him out. I consider your uncle
and aunt very much to blame,' she continued,
first to make her marry the man, when they
knew what his character was, and now they
take no steps to have him put under proper
restraint.'

Did she not marry him of her own freewill
then ? '

My dear boy, you need not look so fierce !
I don't suppose she was in love with him 
but everybody thought it such a good match
and so it was, if he could only have kept

sober. It was quite against my advice though,
I am glad to say.'

David said nothing, but his face grew so
dark that his mother was puzzled.

'Can he have cared for Rose?' she
thought. ' Impossible though  he was such
a mere boy.'

She would have liked to question him, but
scarcely dared to do so at that moment ;
David's unusually stern expression almost
frightened her, and the next turn of the
road brought them in sight of Bulcote
Manor.

It was a picturesque-looking house, with
irregular gables, and high, narrow latticed
windows ; it was built of the same yellowstone
as Alkerton Priory, and was probably
of still older date. No creepers grew upon
its walls, but lichens, gray and yellow and
white, made its tone still more subdued.
The red-tiled roof had become a purple-brown
from age, almost crimson in places,
and stained here and there with patches of
golden lichen.

The narrow road up which they had last
turned led them past the front of the house,
where was a square grass plot, or green court,
as it was called, surrounded by high hedges
of yew and privet. Just in front frowned the
gate which had formed the subject of discussion
at luncheon, and from which no driveled
to the house, but the green turf 'grew
close up to the gate. There were no flowers,
indeed there they would have seemed almost
out of place ; all was cool, green, and quiet.
A few paces farther on, half hidden by the
bushes, there was an opening just wide
enough to admit a carriage ; it led past the
house to the stables and outhouses at the
back, while at the side a small green door in
the yew hedge gave admittance by a flagged
path, leading through the green court into
the house.

Now, David,' said Lady Eleanor in a
tone of triumph, as they came to the fast
shut gate, ' how are we going to get in ?
This is exactly what I told Frederick, but no
one attends to what / say. '

'It is all right,' replied David, 'it is not
meant to be opened. See, here is where we
drive up.'

I will not drive up there,' said Lady
Eleanor. ' Nothing shall induce me  a most
dangerous turn. Stop, David, I desire you.
I insist upon your opening that gate.'

David endeavoured to remonstrate, but in
vain. Lady Eleanor was rather nervous ina
carriage ; the roan mare began to fidget
and to back, and the corner was really a little
awkward to turn.

David, I shall get out.'

She was actually on the point of doing so,
and David pulled up.

Do let me drive you to the door quietly,'
he said, much annoyed. ' It isn't respectable
to stand here wrangling before the people's
windows.'

I will not,' said Lady Eleanor, getting
out, and regaining her dignity as she reached
terra firma, ' I shall sit here until that gate is
opened.'

'Very good,' replied David, who was now

thoroughly out of temper, ' you will sit sometime
then.'

So saying, he was about to drive on, when
he again received an unexpected check. A
small, freckled boy, panting and very hot,
burst suddenly through the hedge on the
right-hand side of the road, startling the mare
so much that she stood straight up on her
hind legs, and remained for some seconds in
that attitude.

Papa sent me,' gasped the boy breathlessly.
' We are all making hay in the
Bury Ham. If you're callers, you're to come
there. '

We are callers,' David responded meekly,
but what and where, my young friend, is the
Bury Ham ? '

Down there,' said the boy, pointing, and
at the same moment a lady hurried up to
them exclaiming 

Oh dear ! I was afraid there had been an
accident. I hope no one is hurt.'

Lady Eleanor had by this time recovered
from her alarm. ' Thank you, not at all,'

VOL. I. N

said she graciously, shaking hands with Mrs.
Freeman. * My son,' darting a revengeful
glance at David, *did not understand your
entrance. But you are busy, and we are
interrupting you  David *

*Pray do not go,' said Mrs. Freeman
eagerly. She was a fair, faded woman, with
rather a harassed expression of face, and a
high-pitched, plaintive voice.

If your son will drive round, my little boy
will show him the way. Oh! here is my
husband. John, Lady Eleanor Fitzgerald
is here, and '

Glad to see you, my lady,' said Mr. Freeman.
'Glad to see you too, young sir.
Tommy ! take that horse round to the
stables.'

David and Tommy drove off together,
and Mr. Freeman once more addressed himself
to Lady Eleanor.

You couldn't have come at a better time,'
said he heartily. * You'll see us all making
hay ; I allow no idle hands here, I can tell
you. This way, my lady, come along.'

No, John,' said Mrs. Freeman, * Lady
Eleanor would rather come indoors

What ! and lose the sight of the hay-making
?' exclaimed Mr. Freeman. ' I tell
you, we're all there, down to the very sucking
infant. Lady Eleanor never saw anything
like it in her life, I'll be bound.'

I shall be charmed to see it,' said Lady
Eleanor coldly, ' I delight in the country, and
in farming ;' and the party proceeded to the
Bury Ham.

This was a large meadow, which lay to
the right of the house, sloping down to the
river, and presented a bright and busy scene,
as every one upon the farm had turned out
to help in tossing the hay.

All the young Freemans, too, were there,
eleven in number ; Edith, the eldest, holding
the above-mentioned infant, while the intermediate
ones were busy with forks, suited to
their various sizes.

Now, youngsters !' said the Squire, * work
with a will, all of you. Here's Lady Eleanor
Fitzgerald come to look on. She doesn't see

a sight like this in her fine London houses
And Mr. Freeman set to work himself with
great vigour.

He was a burly middle-aged man, with
sandy hair, and a face rather like a bull-dog's,
at present very red with his exertions. He
was in his shirt-sleeves, and wore a broad
straw hat.

Mrs. Freeman made room for Lady
Eleanor on a bundle of hay by her side.
Miss Edith, who was just grown up, and
anxious that everybody should be aware of
this fact, resigned the baby to her mother,
and seated herself near them, lest perchance
she should be confounded with her two next
sisters, Bessie and Polly, who were still in
the schoolroom. But Miss Goodenough, the
governess, although a lady of a certain age,
having instructed Mrs. Freeman when she was
a girl, did not disdain to toss the hay, or rather
to sprinkle it about in a ladylike manner.

David, with Tommy Freeman, now
appeared, and were at once pressed into
the service.

David took off his coat and set to work
vigorously, whereupon Miss Edith, resuming
her fork, recommenced her labours with an
industry edifying to behold.

Lady Eleanor began to wonder how long
this state of things would continue. Mrs.
Freeman, whose stock of conversation was
getting exhausted, at last inquired if she disliked
the strong scent of the hay.

I think it charming,' said Lady Eleanor,
quite charming ;' and she surveyed the scene
languidly.

You do not find it too warm ? Shall we
not come into the house and have some
tea?'

Lady Eleanor again glanced at David,
but seeing that he showed not the faintest
sign of leaving off, she answered, ' Thank
you, Mrs. Freeman  if you are going in.
The fact is '  rising and shaking the hay-seeds
from her dress  * I have been stung
by a gnat. I am a martyr, a perfect martyr
to insects

Mrs. Freeman handed the baby to her

daughter Bessie, bidding her find the nurse,
and then led the way into the house.

We are paying you a regular visitation,
Mrs. Freeman,' said Lady Eleanor. * I do
not know when that boy of mine will be able
to tear himself away.'

It is particularly pleasant that you are
here to-day. Lady Eleanor. Our neighbours
at Alkerton used often to come and spend
the day with us at hay-making time. My
husband is so fond of keeping up old English
customs ; he never will have a machine to
toss the hay.'

Lady Eleanor answered that old customs
were exceedingly delightful, and Mrs. Freeman
continued 

*Yes, there was always a strong friendship
kept up between Alkerton and Bulcote,
although latterly we saw little of the poor
old Squire. Poor Mr. Popham ! he was
quite broken down by his son's death, butin
his good days he used to tell the story
of how, when his father went out riding, with
his wife on a pillion behind him, on one

occasion they fell into a ditch, but were taken
out, and dried at the hospitable mansion of
the Freemans.'

Perhaps you thought something of that
sort had happened when we arrived,' said
Lady Eleanor, whose wrath against David
was in no way diminished by this narrative.

Oh, this is the entrance. What a charming
old place !' she added with genuine admiration
as they walked up the flagged path
through the green court.

'Do you think so .' said Mrs. Freeman.

I should have liked some flowers, but '

Oh no !' said Lady Eleanor, ' it is perfect
as it is. So picturesque  so thoroughly in
keeping!'

She paused to look round her before going
into the house. Mrs. Freeman pushed open
the door, and they went into the hall. This
was a large room, paved with stone, and
having a wide and deep fireplace at one
side ; it contained no furniture except a
long oaken table, a sideboard, and some
chairs.

This is where we dine,' said Mrs. Freeman.
* There are so many of us, you see.
My husband likes to have early dinner, withall
his children round him.'

Lady Eleanor shuddered. * You are
fortunate, Mrs. Freeman,' said she, ' in having
all your children still with you. We
mothers are seldom able to keep our sons
long. Have you a tutor for your boys ?'

No, they attend the grammar-school at
Wroxbury daily. Mr. Bacon, the master, is
an excellent man, and it is not far off. My
husband likes to have all his children under
his own eye. To-day they have a holiday
for the hay-making ; my husband thinks they
ought to be trained to be useful. But I will
ring for tea.'

She opened a door which led out of the
hall into a little parlour, and rang the bell.
This is our sitting-room,' said she.

Lady Eleanor glanced round. The furniture
was scanty and rather the worse for
wear ; the carpet was threadbare, particularly
in one part, which had been used by the

lesser children as a racecourse, and on the
doors the paint had been kicked off as high
up as the handles.

The door on the other side of the hall
leads into the book-room,' said Mrs. Freeman.
Should you care to see it ?'

Her visitor assented, and they crossed the
hall. The book-room corresponded in size
to the parlour, and, except that the walls were
lined with old books, presented much the
same appearance.

There are some valuable books here,'
said Mrs. Freeman. * My husband is justly
proud of his library, although he does not
care to open a book himself; and I have not
much time for reading.'

Here a tottering step was heard, and Mrs.
Freeman went hastily into the hall, where an
old gray-headed man-servant was seen slowly
making his way to the parlour door.

Blencowe,' said Mrs. Freeman, speaking
very loud and distinctly, * bring tea into the
parlour. Tea Blencowe.'

The old man turned slowly round, and

scratched his head doubtfully. 'Tea?' said
he after a short pause.

'Yes,' said Mrs. Freeman. 'Tea, and
bread and butter, and cake.*

'Cakes repeated Blencowe, looking as if
this last was almost more than he could bear;
but seeing that his mistress was not likely to
be turned from her desperate resolve, he
departed muttering to himself. The two
ladies then went into the parlour, and after a
considerable lapse of time, Blencowe returned
empty handed. He went into a corner of the
room, and after much apparent exertion, at
last succeeded in bringing forward a small
three-legged table, which he placed before his
mistress' chair. He then proceeded to rap it
several times with the palm of his hand, in
order to see if it was steady. Finding that
it was decidedly shaky, he uttered a satisfied
grunt and went away again. After another
ten minutes the aged Blencowe returned, not,
as Lady Eleanor had fondly hoped, with the
tea-tray, but with a small chip of wood in his
hand, which he carefully fixed under the

shaky leg ; then rising, he smote the table as
before.

That will do, Blencowe,' said Mrs. Freeman
wearily. Blencowe gave the table a
final rap, then went off again, and came back,
this time with a cloth. Having spread it, he
again shambled away, and after another long
interval, the tea-tray was borne in in triumph.
Setting it down cautiously on the table, the
old man panted out 

Best not go for to shake that, now.'

Finally, a plate of thick bread and butter
and a large home-made cake were brought,
and Blencowe having remained a few minutes
to contemplate his handiwork, and to ascertain
if his mistress stood in need of any further
advice, at length thought fit to retire, and
was seen no more.

'Poor old Jacob Blencowe!' said Mrs.
Freeman, beginning to pour out tea. * He
has served my husband's family faithfully for
fifty years, and he will not give up working,
though he is certainly too old. We do all
we can to spare him.'

Lady Eleanor was much shocked at this
speech ; she earnestly represented to her
hostess, to whom she had taken rather a
fancy, the extreme desirability of keeping
old servants ; a race of beings at whose
hands she declared herself to have suffered
*an absolute martyrdom' during her early
married life.

Meanwhile David, feeling that he had
sufficiently done his duty in the matter of
hay-making, informed Mr. Freeman that he
feared he must reluctantly abandon that delightful
pursuit.

*Ho!' said the Squire, as he wiped the
moisture from his brow, * had enough of it, I
daresay.'

Not at all,' protested David, putting on
his coat. * I should be delighted to go on
for  for any length of time. But I have to
drive my mother home, you know.'

Well, you have earned a drink,' said Mr.
Freeman, laying down his fork, but not resuming
his coat. * Have a taste of my home-brewed.'


They walked together to the house, the
troop of children, led by Miss Goodenough
and Edith, following them.

You don't know much of farming, I
suppose,' said Mr. Freeman.

*Well, I've not been brought up to it
exactly,' replied David. * I've been in India
with my regiment ; and my people never
owned a property till now.'

'My family,' said the Squire, 'have lived
on this soil since the days of King Alfred.
We've been farmers for generations, and I
ain't ashamed of it. We're respected in the
neighbourhood, I can tell you.'

Here a labourer passing touched his hat.

They all do that,' said the Squire ; * they
touch their hats to me  plain John Freeman
as readily as to the Duke of Brazenose.'

David expressed the satisfaction which
this happy state of things afforded him, and
the Squire continued : 'It's all very fine to
have a handle to your name, and so forth,
but the Duke is not one whit more respected
than I am. Not but what he's a civil man

enough, as dukes go,' said Mr. Freeman
charitably. * He never passes my gate without
saying, 'how d ye do, Freeman ? Fine
weather for the crops "  or the like. Once
he asked leave to make a short cut through my
spinney. I gave it to him too '  in a meditative
tone. * I'm not against doing a good
turn to a neighbour. But now for the home-brewed.'


They had by this time reached the hall,
and the Squire, taking two huge tankards
from the sideboard, despatched Edith, who
was close behind, to get them filled with ale.
The rest of the children tumbled in a body
into the parlour, followed by Miss Good-enough,
who endeavoured to exercise some
slight restraint upon the younger members.
Edith joined them as soon as she had fetched
the ale. And now a general clamour began
in the parlour.

Mamma, may I have some tea } '

May I have some too, mamma } '
'And I?' 'and I?'

Oh, mamma ! I want some cake ! '

I cannot possibly give you all tea,' said
Mrs. Freeman in her plaintive, oppressed
voice. ' You may finish the bread and butter,
if you like. Miss Goodenough, will you
take a cup of tea ? Edith dear, here is
yours.'

The children's attention having been
directed to the bread and butter, there was
quiet for a moment, then again the outcry
arose 

Mamma, my piece had no butter on it'

Mamma, Eddy's piece was much bigger
than mine.'

Mamma, Alfred's taken the last.'

Mayn't I have some cake, mamma ? '
Mrs. Freeman cut two large slices of cake

into fragments, and distributed them impartially
; and at the same moment the Squire
and David made their appearance. Mrs.
Freeman offered the latter some tea, which
he declined, and asked leave to fetch the
carriage. The children, with whom he
seemed to have become rather popular,
accompanied him in a body, slamming the

door violently as they went out. Lady
Eleanor once more shuddered visibly.

*And how do you like Alkerton, my
lady ? ' inquired Mr. Freeman, crossing his
legs ; he had thrown himself into his armchair.


I have hardly been there long enough to
judge replied Lady Eleanor in her most
chilling tone ; ' it is extremely inconvenient
in many ways.'

Oh ! I daresay you feel being so far from
church,' said Mrs. Freeman sympathetically.

Well, that is undoubtedly a great drawback,'
said Lady Eleanor, to whom this disadvantage
now occurred for the first time ;
and then the utter want of servants' accommodation
'

I don't know about that, I am sure,'
said the Squire. * Fine old place, though ;
historical, they say. I don't pretend to know
much of these matters, but Miss Goodenough
here will tell you. She has it all at her
fingers-ends.'

Alkerton Priory,' said Miss Goodenough,

Opening her mouth in instruction, * was built
about the commencement of the fifteenth
century ; it has since been greatly altered
and added to. It was taken possession of
by Master Wilfred Popham, after the ejection
of the monks by Henry VIII.'

'A fine old Saxon family, the Poplars,'
put in the Squire.

'Yes,' said Miss Goodenough, 'a brave,
but unfortunate race. Misfortune, it was
formerly believed, pursued the sacrilegious
possessor of church lands, and this remnant
of Romish superstition acquired some credence
in the minds of the ignorant peasantry
in this neighbourhood from the fact that from
first to last the family of Popham has been
subject to a series of the direst calamities.'

Really ? ' said Lady Eleanor, rather
startled.

This is not very pleasant hearing for
Lady Eleanor,' said Mrs. Freeman. *You
must not think '

'Pshaw!' said, the Squire, 'a pack of
papistical rubbish. It was a happy day for

VOL. I. O

England when the rascally old monks were
cleared out. As to the Pophams, to be sure
the old Squire did lose his money, and his
eldest son broke his neck out hunting, but
what has that to do with church lands, I
should like to know 1 '

At any rate, let us hope that the monks'
vengeance was satisfied upon the Pophams,'
said Lady Eleanor.

Half a dozen or so of the children now
burst into the room to announce that the
carriage had come, and Lady Eleanor and
David, having made their adieux with many
polite acknowledgments of the delightful
afternoon they had spent, at length drove off,
and reached home without further adventure.

The drive was accomplished almost in
silence, for Lady Eleanor met all her son's
attempts at conversation with such determined
ill-humour that he judged it more
prudent to leave her to her own reflections.
Had David seemed disposed to be aggrieved
or out of temper himself, her own injuries
would have been forgotten, and she would

have found a virtuous satisfaction in lecturing
him on the disobliging and uncharitable spirit
which he displayed ; but David, although he
made some wry faces over the recollection of
the home-brewed ale, seemed to have been
rather exhilarated than otherwise by his
afternoon's work. Therefore, his having left
her for nearly an hour and a half with a
neighbour with whom she did not care to
become intimate was an offence which she
was not then disposed to condone.

At the hall door they were met by Lionel.
Well ! ' said he, ' have you only just come
back ? The Anglo-saxon gate did not then
succeed in repelling the Norman invader ?'

You boys are always talking about Anglo-saxons,'
said Lady Eleanor indignantly, as
she swept into the house. ' And / consider
it an exceedingly poor joke.'

And though I stood abash for a lite,
No wonder was ; for why ? my wittis all
Were so o'ercome with pleasance and delight 
Only through letting of my even fall 
That suddenly my heart became her thrall
For ever of free will, for of menace
There was no token in her sweet face.'

Before David could carry out his intention
of offering a visit to his relations at Chipping-ham,
a letter arrived from Mr. Macdonald of
Ardvoira requiring his immediate presence In
London about some business connected with
the estate. Mr. Macdonald was an old
infirm man, and David, who was his cousin
and next heir, was glad to be able to relieve
him of any troublesome business transactions
to which the old man was unequal.

I shall have to go up to town this afternoon,'
he observed at breakfast one morning.

a day or two after the visit to the Freemans.
Old Ardvoira seems very urgent that I
should see Turnbull at once, as he happens
to be in London.'

'Why, what is the matter?' asked Lady
Eleanor.

Some business about the rents,' replied
David, who was not inclined to be very communicative
about his affairs, ' and seeing this
chap now will save me a journey to Glasgow.
I don't want to go to Scotland before the
Twelfth.'

Why not start at once .' said Mr. Fitzgerald,
who, arrayed in a gorgeous Japanese
dressing-gown, was breakfasting with his
family that morning. * You young men are
always procrastinating. You could be ready
in half an hour.'

You could go down to Chippingham
on your way back, David,' said his mother,
who had been meditating upon her own
schemes. * It would not be much out of
your way.'

And there you could make love to the

fair Elsie Ross,' said Lionel. * Allow me to
contribute a suggestion.'

*You speak like a book, mother,* said
David, ignoring the proposals of the other
members of his family. ' I'll write to the
General as soon as I see my way.'

'Whilst you are away, I shall have your
room put to rights  scrubbed said Lady
Eleanor resolutely. 'The house has been
left in a disgraceful condition, so Mrs. Betts
tells me.'

Good heavens ! ' exclaimed David,
scrubbed ? what a violent proceeding ! I
am sure it is quite clean.'

'As to you, Lionel,' she continued, 'your
room is worse than David's. You will have
to turn out, and live in the west wing for a
few days.'

'Why?' said Lionel sulkily. 'I'm not
going to have my room scrubbed. It's a  a
beastly thing to do.'

Do not talk such nonsense,' said his
mother. ' People must be clean, I suppose.'

Clean ?' retorted her son. ' There is

nothing mor filthy than soap and water. It
gets Into the crevices and breeds a pestilence
'

Will you be quiet, Lionel?' groaned Mr.
Fitzgerald, holding his head. * You are
insupportable.'

'Why?' again demanded Lionel. 'I am
only telling you that soap and water '

I am not sure that turpentine and beeswax
' began Lady Eleanor.

Beeswax your grandmother ! ' shouted
Lionel. ' Leave it alone altogether, I say.'

A hot argument then ensued between
Lionel and his parents, which lasted during
the whole of breakfast-time. David was
thus left to arrange his plans as he liked
best ; by and by he proceeded leisurely to
the stables, followed by Lionel, who only
stopped at the door of the dining-room to
have the last word by intimating his unalterable
conviction that nothing putrefied, or breda
pestilence, so rapidly as soap and water
when applied to a bedroom floor, unless it
was beeswax and turpentine.

Poor old Freddy seems rather short in
the temper just now,' observed David, lighting
a cigarette. * I fancy he is more so than
he used to be. Uncomfortable in his inside,
I suppose, poor old chap.'

He is always rather chippy on the days
when he puts on that dressing-gown,' said
Lionel, * but he has got another which is
worse ; the one, you know, with Leviathan
taking his pastime thereon. I don't see any
particular signs of decay about him, however.
What train do you go by, David ? '

2.48,' replied David. ' Why not come
up to town with me, and get your hair cut ? '

You forget, my dear fellow,' said Lionel,
puffing himself out in imitation of his stepfather,
* that I am studying for my matriculation,
and every moment is precious. Have
I time to waste in personal decoration ?'

'It is true,' said David seriously, * you
never will pass, Lionel, if you go on as you
are doing. And if you don't get into Oxford,
what the dickens are you going to do ?'

I shall go to Australia. I have thought

of it often, and it is the only thing I am fit
for.'

Oh !' said David incredulously.

So you see it does not matter whether I
pass or not. Come and look at the hunters.'

They were in the stable by this time, and
Lionel was examining with great interest the
two hunters which were destined for his use
in the coming winter, apparently oblivious of
his lately expressed intention of leaving the
country.

After a prolonged survey of the horses,
Lionel somewhat ostentatiously informed his
brother that he was now going to Mr. Blandford
; and on entering the library to fetch a
book, he found his parents there holding a
conference.

Lady Eleanor's mind was for the moment
so full of David's prospects, that she could
not rest till she had poured all her doubts
and perplexities into her husband's ear.
Mr. Fitzgerald was too much occupied with
his own ailments to be a very sympathetic
listener, but for this his wife cared little ;

it never occurred to her, apparently, that
her own grievances were not the theme of
everybody's thoughts, and a Listener of some
sort was a necessity to her.

It is awkward this letter having come
for David just now,' she said. ' Though if
he does not take this opportunity of going
to Chippingham, he'll never do it, and I
should be so unhappy if he were to offend
old General Lindsay, who has invited him
twice since he came home.'

Undoubtedly he ought to go,' said Mr.
Fitzgerald. ' I do not comprehend your
difficulty, my dear Eleanor.'

Don't you know the Mortimerss are
coming here next week, and we shall have
to make up a party ? Then I wanted to
ask Laura Stockton. Such a nice girl, you
know  really a superior girl. The society
of women like that is just what David
needs. She is not like the general run of
girls, thinking of nothing but amusement'

Exactly so,' said Mr. Fitzgerald. * It
is a most extraordinary thing, Eleanor, that

whenever I stretch out my left arm  in this
manner  I feel the most exquisite pain.'

Do not stretch it out then, dearest
Frederick, I implore you. And you know,
on the death of an aunt, she will come into
nearly 3000 a year.'

'Can it proceed from the heart T inquired
Mr. Fitzgerald irrelevantly.

Can what proceed '.  oh, your arm ; nonsense
! you have kept it too long in one
position. You see, there is no use in asking
any nice girls whilst David is away.'

David is far better unmarried yet awhile,
I should say. Why not leave him alone ?'

He will be falling in love,' said Lady
Eleanor solemnly ; * I know it. He is just

at the age ' At this moment the door

opened ; she stopped, but seeing it was only
Lionel, she continued : 'He is just the kind
of boy to ruin himself by some imprudent
attachment ; and if we do not throw nice
girls in his way, whose fault will it be but
ours ? I am not sure but that I ought to
give Caroline Lindsay a hint. What do you

think ? Those young men just home from
India always want to marry every girl they
see. Now you know they do, Frederick !'

Frederick appeared doubtful, but Lionel
promptly replied for him : * Certainly they
do, mother  a most immoral frame of mind.
That is David's condition to a T.'

Leave the room, sir ! ' suddenly thundered
Mr. Fitzgerald, rousing himself to a supreme
effort. * Eleanor, that boy is insufferable.*

Lionel dear, do not be so tiresome,' said
his mother. * Why do you not go to your
reading ? Well, Frederick, I see your armis
paining you ; come upstairs, and I will
send for Pritchard.'

I am going,' said Lionel with condescension.
' Do not disturb yourselves on my
account, I beg.'

He then very deliberately chose three
books out of the shelves, after which he
proceeded slowly to the door, stopping on
his way to smell the flowers, and to make a
careful examination of every object that he
passed ; then apparently changing his mind,

he went suddenly to the window, swung
himself out, and disappeared. Mr. Fitzgerald
groaned.

You are ruining that boy, Eleanor, and
unless a severe course is taken with him, he
will be a disgrace and a scandal to all with
whom he is connected.'

You have excited yourself, Frederick,'
said Lady Eleanor coldly. ' I suppose you
forget that the doctor forbade all excitement ;
but there is no use in talking to you whilst
you are in this state.'

She left the room in displeasure, and
went to find her elder son, but David kept
himself well out of the way till luncheon
time, and as he started on his journey immediately
afterwards, she had no opportunity
of speaking to him alone.

On his arrival in London, David went at
once to the lodging of Mr. Turnbull, and,
being requested to wait a little until that
gentleman came in, he employed his leisure
moments in writing a note to Mrs. Lindsay
to offer a visit.

It turned out afterwards that he had been
premature in making his plans, as the business
which had brought him to town detained
him longer than he expected ; and it was not
till two or three days afterwards that he
found himself at liberty. Whilst in the train
on his way to Chippingham, he suddenly
recollected that he had forgotten to let the
Lindsayss know exactly when to expect him,
as he had promised to do in the telegram
which he had despatched the day before.

It can't matter much, however,' he
thought, * as they seldom have any visitors ;
and if the house is full, I can but go away
again.'

'Well, Howell, how are you? All well
here ?' said he, as the butler's well-known
face appeared at the door.

Thank you, sir, all tolerably well, sir.
Glad to see you returned. The General
and the ladies is out driving, sir.'

Oh ! ' said David, pausing with his foot
on the step.

But Miss Ross is in the garden, I believe.

sir. Shall I send to the station for your
baggage ?'

No, never mind, the porter is going to
send it up.'

David walked into the drawing-room, and
from the windows took a careful survey of
the garden, in order to ascertain, if possible,
what Miss Ross was like before making her
acquaintance. He could see no one, however,
so he stepped out through the window,
and walked leisurely round.

The plants had been somewhat battered
by the recent rain, and a hedge of sweetness,
which had been laid flat, was just beginning
to recover itself, but the sun now
shone out bright and hot, and had already
tinged the apricots on the south wall. The
pond at the bottom of the garden was not
visible from the drawing-room windows, and
as David approached it, he caught sight of a
girl's figure in a white dress, sitting on the
garden bench. Her face was turned away,
and she did not see him ; she seemed to be
watching three or four white ducks, which

were swimming in the pond, and which,
every now and then, reversed themselves,
after the manner of ducks, and seemed capable
of remaining head downwards in the
water for a surprising length of time.

There was something listless and drooping
in the girl's attitude ; from where David stood
he could see the thick plaits of fair hair under
her sailor hat, and note the graceful outlines
of her figure. Across her knee she held the
long stalk of a tall white lily, which had been
broken by the rain. It was a pretty picture,
the young man thought ; he wondered what
the face would be like, when she should turn
it round ; he wondered what she was thinking
of so intently. Beside the girl, on the gravel
walk, a little brown dog lay asleep in the sunshine
; it was stretched out In the attitude of
a dead pig, and did not, therefore, add to the
poetry of the scene.

David came a very little nearer ; the dead
pig gave signs of returning life. A fly had
settled on Hans s nose ; he sneezed, knitted
his brows, and suddenly becoming aware of

an intruder, he growled fiercely, while every
hair on his back and tail stood erect, ' like
quills upon the fretful porcupine.' His mistress
turned round, and David, taking off his
hat, came forward hastily.

I have arrived unexpectedly, I fear. I
hope I have not startled you,' he said.

Elsie rose, apparently not in the least
startled or discomposed. ' Mr. Lindsay ? '
she said in a half-questioning voice.

Before she was aware of his presence,
David had unconsciously been keeping himself
from disappointment, by thinking that
the face which was turned from him was
probably plain ; but he could find no fault
with the small oval face, the delicate features,
or the clear gray eyes which met his so
frankly. He felt almost as embarrassed as
if she could have read his thoughts, and only
said rather awkwardly 

We are cousins, I think.'

I believe so,' said Elsie demurely. * We
have been expecting you, but Aunt Caroline
did not know when you would arrive.

VOL. I. p

They will be back from their drive very
soon.'

She maintained some slight degree of
severity in remembrance of his offence, but,
mindful of the laws of hospitality, she was
prepared to relent the moment she saw signs
of contrition.

The fact is, I forgot to send another
telegram. I hope  do you know  is it inconvenient
in any way ?'

Not in the least,' said Elsie cordially.
Uncle Henry has been looking forward to
seeing you. Hans!' turning to admonish
him slightly with the stalk of her lily  ' will
you stop growling at your cousin!' for Hans
had continued to protest in a sort of musical
undertone, ever since the arrival of the
stranger.

David laughed heartily, and stooped down
to make friends with the little dog.

My aunt used to have a pug,' he said.

Yes,' replied Elsie, ' she has two, but
they have gone out driving. Aunt Caroline
will be disappointed not to have been in when

you came. She had prepared a grand reception
for you yesterday,  but perhaps '

hesitating a Httle  ' it may be just as  comfortable
for you not to have it.'

Reception ? ' said David ; ' you alarm
me. What on earth was she going to do ? '

Never mind, it won't happen now  there
is the carriage !'

If Elsie expected that the young man
would at once joyfully hasten to greet his
relatives, she was mistaken ; for David lingered,
and expressed his opinion that it was
'only some one come to call.'

No, I saw the carriage. Howell will tell
Aunt Caroline you are come ; had you not
better meet them ?'

David rose reluctantly. ' Are not you
coming in ?' he said.

I shall come by and by,' replied Elsie
placidly ; and he had no choice but to depart.

From her garden-seat she presently heard
the loud barking of the pugs, followed by a
chorus of exclamations, and smiled a little
to herself. She waited until she thought

that the first raptures had had time to subside,
and then went in to make the tea, as
was her daily duty.

On entering the drawing-room she found
Aunt Caroline seated beside David on the
sofa, holding his hand tenderly between both
hers, and gazing with fond affection into his
face, whilst the General and Miss Maynard
occupied positions in the background.

Elsie was glad to see that her aunt's disappointment
was wholly forgotten, and that
her uncle appeared to be in the best of spirits.
At dinner there was quite a lively flow of
talk and laughter ; no subject of conversation
was frowned upon or fraught with severe
moral lessons ; the Elms seemed like a different
house, and Elsie breathed freely in the
more genial atmosphere.

As a lily among thorns, so is my love among the daughters. '

Elsie felt grateful to David Lindsay for the
new life which he had brought with him, and
could not help finding him a most agreeable
companion to herself; while he, on his part,
was unconsciously fulfilling his mother's prediction,
by falling in love with the first girl
he saw.

Elsie's beauty attracted him in the first
place, and then her utter ignorance of the
world, her unlikeness to other girls, and her
disposition to look up to and admire his
superior knowledge, combined to render her
perfect in his eyes. He thought her the
loveliest creature the sun ever shone upon,
and every moment seemed wasted which was
not spent in her society. The visit of a few

days, which he had intended to make,
lengthened itself out indefinitely, to the
great content of his uncle and aunt. As
Elsie had once expressed herself glad that
her uncle should be kept happy and amused,
David exerted himself to the utmost to please
the old man, and, indeed, he would have
undertaken a far more difficult task to win
from her the least token of approval.

Although he could not discover from
Elsie's manner the smallest sign that she
returned his feelings, she treated him with
great cordiality, and they were soon on intimate
terms. Very early in their acquaintance
David had suggested that it was the
privilege of cousins to call each other by
their Christian names ; a piece of information
which Elsie received with meekness, and
immediately acted upon.

I have never had any cousins before,'
she said one day  'none that I knew, at
least.'

She and David were supposed to be playing
lawn tennis, but, having soon become

exhausted by the exercise, were now sitting
together on the grass.

How is it that you were never here
before ?' said David.

Why am I here now ? you had better
ask. I had not a stepmother before, and I
was the only one at home, you see.'

Odd that we should both be afflicted
with a step-parent. We ought to have great
sympathy with one another on that account,'
observed David sentimentally.

But your stepfather is very nice, is he
not?'

Poor old Freddy ! I suppose he is. He
is a terrible fellow for quarrelling with his
neighbours, but he was always very kind
to us.'

That's like papa. He quarrelled with
his neighbour  he has only got one  and I
think it was a great pity.'

Do you mind telling me the subject of
dispute ? '

It was a raven,' replied Elsie. ' Lord
Ochil kept a tame raven, and It used to

bite my father's legs when he went to
call.'

Oh ! ' said David, ' I don't wonder he
was hurt.'

His legs were not,' said Elsie laughing,
because he always wears very strong gaiters,
but  I suppose his feelings were. The raven
never bit any one else, and he thought Lord
Ochil kept it on purpose to annoy him. But
what did Mr. Fitzgerald quarrel about ? '

The occasions were so numerous,' said
David, ' I forget most of them. The last
was about a carpet-bag, if I recollect right ;
I rather think that was the cause of our
leaving Devonshire.'

Do you call your stepfather Freddy or
Frederick ? ' inquired Elsie after a long and
serious pause.

David laughed. ' I don't exactly call him
either, Elsie.'

I have always said ''Euphemia" in speaking
to my stepmother, although it sounds
rather familiar; that is why I ask you. What
do you call him, David ? '

'Well, I  a  In fact, I call him papa,' replied
David, blushing. ' It is his own wish,'
he added, recovering himself, ' and one does
not like to annoy him by refusing. If he expressed
a desire to be called Old Nick, I
should waive my scruples and consent.'

You are quite right,' said Elsie gravely.
Shall we have another game ? '

David very soon made it his daily practice
to present himself In the drawing-room during
Elsie's hours of study ; and after making
himself agreeable to Miss Maynard for a few
minutes, he generally Induced her pupil to
leave her books and come out with him; and
gradually he contrived that he and Elsie
should be together almost the whole day
long. Of course this could not go on without
Mrs. Lindsay's knowledge, but the idea
of David as Elsie's lover did not, at first,
enter her mind.

When in his aunt's presence, David took
little notice of Elsie, appearing to be entirely
engrossed with Aunt Caroline, who, in the
excitement of her nephew's visit, forgot to

take her usual Interest in all Elsie's proceedings.
She attributed the length of David's
stay entirely to his attachment to herself.
Dear good fellow ! ' she observed to Elsie ;
he appreciates so much the privileges of a
truly Christian home. Poor Eleanor is, I
fear, sadly given up to the world.'

Being desirous of exhibiting her Indian
hero to the neighbourhood, Mrs. Lindsay not
only took him with her to any festivities that
were going on, but even gave a garden party
at the Elms, an event which had been unheard
of for years, and which was on a scale
of splendour calculated to strike awe into the
hearts of the Chippingham population. David
expressed himself delighted with all these
entertainments, as well he might ; for did not
Elsie grace them all with her sweet presence,
and did not she far outshine the innumerable
maidens who, in their freshest muslin dresses,
thronged the lawns and gardens ?

Still, he preferred to have her society
alone, and soon found that in the grounds
they were much too liable to interruption.

Why should we not have a boat ? ' he
said one day. ' Do you ever go on the river,
Elsie ? '

I should love it,' said Elsie ; ' but I do
not believe we may. Uncle Henry once had
an attack because I walked by the river.'

'By yourself?' said David. 'I don't
wonder. I should say that was calculated
to produce the very worst effects upon him.
But with me  that is a very different thing.'

You really think I ought not to walk
alone ? I thought it such nonsense. They
do not even like me to go on the road for
fear of meeting a tramp  as if tramps ever
did anything to anybody ! '

Ladies are generally afraid of tramps,'
said David. ' I do not know that they are
usually ferocious ; but I consider it most
undesirable for you to walk by yourself. It's
enough to give anybody a fit  an attack,
to think of it.'

Ah, well ! ' said Elsie, ' perhaps you have
the Lindsay constitution.'

The proposal of taking Elsie on the river

did not find favour in Mrs. Lindsay's eyes ;
and she was now becoming rather suspicious
of the fraternal affection which she believed
to exist between her nephew and niece. In
one of her confidential talks with David she
had spoken enthusiastically of Mr. Maynard,
of his worth and talents, and hinted at the
desirability of Elsie being settled near her.
David had not said much in reply, but she
was struck by his evident dislike of the
notion, and he had very soon made an excuse
to leave her and go out. A few minutes later
she saw him and Elsie, apparently in earnest
conversation, walking leisurely through the
paddock in the direction of the river. From
that moment she determined to be on her
guard, and not permit the close intercourse
which had hitherto existed between the
cousins.

Where are you going, dear ? ' she said
that same afternoon, as Elsie reappeared
in the drawing-room after tea with her
hat on.

David and I were going to play tennis,'

was the answer ; and David opened the
window for her to step out.

By diligent practice I hope to make a
good player of her in time, Aunt Caroline,'
he said as he followed her.

Mrs. Lindsay waited till the pair were
gone, then she turned to Miss Maynard.
What are you aboztt, Cecilia ? allowing these
young people to be constantly together without
chaperonage ? ' she said in her severest tones.

Miss Maynard let the work fall from her
trembling hands, and looked up terrified. ' I
I did not suppose ' she faltered.

You did not suppose it was your duty to
guard and to watch over your young charge ?'
said Mrs. Lindsay indignantly. 'Pray, Cecilia,
for what purpose did Providence bestow
reason and eyesight upon you ? Now, dry
your eyes'  for Cecilia had already taken
out her pocket-handkerchief  'put on your
bonnet, and go at once to the tennis-ground.
Prompt and decided action may do much.
You cannot efface the past, but you may
atone for it in the future.'

The players had not yet begun their game
when Miss Maynard hurried towards them.

Is anything wrong ? ' asked Elsie, as she
went up to her and gently put her bonnet
straight.

No, no, dear,' said Miss Maynard tremulously
; ' I came to sit here a little and watch
your game.'

'And so you shall,' said Elsie, looking
round, 'but the grass is damp just here. If
she had a chair, David, or a rug  wait, I will
fetch one.'

David ran after her. * Must she sit here ?'
he whispered. * It is nonsense, you know ;
she will get rheumatism.'

She shall sit where she likes, poor dear,'
said Elsie, who had observed the traces of
tears on Miss Maynard's countenance. 'You
get her a chair, David, and I will fetch the
rug.'

David fetched both, and a footstool as
well ; Miss Maynard was comfortably placed,
and the game proceeded, but not with great
spirit. When the set was finished, David

again inquired with much solicitude whether
Miss Maynard did not find it damp.

'Not at all, thank you,' she replied; 'not
at all, but I am sure you have played enough ;
you will tire yourselves.'

Elsie laid down her racquet obediently,
and came and sat down on a corner of the
rug, while David stretched himself on the
grass, and began to play with the balls in
rather a gloomy manner. As he did so, one
of them accidentally struck Hans, who uttered
a loud squeak, but finding to his surprise and
joy that he was unhurt, he began to scamper
round the lawn in circles, as his custom was
when delivered from any imminent danger.
David could not help laughing.

Where did you get that little beast ? '
said he.

He came straight from Germany,' replied
Elsie, with pride, as she lifted Hans upon her
knee. ' Fraulein Meyer got him from her
uncle, Herr Butterkase, who is a very celebrated
dog-fancier.' She glanced at David
as she spoke, to see if he appeared impressed

by this information, but Herr Butterkase's
fame had evidently not reached his ears
before.

I am afraid, after all, he is not a pure-bred
dachshund,' she said, 'but I do not love
him any the less on that account,' and she
laid her soft cheek against his little brown
head.

David drew nearer, in order to caress him
also, saying insinuatingly, * I think he would
be the better of a walk ; don't you ? '

Miss Maynard hastily interposed. ' I
think, dear, your aunt would wish you to
come in ; you have done quite enough.'

After that day David had very few opportunities
of having any private conversations
with Elsie, which annoyed him the more, as
the 1 eth of August was approaching, and his
visit must soon come to an end. He was
bound to be in Scotland at that date, as old
Mr. Macdonald had invited a shooting-party,
and David was expected to entertain the
guests ; besides, he had arranged to travel
with his friend Ponsonby, who was to meet

him in London, so that he could upon no
pretext delay his departure. He felt that he
could not leave Elsie without ascertaining
her feelings towards him. True, he was not
at present in a position to marry, and had,
therefore, been inclined to hesitate before
deliberately seeking to win her affections.
But the hint about Mr. Maynard, which Mrs.
Lindsay had thrown out, decided him to try
his fate without delay. He knew that his
aunt would never rest until she got her young
charge married, or at least engaged.

And why not to me ? ' thought David.
I shall be able to marry in a year or two at
latest.' But the opportunity to speak seemed
denied him. He came into the drawing-room
one morning during Elsie's study hour,
asked in a very downcast manner for a sheet
of writing paper, and sat down to write a
note, with an expression of the deepest
melancholy upon his countenance. Elsie
glanced at him furtively from time to time,
as she was reading, wondering what had
happened. Had he received bad news ? had

VOL. I. Q

anything disagreed with him ? Presently
Herbert came in with a message that a young
person wished to see Miss Maynard in
Parkins's room.

One of my Friendly girls, dear,' said
Miss Maynard, rising. * How very inopportune
! She has come to consult with me
about a situation. Continue your reading,
my love ; I shall be back presently.'

As soon as she had gone David looked
up ; Elsie appeared to be reading diligently.

Elsie ! ' said he softly.

Is anything the matter, David ? bad
news or anything ? '

Not news, but  Elsie, I shall have to
start for Scotland on Tuesday.'

I see nothing bad about that,' said Elsie.
She kept her face turned away, and spoke
very quietly, but David noticed or fancied
that there was the least possible tremor in
her voice. Here was his opportunity, and he
was not slow to avail himself of it. Miss
Maynard's absence did not last long, but
before the ' Friendly girl ' had time to come

to a decision as to whether or not she could
bring herself to wash the front-door steps
(which was not her work at all, but Sarah's),
these two young people had fully arrived at a
mutual understanding. The sudden shutting
of a door by and by recalled Elsie to herself ;
she looked round startled.

Come out with me,' said David entreatingly.
' I have so much to say to you, and
we do not know when we may have another
chance ; ' and Elsie yielded.

What will Aunt Caroline say?' was her
first question.

Never mind Aunt Caroline, swill talk to
her. The thing may require a little explanation,
but she will be quite pleased in the end.
What your father will say is what I am more
anxious about at present.'

I do not see why my father should object,'
said Elsie slowly, and with the air of one who
impartially weighed the subject. ' I do not
see that he need care, one way or the other.
Why should he not give me to you as readily
as to Aunt Caroline ?'

My darling,' replied David, ' there is no
reason why he shouldn't, but every reason,
on the contrary, why he should. And that is
just what I hope to convince him of. But
he might possibly think, just at first, you
know, that we had not enough to live upon

Do you mean to go and see him, then ?
to go to Rossiee?' cried Elsie. 'Oh, David,
do ! it would please him, I think. It would
be better than writing.'

To be sure I mean to go. I shall go to
St. Ethernans  that is your town, isn't it ?
and walk out to Rossiee and call some fine
day.'

Elsie's eyes shone. 'You must go and
see Aunt Grizel too,' she said. ' But where
will you go for the night, David ? She
would take you in, I know, for my sake, and
because you are a relation. She will be
delighted to see you.'

I think I had better go to the inn, however.
I suppose there is one ?'

Elsie pondered. ' There is the. Star  but
I don't like your going to an inn, David ; it

is dreadful, when you are a relation. And
I doubt if it is very respectable. Much
better go to Aunt Grizel ; only be careful
with your portmanteau, and do not scratch
the paint off her front-door  she hates
that;

It was a great delight to Elsie that David
thus intended to make acquaintance with her
own people ; she no longer felt so cut off
from them, and they would be quite sure,
she thought, to like him ; how could they
help it ? She did not attach much importance
to David's confession of poverty, except that
it made her a little anxious that he should
avoid unnecessary expense. She therefore
once more warned him against the extortions
of the St. Ethernans innkeepers, but on being
assured by her lover that he could afford this
outlay, she was satisfied, and the conversation
wandered off to more interesting subjects.

They had forgotten to take any count of
time, and it was nearly the hour for luncheon
when an interruption came in the shape of
William, the footman, who informed them

that the General wished to see Mr. Lindsay,
as there was a telegram awaiting him.

Elsie, suddenly recalled to a sense of her
neglect of duty, and the rudeness towards
Miss Maynard of which she had been guilty,
fled into the house and up to her own room
with all speed, and joined the party at
luncheon in some trepidation. Her absence,
however, had passed unnoticed, except by
Miss Maynard, who, though a good deal
alarmed by it, had not dared to confess to
Mrs. Lindsay that she had for the moment
taken her eye off her pupil, whose disappearance
would thus be traced to her guardian's
negligence.

The arrival of a telegram for their nephew,
although no very uncommon occurrence, had
thrown both the General and Mrs. Lindsay
into a state of the greatest perturbation, and
messengers were despatched in all directions
to find and bring him in. He met his uncle
at the door, waving the envelope in great excitement,
and demanding to know its contents.
David read the message, crushed the

paper in his hand, and thrust it into his
pocket with a look of annoyance.

Eh, what ? what ? ' said the General ;
bad news, eh ? '

No, no, General,' said David, ' it's all
right. It is from my mother. There is
nothing in it to signify.'

David !' said Mrs. Lindsay, who, wrapped
in a shawl, had come out to support her husband,
*why do you not tell your dear uncle
the message ? Do you not see how you are
agitating him ? '

My mother's messages are apt to be a
little confused,' said David. 'She says my
stepfather is going to London to see his
doctor ; he has not been very well lately, you
know. She wants me to meet him at Paddington
this afternoon.'

'Eh? to-day?' said the General, * that's
quick work. And are you going ?'

My dearest David, you cannot, surely,
hesitate one moment ! ' cried Aunt Caroline,
who, having wound herself up to believe that
this message was one of life or death, had no

notion of bringing down her mind to commonplaces.
* You must fly at once to your stepfather's
side ; you must lose not an instant !'

I don't believe there is anything the
matter with him,' said David doggedly.
But there is no doubt I shall have to go he
added, making an effort to throw off his
irritation. * I think his train arrives at 4.30.
I am only sorry that my pleasant visit here
has come to an end so unexpectedly.'

Dear affectionate fellow ! ' murmured
Aunt Caroline, pressing his hand to her
heart.

The elders of the party were far too much
excited to notice Elsie's pale and troubled
looks, which were unobserved by all but
David. Mrs. Lindsay, with the General and
Miss Maynard, proposed to accompany her
nephew to the station, as an object for their
afternoon drive. Elsie was left at home, it
was * more judicious,' Mrs. Lindsay thought ;
yet it gave the lovers time to exchange a
parting word, whilst the ladies were putting
on their bonnets.

As he bade her farewell, David cautioned
Elsie to say nothing to Aunt Caroline of their
engagement.

I have no time to explain it to her,' he
said hurriedly, ' and if she were annoyed at
first it would all fall on you. I shall come
straight here when I leave Scotland, and
then '

It would be more convenient if she knew,'
said Elsie, looking troubled, 'but I will do
what you think best, David.'

'The carriage is at the door, sir,' said
Howell.

Mrs. Lindsay was a little surprised that
Elsie did not appear at the door to say goodbye
to her cousin ; she would have sent for
her, but the bustle of getting into the carriage
occupied some little time ; and the General,
one of whose constitutional infirmities was a
nervous dread of being late for trains, would
hear of no delay, and hustled them off with
such rapidity that his own walking-stick.
Miss Maynard's parasol, and the pug Bijou
were left behind in the confusion.

You may train the eagle
To stoop to your fist,
Or you may inveigle

The phoenix of the East.

The lioness, ye may move her
To give o'er her prey.
But you'll ne'er stop a lover.
He'll find out his way.'

When Elsie came down to prayers the next
morning she found two letters awaiting her.
One was addressed in Aunt Grizel's well-known
handwriting, the other, to her surprise,
was from David. In the interval between
prayers and breakfast she slipped upstairs to
read it, not observing the awful sternness of
the gaze which Aunt Caroline fixed upon her
as she left the room.

David's letter had been written as soon ashe
reached London ; it contained many loving

words, and expressions of deep regret at
having been unable, through lack of time,
to say all he wished, as well as to inform his
aunt of their engagement. He concluded by-recommending
Elsie, on the whole, to keep
the secret until his return ; but, if she would
rather not do so, he would, on receipt of a
letter from her, at once write to his aunt
himself.

The breakfast-gong had sounded for at
least two minutes before Elsie had finished
the perusal of this, her first love-letter. She
descended hastily, and tried to talk as usual,
but all her remarks were received with chilling
silence. She could not eat, and was fain to
occupy herself with Aunt Grizel's letter, in
order to screen herself from observation. As
they left the table, Mrs. Lindsay, raising her
voice, said, ' Elspeth ! In half an hour's time
I shall wish to see you in my boudoir.'

Elsie felt for the moment as though the
ground were crumbling away under her feet ;
but the half-hour's space, which possibly Mrs.
Lindsay had intended to add to the appalling

nature of the interview, and to increase the
terror of the culprit, gave her time to collect
herself, and to brace her resolution.

Of course it is about David,' she thought.
Aunt Caroline knows, somehow ; but, after
all, I have done nothing wrong, and I need
not be afraid that David will give me up for
Aunt Caroline, or for twenty Aunt Carolines ;
so it would be perfect nonsense to give into
her. I wish she was not angry, all the
same.'

Mrs. Lindsay was writing when Elsie
entered the boudoir, and at first tried to
appear as if she did not see her ; but as the
girl stood waiting, she suddenly laid down
her pen and said : ' From whom was your
letter this morning ?'

From David Lindsay,' said Elsie, turning
scarlet, but unhesitating.

Mrs. Lindsay took up her pen again, and
fixed Elsie with her eye.

'As long as you remain under my roof,
Elspeth, I permit no clandestine correspondence
with young men.'

'Very well, Aunt Caroline, I shall carrion
none.'

And I wish to know what passed between
you and David Lindsay in the garden
yesterday ? '

David asked me to marry him, and I
said I would.'

Mrs. Lindsay started off her seat, her
eyes positively glowing like live coals ; but
as Elsie did not stir, she sat down again,
laid her hand upon her heart, and fetched
several deep breaths. When next she spoke,
it was in a sepulchral tone.

David had no right to make such a proposition,
nor had you to reply to it thus. A
union between you is impossible, and even
had it been otherwise, your conduct in this
affair would have put it out of the question.
To receive addresses in that manner, and in
the garden I I can imagine nothing more
forward and improper.'

It was in the drawing-room,' murmured
Elsie.

Mrs. Lindsay waved her hand, as if to

put her niece's words away from her. ' I am
deeply disappointed in you. Henceforth,
Elspeth, all communication between you and
David is at an end.'

May I not just answer his letter, Aunt
Caroline, and tell him that I mayn't '

Answer his letter ? Most assuredly not.
Had you showed the confidence in me which
I have a right to expect, you would at once
have laid that letter before me.'

As Mrs. Lindsay said this, she gave her
niece a searching look ; but Elsie, adopting
her father's frequent line of conduct, turned
on her an utterly expressionless gaze, and
made no reply.

I myself,' said Aunt Caroline, ' will write
to David Alexander Lindsay.'

Elsie was pleased to hear this, knowing
that David would understand her position,
but maintained her immobility by an effort.

I am totally at a loss to understand you,'
said her aunt, after a pause. ' What do you
propose to yourself ? To attempt to contract
an engagement without a reference to those

who are placed by Providence in the position
of parents and guardians to you ? Have you
no sense of final duty ? of the most sacred
ties '

I have had so little time,' pleaded Elsie.
I meant to tell you '

To tell me ! ' exclaimed Aunt Caroline.
You ought to have consulted me beforehand.
Now put out of your head all idea of any
engagement between you and my nephew,
and make the only reparation in your power,
by writing a full confession to your father.
Sit down at that table  you will find writing
materials.'

But a demon of obstinacy seemed to have
entered into Elsie.

I would rather not write to my father
to-day, please. I wrote lately, and I have
nothing to say to him.'

Nothing to say to him ! !' screamed Aunt
Caroline. ' Do you call this whole tissue of
deceit and disobedience 7iotIiingT

'He would call it nothing,' replied Elsie
in an unmoved tone. * If I were to write

and say that I was engaged to David Lindsay,
that would be a piece of news  papa
likes news  but now there is no need to
write that I am not engaged to David Lindsay
; he would only say he never supposed I
was.'

Mrs. Lindsay was baffled, and did not
know what to make of the girl. She had
never yet had an encounter with any young
woman whom she had not speedily reduced
to tears and submission ; yet here was Elsie,
whom she had always thought particularly
soft and gentle, meeting her reproofs with
cool impertinence, and without moving a
muscle of her face. She signed to her to leave
the room, merely remarking that she had not
expected to find her affection repaid with
heartless ingratitude. But this accusation,
which to Mrs. Lindsay meant little, touched
the girl at once, and brought her back,
repentant, to her side.

*Ah no. Aunt Caroline! not ingratitude.
You have been very good to me, and indeed
I am not ungrateful.' She took her aunt's

hand and kissed it. ' But I promised David,
and I cannot take it back.'

She left the room quickly, and Mrs.
Lindsay sat still, astonished at feeling herself
not nearly so angry as she had wished and
intended to be. She remained a while pondering
over Elsie's extraordinary character,
and considering how she could exert her
authority over that self-willed young person,
without driving her to leave the Elms. At
length, gathering herself up, she went with
the whole story to her husband, but could
get very little satisfaction from him, beyond
the admission that a marriage between the
young people was not to be thought of at
present. When she came to the point of
David's proposal to Elsie, and her answer,
the General began to chuckle, which he continued
to do during the rest of the narrative
in so exasperating a manner, that his wife
at last left him to enjoy his mirth in solitude.
Finally, she proceeded to perform what she
esteemed to be her sacred duty under the
circumstances  that of writing to the relatives

VOL. I. R

of both the parties concerned, as well as to
her nephew himself.

These letters produced, in due course, the
following replies : 

Lady Eleanor wrote that ' she was much
obliged for her dear Caroline's warning, but
begged her not to distress herself by needless
anxiety. Young men would be young men, but
David's heart, she felt sure, was in the right
place. However, she would certainly make
a point of speaking to him most seriously.'

To David, his mother wrote that she was
'exceedingly shocked and distressed by the
account of his conduct which she had received
from Mrs. Lindsay. Of all things in the
world, what she most disliked was a male
flirt, and it gave her great pain to think that
a son of hers was apparently becoming one.
Some day he would find that he had gone
too far, and she wished, in short, that he
would come home at once, and explain what
he meant by causing all his friends, and
especially his anxious and affectionate mother,
so much uneasiness.'

Elsie, in like manner, received a letter
from her father, in which she was desired to
put all that nonsense out of her head. She
was too young to think of marrying for
another ten years. As for this young man,
he (the Laird) knew nothing about him, and
anything he had heard was very little to his
credit. If Elsie could not behave herself
where she was she had better come home,
but she was to do nothing without consulting
her aunt, who seemed to be a very well-intentioned
kind of woman.'

To Mrs. Lindsay, Captain Ross merely
wrote a short, but courteously worded note,
expressive of his great obligation to her for
her care of his daughter, and offering to
relieve her of the charge should she find it
burdensome.

David's letter to Mrs. Lindsay was as
follows : 

My dear Aunt Caroline  Your letter
caused me the most sincere distress, and I
trust you will believe that nothing but the

necessity for my instant departure prevented
me from confiding to you my hopes and
wishes. As it was, I judged it best to wait
until I had a personal interview ; which I still
venture to hope you will not refuse me when
I return to Chipplngham in September ; and
when I have no doubt of being able to explain
to your perfect satisfaction the motives
by which I was actuated. One thing I must
at once, however, strongly urge upon you ;
that, if blame attaches to any one, your censure
must, in justice, fall entirely upon me.
Of my feelings towards my cousin (which
are deeply rooted and unalterable), she was
totally ignorant until the moment before I
left ; and feeling that it was from me that
you would naturally expect first to hear the
avowal of my attachment, I requested her to
postpone informing you of our engagement
until my return. If I have caused distress
by undue precipitation, which the ardour of
my affection could alone excuse, I can only
entreat her forgiveness and yours. As I
have had the misfortune to incur your displeasure,

I cannot, of course, expect you to
receive me at the Elms ; I shall, therefore,
put up at the King's Head at Chippingham,
about the second week of September, which
is the most speedy return I can hope to make,
and shall then entreat you to grant me the
interview which is so vitally necessary for
the elucidation of my past conduct.  With
kindest regards to all, believe me, my dear
aunt, yours affectionately,

David A. Lindsay.'

The receipt of Mrs. Lindsay's letter, followed
in a few days by his mother's, really
caused David serious vexation. He blamed
himself for his impatience, which had been
the means of drawing down his aunt's displeasure
upon Elsie, and he could not bear to
think of her perhaps suffering from its effects,
in the absence of her rightful protector. Yet
he could neither return at once nor write to
Elsie ; the latter course would only bring
fresh trouble upon her. He made his letter
to his aunt as conciliatory as he could, bestowing

much thought upon its composition,
and carefully looking out all the long words
in the dictionary, in case of possible mistakes
in spelling ; and he determined that his next
step before leaving Scotland should be to
endeavour to obtain the consent of Elsie's
father to their engagement. His mother, he
knew, would be averse to it ; he would therefore
send her a few lines to pacify her in the
meantime, and trust to his powers of eloquence
to persuade her when they met. Nothing
doubting of his ability to do so, he wrote off
rapidly : 

My dear Mother  I am sorry any part
of my conduct should have caused you annoyance.
I do not, certainly, deserve to be
called a "flirt," and if Mrs. Lindsay told you
so, all I can say is she must have been misinformed.
I have formed no attachment which
the most anxious parent could fail to approve ;
but more of this when I see you. I cannot
fix an exact date for my return home, as
Ardvoira insists on my staying here another

fortnight at least, after which my movements
are uncertain; but I hope to despatch another
box of grouse shortly. We are having fair
sport, but the hot weather is rather against
us. Love to all.  Your affectionate son,

D. A. Lindsay.'

Sie haven mich equaled,
Geargert beau und bless ;
Die eine mit ihrer Liege,
Die andre mit ihrem Has.'

After the scene in her aunt's boudoir Elsie
was in disgrace for many weary days.

Mrs. Lindsay scarcely spoke to her, and
when she did, addressed her with elaborate
politeness, and never asked her to perform
any of the little services which she had been
accustomed to render. Her entrance was
the signal for cold looks and gloomy silence ;
and even Miss Maynard, whose friend and
champion Elsie had so often proved herself,
was scarcely less chilling in her manner than
Mrs. Lindsay. Elsie justly set this down to
cowardice, but it hurt her nevertheless. She
did not remonstrate ; pride forbade her even

to appear aware of It, she only carried her
head a Httle higher, and was silent. Parkins,
too, was maliciously triumphant ; she, in fact,
had been the original cause of the whole disturbance,
having enjoyed a full view of the
lovers in the garden from her window, and
at once hastened to inform her mistress of
their guilt.

The Laird's letter did not tend to raise
his daughter's spirits, yet she had expected
from him some communication of the kind,
and she thought he might be brought to relent.
Her faith in David was unbounded ;
what he would do she did not know, nor even
try much to conjecture, but he was a wonderful
being, like the Prince in a fairy tale, who
would be sure to come by and by to her
deliverance. But in the meantime her heart
was heavy ; her aunt's displeasure weighed
upon her ; and she began to torment herself
with doubts as to whether she really had not
been forward and improper, and if so, what
David must think of her, now that he had
time calmly to review the circumstances of

the case. She had some thoughts of going
home, but she could not make up her mind
to leave her aunt in anger, so she tried, by
patient attention to her wishes, to win back
her favour.

The General was always kind ; he would
kiss his niece stealthily when he met her in
the passage, and frame pretexts for keeping
her talking to him in the study. He took
great pleasure in a love affair, and would
have been delighted to promote his nephew's
interests, had he dared.

One day towards the end of August, Mrs.
Lindsay received a visit from Mr. Maynard,
who had just returned to Gravehurst, and
who requested to see her alone. He told
her that his health had suffered a good deal
in London, and that he had given up all idea
of returning to his old work. He had now
become convinced that it was right for him
to remain in his parish, and devote himself
to the duties which lay before him there.
He stopped, and looked at Mrs. Lindsay,
who heard him with profound attention, but

as she gave him no word or sign of encouragement,
he became a Httle confused.
He went on to say, in a slightly aggrieved
tone, that he now hoped  he might be
allowed to express a hope  that Mrs.
Lindsay would sanction his addresses to her
niece, as he was now in a position to marry.

Mrs. Lindsay waited till he had quite
finished his speech before she answered :

What you desire, Ernest, is entirely out
of my power to grant you.'

Mr, Maynard was extremely taken aback
by this reply. ' Forgive me  I cannot surely
have misunderstood you  your words when
we parted gave me hope that '

I gave you a warning,' said Mrs. Lindsay,
a warning which you disregarded. And
now '  she spread out her hands  ' what is
the result ? My niece's affections are plighted
to another!'

'Impossible!' cried Ernest, starting, and
turning pale with anger. ' Excuse me, but
surely you cannot mean '

My meaning,' said Mrs. Lindsay, ' is, I

trust, perfectly comprehensible. Elsie's heart
is given to another, and that other, my husband's
very dear grand-nephew ! '

In that case,' said Ernest, rising, ' I
have nothing more to say. Do I understand
that Miss Ross is engaged to your 
grand-nephew ?'

No,' said Mrs. Lindsay, ' you do not.
Sit down again, and endeavour to command
your temper. An engagement between themis
strictly forbidden, being contrary to the
wishes of their parents. It is possible, therefore,
 Ernest, remember I only say possible,
that after a lapse of time you may succeed in
winning her affections, although at first your
addresses will probably be distasteful to her.'

'If Miss Ross prefers another man,' said
Ernest, still in a white heat of indignation,
I have no wish to force her inclinations. I
withdraw my claim, and will now, if you
please, take my leave for the present.'

He bowed stiffly, and cutting short the
moral lesson which was trembling on Mrs.
Lindsay's lips, left the room.

'A shocking temper,' said she to herself,
and what want of respect to me ! A young
man with so Httle control over his passions is
totally unfitted to be a clergyman, and so I
shall certainly tell him when next we meet.
At present, I sadly fear, he is in no state to
be reasoned with.'

She unlocked a drawer, took out David's
letter which she had received about a week
before, and which had occasioned her unusual
indecision of mind. She had been softened
by it, and would have liked to accord him
the interview he desired, forgive him with
pomp, and readmit him to her favour ; but
this could not well be done without also
giving her consent to his marriage. She
had put off showing the letter to the General,
preferring to nurse her indignation against
David a little longer. But now, locking the
drawer again, and saying with firmness, * I
must have no secrets from my husband,' Mrs.
Lindsay marched with an air of martyr-like
resolution to the study and laid the document
before the General, with the remark that

David, dear fellow, seemed to regret his
want of confidence, and had it not been that
poor Eleanor would disapprove, he might,
perhaps, have been permitted to come to the
Elms.

Come ?' said the General, when he had,
with some difficulty, mastered the contents of
his nephew's epistle  *to be sure he must
come. Can't let him go to the inn, eh V

This was exactly the point to which Mrs.
Lindsay wished to bring her husband, having
felt extremely dull ever since David left, and
since she had quarrelled with Elsie.

My own Henry,' said she, 'consider the
danger to which we should expose our young
charge !'

No help for it,' said the General  'must
have him, must have him ! Going to bring
his friend too, you know  eh  hem !'

I am surprised at his selecting the King's
Head,' said Mrs. Lindsay. ' You know, dear,
by what class of persons it is frequented.'

Can't let them go to the inn, you know.
Never do  never do  most inhospitable.'

If you feel it so, dear,' said Mrs. Lindsay,
with resignation, ' of course your wishes are
paramount.'

The good lady now knew no rest or peace
of mind till she could have a reconciliation
with Elsie ; but this, she felt sure, would not
be difficult to accomplish. She watched the
girl one whole morning as she sat sewing in
silence without raising her eyes, or moved
about in a weary, subdued way, but could
not, just then, find any pretext for speaking
to her. While she was watching her niece,
Mrs. Lindsay happened to drop the needle
with which she herself was working ; she
uttered an exclamation of annoyance, for she
had a peculiar dislike to losing anything,
however insignificant.

Dear, dear ! ' she said, ' how very vexatious
! I cannot find my needle, and I set a
particular value upon that needle!'

Miss Maynard was at once upon her
knees to search for the missing article, and
Elsie too crossed the room to see if she could
be of any help.

Go to your seat, Cecilia ! ' said Mrs.
Lindsay, irritably. 'You, with your short
sight, need not attempt to find anything.'

Here it is, Aunt Caroline ! ' cried Elsie.

Mrs. Lindsay took the small pale face
between both her hands and kissed it on
each cheek.

Bless you, my love ! ' said she emphatically.


Elsie felt that by this act she was restored
to favour, and rejoiced ; but to her, who had
borne hostility with such proud composure,
the change was almost too sudden. She
presently made an excuse to retire to her
room, and it was not until some time had
elapsed, and after many applications of warm
water to her eyes, that she ventured to
descend, and cautiously to seat herself, with
her back to the light, and armed with a large
book, to screen herself from observation.
Mrs. Lindsay had, however, the tact to take
no notice ; neither did she allude at all to
David, nor to Elsie's own misdemeanours.
For several days all was peace and serenity ;

Elsie and her aunt usually sat hand in hand,
while Miss Maynard was thrust out, to occupy
a distant seat.

Elsie felt the less sorry for the latter, as
she observed how, like many weak persons,
she was really pleasant in adversity, and
throve none the worse for being trampled
upon.

Elsie was now to have some new acquaintances.
 Mrs. Lindsay informed her one
morning that she had invited her two dear
nieces, Emma and Sophy Dale, to pay her a
visit. * You require companionship, female
companions of your own age, my love,' said
she. ' These two dear girls usually visit me
once a year, and I should wish you to become
friends'

In reply to her questions, Elsie elicited
the facts, that these two girls were members
of a numerous family ; that their father, the
Reverend Charles Dale, was Aunt Caroline's
younger brother ; that he was a curate in a
suburb of London ; and that they were very
poor, which was entirely owing to Mr. Dale's
VOL. I. s

having disregarded the advice of his sister
and best friend, particularly with reference
to his marriage. Some of his elder sons and
daughters were now married, and Emma,
who was twenty, was the eldest at home,
Sophy being two years younger.

As usual, Elsie begged for a personal
description of the two she was to meet.

Emma,' replied Aunt Caroline, 'is not, I
confess, a young person who is very attractive
to me. Still, dear girl, she fulfils her home
duties as well as she is able. But I think,
Elsie, you will love my dear Sophy. She is
a winning young creature,' continued Aunt
Caroline fondly, ' frolicsome as a kitten, and
with such a loving heart ! A little heedless
perhaps  you, my Elsie, must strive to use
your influence for good, whilst they, I trust,
are equally benefiting you. For each of us
has our influence, remember that, my love 
the unconscious influence of example.'

When the two girls arrived, and Elsie
watched the frolicsome Sophy get out of the
carriage, she could not help thinking that she

herself would be more apt to compare her
gambols to those of a young cow than to the
kitten to which Aunt Caroline had likened
her. Sophy did, Indeed, skip gleefully through
the hall, and fell with effusion upon the necks
of her uncle and aunt, followed by her more
sedate sister.

Emma Dale was of middle height, and
unremarkable looking. She had sleek dark
hair, thin lips, and a sallow complexion.

Sophy was bigger and fairer, with light
brown hair, a bright colour, large round 
eyes, and rather large hands and
feet. Partly from contradiction and partly
from a desire to befriend the oppressed, Elsie
had been more Inclined towards the despised
Emma ; she watched her with Interest, and
tried to draw her out. Both girls evidently
stood In great awe of their aunt. When in
her presence Emma would venture upon no
conversation, and only * Yes, aunt '  ' No,
aunt'  ' Thank you, aunt,' dropped nervously
from her lips from time to time. This was
not the road to Mrs. Lindsay's favour ; and

Sophy, who, though probably not less frightened,
was utterly unable to keep from chattering
under any circumstances, had a decided
advantage over her more cautious sister.

Mrs. Lindsay was in reality very kind to
both her nieces, as well as to all her brother s
family, whom she had helped in many ways ;
but she chose to mark the lowered position
into which she considered her brother, by his
own fault, to have sunk, and therefore made
a great show of keeping the girls in their
proper place, imposing upon them many curious
little rules and restrictions. They were
not allowed to sit on arm - chairs or sofas ;
they might not help themselves to jam or
marmalade at breakfast unless it was specially
offered to them by their uncle or aunt ; and,
to train them for home usefulness, they not
only sewed for an hour daily in Parkins' room,
but Howell was instructed to initiate them
into the mysteries of glass and silver cleaning,
folding of table-cloths, etc. (William and
Herbert, being unmarried, were strictly excluded
during these lessons.)

Elsie's position in the house, her fearless
manner towards her aunt, and the indulgence
with which she was treated, was a matter of
great surprise to both the girls. Emma did
her best to conceal her astonishment, but met
Elsie's advances with a dryness and asperity
which drove the latter to take refuge with
the more genial Sophy, who had conceived a
violent affection for her from the moment she
entered the house.

Do be my friend, Elsie,' she said. ' I
should so like to have you for my own particular
friend. Emma has plenty of friends,
besides you will never get on with her. She
said last night that she could not make you
out at all, and she thought you gave yourself
great airs.'

You should not repeat things that people
say,' said Elsie, rather astonished at this
burst of confidence.

Oh, what does it matter ? she would
repeat things that / said in a minute. There
she is  come this way ; let us look as if we
were talking about something secret.'

Why secret ? ' inquired Elsie.

Sophy, in reply, gave her to understand
that Emma's friends were very particular
friends indeed, and that her conferences with
them were supposed to be of a dark and mysterious
nature ; moreover that she, Sophy,
saw no reason why she and Elsie should be
outdone in this respect.

If I had you' she added, * I would not
care. Darling Elsie ! you are far prettier
than any of them  although Emma does say
that your hair '

'Do be quiet!' interrupted Elsie. 'I
don't want to hear Emma's remarks about
me. Tell me about her friends. Are they
not pretty ?'

'They 2lX good' said Sophy, nodding her
head, 'very good. One of them is an invalid.
She never gets off her sofa, except
to get into a bath-chair.'

Poor thing  but is not that very sad ? '
asked Elsie, rather puzzled at the triumphant
tone of Sophy's voice.

Not at all sad ! she would be nothing if

she were not an invalid. She is the Heart of
the House, Hke you read of in books. Everybody
brings their joys and sorrows and difficulties
and things to her. Her name is
Grace Wakefield. Then there is Edith Freeman,
whose home is in shire,  uncle's

relations live quite near it. She is a darling !'

'What is she like ?' asked Elsie, suddenly
roused to interest.

Oh, she is very good too, but younger.
She is a companion to her father, and a comfort
to her mother, and a second mother to
all her little brothers and sisters. And they
live in such a nice, dear old English way,
and have such good pork-pies, and she has
the most lovely golden hair. It was about
hers that Emma said you '

'Hush!' said Elsie, and just then Emma
came up.

Emma !' cried Sophy, 'just come here and
look at Elsie's hair. If it is not as yellow as
Edith Freeman's it is twice as thick. Just
compare it with your own miserable little
knot  and yet you wear a '

My hair is very fine,' said Emma,
reddening, 'extremely fine. Naturally it
goes into very small space. Now I should
think that Elsie's '

Elsie's is every bit as fine as yours,' interrupted
Sophy hotly  *it is like silk.'

Oh, do leave our hairs alone ! ' said
Elsie. ' Come and let us do the flowers.
Hand me that bowl, Sophy,' and Elsie
shook the carnations she had just gathered
out of her basket.

Are you allowed to use that bowl ?' asked
Sophy in an awestruck tone, opening her eyes
wide. * We never were allowed to touch it.'

Elsie is a prime favourite, that is evident,'
said Emma disagreeably.

This was not the first time that Elsie had
heard the Freemans mentioned by Emma
and Sophy, and knowing that they lived
near Alkerton she secretly took an interest
in them, and it must be confessed that the
description of Edith's golden hair and domestic
virtues began to rankle somewhat
unpleasantly in her mind. What right had

David to have a pretty and charming neighbour,
and yet never even to have mentioned
her name to her ?

'Yellower, but not so thick,' Elsie said to
herself meditatively, as she studied the back
of her head with a hand-mirror. ' I wonder,
is she really so very pretty ? most deceitful of
David if she is  but to be sure Sophy talks a
heap of nonsense. However, I shall certainly
have it out with him when he comes.'

The sisters, in spite of frequent bickering,
were upon the whole affectionate ; but
Elsie found it difficult to be a friend of the
one without being the enemy of the other.
However, by being reserved and polite to
Emma, she got on with her pretty well ;
while she treated Sophy, whose devotion to
her continued with unabated ardour, with
more affection than ceremony. The girls
were both eager for excitements of all kinds,
yet led perforce a somewhat monotonous
life ; for their aunt was exceedingly strict
with them as regarded visits and parties of
pleasure.

Young people between whom matrimony
impossible had better not associate,' she
used to say. They were therefore debarred
from many social gatherings in which their
souls would have delighted, and, in the
absence of any excitement from without,
Sophy's romantic affection for Elsie went
through alternate phases of suspicion, jealousy,
hope, despair, and a variety of other
passions. Elsie unconsciously gave her cause
for some of these emotions by her absent
manner at times. She was becoming anxious
about David ; it was now the middle of
September, and nothing had been heard of
him for some weeks ; and as day after day
passed and still the post brought no tidings
of her lover, she began to have misgivings
in spite of herself

END OF VOL. I.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

A New Novel by Mr. Hugh Conway.

LIVING OR DEAD. By Hugh Conway. Author of 'Called
Back,' 'A Family Affair,' etc. Three Vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

THE FALL OF ASGARD : A Story of St. Olaf Day. By

Julian Corbett. Two Vols. Globe 8vo. 12s.

The A the tue inn says :  ' Corbett's story deserves the welcome that is due to a
successful excursion into a comparatively untrodden region  that of mediaeval Norse
history. . . . There is no lack of stirring episodes, heroic fighting and feasting, vivid
pictures of Norwegian scenery and pagan ceremonial. . . . What we chiefly like
about the book is its wholesome freshness.'

The Guardian says :  ' The description of Earl Send's eluding Olaf Fleet, and
again that of sacking of Nidaros and the sea fight of Ness, are wonderfully exciting,
and the conclusion shows great tragic power. It is altogether a remarkable book.'

A New Aovel by Mrs. Oliphant.

A COUNTRY GENTLEMAN AND HIS FAMILY. By

Mrs. Oliphant. Author of ' Sir Tom,' ' The Wizard's Son,' etc.
Three Vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

The Academy says:  'Never has Mrs. Oliphant's workmanship been surer,
steadier, more masterly, than in this latest novel. . . . There is always incident and
progress enough to keep the story moving ; but the charm and value of the book lie
in its character studies, which are really triumphs of creative and interpretative art.'

A New Novel by Miss Yonge.

CHANTRY HOUSE. By Charlotte M. Yonge. Author of
The Heir of Redclyffe. ' Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 12s.

The Morning Post says :  'Miss Yonge has, in her latest novel, struck out a new
path, along which her admirers will follow her with perhaps even greater interest than
heretofore. . . . The story', however, is the best that Miss Yonge has written since
The Heir of Redclyffe, and is a delightful addition to her series of excellent works.'

Baronet THE JESTER. Crovvn 8vo. 4s. 6d.

The Ox-lord Review says:  'This is a strange book, reminding one in many
passages oi John Inelegant and somewhat of Aviyot Bro7(gh, but withal of originality
to stand by itself. . . . The book contains many quaint conceits, passages of considerable
power and pathos, and a quiet humour which well suits the character of the
narrator, a scholar who, with all his learning and repute, still loves his native village
and the friends of his childhood. Altogether, the book is rich with reading, and will
doubtless attract considerable attention. If the author be a new writer, he is to be
congratulated on his maiden effort ; if he be a practised hand disguising himself for
the nonce under the cloud of anonymity, he can be none other than Mr. Storehouse.'

The Academy Sirs:  'This book seems to us to be one of the most excellently
conceived tales we are acquainted with. The story is very simple ; just a love tale
of a poor jester who has been expelled from his lord's castle, a blacksmith's son who
becomes a scholar, and two simple good English maidens.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

A New Novel by F. May-ion Crawford.

A TALE OF A LONELY PARISH. By F. Marion Crawford.
Author of 'Zoroaster,' * Mr. Isaacs,' ' Dr. Claudius,' 'A
Roman Singer.' Two Vols. Globe 8vo. Is.

The Morning Post says :  ' Mr. Crawford's incidents, which are not new, are
treated with such artistic skill as to place them on a different level from others of the
same nature, and they lend unflagging interest to his thrilling tale.'

The British Quarterly Review says : ' Any one who fancies from the title of this
novel that he is to have a quiet sensational story will be pleasantly or unpleasantly
disappointed, as the case may be. Mr. Marion Crawford opens new ground here.
He takes us to a remote corner of Essex, which he calls Billingfield. . . . Motives
are mixed ; things are complicated ; and all finally become tests of character. These
are the feelings that are stirred in reading this powerful bit of work, in which the
dignity and reticence of Mrs. Goddard, her patience and sweet dignity, are declared
unconsciously in the midst of her great misery, while Mr. Juxon's faithfulness and
constancy are refreshing.'

Mr. D. Christie Murray's New Story.

AUNT RACHEL : A Rustic Sentimental Comedy. By D.

Christie Murray. Author of 'Joseph's Coat,' 'First Person
Singular,' etc. Two Vols. Globe 8vo. 12s.
The Athenaeum says:   Aunt Rachel is an excellent piece of work, in some
respects the best he has done. . To do justice to the conversation would require
more quotation than space can be spared for, but it is delightfully humorous.'

The Academy says : ' The most artistic achievement we have yet had from his
pen.'

The Guardian says : ' The story is told in Mr. Christie Murray's best manner ;
our readers will scarcely need to be informed how good that manner is.'

Now Publishing Monthly. imo. 2s. each.

NOVELS AND TALES BY HENRY JAMES.

The Portrait of a Lady. Three Vols. \ Ready.

Frederick Hudson. Two Vols. ready.

The American. Two Vols. Uly-

Washington Square. One Vol. \Atigust.

The Europeans. One Vol. september.

Confidence. One Vol. october.

The Siege of London : Madame de Mauves. One Vol. november.
An International Episode: The Pension Beaurepas : The Point of

View. One Vol. december.

Daisy Miller, a Study : Four Meetings : Longstaff s Marriage : Ben-folio.

One Vol. {Jamiary.

The Madonna of the Future : A Bundle of Letters : The Diary

of a Man of Fifty : Eugene Pickering. One Vol. february.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

Macmillan & Cots Catalogue of Works in
Belles Lettres, inciting Poetry, Fiction, etc.

ADDISON, SELECTIONS FROM. By John Richard Green, Mea.,
LL.D. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4. 6rf.

ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE, THE. By the Author of " John
Halifax, Gentleman." With Illustrations by Mrs. Allingham. New Edition.
Globe 8vo. 41. dd.

<SOP.  SOME OF sop's FABLES. With Modern Instances shown in
Designs by Randolph Caldecott. From New Translations by Alfred
C.A.LDECOTT, M.A. The Engraving by J. D, Cooper. Demy 4to. 7J. 6d.

ALEXANDER (C. F.). the SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR
THE YOUNG. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4. dd.

ALICE Beaumont. a Fairy Tale. By the Author of " John Halifax,
Gentleman." With Illustrations by James Godwin, New Edition, revised.
Globe Svo. 4J. M.

Allingham.  THE BALLAD BOOK. Edited by William Allingham.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4.6?.

Ariel. THE JOURNAL INTIME OF HENRI FREDERIC Ariel.

Translated, with an Introduction and Notes, by Mrs. Humphrey Ward.

Two Vols. Globe Svo. his.
AN ANCIENT CITY, AND OTHER POEMS. By A Native

OF Surrey. Extra Chap. Svo. 6s.
ANDERSON. BALLADS AND SONNETS. By Alexander Anderson

(Surfaces). Extra cap. Svo. 5.
ARIOSTO, PALADIN AND SAPJCEN. Stories from Ariosto. By

H. C. Hollway-Calthrop. With Illustrations by Mrs. Arthur Lemon.

Crown Svo. ts.

ARNOLD.  Works by Matthew Arnold.

THE POETICAL WORKS OF MATTHEW ARNOLD. Vol. L Early
Poems, Narrative Poems, and Sonnets. Vol. II. Lyric and Elegiac
Poems. Vol. III. Dramatic and Later Poems. New and Complete
Edition. Three Vols. Crown Svo. qs. td. each.

SELECTED POEMS OF MATTHEW ARNOLD. With Vignette engraved
by C. H. Jeens. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4J. 6rf.

MEROPS. A Tragedy. Extra cap. Svo. is.

DISCOURSES IN AMERICA. Crown Svo. 4. 6.-/.
ART AT HOME SERIES. Edited by W. J. Loftie, Bea.

A PLEA FOR ART IN THE HOUSE. With especial reference to the
Economy of Collecting Works of Art, and the importance of Taste in Education
and Morals. By W. J. Loftie, Bea. With Illustrations. Fifth Thousand.
Crown Svo. 25. 6d.

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOUSE DECORATION IN PAINTING, Woodwork,
AND FURNITURE. By Rhoda and Agnes Garrett. With
Illustrations. Sixth Thousand. Crown Svo. zs. 6d.

MUSIC IN THE HOUSE. By John Hullah. With Illustrations. Fourth
Thousand. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

a
15,000. 3. 86.

ART AT HOME SKRlRSconfinued.

THE Drawing-room; ITS DECORATIONS AND FURNITURE.

By Mrs. Orrinsmith. Illustrated. Fifth Thousand. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d.
THE DINING-ROOM. Bj' Mrs. Loftie. Illustrated. Fourth Thousand.

Crown 8vo. 2. 6d.
THE BED-ROOM AND BOUDOIR. By Lady Barker. Illustrated.

Fourth Thousand. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
DRESS. By Mrs. Oliphant. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. zs. 6d.
AMATEUR THEATRICALS. By Walter H. Pollock and Lady Pollock.

Illustrated by Kate Greenaway. Crown Bvo-zs. 6d.
NEEDLEWORK. By Elizabeth Cloister, Author of "Art Embroidery."

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
THE MINOR ARTS PORCELAIN PAINTING, WOOD CARVING.

STENCILLING, MODELLING, MOSAIC WORK, &c. By Charles

G. Leland. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
THE LIBRARY. By Andrew Lang. With a Chapter on English lUusiraied

Books, by Austin Dobson. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 3. 6d.
SKETCHING FROM NATURE. By Tristan Ellis. With Illustrations by

H. S. Marks, R.A., and the Author. Crown 8vo. 2. 6d.

ARTEVELDE JAMES & PHILIP VON ARTEVELDE.

By W. J. Ashley, Bea., late Scholar of Balliol College, Oxford. Being the
Lothian Prize Essay for 1882. Crown 8vo. 6s.

ATKINSON. AN ART TOUR TO THE NORTHERN CAPITALS
OF EUROPE. By J. Bennington Atkinson. Bvo. sis.

AUSTIN.  Works by Alfred Austin.
SAVONAROLA. A Tragedy. Crown 8vo. js. 6d.
SOLILOQUIES IN SONG. Crown 8vo. 6s.

AT THE GATE OF THE CONVENT, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. 6s.
A WD RY. THE STORY OF A FELLOW SOLDIER. By Frances Tawdry.
(A Life of Bishop Patterson for the Young.) With a Preface by Charlotte M.
Yonge. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.
BACON'S ESSAYS. Edited by W. Aldis Wright. (Golden Treasury

Series.) imo. 4. 6d.
BAKER.  Works by Sir Samuel Baker, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.G.S., &c., &c.
CAST UP BY THE SEA ; or, THE ADVENTURES OF NED GREY. With

Illustrations by Heard. New Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt. 6s.
TRUE TALES FOR MY GRANDSONS. With Illustrations by W. J. Hennessy.
Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
BALLAD BOOK. CHOICEST ANECDOTES AND SAYINGS.

Edited by William Allingham. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.
BARKER (LADY).  Works by Lady Barker (Lady Broome) :
A YEAR'S HOUSEKEEPING IN SOUTH AFRICA. With Illustrations.

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.
STATION LIFE IN NEW ZEALAND. With Illustrations. Cheaper Edition.

Crown 8vo. 3.- 6d.
Setters TO GUY. Crown 8vo. 5-

THE WHITE RAT, and other Stories. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.
Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Deeply. STORIES FROM THE HISTORY OF ROME. By Mrs.
Beesly. Cap. 8vo. 2s 6d.

Bert. THE FRENCH PRISONERS. A Story for Boys. By Edward
Bert. Crown 8yo. 4s. 6d.

BIKELAS. Louis Lares; or, THE REMINISCENCES OF A
CHIOTE MERCHANT DURING THE GREEK WAR OF Independence.
From the Greek of D. Bikela?. Translated, with Introduction
on the Rise and Development of Modern Greek. Literature, by J. Gennadius,
Charge d' Affaires at the Greek Legation in London. Crown 8vo. s. 6d.

Johnson. SYNNOVE'SOLBAKKEN. Translated from the Norwegian
of BjORNSTjERNE BjoRXsoN, by JuLiE Sumter. Crown 8vo. 6s.

BLACK (W.). THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A PHAETON,
Illustrated. Crown Bvo. 6.y.
A PRINCESS OF THULE. Crown 8vo. Ss.

THE MAID OF KILLEENA, and other Stories. Crown 8vo. 6.
MADCAP VIOLET. Crown 8vo. 6.

GREEN PASTURES AND PICCADILLY. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo.

6s.
MACLEOD OF DARE. With Illustrations. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vc.

6s.
WHITE WINGS. A YACHTING ROMANCE. Cheaper Edition. Crown

8vo. 6s.

THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH : THE FOUR MAC NICOLS: THE PUPIL

OF AURELIUS. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cs.
Shannon BELLS. Crown 8vo. Cheaper Edition. 6s.
Poland THE STORY OF A DAUGHTER. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE WISE WOMEN OF INVERNESS: a Tale, and other Miscellanies
Crown 8vo. 6.y.

JUDITH SHAKESPEARE. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

ADVENTURES IN THULE: Three Stories for Boys. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

WHITE HEATHER. Three Vols. Crown 8/0. 31. 6.

Blackieie.  Works by John Stuart Blackieie, Emeritus Professor of Greek
in the University of Edinburgh : 
THE WISE MEN OF GREECE. In a Series of Dramatic Dialogues. Crown

8vo. 9.
LAY SERMONS. Crown 8vo. 6s.

GOETHE'S Faust. Translated into EniHsh Verse, with Notes and Prellmlnar>-
Remarks. By J. Stuart Blackieie, F.R.S.E. Crown 8vo. 9.

WHAT DOES HISTORY TEACH ? Two Edinburgh Lectures. Crown 8vo
2J. 6d.

BLAKISTON. MODERN SOCIETY IN ITS RELIGIOUS AND
SOCIAL ASPECTS. By Peyton Elakiston, M.D., Fer S. Crown 8vo.

IS.

BRIGHT. Works bv Henry A. Eight.
A YEAR IN A LANCASHIRE GARDEN. Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
2S. 6d. *

THE ENGLISH FLOWER GARDEN. Crown svo. 3. 6d.

a 2

Bromley.  ESSAYS. By the late Gejkge Bridle, M.A., Librarian of

Trinity College, Cambridge. Edited by W. G. Clark,.M.A., late Fellow and

Tutor of Trinity Colleges, Cambridge. A new Edition. Globe 8vo, s.
Contents: Tennyson's Poems; Wordsworth's Poems; Poetry and Criticism;
Carlyle's Life of Sterling; 'esmond": "Westward Ho"; Wilson's " Notes
Ambrosial " ; Comte's "Positive Philosophy," &c.
BROOKE THE FOOL OF QUALITY, or, THE HISTORY OF HENRY,

EARL OF MORELAND. By Henry Brooke. Newly revised, with a

lithographic-il Preface by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A., late Rector of

Eversley. Crown 8vo. 6.
BROOKE (S. A.). Piquet OF THE TUFT: A LOVE DRAMA.

By the Rev. Stafford A. Brooke, M.A. Extra crown 8vo. 6s.
BROWNE (SIR Thomas. Religio MEDICI; Letter to a

Friend, &c., and Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Greenish, M.D.

imo. 4. td. (Golden Treasury Series.)
Ounce. FAIRY TALES, THEIR ORIGIN AND MEANING. With

some Account of the Dwellers in Fairy Land. By J. Thackeray Ounce.

Extra cap. Svo. 3. 6d.
BUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. (Golden Treasury Series.)

imo. 4. 6d. Large Paper Edition. Crown Svo-js. 6d.

BURG ON. POEMS. By John William Burton, B.D., Dean of

Chichester. Extra cap. Svo. /\s. td.

BURKE. LETTERS, TRACTS. AND SPEECHES ON IRISH AFFAIRS.
By Edmund Burke. Arranged and Edited by Matthew Arnold, with a
Preface. Crown Svo. 6y.
BURNETT.  Works by Frances Hodgson Burnett, Author of "That
Lass o' Lowrie's " : 
HAWORTH'S. A Novel. Crown Svo. 65.
LOUISIANA ; and THAT LASS O' LOWRIE's. Two Stories?. Illustrated.

Crown Svo. 6j.
LOUISIANA. Popular Edition. Sewed paper wrapper. Crown Svo. xs.

BURNS. THE POETICAL WORKS OF ROBERT BURNS. Edited from
the best printed and manuscript Authorities, with Glossarial Index and a
Biographical Memoir, by Alexander Smith. With Portrait of Burns, and
Vignette of the Twa Dogs, engraved by Shaw. Two Vols. Cap. Svo. io.y.
COMPLETE WORKS OF. Edited with Memoir by Alexander Smith.
(Globe Edition.) Globe Svo-s. 6d.

BUTLER'S HUDIBR AS. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by
Alfred Milnes, M.A Cap. Svo Part I. 35. 6d. Parts II. and III. 4.6?.

BYRON.  POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew
Arnold. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4. 6d. Large Paper Edition.
Crown Svo. gs

CARLYLE (THOMAS). LETTERS OF THOMAS CARLYLE.
Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. Crown Svo. [In the press.

CARR. PAPERS ON ART. By J. Coins Carr. Extra Crown Svo. 8 . 6d.
CARROLL. Works by Lewis Carroll:

ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND. With Forty-two Illustrations
bv Tenniel. 75th Thousand. Crown Svo, cloth. 6s.

A GERMAN TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. With Tenniel's Illustrations.
Crown Svo, gilt. 6s.

A FRENCH TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. With Ten.xiel's Illustrations.
Crown Svo, gilt. 6s.

AN ITALIAN TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. By T. P. Rossetti.
With Tenniel's Illustrations. Crown Svo. 6s.

CARROLL.  Works by Lewis Carroll continued):
THROUGH THE Looking-glass. AND WHAT ALICE FOUND
THERE. With Fifty Illustrations by Tenniel. Crown 8vo, gilt. 6s. 55th
Thousand.
RHYME? AND REASON? With Sixty-five Illustrations by Arthur B. Frost,
and Nine by Hexky Holiday. Crown 8vo-js.
\* This book is a reprint, with a few additions, of the comic portion of " Phantasmagoria
and other Poems," and of the "Hunting of the Snark." Mr. Frost's
Pictures are new.
ALICE'S ADVENTURES UNDER GROUND. Being a Facsimile of the
Original MS. Book, afterwards developed into " Alice's Adventures in Wonderland."
With Twenty-seven Illustrations by the Author. Crown 8vo.

\ In the press.
A TANGLED TALE. Reprinted from "The Monthly Packet." With Six
Illustrations by Arthur B. Frost. Crown Svo. 45. bd.

CARPENTER (W. B.). truth IN TALE. Addresses chiefly to
Children. By the Right Rev William Bold Carpenter, D.D., Lord
Bishop of Ripon. Crown Svo. 4. 6d.

Castle. A CENTURY OF EMBLEMS. By G. S. Castle. Vicar
of Nettled, Author of " The After Glow," etc. With numerous Illustrations
by Lady Marion Afford, Rear-admiral Lord W. Compton, the Even.
Lord A. Compton, R. Barnes, J. D. Cooper, and the Author. Pott 4to,
cloth elegant, gilt elegant, los. 6d.

CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of the
First Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by E.
Jenkins. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45.6.

CHILDREN'S POETRY. By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."
Extra Cap. Svo. 45. 6d.

CHRISTMAS CAROL (A). Printed in Colours from Original Designs
by Mr. and Mrs. Trevor Crispin, with Illuminated Borders from MSS. of the
T4th and 15th Centuries. Imp. 4to, cloth elegant. Cheaper Edition. 21s.

CHURCH (A. J.). HORTENNYSONIAN, Sive Eclogue e Tennyson
Latine redditus. Cura A. J. Church, A.M. Extra cap. Svo. 6s.

CLIFFORD. ANYHOW STORIES FOR CHILDREN MORAL AND
OTHERWISE. By Mrs.W. K. Clifford. With Illustrations by Dorothy
Tenant. Popular Edition. Crown Svo. Sewed, js. Cloth, is. 6d.

CLOUGH (ARTHUR Hugh. THE POEMS AND PROSE
REMAINS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH. With a Selection from his
Letters, and a Memoir. Edited by his Wife. With Portrait. Two Vols. Crow n

Svo. 2XS.

THE POEMS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH, sometime Fellow of Oriel
College, Oxford. Ninth Edition. Cap. Svo. 6s.

COLLECTS OF THE CHURCH OF' ENGLAND, with a

beautifully Coloured Floral Design to each Collect, and Illuminated Cover.
Crown Svo. 125. Also kept in various styles of morocco.

COLLIER. A PRIMER OF ART. By John Collier. imo. is.

COLQUHOUN. RHYMES AND CHIMES. By F. S. Colquhoun (nee

F. S. Fuller Maitland). Extra cap. Svo. 2s. 6d.
CONWAY.  A FAMILY AFFAIR. By Hugh Conway. Crown Svo. 6s.
CORBETT.  THE FALL OF ASGAKD. By Julian S. Corbett. Two

Vols. Globe Svo. 12s.

CORNWALL, AN UNSENTIMENTAL JOURNEY

THROUGH. By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman." With
numerous Illustrations by C. Napier Hey. Medium 410. 12s. 6d.

COWPER. POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Biographical Introduction

by Rev, W. B.Dlam, B.D. (Globe Edition.) Globe bvo. 3s. 6d.

THE TASK: AN EPISTLE TO JOSEPH HILL. Esq,; TIROCINIUM;

or, a Review of the Schools; and the HISTORY OF JOHN GILPIN.

Edited, with Notes, by William Bentham, B.D. (Globe Readings Edition.)

letters' of' WILLIAM COWPER. Edited, with Introduction, by Rev.

William B.Dlam, B.D., F.S.A., Rector of St. Edmund the King, Lombard

Street. imo. 4J. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.)
SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S POEMS. With an Introduction by Mrs.

Oliphant. imo. 4. 6. (Golden Treasury Series.)

CRANE. THE SIRENS THREE. A Poem. Written and Illustrated
by Walter Crane. Royal 8vo. xos. 6d.

CRANE GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES: A Selection from the Household
Stories. Translated from the German by Lucy Crane, and done into Pictures
by Walter Crane. Crown Bvo. 6*.

CRANE (Lucy. LECTURES ON ART AND THE FORMATION
OF TASTE. By Lucy Crane. With Illustrations by Thomas and Walter
Crane. Crown Bvo. 6s.

CRANE (T. F.) ITALIAN POPULAR TALES. By Thomas Frederick
Crane, A,M., Professor of the Romance Languages in Cornell University.
Demy Bvo. 14J.

CRAWFORD Works by F. Marion Crawford.
MR. ISAACS. A Tale of Modern India. Crown Bvo. 45. 6d.
DOCTOR CLAUDIUS. A True Story. Crown Bvo. 4. 6d.
A ROMAN SINGER. Crown Bvo. is. 6d.
ZOROASTER. Crown Bvo. 6s.
A TALE OF A LONELY PARISH. Two Vols. Globe Bvo 121.

Dawn.  Felicity. A Tale of the German Migrations, a.d. 476. By Felix
Dawn. Translated by M. A. C. E. Crown Bvo. 45. 6d.

DANTE ; AN ESSAY. By the Very Rev. R. W. Church, D.C.L., Dean of

St. Paul's. With a Translation of the "De Monarch." By F. J. Church,

Crown Bvo. 6s.
THE "DE Monarch." Separately. Bvo. as. 6d.
THE PURGATORY. Edited, with Translation and Notes, by A. 'J. Butler,

M.A. Crown Bvo. i2.y. 6d.
THE Paradise. Edited, with a Translation and Notes, by A. J. Butler, M.A.

Crown Bvo. 12s. 6d.

DAY.  Works by the Rev. Al Behari Day:
BENGAL PEASANT LIFE. New Edition. Crown Bvo. 6s.
FOLK-TALES OF BENGAL. Crown Bvo. 4. 6d.

DEMOCRACY An American Novel. Crown Bvo. 45. 6d.

DE MORGAN (Mary. THE NECKLACE OF THE PRINCESS

FIORIMONDE, and other Stories. With 25 Illustrations by Walter Crane.

Extra cap. Bvo. 6s.

*ft* Also an Edition printed by Messrs. R. and R. Clark, on hand-made paper, the

plates, initial letters, head and tail pieces being printed on Indian paper and mounted

in the text. Cap. 4to. The Edition is Limited to one Hundred Copies.

DEUTSCHE Lyric By Dr. Buchheim. (Golden Treasury Series.)

imo. 41. 6d.
DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF PARIS, 1885. An Unconventional

Handbook. With Maps, Plans &c. i8ino. Paper cover, u. Cloth, u. 6d.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF LONDON, 1885. (Fifth

Year.) An Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. imo. Paper
cover, IS. Cloth, is. 6d.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE THAMES, 1885. An

Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. Paper cover, is. Cloth.

IS. 6d.
DICKENS'S CONTINENTAL A.B.C. 'RPilWNh.Y GUIDE.

Published on the first of each Month. imo. is.
DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE UNIVERSITY

OF OXFORD. 1885-1886. i8ino. paper cover, is.
DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE UNIVERSITY

OF CAMBRIDGE. 1885-1886. imo. paper cover, is.
DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE UNIVERSITIES

OF OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE. In One Volume. imo. Cloth. 2S ci.

DILLWYN (E. A.). JILL. By E. A. Dillwyn. Crown Svo. 6f.

DOYLE. THE RETURN OF THE GUARDS, and other Poems. By Sir
Francis Hastings Doyle, late Fellow of All Souls' College, Oxford. Crown
Svo. js. cri.

DRYDEN.  POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited, with a Memoir, by W. D-
Christie, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3- 6-

DUFF (Grant. MISCELLANIES, POLITICAL and LITERARY

By the Right Hon. M. E. Grant Duff. Svo. 10s. 6d.

Embers.  Works by Dr. George Embers.
THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE; a Tale of the Siege of Leyden. Translated

by Clara Bei.l. Crown Svo. 4.. 6d.
ONLY A WORD. Translated by Clara Bell. Crown Svo. 4J. 6d.
Elbow. BETHESDA. By Barbara Elbow. New Edition. Crown Svo.

6s.
EMERSON THE COLLECTED WORKS OF RALPH WALDO
EMERSON. Uniform with the Eversley Edition of Charles Kingsley s
Novels. Globe Svo., price s. each volume.

X. MISCELLANIES. With an Introductory
Essay by John Morley.

2. ESSAYS.

3. POEMS.

4. ENGLISH TRAITS : AND Representative

MEN.

5. CONDUCT OF LIFE : AND

SOCIETY and SOLITUDE.

6. LETTERS: SOCIAL AIMS. &c.

ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE, THE. Profusely

illustrated. Published Monthly. Number I., October, 1883. Price Sixpence.

YEARLY VOLUME, 1884, consisting of 792 closely-printed pages, and containing
423 Woodcut Illustrations of various sizes. Bound in extra cloth, coloured
edges. Royal Svo. 7s. 6d. 1 ,  j

The Volume for 1885. A Handsome Volume, consisting of 840 closely printed
pages, containing nearly 500 Woodcut Illustrations of various sizes, bound in
extra cloth, coloured edges. Royal Svo. %s.
Cloth Covers for binding Volumes, is. 6d. each.

ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE, THE. PROOF
IMPRESSIONS OF ENGRAVINGS ORIGINALLY Published IN
THE ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED. In Portfolio. 21J.

ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS. Edited by John Morley. Crown
8vo. 2J. 6d. each.

JOHNSON. By Leslie Stephen.
SCOTT. By R. H. Sutton.
GIBBON. By J. Cotter Morrison.
SHELLEY. By J. A. Symonds.
HUME. By T. H. Huxley, F.R.S.
GOLDSMITH. By William Black.
DEFOE. ByW. Mint.
BURNS. By Principal Sharp.
SPENSER. By the Very Rev. R. W.

Church, Dean of St. Paul's.
THACKERAY. By Anthony Trollope.


BURKE. By John Morley.
MILTON. By Mark Patterson.
HAWTHORNE. By Henry James
SOUTHEY. By Professor Bowden.
CHAUCER. By A. W. Ward.
COWPER. By Godwin Smith.
BUNYAN. By J. A. Froude.
LOCKE. By Prof. Fowler.
BYRON. By Prof. Nichols.

[Other Volumes to follow.]

ENGLISH STATESMEN.

Under the above title Messrs. Macmillan & Co. beg to announce a series of short
biographies, not designed to be a complete roll of famous Statesmen, but to present in
historic order the lives and work of those leading actors in our affairs who by their
direct influence have left an abiding mark on the policy, the institutions, and the
position of Great Britain among States.

The following list of subjects is the result of careful selection. The great movements
of national history are made to follow one another in a connected course, and
the series is intended to form a continuous narrative of English freedom, order, and
power. The following Volumes are in preparation : 

ELIZABETH

WORDSWORTH. By F. W.H.Myers.
DRYDEN. By George Saintsbury.
LANDOR. By Prof. Sidney Colin.
DE Quinces. By Prof. Mason.
CHARLES LAMB. By Rev. Alfred

Anger.
BENTLEY. By Prof. R. C. Webb.
CHARLES DICKENS. By A. W.

Ward.
GRAY. By Edmund Gosse.
SWIFT. By Leslie Stephen.
STERNE. By H. D. Trail.
MACAULAY. By J. Cotter Morrison.
FIELDING. By Austin Dobson.
SHERIDAN. By Mrs. Oliphant.
ADDISON. By W. J. Courthouse.
BACON. By the Very Rev. R. W.

Church, Dean of St. Paul's.
COLERIDGE. By H. D. Trail.
KEATS. By Sidney Cot.viN.

[/ the press.

WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR.
By Edward A. Freeman, D.C.L.,
LL.D. [In the press.

HENRY II. By Mrs. J. R. Green.

EDWARD I. By Frederick

Pollock.
HENRY VII. By J. Cotter

Morrison.
WOLSEY. By Prof. M-Creighton.

By the Very Rev. the

Dean of St. Paul's.
OLIVER CROMWELL. ByFREBERic

Harrison.
WILLIAM III. By H. D. Trail.
WALPOLE. By Leslie Stephen.
CHATHAM. By J. A. Froude.
PITT. By John Morley.
PEEL. By J. R. Thursfield.

EVANS.'  Works by Sebastian Evans.
BROTHER FABIAN'S MANUSCRIPT, AND OTHER POEMS. Cap

8vo. 6s.
IN THE STUDIO: A DECADE OF POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 5*.

FAIRY BOOK. By the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman." (Golden
Treasury Series.) imo. 4. 6d,

FA WCETT. TALES IN POLITICAL ECONOMY. By Millicent
G. Facets, Author of " Political Economy for Beginners." Globe 8vo. 3.

FAY. MUSIC STUDY IN GERMANY. From the Home Correspondence of
Amy Fav, with a Preface by Sir GEORGE GROVE, D.C.L., Director of the
Royal College of Music. Crown 8vo. 4. 6d.

FLEMING.  Works by George Fleming.

VESTIGIA. New Edition. Globe 8vo. 2s.

A NILE NOVEL. New Edition. Globe Svo. 2s.

MIRAGE. A NoveL New Edition. Globe Svo. 2s.

THE HEAD OF MEDUSA. New Edition. Globe Svo. 2s.
FO'C'S'LE YARNS. Including "BETSY LEE" AND OTHER
POEMS. Crown Svo. yJ- 6.

FORBES. SOUVENIRS OF SOME CONTINENTS, By Archibald
Forbes, LL.D. Crown Svo. 6s.

FRASER-tatler. SONGS IN MINOR KEYS. By C. C. Fraser-tatler
(Mrs. Edward Liddell). Second Edition. imo. 6s.

FREEMAN. Works by E. A. Freeman, D.C.L., LL.D., Regius Professor cf

Modern History in the University of Oxford.
HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL SKETCHES ; CHIEFLY

ITALIAN. With Illustrations by the Author. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
SUBJECT AND NEIGHBOUR LANDS OF VENICE. Beirtg a Companion

Volume to "Historical and Architectural Sketches." With Illustrations. Crown

Svo. los. 6d.
ENGLISH TOWNS AND DISTRICTS. With Illustrations. Svo. 14.
GARNETT.  IDYLLS AND EPIGRAMS. Chiefly from the Greek

Anthology. By Richard Garnett. Cap. Svo. 2s. 6d.

GEDDES. FLOSCULI Graeca Borealis SIVE Apologia
GRAECA ABERDONENSIS. Context GULIELMUS D. GEDDES.
Crown Svo. 6.

GILMORE. STORM WARRIORS; or, Life-boat WORK ON THE
GOODWIN SANDS. By the Rev. John Gilmore, M.A., Vicar of St.
Luke's, Lower Wormwood, Surrey, Author of "The Ramsgate Life-boat," in
Macmillan's Magazine." Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

GLOBE LIBRARY. Globe Svo. Cloth. 3 j. 6. each.
SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited by W. G. Clark, M.A.,

and W. Alors Wright, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge, Editors of the

Cambridge Shakespeare." With Glossary.
SPENSER'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited from the Original Editions and

Manuscripts, by R. Morris, with a Memoir by J. W. Hales, M.A. With

Glossary.
SIR WALTER SCOTT'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited with a Biographical

and Critical Memoir by Francis Turner Palgrave, and copious Notes.
COMPLETE WORKS OF ROBERT BURNS. THE POEMS, SONGS.

AND LETTERS, edited from the best Printed and Manuscript Authorities.

With Glossarial Index, Notes, and a Biographical Memoir by Alexander

Smith.
ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited after the Original Editions, with a Biographical

Introduction by Henry Kingsley.
GOLDSMITH'S MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. Edited, with Biographical

Introduction by Professor Mason.

GLOBE LIBRARY continued

POPE'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Notes and Introductory Memoir,

by Adolphus William Ward, M.A., Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cambridge,

and Professor of History in Owens College, Manchester.
DRYDEN'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with a Memoir, Revised Text,

and Notes, by W. D. Christie, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge.
COWPER'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, wLthl Notes and Biographical

Introduction, by Rev. William Bentham, B.D.
MORTE Arthur. SIR THOMAS MALORY'S BOOK OF KING

ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE.

The original Edition of Caxton, revised for Modern Use. With an Introduction

by Sir Edward Strachey, Bart.
THE WORKS OF VIRGIL. Rendered into English Prose, with Introductions,

Notes, Running Analysis, and an Index. By James Lonsdale. M.A.,

late Fellow and Tutor of Balliol College, Oxford, and Classical Professor in

King's College, London ; and Samuel Lee, M.A., Latin Lecturer at University

College, London.
THE WORKS OF HORACE. Rendered into English Prose, with Introductions.

Running Analysis, Notes and Index. By James Lonsdale, M.A., and

Samuel Lee, M.A.
MILTON'S POETICAL WORKS, Edited, with Introductions, by Professor

Mason.

GOETHE'S REYNARD THE FOX. Translated into English by
A. Douglas Aisle. Crown 8vo. [/ the press.

GOETHE'S FAUST, Translated into English Verse, with Notes and

Preliminary Remarks, by John Stuart Blackieie, F.R.S.E., Emeritus Professor
of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo. Q.r.

GOLDEN'TREASURY SERIES. Uniformly printed in imo.,

with Vignette Titles by J. E. Millais, R.A., T. Woollen, W. Holman Hunt,

Sir Noel Paton, Arthur Hughes, &c. Engraved on Steel by Jeens,

Start, and others. Bound in extra cloth. 4'. 6d. each volume.
THE GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS AND LYRICAL

POEMS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Selected and arranged, with

Notes, by Francis Turner Palgrave.
THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND FROM THE BEST POETS. Selected

and arranged by Coventry Patmore.
THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best English Hymn Writers. Selected

and arranged by Earl Melbourne. A New and Enlarged Edition.
THE FAIRY BOOK ; the Best Popular Fairy Stories. Selected and rendered

anew by the"'Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."
THE BALLAD BOOK, A Selection of the Choicest British Ballads Edited

by William Allingham.
THE JEST BOOK. The Choicest .Anecdotes and Sayings. Selected and

arranged by Mark Lemon.
BACON'S ESSAYS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND EVIL. With Notes

and Glossarial Index. By W. Aldis Wright, M.A.
THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS from this World to that which is to come. By

John Bunyan. Large Paper Edition. Crown Svo. qs. 6d.
THE SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR THE YOUNG. Selected and

arranged by C. F. Alexander.
A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS of All Times and All Countries gathered and

narrated anew. By the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe."
THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited from the Original

Edition by J. W. Clark, M.A Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO. Translated into English, with Notes, by J.

LI. Davies, Illa. and D. J. Vaughan, Mea.

GOLDEN TREASURY SERlRSconimted.
THE SONG BOOK. Words and Tunes from the best Poets and Musicians.

Selected and arranged by John Hullah, late Professor of Vocal Music in

King's College, London.
LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by Gustave

Mason, French Master in Harrow School.
TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By An Old Boy.
A BOOK OF WORTHIES. Gathered from the Old Histories and written anew

by the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." With Vignette.
GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. New Edition.
THE CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of the First

Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by Edward

Jenkins, Author of " Gin's Baby," &c.
SCOTTISH SONG. A Selection of the Choicest Lyrics of Scotland. Compiled

and arranged, with brief Notes, by Mary Carlyle Aitken.
DEUTSCHE Lyric. The Golden Treasury of the best German Lyrical

Poems, selected and arranged with Notes and Literary Introduction. By Dr.

BUCHHEI.M.

ROBERT HERRICK. SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL POEMS OF.

Arranged with Notes by Francis Turner Palgrave.

POEMS OF PLACES. Edited by H. W. Longfellow. England and Wales.

Two Vols.
MATTHEW ARNOLD'S SELECTED POEMS.
THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS IN SPAIN. By

Charlotte M. Yonge. With a Vignette by Holman Hunt.
LAMB'S TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. Edited, with Preface, by the Rev.

Alfred Aixger, Reader at the Temple.
WORDSWORTH'S SELECT POEMS. Chosen and Edited, with Preface, by

Matthew Arnold. Also a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.
SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited, with Notes, by

Francis Turner Palgrave.

SELECTIONS FROM ADDISON. Edited by John Richard Green.
SELECTIONS FROM SHELLEY. Edited by Stopforu A. Brooke. Also

Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. 12s. 6d.
POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew Arnold. Also

a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.
SIR THOMAS BROWNE'S RELIGIO MEDICI ; Letter to a Friend, &c., and

Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Greenish, M.D., Oxon.
Mohammed, THE SPEECHES AND Table-talk OF THE

PROPHET. Chosen and Translated by Stanley Lane-Poole.
WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR, Selections from the Writings of. Arranged and

Edited by Professor Sidney Colin.

COWPER-SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S POEMS. With an Introduction
by Mrs. Oliphant.

COWPER. LETTERS of William COWPER. Edited, with Introduction,

by the Rev. W. Bentham, B.D.
KEATS. THE POETICAL WORKS OF JOHN KEATS. Reprinted from

the Original Editions, with Notes by Francis Turner Palgrave. Largo

Paper Edition. Bvo. gs.
LYRICAL POEMS. By Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Poet Laureate. Selected

and Annotated by Francis Turner Palgrave. Large Pskper Edition. Bvo.

gs.
IN MEMORIAM. By Ai fred. Lord Tennyson, Poet Laureate. Large Paper

Edition. 8vo. gs.

GOLDSMITH. MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. Edited with Biographical
Introduction, by Professor Mason. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 35. ci.

VICAR OF WAKEFIELD, with a Memoir of Goldsmith by

Professor Mason. (Globe Readings Edition.) Globe 8vo. is.

GONE TO TEXAS. LETTERS FROM OUR BOYS. Edited, with
Preface, by Thomas Hughes, Q.C. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.

GRAY. THE WORKS OF THOMAS GRAY. Edited by Edmund Gosse,
Clark Lecturer on English Literature in the University of Cambridge. In Four
Vols. Globe 8vo. 20*.

Vol. P L POEMS, JOURNALS, and ESSAYS.

Vol. II. LETTERS.

Vol. III. LETTERS.

Vol. Ive-NOTES ON ARISTOPHANES : and PLATO.

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES, a Selection from the Household Stories.
Translated from the German by Lucy Crane, and done into Pictures by
Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. dy.

GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. (Golden Treasury Series.)
1 8 mo. 4 J. dd.

Hamilton. Works by P. G. Hamilton.

ETCHING AND ETCHERS. Illustrated with Forty-eight new Etchings.

Third Edition, revised. Columbine 8vo.
A PAINTER'S CAMP IN THE HIGHLANDS. Second and Cheaper Edition.

One Vol. Extra cap. Bvo. ()S.
THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE. With Portrait of Leonardo da Vinci, etched

by Leopold Flaming. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. los. (id.

THOUGHTS ABOUT ART. New Edition, Revised, with Notes an't Introduction.
Crown Bvo. Zs. 6d.

HUMAN INTERCOURSE. Third Thousand. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6J.

HARDY. BUT YET A WOMAN. A Novel. By Arthur SnERBURNii
Hardy. Crown 8vo. 45. 6d,

HARRISON (F.). THE CHOICE OF BOOKS; and other Literary
Pieces. By Frederic Harrison. Globe Bvo. 6s.

HAWTHORNE (Julian. the LAUGHING MILL ; and other
Stories. By Julian Hawthorne, Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

HEINE, SELECTIONS FROM THE POETICAL WORKS OF Heinrich
HEINE. Translated into English. Crown Bvo. . 6d.
A TRIP TO THE BROCKEN. By Heinrich Heine. Translated by R.

McLiNTOCK. Crown 8vo. 3. 6d.
IDEAS "Such LE GRAND" OF THE REISEBILDER OF Heinrich
HEINE, 1826. A Translation by I. B. Crown Bvo. 3s. 6d.

HERRICK (Robert. SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL
POEMS OF. Arranged with Notes by F. T, Palgrave. (Golden Treasury
Series.) imo. s. 6d.

HILL.  Works by OcTAViA Hill.
HOMES OF THE LONDON POOR. Popular Edition. Crown Bvo, sewed, is,
OUR COMMON LAND. Consisting of Articles on OPEN SPACES : and on
WISE CHARITY. Extra cap. 8vj. 3*. 6d.

HOLLWAY-CALTHROP. PALADIN AND SARACEN: Stories
from Ariosto. By H. C. Hollway-Calthrop. With Illustrations, by Mrs.
Arthur Lemon, engraved by O. Labour. Crown 8vo. 6j.

HOLMES. ILLUSTRATED POEMS OF OLIVER WENDELL
HOLMES. With numerous Illustrations. 4to. i6s.

HOMER. THE ODYSSEY OF HOMER DONE INTO ENGLISH
PROSE. By S. H. Butcher, M.A., Professor of Greek in the University of
Edinburgh ; sometime Fellow and Protector of University College, Oxford, late
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; and A. Lang, M.A., late Fellow of
Merton College, Oxford. With Steel Vignette. Fifth Edition. Revised and
Corrected. With new Introduction and Additional Notes. Crown 8vo.
io.r. 6d.
THE ILIAD OF HOMER. Translated into English Prose. By Andrew Lang,
M.A., Walter Leaf, M.A., and Ernest Myers, M.A. Crown 8vo. 125. 6d.

HOOPER AND PHILLIPS. a MANUAL OF MARKS ON Pottery
AND PORCELAIN. A Dictionary of Easy Reference. By W. H.
Hooper and W. C. Phillips. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition,
revised. imo. 4s. 6d.

HOPE. NOTES AND THOUGHTS ON GARDENS AND Woodlands.
Written chiefly for Amateurs. By the late Frances Jane Hope,
Hardie Lodge, near Edinburgh. Edited by Anne J. Hope Johnston. Crown
Bvo. 6s.

HOPKINS. Works by Ellice Hopkins.
ROSE TURQUAND. A Novel. Cheaper Edition. Crown Bvo. 6s.
AUTUMN SWALLOWS : a Book of Lyrics. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.

HOPPUS. A GREAT TREASON: A Story of the War of Independence.
2 vols. Crown 8vo. horace.

WORD FOR WORD FROM HORACE. The Odes literally
versified. By W. T. Thornton, CB. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.
WORKS OF. Rendered into English Prose by James Lonsdale, M.A. and
Samuel Lee, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. ss. 6d

HULL AH. HANNAH Tare. A Story for Girls. By M. E. Hullah,
Author of " Mr. Greysmith." With Illustrations. New Edition. Globe Svo.
2S. 6d.

HUNT. TALKS ABOUT ART. By William Hunt. With a Letter by
Sir J. E. MiLLAis, Bart., R.A. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 3. 6d.

IRVING.  Works by Washington Irving.
OLD CHRISTMAS. From the Sketch Book. With upwards of 100 Illustrations
by Randolph Caldecott, engraved by J. D. Cooper. New Edition.
Crown Svo, cloth elegant. 65'.

People's Sixpenny Edition. Illustrated. Medium 4to. 6d.
Drawbridge HALL. With 120 Illustrations by R. Caldecott. New
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth gilt. 6s.

People's sixpenny Edition. Illustrated. Medium 4to. 6d.

JACKSON. Ramon. A Story. By Helen Jackson (H. H.), Author
of " Verses," "Bits of Travel." Two Vols. Globe Svo. 12s.

JAMES. Works by Henry James.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

WASHINGTON SQUARE ; THE PENSION BEAUREPAS ; A BUNDLE
OF LETTERS. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE EUROPEANS A Novel. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE AMERICAN. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

DAISY MILLER: AN INTERNATIONAL EPISODE: FOUR Meetings.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

RODERICK HUDSON. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE MADONNA OF THE FUTURE; and other Tales. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FRENCH POETS AND NOVELISTS. New Edition. Crown 8vo. s. 6d.

PORTRAITS OF PLACES. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

TALES OF THREE CITIES. Crown 8vo. 4. 6d.

STORIES REVIVED. Two Series. Crown 8vo. 6s. each.

THE BOSTONIANS. Three Vols. Crown 8vo. xs. 6d.
JAMES NOVELS AND TALES. By HENRY JAMES.

In imo, Paper covers, is. each vaccine. Cloth binding, is. 6d. each volume, for
complete in case, 21).

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

3 vols.

RODERICK HUDSON. 2 vols.

THE AMERICAN. 2 vols.

WASHINGTON SQUARE, i vol.

THE EUROPEANS, i vol.

CONFIDENCE. 1 vol.

THE SIEGE OF LONDON: Madame
DE Males. I vol.

AN INTERNATIONAL EPISODE:

THE PENSION BEAUREPAS:
THE POINT OF VIEW, i vol.

DAISY MILLER, A STUDY: FOUR
MEETINGS : LONGSTAFF's

MARRIAGE ; BENVOLIO. i vol.

THE MADONNA OF THE
FUTURE: A BUNDLE OF
LETTERS : THE DIARY OF A
MAN OF FIFTY: EUGENE
PICKERING.

JOUBERT. Senses OF JOUEERT. Selected and Translated with the
Original French appended, by Henry Attwell, Knight of the Order of the
Oak Crown. Crown 8vo. tes.

KEARY. A MEMOIR OF ANNIE KEARY. By her Sister. With a
Portrait. Third Thousand. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 45. 6d.

KEARY (A.).  Works by Annie KEARY.
CASTLE DALY; THE STORY OF AN IRISH HOME THIRTY YEARS

AGO. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
JANET'S HOME. New Edition. Globe 8vo. zs.
CLEMENCY Franklin. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
Sudbury. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
A YORK AND A LANCASTER ROSE. Crown 8vo. 6s.
A DOUBTING HEART. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
THE HEROES OF ASGARD. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.
KEARY (E.). Works by Eliza KEARY.
THE MAGIC VALLEY; or, PATIENT ANTOINE. With Illustrations by

E. V. B. Globe 8vo. gilt. 4. 6d.
M Emir OF ANNIE KEARY. With a Portrait. New Edition. Crown 8vo.
4. 6d.

KEATS. THE POETICAL WORKS OF JOHN KEATS. Reprinted
from the Original Editions, with Notes by Francis T. Pater a ve, imo.
4. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series). Large Paper Edition. 8vo. 9s.

KINGSLEY'S (CHARLES) NOVELS AND POEMS.

Beverley EDITION.
WESTWARD HO ! 2 Vol. Globe 8vo. los.
TWO YEARS AGO. 2 Vol;. Globe 8 vo. los.
HYPATIA. 2 Vols. Globe 8vo. jos.
YEAST. I Vol. Globe Svo. 5s.
ALTON LOCKE. 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.
HEREWARD THE WAKE. 2 Vols. Globe Svo. los.
"poems. Two Vols. Globe Svo. lo.

KINGSLEY.  Works by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A., late Rector
of Eversley, and Canon of Westminster. Collected Edition. 6s each.

POEMS ; including the Saint's Tragedy, Andromeda, Songs, Ballads, &c. Complete
Collected Edition.

YEAST ; a Problem.

ALTON LOCKE. New Edition. With a Prefatory Memoir by Thomas
Hughes, Q.C, and Portrait of the Author.

HYPATIA ; or, NEW FOES WITH AN OLD FACE. '

GLAUCUS ; or, THE WONDERS OF THE SEA-SHORE. With Coloured
Illustrations.

WESTWARD HO ! or, THE VOYAGES AND ADVENTURES OF SIR
Amy's LEIGH.

THE HEROES ; or, GREEK FAIRY TALES FOR MY CHILDREN. With
Illustrations.

TWO YEARS AGO.

THE WATER BABIES. A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. With Illustrations by
Sir Noel Paton, R.S.A., and P. Skelton.

THE ROMAN AND THE TEUTON. A Series of Lectures delivered before
the University of Cambridge. With Preface by Professor Max Miller.

HEREWARD THE WAKE LAST OF THE ENGLISH.

THE HERMITS.

MADAM HOW AND LADY WHY; or, FIRST LESSONS IN EARTH-lore
FOR CHILDREN.

AT LAST ; A CHRISTMAS IN THE WEST INDIES. Illustrated.

PROSE IDYLLS. NEW AND OLD.

PL.\YS AND PURITANS ; and other HISTORICAL ESSAYS. With Portrait
of Sir Walter Raleigh.

HISTORICAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

SANITARY AND SOCIAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

SCIENTIFIC LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

LITERARY AND GENERAL LECTURES.

HEALTH AND EDUCATION. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
SELECTIONS FROM SOME OF THE WRITINGS OF THE REV.

CHARLES KINGSLEY. Crown Svo. 6s.
OUT OF THE DEEP. Words for the Sorrowful, from the writings of Charles

Kingsley. Extra cap. Svo. 3s. 6d.
DAILY THOUGHTS SELECTED FROM THE WRITINGS OF

CHARLES KINGSLEY. By His Wife. Crown Svo. 6s.
THE WATER BABIES: A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. With One Hundred

Illustrations by LiNLEY Samco'Jr.n'E. Cap. 4to. 12s. 6d.

KINGSLEY (H.). TALES OF OLD TRAVEL. Re-narrated by Henry
Kingsley. With Eight full-page Illustrations by Heard. New Edition.
Crown 8vo. cloth, extra gilt. 5s.

KNOX. SONGS OF CONSOLATION. By Pisa Craig Knox. Extra cap.

8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges. 4. 6d.

LAMB.  Works by Charles Lamb.

TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. Edited, with Preface, by Alfred Anger,
M.A. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4. 6d. Globe Readings Edition for
Schools. Globe 8vo, 2s.

ESSAYS OF ELIA. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Alfred Anger,
M.A. Globe 8vo. 5s.

POEMS, PLAYS, AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS, &c. Edited by Alfred
Ainger, M.A. Globe 8vo 5s.

MRS. LEICESTER'S SCHOOL; The Adventures of Ulysses ; and other Essays.
Edited by the Rev. Alfred Ainger, M.A. Globe Bvo. 5*.

LANDOR (WALTER Savage. SELECTIONS FROM THE
WRITINGS OF WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR. Arranged and Edited by
Professor Sidney Colin. With Portrait. imo. 4.y. 6d. (Golden Treasury
Series.)

LAWLESS. A MILLIONAIRE'S COUSIN. By the Hon. Emily
Lawless, Author of "A Chelsea Householder." Crown 8vo. 6s.

LECTURES ON ART. Delivered in Support of the Society for
Protection of Ancient Buildings. By Read. Stuart Poole, Professor W.
B. Richmond, E. J. Pointer, R.A., J, T. Micklethwaite, and William
Morris. Crown Bvo. 4*. 6d.

LEMON (Mark. .THE JEST BOOK. The Choicest Anecdotes and
Sayings. Selected and Arranged by Mark Lemon. (Golden Treasury Series.)
I Arno. 45. 6d.

LITTLE PILGRIM, A, IN THE UNSEEN. Crown 8vo. 2s. td.

LITTLE ESTELLA, and other FAIRY TALES FOR THE YOUNG.
imo, cloth extra. 2J 6d.

LITTLE SUNSHINE'S HOLIDAY. By the Author of "John
Halifax, Gentleman." With Illustrations. Globe Bvo. 2s. 6d.

Borne. GUIDO AND Lisa : A TALE OF THE RIVIERA. A Poem.
By the Marquis of Borne. Third Edition. Small 410, cloth elegant. With
Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

LOWELL. COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS of James Russell Lowell.
With Portrait, engraved by Jeens. imo, cloth extra. 4J. 6d.

MACLAREN. THE FAIRY FAMILY. A Series of Ballads and Metrical
Tales illustrating the Fairy Mythology of Europe. By Archibald Maclaren.
With Frontispiece, Illustrated Title, and Vignette. Crown Bvo, gilt. $s.

MACMILLAN. MEMOIR of DANIEL MACMILLAN. By Thomas
Hughes, Q.C. With a Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens, from a
Painting by Lower Dickinson. Fifth Thousand. Crown Bvo. 4s. td.
Popular Edition, Paper Covers, is.

>7

MACMILLAN'S BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.

cloth elegant. Illustrated, 2j. 6d. each :

In Globe 8vo,

WANDERING WILLIE. By the

Author of "Conrad the Squirrel."

With a Frontispiece by Sir Noel

Paton.
THE WHITE RAT, AND OTHER

STORIES. By Lady Barker.

With Illustrations by W. 'J. Hen

Ness.

Pansies's FLOUR BIN. By the

Author of "When I was a Little

Girl." With illustrations Adrian

Stokes.
Silly AND Only ; or, A HoHday

among the Mountains. By Mrs.

T. H. Ward. With Illustrations by

Mrs. Alma Tadema.
THE HEROES OF ASGARD; Tales

from Scandinavian Mythology. By

A. and E. Weary.
WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL.

By the Author of "St. Slave's,"

Nine Years Old," &c.
NINE YEARS OLD. By the Author

of " When I was a Little Girl*'

By Mrs. Wordsworth.

With Illustrations by Walter Cr.\ne. Globe svo. 2S. 6d. each.
'CARROTS" ; JUST A LI'lTLE I GRANDMOTHER DEAR

THE STORY OF A FELLOW
SOLDIER. By Frances Tawdry.
(A Life of Bishop Paterson fcr the
Young). With Preface by Charlotte
M. Yonge.

AGNES HOPETi (UN'S SCHOOLS
AND HOLIDAYS. By Mrs. Olim

AND HER FRIENDS. A

Story for Girls.
THE RUNAWAY. By the Author

of "Mrs. Jemingham's Journal."
OUR YEAR. A Child's Book in

Prose and Verse. By the Author of

"John Halifax, Gentleman."
LITTLE SUNSHINE'S Holiday.

By the Author of "John

Halifax, Gentleman."
A STOREHOUSE OF STORIES.

Edited by Charlotte M. Yonge,

Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe."

Two Vols.
HANNAH Tare. By Mary E.

Hull Ash. With Illustrations by W,

J. Hennessy.

BOY.

A CHRISTMAS CHILD.
THE TAPESTRY ROOM.

THE CUCKOO CLOCK.
TELL ME A STORY.
ROSY.

MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE. Published Monthly. Price w. Vol;.
I. to LII. are now ready. Medium Svo. 75. 6d. each.

MACMILLAN'S POPULAR Novels in Crown 8vo, cloth.
Price dr. each Volume : 

By William Black.

A PRINCESS OF THULE

MADCAP VIOLET.

THE MAID OF KILLEENA ; and
other Tales.

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES
OF A PHAETON. Illustrated.

GREEN PASTURES AND Piccadilly.


MACLEOD OF DARE. Illustrated.

WHITE WINGS. A Yachting Romance.


THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH :
THE FOUR MAC NICOLS:
THE PUPIL OF AURELIUS.

Shannon BELLS.

Poland.

JUDITH SHAKESPEARE.

THE WISE WOMEN OF Inverness;
A Tale; and other Miscellanies.


By Charles Kingsley.

TWO YEARS AGO. 1 HYPATIA.

WESTWARD HO ! " YEAST.

ALTON LOCKE. With Portrait. I HEREWARD THE WAKE.

BELLES LETTRES.

MACMILLAN'S POPULAR NOVELS r//mW.

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."
THE FAMILY | AGATHA'S HUSBAND.

THE HEAD OF

Illustrated.

MY MOTHER AND I. Illustrated.
THE Gillies. Illustrated.

AGATHA'S

treated.
OLIVE. Illustrated.
MISS TOMMY. A

Romance. Illustrated.

Illus.

Mediaeval

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

THE HEIR OF Radcliffe.

With Illustrations.
Heartless. With Illustrations.
THE DAISY CHAIN. With Illustrations.

THE TRIAL: More Links in the

Daisy Chain. With Illustrations.
HOPES AND FEARS. Illustrated.
DYNEVOR TERRACE. With

Illustrations.
MY YOUNG Allies. Illustrated.
THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE.

Two Vols. Illustrated.
CLEVER WOMAN OF THE

FAMILY. Illustrated.
THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER.

Illustrated.

THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S
NEST. Illustrated.

THE CAGED LION. Illustrated.

THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS.
Illustrated.

LADY HESTER, and THE dangers
PAPERS. Illustrated.

THE THREE BRIDES. Illustrated.


MAGNUM BONUM. Illustrated.

LOVE AND LIFE. Illustrated.

UNKNOWN TO HISTORY-illustrated.


STRAY PEARLS. Illustrated.

THE ARMOURER'S Prentices.
Illustrated.

HAWORTH'S,

"LOUISIANA'

Illustrated.

By Frances H. Burnett.

and "THAT LASS C Lowliest'* Two Stories.

By Annie Weary.

CASTLE DALY.

Sudbury.

CLEMENCY Franklin.

A YORK AND A LANCASTER

ROSE
A DOUBTING HEART.

By Henry James.

THE EUROPEANS.

THE AMERICAN.

DAISY MILLER: AN International
EPISODE : FOUR
MEETINGS.

RODERICK HUDSON.

THE

I THE MADONNA OF
FUTURE, and other Tales.

WASHINGTON SQUARE: THE
PENSION BEAUREPAS : A
BUNDLE OF LETTERS.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

STORIES REVIVED. Two Series.
6s. each.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

HESTER. 

THE WIZARD S SON.

A BELEAGUERED CITY.
SIR TOM.



MACMILLAN'S POPULAR N Owls conitmeed.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS.
TOM BROWN AT OXFORD.
THE FOOL OF QUALITY. By

H. Brooke.
REALM AH. By the Author of

' Friends in Council."
ROSE TURQUAND. By Ellice

Hopkins.
OLD SIR DOUGLAS. By the

Hon. Mrs. Norton.
A FAMILY AFFAIR. By Hugh

Conway.
JOHN Inelegant. A Romance.

By J. H. Storehouse.
THE LAUGHING MILL; and other

BENGAL PEASANT LIFE. By

Al Behari Day.
VIRGIN SOIL. By Tourgenief.
VIDA. The Study of a Girl. By

Amy Dunsmuir.
MISS Brethren. By Mrs.

Humphrey Ward.
JILL. By E. A. Dillwyn.
BETHESDA. By Barbara Elbow
A MILLIONAIRE'S COUSIN. By

the Hon. Emily Lawless.
MITCHELHURST PLACE. By

Margaret Veley.
THE STORY OF CATHERINE.

By AsHFORD Owen.
ZOROASTER. By F. Marion

Crawford.

Tales. By Julian Hawthorne.
THE HARBOUR BAR.
MACMILLAN'S TWO SHILLING NOVELS :

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."
THEOGILVIES. I AGATHA'S HUSBAND.

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY.
OLIVE. I TWO MARRIAGES.

By Mrs. Oliphant.
THE CURATE IN CHARGE. I HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN

A SON OF THE SOIL.  ,,.v

YOUNG Misgave. | " *-

By Mrs. Macquoid.

PATTY.

By George Fleming.
A NILE NOVEL. t MIRAGE.

THE HEAD OF MEDUSA. | VESTIGIA.

By the Author of " Hogan, M.P."
HOGAN, M.P. FLITTERS. TATTERS. AND

THE COUNSELLOR: WEEDS,

THE HONOURABLE MISS ferrara.


AND OTHER SKETCHES.
CHRISTY CAREW.

By Annie Weary.
JANET'S HOME.

A SLIP IN THE FENS.
MACMILLAN'S ONE SHILLING VOLUMES

Crown Svo, sewed, is. each.

MEMOIR OF DANIEL Macmillan.
By Thomas Hughes, Q.C.

LOUISIANA. By Frances Hodgson
Burnett, Author of "That
Lasso' Lowrie's," &c.

CHARLES GEORGE GORDON.
A Sketch. By Reginald H.
Barnes, Vicar of Heavitree, and
Charles E. Brown, Major R.A.
With Facsimile Letter.

ANYHOW STORIES FOR
CHILDREN. By Mrs. W. K.
Clifford. With Illustrations by
Dorothy Tenant.

HOMES OF THE LONDON
POOR. By OcTAViA Hill.

CHARLEY KINGSTON'S AUNT.
A Study of Medical Life and Experience.
By Pen Oliver, F.R.C.S.
Popular Edition.

HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES on
several Points, particularly on the
Preparation of Economical and
Tasteful Dishes. By Mrs. Frederick.


d 2

MACQUOID. PATTY. New Edition. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

Globe 8vo. 2S.
MADOC THE STORY OF Reticent. By Far Madoc. Crown

8vo. 4S. 6d.
MAGUIRE. YOUNG PRINCE MARIGOLD, AND OTHER FAIRY

STORIES. By the late John Francis Maguire, M.P. Illustrated by S. E.

Waller. Globe 8vo, gilt. 4s. 6d.

MAHAFFY. Works by J. P. Mahaffy, M.A. Fellow o Trinity College,
Dublin :
SOCIAL LIFE IN GREECE FROM HOMER TO MENANDER. Fifth

Edition, enlarged, with New Chapter on Greek Art. Crown Svo. gs.
RAMBLES AND STUDIES IN GREECE. Illustrated. Second Edition.

revised and enlarged, with Map. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
THE DECAY OF MODERN PREACHING. An Essay. Crown Svo. 35. 6d.

Males. MRS. LORIMER. A Novel. By Lucas Male. Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d.

MASSON (Gustave. LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and
arranged with Notes. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. ' 4s. 6d.

MASSON (Mrs.). THREE CENTURIES OF ENGLISH POETRY:

being selections from Chaucer to Herrick, with Introductions and Notes by Mrs.

Mason and a general Introduction by Professor Mason. Extra cap. Svo.

3s. ci.
MASSON (Professor);  Works by David MASSON, M.A., Professor of

Rhetoric and English Literature in the University of Edinburgh.
WORDSWORTH, SHELLEY, KEATS, AND OTHER ESSAYS. Crown

Svo. 5J,
CHATTERTON : A Story of the Year 1770. Crown Svo. 5.
THE THREE DEVILS: LUTHER'S, MILTON'S AND GOETHE'S; and

other Essays. Crown Svo. 5s.
Mazzini.  IN THE GOLDEN SHELL: A Story of Palermo. By Linda

Mazzini. With Illustrations. Globe Svo, cloth gilt. 4s. 6d.

MEREDITH. POEMS AND LYRICS OF THE JOY OF EARTH.
By George Meredith. Extra Cap. Svo. 6j.

MILTON'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited with Text collated from

the best Authorities, with Introductions and Notes, by David Mason.

With three Portraits engraved by Jeens. Cap. Svo Edition. Three Vols.

15. (Globe Edition.) By the same Editor. Globe Svo. 3J. td.
MISS TOMMY. A Mediaeval Romance. By the Author of "John

Halifax, Gentleman." Illustrated by F. Noel Paton. Crown Svo. 6s.

Milford (A. B.). TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B. Milford,
Second Secretary to the British Legation in Japan. With Illustrations drawn
and cut on Wood by Japanese Artists. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
Svo. 6.y.

Mis MAZE, THE ; OR, THE Wentworth PUZZLE. A Story
in Letters by Nine Authors. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d.

The following Writers contribute to the Volume :  Miss Frances Tawdry, Miss
M. Cranston, Miss Christened R. Coleridge, Miss A. E. Anderson Forehead,
Miss C. M. Yonge, Miss F. M. Heard, Miss Mary S. Lee, Miss Eleanor Price,
and Miss Florence Milford.

Mohammed, SPEECHES AND Table-talk OF

THE PROPHET. Chosen and Translated by Stanley Lane-pool.
imo 4S.6d. (Golden Treasury Series.)

Wordsworth. Works by Mrs. Wordsworth (Ennis Graham).
US : AN Old-fashioned STORY. With Illustrations by Walter Cane.

Crown 8vo. 4. 6rf.
TWO LITTLE WAIFS. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. 45. 6d.
ROSY. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.
SUMMER STORIES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. Crown Svo. s.ed.
'The ADVENTURES OF HERR BABY. With Twelve full-page Pictures by

Walter Crane, Globe 410. 6s.
GRANDMOTHER DEAR. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo.

2J. 6d.
THE TAPESTRY ROOM. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo.

2S. 6d.
A CHRISTMAS CHILD. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.
Christmas-tree LAND. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Crown Svo.

45. 6d.
TELL ME A STORY. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.
"CARROTS": JUST A Little BOY. Illustrated by Walter Crane

New Edition. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.
THE CUCKOO CLOCK. Illustrated by Walter Crane. New Edition.

Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.

MORLEY. THE COLLECTED WORKS OF JOHN MORLEY. A New

Edition. Now Publishing Monthly. In 8 vols. Globe Svo. 5s. each.
VOLTAIRE. One Vol. [Heady. ON COMPROMISE. New and Re-rousseau.

Two Vols. [steady. vised Edition. [A/n7.

DIDEROT AND THE ENCYCLO- MISCELLANIES. Two Vols.

Papists. Two Vols. [March. {.May.

MORTE Arthur. SIR THOMAS MALORY'S BOOK OF
KING ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND
TABLE. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 3J. td.
MOULT ON.  SWALLOW FLIGHTS. Poems by Louise Chandler

MouLTON. Extra cap. 8vo. /. 6d
MOULTRIE.  POEMS by John Moultrie. Complete Edition. Two Vols.
Crown Svo. 7. each.
Vol. I. MY BROTHER'S GRAVE, DREAM OF LIFE, &c. With Memoir by

the Rev. Prebendary Coleridge.
Vol. II. LAYS OF THE ENGLISH CHURCH, and other Poems. With notices
of the Rectors of Rugby, by M. H. Bloxham, F.R.A.S

MRS. GANDER'S STORY. ByH.A. H. With Twenty-four Full-page

Illustrations by N. Huxley. Demy oblong. 3. 6d.
MUDIE. STRAY LEAVES. By C. E. Muche. New Edition. Extra cap.

8vo. 3. 6d. Contents:  " His and Mine"  "Night and Day"  "One of

Many," &c.
MURRAY.  ROUND ABOUT FRANCE. By E. C. Grenville Murray.

Crown Svo-js. 6d.
MURRAY.  AUNT RACHEL: A Rustic Sentimental Comedy. By J. D.

Christie Murray, Author of "Joseph's Coat." 2 Vols. Globe Svo. 125'.

MUSIC A DICTIONARY OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS (a.d. i<co-
1886). By Eminent Writers, English and Foreign. With Illustrations and
Woodcuts. Edited by Sir George Grove. D.C.L., Director of the Royal
College of Music. Svj. Parts I. to XIV., XIX. to XXL, 3. 6d. each.
Parts XV. and XVI., 7. Part XVII. and XVIII. , js.

Vols I II. and III. Svo. dis. I Vol. II.-IMPROPERIAto PLAIN
.o.K SONG.

""- Vol. III. PLANCHE to SUMER

Vol. I. A to IMPROMPTU. | IS Acumen IN.

Cloth cases for binding Vols. I., II., and III., i. each.

MYERS (Ernest. Works by Ernest Avers, M.A.

THE PURITANS. Extra cap. 8vo. 2S. 6d.

POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 45. 6d.

THE EXTANT ODES OF PINDAR. Translated into English, wUh Introduction
and short Notes, by Ernest Myers. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. ss.

THE JUDGMENT OF PROMETHEUS, AND OTHER POEMS. Extra
Cap. 8vo. \ Immediately.

MYERS (F. W. H.). Works by Fi W. H. Myers, M.A.
ST. PAUL. A Poem. New Edition. Extra cap. 8vo. 25. 6rf.
THE RENEWAL OF YOUTH, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. 7*. (,d.
ESSAYS. 2 Vols. I. Classical. II. Modern. Crown 8vo. ass. 6d. each
WORDSWORTH (English Men of Letters Series). Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Naval. ESSAYS AT HOME AND ELSEWHERE. By E. S. Natal.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

NINE YEARS OLD. By the Author of "St. Slave's," ' When I was a
Little Girl," &c. Illustrated by Frolichh. New Edition. Globe 8vo. zs. 6d.

NOEL. BEATRICE, AND OTHER POEMS. By the Hon. Rode Noel.
Cap. 8vo. 6.y.

NORTON. Works by the Hon. Mrs. Norton.
THE LADY OF LA GARAYE. With Vignette and Frontispiece. Eighth Edition-cap.

8vo. s. 6d.
OLD SIR DOUGLAS. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*.

OLIPHANT. Works by Mrs. Oliphant.

THE LITERARY HISTORY OF ENGLAND in the end of the Eighteenth
and beginning of the Nineteenth Century. Cheaper Issue. With a New Preface.
3 Vols. Demy 8vo. 21J.

AGNES HOPETOUN's SCHOOLS AND HOLIDAYS. New Edition, with
Illustrations. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.

THE WIZARD'S SON. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*.

HESTER: a Story of Contemporary Life. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*.

SIR TOM. Crown 8vo. 6s.

A SON OF THE SOIL. New Edition. Globe 8vo. 2*.

THE CURATE IN CHARGE. New Edition. Globe 8vo. 2*.

YOUNG Misgave. Cheaper Edition. Globe 8vo. 2s.

HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN HE MAY. Cheaper Edition. Globe 8vo. 2s.

A Country GENTLEMAN. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. sis. 6d. [In the press.

THE MAKERS OF FLORENCE: Dante, Giotto, Savonarola, and their City.
With Illustrations from Drawings by Professor Melmotte, and a Steel Portrait
of Savonarola, engraved by C. H. Jeens. New and Cheaper Edition with Preface.
Crown 8vo. Cloth extra, los. 6d.

THE BELEAGUERED CITY. Cheaper Edition, Crown 8vo. 6s.

DRESS. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. {.Art at Home Series.

OLIVER (Pen. CHARLEY KINGSTON'S AUNT. ByPEwOuvER,
F.R.C.S, Popular Edition. Crown 8 vo. \s.

OUR YEAR. A Child's Book, in Prose and Verse. By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman." Illustrated by Clarence Dobell. Globe 8vo.
2i. 6d.

OWEN. THE STORY OF CATHERINE. By the Author of "A Lost
Love " (AsHFORD Owen). Crown 8vo. 6s.

Palgrave.  Works by Francis Turner Palgrave, M.A., Professor of

Poetry' in the University of Oxford, late Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford.
THE FIVE DAYS' ENTERTAINMENTS AT WENTWORTH GRANGE.

A Book for Children. With Illustrations by Arthur Hughes, and Engraved

Title-page by Jeens. Small 410, cloth extra. 6s.
LYRICAL POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.
ORIGINAL HYMNS. Third Edition, enlarged imo. js. 6d.
VISIONS OF ENGLAND ; being a series of Lyrical Poems on Leading Events

and Persons in English History. With a Preface and Notes. Crown 8vo. ys. 6d.
GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS AND LYRICS. Edited

by F. T. Palgrave. imo. 4. 6d.
SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS AND SONGS. Edited by F. T. Palgrave.

With Vignette Title by Jeens. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. as. 6d.
THE CHILDREN'S TREASURY OF LYRICAL POETRY. Selected and

arranged with Notes by F. T. Palgrave. imo. 2s. 6d. And in Two Parts,

\s. each.
HERRICK: SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL POEMS. With Notes.

(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4. 6d.
LYRICAL POEMS. By Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Poet Laureate. Selected

and Annotated. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. a,s- 6d.
THE POETICAL WORKS OF JOHN KEATS. Reprinted from the

Original Editions. With Notes. (Golden Treasury Series ) iS.-no. s. 6d.

Pansies's FLOUR BIN. By the Author of "When I was a Little
Girl," " St. Slave's," &c. Illustrated by Adrian Stokes. Globe 8vo. s. 6d.

PARKER. THE NATURE OF THE FINE ARTS. By H. Parker,
M.A., Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. Crown 8vo. los. 6d.

PATER.  Works by Walter Pater, Fellow of Brasenose College, Oxford:
THE RENAISSANCE. Studies in Art and Poetry. Second Edition,

Revised, with Vignette engraved by C. H. Jeens. Crown 8vo. xos. 6d.
MARIUS, THE EPICUREAN: His Sensations and Ideas. Second and

Cheaper Edition. Two Vols. 8vo. 12s.

PATMORE. THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND, from the Best Poets.
Selected and arranged by Coventry Patmore. New Edition. With Illustrations
by J. Lawson. (Golden Treasury Edition.) imo. 45. 6d. Globe
Readings Edition for Schools, Globe 8vo, 2s.

PEEL. ECHOES FROM HOREB. AND OTHER POEMS. By Edmund
Peel, Author of " An Ancient City," &c. Crown 8vo. s. 6d.

PEOPLE'S EDITIONS. Profusely illustrated, medium 4to, 6d. each;
or complete in One Vol. , cloth, 3.
TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By an Old Boy.
Watertown's WANDERINGS IN SOUTH AMERICA.
WASHINGTON IRVING'S OLD CHRISTMAS.
WASHINGTON IRVING'S Drawbridge HALL.

PHILLIPS (S. K.). ON THE SEABOARD; and other Poems. By
Susan K. Phillips. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 55.

PINDAR. THE EXTANT ODES OF PINDAR. Translated into
English, with Introduction and short Notes, by Ernest Myers, M A., late
Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 55.

PLATO.  THE REPUBLIC OF. Translated into English with Notes by
J. Ll. Davies, M.A., and D. J. Vaughan, M.A. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 4 J. 6d.

POEMS OF PLACES (ENGLAND AND WALES). Edited by

H. W. Longfellow. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4*. 6d.

POETS (English. SELECTIONS, with Critical Introduction by
various writers, and a general Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited by
T. H. Ward, M.A. Four Vols. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 7. 6d. each.

Vol. I. CHAUCER TO DONNE.

Vol. II. BEN JONSON TO DRYDEN.

Vol. in. ADDISON TO BLAKE.

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH TO ROSSETTI.

POOLE. PICTURES OF COTTAGE LIFE IN THE WEST OF
ENGLAND. By Margaret E. Poole. New and Cheaper Edition. With
Frontispiece by R. Barren. Crown 8vo. jy. 6d.

POPE. POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited with Notes and Introductory
Memoir by Adolphus William Ward, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo.
3. 6d.

POPULATION OF AN OLD PEAR TREE. From the French
of E. Van Brussels, Edited by the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe."
With Illustrations by Decker. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, gilt. 4* 6d.

POTTER. LANCASHIRE MEMORIES. By Louisa Potter. Crown
Svo. 6s.

PUSHKIN. EUGENE ON EGUINE. A Romance of Russian Life in Verse.
By Alexander Pushkin. Translated from the Russian by Lieut-Col. Spalding.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

REALM AH.  By the Author of " Friends in Council." Crown Svo. 6s.

REED. MEMOIR OF SIR CHARLES REED. By His Son, Charles E.
B. Reed, M.A. With a Portrait. Crown Svo. 4. 6d.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited, with Biographical Introduction, by
Henry Kingsley. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 3 6<. Golden Treasury
Edition. Edited by J. W. Clark, M.A. imo. 45. 6d.

ROPES.  POEMS. By Arthur Reed Ropes. Cap. Svo. y- 6d.

ROSS. A Misguided LASSIE. By Percy Ross. Crown Svo. s.6d.

ROSSETTI.  Works by Christina Rossetti.
POEMS. Complete Edition, containing "Goblin Market," "The Price s
Progress," &c. With Four Illustrations by D. G. Rossetti. Extra cap. Svo.

A PAGEANT, AND OTHER POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo 6.
SPEAKING LIKENESSES. Illustrated by Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo.
gilt edges. 45. 6d.
ROSSETTI (D.G.). DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI f a Record and a
Study. By William Sharp. With an Illustration after Dante Gabriel
Rossetti. Crown Svo. xos. 6d.
RUNAWAY, THE. By the Author of " Mrs. Birmingham's Journal." With

Illustrations. Globe Svo. 2. 6d.
RUTH AND HER FRIENDS. A Story for Girls. With a Frontispiece.
New Edition. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.
ST. JOHNSTON. Works by Alfred St. Johnston:
CAMPING AMONG CANNIBALS. Crown Svo. 4.6.
CHARLIE Astarte. A Tale of Adventure. A Story for Boys. Crown Svo. 5*.

SCOTT (SIR Walter. POETICAL WORKS OF. Editedwltha
Biographical and Critical Memoir by Francis Turner Palgrave. (Globe
Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3. 6d.

THE LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL; and THE LADY OF THE
LAKE. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Francis Turner
Palgrave. Globe 8vo. is. (Abbe Readings for Schools.)

MARMION ; and THE LORD OF THE ISLES. By the same Editor.
Globe 8vo. IS. (Globe Readings for Schools.)

SCOTTISH SONG. A SELECTION OF THE CHOICEST LYRICS

OF SCOTLAND. By Mary Carlyle Aitken. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 4. 6d.

SCOURING OF THE WHITE HORSE; OR. THE LONG

VACATION RAM Able OF A LONDON CLERK. By the Author of " Tom
Brown's School Days." Illustrated by Doyle. Imp. imo. Cloth gilt. sj.

SEELEY. THE EXPANSION OF ENGLAND. Two Courses of Lectures.
By J. R. Seeley, M.A., Regius Professor of Modern History in the University of
Cambridge, Fellow of Glanville and Caius College, &c. Crown 8vo. 4J. 6d.

Melbourne (EAPL). THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best
English Hymn writer. golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4.. 6d.

SERMONS OUT OF CHURCH. By the Author of " John Halifax.
Gentleman." Crown 8vo. 6s.

SHAKESPEARE. The Works of William Shakespeare. Cambridge
Edition. Edited by W. George Clark, M.A., and W. Aldis Wright, M.A.
Nine Vols. 8vo, cloth.

SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited, by W. G.
Clark, M.A., and W, Aldis Wright, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo.
35-. 6a.

SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited, with
Notes, by Francis Turner Palgrave. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo.
4J. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE. CHARLES LAMB'S TALES FROM Shakespeare.
Edited, with Preface, by Rev. A. Ainger. (Golden Treasury
Series.) imo. 4. 6d. Globe Readings Edition f3r Schools, Globe Svo, 2s.

SHELLEY.  POEMS OF SHELLEY. Edited by Stafford A. Brooke,
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45 6d. Also a fine Edition printed on hand-made
paper. Crown Svo. 1.2s. 6d.

Storehouse. Works J. H. Storehouse.
JOHN Inelegant : A ROMANCE. Crown Svo. 6s.
THE LITTLE SCHOOLMASTER MARK. A Spiritual Romance. In Two
Parts. Crown Svo. 2s, 6d. each ; or complete in one volume, 4. 6d.

Shrine. UNDER TWO QUEENS. Lyrics written for the Tercentenary
Festival of the Founding of Bingham School. By John Huntley Shrine,
Author of "Bingham by the Sea," &c. Crown Svo. 3..

SLIP IN THE FENS, A. New and Popular Edition. Globe Svo. 2s.

SMITH.  POEMS. By Catherine Barnard Smith. Cap. Svo. s.

SMITH. THREE ENGLISH STATESMEN. A Course of Lectures on the
Political History of England. By Godwin Smith. New Edition. Crown
8vo. 55.

SONG BOOK. WORDS AND TUNES FROM THE BEST POETS
AND MUSICIANS. Selected and arranged by John Hullah. (Golden
Treasury Series.) imo. 4J. 6d.

SOPHOCLES. OEDIPUS THE KING. Translated from the Greek of
Sophocles into English Verse by E. D. A. Forehead, M.A., late Fellow of
New College, Oxford, Assistant Master at Winchester College. Cap. 8vo. 3. 6rf.

SPENSER.COMPLETE WORKS OF. Edited by the Rev. R. Morris.
M.A., LL.D., with a Memoir by J. W. Hales, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe
8vo. 3s. 6d.

STANLEY.  Addresses and Sermons delivered during a Visit to the United
States and Canada In 1878. By Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, D.D., late
Dean of Westminster. Crown 8vo. 6s.

STEPHEN (C. E.). THE SERVICE OF THE POOR; being an
Inquiry into the Reasons for and against the Establishment of Religious Sisterhoods
for Charitable Purposes. By Caroline Emilia Stephen. Crown 8vo.
6s. 6d.

STEPHENS (J. B,). CONVICT ONCE: and other Poems. By J.

Brandon Stephens. New Edition. Crown 8vo. js. 6d.
TANNER. THE ABBOT'S FARM: or, PRACTICE WITH SCIENCE.
By Henry Tanner, M.R.A.C, F.C.S., lateProfessorof Principles of Agriculture
in the Royal Agricultural College ; Examiner in the Principles of Agriculture
under the Government Department of Science. Author of "First Principles
of Agriculture," &c. Extra cap. 8vo. 3J. 6d.
TENNYSON.  Works by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, D.C.L., Poet Laureate.
COMPLETE WORKS. New and Revised Edition, with New Portrait.

Crown Bvo-js. 6d.
COMPLETE WORKS. An Edition for Schools. In Four Parts. Crown 8vo.

zs. 6d. each.
COLLECTED WORKS. In Seven Volumes. Cap. 8vo. 5*. each.
(A limited number of copies are printed on Hand-made Paper. This Edition is
sold only in Sets, price 3 13s. 6d.)
Vol. I. EARLY POEMS.
Vol. II. LUCRETIUS : and other POEMS.
Vol. III. IDYLLS OF THE KING.
Vol. IV. THE PRINCESS : and MAUD.
Vol. V. ENOCH ARDEN : and IN MEMORIAM.
Vol. VI. QUEEN MARY : and HAROLD.
Vol VII. BALLADS : and other POEMS.

LYRICAL POEMS. Selected and Annotated by Francis Turner Palgrave.

(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. /s.6d. Large Paper Edition. 8vo. 9*.
IN MEMORIAM. imo. s. 6d. Large Paper Edition. 8vo. 95.
THE TENNYSON BIRTHDAY BOOK. Edited by Emily Shakespear. In
two sizes, (i) Extra Cap. 8vo Edition on Hand-made Paper with red lines. 5*.
(2) 1 4 mo. 2 J. 6d.
THE ORIGINAL EDITIONS. Cap. 8vo. :

POEMS. 6s.

MAUD : and other POEMS. 3. 6d.

THE PRINCESS. 3- idylls

OF THE KING. (Collected.) 6s.

ENOCH ARDEN : &c. 35. 6d.

THE HOLY GRAIL : and other POEMS. 4. 6d.

IN MEMORIAM. ass.

BALLADS : and other POEMS. 5.

HAROLD : a Drama. 6s.

QUEEN MARY : a Drama. 6s.

THE CUP : and the FALCON. 5.

BECKET. 6s.

TIRESIAS : and other POEMS. 6s.

Messrs. Macmillan & Co. havealso the following Editions of Lord Tennyson's
Works as issued by Messrs. Began Paul :

The Imperial Library Edition. 8vo. lO-. 6d. each : 

The Princess : and other Poems.
In Memoriam : and Malta.
Queen Mary : and Harold.

The Author's Edition. Crown 8vo : 

Early Poems : and English Idylls. (>s.

I.ocksley Hall: Lucretius: and other Pools. 6j.

Idylls of the King (complete), s. 6d.

The Princess : and Maud. 6j.

Enoch Arden : and In Memoriam. 6s.

Queen Mary : and Harold, ys.

The Lover s Tale : Ballads and other Poems. 51.

The Cabinet Edition. Cap 8vo. 2s. 6d. each : 

Early Poems.

Locksley Hall : 'c.

Latere litis : and other Poems.

Idylls o/tJie King. Vol .

Idylls 0/ the Kitty. Vol II.

Queen Mary.

Harold.

The Lover s Tale : Ba. lads : and other Poems.

The Shilling Volume Edition. imo. \s. each : 

Maud.
Queen Mary.
Harold.

The Lover's Tale : Ballads : Csc.

The Royal Edition. One Vol. Royal Svo. \6s.
Selections from Tennyson's Works. Square Svo. 3. 6.
Selections from Tennyson's Works. Gilt. Square Svo. 41.
Songs from Tennyson's Writings. Square Svo. 2s. 6d.

TENNYSON'S "IN MEMORIAM": ITS PURPOSE AND ITS

STRUCTURE. A Study. By Johns F. Genung. Crown 8vo. 51.

THIRTY YEARS. BEING POEMS NEW AND OLD. By the Author
of "John Halifax. Gentleman." New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THROUGH THE RANKS TO A COMMISSION. A;a(/

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 2. td.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By An Old Boy. With Seven

Illustrations by A. Hughes and Sydney Hall. Crown 8vo. 6j. ; Golden
Treasury Edition. 4. dd.; People's Edition. 2*. People's Sixpenny Illustrated
Edition. Medium 410. dd.

TOM BROWN AT OXFORD. New Edition. With Illustrations

Crown Svo. 6.

TOURGENIEF. VIRGIN SOIL. By I. TouRGENiEF. Translated by
AsHTON W. DiLKE. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. ts.

TRENCH. Works by R. Chenevix Trench, D.D. (For other Works by
this Author, see Theological, Historical, and Philosophical Catalogues.)

POEMS. Collected and arranged anew. Two Vols. Globe Svo. 10*. Popular
One Volume Edition. Cap. Svo. 7-. dd.

HOUSEHOLD BOOK OF ENGLISH POETRY. Selected and arranged, with
Notes, by R. Chenevix Trench, D.D. Fourth Edition, revised. Extra cap.
Svo. 55. 6d.

SACRED LATIN POETRY, Chiefly Lyrical Selected and arranged for Use.
By R. Chenevix Trench, D.D. Third Edition, Corrected and Improved.
Cap. Svo. 75.

TURNER. COLLECTED SONNETS, OLD AND NEW. By Charles
Tennyson Turner. Extra cap. Svo. "js. 6d.

TYRWHITT. OUR SKETCHING CLUB. Letters and Studies on Landscape
Art. By the Rev. R. St. John Tyrwhitt, M.A. With an Authorised
Reproduction of the Lessons and Woodcuts in Professor Ruskin's " Elements of
Drawing." New Edition. Crown Svo. 7*. td.

VELEY. MITCHELHURST PLACE. By Margaret Veley, Author of
For Percival." New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. ds.

VIRGIL. THE WORKS OF. Rendered into English Prose. By James
Lonsdale, M.A., and Samuel Lee, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 35. dd.

VIRGIL. THE AENEID. Translated into English Prose by J. W. Macklin.
M.A., Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford. Crown Svo. "js. 6d.

VOICES CRYING IN THE WILDERNESS. A Novel. Crown
Svo. 7*. 6d.



WARD. ENGLISH POETS. Selections, with Critical Introduction by
various writers, and a general Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited by
T. H. Ward, M.A. Four Vols. Crown 8vo. 7. 6d. each,

VoL I. CHAUCER TO DONNE.

Vol. II BEN JONSON TO DRYDEN

Vol. III. ADDISON TO BLAKE.

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH TO Rossetti

WARD (Samuel. LYRICAL RECREATIONS. By Samuel Ward.
Cap. 8vo. 6,r.

WARD (MRS. Humphrey. Works by Mrs. Humphrey Ward:
Silly AND Only ; or, a Holiday among the Mountains. Illustrated by

Mrs. Alma Tadema. Globe 8vo. is. 6d.
MISS Brethren. Crown 8vo. 6s.

WEBSTER.  Works by Augusta Webster.
DRAMATIC STUDIES. Extra cap. 8vo. 5:.

A WOMAN SOLD, AND OTHER POEMS. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d.
PORTRAITS. Second Edition. Extra cap. 8vo. 3. 6d.
THE AUSPICIOUS DAY. A Dramatic Poem. Extra cap. 8vo. 5J.
YU-PE-YA's LUTE. A Chinese Tale in English Verse. Extra cap. 8vo. 3J. 6d.
A HOUSEWIFE'S OPINIONS. Crown 8vo. 7. 6d.
A BOOK OF RHYME. Crown 8vo. 35. 6d.

DAFFODIL AND THE CROAXAXICANS. A Romance of History. Crown
8vo. 6s.

WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL. Bathe Author of "St. Slaves."
Illustrated by L. Frolichh. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.

WHEN PAPA COMES HOME : The Story of Tip. Tap, Toe. By
the Author of " Nine Years Old," " Anne's Flour Bin," &c. With Illustrations
by W. J. Hennessy. Globe 8vo. s. 6d.

Whittier-JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER'S POETICAL WORKS
Complete Edition, with Portrait engraved by C. H. Jekns. imo. 45. 6d.

WILBRAHAM. THE SERE AND YELLOW LEAF: Thoughts and
Recollections for Old and Young. By Frances W. Wilbraham, Author of
Streets and Lanes of a City." With a Preface by the Right Rev. W. Walsh
How, D.D Bishop of Bedford, Suffragan of London. Globe 8vo. 3J. 6d.

WILLOUGHBY. FAIRY GUARDIANS. A Book for the Young, By
F. Willoughby. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, gilt, s-

WILLS.  Melchior: A Poem. By W. G. Wills, Author of " Charles I.,"
Olivia," &c., Writer of " Claudia." Crown 8vo. gs.

WOOD.  THE ISLES OF THE BLEST, and other POEMS. By Andrew
Goldie Wood. Globe svo. SJ.

WOOLNER Works by Thomas Woolner, R.A.
MY BEAUTIFUL LADY. With a Vignette by A. Hughes. Third Edition.

Cap. 8vo. 5J.
PYGMALION. A Poem, Crown 8vo. 75. 6d.
SILENUS: a Poem. Crown 8vo. 6s.

WORDS FROM THE POETS. Selected by the Editor of "Rays
of Sunlight." With a Vignette and Frontispiece. imo, limp. i*.

WORDSWORTH. SELECT POEMS]' OF. Chosen and Edited, with
Preface, by Matthew Arnold. (Golden Treasury Series.) i8ino. 4s. 6d.
Fine Edition. Crown 8vo, hand-made paper, with Portrait of Wordsworth
engraved by C. H. Jeens, and Printed on India Paper, qs.

YONGE (C. M.). New Illustrated Edition of Novels and Tales by Charlotte

M. YoNGE.

In Twenty-one Volumes. Crown Bvo. 6s. each : 
Vol. I. THE HEIR OF Radcliffe. With Illustrations by Kate Green

AWAY.

II. Heartless. With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway.

II. HOPES AND FEARS. With Illustrations by Herbert Gandy.

IV. DYNEVOR TERRACE. With Illustrations by Adrian Stokes.

V. THE DAISY CHAIN. Illustrated by J. P. Atkinson.

VI. THE TRIAL. Illustrated by J. P. Atkinson.

Vn.& VIII. THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE; or, UNDER Mode,
UNDER RODE. Illustrated by Herbert Gandy. Two Vols.

IX. THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER. New Edition. Illustrated by Marian
Huxley.

X. CLEVER WOMAN OF THE FAMILY. New Edition. Illustrated
by Adrian Stokes.

XI. THE THREE BRIDES. Illustrated by Adrian Stokes.

XII. MY YOUNG Allies : or, A FADED PHOTOGRAPH. Illustrated
by Adrian Stokes.

XIII. THE CAGED LION. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XIV. THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S NEST. Illustrated by W. J. Hen nbssy.

XV. THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS; or, THE WHITE AND BLACK
RIBAUMONT. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XVI. LADY HESTER : AND THE Dangers PAPERS. Illustrated by
Jane E. Cook.

XVII. MAGNUM BONUM; or. MOTHER CAREY'S BROOD. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy.

XVIII. LOVE AND LIFE. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XIX. UNKNOWN TO HISTORY. A Story of the Captivity of Mary of
Scotland. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XX. STRAY PEARLS : MEMOIRS OF MARGARET DE RIBAUMONT,
VISCOUNTESS OF BELLAISE. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XXI. THE ARMOURER'S PRENTICES. Illustrated by W. J. Hbnnessy.

YONGE (CM.). Works by Charlotte M. Y otiCK continued

THE PRINCE AND THE PAGE. A Tale of the Last Crusade. Illustrated.
New Edition. Globe 8vo. /s. 6d.

THE LANCES OF Logwood. New Edition. With Illustrations. Globe
8vo. 4J. 6d.

THE LITTLE DUKE: RICHARD THE FEARLESS. New Edition
Illustrated. Globe 8vo. 4. 6d.

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS OF ALL TIMES AND ALL Countries,
Gathered and Narrated Anew. (Golden Treasury Series.) 4J. 6d'
Globe Readings Edition for Schools, Globe Svo, zr. Cheap Edition, is.

LITTLE LUCY'S WONDERFUL GLOBE. Illustrated by L. Frolichh.
Globe Svo. 4-f . 6d.

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. s. 6d.

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS IN SPAIN.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. s. 6d.

CAMEOS FROM ENGLISH HISTORY, From Rollo to Edward IL
Third Edition, enlarged. Extra cap. Svo. $s.

Second Series. THE WARS IN FRANCE. New Edition. Extra cap.
Svo. jy.

Third Series. THE WARS OF THE ROSES. Extra cap. Svo. 5*.

Fourth Series. REFORMATION TIMES. Extra cap. Svo. ss-

Fifth Series. ENGLAND AND SPAIN. Extra cap, Svo. ss-

P'S AND Q'S; or, THE QUESTION OF PUTTING UPON. With
Illustrations by C. O. Murray. New Edition. Globe Svo, cloth gilt. 45. 6d.

Byword: A COLLECTION OF TALES NEW AND OLD. Crown
Svo. 6s.

THE TWO SIDES OF THE SHIELD. Two Vols. Crown Svo. 12s.

HISTORY OF CHRISTIAN NAMES. New Edition, revised. Crown Svo.
TS. 6d.

NUTTIE's FATHER. Two Vols. Crown Svo. 12s.

CHANTRY HOUSE. Two Vols. Crown Svo. 12s. [In the press.

The new venture is a very excellent return for sixpence. . . . There
has never been anything seen like it for the money" 7% WorM.

* It is wonderfully cheap and it is good in all respects most
excellent" .$/. James's Gazette.

"Is well worth two sixpences instead of one."  Punch.

Profusely Illustrated, Monthly, price Sixpence ; by Post, Eighteen.
THE

lEnoUsb JUusttateb flbaoaslne,

Single Numbers, price Sixpence; by Post, Eighteen.
Yearly Subscription, including Double Number, post free, 8s.

A NEW GIFT BOOK. WITH 500 PICTURES.

Be English
illustrated nbaaastne 1885.

A Handsome Volume, consisting ofZi,o closely-printed pages, containing nearly

500 Woodcut Illustrations of various sizes, bound in extra cloth,

coloured edges. Royal Bz/o, price 8j.

The VoKime contains a complete novel, "A Family Affair," by Hugh

Conway, Author of "Called Back," and also complete Stories and Essays by

Bred Harte, the Author of "John Herring," Archibald Forbes, J. Henry

Storehouse, Henry Irving, Mrs. Oliphant, and others, besides numerous

interesting Miscellaneous Articles by the First Authors of the day.

The Volume for 1884, price-js. 6d., contains a Complete Series of Descriptive
Sketches by the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman," visit Illustrations by C.
Napier Hey ; a Complete Historical Novel by Charlotte M. Yonge ; and
numerous Short Stories and Essays on Popular Subjects by well-known Writers.

We could not name, for the price, a handsomer prize or resQTit." Journal oj
Education. . .

"A highly satisfactory volume, got up with care and taste, and containing a great
deal of interesting reading. . It is a wonderful miscellany for the price" T/j

A thence.

Now ready, in Portfolio, price 21J. /

PROOF IMPRESSIONS OF ENGRAVINGS

originally published in

tube lenoUeb 3Uu6trate& flDagasine.

Among the art books which have been published this season there is none more
entirely satisfactory than Proof Impressions of Engravings which originally
appeared in The English Illustrated Magazine. There are twenty welt-chosen
examples, very delicately printed on India paper. . . . The novel design of the
covers of the portfolio is a marvel in itself, and worthy of the contents. Mr. Comines
Carr is to be congratulated on the result of his first year's \a\>o\xxi." Saturday
Review.

"The entire contents of this portfolio form a lesson in wood engraving which ought
to prove no less instructive to our artists than to the general pubic."  The Academy.

MACMILLAN AND CO. LONDON.

LONDON : RICHARD CLAY AND SONS, PRINTERS.

>-

Jibe gears of an uneventful Life

BY

JOANNA HARRISON

VOL. II.

Honiton

MACMILLAN AND CO.


[A/i rights reserved']

V. 2

CHAPTER XVI.

The father cracks of horses, ploughs, and skye,
The youngster's artless heart o'erflows wi' joy,
But, blate and faithful', scarce can weel behave ;
The mother, wi' a woman's wiles, can spy
What makes the youth sae bashful' and sae grave. '

A VARIETY of causes combined to detain
David at Ardvoira, and he was now chafing
with impatience to get away. Had it not
been for the wise counsels of his friend
Ponsonby, there is no saying what rash
step he might not have taken.

Ponsonby was some years older than
David, and far more a man of the world.
He had studied for the bar in early life, and
had gone a good deal into society in London.
At that time he had met and fallen
deeply in love with David's cousin, Rosamond
Mortimer, then a beautiful young girl in her
first season. Her parents interfered to pre-vol.

II. B

vent an engagement, but Ponsonby's affection
was fully returned by the young lady herself,
with whom he contrived to keep up a correspondence
for some time ; and she promised
to wait, no matter how long, for him,
while he worked to the utmost of his powers
in order to realise a sufficient income to
maintain a wife in comfort.

The following year he had gone on a
walking tour on the Continent with David,
just after the latter had passed his preliminary
examination for Sandhurst, and on their
return to England the first news which met
Ponsonby's eye was the announcement in a
society paper of a marriage shortly to take
place between Sir Roger Seathwaite of
Seathwaite Hall, Yorkshire, and Miss Rosamond
Mortimer, eldest daughter of Sir
Richard and Lady Mary Mortimer, of
Wynchcombe, Devon. The letter which
Ponsonby at once wrote to Rosamond was
returned to him unopened, and very soon
afterwards the marriage took place.

Ponsonby had never taken any real interest

in his profession, and after this blow he
threw it up in disgust. He went to Rome
and studied painting, for which he had considerable
talent. Not long afterwards he
unexpectedly succeeded to a fortune, which,
though not large, might have enabled him to
marry, had it come in time. And now heled
a wandering and somewhat aimless life.
He had met Rosamond several times in
society since her marriage ; he knew that she
was not happy with her husband, who was a
man of bad habits and violent temper ; and
though no actual explanation had ever passed
between them, Ponsonby guessed that her
marriage had been brought about, not by her
own choice, but by the influence, possibly the
manoeuvres, of her family. This surmise,
however, he never confided to David, who
was extremely indignant on his friend's
account, and who cherished a bitter grudge
against his cousin, although he had seen little
of her.

It was not long before Ponsonby drew
from David the history of his own love affair.

which, Indeed, that young man was quite
ready to speak about, and also to dilate at
great length upon Elsie's charms, and his
own difficulties and cares ; to all of which his
friend listened with praiseworthy patience,
but with inward disapproval. He had not a
high opinion of David's estimate of women,
and was sorry that he had gone too far to
recede. He did not for a moment allow
himself to suppose that the girl would really
wait for David, or that the marriage would
ever take place, and thought It kindest, therefore,
not to be too encouraging.

I was a fool, I suppose,' said David, ' to
speak when I did, and get her and myself
into a row.'

You were, my dear boy, if you will
excuse my saying so, a very complete ass.
You have done for yourself all round, it
seems to me.'

Nothing of the sort ! ' retorted David.
It Is only a matter of time. And as to being
such an ass, I would have been a far greater
ass if I had let it alone. Under the circumstances

I couldn't have done anything
different.'

Ponsonby raised his eyebrows, but said
nothing.

You would have done the same yourself,
Ponsonby,' pursued David.

I think not,' replied his friend.

And now the next thing to be done,' said
David, ' the only thing, is to go and get her
father to give his consent. He is a cross-grained
old chap, as I understand, but you'd
think he'd see the thing in a right light, when
it is put before him.'

Ponsonby was silent for a few moments,
while he took out a cigarette and lit it. Then
he said, ' I don't want to discourage you,
David ; I think, under the circumstances, it
is the only thing you can do. But don't be

surprised if well, leave it to time. There

is no saying what may happen.'

No, there isn't. All sorts of confounded
things may be happening at this moment,
and I kept here, not able to move hand or
foot  it's enough to make a saint swear.'

Ponsonby was In no such hurry to leave
Ardvolra. The shooting was good, and the
party pleasant; and had David been, as
usual, full of good humour and overflowing
with spirits, he could have stayed on contentedly
for weeks. But David in love was
not such an agreeable companion as to render
a longer sojourn desirable. Both young men,
therefore, were glad when the last of the
guests had departed, and there was now no
absolute need for David to remain ; and one
morning towards the end of September they
set off together, Ponsonby to pay some visits
in Perthshire, Intending to meet his friend
again on his way south after leaving Rossle.

David reached St. Ethernans the same
evening, and soon found the Star Hotel,
which Elsie, with due forethought, had recommended
to him. Here he remained all
night, and the next morning after breakfast
was eager to set out for Rossle, though half
afraid to arrive too early. He passed Aunt
Grizel's house, which he recognised from
Elsie's description ; he even stopped in front

of it, but decided that it would be impossible
to intrude upon an old lady at that early hour.
After a few minutes of indecision, he set out
to walk to Rossiee. True, he did not know
the way, but he could inquire ; it would be
better to lose himself than to arrive there inopportunely.


The way for nearly three miles was quite
simple, but after passing through the thick
wood which lay beyond the moor, the road
divided into two branches, and David, after
some deliberation, took the wrong turning,
though he was now on the Rossiee property.
He had not proceeded far before he was
aware of a great shouting, hallooing, and
barking of dogs ; and presently perceived that
part of a flock of sheep, which was being
driven along the road he had just quitted,
had broken away, and that two men were
vainly trying to head them.

From his position in front, David saw at
once what was needed, and springing over
the ' dyke ' into the field, he easily managed
to turn the foremost stragglers, so that when

the men came up they were soon able to
restore the escaped sheep to the main
body.

This done, David asked whether he was
on the right road to Rossiee.

Gang you dorrit wi' the sheep, Hang-us,'
said one of the men, with a commanding
gesture, for he was none other than Sandy
Duncan, the Rossiee grieve. ' Aweel, sir, gin
ye're for Rossiee, ye' re on the right enough
rod, in wan sense. And gin ye're a friend, I
wad just say, gang east 'through yon park, it's
reel direct. But if ye're no acquaint wi' the
family, I wad gie ye my advice to turn
about an' tak' the public rod. The devils
has given us an awful' dance, as they lev,' he
concluded, taking off his hat, and wiping his
forehead.

Are they Captain Ross's sheep ? ' asked
David.

Ou ay, they're just some o' wer ain
glimmers. Ay! an' it hanna been you, I
wadna winder but we'd lost wer then. Gude
day d'ye, sir,' and as David was moving off.

Sandy once more shouted after him, * Yonder
the Laird himsel' ! gin ye speir at him he'll
maybe gie ye permission to gang 'through the
park.'

The Laird himsel' ! David's heart beat
quicker at those words, but taking the bull,
so to speak, by the horns, he went straight
up to the Laird and accosted him with a
friendly smile. ' How do you do, Captain
Ross ?' said he. ' I have just had the pleasure
of turning your sheep.'

The Laird surveyed him from head to
foot with a blank countenance.

I'm obliged to you,' he said at length.
That shepherd of mine is the greatest idiot
that ever drew breath in a body.'

That is very annoying,' said David.
But I am glad I met your men, as I had
lost my way. I was coming to call upon
you, Captain Ross, if you will allow me.
My name is David Lindsay.'

Oh !' said the Laird, eyeing him again 
pretty sharply this time. ' You'd better 
come in and have some luncheon.'

David was relieved at the turn this last
sentence had taken, for there had been a
distinct pause in the middle of it, and from
the expression of the Laird's countenance, it
might have been expected that he was going
to suggest that his self-invited guest had
better go back to wherever he came from.
However, they walked to the house together
quite amicably, the Laird responding civilly
to David's remarks, but not making any on
his own account. David was introduced to
Mrs. Ross, who rather embarrassed him by
her profuse apologies for the scantiness of
the luncheon ; and after that meal, he accompanied
the Laird to his own den, and sat
for a time answering his questions about the
farming and sport at Ardvoira, in which his
host evinced considerable interest.

David was anxious to speak without delay
upon the business which had brought him to
Rossiee, but on making the attempt to do so
the Laird changed the subject so decidedly
that he was rather at a loss. At length he
rose from his seat. ' It is time for me to go,'

he said, ' but I can't do that, Captain Ross,
without explaining what I came for

The Laird took his pipe from his Hps, and
examined it. ' I am well enough pleased to
see you,' he said, 'if that's all.'

But it is not all,' said David. ' I didn't
come only to pay you a visit. Captain Ross.'

Oh !' said the Laird grimly. ' I thought
you did.'

He waited a moment, glancing furtively
at the young man as if to enjoy his discomfiture
; then he knocked the ashes out of his
pipe and rose also from his seat. ' Where
are you stopping ?' he asked.

'At the Star Hotel at St. Ethernans,'
answered David. ' It seems a good sort of
inn.'

You'd be better here. I'll send for your
traps.'

You are very kind,' said David, colouring
with pleasure. ' I shall be most happy '

I want the rabbits shot,' interrupted the
Laird. ' They're a perfect nuisance. Have
you brought your gun ?'

David replied in the affirmative.

You can take a day at them tomorrow.'

When the necessary orders were given,
the Laird strolled out with David to ' take a
look round the place,' in a spirit of perfect
friendliness and concord. He talked about
crops and cattle, and behaved to the young
man as if his coming were the most natural
thing in the world, and a matter of daily
occurrence. David could scarcely believe in
his own good fortune, and only hoped that
his host would soon of his own accord give
him an opportunity of speaking on the subject
which he had at heart. But Captain Ross
gave him no such encouragement. The
rabbits occupied them all the next day, and
David, being a good shot, found evident
favour in the Laird's eyes, for the latter,
though a thorough farmer, had in his heart
that respect for sport which befits a country
gentleman. They were thus apparently on
the best of terms, and with his hostess David
soon established no less friendly relations.

Euphemia had been rendered very nervous

by David Lindsay's sudden appearance, for
although she had now become in some degree
accustomed to her new position, having received
and returned the visits of her neighbours,
he was the first stranger who had
stayed in the house for more than an hour or
two since her marriage. In return for her
many anxious inquiries after his comfort,
David tried to talk to her upon other topics,
but the conversation invariably came round
to housekeeping, and especially to servants,
whose ways were a sore trouble and distress
to Mrs. Ross. She soon confided to David
many domestic perplexities which were altogether
beyond the range of his experience ;
but he, not wishing to be supposed ignorant
upon any subject, advised and laid down the
law with a gravity of manner which he had
picked up from Ponsonby, and which was
altogether unnatural to him.

Euphemia's greatest trial at present seemed
to be the misconduct of ' tableland.*

'Would you believe it, Mr. Lindsay,' she
said, * I have had to part with two gerrls

since I came here, and the one I have got
now is going away at the term. Two 
surely Fm not miscounting. No ! Bella
Ritchie was the first ; she was here when I
came. A smart gerry, I'll not deny, but she
gave me impudence the very first day !'

'You don't say so!' said David. 'I am
shocked to hear of such conduct.'

Mrs. Ross shook her head and sighed.

'She was an upsetting monkey, but they
are all alike, Mr. Lindsay, and that's the
truth. You see'  she lowered her voice
confidentially  ' I'm not acquaint with their
ways, and the Captain, he's hasty. But the
Captain will not allow of any impudence tome
 no, Mr. Lindsay, that's a thing he will
not put up with. It just sets him dancing
wild, and he gave Bella warning on the spot !
The housemaid, Janet Rigour's not so bad,
but then she always needs me at her tail ; '
and Euphemia sighed again.

Does she indeed, Mrs. Ross ?' said
David, rather bewildered.

You wouldn't believe the trouble I have

with her,' answered Euphemia. ' But I hope,
Mr. Lindsay, you're comfortable in your
room. I saw the sheets aired myself, and
although there was a wee bit out of the soap-dish,
I thought you'd maybe overlook it.'

David felt flattered by the proof of Mrs.
Ross's confidence which this conversation
evinced.

It took place in the evening, after the
shooting of the rabbits, and was interrupted
at length by the Laird's entrance. Euphemia's
whole manner then changed ; she became
silent, and retreating to an arm-chair near the
table, she began to smooth out her lilac silk
gown, glancing nervously at her husband for
approval.

When first they were married she had
annoyed the Laird by her humility and retiring
manner, and he had been at some pains
to direct her as to her behaviour. He had
strictly forbidden her to sit upon anything
smaller than an easy-chair, or to go to the
kitchen for what she wanted instead of ringing
the bell ; and, as she herself had told

David, was particular that the servants should
pay her proper respect. But somehow, poor
Euphemia always managed to say and do the
wrong thing, partly from nervousness, though
her husband, considering his temper, showed
wonderful patience and forbearance with her.

The next morning, at breakfast, Euphemia,
emboldened by the cheerfulness of her guest,
became quite lively and chatty ; the Laird,
on the contrary, appeared somewhat morose.

It was a brilliant autumn morning, and
David hazarded a remark that it was fine
weather for the harvest. The Laird only
grunted discontentedly in reply, so his wife
hastened to answer for him.

I am sure, Mr. Lindsay, it is that, and
although the turnips may be needing a drop
of rain, we cannot control the weather. Ita
fine thing to have a cheerful spirit. Is the
tea to your liking. Captain ? Take a wee
drop more cream to yourself now.'

No, thank you,' said the Laird shortly.

'What excellent tea yours is, Mrs. Ross,'
said David.

Indeed, Mr. Lindsay, I am very proud
you like it. The Captain is just extraordinary
partial to it, are you not. Captain V

No,' said the Laird.

Euphemia twisted her hands and smiled.
'Oh dear, dear!' said she. 'You've surely
risen on your wrong side this morning. This
very chest of tea, Mr. Lindsay,' she resumed,
if you'll believe me, was sent home by my
youngest brother Alice from India ; he's what
they call a tea-planter out there. They say
it's a kind of shrub it grows on, but you'll
know, Mr. Lindsay, being an Injun yourself.
There's surely nothing wrong with your egg.
Captain?' her voice taking a high note of
alarm, as the Laird pushed away his egg untasted.
' It's really a pity to boil the eggs if
you're not to eat them, when they're getting
scarce with the hens mounting, poor things,
and that bare, some of them, they're fair indelicate
to look upon. But your egg's quite
good if you'll only try '  drawing the rejected
egg towards her for examination.

Let it alone, will you ! ' growled the

VOL. II. c

Laird. 'It's perfectly rotten;' and hastily
finishing his breakfast, he strode out of the
room and banged the door.

It's a pity he's so cankered to-days observed
Euphemia mournfully, still looking
towards the door. ' It's just sometimes, Mr.
Lindsay, and think it's his stommick. He's
terribly gathered with his stommick, and
that's the truth. But don't let him put you
from the eggs, for they're really very fine.'

When his hostess had gone to her household
duties, David strolled out at the front-door,
and stood in the sunshine smoking
thoughtfully, and considering what he had
better do next. It was all very well to have
come here to stay with Elsie's father, and
apparently to enjoy his favour ; but it seemed
to him that he was no nearer the object of his
coming than at first. Some explanation must
be arrived at ; but to-day, if the Laird were
really indisposed, perhaps it would be injudicious
to hasten matters. As he stood
musing, Elsie's many loving descriptions of
her old home came into his mind, and he

looked round him to try and verify them
with his own eyes.

Certainly the place looked pleasant enough
on that sunny morning, for autumn is the
time when Scotland looks her best. There
had been an early touch of frost, and the air,
though still, was pleasantly bracing, and full
of the fresh smell of the sea. The grass,
where it was shaded from the sun, was still
white with dew and threaded with gossamers ;
the rowan trees hung red with berries ; and
the robins were twittering their autumn
songs from every bush and shrub. A late
grasshopper or two were audibly enjoying
the sunshine ; and from more than one distant
harvest-field the reaping-machines, sounding
like magnified grasshoppers, were busily at
work.

A heavy footstep was heard on the gravel,
and the Laird made his appearance.

I am going to the barley-field,' said he.

David walked beside him in silence, reflecting
the while that he might as well go
and see Aunt Grizel that day. He had promised

Elsie to make her acquaintance, and
in her he might perhaps find an ally and
supporter.

Accordingly he intimated his intention of
calling on the old lady that afternoon.

Eh ? I didn't know you knew her,' said
the Laird.

I haven't made her acquaintance yet,*
replied David, ' but I ought to, being a  a
connection, you know, and in the neighbourhood.'


She has got plenty of acquaintances, and
connections too,' said the Laird suspiciously.
It's not likely she'll want new ones, at her
time of life. But please yourself. You can
take the pony if you like.'

Thank you, very much, Laird,' said
David, 'but I think I'll walk.'

Miss Grizel received David Lindsay with
formal politeness, but her manner became
more gracious as soon as she fully understood
who he was. He explained to her for what
object he had come, and how he had been
received at Rossiee, and candidly asked her

advice. This pleased the old lady, who liked
to look upon a handsome young face ; she
thought him ' a fine open lad,' and her sympathies
were soon enlisted on behalf of the
young lovers. Still, she would not give
David too much encouragement, and only
advised him to tell the Laird everything, and
trust to time.

The interview was long, and when it was
over David did some other errands in St.
Ethernans, and returned to Rossiee in time
for dinner.

In the smoking-room that evening, while
he was meditating how to begin the attack,
which he was determined should come off
that night, the Laird anticipated him by
plunging directly into the subject.

I understand that you had some confounded
 some purpose in coming here } '

My purpose,* replied David, rising and
standing with his back against the mantelpiece,
' is connected with your daughter. I
came here to ask your consent to marry
her.'

You have spoken to her, have you ? '

Yes,' said David, ' I have spoken to her,
and I assure you that her happiness, as well
as mine, is involved '

You are talking nonsense. Can you
keep a wife ? for I don't see what you're
to keep her upon

David hesitated a little. 'At present,
certainly,' he said, ' I couldn't very well,
without help, support a wife in comfort ; but
if I once had your consent, all that might be
easily arranged.'

What is the use of talking in riddles ? '
growled the Laird. ' Who the deuce do you
expect help from, and what are your expectations
? '

General Lindsay has told me plainly that
he intends to make me his heir. This, of
course, is in confidence. Laird, and I think
he would be quite ready to help me now,
provided I married Elsie. Then there is
Ardvoira, as you know.'

'A very small property,' said the Laird.
What is the old man's age ? '

Eighty-six,' said David shortly. ' He's
a fine, hale old gentleman.'

Hum ! ' said the Laird. ' There'd be the
wife's jointure to come off it  same with the
General. You don't mention Corinzean ? '

\ I did not mention Corinzean,' answered
David, 'because the young fellow, the
Master, may live as long as I do  though
to be sure he's an invalid. But it's not a
thing I have any right to count upon.'

I wonder at that,' observed the Laird
sarcastically, 'since you and Elsie seem todo
nothing else but wait for dead men's
shoes. But whoever marries her needn't
expect much. Her mother's money is just
;2000, and it doesn't do more than keep
her in clothes. I don't know what she does
with them all, to be sure  it's her business.'

There was silence for a little while, after
which David said, ' Then, Laird, you have
no objection to our engagement, provided I
can furnish enough to keep Elsie in comfort
? '

Objections ? ' said the Laird, ' of course

I have objections. Why, the girl doesn't
know her own mind. Do you mean to say
she wants to go out to India with you ?'

Yes,' said David. 'Certainly she does.'

She's a fool,' said the Laird. ' She
wouldn't keep her health there a month.'
And, laying aside his pipe, he took up a
newspaper and read, as if determined to put
a stop to further conversation. David meanwhile
considered what argument he should
next employ, while appearing deeply engrossed
in the pages of the North British
Agriculturist,

After a long interval the Laird put down
his paper, refilled his pipe, and demanded
abruptly, ' What on earth do you want, a
young chap like you, lading yourself with
a wife ? Marriage plays the very mischief
with a man ; it's the greatest mistake he can
commit. No man should marry till he is
forty, and he is better to leave it alone
then.'

David laughed. ' It is too late to give
me that advice now, Laird,' said he. * If I

waited to ask Elsie till I was forty, she might
have taken some other fellow meanwhile.'

You had no business to ask her at all,
when you are not in a position to marry
her

David thought it more prudent to make
no answer, and the Laird sat a while watching
him furtively from under his shaggy
eyebrows.

I don't know what you think you see
in Elsie,' he said presently. ' She's a  a
washed-out thing. I don't suppose any one
would call her good-looking ? ' this with a
slightly questioning inflection, as though he
would rather like to be contradicted.

But the young man frowned ; the remark
did not please him. ' I don't want anybody
to call her good-looking,' he answered very
curtly.

I suppose you have the sense to see for
yourself that you can't marry just now, at any
rate,' said the Laird. ' You must just go
back to India and take your chance. If I
thought the girl would make herself miserable

about you  but I scarcely think that's
possible,' and he eyed David disparagingly.
What do your own people say to it ? '

My mother has not seen Elsie yet, and
your consent was the first thing to be obtained.
As to my stepfather I am not responsible
to him in any way.'

You expect nothing from your stepfather,
then?'

Certainly not ; I am quite independent
of him. If he provides for anybody it will
be for my brother.'

There is no objection, then, on their
part ? '

I am sure there will be none when once
I bring Elsie to see my mother.'

That's as much as to say she has objections
now. Why, God bless my soul, young
man ! ' said the Laird, bringing his hand
down on the table with some violence,
there's no occasion for the girl to go where
she's not wanted. She could always come
home, for the matter of that.'

She shall be made welcome wherever she

goes, if you trust her to me,' said David.
 This then is clear. Captain Ross  if I
obtain the necessary means, and my mother's
full consent, you don't withhold yours. I
shall go south tomorrow, and '

Wait a minute,' said the Laird.

Then followed a discussion of the amount
required to maintain a wife, on which subject
there was considerable difference of opinion.
David's proposal to marry upon 500 a year
was scornfully rejected by the Laird, who
intimated that ;soo was the smallest possible
income he could for a moment bring himself
to contemplate. ' Not that you'll get even
that just now,' he said, ' but I suppose you
can wait a year or two, if you're bent on
making fools of yourselves. '

Euphemia had naturally had her suspicions
as to the causes which had brought David
Lindsay to Rossiee, and though she had no
knowledge of the facts (for the Laird never,
if he could help it, talked to a woman on any
subject of importance), had nevertheless made
a pretty correct conjecture, and was overflowing

with curiosity. She ventured to ask
David a few leading questions about her
stepdaughter, having found out that he had
been staying at Chippingham.

She supposed that Elsie had become a
very grand young lady now ? she had heard
that her uncle, General Lindsay, was a
wealthy gentleman. Did not Mr. Lindsay
think her a beautiful gerry ? so genteel !

David admitted that he did.

And yet so simple,' continued Euphemia,
and so affectionate ! Such pretty letters as
she writes me ! Eh ! I hope she'll get a nice
husband.'

But David did not gratify her curiosity,
and finding him impenetrably reserved upon
this subject, Euphemia went to confide her
surmises to Marjorie, with whom she was on
familiar terms, although it was only on the
rather rare occasions when Marjorie was in a
good humour that the latter condescended to
gossip with her mistress.

I'll wager, Majore, there'll be a wedding
in the family some of these days. You'll see

that young gentleman has not come here for
nothlnof.'

Ay ? ' said Marjorie. ' Will he be courting'
Miss Elsie?'

Oh, I've no reason to say so, but I can
put two and two together, and I think it. I
just mentioned her name to him, to see
what he would say, and although he's very
discreet, and answered me as mim and as
prim  he turned as red as fire all over,' 
which was a slight departure from exact truth,
but had the effect of fully arousing Marjorie's
interest.

Ay ? ' she said again. * I would winder.
Aweel, he's a wise-like lad, and the Captain's
reel ta'en up wi' him.'

And what a handsome gentleman ! ' exclaimed
Euphemia. ' Eh, Marjorie ! what a
noble presence ! '

He's no ill to look upon,' replied the
less enthusiastic Marjorie. ' Miss Elsie will
have nae need to think shame for him,
for that matter, if his inward parts be
conforming.'

D'ye think the Captain s very fond of his
daughter, Marjorie ? ' inquired Euphemia.

'Ay is he ! ' was the emphatic reply, ' I've
warrant he thinks there's few can compare
with her.'

Euphemia's countenance fell, for there was
a lurking jealousy of Elsie in her heart, and
she would have liked to suppose that her
husband did not care for his daughter in the
least. She sighed wearily, and, as Marjorie
did not seem disposed for further conversation,
she left the kitchen far less briskly than
she had entered it.

Thus David, having won favour at Rossiee
from all whose good opinion was worth cultivating,
left the place well satisfied, on the
whole, with his reception.

Thou hast never in thy life
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy ;
When she (poor hen !) fond of no second brood,
Has chucked thee to the wars, and safely home,
Loaded with honour.'

Lady Eleanor Fitzgerald had an afternoon
In the week on which she received company.
It was a penance, she used to tell her intimate
friends, and really she thought it right to
practise some sort of penance. Some people
go to church on saints' days, and some people
eat fish on Fridays, and, if they found themselves
the better for it, she saw no reason
why they should not. But, for her part, she
would receive company on Thursdays, and
do her duty to the neighbourhood, however
much it bored her.

On one particularly wet Thursday afternoon
in October, Lady Eleanor was sitting,

beautifully dressed and very gracious, listening
to the conversation of the Reverend
Cecil Beaumont, a young curate, who was
the only visitor as yet announced.

Yes, a great change,' said Mr. Beaumont,
who had but lately come to the neighbourhood.
'At Gaston, where my late curacy was, I
had the entire charge of six thousand souls.
It is a great responsibility.'

Oh, but you could not be really responsible
for their souls, could you ? ' said Lady
Eleanor. ' Still, it must have been a dreadful
wear and tear. Then you like this better ? '

The curate was proceeding to explain how
he actually was responsible for the souls of
his former congregation, for which charge he
felt himself quite competent, and did not mind
it in the least, when the door opened, and
another young man walked in unannounced.

My dear David,' said Lady Eleanor,
rising, * where have you come from ? Let
me introduce you to Mr. Beaumont. My
son, Mr. Lindsay. Have you just come from
Scotland ?'

David did not look quite pleased at finding
a stranger there, but Mr. Beaumont did not
seem to think it at all necessary to cut his
visit short ; and when the bell rang again,
and Mrs. and Miss Freeman were announced,
David looked reproachfully at his mother and
sighed. She, however, received her visitors
with the most unruffled sweetness, and began
to talk to Mrs. Freeman, while Mr. Beaumont,
seating himself by Miss Edith, began
a conversation which was evidently highly
interesting to that young lady.

David now meditated an escape, which,
however, the entrance of tea prevented, ashe
felt it incumbent on him to hand the cups,
and, as more and more visitors poured in, his
impatience increased. He knew no one besides
the Freemans ; so, taking advantage of
Mr. Beaumont's temporary absence, David
seated himself by Edith, and drew her attention
to the curate, who was benevolently
supplying the wants of a deaf old lady, and
vainly trying to find out whether she took
sugar or not. The old lady had an ear-vol.

II. D

trumpet, of which she had given Mr. Beaumont
the wrong end, and was impatiently
waiting, with head turned away and the
mouthpiece to her ear, for the expected communication.
Edith giggled and blushed, and
put on so many little airs that David wondered
where such a young country-bred girl could
have acquired them all ; inwardly comparing
her fluttering, affected manner with Elsie's
perfect composure and simplicity. However,
he found Edith sufficiently amusing to talk
to ; and when Mr. Beaumont came back he
still took a pleasure in keeping the place he
had usurped, and watching the curate's blank
and rather astonished look when he found
that the young lady had no longer a word ora
glance to bestow upon him. He was a
good-looking, even a handsome man, this
same Mr. Beaumont, and Edith had a very
genuine appreciation of him ; but she thought
a little flirtation with David Lindsay would
do her admirer no harm, while it afforded
pleasing pastime for herself.

David's retribution came, however, when

many of the guests departed, and the curate
with them, but the Freemans still sat on.
He could not shake himself free of Edith,
who wearied him with her silly little speeches
and grimaces ; he began even to think her
ugly, and to wonder whether any girl had
ever had such large fat cheeks before ; and
when they had at last taken leave he demanded
of his mother, with more irritation
than he usually displayed, what could induce
her to have all those infernal people calling
at the same time ?

My dear, how could I know you were
coming to-day, if you don't even take the
trouble to write a line ? Where have you
been, David ? Have you come from Ard-moira,
or where ?'

'From Ardvoira, no!' said David. 'I
had to stay a tremendous time there, though.
I came from Chippingham to-day.'

From Chippingham ? What were you
doings there ?'

Ratifying my engagement, as Aunt Caroline
calls it,' said David, with a half-embarrassed

laugh. ' I went to Rossiee, mother 
I wrote you that, you know  and the old
Laird there is quite agreeable, conditionally,
of course, and all that.'

Lady Eleanor was indignant.

I wonder, David, I really wonder how
you can be so undutiful and unfeeling! I
don't expect much feeling or much consideration
from you  I never have.'

I don't know why you shouldn't,' put in
David sot to voce.

But that you should go and do the exact
opposite of all I wished, after I've planned
and considered and had sleepless nights for
years thinking about your future, is a little
too much even for me to bear ! And now
you come and coolly tell me about it, as if
you had done something rather clever !'

Mother dear, I didn't want you to have

sleepless nights ' began David ; but Lady

Eleanor was not to be pacified.

No !' she said ; ' do not touch me or come
near me, it is mere hypocrisy. You have
behaved disgracefully, and if you marry that

girl I will never forgive you. So now do as
you like.'

David went away, deeply hurt and mortified,
and although the afternoon was closing
in, and the rain was falling heavily, he walked
out without either greatcoat or umbrella,
feeling himself an ill-used martyr, and rather
pleased than otherwise at getting wet. After
he had walked a mile or two, however, his
conscience told him that his mother's reproaches
were not altogether unjust, and
that he had certainly not treated her as she
was accustomed to be treated. In his eagerness
to win Elsie he had passed his mother
over, dealing first with the obstacles which
seemed to him most formidable, and fancying
that her consent would be easily gained, and
that she might be talked over at any time.
He had sent her short and hasty notes in
answer to her letters, or else had not written
at all ; and on leaving Rossiee he had gone
straight to Chippingham, taking Ponsonby
with him, without giving her an idea where
he was to be found.

He might have stayed on at the Elms
indefinitely, in the joy of his reunion with
the object of his affections, had not Mrs.
Lindsay had the good sense to dismiss him
somewhat peremptorily as soon as she found
out that Lady Eleanor had not yet been consulted.
Still, both David and Elsie had a
good deal to go through from Aunt Caroline,
whose sympathy with them had taken the
form of moral exhortations of a distressingly
public nature, mingled with tears and blessings.
The General, too, who, unhappily for
them, had once met the lovers going out fora
walk, was always pointing to the river and
saying, ' Down the burn, Davie.' It was
his one joke, and he never tired of it, but
repeated it daily, and sometimes two or three
times a day, chuckling with delight at his
own wit. All this, however, David had
endured for his love's sake with surprising
fortitude, suppressing his inward irritation
till he reached home, and then venting it
upon his mother, which certainly was neither
reasonable nor wise.

David returned home in a very proper
frame of mind, seeing his fault and desirous
of making amends ; but Lady Eleanor had
said too much in her anger to be quickly
reconciled again. She would hardly speak
to her son all that evening, and averted her
eyes and curled her nose whenever David
approached, as if he were some loathsome
sight. It was vain to look for any sort of
sympathy from Mr. Fitzgerald ; he did not
even perceive that there was anything amiss,
but was anxious to have his stepson's opinion
upon some sherry which he had just got.
David did not like it and said so, and Mr.
Fitzgerald then held forth at some length
upon the evils of smoking, with which young
men of the present day vitiate their tastes
and destroy their digestions.

Lionel had gone to Oxford. Had he been
at home things might have been better, but
David had never got on with his mother
as Lionel did, and did not understand her
so well. Until lately, David had thought
little about understanding any one ; he had

found the world and the people in it pleasant,
in his careless, happy-go-lucky way, and his
affections had never been very strongly called
out. He was very fond of his mother and
of Lionel, but he knew that they were almost
sufficient to one another, while he was a less
favoured third. This he had always accepted
quiet and without the least resentment;
but when he fell in love with Elsie it was a
revelation to him, and he began to discern
many things which had never before entered
his head. He began to see with Elsie's eyes,
and to feel keenly things which he would
have left unnoticed but for the thought of
her. As he sat in the evening pretending
to read, but in reality watching his mother
as she turned over the pages of her novel,
it occurred to him for the first time that if
he could not marry Elsie at once and take
her out to India with him, her life at home
might be very disagreeable, supposing she
did not get on with his mother. This was
an alarming thought, but it was quite possible
that she might not. He had looked upon

Alkerton as a place where Elsie might take
refuge at any time when she got tired of
Aunt Caroline, and he now began to see
that he had been decidedly too rash in his
conclusions. His mother was in reality
neither obstinate nor unforgiving, but David
only looked at the outside just then.

Lady Eleanor possessed the kind of beauty
which is almost more striking in a middle-aged
woman than in a girl, so classically
perfect were her features, and so graceful
every line of her figure, which time had only
made more rounded and more stately. She
had more expression in her face than perhaps
really belonged to her character, and there
was often a melancholy earnestness in her
gaze which was not indicative of anything
in particular. A poetical or imaginative mind
might have seen all manner of deep and
pathetic meanings in her dark beautiful eyes
and in the perfect curves of her lips ; David,
who was not poetical, merely thought that
his mother looked rather out of temper, and
that she was not at all the kind of person

calculated to set a timid girl at her ease ;
moreover, she showed no signs whatever of
relenting towards him.

David's night's rest was greatly disturbed
by these reflections, nor did the situation
appear much more hopeful in the morning.
However, his natural cheerfulness prevailed,
and he began to comfort himself by thinking
that his mother's ill-humour had probably
passed away, or if not, that it would in time.
He resolved to make amends to her by his
agreeable behaviour. 'What's the use of
pulling a long face ?' thought he ; and in a
determinedly cheerful manner he began to
whistle scraps of various melodies, as was his
usual custom while dressing. Lionel was
wont to say that his brother's whistling drove
him distracted, and that he whistled out of
tune ; but then Lionel was rather proud of his
sensitive ear, and David did not allow himself
to be in the least influenced by this criticism.

He came down rather late to find Mr.
Fitzgerald sitting alone at breakfast, and
inquired where his mother was.

She has heard that your brother Lionel
is ill,' answered Mr. Fitzgerald in a resigned
voice, ' and it seems she cannot eat her
breakfast. I do wish, David, that some of
your family would learn to shut the door.
Your mother has just left it open, and you
know that to eat while sitting in a draught is
most pernicious.'

Lady Eleanor presently returned, looking
so pale and anxious that David's heart
smote him. He greeted her affectionately,
and asked for particulars about his brother.
Lionel did not seem to be very ill, but he
was suffering from an attack of low fever,
and it was impossible to bring him home
or even to remove him in his present state.
Lady Eleanor was undecided what to do, as
she knew she was of little use as a nurse, and
yet she could not bear the suspense of being
away from him.

David at once volunteered to go and look
after Lionel, which would both please his
mother and be a relief to his own mind.
He promised to take the very best care of

his brother, and send daily bulletins. To
this Lady Eleanor consented gladly, even
saying it was a mercy David arrived when
he did, and that he was the only person she
could have trusted to send. She hovered
about him anxiously whilst he prepared for
his journey, suggesting that he should take
with him all manner of curious and unlikely
articles of food for the use of the patient.

And be sure you write every day, David,
and send for me at once if he should be
worse.'

'Yes, yes, I will,' said David, 'but cheer
up, mother, depend upon it he is not so bad
as all that. And, mother,' stopping her as
she was going out of the room, ' I am sorry
if I annoyed you that time. Of course I
ought to have written oftener. But you are
not put out with me now, are you ?'

Lady Eleanor looked at him blankly fora
minute, as if not quite knowing what he
meant, then she pulled her hand out of his
and turned away half angrily.

It is very hard, it is enough to break anyone's

heart, to have sons Hke mine. There
is Lionel, who never disobeyed me, dying,
most likely, at that detestable place, and you,

who never do a single thing I ask you '

Here Lady Eleanor broke off and began to
sob, to David's great concern and alarm, for
he had seldom seen his mother in tears, and
did not, as Lionel would have done, at once
jump to the conclusion that it was entirely
because she had had no breakfast.

'Mother,' said David, 'for heaven's sake
don't do that. I can't help being well and
Lionel ill, you know (I don't believe there is
much the matter with him either), and I
never disobeyed you but once, and that's
done now, and what's the use of going on
about it ? You would not have me go back
to Elsie and say I had changed my mind,
would you ? '

It would be better if I were dead and in
my grave,' said Lady Eleanor, ' and then my
children could marry as many beggars as
they choose.'

She dried her eyes and left the room,

and when David next saw her she was so
much more cordial that he again ventured to
plead his cause, this time with more success.

Oh, David, don't tease me about it,' she
said. ' How can I think about such things
with Lionel perhaps in danger ? but  yes
very well. I'll see the girl since you are
so set on it, and if she Is a lady and all
that '

Of course she is a lady,' Interrupted
David hotly. ' Do you suppose I don't
know a lady when I see one ?'

I don't know,' said his mother, ' many
young men do not.'

Well, you will like her when you see
her; she Is quite different from other girls
not like the girl you had here yesterday,
you know.'

Which girl ? The one you flirted so
much with ?'

I never flirt,' said David solemnly. He
gazed fixedly at his boots and apparently
found an Idea in them, for he said with a
complete change of manner 

Mother, my ring  you have it, you
know ; will you give it to me now ?'

'What ring?'

The ring my godmother, old Lady
Corinzean, left me, and that you said you
would keep for my wife.'

And you would give it to Elsie Ross ?
Ridiculous !'

Yes, certainly ; for no one else shall be
my wife. Please give it to me, mother.'

I shall do nothing of the sort.'

But it is my own,' said David.

David, I am perfectly disgusted with
you ! So grasping that is what I dislike.
It was your disposition from a baby. It is
time the dogcart came round.' She glanced
nervously at the clock.

It won't be round for five minutes,' said
David. ' Do give me my ring, mother, it
would not be much trouble.'

Lady Eleanor, sighing, went to her room,
followed by her son. She unlocked her
dressing-case and took out an old-fashioned
diamond ring, quaintly set, and made to fit

a very slender finger. * You will have to
get it enlarged and it will spoil the setting
she observed despondently, as she gave it
to David without looking at it.

David regarded it with complacency, and
put it in his waistcoat pocket with great care.
I should say it would just about fit,' said he.

I wish Lady Corinzean had never left
it to you, David,' said Lady Eleanor. ' Nothing
brings good fortune that comes from
Corinzean.'

Mother, are you superstitious . ' said
David. ' I would not have believed it of
you.'

He took a very affectionate leave of her,
let us do him the justice to say he would
have done so in any case,  and departed,
promising to send the very earliest report
of Lionel's state of health.

And but he's something stain'd
With grief, that's beauty's canker, thou might'st call him
A goodly person.'

Elsie, meanwhile, was leading a very happy
and cheerful life at Chippingham. She had
seen her lover again, and was allowed to
correspond with him. Her engagement
was sanctioned by her father and her Aunt
Caroline, and she felt quite peaceful and at
rest from anxiety. David's visit had been
brief, and Elsie, now that their engagement
was public, and their behaviour the theme
of every one's conversation, had become so
shy with her lover, that he found their interview
somewhat unsatisfactory at first.
But this wore off, and in the long uninterrupted
talk which Aunt Caroline was so
careful they should have, they learnt to

VOL. II. E

know more of each other's characters and
thoughts.

Ponsonby soon became a great favourite
at the Ens, especially with Mrs. Lindsay.
The General, although he found him a
pleasant enough companion, said he was
a queer foreign sort of chap,' by which he
probably meant to express a certain Inward
contempt, or at least disapproval, of a man
who spent his time In painting pictures,
travelling In foreign countries, and learning
many languages, when he might easily settle
down In his own country, devote himself to
field sports, and become a justice of the
peace. Mrs. Lindsay did not, any more
than her husband, approve of the foreign
countries, which were either Mahometan or
(still worse) Popish, yet she was charmed by
Ponsonby's extreme courtesy and attention
to herself. She admired the Intellect which
beamed from his eye, and the artistic feeling
which she perceived to reside in the points
of his long supple fingers.

Ponsonby was less tall than David Lindsay,

and much more slightly made. He was dark
in complexion and rather foreign looking, not
handsome, and yet there was a picturesque
and even tragic air about him which caused
him to be a good deal admired by ladies,
with whom his particularly unassuming and
polite manners also helped to render him
very popular.

Even to his friend there was not, in public
at least, any of the easy familiarity of address
which David employed towards him. David
had various appellations for him, according
to circumstances, and he answered to them
all. Sometimes, but rarely, he was ' ,'
generally 'Tommy' or 'Alphonse,'
although in truth the name he had received
at his baptism was neither Alphonse nor
Thomas, but the very ordinary and harmless
one of William.

Mrs. Lindsay was fond of holding long
conversations with Ponsonby on religious
questions, and although she could never
quite find out what particular creed Mr.
Ponsonby professed, she saw in him a deeply

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

religious nature and an ardent desire for enlightenment.
Together they deplored the
world and its corruptions, and this was not
hypocrisy on Ponsonby's part ; for, though
he listened partly out of deference, he had
an unaffectedly serious turn of mind. Besides,
he really liked the old lady. He was,
like herself, a student of human character,
and Mrs. Lindsay's eccentricities were a
source of unfailing delight to him.

There was only one person in the house
who, although she could not help liking him,
could not get over a latent suspicion of Mr.
Ponsonby, and that was Miss Maynard.
She had heard somehow that he had been
educated abroad, and was in some way mixed
up with a Jesuit college. It was not perfectly
clear to the good lady whether he
had actually studied at this establishment, or
whether he only lived in the same street, but,
at all events, the proximity was very dangerous,
and she could not rid herself of the idea
that he might possibly be a Jesuit in disguise.
She had hinted these suspicions to Mrs.

Lindsay, by whom she had been distinctly
snubbed, and reproved for uncharitableness ;
still (as she afterwards told Elsie in confidence),
she felt like one who saw her
dearest friend walking blindfolded on the
brink of a precipice, and dared not cry out,
lest she should impel her to rush forward to
her destruction. She implored Elsie never
to become a 'pervert,' nor to allow David to
become one, and not to be deceived by the
outward gloss of their friend's manner, for
Jesuits, she had been told, are always polished
and agreeable. Elsie in vain assured her
that Ponsonby was not even a Roman
Catholic, for had he not listened calmly
whilst Aunt Caroline denounced the errors
of that faith } and had he not gone to church
with her every Sunday ? But Miss Maynard
only shook her head and sighed, and said
that in their system the end justified .the
means, and that a short walk barefoot was
held to be a sufficient atonement for a long
course of deception and fraud. Miss Maynard
was not so much alarmed for her two

A LILY AMONG THORNS part i.

young cousins, Emma and Sophy, as Mr.
Ponsonby evidently preferred Elsie's society
to theirs ; still she thought it right to give
them a warning against the wiles of Jesuitism,
which was not without its effect upon those
young damsels' minds. They were quite
puzzled by Mr. Ponsonby, and did not know
whether to like him or not, he was so different
from the young men of their acquaintance.
Sophy, indeed, declared that she perceived a
deadly fascination ' about him, and that the
cold glitter of his eye caused her to shudder
from head to foot ; but Emma, who was less
imaginative, did not profess to experience
these sensations, and only stood rather in
awe of Mr. Ponsonby, whom she did not
dare to fall in love with, as she might have
done with another young man in the same
circumstances.

Ponsonby liked what he saw of Elsie, and
praised her to David's heart's content, while
telling his friend that it was merely his usual
good luck which had thrown Elsie in his
way, and that he need not take any credit

to himself for a knowledge of human nature
which he did not possess.

When ]airs. Lindsay discovered that David
had not properly acquainted his mother with
his engagement, she was extremely shocked
and agitated, and commanded the undutiful
son to go home the next day. Ponsonby,
who was making a water-colour painting of
a spot some miles up the river, where the
autumn tints were especially beautiful, was
earnestly entreated to remain and finish it.
In another fortnight the Elms party would be
broken up, Emma and Sophy returning home,
and the other members, namely, the General
and Mrs. Lindsay, Miss Maynard, Elsie,
Howell, William, Parkins, the three dogs, and
Trotter, with the carriage and horses, would
all migrate to St. Leonardss for change of air.

An annual visit to the seaside during the
fall of the leaf was considered essential to
health by the inhabitants of Chippingham ;
at which time a great beating of carpets and
sweeping of chimneys prevailed In the neighbourhood.
Elsie, once observing these proceedings

at the house of a neighbour, spoke
of them casually as the ' autumn house-cleaning,'
as distinguished from the 'spring
cleaning,' customary in her country; but her
remark was received with such evident disapproval
that she never again ventured to
allude to the subject. Mrs. Lindsay and
Miss Maynard smiled indulgently, indeed,
while they shook their heads, as who should
say, ' Dear, ingenuous child !' but the cleaning
of a house was manifestly regarded as rather
an improper subject, not to be mentioned
before gentlemen.

The lovers found time for a long talk on
the morning of David's departure. Elsie
was very apprehensive lest his relations
should disapprove of her.

Tell me what your mother is like, David.
Shall I be afraid of her or not ?'

Afraid ? oh no ! there is nothing to be
afraid of,' said David. 'She is a very good
woman, and if she once takes to you, which
she is certain to do, you will get on with her
like a house on fire.'

By good do you mean religious ? ' inquired
Elsie.

Well, she is religious,' said David thoughtfully
; ' yes, decidedly, I should say ; she is
always talking about principle, but religionis
not her forte exactly, you know. She is
not like Aunt Caroline,' he added with a
laugh. ' But you have no reason to be afraid
of her, my Elsie ; her bark is worse than her
bite.'

With this vague description Elsie was
obliged to be content ; but inwardly she
was sorry to hear Lady Eleanor ' barked '
at all, it did not sound encouraging.

I am afraid you ought to have gone
home sooner, David, I have kept you away
from your mother for so long, she will not be
pleased at that'

Oh, she won't mind,' said David ; * she
has got Lionel. At least she had before he
went to Oxford.'

But Lionel is not home from India on
leave.'

No, but you must know, Elsie,' and

David turned to her very seriously, * it is a
very extraordinary and curious thing  I can't
account for it myself  but my mother actually
prefers Lionel to me !'

If Elsie was utterly astounded by this
statement, she, at all events, kept her wonder
to herself, and the two fell to wondering when
they would meet again. David said he would
take a run to St. Leonardss as soon as they
were settled there, and, in the meantime, he
was glad that Ponsonby was staying on at
the Elms.

He is a real good fellow, Elsie, and one
that is to be trusted, though he does humbug
Aunt Caroline a little. I should not have
thought Ponsonby was much in her line,' he
continued meditatively; ' he is not a marrying
man, you understand.'

Why not ? ' asked Elsie. * Hasn't he any
money ? '

Money is always the first thing women
think of,' observed David severely. ' No,
that is not the reason. He had a disappointment
in his youth.'

Ponsonby was now thirty, which David
looked upon as rather an advanced age.

Ah, poor man ! ' said Elsie feelingly, ' Is
that the reason he looks so melancholy,
David ? And what happened to him ? '

David laughed at this idea. ' He doesn't
look melancholy, bless you ! it's the way his
moustache grows. He does It because he
thinks It makes him look like a Van Deck.
He's an awfully vain fellow. Oh, he has got
over his disappointment now, I hope ; but
the young woman behaved very badly to
him, and I don't suppose he would care
to have anything to do with women again,
although he makes pretty speeches and
that, no end. There isn't a greater humbug
living.'

David, I think it is very unkind of you
to take away your friend's character behind
his back. / think him extremely nice.'

My darling, I only want to warn you,
because you don't know the world, you are
so young. You might naturally think, when
a fellow pays you all kinds of compliments,

that he means something, whereas, you know,
it is just his way of speaking.'

Nonsense, David ! I should not think
he meant anything ; besides, he has not even
paid me any. Tell me about the girl who
behaved badly.'

The girl,' said David, ' was, I am sorry
to say, a cousin of mine. Rose Mortimer.
She was engaged to Ponsonby,  would be
engaged, for her parents did not wish it, 
and when it came to the point she threw him
over without a word of explanation, and
married a rich Yorkshire baronet, whom she
could not have cared a straw about. I hear
he leads her an awful life now, and it serves
her jolly well right,' he concluded vindictively.


Then both their lives are spoilt  what a
sad thing ! ' said Elsie. ' Do you know her
well, David?'

I knew her when I was a boy ; I never
saw her after she was grown up. She was a
nice girl then, and awfully pretty, but she
changed, I suppose. If I thought jj/(? would

ever change to me, Elsie '  and so the pair
talked on, exchanging vows of unalterable
fidelity, until they were called in by Aunt
Caroline, and David had to make his adieux
hastily, and start off to catch the train.

A day or two later David wrote from
Oxford, where he had gone to nurse his
brother Lionel through an illness, which,
though never severe, proved to be rather
tedious. The doctors prescribed sea-air for
the patient as soon as he was well enough to
be moved, and no health resort seemed to
David so desirable in every respect as St.
Leonardss, where he hoped soon to join the
party from the Elms.

Vain is the hope, by any force or skill
To stem the Current of a woman's will ;
For if she will, she will, you may depend on't,
And if she won't, she won't, and there's an end on't.'

About a week after David's departure the
household at the Elms was once more
thrown Into a state of agitation by the news
that Canon Gosset, a somewhat celebrated
preacher, was about to arrive at the Rectory,
and would deliver a missionary sermon In
Chlpplngham parish church the following
Sunday afternoon. Ernest Maynard was
now hardly ever mentioned, having dropped
entirely out of Aunt Caroline's favour. Within
a fortnight after his rejection by Mrs.
Lindsay on behalf of her niece, he had proposed
to the sister of his friend Mr. Talmud
Brooks, and been accepted. The marriage

was to take place almost immediately ; and
Mrs. Lindsay, though she sent a handsome
wedding-present to the bride, treated her
former favourite with marked coldness, and
was determined that her stay at St. Leonardss
should be prolonged till after the arrival of
the newly-married couple at their home.

The news of Canon Gosset's advent caused
the greatest excitement to Mrs. Lindsay,
Miss Maynard, and the Dales, and many
were the speculations as to whether the holy
man would have fair weather for his journey,
how much luggage he would bring, and
whether or not his host, Mr. Broadway,
would meet him at the station. Even the
General was not uninterested in these discussions,
while Ponsonby entered into the subject
with the greatest zeal, and feigned to
consider it of the last importance. The
excitement being so general, Elsie was not
alarmed when, a day or two afterwards, as
she was coming in from the garden with
Ponsonby, Miss Maynard darted past her ina
breathless condition, and on reaching the

drawing-room, looked wildly around, as if
she did not exactly know what she was
doing.

My dear Mr. Ponsonby,' she said, in
answer to that young man's fervently expressed
hope that no evil had befallen the
Canon, ' I trust not ; but so many things
happen at once, it is quite bewildering. To
think of Canon Gosset and Lady Eleanor
Fitzgerald arriving at Chippingham on the
same day  perhaps in the very same train !
and then to be going to St. Leonardss on
Wednesday  it almost takes one's breath
away ! '

Canon Gosset and Lady Eleanor Fitzgerald
going to St. Leonardss on Wednesday!*
said Ponsonby. ' My dear Miss Maynard,
how shocking ! *

Miss Maynard clasped her hands over her
eyes. ' What can I have said ? ' she exclaimed.
'It is we who go to St. Leonardss
on Wednesday, but Lady Eleanor Fitzgerald
intends coming here  of that there can be no
doubt whatever.'

Has she written to say so ?' inquired
Elsie, looking rather frightened.

Yes, dear child, she has written to your
aunt, and proposes to come from Saturday
till Monday. Hark! do I not hear your
aunt's voice .'

She is calling me,' said Elsie, and disappeared
accordingly.

Mrs. Lindsay was not particularly pleased
to find that her intended announcement had
been forestalled, and that her niece was
already aware of Lady Eleanor's proposed
visit. However, she still improved the occasion
to the best of her power.

She comes, my love, be sure, with a
purpose  and that purpose to judge of yotti
suitability as a wife for her first-born son !'

Elsie gasped, as well she might, at this
alarming intimation. ' Did she say! she
asked faintly, ' anything about me ?'

She did not absolutely mention your
name in words, my love,' replied her aunt
more soothingly. ' Here is the substance
of her note.'

VOL. II. F

The note, of which Mrs. Lindsay read
every word, was as follows : 

Dear Caroline  Would it inconvenience
you to receive me at the Elms from Saturday
till Monday ? I am in town for a couple of
days' shopping, and would go to you on my
way home. Thanks for your last letter,
which, if you can have me, we will discuss
when we meet.  Your gaff.

Eleanor Fitzgerald.

'Pes.  I fancy there is a train which
arrives at Chippingham about four o'clock.'

I need not tell you, my dear Elsie,' said
Aunt Caroline, folding up the note, 'that
you must be very careful in your behaviour.
Remember that in Lady Eleanor you see
one who is, we trust, one day to be united
to you by the ties of a very near and
dear relationship. You will see in her much
that may sadden, much that we could wish
otherwise, but, my precious child, beware of
judging. If she repels your affection, and
treats you with slights and coldness, you

must still endeavour to be cheerful and submissive.'


Will she do that ?' asked Elsie. ' David
said she was a person nobody need be afraid
of.'

'Dear, good David!' said Mrs. Lindsay,
shaking her head with a sad smile, ' he ever
sees the silver lining in the cloud.'

With suchlike exhortations did Mrs.
Lindsay seek to arm her niece's mind for
the approaching trial, and gave her so many
injunctions to mind what she was about, and
not to offend Lady Eleanor by this, that, or
the other, that by the time the visitor arrived
she had nearly reduced the unhappy girl to a
state of imbecility, brought on by terror.

Great was the commotion which now
prevailed in the house, and neither Miss
Maynard, the Dales, nor Elsie, dared venture
into the drawing - room while Mrs.
Lindsay was holding long conferences therewith
Ponsonby ; the length of whose countenance,
and the glare which Mrs. Lindsay
instantly turned upon any one entering the

room, being sufficient to strike terror into
the boldest spirit.

And now arose an all-important question.
What carriage should be sent to meet Lady
Eleanor at the station ? The brougham or
the landau ? Should it be open or closed ?
The season was October, the weather unusually
warm; yet, on the other hand, it
was apt to get chilly towards evening.

*You had better order a fly for the servants
and the luggage,' cried the General,
bursting into the room. ' Send down about
it at once, and you can send down after
luncheon to see that it is not forgotten. I
will speak to How' 11 '

My precious Henry,' said Mrs. Lindsay,
I do not think Eleanor will bring any
attendants except her maid ; and her
boxes, if bulky, can be fetched later.'

Eh, what ?' said the General. ' You
can't tell  better be on the safe side. And
what carriage are you going to send ?'

That is the question which is occupying
us,' replied his wife, ' but we have no means

of knowing whether Eleanor prefers an open
carnage or a closed one.'

I remember David once said that driving
in a closed carriage made his mother
sick,' said Elsie, who had not liked to mention
this fact sooner, as it happened to be
Mrs. Lindsay's carriage of which Lady-eleanor
had complained to her son. At
this statement a murmur went round the
room. ' Sick,' they whispered in awestruck
tones  'sick, Elsie says  her son says  it
makes her sick.'

The open carriage, then ! ' said the General,
with his hand on the bell. ' Howell '

But,' said Mrs. Lindsay, ' if it should
rain.'

The General took his hand off the bell,
and everybody looked out of the window.

It looks doubtful, to be sure,' said the
General ; ' which way is the wind ?*

'It is an east wind,' said Elsie, who had
been out.

Mrs. Lindsay looked up sharply ; she had
not wished the open carriage to be sent at

Elsie's bidding. ' Think before you speak,
dear,' she said gravely. ' Spring is the
season for east winds.'

At this juncture, Miss Maynard, fired
with ambition to distinguish herself, jumped
up and left the room hastily. In a minute
she returned breathless, but triumphant.

It will not rain, dear,' she said, sinking
into a chair near Mrs. Lindsay. ' I have
asked Howell, he says it will not.'

Mrs. Lindsay did not look pleased, but
rang the bell. ' Send Howell to me at once.'

She now demanded of her prime minister
his opinion of the weather, while the company
waited eagerly for the oracle to speak.
Howell stepped to the barometer which
hung in the passage, not far from the
drawing-room door, tapped it, looked out
of the window, and came back to his
mistress.

There may be rain before long, m', but
I should say it will 'old up this afternoon.'

It is extremely chilly, however,' said Mrs.
Lindsay. ' To me '  she shivered and drew

her shawl closer round her  ' there is quite a
peculiar chill in the atmosphere.'

'Wind is in the least, m'/ observed
Howell.

In the east at this season !' exclaimed
Mrs. Lindsay. 'And your master just gone
out!'

Everybody shuddered.

Did you tell him of the direction of the
wind ? ' inquired Mrs. Lindsay sternly.

'Ho no,' replied Howell with perfect
composure. ' Master will take no arm, m'.
Least wind is 'wealthy at the fall of the leaf
hall the medical gentlemen '11 tell you
that, m'.'

Mrs. Lindsay waved her hand with dignity.
' The closed carriage, if you please, to
meet the down train at 4.20.' And so the
discussion terminated.

At half-past four in the afternoon all were
assembled in the drawing-room, and every face
was full of expectation. Emma and Sophy
stationed themselves at the passage window,
to catch the first glimpse of the carriage.

There it is ! ' they cried with one breath ;
*just turning into the drive'  and Mrs.
Lindsay hastened into the hall.

Oh, Elsie ! do come and look ! ' cried
Sophy, running back. * Howell has opened
the door ; she is just stepping out ! '

She has got a hat on, I do believe ! '
cried Emma from her post of observation,
and Sophy flew back to verify this astounding
fact with her own eyes.

'This,' said Ponsonby, *is indeed an exciting
moment.'

I can't see her now,' said Sophy, disappointed.
' She has gone in, but here
comes the maid  she has a maid  no one
else  now they are taking down the box 
only one box, that is very little ! and a bundle
of '

Hush, Sophy ! ' said Emma, ' she will
hear you'  for Sophy had raised her voice
in announcing these discoveries for the benefit
of those in the drawing-room.

Lady Eleanor was by this time in the
hall, and the two girls had barely time to get

back to the drawing-room before she entered,
Mrs. Lindsay affectionately clinging to her
arm, and the General, full of hospitality,
bringing up the rear.

I n the midst of her alarm at the first sight
of David's mother, Elsie noticed that Lady
Eleanor was much younger and handsomer
than she had expected ; she looked almost
too young to be the mother of a man of
David's age, whereas Elsie had been accustomed
to regard her as a sort of contemporary
of Aunt Caroline. Just at that
moment the newcomer appeared to be rather
tired and cross. She turned her dark eyes
languidly on the three young ladies who
were presented to her, without seeming to
notice Elsie more than the others, and only
brightened up a little when she shook hands
with Ponsonby, whom she had formerly been
acquainted with.

When she was at length shown to her
room she did not reappear till dinner time ;
and Mrs. Lindsay, who had accompanied
her in hopes of a private conference, returned

somewhat crestfallen to announce that Lady
Eleanor Fitzgerald found herself so fatigued
that she had been persuaded to . rest on her
bedroom sofa for an hour and a half.

Mrs. Lindsay was thus obliged to forego
all discussion of Elsie's prospects that day,
which disappointed her the more as the next
day was Sunday, and Lady Eleanor was
going away on Monday morning. The only
allusion to her son's engagement was made
by the General at dinner time, and this Mrs.
Lindsay did not hear, as she was talking
to Ponsonby, but Elsie caught the words :
Well, what do you think of these goings on ?'

Lady Eleanor's answer was inaudible, but
the General proceeded gaily :

Davie loses no time, eh ? He wants to
be settled early in life. As to little Elsie
here, why, it seems no time ago since her
poor mother was running about in pinafores.
They grow up before you can look round, as
one may say.'

Elsie heard Lady Eleanor answer this
time.

Yes, indeed, General, a couple of mere
children. They will think differently in a
year or two.'

Eh ? I don't know that. You don't
approve, eh ?'

Lady Eleanor glanced round the table
to make sure that no one heard. ' Hush,
General,' she said, touching his arm softly,
'a very foolish business. How well I remember
this room,' she went on in her usual
tone, ' nothing in it changed. Those same
old engravings, and the very same text over
the mantelpiece. Do you know how many
years it is since I came here first ? '

'You've become a sensible woman since
then, Nelly,' said the General with something
like a sigh.

She turned towards him quickly.

'Ah! that name takes me back to old
times.' There was a softened look on her
proud face for a moment, which made
Elsie's heart warm to her with a sudden
thrill of sympathy.

Mrs. Lindsay, who had heard nothing,

now gave the signal for the ladles to retire,
and they all filed off into the drawing-room,
where they took seats, varying in comfort
according to their rank and station. The
evening passed somewhat heavily. When
the gentlemen came in the three young ladies
were sent to the piano to play their pieces, in
which, from sheer nervousness, they all broke
down, one after another. Sophy being the
last and worst, was so sharply reproved by
Aunt Caroline that she was forced to retire
from the room in tears. Ponsonby alone
was heard to murmur that the music was
indeed charming, and when the performance
came to a disastrous conclusion, he good-naturedly
tried to divert Mrs. Lindsay's
attention from the culprit.

Mrs. Lindsay had resolved to devote the
following day, which was Sunday, entirely
to Canon Gosset, and to put away from her
all mundane things ; but even the best of
human resolutions are apt to yield to the
force of circumstances.

Her conference with Lady Eleanor had

not yet been held, and she knew that her
visitor had come expressly to talk over her
son's future, and took no more interest in
Canon Gosset and his missions than if that
Gospel teacher had been actually at Ping-yang
or Shoo-kow himself. The solemn
observances of the house were disregarded
by Lady Eleanor. Not only did she not
appear at prayers, but she absolutely declined
to go to church in the morning.

This annoyed Mrs. Lindsay considerably ;
however, she thought it right to go to Grave-hurst
as usual, taking all her flock with her.
The female members of the household were
inwardly struck with horror at the strange
behaviour of the visitor, but, as Mrs. Lindsay
had publicly given out beforehand that they
were on no account to judge Lady Eleanor
Fitzgerald, no one would have dared to express
an opinion, however impious they felt
her conduct to be.

But when, in the afternoon, she refused
even to go to Chippingham Church to hear
Canon Gosset, Mrs. Lindsay herself was

really distressed, and did not know what todo
with her.

My darling child,' she said, drawing Elsie
aside, ' I am sorry to disappoint you, but I
feel that it will be best for you to remain with
Lady Eleanor this afternoon. We must
remember what is due to others, and deeply
as I lament poor Eleanor's worldliness, I feel
that it would be scarcely courteous to leave
our guest alone a second time.'

Elsie readily complied with her aunt's
wish, although her heart failed her at the
prospect of spending a long afternoon tete-tete
with the alarming visitor. She had had
an uncomfortable consciousness of being
watched, although Lady Eleanor had never
spoken to her, and she had never even once
caught her eye.

You poor dear thing, how I do pity you !'
said Sophy, bestowing a parting hug upon
Elsie before hurrying off to prepare for
church. ' Be sure to remember all she says,
and tell us when we come back. I shall be
dying to hear.'

Be sure you remember what the canon
says,' returned Elsie ;' that is more to the
purpose,' and descended to fulfil her afternoons
duty.

She found Lady Eleanor examining the
books which were strewed about on the
table, in the hope of finding something to
read. Apparently her search was fruitless.
No novels were ever allowed in the Elms
drawing - room ; newspapers were cleared
away on Saturday night, and Sunday magazines
put in their place ; and the books on
the table, which were entitled, Little Susie s
Mission, Benjie s Bread and Better, Chirps
with the Chickabiddies ; or (for those who preferred
more solid reading) Habits and 
of the Reformers, Daylight in Dark
Places, or, Work among our Black and Brown
Sisters, Half Hours with the Sick and Sorrowing,
and other volumes of a like character,
were rejected by her one after another.

Have you come to keep me company ? '
she asked graciously, at length taking up a
book at random, and seating herself.

'If I may,' said Elsie. Lady Eleanor
bent her head in acquiescence, and they both
read on for some time diligently without
raising their eyes. Had any one asked Elsie
what was the title of her book, or what it was
about, she would have been utterly unable to
give an answer, though she kept her eyes
perseveringly glued to its pages. By and
by Lady Eleanor made a slight movement
to arrest her attention, and inquired
very abruptly : ' Does David write to
you ?'

Yes,' replied Elsie. ' Sometimes.'

He doesn't write to me,' said Lady
Eleanor, and began to read again. Half an
hour passed in this way, when, to Elsie's
great relief. Lady Eleanor shut her book
decidedly and rose. ' I am going out for a
walk,' she said.

May I come with you ? ' asked Elsie.

Certainly,' was the answer, and the visitor
began to look around her at the walls and
furniture. Presently a sudden idea seemed
to strike her, and she asked : ' Do you

think Mrs. Lindsay expected me to go to
church with her ? '

I think,' said Elsie, rather taken aback,
she thought you would have liked to go.'

I should be extremely sorry to annoy
any one about such a trifle as going to church,
but the fact is, I have a wretched headache
I have had it all day. I suppose you
never stay away from church ? '

I don't,' said Elsie, ' because I never
have a headache, but if I did, I had  I mean,
if I had I would.' She stopped confused,
angry with herself for her stupidity, and
fancying that the expression of face with
which Lady Eleanor surveyed her was one
of profound contempt. But it was not so, it
was merely critical ; she was considering
whether the girl looked prettier with colour
or without.

She next fired at her another of her abrupt
questions. ' Would you rather have been
at church this afternoon ? '

I would much rather go for a walk,'
replied Elsie truthfully.

VOL. II. G

Well, then, let us go,' said Lady Eleanor,
'and be well out of the way before they
come in.'

In a few minutes they sallied forth, accompanied
by the three dogs, who were equally
surprised and delighted at being taken out
walking on a Sunday.

Elsie suggested a walk by the river side,
but her companion secreted to have little taste
for the beauties of nature. ' Let us walk on
the high-road,' she said ; ' that will be every
bit as good  will it not ? and far less trouble.'
She asked Elsie a few questions about her
life at Chippingham, what she did, and how
she liked it ; the girl's answers were necessarily
a little guarded, and sounded stiff and
prim to herself; she was conscious of appearing
to great disadvantage in the eyes of
David's mother.

She must think me a perfect idiot,' said
she mentally. But it was utterly impossible
to judge from Lady Eleanor's manner what
she thought of her. She was thoughtful, as
if pondering some question in her mind ; and

nothing that Elsie said seemed to interest
her at all. When they had gone about a
mile and a half she stopped. ' This is a very
good level road,' she said ; 'let us turn now.'
On their way home she spoke no word, good
or bad ; except once, when Elsie turned to
rebuke the dogs for snuffing at the heels of a
passer-by, she said to her, ' How old are
you ? ' to which Elsie answered, ' I shall be
eighteen tomorrow.'

Sil. Is she not passing fair ?
Jul. She has been fairer, madam, than she is.

Sil. Alas, poor lady ! desolate and left ! 
I weep myself, to think upon thy words. '

Mrs. Lindsay had, after all, arranged the
disposal of this day very much to her own
satisfaction. Her plan that Elsie should
stay at home and make acquaintance with
her future mother-in-law seemed to her an
admirable one ; her own conference with the
latter should take place after tea, and with
this view she directed Emma and Sophy not
to loiter in the drawing-room, but to retire to
their room, and there meditate on the truths
they had just heard so powerfully expressed
by Canon Gosset. Ponsonby, she knew,
would go out of doors and smoke ; and she
had found a means of disposing of Miss

Maynard and Elsie. At tea-time Mrs. Lindsay
was enthusiastic over the sermon, and
lamented her failing memory, which was unable
to retain more than a small portion of so
moving a discourse.

But you, dear Cecilia, have taken notes,
I know. Elsie dear, if you will go to Miss
Maynard's room after tea, she has kindly
consented to read them to you.'

Accordingly, as soon as tea was over,
every one except Mrs. Lindsay and Lady
Eleanor disappeared as if by magic. Elsie
went to Miss Maynard's room as directed,
but when that lady began to search in her
pocket for her notes the girl stopped her.

Never mind Canon Gosset, dear Miss
Maynard,' she said ; 'Mr. Ponsonby has
told me all about him. I want to talk to
you. Tell me all you know about Lady
Eleanor.'

This has been a trying day for you, dear,'
said Miss Maynard anxiously. ' Do you
think that you will be able to love her ?'

Yes,' said Elsie decidedly, after a minute's

reflection. ' I could if she would let me, but
it is impossible that she can like me.'

And why so, dear ? ' said her friend, kissing
her. ' It would be difficult indeed to help
loving you.'

It will not be at all difficult to Lady
Eleanor,' returned Elsie. ' But never mind
that. I think her very interesting ; tell me
all you know about her. When did you see
her first ? and do you think Aunt Caroline
really likes her or not ?'

Your dear aunt,' replied Miss Maynard,
nothing loath to have a little gossip with her
favourite, ' was formerly much attached to

her, but The first time I saw Lady

Eleanor was  it must be nearly twenty-five
years ago, when she came here as a bride  a
lovely bride, of scarce seventeen summers.
Her first husband was, you know. General
Lindsay's nephew ; he was a young man of
singular personal attractions.'

Is David like his father ?' inquired Elsie.
Miss Maynard paused before replying.

You will pardon me, my love, when I say

that young Mr. Lindsay is scarcely so richly
endowed by nature, as regards mere outward
form. Nevertheless there is a strong family
resemblance. Your aunt,' she proceeded,
conceived the most enthusiastic affection for
the young bride, whom she loved like a
sister. Her generous heart was full of sympathy
for the young pair, for theirs had been
purely a love match ; in fact '  she hesitated
and lowered her voice  ' there had been a
an elope-ment. My dear, you ought not
to lead me into making these disclosures.'

I knew it was a runaway marriage,' said
Elsie. ' Aunt Grizel has often told me the
story. But I wonder then that Aunt Caroline
approved of it.'

Your dear aunt,' said her friend, ' although
by no means in her first youth, had been
but lately married herself, and her heart expanded
and, as it were, overflowed with
affection ; and this young creature, cast off as
she was by her parents, was doubtless glad
to find a resting-place here.'

'Would her parents not forgive her V

Their resentment did not last long.
Lady Eleanor was the youngest and favourite
daughter, petted, indulged, and somewhat
wilful. She was destined by her parents to
some higher position, to which her beauty
and rank might well have entitled her ; her
husband's person, character, and lineage being,
however, irreproachable, they ultimately recovered
from their disappointment, and were
willing to embrace him as a son.'

But did Lady Eleanor and her husband
remain poor ?'

Yes, dear ; they never attained affluence
during Colonel Lindsay's lifetime. He found
himself frequently In difficulties, and the expectations
he entertained of succeeding to
both money and rank were destined never, in
his person, to be realised.'

And how is It,' asked Elsie, ' that she and
Aunt Caroline have left off loving each other
like sisters ?'

I can scarcely tell you what were the
first slight causes which led to estrangement.
Lady Eleanor was, as I have said, wilful and

somewhat haughty, and your aunt thought
her foolishly extravagant. Her husband
could refuse her nothing; and your aunt,
in short, regretted the way in which they
managed their affairs. Then when Lady
Eleanor became the mother of a beautiful
boy, and your dear aunt, surrounded by every
comfort which money could procure, remained
childless, naturally it was a great vexation to
dear Caroline. I had not then made my
home permanently under your kind uncle's
roof, so that I did not see Lady Eleanor
again until two years after her husband's
death, when she came here with her younger
son, then a child of five years. Up to that
time she had resided in Scotland ; but she
came south to place her elder boy at school,
and remained in England in order to be
near him. She stayed here for about two
months ; and it was, my love, an exceedingly
unfortunate visit.' miss Maynard paused
and sighed. ' In many ways Lady Eleanor
was much to be pitied, her husband and her
mother both dead, and she struggling with

pecuniary difficulties. Yet  your aunt justly
thought that she did not bear her troubles ina
right spirit. It was painful to see how,
when spoken to of economy and of patience,
she gave way to fits of sullenness, often to
tears ; which, your aunt could not but feel,
owed their origin to temper rather than to
grief. Then, her method of bringing up her
child was not such as your aunt could at all
approve. He was a sadly mischievous little
boy, and, though outwardly handsome, his
infant features but too plainly denoted evil
passions.'

And he only five ! ' exclaimed Elsie.
Poor little boy !'

He was very precocious,' said Miss Maynard,
* and expressed himself with wonderful
fluency for his age. There were frequent
disturbances, and his mother always took
his part. Well do I remember once, when
your aunt reproved him severely for calling
his attendant names,  shocking names, my
dear ! I could not repeat them,  he told her
to mind her own affairs ! Young as he was,

your dear aunt's keen eye could detect in
him the seeds of every vice.'

They have not come up, then,' said Elsie
rather indignantly. ' I am sure Lionel is a
nice boy, David seems so fond of him. I
don't believe there is any vice about him.'

I have since heard him described,' said
Miss Maynard, ' as a youth of pleasing exterior,
and I am willing to hope the best of
every one. But I fear that never, under any
conditions, can he be acceptable to your Aunt
Caroline.'

Elsie remained silent for some minutes,
pondering on what she had heard. ' I feel
very sorry for Lady Eleanor,' she said at
last. * I think It must have been very hard
for her, with all her troubles, to come here
and be bullied by Aunt Caroline when she
wasn't used to belno found fault with. And
if she does not want me to marry David, I
think it is quite natural. She thinks it will
be her own story over again  that I should be
extravagant, and David not able to refuse me
anything, and that I should waste all his money.'

But, my love, you are a very different
person from Lady Eleanor, and would not
be extravagant, I feel sure.'

Yes, but she can't know that, nor that
there would be no need for David to refuse
me things, because I should not ask for them.
But, indeed, I am afraid I am too poor for
him ; why was I not told all these things
before ? How can people know anything if
they are not told and she looked reproachfully
at Miss Maynard.

My dear child,' said the bewildered lady,
what could you have done if you had
known ?'

I might have refused David for his own
good, like people In books. But don't look
so distressed, dear Miss Maynard, it is too
late to do it now, and I don't know that I
am very sorry. But what did Lady Eleanor
do next 1 Was there a quarrel ?'

No, there was no open breach. Lady
Eleanor left the Elms to reside with her
father, the Earl of Monmouth, which she
continued to do until his death. But your

uncle and aunt, disapproving as they did her
method of bringing up her children, did not
think it right to invite her here again. Your
uncle, perhaps, would have liked  but no, on
such subjects they always feel together.
They were most anxious to adopt the eldest
son as their own, but his mother refused
this offer  I may say, she rejected it
angrily.'

Then she never came here again until
now ?'

She paid a formal visit of a few days
with her husband, upon her second marriage.
Mr. Fitzgerald had been a very persistent
suitor, but Lady Eleanor did not accept him
until after her father's death. He made
a favourable impression upon your aunt,
although she could not but suspect that
worldly motives on Lady Eleanor's part had

prompted the step ' Miss Maynard

stopped and started guiltily, as a knock was
heard at the door. It opened a little way,
and Sophy's round face was thrust in.

May I come in. Cousin Cecilia ? I knew

A Il V AMONG THORNS part

I should find Elsie here. Oh, Elsie, only
think !'

Dear me, Sophy,' said Elsie, annoyed at
the interruption, ' you surely cannot have
done meditating already ?'

Long ago !' replied the damsel cheerfully.
' I have been talking to Bridget.'
(Bridget was the upper housemaid.) ' Her
niece is going to be married to Tyson, the
baker, he is a Particular Baptist, I wonder
if auntie will let her go to the wedding !
What is a Particular Baptist ? Do you
know. Cousin Cecilia } Elsie, do you ?
Bridget does not.'

What's the use of your being a clergyman's
daughter if you know nothing about
sects ?' returned her better instructed friend
contemptuously. ' A Particular Baptist is
just a kind of Baptist which is very rare.
There used to be one at St. Ethernans, who
made besoms. Let us leave Miss Maynard
to take her rest before supper.' And disregarding
Sophy's question as to what
bizzums ' might be, Elsie left the room hastily.

O why should fate sic pleasure have
Life's dearest bands entwining ?
Or why sae sweet a flower as love
Depend on Fortune's shining !'

Meanwhile, in the drawing-room, the two
ladies were holding a no less interesting
discussion. Lady Eleanor had moved into
a large arm-chair, and was thoughtfully
playing with a fire-screen. Mrs. Lindsay,
having settled herself for conversation, and
waited in vain for her friend to begin, at
length cleared her throat and said 

It was not, Eleanor, without design that
I left Elspeth with you this afternoon. It
is best that we should understand one another
plainly. What opinion, dear, have you
formed regarding her ?'

She is very pretty,' answered Lady

Eleanor slowly. ' Very pretty  and will be
prettier yet. You see I don't want to disparage
her. But I wonder, Caroline, that
a woman of your age and experience can
encourage anything so nonsensical as this
engagement.'

'Encourage it!' cried Mrs. Lindsay, becoming
excited. ' You know how I have
acted from the first. If you did not heed
the Written warning which I instantly despatched
to you '

Now don't get angry,' said Lady Eleanor
impatiently. ' You said yourself we were to
speak plainly. I only mean, any one might
have foreseen that David would fancy himself
in love with her. A boy of two-and-twenty
and a pretty girl of seventeen, in a
house together for three weeks ! what else
could you expect ?'

I certainly did not expect,' said Mrs.
Lindsay, with her handkerchief to her eyes,
to be accused of complicity '

If you are going to be offended, Caroline,'
said Lady Eleanor, taking up a book, ' we

had better drop the subject. I should be
sorry to hurt your feelings.' She really
wished to avoid a scene, and was, in her
secret heart, rather afraid of provoking Mrs.
Lindsay. Although she had been spoilt all
her life, it was not from real strength of will
that Lady Eleanor ruled others ; but by a
peculiar sort of charm, impossible to describe,
which was felt by most men and some women.
Elsie fell under its influence at once, and
was ready to become her devoted slave ; but
Mrs. Lindsay, it is needless to say, was as
free from any weakness of the sort as ever
Queen Elizabeth had been, and in her former
encounters with Lady Eleanor had invariably
come off victorious. But she was now perfectly
aware of the difference in their positions,
and not knowing her advantage, she
pocketed her handkerchief and replied  ' My
feelings, I trust, are under control ; at whatever
cost of pain to myself, I will finish this
conversation. You are of course aware,
Eleanor, that the happiness of two young
lives rests upon your decision.'

VOL. II. H

This is the first time,' said Lady Eleanor
rather resentfully, ' that anybody has thought
proper to consult me on the matter. David
has rushed into this engagement without
asking my advice, and now other people
must take the responsibility. I don't know
what you would have me decide.'

Am I to understand that you would give
your consent to the marriage of these young
people, provided '

How can I consent to let them marry on
nothing ? ' cried Lady Eleanor impatiently.
You must see for yourself, Caroline, that
the thing is impossible.'

That is not the immediate question. We
shall come to that point presently. I have
in my possession a letter from Captain Ross,
with whom I have necessarily been in communication.'
She drew out the document in
question, and tapped the table with it, perhaps
imagining that Lady Eleanor would
instantly beg to have it read to her ; but Mrs.
Lindsay's air of superiority in the matter
fretted her rival beyond endurance.

Oh, I know all that Captain Ross has to
say. David has been staying there  he
came back full of It. Captain Ross consents
if I do, and if Frederick does, and all that 
and if he can produce enough to live upon,
which he can't. / cannot prevent their being
engaged, if they wish ; they will not be able
to marry for years. An engagement Is a
very different thing from a marriage.'

Surely ! ' said Mrs Lindsay with emphasis.
And that speech (in whatever spirit it was
made) leads to my solution of the difficulty.
My dear generous husband, who, in spite of
all that has come and gone, has always looked
upon David as his heir, is willing to allow him
now the sum of ;500 a year, which, with his
own zoo, will go far to satisfy the requirements
of Elspeth's father, and be amply
sufficient for the needs of a prudent and self-denying
young couple. This, dear Eleanor,
is the proposal I wished to make to you, and
to you alone ; for without your consent as a
parent I should feel It wrong to proceed In
the matter.' Mrs. Lindsay here wiped her

eyes, for she felt somewhat overcome by her
own eloquence, and the magnanimity of her
offer, and, folding her arms, waited for her
friend's reply.

You are very kind, Caroline,' said Lady
Eleanor ; ' really, extremely kind  but I
could not hear of it. You really are too
romantic, my dear. Let David go back to
India, and you will find they will both change
their minds in a few months.'

Mrs. Lindsay's eyes flashed with indignation.
' You little know the constancy and
the truth of these two beautiful young natures ;
but I had not expected such a speech from
you, Eleanor! Strange how the world has
power to alter and corrupt our hearts ! Have
you, then, quite forgotten your own young
married life ? '

No,' said Lady Eleanor, looking at her
composedly. ' I remember it quite well 
it was most uncomfortable. You may be
shocked at me, Caroline  I daresay you are
but I don't believe in constancy and broken
hearts, and that sort of thing. I know now

perfectly well, that if they had prevented me
from marrying poor Archie  I should have
been very sorry of course, but it would not
have broken my heart  not a bit.'

'And His?' demanded Mrs. Lindsay, ina
tone between grief and indignation. * What
of HIM ? '

Lady Eleanor had been about to pursue
her argument, but she stopped short suddenly
at these words and remained silent. She had
been occupied with her own heart at the
moment, and had entirely forgotten that of
her husband ; but as she recalled his unchanging
devotion to her, her face grew grave, and
she did not care to continue the subject.

Now if I were you,' she began again presently,
' I would take that pretty niece of
yours about a little, and let her see some
people. What can you expect if you never
let her go into any society ? I daresay
David is the only man she ever saw.'

This is a totally useless discussion,' said
Mrs. Lindsay, who was now bitterly disappointed,
for she had already begun to think

with joy of preparing Elsie's outfit, and now
it did not seem likely to be needed. ' I know
my duties, Eleanor, and you know my principles.
My strength'  she laid her hand
upon her heart  ' is not equal to a conversation
of this kind. It gives me too much pain.
All I ask from you to-night is, not to reject
my proposal finally ; I shall look for your
decision tomorrow ere you leave us. Now,
dear, if you will excuse me.' She rose, and
holding on by the table for support, moved
with tottering steps towards the door.

Don't let me be in your way,' said Lady
Eleanor. ' I am going to my room.'

While the party were at breakfast next
morning a man's voice and step were suddenly
heard In the hall, and, much to everyone's
surprise, David walked in. A great
bustle of course ensued, but David took it all
with perfect composure, and seemed to think
it quite Impossible that any one could be in
the least embarrassed or disturbed by his
entrance. Hearing his mother was at Chip-gingham,
he said he thought he would just

take a run over there, and relieve her mind
about Lionel, who was getting on famously.

The morning was spent in a series of
private interviews in the boudoir, held by Mrs.
Lindsay with each separate member of the
company, Elsie alone excepted. In some
suspense she waited her turn, but it was not
until the morning was nearly past that she
was formally summoned to a family council
in the study. There sat the General in his
big arm-chair, who called her to him kindly,
and patted her on the back. His wife sat on
his other side, with one hand in his, and the
other holding her pocket-handkerchief ready
for use. Lady Eleanor sat opposite, trying
to appear indifferent, and not succeeding very
well, while David stood with his back against
the mantelpiece, looking vexed and angry.

Elsie,' said the General, in obedience to
a nudge from his wife, ' Elsie  ahem !'

'Yes, Uncle Henry,' said Elsie.

Elsie, your aunt thinks  well, she thinks
that  well, that in two years you will be
older.'

What are you saying, dearest ?' said Mrs.
Lindsay energetically ; ' that Is not the
question, and it is by no means my wish

that ' here she stopped and whispered in

her husband's ear.

*0h  ah!' said the General helplessly,
not having heard a word of the whisper.
'Well, at any rate, somebody said so  you
did, Nelly!'

No, I didn't,' said Lady Eleanor.

There was a short silence, during which
David, making an impatient movement with
his foot, somehow managed to knock down
the fire-irons with a tremendous clatter, causing
every one to start violently, and Mrs.
Lindsay to shriek aloud. After quiet was
restored, the General's nerves being too much
shaken to continue his speech, his wife took
up her parable and said 

Your dear uncle was about to tell
you, Elsie, that Lady Eleanor, without
absolutely forbidding your engagement, has
determined '

Why do you insist upon dragging me in ?'

said Lady Eleanor. * It has been thought
best by every one.'

Not by me,' put In David.

Your friends then,' said Mrs. Lindsay with
seraphic patience, after a Httle pause, ' have
decided upon a two years' probation for you
and David. If, at the end of that time, your
sentiments remain unchanged, no obstacle ' 
she stopped and looked at Lady Eleanor 
NO obstacle will be placed in the way of
your union.'

Elsie, too, glanced at Lady Eleanor, who
gazed at the opposite wall and said nothing.

Elsie supposed she was expected to speak,
so she said, ' I am quite satisfied then. Aunt
Caroline, I think it is a very good plan. We
may write to each other, may not we ?' and
again she looked at Lady Eleanor. But
David came forward and took both her hands.

Of course,' he said, ' and see as much of
each other as we can  that is expressly stipulated.
There is no help for it, Elsie ; but
this day two years, if I live, I will come back
and claim you.'

Was yacht mein liber Held,
Mein judges Konigsblut ?
Er fahet in alle Welt,
Und hat gar stolen Much.
Hat er noah mein vergessen,
Und deut er limner mein ?
Er hat dein noah vergessen,
Beam trinket und beam essen,
Bei Regent und Sonnenschein !'

Lady Eleanor's three nieces sat in the
garden parlour at Alkerton one December
afternoon. This was a small but pleasant
room on the ground-floor, oak-panelled like
the dining-room, and made bright with jars
of chrysanthemums, Christmas roses, and
other winter-blooming flowers. The two
Miss Mortimerss were paying their aunt a
visit of some weeks' duration ; their sister,
Lady Seathwaite, with her little girl, had
lately joined them, with the intention of remaining

till after Christmas, as the child had
been weak and ailing, and the mother also
was glad of a change from the cold and
dreariness of Seathwaite Hall. Her husband
did not accompany her ; he disliked his wife's
relations, who, on their part, cordially returned
the feeling; and though Lady Seathwaite
had never before ventured to leave him at
home alone for so long a time, she had grown
bolder for her child's sake, and in the society
of her own family her natural light heartiness
prevailed, and she allowed herself, at
times, to forget her miseries.

It yet wanted about a fortnight to Christmas
Day ; the weather, in that cold midland
district, was mild for the season, a sharp
frosty morning being generally succeeded by
a raw damp afternoon, and no snow had as
yet fallen. The short winter day was over,
a servant brought in the lamps, and the
sisters left the tea-table and gathered round
the fire.

'Aunt Eleanor is late,' observed Constance
Mortimer. 'What can be keeping

her ? I hope she will come in in time to
receive Miss Ross ; what a bore it will be if
she doesn't.'

'And so awkward for us!' said Blanche,
the youngest.

Well, it may be a bore, as Constance
says, but I see nothing awkward about it,
Blanche,* said Lady Seathwaite. ' Constance,
it strikes me those people will want fresh tea.'

Constance looked as if she would like to
contradict her sister, but finding it undeniable
that there was no tea left in the pot, she rang
the bell sharply. She was a slender, dark-eyed
girl, with rather a narrow face and
aquiline features. She was not ill-tempered,
but there was something discontented and
querulous about the droop of her nose and
lips, and in the tone of her voice. Her
movements were graceful, and she was admired
by many people, but more because it
was the fashion to call the Miss Mortimerss
handsome, than from any special good looks
which Constance herself possessed. Her
younger sister Blanche, a tall, well-grown,

fresh-coloured girl of nineteen, had, in spite
of irregular features, more decided claims to
beauty, with her dark gipsy eyes, white teeth,
and rich complexion ; but it was Rosamond
who had won for the sisterhood, in her unmarried
days, the name of the handsome
Miss Mortimerss. Not so tall as either of
her sisters, but beautifully formed, she looked
less than her real height ; she had a charming
piquant little face, gray eyes with long dark
lashes, rich wavy brown hair, and a complexion
like a damask rose. She would have
been a most attractive creature to look upon
had it not been for an air of extreme haughtiness
and disdain which, ever since her ill-fated
marriage, she had thought fit to assume. In
her girlish days she had been gay, lively, and
amusing, but the unhappy life she had led,
and the constant brooding over her wrongs,
had changed her greatly. Her natural
courage and bright disposition prevented her
from sinking into a dull spiritless state, but
she had long fits of silence and depression ;
her smiles now came unwillingly, as if she

was angry with herself for even feeling
amused ; and her acquaintances were wont
to complain that little Lady Seathwaite gave
herself such airs that it was impossible even
to feel much compassion for her. It was
only when alone with her child that her real
nature showed itself; with her sisters too, she
unbent a little, and condescended occasionally
to make jokes at their expense.

My dear Rose,' said Blanche, rather
pompously resuming her argument after satisfying
herself that a wheelbarrow she had
heard outside was not the expected carriage,
whatever you may say, I think it extremely
awkward for us to receive our future cousin
without a proper introduction.'

She never will be our cousin, most likely,'
said Constance scornfully. ' Aunt Eleanor
does not wish it, she says it is most unsuitable.
And do not, Blanche, for goodness'
sake, make any of your prim speeches to her.
She is no relation to us, you know, there is no
need to put things in her head ; she will most
likely be quite conceited enough without that.'

VOL. II. I

Rose's lip curled. ' If Aunt Eleanor
finds it unsuitable,' she said rather bitterly,
you may depend upon it that poor Miss
Ross will never have a chance of attaining to
the proud position of being 'your relation,"
which Constance seems to think so desirable.
You shall receive her, Blanche, and afterwards
Constance can take down her conceit,
you know. Wait  we will have a private
rehearsal. This chair'  placing one in the
doorway  ' represents Miss Ross ; now this
Is Blanche receiving her.'

As Rose advanced towards the chair, with
an exact Imitation of her sister's self-possessed
and condescending manner, the door was
thrown open, and ' Miss Ross ' announced.
With a quick movement Rosamond retreated,
and dropped Into a large arm-chair by the
table, with an air of indifference which would
have done her considerable credit as an actress.
The chair which represented Miss Ross was
left where it was, and poor Elsie, coming In
out of the darkness, nearly ran against it,
which did not tend to lessen the feeling of

nervous shyness which had seized her on this
her first visit to David's relatives.

It was now nearly a year since David had
left her to return to India, during which time
Elsie had lived on her quiet monotonous life
at Chippingham, of which she often felt
heartily tired, yet hitherto had not been
allowed to leave her uncle and aunt, even fora
day. The visit to Rossiee, which she had
promised herself in the summer, and to which
she had looked forward with such pleasure,
had been postponed to another year in consequence
of the events which had taken place
there, and the state of her stepmother's health.
Early in June Euphemia had become the
mother of twin sons, thus amply fulfilling the
duties of her station, and earning for herself
the approbation of her husband's family and
friends, though the Laird himself had been
heard to remark ungratefully that one at a
time would have been enough in all conscience,
and that some women could never do things
in moderation. The twins, who received the
names of Patrick and Allan, were healthy and

thriving children, but the poor mother's Hfe
was for some time despaired of, and her
recovery was so slow that for many weeks
all exertion and excitement were forbidden.
It was not until the month of August that, a
change of air having been prescribed, the
Laird packed off his wife, children, and
nurses, under the charge of Aunt Grizel, to
Strathpeffer, with instructions not to leave
that watering-place until Euphemia had regained
her strength. This would have been
Elsie's opportunity for paying her father a
visit, but the Laird, having got rid of his
family, applied himself to the examination of
his drains, which he found to be in so unsatisfactory
a state that he wrote to his daughter
to the effect that she had better put off her
intended visit for that year. Elsie's one
great pleasure, therefore, consisted in her
correspondence with David, which was maintained
very regularly, almost every mail
bringing her a letter from her lover. In
October she accompanied her uncle and aunt
to St. Leonardss for their 'annual inclement

of sea breezes,' as Aunt Caroline called it,
and soon after their return to the Elms Elsie
received an invitation from Lady Eleanor to
pay her a visit at Alkerton.

Although Elsie was extremely afraid of
David's mother, and looked forward to her
stay at Alkerton with far more alarm than
pleasure, she never hesitated about accepting
the invitation. It was not until she was
actually in the train that her courage began
to fail, and by the time the wheels of the
carriage which had been sent to meet her
crunched upon the gravel of the drive she
was desperately asking herself, ' Why was I
so insane as to come here ?' Nor did the
reception she met with from Lady Eleanor's
nieces tend to allay her apprehensions. They
were not in the least rude, certainly ; yet
Constance contrived to convey by her manner
the impression that Elsie's coming at all, but
especially her arrival by so punctual a train,
was a liberty such as no really well-bred
person would have been guilty of taking.
Blanche followed suit ; and Rosamond, after

Elsie's first entrance, took no notice of her at
all, but sat in her arm-chair apparently absorbed
in some crewel-work. The other two
watched Elsie, as she drank her tea, with
coldly critical eyes, occasionally asking her
some trivial question languidly, and as if it
cost them a great deal of trouble to invent
so much conversation. At first Elsie tried to
answer cheerfully, but finding from their indifferent
replies that it was only labour thrown
away, she relapsed into monosyllables, and
took courage to look about her a little. The
room, with its dark walls and tasteful furniture,
was positively refreshing to her eyes. If there
had been one friendly face in it, how pleasant
it would have been ! She looked across at
Lady Seathwaite, whose beauty attracted her
greatly, and wished that she would look up
and speak ; but Rosamond did not once turn
her head. Elsie could just see her face in
profile as she sewed, the dark eyebrow raised
a little to express complete indifference, but
otherwise giving no sign that she was aware
of any one's presence. It was a relief to all

when the door opened and Lady Eleanor
came in, leading by the hand little Mona
Seathwaite, a pretty but delicate-looking child
of some four or five years of age. The chair
in its awkward position in the doorway at
once attracted Lady Eleanor's attention, and
she began indignantly 

It is the very oddest thing  Oh, how do
you do ?'  catching sight of Elsie, who had
risen  ' the very oddest thing that nobody
can move in this house without falling over
chairs. Who could have put that there ?'

'It was I, Aunt Eleanor  I beg your
pardon,' said Rosamond, lifting her calm face
from her work. ' We were  rehearsing one
of our Christmas charades before Miss Ross
arrived. The word was to have been
'' Welcome." '

A very stupid word for a charade, I
think,' said Lady Eleanor, still ruffled.

It happened,' replied Rosamond slowly,
to be appropriate at the moment.*

She drew little Mona towards her and
began to unfasten the child's heavy wraps,

while Lady Eleanor turned to Elsie with
more cordiality of manner.

Have they taken good care of you ?' she
asked. ' How late it is ! I had no idea Mrs.
Freeman's tea-party would have kept me so
long, but her servants are the slowest I ever
saw in my life. I thought the carriage would
never come to the door.'

Elsie had hoped and expected to find
Lionel at Alkerton. She had made friends
with him at St. Leonardss, where, it may be
remembered, David had taken him to recover
from his fever the year before. Elsie had
been much attracted by Lionel's handsome
face and boyish confiding ways. Aunt Caroline,
however, never could abide him, and
still declared him to be a vicious youth. She
would not even allow that he was good-looking,
but maintained that he had a 'lowering
brow,' which rendered his appearance disagreeable,
she might almost say repulsive, to
her peculiarly penetrating eye.

It was not until Elsie came down to dinner,
on this her first evening at Alkerton, that she

learnt that Lionel was not expected for some
days. This was a decided blow to her, as
she had looked forward to his friendship and
support, but she was beginning to recover a
little from her first shyness. At dinner she
sat next to Mr. Fitzgerald, opposite Lady
Seathwaite, whom she looked at with increasing
admiration. Once or twice Elsie caught
the dark gray eyes fixed upon her with a
strange look of interest, and almost compassion,
but the next moment she thought it was
fancy, as Rosamond leaned back carelessly in
her chair, or turned to address some half-mocking
speech to her next neighbour. Mr.
Fitzgerald was exceedingly kind and complimentary
to Elsie, and made her a speech,
rendered personal by a little bow, in which
he spoke of the privilege he enjoyed in being
surrounded by such a 'galaxy of beauty.'

When the ladies left the dining-room
Rosamond went up at once to the nursery,
and did not return for nearly an hour.
Constance drew up a footstool to her aunt's
side, and engaged her in a very earnest,

low-toned conversation about dresses, which
was unintelligible to Elsie, but which to
Constance was a very serious subject indeed,
as she was engaged to be married, and it
related to her owen trousseau. Blanche was
therefore left to entertain the visitor, which
she seemed to do willingly enough. She
dropped the supercilious manner which at
first she had thought proper to assume, and
became perfectly gracious, not to say patronising.
When Mr. Fitzgerald came in music
was proposed, but as Elsie could not play
or sing, the girls excused themselves, saying
they would wait till Lionel came home, and
the visitor was told off to play bezique with
Mr. Fitzgerald, a duty which some one had
to perform every evening.

Elsie found her position much more endurable
than she had thought it when she first
arrived, and would have gone to rest peacefully
enough but for a little conversation her
hostess held with her before leaving her for
the night.

I have put you into this room, quite near

Blanche,' said Lady Eleanor, 'so you need
not be frightened ; but I daresay you are a
sensible girl and not nervous at night. I
hate noises myself.'

She glanced round the room, then took
up her candle as if to go away. As Elsie
approached to bid her good-night, she said
suddenly, ' Have you heard from David
lately?'

I didn't hear last mail,' said Elsie.

Nor the mail before ?'

No ; but then he told me to expect that.'

Ah ! ' said Lady Eleanor.

He is not  ill ? You have no reason to
be anxious about him ?' said Elsie in sudden
alarm. ' Have you heard from him, Lady
Eleanor ?'

I didn't hear from him,' said Lady
Eleanor slowly, setting down her candle and
turning to the fire. ' No, no, he is not ill 
you need not look at me like that. I don't
know how to tell you, child.'

What ?' said Elsie under her breath.

It seems there is a report about him in

his regiment, I heard It about three weeks
ago from Mrs. Freeman, who Is sister-ln-law
to the Colonel, that a young Lindsay 
David never mentioned a Miss Pratt to you,
did he ?'

Elsie shook her head.

Well, she Is a  not a very nice girl, from
all accounts, and there was some entanglement.
The Colonel, It seems, was sorry for
the young man, knowing the Pratt to be
designing people, and he sent him on duty
up the country somewhere, to be out of
harm's way  which would explain our not
having had letters  and I hope it Is all right
now  but '

 I do not believe It,' said Elsie, drawing
herself up.

Lady Eleanor looked at her.

'There Is no need to be rude, my dear,'
she said. 'It is a very unpleasant report,
of course  and there nay be no truth In It ;
still, a girl cannot be too much on her guard.'

On my guard against what ?' said Elsie
proudly. ' I do not believe a single word

of this Story, Lady Eleanor  do you believe
it yourself?'

Lady Eleanor avoided meeting Elsie's
direct gaze ; she hesitated, and looked fixedly
at the point of her shoe, which rested on
the fender.

One would think the Colonel's wife ought
to know,' she said at length. ' I am not
alarmed about it, as David is not apt to get
into scrapes, and of course, as you can throw
no light upon it, I shall write to him at once,
and learn the whole story ; but I don't know
that it would do ov yoic to go on writing as
if nothing had happened  that is the reason
I warned you.'

You wish me to break off my engagement,'
said Elsie ; ' but I have no reason for
doing so, unless I believe this report, which
I don't. So I am just where I was before.'

You are exceedingly obstinate,' said Lady
Eleanor, provoked. ' I am sure I don't know
what sort of a wife you will make. Well, I
suppose advice is thrown away upon you ;
but if I were in your place, I should certainly

not put myself into competition with a Miss
Pratt. If there is to be any breach or coolness,
it had better come from the girl's side.'
With these words as a parting benediction,
Lady Eleanor withdrew, leaving Elsie to
reflect upon what she had said.

Elsie was not so brave as her words ; and
this report of her lover's unfaithfulness was
far from leaving her as tranquil as it had
found her. She indignantly refused to admit,
even to herself, that there was the least
ground for believing it, yet Lady Eleanor's
communication rendered her utterly miserable
and perplexed. When, in the morning,
she awoke from the troubled sleep into which
she had at length fallen, she wondered at
herself for having dared to answer Lady
Eleanor as she did. Some instinctive feeling
had led her to do so. ' Yet '  thought Elsie,
'perhaps I was very ungrateful, for what
motive could she have had, except my good ?
But if she believed the story herself, which
she seemed to do, I wonder she was not more
distressed. Perhaps she really was, but was

too proud to show it. I wish I could understand
her.'

She was destined to be still more perplexed
that day by her hostess's behaviour.
Lady Eleanor did not seem to be in the least
offended with her ; on the contrary, she was
extremely kind, and took more notice of her
than she had ever done before.

After luncheon, when Constance and
Blanche proposed a walk, and invited Elsie to
accompany them, Lady Eleanor interfered 

No,' she said ; ' Elsie is tired. Do not
tease her to walk with you ; I am going to
take her for a drive.'

Elsie, surprised and grateful, hastened to
get ready, and was soon seated beside her
hostess in the pony-carriage, which was
drawn by an old white horse whose steadiness
was proverbial, and who was the only
animal Lady Eleanor would ever consent to
drive.

As soon as they were alone together. Lady
Eleanor asked, * Have you thought over what
I said last night ?'

I have thought of nothing else,' was the
answer. ' It was very kind of you to warn
me,' she added timidly; 'but indeed, Lady
Eleanor, I know David would not do a thing
like that.'

Lady Eleanor said nothing.

I shall hear  I am almost sure to hear
from him tomorrow. If I were at Chipping-ham
I should hear to-day, but the letter will
have to be forwarded.'

And if you do not hear ?'

Elsie hesitated.

Do you think I ought not to write ?'

I shall have to write,' said Lady Eleanor,
'and ask him to explain his conduct. If you
have any message you had better entrust it
to me.'

'Thank you. Lady Eleanor,' said Elsie
doubtfully. 'Yes, I will do that  if I have
no letter. But I am almost sure to have one.'

Lady Eleanor seemed satisfied, and as
they drove along she talked kindly and
pleasantly, pointing out the different villages
through which they passed. Elsie admired

the country very much : the winding river,
which in summer could scarcely be seen
through the thick grass, was now broad and
full, and many of the low-lying meadows
were flooded. The fine old trees, though
now stripped of their leaves, looked beautiful,
and allowed a greater extent of view to be
visible through their bare branches ; far away
the white smoke of a train appeared and
vanished, its whistle being distinctly heard in
the still, heavy air. Everything was wet,
very wet, heavy drops splashed from the
brown thatch of the cottages, and a whitish
mist rose from the river banks.

Yes, it is a pretty country, I suppose,'
said Lady Eleanor, in answer to Elsie's
remark ; ' but I can't bear it myself The
climate is detestable, I have never felt well
since I left Devonshire.'

Soon they came to Wroxbury, the market
town of the district ; and after giving some
orders to one or two shorten. Lady Eleanor
turned to her companion 

We will go to the post-office, though it is

VOL. II. K

a little out of our way, and see If the mail
is in.'

No letter from David, though / ought to
have heard to-days she said, as the servant
came back empty-handed. She looked a
little thoughtful, but apparently did not allow
herself to dwell upon the subject.

We will drive home by Cobham,' she
said, ' I have a visit to pay there. The
husband of the lady I am going to see,
Captain Battisley, is an officer lately home
from India, with an invalid wife. He considers
himself fortunate in getting the adjutant
of the yeomanry here  as he is not very
well off She is a ladylike person.'

Elsie did not feel much interest in this
information, and rather wondered why Lady
Eleanor should have taken the trouble to
bestow it upon her. After mounting a steep
hill they reached Cobham, a picturesque
village, and stopped outside the gate of a
small, rather mean-looking house.

Captain Battisley used to live in Roxbury,'
explained Lady Eleanor further ; ' but

he had to leave it, and come and live on the
hill, on account of his wife's neuralgia. This
place is not nearly so convenient for him.'
She looked full at Elsie whilst she said this,
and the girl wondered still more.

Why does she look at me so severely ? '
thought she. ' Anybody would think / had
given this lady neuralgia. I never even
heard of her.'

The door was at length opened by a very
untidy parlour-maid, who said Mrs. Battisley
was at home, and they were ushered into a
hot, stuffy little drawing-room, where the
invalid lady lay on the sofa. Elsie was not
at all favourably impressed either by the
room or its occupant ; she thought the lady
peevish and disagreeable, and the room not
only poor but slovenly and uncared for.
Lady Eleanor listened patiently, whilst Mrs.
Battisley recounted some of her many grievances,
and by and by asked if she might seethe
children.

Certainly, if you care to,' said Mrs. Bat-wisely,
looking surprised, ' but they are in a

shockingly untidy state, I know. Shall I
send for baby ?'

On no account,' said Lady Eleanor, staying
her hand as she was about to ring the
bell, 'do not trouble yourself. I wanted Miss
Ross to see them ; she is so fond of children.
May she go to the nursery and look at them
just as they are ? That is what she would
really like, I know.'

Elsie was struck dumb, and dared not protest,
though in truth she was by no means an
ardent baby-lover. She had never lived much
with little children, and though she felt kindly
towards them, they had the effect of making
her shy ; she did not know how to converse
with them. Mrs. Battlsley looked annoyed,
but asked Elsie if she thought she could find
her way to the nursery. ' It is upstairs, the
first turning to the right,' she said.

Elsie found her way without difficulty, as
the sounds of infantile woe, which issued from
the upstairs landing, showed plainly in what
direction the nursery lay. As she opened the
door, she became aware that the atmosphere

was worse by many degrees than that of the
drawing-room, and that the small room was
positively crowded with little figures. The
nurse, a cheerful-looking person in a flannel
apron, rose to receive her, continuing to pat
the baby's back with one hand.

How do you do, nurse ?' said Elsie shyly.
Mrs. Battisley said I might come and see the
children. Are they having their tea ?' And
she looked around, wondering what had
better be her next remark.

Four or five sickly-looking children sat
at the table, eating bread and treacle, or
rather smearing it upon their cheeks ; while
one little boy, apparently the black sheep of
the flock, lay on his face on the floor, roaring
at the top of his voice, and drumming on the
carpet with his boots.

Yes, miss,' said the nurse, ' we are at tea.
Master Cyril, stop that noise this moment.
Miss Genevieve, take your fingers out of your
mouth, and come and kiss the lady. You
are very fond of children, I suppose, miss ?'

Yes,' said Elsie, when she had succeeded

in finding a spot free from treacle on Miss
Genevieve's countenance ; then having, at
the nurse's bidding, gone through the Hke
ceremony with the other four, and asked their
names, she ventured to look at the baby,
which now lay quiet sucking its bottle.

It is a nice little thing,' she said. ' Is ita
boy or a girl ?'

'A girl, miss  Violet Claribel. Should
you like to old her, miss ?'

Oh, don't take away her bottle,' said
Elsie, * she likes it.'

But the nurse, having given up her chair
to Elsie, placed the baby, bottle and all, triumphantly
on her lap, and it was not until
Violet Claribel showed imminent symptoms
of choking that Elsie hastily returned her to
the nurse and took leave, without having
addressed the remark which she feared was
expected of her to Master Cyril, whose position
on the floor remained unchanged.

Lady Eleanor took her departure as soon
as Elsie came down, and heaved a long sigh
of relief when she found herself once more in

the carriage. ' Well ! ' she asked when she
had recovered a little, ' what did you think of
the children ? Did you see them all?'

Yes,' answered Elsie, ' there are a great
many. I thought them  I did not like them
very much ; but you know, Lady Eleanor, I
am not really fond of children.'

No ?' said Lady Eleanor carelessly  'no
more am L And what did you think of the
house V

I did not think it at all a nice house,'
replied Elsie with decision.

'A poky Httle place, isn't it?' said Lady
Eleanor.

Yes, and it smelt  but one ought not to
say such things,' said Elsie, checking herself.
I don't suppose poor Mrs. Battisley can help
it ; she seems to have so many troubles.'

Lady Eleanor smiled a little, but did not
speak until they had almost reached home ;
then she turned to Elsie and said very seriously
: ' You have seen now what people who
marry young, and without much means, invariably
come to.'

Admonish a friend : for many times it is a slander, and believe
not every tale.'

Lady Eleanor's schemes were not so deep-laid
but that they might have been perceived
by any one less unsuspecting than Elsie.
Furthermore, she could do nothing without a
confidant. She did not take any of her
nieces into her counsels ; Rosamond was too
sharp - sighted for her, and Constance and
Blanche too much occupied with themselves.
Her plans and wishes were therefore reserved
for her husband's somewhat heedless ears ;
and she took very good care that he should
be her sole companion on her drive to Roxbury
the next day.

Elsie had no letter from David this
morning, Frederick,' she remarked when she

was seated beside her husband in his mail-phaeton.


Indeed ? What do you infer from that,
my dear Eleanor ?'

Why, it is now three weeks since she has
had a letter, and if she were to take offence,
and a coolness were to arise, I really don't
think the girl would be to blame.'

Some unforeseen cause ' began Mr.

Fitzgerald.

Oh, nonsense ! it has been a foolish engagement
from beginning to end, and if she
takes my advice she will break it off I
would just as soon now, for her own sake,
she did not get a letter  she will only be the
more disappointed afterwards.'

Disappointed if David marries the young
lady in India ? I cannot think that would bea
desirable connection.'

How stupid you are, Frederick ! I declare
one might as well talk to a  caravan ! '
said Lady Eleanor, whose eye had roamed
over the surrounding prospect until it lighted
on a suitable comparison. ' I should hope I

knew David better than to suppose there is a
grain of truth in that ridiculous story of Mrs.
Freeman's. I merely mean that I consider
Elsie Ross totally unsuitable for David in
every way. She is a very nice girl  I don't
wish to detract from any one. If Lionel were
a year or two older '

Lionel !' exclaimed Mr. Fitzgerald. ' My
dear Eleanor, why, he is only eighteen,
and as idle and careless a young scapegrace
'

Lionel was nineteen in June, and you
need not raise your voice so much  you will
frighten the horses. I only say, if he were
a year or two older. And I say it, to show
how little personal feeling I have on the
subject. My children's good is the only
thing / consider.'

Nothing more was said on the matter
until they had finished their business in
Wroxbury ; then Lady Eleanor laid her
hand upon the reins 

Let us go this way, and avoid the High
Street,' she said. 'It is a short cut, though

it is dirty, and I am perished with cold ; do
let us get home quickly.'

Mr. Fitzgerald obeyed, and they had reached
the outskirts of the town, when he suddenly
pulled up with an expression of annoyance 

Dear ! I forgot to call at the post-ofEce.
How could we neglect such an important
piece of work ? Had we gone through the
High Street, as I wished, this would not
have happened.'

It was rather stupid, Frederick,' said his
wife complacently, ' but it can't be helped
now. You are not going to turn in this
narrow lane ! I cannot have it  the horses
will rear, and we shall be upset, besides, what
does it matter?'

But the afternoon letters,' said Mr. Fitzgerald,
' and there is still a chance of Miss
Ross hearing from David, you said.'

No, there is not ; at least, it is most
unlikely. My letter to David is half written,
and will have to be posted to-night. I can't
have her mind unsettled any more. Drive
on, I insist upon it.'

Mr. Fitzgerald did not, in truth, care to
have the trouble of turning back, especially
as the light was waning and the roads beginning
to freeze ; so he drove on, after again
bemoaning his forgetfulness.

You need not tell Elsie Ross you forgot
the letters,' said his wife, when they drew up
at the hall door. ' She would think it so
unfeeling of you  which it was, perhaps ; but
she can quite well wait till tomorrow morning.'

On going indoors, Lady Eleanor found
Elsie sitting in the parlour with Rosamond
and little Mona. The child had brought
out her favourite picture-book, Struwelpeter,
which had been one of Lionel's nursery
treasures, to show to Elsie, who was reading
the rhymes aloud to her. She stopped, and
looked up expectant.

Well, Aunt Eleanor,' said Rosamond,
you look cold. What have you brought
us in the way of gossip ? '

Nothing at all,' was the answer. * I did
not meet a soul I knew. It is freezing hard,
and the roads are getting quite slippery.'

No letters even ?' said Rosamond. I
am pining for home news. So is Miss Ross,
I see,' darting a keen glance at the girl.

Well, none of us have got any,' replied
her aunt shortly. ' Why, Mona, I think that
is Cousin Lionel's old book. Ask Miss Ross
to read to you about the naughty little boy
who would not eat his soup.'

Lady Eleanor's conscience smote her for
the deception she had practised, but she was
pleased to see that Elsie did not, at all
events, show her disappointment openly.
She read that story and several others, with
a smiling face, and apparent unconcern. By
and by Lady Eleanor gave her a meaning
look, observing : ' I must go to my boudoir,
and finish my letter to David;' and after a
short interval Elsie rose and followed her.

Lady Eleanor,' she said as she came in 
is it about that report you are writing to
David?'

Certainly,' was the reply.

Then,' said Elsie, ' I have been thinking
it over, and I would rather that you did not

say anything about me in your letter. You
see, it is right for you to ask him, as you are
his mother, but for me  I do not Hke to
seem to insult him by any suspicion, so I
would rather, please, not send a message.'

Very well, my dear,' said Lady Eleanor
rather coldly, ' I quite appreciate your
motives. It is time this went to the post,'
she added, and rang the bell. She then
hastily wrote the concluding words, adding
as a postscript, ' Elsie Ross very properly
declines to send you any message.'

Having addressed the letter, she gave it to
the servant, who stood waiting, with an injunction
to send it to the village post-office at once.

Elsie remained a minute, wondering
whether she had done right ; she almost
wished she had written to David herself,
but it was evidently too late now, besides,
she had no heart to write. She had felt so
certain of her letter coming that afternoon,
and now the darkest misgivings filled her
mind. Either David must be ill, or he had
forgotten her, and unable any longer to

repress her tears she left the boudoir hastily
and went to her own room, trying to gain
composure enough to appear as usual in the
evening. In this she succeeded pretty welland
as one or two neighbours had come in to
dinner it was easy to maintain an indifferent
conversation. But it was an unspeakable
relief when they went away, and the party
separated for the night ; when, alone with
her own thoughts, she need no longer keep
up the semblance of gaiety, when she might
cry if she liked, unheard and undisturbed.
She had scarcely had time to undress,
however, and was standing before the fire
plaiting her long hair, when she was
startled by a tap at her door. For a
moment she was frightened ; she had never
quite forgotten Lady Eleanor's remark about
noises, and her ' Come in ' was uttered tremulously.
But no ghost made its appearance ;
only a small woman's figure in a white
dressing-gown, with dark wavy hair gathered
into a thick loose plait, hanging over its
shoulders. It was Lady Seathwaite.

May I come in ?' she said. ' I am nota
very good sleeper, and if you are not tired,
I should be glad to have a chat with you.
Do you mind ?'

At any other time Elsie would have been
as much pleased as surprised by Rosamond's
voluntarily coming to sit with her ; to-night
she would have much preferred to be alone,
but made her visitor welcome, and placed
her in the big arm-chair beside the fire.

I daresay you think me very impertinent,'
said Rose, as she regarded Elsie's downcast
face ; ' but you seem to me a poor little
solitary thing, and I want to help you  if I
can. Why are you so afraid of Aunt
Eleanor, Elsie ? '

I was rather rude to her the night I
came,' replied Elsie slowly, ' because she
gave me some advice I did not like. I
thought she would be offended, although she
was not. But I am always rather afraid
of her  I don't know why; I think it is
because she is so beautiful.'

Rosamond listened with a half-amused

smile, and seemed determined to draw the
girl out.

Then you make a great mistake  not in
thinking her beautiful, for she is  no other
word would express it  but in being afraid
of her. Aunt Eleanor is not clever, you
know ; nobody minds what she says, and
no sensible person ever takes her advice.'

These last words were said emphatically,
and Elsie looked up in wonder. * Why
not ? ' she asked.

Because she would never take the
trouble to give advice unless she had some
private reason,' said Rosamond curtly. She
sat looking at the girl steadily, still with
a half-smile about the corners of her mouth,
and Elsie returned her gaze, wondering,
perplexed, and yet fascinated.

I did not take her advice,' she said ; ' at
least, only part of it. It  was about David.'

Do not tell me more than you like,'
said Lady Seathwaite, ' but if it would be
any use to you, Elsie, you may trust me
safely. I have experience'  she smiled

VOL. II. L

rather bitterly  ' and / have no motive or
scheme in the matter.'

I do trust you,' said Elsie ; * I can't help
it. I have not heard from David for three
mails '-  her voice shook in spite of herself
'and Lady Eleanor thinks  Lady Sea-thwart,
do you know anything of David ?
Can you think of any reason ? '

Rosamond looked at the girl with great
compassion, and taking both her hands, she
drew her close to her.

My poor child,' she said, ' I know
nothing of your David, except that he is
nice and a gentleman ; that I believe firmly.
So that I am not exactly prepared to espouse
the Miss Pratt theory  at least, I would
give him the benefit of the doubt, if I were
you. You have not written to break off your
engagement, have you ? '

No, no, I have not,' said Elsie, inexpressibly
comforted by Rosamond's view of the
matter ; ' I would not even send a message
in Lady Eleanor's letter, in case he might
think I suspected him.'

'She asked you to send a message, did she ?'

'Yes, she thought it would be better forme
to send a message in her letter than
to write myself.'

You don't know what she said in her
letter, of course ? '

It was about the report of his engagement
; Lady Eleanor thought it necessary to
inquire about it.'

Elsie,' said Rosamond, after a few
moments' thought, ' I don't know exactly
what to say, not knowing David very well,
but I don't somehow put much faith in this
report, which Aunt Eleanor makes so much
of. If you really don't believe it, as you say,
why not write to David as usual } '

'I wish I had,' said Elsie, 'and I thought
of putting a note instead of a message inside
Lady Eleanor's letter, but I found there was
not time.'

'Not time, child!' cried Rosamond, 'why,
the letters don't leave the village till eight
tomorrow morning. I don't believe hers is
gone yet.'

Yes it Is  she sent it to the post at once,
and was very particular about it. I certainly-understood
there was not time.'

Rosamond's next proceeding filled Elsie
with astonishment. ' This is great fun,' she
said, clapping her hands ; and, springing off
her seat, she began to execute a kind of
dance In the middle of the room. Presently
she sat down again, and patted Elsie's
cheek.

You think I am mad, I suppose,' she
said, ' but it is quite the contrary ; a light has
begun to break In upon my understanding.
Aunt Eleanor wants to make you and David
mutually disgusted with each other, and
this is the way she takes to accomplish it.'

I know she would like to break off our
engagement,' observed Elsie astutely.

Then why do you let her, you little
goose ? Write to David now, bring the
letter to my room when you have done it ;
my maid shall post it the first thing in the
morning.'

How good you are to me ! ' said Elsie 

but Stay '  laying a detaining hand upon
Rose's arm as she was about to leave the
room  ' I told Lady Eleanor I would not
write unless I heard from David : I don't
think it is quite fair to write without her
knowledge.'

You may hear by tomorrow morning's
post, since you are so scrupulous said
Rosamond. ' The letters were never called
for this afternoon ; I have made out so
much from Mr. Fitzgerald. So now I will
leave you to make up your mind.'

Elsie did not hesitate long ; she felt indignant
at being thus deceived, and wrote
as quickly as she could a short but characteristic
letter to her lover, describing her
visit to Alkerton without touching on any
of the annoyances she had met with, and
speaking warmly of Lady Seathwaite's kindness
to her. She added, that David's silence
had made her a little anxious, lest he should
perhaps be ill, but that there was no doubt
a letter for her at Chippingham, which Aunt
Caroline would forward.

Elsie would have liked, in her present
frame of mind, to confront Lady Eleanor
with this letter in her hand, and upbraid
her with her perfidy ; but this was not to
be thought of, for two reasons. In the first
place, she could not betray Rose, who would
dislike nothing more than being suspected
of helping the oppressed ; and in the second
place, she could scarcely rouse her hostess,
to say nothing of Mr. Fitzgerald, in the
middle of the night for such a purpose.
She disliked the idea of keeping the secret
from her, and yet she disliked far more the
thought that David might fancy she suspected
him. ' For if he once thinks so,'
thought Elsie, ' he must think so for ever :
I can never clear myself, for how could
I tell him that his own mother told lies
in order to separate us ? ' Something of
this she expressed to Lady Seathwaite
when she came to her room with the
letter.

Oh, child ! ' said Rosamond sadly, * I
hope I have not misled you  I hope David

Is worthy of it ; but I cannot see a creature
in a trap and not try to let it out.'

How could you guess it ? ' asked Elsie.

I know Aunt Eleanor,' was the answer,
and I have had experience, as I told you.
But go to bed, little cousin, we will talk
more another time.'

They kissed each other, and Elsie retreated
noiselessly to her own room.

Though hopeless love finds comfort in despair,
It never can endure a rival's bliss !
But soft  I am observed.'

Elsie received the expected letter the next
morning, enclosed in one from Aunt Caroline.
It was written in David's usual cheerful and
light-hearted strain, and he seemed perfectly-unaware
that any evil interpretation could be
put upon his conduct. He had had a slight
touch of fever, he said, but was now all right
again. Not a word about Miss Pratt or any
other lady, but a good deal about steeplechases
and polo, and he appeared delighted
with the prospect of soon seeing active service
in Afghanistan, a joy in which Elsie
scarcely sympathised. The letter was as
affectionate as usual, or even rather more
so, and was perfectly satisfactory to its

recipient, though not, apparently, to Lady
Eleanor ; for, on Elsie's reading her portions
of it, she only remarked, with her usual
logical precision, that David's not mentioning
Miss Pratt did not prove that there was
no such person,  but rather the reverse, to
her mind. The last clause was put in as an
afterthought, in order to counteract a distinct
tone of triumph which she detected in Elsie's
voice. Lady Eleanor always made a point
of paying out, as it were, any one who had
offended her by word or deed, either immediately
or as soon after as she conveniently
could ; she never neglected it, and, it may be
presumed, looked upon it almost as a duty.
In the present case, as Lionel was expected
that day, and she was therefore in an especially
pleasant and gracious mood, it was no
spite or malice, but rather the strict principle
of justice by which her conduct was always
actuated which prompted this retort. In
spite of herself she had taken a decided fancy
to Elsie, and preferred her company to that
of any of her nieces ; the girl's very presence

in the room soothed and pleased her, and she
would have liked to have her always at hand
to listen to her grievances, and to relieve her
of small troubles. The liking was mutual ;
Elsie's former fear of Lady Eleanor showed
that she had a charm for her, and the girl
had a certain clinging affection for David's
mother which all the last night's disclosures
failed to weaken. Perhaps Elsie would have
kept her anger longer had she not reflected
that she had been a deceiver in her turn ;
but, whatever was the reason, the two were
as good friends as ever.

Now that Elsie had got rid of her fears,
and had found a friend in Lady Seathwaite,
she began to enjoy her visit thoroughly.
Constance and Blanche were now very civil
to her, and Rosamond made no secret of her
friendship. She did not talk much to Elsie
in public, but would invite her to take walks
with her, or to go with her to the nursery,
where they would hold long conferences with
little Mona for a third. Elsie soon became
fond of the child, and liked to watch and

admire her friend's pretty ways with her and
with all children, whom she seemed to understand
instinctively ; and when the little Freemanss
or other juvenile neighbours came to tea
with Mona, Rosamond generally managed to
come and play with them. At other times Elsie
talked to Rose freely, as she had never talked
to any woman before ; her innocent confidences
being received always with sympathy,
often with peals of laughter ; then Elsie
would laugh too, till any of the others who
happened to be passing would wonder how
any one co2tld be so absurd and frivolous.
For Lady Eleanor and Constance were not
mirthfully Inclined, and Blanche, though she
could not help laughing sometimes, held a
theory just then that laughter was rather
beneath the dignity of a reasonable being.
Blanche's theories were very strong at the
time, but were liable to variation.

Lionel's coming made a pleasant variety,
and he was welcomed by every one. He
brought his cousin, Lord Heathfield, with
him, a youth about his own age, who was

also at Christchurch. He was a quiet,
gentlemanlike young man, whose appearance
might be described by negatives. He was
neither tall nor short, fair nor dark, plain nor
handsome ; nothing was striking about him
except his extreme neatness and tidiness, and
his beautifully brushed hair, which he wore
parted in the middle. He was an only child,
the much loved and carefully brought up
son of Lady Eleanor's brother, the Earl of
Monmouth ; and having been singularly well
behaved from his infancy, he had always
been held up as a model for Lionel's imitation.
Lady Eleanor was, or seemed to be,
really attached to her nephew, and made
what her son was pleased to consider 'the
most unnecessary fuss ' about him. Lionel
himself appeared to be well in health, and
was overflowing with spirits. He delighted
in playing practical jokes upon Heathfield,
teasing his parents, and talking nonsense
with his cousins, while with Elsie he assumed
a brotherly and protecting air, keeping a
watchful eye on her, and reproving her if

he saw anything amiss in her conduct. He
disapproved of her intimacy with Rosamond,
whose temper, he gravely assured her, was
'diabolical;' but as Elsie observed that he
always found fault with her when she spoke
to any one except himself, she paid no heed
to his representations.

It was quite true that Rosamond, like the
rest of the family, had her moods : some days
she would be depressed, and would scarcely
speak ; at other times a teasing and malicious
spirit seemed to possess her, and she would
take delight in making the most cutting
speeches. Elsie was seldom the victim of
her sarcasms, more often they were reserved
for Lady Eleanor or her own sisters ; but
Elsie soon learnt that the mental atmosphere
at Alkerton, if not as oppressive as that of
Chippingham, could occasionally be quite as
unpleasant ; for there were days on which
Lady Eleanor was, as Lionel phrased it, ' not
to be trifled with,' Rosamond depressed, Mr.
Fitzgerald irritating and captious, Lionel
offended or morose, and the girls more or

less disagreeable. On these occasions she
longed more than ever for David, whose
cheerful, sunshiny disposition contrasted so
strangely with the cloudy, unsettled moods
of his family, and decided that David must
resemble his father, as Lionel did his mother,
in character as well as in face.

Lord Heathfield has no temper,' she
reflected, ' but then he is utterly devoid of
tact.' Still she liked talking to Heathfield,
and was pleased with his extreme politeness
and quiet unselfish ways. Lionel soon found
occasion to reprove her for this also.

'Does Lord Heathfield hunt?' she inquired
innocently enough, as she and Lionel
were watching the sunset from the lodge-gate
one afternoon, hoping that the frost would
not be too hard for hunting the next day.
Lionel, who was engaged in breaking the ice
on a cart-rut with his stick, did not answer
till Elsie repeated her question, when he
replied with severity 

You take too much interest in Heathfield ;
but if you imagine that he will be left at

home with you all day tomorrow, you are
mistaken.'

I don't imagine anything,' said Elsie
hotly ; ' but I think you are very rude, Lionel.
If you can't answer a civil question '

Be calm,' said Lionel. ' Keep your
temper, I beg. You asked me, I think, if
Lord Heathfield hunts ?'

Elsie moved a few steps away without
answering, and Lionel, pursuing her, patted
her arm soothingly.

Yes, yes, he hunts,' said he, in a mock
confidential tone. ' His parents wish him to
hunt, so he hunts. It is a duty which his
position demands  Hallo ! here he is.'

At this moment they were joined by the
unconscious subject of their remarks, who
said to Elsie 

Is it not too cold for you to be out, Miss
Ross ?  at least to loiter about ' You really
ought not, Lionel, to allow Miss Ross to get
so chilled.'

Why did you not bring her a railway rug
and a foot warmer, then ?' retorted his cousin.

You really are most thoughtless, my dear
fellow. Never go unprovided with them
where you are likely to meet a lady.'

On their way to the house Heathfield
asked Elsie if she would ride or drive to the
meet the next morning. * If you ride,' said
he, ' it would give me great pleasure to
escort you home whenever you are tired.*

Elsie replied that she hoped to ride, as
Lionel had promised to lend her his little
mare, and Constance her habit. * But you
must not think of coming back with us, Lord
Heathfield,' she said. ' Blanche and I can
surely find our own way home.'

'I assure you,' protested Heathfield, 'nothing
would give me greater pleasure.'

The frost gave way during the night, and
the next morning, though damp and foggy,
was suitable for hunting ; and Elsie put on
her habit with a feeling of pleasurable excitement.
The meet was about four miles
from Alkerton, and Lady Eleanor particularly
desired the girls to come straight back, and
not to follow the hounds, partly for fear of

accidents, and party because she did not
consider they had a sufficient escort. Blanche
promised to attend to her aunt's directions,
and Elsie, who knew nothing of hunting,
determined to avoid mistakes by keeping
close to her companion. They had to wait
some minutes for Lionel, who was usually
late, and by the time he came Blanche and
Elsie were already mounted, the former on a
steady old hunter, the latter on Lionel's little
black mare Phyllis, who fidgeted and pranced
with eagerness to be off. Heathfield, as soon
as he mounted, drew near in order to soothe
her, but Lionel speedily interfered.

Elsie,' said he in a warning voice, ' whatever
you do, don't go near Heathfield on that
mare  it is as much as his leg is worth. She
perfectly hates that horse of his, and will kick
him if you don't look out.'

I will ride with Blanche then, whose legs
are both on the other side,' said Elsie.

Hem, better ride on with me, and let
them follow. As the horse is mine, I am
willing to take the risk.'

VOL. II. M

Elsie having agreed to this magnanimous
proposal, the two rode on in front, leaving
Blanche to follow with Heathfield, and when
he thought they were out of earshot Lionel
asked her, ' Did I hear you promise to come
straight home from the meet ? '

Blanche promised, and of course I will
go back with her.'

'Well, Elsie,' said Lionel, 'attend to me.
If Heathfield offers to go back with you,
don't let him.'

Elsie looked a little puzzled. ' I don't
want him to, and I don't suppose he wants
to, but if he should insist upon it, how can I
prevent him ? '

'Any well-brought-up girl would know
how to prevent him,' said Lionel, with a
severely virtuous air. ' It would be most
improper, and I wonder how you could
let him make the proposal. May I ask
what amuses you .? ' as Elsie broke into a
laugh.

Oh, Lionel, don't be offended ; you are
always being offended, and it is so tiresome

but the idea of Lord Heathfield doing anything
improper was too much for me ! '

'Well, it is not your fault if he doesn't,'
said Lionel. ' You needn't go on like that,'
he continued sulkily ; ' you don't suppose it is
pleasant for me to have to speak to you in this
way. As David's brother, it is my painful
duty to  to be in a position to  take her
short by the head, she is going to shy at that
muck-heap  to advise you.'

Lionel,' said Elsie, ' it is no part of your
duty to David to find fault with me every
minute like this. He never did it himself,
and I don't believe he would wish it done.'

Never did it himself!' said Lionel, raising
his eyes to heaven. ' Merciful Providence !
what will she say next ? David is an awfully
particular beggar about certain things, and
you know you were always fighting at St.
Leonardss, if I remember right. Wait till
you are married. I shudder, Elsie '  here
Lionel shook convulsively in his saddle, and
turned a solemn gaze upon his companion  ' I
shudder when I think of those domestic broils.*

Elsie only laughed gaily, and this time
Lionel did not chide her merriment. After
a while he said 

If you really want to go back directly I 
I will go with you myself, if you like.'

Dear boy,' said Elsie, much touched by
this act of self-sacrifice, ' do not think of such
a thing  you, who are so fond of hunting !
I would rather follow you all day and tumble
off half a dozen times.'

Would you ? ' said Lionel, his face lighting
up. 'Then come on. No fear of your
tumbling off, you really sit very fairly well,
considering.  Hallo ! we are late  the hounds
are gone, but I know what cover they are
drawing. Follow me, never mind the
others.'

At this moment, however, they heard the
galloping of horses behind them, and the
other two rode up.

'You see, Lionel,' said Heathfield, 'that
you have made us late. We waited full ten
minutes at the door for you, and now we
have lost the hounds.'

Lost your grandmother !' retorted Lionel.
They are all down at that cover, as you may
see if you use your eyes. Follow me, all of
you  we'll take a short cut,' and so saying
Lionel leaped the ditch into an adjoining
field, followed promptly by Elsie.

Heathfield attempted a remonstrance, to
which Blanche replied, ' Stuff and nonsense !
I'm not going home without seeing something,
at any rate.'

At that moment the fox must have broken
cover, for the hounds, giving tongue, streamed
away, followed by the whole field. The line
Lionel had taken soon placed him among
the foremost riders, and Elsie kept close to
him as long as she could. The little mare
was so well trained that she had no difficulty
in managing her, and the girl at first forgot
everything in the excitement of the hunt.
By and by, however, she remembered
Blanche and her promise to Lady Eleanor,
and drawing back a little to look for the
others, she lost sight of Lionel. Still she
followed the stream of hunters ; they were

now going through some very heavy ground,
and as they passed through a gap Into a cart
road she became aware, by a clinking sound,
that one of PhylHs's shoes was loose, and
presently it flew off altogether with a ringing
noise. In distress she pulled up, and looked
round, not knowing exactly what to do ;
one rider after another passed her, Blanche
among them, spattering her with mud as
they went by ; but she did not see Heath-field
anywhere.

They had all passed now, Elsie stood up
in her stirrup, and surveyed the country in all
directions  not a creature was in sight. ' There
Is only one thing to be done now,' thought
she, 'and that is to go home. If I could
only find my way to the village we passed
through ; there is sure to be a blacksmith's
forge there, and they could put on the shoe.'

She dismounted, picked up the shoe, and
hung It on to the pommel of her saddle, then
led Phyllis back to the field they had just
quitted, picking her way cautiously amongst
the mud-holes. Between the road and the

field was a stile, by means of which she
managed with some difficulty to get on again,
and then rode gently back, looking out for
gaps and carefully avoiding stony places.
The way seemed long, but she did succeed
in reaching the village at last, and in finding
the smith, who undertook to set all to rights
in a very short time.

Elsie took all this very philosophically,
but rather disliked waiting in the village,
where she was an object of so much interest
to all the idlers, and where several well-disposed
persons were anxious to prove that she
was severely hurt, had been thrown from her
horse, and required instant medical assistance.
Having, after what seemed to bean
interminable time, got rid of these philanthropists
and found herself again in the
saddle, she proceeded joyfully on her way,
and was not far from Alkerton when she met
Heathfield, who rode hastily towards her
with a countenance full of anxiety.

Miss Ross ! thank heaven you are safe !
I trust you have met with no accident V

Phyllis cast a shoe,' replied Elsie with
composure. ' I had to take her to the
smithy. I am sorry you were looking forme,
Lord Heathfield.'

I have been distracted with anxiety on
your account,' said Heathfield pathetically.
The moment I missed you I turned and
searched for you everywhere. Lionel, careless
fellow ! never once looked behind him,
and Blanche, I sadly fear, has quite forgotten
her promise to my aunt, and has gone on
with him. But now that you are safe my
worst anxiety is assuaged.'

They reached Alkerton about three o'clock,
and Elsie was rather coldly received by Lady
Eleanor, who marked her displeasure not by
saying anything to her, but by extolling
Heathfield's noble conduct in giving up his
own hunting to look for her, which served
to render the offences of the rest blacker by
contrast.

Finding that Rosamond and Constance
had goneTout, Elsie changed her habit, put
on her walking things, and went out in hopes

of meeting them. This she failed to do, nor
did she meet Lionel and Blanche, who came
in during her absence ; but before long she
was joined by Heathfield, who entertained
her with his conversation for nearly an hour
and a half. Heathfield was very quiet in
general society, but when he found a sympathetic
listener his flow of talk never ceased,
and Elsie was amused by the simplicity of
his confidences. He described his home to
her, and became eloquent on the subject of
his parents' goodness and wisdom. This was
the first Christmas in his life, he touchingly
observed, that he had ever been separated
from them, but they were then abroad, and it
was their wish that he should accept their invitation
to Alkerton, and endeavour to cultivate
a little of his cousin Lionel's taste for
field-sports.

'And I cannot regret having come, Miss
Ross, since I have had the pleasure of making
your acquaintance. You understand me
so well ! How I wish you knew my mother;
but you will be sure to see her when you

come to Lyn Court, which you will do, I
hope, before very long, when she is able to
claim you as a  as one of the family.'

Heathfield here lowered his voice, indelicate
and confidential allusion to Elsie's
approaching marriage with David, and as
such she understood it.

Thank you. Lord Heathfield,' she answered
; ' I  hope so.'

His words, however, bore a different
meaning to a listener who was concealed
behind the bushes, for they were now passing
through the shrubbery on their way to the
house. Lionel and Blanche had come in
about half an hour before, and after a good
scolding from Lady Eleanor, to which neither
of them paid much attention, Lionel had
demanded where Elsie was.

There is no saying where she might
have been,' was his mother's answer, ,' if dear,
unselfish Basil had not brought her in  at
the bottom of some ditch, most likely. None
of you seem to consider,' she added, turning
to Blanche, 'how exceedingly unpleasant it

is for me to sit waiting here all day, expecting
every moment to see you girls brought
in on shutters, with your necks broken.'

'Where is Elsie, then,' asked Lionel, 'since
she is neither in a ditch nor on a shutter ?'

Gone out walking, I believe ; she can
never sit quiet for two minutes together.'

Lionel, upon this, went out to find Elsie,
and demand an explanation of her conduct
in leaving him. He had not gone many
steps from the house before he caught sight
of her and Heathfield pacing slowly along in
the dusk, apparently in earnest conversation,
and so engrossed with one another that they
did not see him. This sight made him so indignant
that he hastily turned into a side-walk
to avoid them ; then something Heathfield
said arrested his attention, and he listened
eagerly, but only caught the last few sentences,
after which their voices became indistinct.

On returning to the house Elsie went to
the nursery to visit little Mona, who was in
bed with a bad cold, and whilst she was
with her Lionel came in. Mona was very

fond of her cousin Lionel, who was always
very kind and gentle with her. He sat
down on the bed and began to talk and play
with the child as usual ; but when Elsie, who
supposed he had not seen her, asked him if
he had had a good day's sport, he first took
no notice at all, and then affected not to hear.

I beg your pardon, Miss Ross, did you
speak ?' he said at length, when Mona had
called his attention to the fact that Elsie was
addressing him. Elsie, thoroughly provoked
at his caprices, left the nursery presently, and
laid wait for him at the foot of the stair,
resolved, as she said to herself, ' to give him
a good talking to ' as soon as he came down.
She had to nurse her wrath for about ten
minutes, at the end of which time Lionel
strolled leisurely out of the nursery, and was
at once confronted by his cousin.

Lionel, what is the meaning of this ? I
never saw such a boy as you are ! What
have I done to offend you now . '

You needn't pretend that you don't know
that.'

I couldn't help leaving you,' said Elsie.
Was it my fault that Phyllis cast a shoe ?
You ought to have seen that they were put
on tighter

Cast a shoe, did she ? ' said Lionel.
'Well, no doubt Heathfield's horse cast a
shoe too } '

No, no ! I never even saw Lord Heath-field
until just as I was coming home. If
you would only let me explain to you,
Lionel.'

If you were to explain from now till
tomorrow morning, it would make no difference,'
said Lionel. 'When I think of the
way you have behaved since '

I have done nothing since, except go fora
walk.'

With Heathfield.'

No, I met him.'

That was very curious,' said Lionel with
a sneer. ' And it was quite an accident his
proposing to you, of course.'

Lionel, I don't think you are in your
right mind. He never proposed to me  he

would as soon think of proposing to that
gong ! '

Nevertheless said Lionel, unmoved by
this strong figure of speech, * he did propose
to you. I heard him with my own ears.'

He did not'

He did ! He did it in the shrubbery
about half an hour ago.'

Elsie could only cast up her eyes and
sigh. ' Well,' she said despairingly, ' / didn't
hear him.'

That was a pity,' said Lionel sarcastically.

He began to be a little staggered, and to
think that possibly he had put a wrong interpretation
upon what he had heard, but he
would not let this appear for the world.

'And since when,' said Elsie, * have
your ears become so sharp that you hear
things '

Which were not intended for them,* put
in Lionel.

No, which never happened. Where were
you, perhaps, when you heard this ? '

Behind the laurel bushes in the shrubbery,'



replied Lionel, fixing a stern look upon
her.

And do you consider it the part of an
honourable young man to skulk behind
bushes to listen to people's proposals ? '

I only heard one,' said Lionel, moving
away. ' I'll do you the justice to say I did
not hear you propose to Heathfield  I daresay
you did though.'

Oh, indeed ! ' said Elsie in high indignation,
and turning, she walked off to the
library to join the rest.

Lionel's morose looks when he made his
appearance there also were attributed by his
family to hunger, but neither tea nor buttered
muffins had power to soothe his sullen mood.
After tea his cousins asked him to play to
them, which he ungraciously refused to do,
and retired into a corner with a book. The
others took no notice of him, nor did they
seem to be affected by his ill-humour ; all,
including Elsie, looking perfectly happy and
comfortable. Rosamond, who seemed in
unusually high spirits that afternoon, was

sitting on the rug with her back to the fire,
talking with animation, and so amusingly
that quite a circle of listeners collected round
her. She was describing a visit which she
and Constance had just paid at the parsonage,
and her clever mimicry kept the others in fits
of laughter, until Lady Eleanor, not seeing
any fun in it herself, put a stop to it.

You are always turning up your nose at
the people about here, Rosamond,' said she.
I cannot see that they are any better about
Seathwaite  worse, I should say  decidedly
more vulgar. Besides, I do not think it right
to laugh at a clergyman ; it is forbidden
somewhere in the Bible, I think  at any rate
I don't think it right.'

Dear Aunt Eleanor, how good you are !
I wish we were all as well versed in the
Scriptures. I am sorry you don't like my
stories, for now I am going to tell you
another one  listen ! ' and Rosamond began
another anecdote, at which even Lady
Eleanor could not help laughing a little, but
Lionel still sat gloomily reading, his book

upside down, and Heathfield looked a little
disapproving.

Dear Basil,' said Lady Eleanor, ' now
get some nice book and read to us. You
used to repeat poetry so charmingly when
you were a little boy. I never could get
Lionel to care for it.'

Heathfield said he was accustomed to read
aloud in the evening to his parents, and
would be glad to oblige his aunt in any way
she pointed out.

A question now arose as to what poetry
should be read aloud. Some one suggested
Tennyson, but Heathfield, after a search in
the shelves, brought out a volume of Wordsworth,
which he recommended as being
more chaste.' He really read well, and thus
the hour before dinner passed pleasantly
enough to all but Lionel, who, after listening
to the first few lines, rose and left the room
with dignity.

Lady Eleanor began to feel a little anxious
about the state of her son's health ; his boyish
illnesses used often to be preceded by fits of

VOL. II. N

ill-humour, but she had hoped that he had
outgrown them. She came to his room
before dinner, and spoke to him seriously
about his rudeness during his cousin's reading.
Dear Heathfield is too good-tempered even
to seem put out, but really, Lionel, you were
quite insulting. It was as if you could not
bear to listen, and I am sure nothing could
be nicer.'

Lionel, in reply, informed his mother that
it was one of his principles never to listen
to rot'  so he designated his cousin's favourite
poems ; he found it deteriorated his whole
moral nature ; then abruptly changing the
subject, he besought her to put a stop to the
flirtation which was going on between Heath-field
and Elsie. Lady Eleanor laughed at
him.

I don't see that there is anything going
on,' she said, 'and if there were, it is no
affair of yours. You can't be well, Lionel,
or you would not be so fanciful. I hope you
have not been hanging over Mona. Have
you any feeling of sore throat ?'

Lionel had been standing before the glass
in his shirt-sleeves whilst his mother was
speaking ; he now turned round upon her
with flashing eyes, and a hair-brush in each
hand. ' Of course I have!' he replied, 'it
is enough to give anybody a sore throat to
see the way they go on ; but you have none
of you any proper feeling. I am sure I don't
know what Heathfield's blessed parents will
say to you, and as for David '

Lionel, dear, you are too foolish ; don't
excite yourself so. Elsie is going home in a
day or two, and if Heathfield is a little taken
with her, it will do him no harm. He is only
nineteen, you know ; but come, there is the
dinner gong ; do not dawdle, Lionel, you
know your father hates you to be late.'

'Odd,' thought Lady Eleanor as she went
downstairs, 'all the young men are quite
foolish about that girl. There is Lionel
now quite jealous of Heathfield. Well, she
would make a nice little daughter-in-law, if
only it were Lionel instead of David. It is
those clever women that I cannot stand who

are always seeing things that are not
there.'

This last reflection was suggested by
Rosamond, who had come downstairs behind
her, and who said, as she smilingly put an
arm round her neck, *A penny for your
thoughts, Aunt Eleanor! I can see you
are revolving some dark scheme in your
brain.'

Lionel did not speak to Elsie during the
whole of that evening, and this made her
very unhappy, as she expected to leave
Alkerton In two days, and It might be long
before she saw him again. The next morning
she looked anxiously for some signs of
relenting ; he avoided her studiously, but
more, she thought, from pride than from
ill-will, and seeing him loitering aimlessly
about in the shrubbery, she resolved to make
it up with him.

Lionel, dear,' said she affectionately, putting
her arm within his, 'what o'clock Is it ?'

Lionel regarded her with a suppressed
smile of triumph, and pulled out his watch.

It is now,' said he, 'the witching hour often
minutes to one. What is your reason for
asking ? '

'Only,' said Elsie, 'that you said once
you would show me the pigs, and I thought
there might be time before luncheon.'

'Come on then,' said Lionel with alacrity,
and pulling his cap over his forehead, he set
out at a good pace.

The others watched them from the windows
with some amusement, knowing that
they had not been on speaking terms ; for
it was a standing joke that the two were
always quarrelling, and yet never could be
separated, and although they might go forth
apparently the best of friends, they were apt
to fall out by the way, and if they came in
together (which they rarely did), it was
generally with the width of the road between
them. Lionel now walked off through
the muddy fields so fast that it was difficult
for Elsie, who had to pick her steps, to keep
up with him.

Come along, Elsie,' said he admonishingly.

' If you really want to see the pigs,
there must be no stopping to look about you.
Mind your feet  it's a little damp just here.'

He marched on through a perfect sea of
mud, which lay at the entrance of the farm
enclosure, and when he reached the other
side, cast a look back to see whether his
companion would venture to follow ; but perceiving
that Elsie, having ' kilted ' her dress,
was prepared to encounter the passage without
a murmur, he relented, and desired her
to wait until he laid down a plank for her to
step on. He then opened the door of a yard,
and they found themselves in the presence of
a company of curious-looking red-haired pigs
with black spots, which collected round them,
grunting and squeaking.

Well, what do you think of them ?' asked
Lionel.

Elsie was doubtful. ' I am not a very
good judge of pigs,' she said. ' If they were
cattle I should know better ; but I don't think
them so handsome as the Berkshire pigs my
father keeps.'

That's all you know about it ! ' returned
Lionel. ' This is the genuine old English
swine, descended from the herd which Garth
and Wamba kept, beneath these spreading ' 
here he looked up, but as there were no oaks
above his head, or any other trees, he substituted
 ' skies. Come and look at the young
ones.'

He opened the door of a little thatched
shed, where lay the mother sow surrounded
by her family.

Ah, these are pretty ! ' cried Elsie, ' they
are the colour of tortoiseshell kittens  and
what active little beasts. Poor old lady ! ' 
addressing the sow affectionately. ' Lend me
your stick, Lionel, till I scratch her back.'

Till you scratch her back ! ' said Lionel,
turning away his head in affected disgust, ashe
yielded up his cane. 'What a fearful
Scotticism ! '

Oh, Lionel ! ' said Elsie rather inattentively,
as she leaned forward to reach the
sow's other side ; ' you know I never speak
Scotch.'

They were half-way on their walk home
before Elsie suddenly observed with complacency,
* I am generally taken for an
Englishwoman.'

Oh, are you ? ' said Lionel. ' Now, I
daresay David told you that  there's nothing
that fellow won't say. I wouldn't have the
lies he tells upon my conscience if you paid
me ! ' and Lionel put his head back, and
snuffed the air with a proud consciousness of
integrity.

Lionel ! ' said Elsie firmly, ' I cannot allow
you to say things like that about David, even
in fun. It is not even as if he were in this
country. If you wish to abuse David, you
must walk with somebody else.'

But Lionel only walked on smiling, and
declined to quarrel. He possessed his
mother's stern sense of justice, which led him
to pay Elsie out for her former offence, but
this done, he considered that she was punished
sufficiently.

Before the days of change still is it so ;
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
Ensuing danger ; as by proof we see
The waters swell before a boisterous storm.
But leave it all to God.'

Elsie had fully intended returning to Chip-gingham
for Christmas ; but she was so beset
with entreaties to remain, that she wrote to
Aunt Caroline for another week's leave of
absence, which was graciously accorded to
her. She was glad of this, for she had
rather disliked the idea of Christmas at
Chippingham, with all its bustle of church
decorations, school treats, and parish teas.
Last year she had quite enjoyed them, for
David had been there, but she dreaded going
through it all without him, and being condoled
with by all her friends on this circumstance.
A day or two before Christmas an addition

to the party at Alkerton arrived in the person
of Mr. Douglas Ferrars, Constance Mortimerss
accepted suitor. He was a wealthy, middle-aged
man, a successful barrister, and possessed
besides of a good private fortune.
Lady Eleanor always spoke of him as a
very civil little man,' and this described him
well. He had no turn for field sports of any
kind, and as he did not smoke, he usually sat
with the ladies, and took walks with Constance,
to whom he behaved with great deference.
Neither Rosamond nor Blanche seemed to
have much regard for their future brother-in-law,
indeed Rose was often exceedingly
rude to him, and he disliked her proportionally.
But every one else tolerated him, and
Constance was filled with serene self-importance,
and, it is to be presumed, returned the
politely expressed affection of \ir fiancd.

It was Christmas Eve, and a bright frosty
afternoon. The engaged pair had gone fora
walk, and the others had waited to give
them a start, and collected at the window to
watch and comment upon them as they issued

forth. Lady Eleanor, entering the Library,
found them thus employed.

Now I call it perfectly disgraceful of you
all to stand spying upon poor Constance in
that way,' she said. ' How would you like it
yourselves ? It is nothing but idle, vulgar
curiosity  I am sure Mr. Ferrars is most
harmless. If you really want something todo,
I wish some of you, at least, would walk
to Bulcote and inquire for Mr. Freeman, he
has got erysipelas in his face.'

All declared their willingness to start on
this errand, but as they said they were too
large a party, each eagerly proposed to bethe
one to stay at home. At length Rosamond
and Elsie set out, escorted by Lionel,
while Heathfield and Blanche went to see if
the ice on the pond would soon be fit for
skating.

Do you think we need go in ? ' said
Rosamond. ' Won't it do just to inquire at
the door ? '

Elsie thought it would, but Lionel, to his
cousins' surprise, insisted on going in, to

which they yielded the more readily, as it
was impossible to make the faithful Blencowe
understand their questions. They found Mrs.
Freeman alone, the young people having
gone to decorate the church. She received
them with her usual simple friendliness, and
said that her husband was better, but not yet
able to see any one. At this Lionel's face
fell perceptibly.

Should you mind taking a note for me to
Lady Eleanor ? ' said Mrs. Freeman, as they
rose to go. ' I had just begun to write it as
you came in. Will you sit down a moment,
Lady Seathwaite, whilst I finish it ? I am
sorry to keep you waiting,' she said as she
wrote, ' it is about a marriage Lady Eleanor
was interested in, which has taken place in
India, but after all it is no one she knows,
my sister had made a mistake in the
name.

Lady Seathwaite turned her beautiful face,
and slowly winked her eye at Elsie, while
Lionel sat perfectly still, apparently absorbed
in thought.

Once out of the house, the three looked
at one another, and Rosamond held up the
note In triumph.

Lionel took it from her. * It is impossible,*
said he with solemnity, ' to stand this state of
suspense any longer. For Elsie's sake, it Is
absolutely necessary to know what is inside.'
And so saying, he calmly tore open the note,
and been to read it aloud.

Elsie protested. ' Lionel, how dare you
open letters ? I  I don't need to know, I
don't want to know what is inside.' But
Lionel did not take the least notice.

Mrs. Freeman's note was somewhat unintelligible,
and was full of excuses and expressions
of regret, very hastily written, but
enclosed was a scrap of an Indian letter from
her sister, on which Lionel read 

" Miss Pratt's marriage took place last
week at the English church at"  Jumbled
it looks like  'rand I am told the bride
really looked very well, though I am not an
admirer of her style. All our efforts were
useless, as the Pratt followed the poor foolish

young man all the way to "  to  Punch 
Poon  I can't read it, never mind'  said
Lionel breaking off  'rand the father demanded
what his intentions were, so there
was no getting off I made a sadly stupid
mistake in my former letter, the bridegroom's
name is Leslie, not Lindsay ; he calls himself
Leslie of Cowiebyres, although I understand
the property Is sold. There Is a Mr.
Lindsay, also a Scotchman, in the regiment,
which may have confused me, though I
know both young men perfectly well. The
bridegroom, Mr. Norman Leslie, Is short
and red-haired ; his wife Is about three
inches taller. She Is handsome but bold-looking
; I hope they may be happy, although
for my part " '  here the sheet was torn In
two.

'What a gossip the woman must be!'
cried Rosamond. ' Well, Lionel, so you are
not to have Miss Pratt for a sister-in-law 
what a disappointment ! Now give me back
the letter.'

No, no, leave It with me, I'll explain It

to my mother. I'll just go on in front, and
set her mind at rest ; you follow at your own
pace,' and Lionel started off at headlong
speed.

'He is up to some mischief,' said Rosamond
shrewdly, ' but never mind. Aunt
Eleanor deserves it.'

Will she be angry at his opening the
letter ?' asked Elsie.

Not a bit ; she might have been if anyone
else had done it, but Lionel may do ashe
pleases.'

When they reached the house they found
Lady Eleanor in a state of considerable perturbation,
not having yet deciphered Mrs.
Freeman's note, and having been assured by
her son that that lady had given them a
circumstantial account of David's marriage
with Miss Pratt, which had just been solemnised
by the Bishop of Calcutta, the bride's
father keeping a drawn sword in his hand
during the ceremony, to prevent any attempt
at escape on the part of the bridegroom.

Thus Lady Eleanor's little scheme was

entirely frustrated and turned against herself,
and she began to think seriously that she
had better let David and Elsie alone for the
future, and that, after all, it was very wrong
to oppose the decrees of Providence. She
therefore followed her natural inclination and
was cordial, and even affectionate, to Elsie,
thus making the girl perfectly happy for the
time.

Elsie had never before spent a Christmas
Eve so pleasantly, nor amid so much laughter,
for the young people rehearsed the tableaux
which they proposed to have the next week
for the entertainment of the neighbourhood,
to their own intense amusement. Mr. Fitzgerald,
however, would not let them sit up
after twelve o'clock struck, so they all gathered
at the front door, to hear the village bells
proclaiming that it was Christmas morning,
and then went to their rooms.

Elsie stirred her fire, and sat down to
think, for she did not feel sleepy. The
house grew very quiet, the flame died away,
and the noise of the ashes falling into the

grate at last roused her, and made her think
It was high time to go to bed. She opened
the window first for a moment to look out,
and listen if she could still hear the chimes.
No ! they had stopped, but a strange sound,
strange at least at that time of night, made
her heart beat quickly. It was as if a heavy
carriage were coming rapidly up the drive 
coming nearer and nearer, with a distinct
crunching sound upon the gravel. As the
sound came close under her window, Elsie
involuntarily drew in her head and started
back, overcome with a strange terror ; then
in a moment she heard the carriage stop
before the door. She waited, expecting to
hear a bell, but there was no sound, nor any
stir in the house, and in a minute or two she
took courage to look out again into the bright
moonlight. By stretching her head far out, she
could just see the open space in front of the
door, but the black shadow cast by the porch
lay upon it, and she could distinguish nothing.
Very strange ! ' she said to herself, ' I
certainly heard it stop,' then, as she stood

VOL. II. o

musing, a sudden thought darted into her
mind, a remembrance of a story Aunt Grizel
had told her, how there was a superstition
that before a Lindsay died, a ghostly carriage
was heard at midnight, by some one connected
with the family. The very terror
of this thought gave Elsie energy. ' It must
be a real carriage,' she said, ' I must see it,'
and snatching up a light, she dashed down
the stairs to the front door. It was locked
and barred, and rather than waste time in
undoing the fastenings, she hurried into the
smoking-room, which was on the ground-floor,
and one of the windows looked out
upon the entrance. She went behind the
curtain, undid the shutter hastily, and flung
it open ; but everything was still and quiet,
and a light covering of new-fallen snow lay
on the gravel, which was unmarked by wheel
or hoof-print.

Elsie staggered back into the room, where
she had left her candle burning on the table :
a tall, dark figure had risen from an armchair,
and was standing beside it.

She shrieked, but the next moment Lionel's
voice reassured her. ' Elsie ! Elsie, is that
you ? By Jove, I thought you were a ghost !
Has anything frightened you ? '

'Oh, Lionel!' gasped Elsie, clinging to
his arm in her terror, ' how you startled me !
Why are you not in bed ?'

I fell asleep, I suppose,' said Lionel. ' Is
it late ? how beastly cold it is ! but you  you
are shaking all over, and your hands are like
ice. What is the matter, Elsie ?'

'I  heard rather an odd noise,' said
Elsie, trying to recover herself ' I thought
it was '

Burglars ?'

'No, a carriage coming up the avenue,
but it wasn't one really.'

Elsie fancied that Lionel gave a slight
start when she mentioned the carriage, but
his face did not change. He went to the
window and looked out ; then, without a
word, he carefully fastened the shutter again.'

I'll tell you what's the matter with you,
Elsie,' said he, ' your nerves have completely

gone to the dogs. You've been drinking too
much tea, that's what plays puck with the
nerves.'

He Ht another candle, which he gave her,
took hers, which was nearly burnt to the
socket, for himself, and still holding her
hand, he gravely led her upstairs, as if she
had been a child. Had Elsie not seen
Lionel she would scarcely have dared to go
back to her room, but would have wakened
Rose, or one of her sisters ; but this meeting
with him had driven away all ghostly terrors
from her mind. She went to bed and slept,
but her rest was disturbed by a curiously
vivid dream, and she woke again before it
was light. She had just fallen into a most
refreshing slumber when it was time to getup,
and therefore did not appear downstairs
until most of the party had finished breakfast,
and discussed the news of the day.

I am sorry to be so late on Christmas
morning, Lady Eleanor,' she said. *Am I
the very last ? No, Lionel is not down.'

Poor Lionel seems to have taken one of

his bad sore throats,' said Lady Eleanor. ' I
knew it was coming on some time ao ; it is
very odd how misfortunes always come together.'


Elsie did not like to ask what other misfortune
had occurred, she felt sure that whatever
it was, every one was tired of the subject
by that time ; so she finished her breakfast in
silence, the rest of the party being engrossed
in their Christmas cards.

As they left the room, however, she
lingered to ask Lady Eleanor how Lionel
was.

Oh, well, I don't think he is very bad,
my dear, but it is provoking his taking these
sore throats ; I thought he had outgrown
them. By the bye, he wanted to see you,
Elsie, but you will have to get ready for
church now, I think you are late as it is.
You will find him sitting in my boudoir when
you come home.'

Elsie missed Lionel sadly during the walk
to church, which was in a village called
Monk's Leighton, half-way between i\lkerton

and Bulcote. It was a fine old church, and
its outside left nothing to be desired ; within,
it was fitted with old-fashioned, high, square
pews, which took away from the idea of its
size and grandeur. The pews, moreover,
smelt damp and musty ; and the congregation
had to be content with very hard cushions
and very dirty old straw hassocks. All the
way up the aisle they trod on gravestones,
and on the church wall, inside the pew, there
was a monumental slab, which recorded the
virtues of generations of deceased Pophams.
These were obscured, however, on the present
occasion, by the garlands of holly and
ivy with which the church was festooned.

The Freemans were there in force, even
Mr. Freeman, his face bound up in a red
silk handkerchief, had bravely ventured forth
to do honour to Christmas Day.

Elsie would have enjoyed the service
more had she not felt like a sheep in a pen,
owing to the inconvenient number which
were crowded into the high square pew.
She sat next to Heathfield, who sang lustily,

but very much out of tune, and insisted on
sharing his hymn-book with her. Mr.
Douglas Ferrars sat opposite, and seemed
much embarrassed as to how to dispose of
his hat ; when seated, he nursed it affectionately
upon his knees, and when obliged
to rise, he placed it carefully on the floor,
and was evidently very nervous lest somebody
should kneel upon it. Had Lionel
been present, he would have been tempted
to do so accidentally, and Elsie began to
think that, after all, his absence was not an
unmitigated evil.

She went to see him as soon as they
reached home, and found him sitting by the
fire in his mother's boudoir, which was carefully
screened from draughts. It opened into
Lady Eleanor's bedroom, and she looked in
as Elsie entered.

Don't let him talk much, Elsie,' she said
anxiously, 'he ought to be in bed. Just feel
his hand  how feverish. Lionel, dear boy,
are you sure you don't feel chilly ? Well,
Elsie may stay and amuse you for half

an hour, but pray don't excite him, my
dear.'

'Elsie,' said Lionel, 'if it would lessen
your anxiety to feel my pulse, I give you
leave.' Then as Lady Eleanor left the room,
he went on quickly, ' No, don't let us waste
time that way. How are yozi this morning,
Elsie, and have you heard any more carriages
?'

Oh, Lionel ! was it that open window
which gave you cold ? I am so sorry.'

Nonsense ! lucky for me you came in, or
I might have been sleeping in that arm-chair
now. But tell me the whole story.'

Elsie, willing to humour him, told him all
that she had thought she heard.

And so you thought it was the Corinzean
coach ?'

I could not help thinking of it, but I did
not know you knew the story.'

Of course I know the story,' said Lionel.
Have not David and I been 'heaved " with
it, as our old nurse Bailie would have said,
ever since we were babies in arms .? but I

should have thought you had more sense
than to believe such rot.'

I never thought before whether I believed
it or not. Aunt Grizel said she didn't,
but it always sounded very awful as she told
it. If I had been " heaved " with it like you,
perhaps I should have thought it nonsense
too.'

'And what was your version, then ?'

'Once,' said Elsie, 'there was an old
Lord Corinzean who was very wicked. I
don't know when he lived. Aunt Grizel
thought it was sixteen hundred and something,
but she wasn't sure. He had some
deadly enemies ; and one day when he was
driving in his coach between Brechin and
Forfar '

My story says King's Kettle and Falkland
 but go on.'

Two of his enemies laid wait to murder
him, and each of them put in his pistol
through the opposite coach-windows, and
shot him dead where he sat. And then they
set him bolt upright on the cushions, and

told the coachman to drive home to Corns
Castle, and not to say a word for his
life. And when he got to the castle, his
lady came down to the door, and when she
looked into the coach, there was her husband's
dead body sitting in it. And she gave
one shriek, and became a raving maniac ! '

'A gibbering idiot, my story says,' observed
Lionel, 'but I see we're agreed on
the main points.'

Your story is more likely to be the
correct one,' said Elsie, after thinking a
minute, 'because Corinzean Castle is south
of the Tay, and the coachman could not
drive across the water.'

That is a mere detail,' said Lionel, ' but
proceed.'

'And since ever that awful night,' continued
Elsie, unconsciously imitating her
Aunt Grizel, ' a coach and four drives up to
Corinzean Castle at the dead hour of the
night  but it leaves no mark upon the gravel.
And they say it may be seen and heard at
other places, by any one who is of kin to the

Lindsayss  but then it goes before a death.
That is the way Aunt Grizel always ended,'
said Elsie, ' but it was not easy to get her to
begin. And she used to say " Hoots, nonsense!"
and get quite cross if I questioned
her about it.'

Be sure you say nothing to the mother
about having heard a carriage,' said Lionel.
She hates the story like poison, and it
would put her in a mortal fright. She would
think it was the Corinzean coach whenever
any one came to call.'

*You ought not to talk, Lionel,' said
Elsie. ' Is your throat very sore ?'

Rather. I shan't be able to go to old
Ardvoira's funeral, which is a blessing.'

I did not know he was dead,' said Elsie,
startled.

What, didn't you hear ? the news came
this morning. I ought to congratulate you,
for of course Ardvoira is David's now.'

Ah, don't ! ' said Elsie, shuddering.
Lionel, perhaps that noise might have
meant him.'

Much more likely it meant me,' replied
Lionel cheerfully. ' He was not a Lindsay,
but a Macdonald ; besides he must have
been dead some time before you heard It.'

Do you know the Corlnzean people,
Lionel ? Are any of them likely to die ?'

I hope they will,' replied Lionel, ' on
David's account, but I fear they won't. His
present lordship is subject to d. t.'s, I believe,
and his son, the Master, takes epileptic fits.
The Corinthians have always drunk like
fishes ; It is to be hoped David won't take to
It, but I think it only right to mention '

Now, Lionel, you have talked quite
enough. I am going.'

No, I haven't  don't go. The mother
will come back  never fear, and turn you
out. Tell me some more ghost stories, I
am just In the humour,' and Lionel laid
himself back comfortably, and arranged a
pillow under his head.

I don't know any more,' said Elsie, ' but
I will tell you an odd dream I had last night ;
generally one forgets dreams, but I remember

this one distinctly. I was at Rossiee, lying ina
bed there, but somehow it did not seem to
be my own room ; and I saw Euphemia and
Marjorie sitting over a fire, whispering together
and crying  but I could not hear what
they said. And suddenly a carriage drove
up to the door, and a bell rang  twice. And
they were frightened, and I awoke. Then I
went to sleep again, and dreamt the same
thing : that I was at Rossiee, and somebody
sat in the room crying, but this time it was
your mother. And she cried bitterly, and
wrung her hands, and I wanted to get to
her and comfort her, but I could not, because
there was something between. And then
somehow I was out of doors, and although
it was dark I could see everything perfectly
well ; the Michaelmas daisies were in flower
it must have been autumn  and they reminded
me that I was dead. And I felt so
light and happy, and said, "How foolish to
be troubled about anything, because of course
I am dead." '

Why should Michaelmas daisies remind

you that you are dead ?' Inquired Lionel, not
unnaturally.

'I don't know,' said Elsie, 'except that
they always do remind me of graves ; they
grow in the churchyard at St. Ethernans. It
was an odd dream, was it not ? '

I see nothing odd about it,' said Lionel
discontentedly ; ' a common domestic nightmare.
It was the natural consequence of
rushing about the house in that idiotic way 
you must have eaten something which disagreed
with you.'

Here comes your mother,' said Elsie.
She will scold me for letting you talk.'

Lionel, dear,' said Lady Eleanor, ' what
could you take for luncheon  a little soup ?
Do go to bed at once to please me  you are
quite feverish. Have you been talking ?'

Lady Eleanor was always a good deal
perplexed in cases of illness ; she did not
know what to do, and felt aggrieved, as
though the patient had done it on purpose
to annoy her. But her mind was at present
full of medical ideas, as she had just come

from a discussion upon Mr. Macdonald's
death, which, she assured her husband, was
entirely brought about by his own carelessness.
Had he only used common prudence
there was nothing to prevent him living until
David came home from India, which would
have been so much more convenient for
every one.

Lionel declared he had scarcely uttered a
word. ' Elsie has been telling me stories,'
he said. ' She has had nightmare from eating
too many mince-pies.'

Dear me, Elsie, I wish you would not,'
said Lady Eleanor, turning to her reproachfully.
' I really can not have another person
ill in the house. Mince-pies! how dreadfully
unwholesome ! How many did you eat,
child?'

I am quite well. Lady Eleanor,' said
Elsie, ' don't believe Lionel. And I don't
like mince-pies, though I did eat one last
night, for luck.'

I don't see much luck,' said Lady
Eleanor, ' pray don't do it again. I do

dislike vulgar superstition. Two misfortunes
have happened already, for I can't take you
girls to those dances next week ; I shall be
in mourning ; and now I have no doubt there
will be a third, they always come in threes.
I am quite prepared for it.'

The calamity which Lady Eleanor foresaw
was not long in coming. The party
went down in the afternoon of the following
day to the village school, to assist at a
Christmas tree, which was lighted up for
the benefit of the children on the estate.
The presents had been given, and Elsie was
busy distributing little bags of sweets, which
were cut down for her by Heathfield, when
she was aware of a sort of hubbub in the
room, a feeling in the air, which warned her
that something unusual had occurred. She
looked round  Rosamond had disappeared,
so had Constance, and Blanche seemed in
the act of following them.

Where is Constance gone ? ' she asked
Heathfield.

She was called out a minute or two ago,'

was the answer. ' Some one said Rosamond
wanted her.'

Let us make haste and finish,' said Elsie.
I am afraid somebody is ill.'

Perhaps faint,' suggested Heathfield. * I
hope you do not feel so. The heat of this
room must be very overpowering to a lady.'

'I am not faint,' said Elsie, 'but I am
sure something is wrong. Please be quick,
Lord Heathfield  never mind that wire.'

But Heathfield conscientiously insisted
upon stripping the tree completely, and
not defrauding a single child of the smallest
nut or raisin, before he suffered Elsie to
depart. As they approached the house,
they saw Douglas Ferrars and Mr. Fitzgerald
talking earnestly ; presently the latter
went in, and Mr. Ferrars came forward to
meet them.

Heathfield at once inquired whether anything
unusual had taken place, and Mr.
Ferrars replied in a highly indignant tone
of voice : ' Why, yes, something rather
singular, I must say. Lady Seathwaite's

VOL. II. p

husband has disappeared ; they have actually
sent a servant here to look for him.'

'What!' exclaimed Elsie.

'Yes, you are surprised,' continued Mr.
Ferrars ; 'so was I. Naturally I was surprised
; but the family ought surely to have
known of Sir Roger's state. He has escaped
from his  from whoever had the charge of
him ; nobody knows where he is ; Lady
Seathwaite is going home tomorrow morning,
and I hear she actually proposed  either
she or Lady Eleanor  that Constance should
go with her!'

Poor Rosamond, how distressing ! ' said
Heathfield. ' Constance would naturally wish
to be with her sister at such a crisis, but it is
hard upon you, Ferrars.'

The indignant Mr. Ferrars began to
launch forth into some rather uncomplimentary
remarks about Lady Seathwaite,
which Heathfield checked in his quiet way,
reminding him that Miss Ross was present,
but when he looked round Elsie had
vanished.

She hurried in as soon as she heard that
Rose was to leave Alkerton the next morning,
and went to look for her. Guided by
the sound of voices, she went into the parlour
just as Lady Eleanor was leaving it, and
Elsie heard her say as she did so, ' Well, do
as you please, Rose, but / don't think you
ought to go alone.'

Rosamond had risen, and was standing
with one foot on the fender ; Constance and
Blanche were sitting on either side of the
hearth, looking at her and at each other ina
doubtful, uncomfortable sort of way. None
of the three took any notice of Elsie, as she
drew near and regarded the little group with
troubled eyes.

Well,' said Rosamond at length, in rather
a hard little voice, ' family councils are rather
a waste of time, are not they ? I must go
and speak to Theresa.'

She put her hand lightly on Elsie's
shoulder as she passed her. ' Come and
help me to pack,' she said. 'You know I
am off tomorrow morning, don't you, Elsie ?'

I only heard it this moment,' said Elsie.
Are you going, Blanche ? or Constance ? '

I cannot go  very well,' said Constance,
but I should think Blanche might. Stay a
moment, Rose, where is your hurry about
packing ? '

'Well,' said Blanche, 'you know how
particular mamma is, and that I am a great
deal younger than you  but if you think it
would not be considered odd '

We have discussed all that before,' said
Rose. ' I can go alone perfectly well,' and
she left the room quickly. Elsie was about
to follow her, but stopped a moment to say to
Constance, ' Does Theresa not go with her ?'

'No,' replied Constance, 'she is going to
leave Mona here, with Theresa to look after
her. But I must say, Blanche, I think it is
rather selfish of you '

Selfish ! ' retorted Blanche, ' of course I
would go if there was any necessity ; but I
am not going to do your work just to please
Douglas Ferrars. What do you think,
Elsie } '

I think,' said Elsie rather timidly, ' that
if neither of you can go, perhaps I might.'

*0h!' said Constance, 'it is very kind of
you, Elsie, but you would not like it,
and '

'Yes, I would,' said Elsie. ' I should like
it very much, if Rose did not think me in
the way.'

In the way  oh no!' cried both sisters;
but you have no idea what a horrid journey
it is, and what a cold house '

I will go and see if Rose will take me,'
said Elsie eagerly, and ran upstairs.

Elsie had some little difficulty at first in
persuading Rosamond to let her go with her
to Seathwaite ; she felt somewhat shy of
making the proposal, for, much as she wished
to be of use to her friend, she was afraid of
seeming forward or officious. Rosamond
declared she needed no one, and was quite
able to take care of herself; but the moment
Elsie detected by her manner that she was
really a little hurt at her sisters' selfishness,
and that she had fully intended to take one

of them with her, she became very firm, and
declared that it was now quite settled, and
she must go and pack her clothes.

But your aunt, my child. Won't she
think me a demon ?'

I don't think so,' said Elsie. ' I don't
think Aunt Caroline's opinion need prevent
my going.'

And Aunt Eleanor ? have you asked
her leave ?'

No, but I will go and ask her now,
and I can pack whilst she makes up her
mind.'

Elsie was as good as her word, and the
making up of Lady Eleanor's mind was
indeed a work of time. She had been half
persuaded already by Constance and Blanche
that it would be an excellent thing for Elsie
to go with their sister, but, on the other
hand, she had the fear of Aunt Caroline and
also of Lionel before her eyes. Lionel's
objections to the plan were very strong and
decided, but as he was now in bed, and
only able to speak with difficulty, they

were overruled ; and as Elsie was anxious
to go and Rosamond to take her, his proposal
of detaining her by force was not
attended to.

Uncover ye his face, she said.
O changed in little space !
She said, O pale that was so red !
O God ! O God of grace !
Cover his face.'

The travellers made an early start, and by
ten o'clock were fairly on their way. There
was an inch or two of snow on the ground
when they left Alkerton ; and Elsie expected
to find deeper snow on the bleak Yorkshire
moors, of which she had read descriptions ;
but, on the contrary, as they went farther
north the weather appeared milder, only a
mournful whistling wind arose, and heavy
drops of rain mixed with sleet dashed against
the carriage windows, and shut out any view
there might have been.

Rosamond was silent and abstracted ; she

had scarcely spoken since the beginning of
the journey ; and Elsie's spirits, which had
been high when she started, fell in sympathy
with her companion's mood, until, as the
short daylight waned, she became quite
miserable, and began to torment herself withall
kinds of fears. She wished she knew
what Rosamond was thinking of; what made
her look so pale and strange ? Was she
thinking of Mona ? perhaps that was it, and
Elsie's thoughts went back to the nursery at
Alkerton. She wished she knew how Lionel
was ; perhaps he was going to be very ill ;
perhaps he would die, and she had disregarded
his last wishes by coming to Sea-thwart.
Above all, she wished she could
hear from David ; and for the first time an
alarm for David's safety possessed her. The
Corinzean coach ! the vision of Christmas
Eve flashed into her mind with a new and
terrible meaning ; Elsie turned faint and sick
at the sudden foolish panic, and instinctively
put out her hands to clutch something.
Rosamond did not notice the gesture in the

gathering dusk, and they were approaching
their journey's end.

When they reached the station at Sea-thwart,
a respectable elderly man-servant
opened the carriage door, and helped down
his mistress and her belongings in grave
silence.

'Are there any news?' she demanded of
him abruptly.

No news, my lady,' he answered, and
looked doubtfully at Elsie. He helped her
also to descend, and looked round the carriage
to see if they had left anything behind.
Finding a crumpled-up newspaper, which
Elsie had dropped, he straightened it out
and presented it to her with extreme gravity,
and, as she fancied, a look of melancholy
reproach.

The park gates were just outside the
village, and they drove up a long avenue,
winding amongst clumps of firs, to a large
gloomy-looking stone house with a pillared
portico. The body of the house was probably
about a hundred years old, but on each

side of the entrance was a huge new-built
wing, of depressing regularity of outline.
Rosamond led the way through the entrance-hall,
which was lined with stuffed birds and
beasts and huge elks' horns, through a
billiard-room and a large library to a smaller
sitting-room, where a bright fire was burning,
and tea was laid out on a low table. Here
she left Elsie, and returned to the outer
room to speak to Atkinson, the man who
had met them at the station, and who was
Sir Roger's confidential servant, and had
taken the lead in the search which had been
set on foot. She remained a considerable
time away, and in the interval Elsie looked
round her. The room she sat in was well
furnished, and Rosamond's taste showed itself
in its arrangement ; and yet to Elsie's
eye it had a somewhat dreary look, with its
high ceiling and rather gaunt walls. The
whole place looked inexpressibly dull and
melancholy. ' No wonder,' thought the girl,
that Rosamond hates it. I do not think that
any furniture, or even any people, would

A LILY AMONG THORNS

make it cheerful. Poor Rosamond ! I wish
she would come ; what can be the matter ?'

She waited some time longer, and then
Rosamond came in with a weary step, and
sat her down before the fire, apparently forgetful
of Elsie's presence. After a minute
Elsie spoke to her, asking her if she would
not take off her heavy furs, and Rosamond
answered gently, ' Yes, dear, yes,' but without
seeming to take in what was said. After a
while she rose with a sigh, and hastily taking
off her coat she flung it on a chair, and turned
to the table, saying, ' Well, I suppose we
must have some food.'

'Atkinson has nothing new to tell me,'
she said by and by. ' Everything has been
done, it seems, which can be done. They
have searched all round the place ; he has

been telling me about it ' and she shivered

slightly. ' He is going tomorrow to Linton
to make inquiries ; nothing more can be done
to-night.'

There was no need to dwell upon the subject
of Sir Roger's disappearance, and they

both tried to dismiss it and talk of other
things, but without much success, and for the
most part they kept silence. At Rosamond's
request Elsie shared her room with her at
night ; each lay quiet for fear of disturbing
the other, but neither slept much, and the
next day Rosamond confessed to feeling
tired.

But I have a great many things to see
to,' she said, 'and you, dear child, look pale.
Go out and take a walk ; the fresh air will do
you good ; and take Caesar, the big mastiff,
with you, he is as sensible as a man.'

Elsie obeyed, and fearlessly unchained the
Qfreat doe, who at once took her under his
protection, and walked by her side with a
condescending air, usurping most of the footpath,
and insisting on carrying her umbrella
in his mouth, dropping it from time to time,
but pushing her away whenever she tried topick
it up again. Having explored the garden,
Elsie instinctively took her way towards
the open fields ; she rather disliked the look
of the village, but as Caesar seemed to think

it the right place to go, she yielded to his
solicitations for the sake of peace, and walked
down the avenue in that direction. She had
nearly reached the gate when she met a
female figure in a brown ulster, carrying a
basket, at the sight of whom Caesar bristled
all over with indignation, and the woman, or
lady, for so it was, uttered an exclamation
and sprang towards her.

'The dog is quite gentle,' said Elsie,
thinking she was frightened. ' Caesar, come
here, sir !'

I beg your pardon ! ' said the stranger
volubly ; ' I thought, when I saw the dog,
that you were Lady Seathwaite. Are you
staying with her ? I have Just heard she had
returned, and was coming to see if I could be
useful, or if she would like to see Mr. Mad-don.
I am Mrs. Maddon,' she added.

Thank you very much,' said Elsie, who
had already guessed that this zealous little
woman, with her charitable-looking basket,
was the clergyman's wife. ' Lady Seathwaite
only came back last night  she is pretty well.

She is  a good deal occupied this morning ;
but I will give her your kind message

Elsie blushed as she said this, not liking
to be ungracious, but anxious at any cost to
save Rosamond from a troublesome visitor.
Mrs. Maddon did seem a little hurt.

If you think Lady Seathwaite will not
see me this morning, I had better spare myself
the walk. My time is precious ; I must
go and see a sick man. Good-hyo.  or were
you going to the village ?'

I was only taking a walk,' said Elsie ; ' we
might go to the gate together.'

'Poor Lady Seathwaite!' said Mrs. Mad-don,
as they walked on. ' I do feel for her.
Has nothing been heard of Sir Roger ?'

No,' said Elsie, ' nothing.'

'Ah!' said Mrs. Maddon, with a sympathetic
gasp. ' And  excuse me  does she
realise it ?'

Realise what ?' asked Elsie.

'That he has made away with himself,'
replied Mrs. Maddon, lowering her voice.
Ah ! I fear there cannot be a doubt about

it. Day and night I see him before me  his
lifeless body. So does Mr. Maddon ; he
anticipates the very worst'

As she spoke Mrs. Maddon cast up her
eyes apprehensively to the church steeple,
as if she expected to see the lost baronet
dangling from it. By this time they had
reached the gate, which Elsie unfastened.

*I must go back now,' she said, 'goodbye.'


And you will be sure to send for me if I
can be of the least use,' said Mrs. Maddon,
wringing her hand hard and looking into her
face with eager, earnest eyes. ' She ought
not to be alone ; if her parents do not come
to her '

They would come at once,' said Elsie, ' if
anything happened ; and she is not quite
alone, you know, while I am here.'

But Mrs. Maddon only shook her head
a lite, breathed another ' Good-hy,'' and
scudded off with her basket.

Elsie walked home thoughtfully, musing
on what Mrs. Maddon had said. It was

possible, of course, that Sir Roger had committed
suicide, indeed Elsie knew that that
was what his wife dreaded ; but to have the
doubt put into words made it seem more
real ; she was more than ever glad that she
had not admitted the visitor.

She is a maddening woman,' observed
Rosamond, when Elsie told her of her adventure.
' She is well named. You did quite
right to turn her ; not that I would have seen
her if she had come.'

She meant kindly,' said Elsie.

'Don't talk of her!' said Rosamond impatiently,
adding, after a minute, ' Elsie, I
have had a telegram whilst you were out  at
least Atkinson has. They think they have
found  traces.'

'Where?'

A porter at Bramley station declares he
has seen him  at least some one answering
to the description. Atkinson is to start by
the next train, in half an hour's time, so we
ought to hear something before night.'

All that afternoon the rain came down in

VOL. II. Q

torrents, and Rosamond, though she walked
restlessly about the room and often went to
the window, did not propose to go out. In
the evening the wind increased to a gale,
which continued all night long ; it howled and
moaned round the house, making the windows
rattle, and disturbing the sleepers in
their beds. No message came that night,
and in the morning there was merely an unsatisfactory
one from Atkinson, to say he was
doing his best to follow up the tracks which
had been found.

Rosamond looked more pale and hollow-eyed,
and Elsie began to be really anxious
about her ; she seemed so strange and restless.
She was very gentle and affectionate
to Elsie, but the girl could see that she had
a constant desire to get rid of her and wander
in the woods alone. It was one of those dark,
gray days in mid-winter, when the air feels
dead and the clouds hang low, as if too heavy
to bear their own weight. There was no
rain nor snow, only a moaning wind, the
remains of the late gale, which sounded dismally

from the fir-woods, and seemed to
Elsie's excited ears to be bringing something
with it, some new trouble  some strange
unknown terror.

She would not let Rosamond go out alone
in the afternoon, but clung to her persistently,
in spite of her friend's evident desire to wander
by herself.

'Shall we take Caesar?' said Rosamond,
as she shut the hall door.

Elsie perceived a dissuasive inflection in
her voice, and answered ' N  no, Rose, I
don't think we need ; he was out this morning.'


He gets so bored in the woods,' said
Rosamond, relieved. ' He likes best to goto
the station and see the trains come in ;
and though he is fond of me, I think he
prefers the stationmaster.'

It struck Elsie as strange that Rosamond
should be so evidently relieved at not having
to take Caesar, nor could she understand why
her friend always tried to keep a little in
front of her as she walked rapidly through

the wood, stopping sometimes to walk round
some tree, and then again hurrying forward.
By and by they came to a pool of water at
the farther edge of the wood ; a dark, black-looking
pool, with a steep bank at one side.
Here Rosamond stopped Elsie with a quick,
imperative sign. ' Stay you there,' she said ;
and mounting the bank she looked down
eagerly into the water. Elsie now saw how
she expected, yet feared, to find her husband's
body ; and a great horror and pity took possession
of her. She sprang up the bank, and
with her arm round her friend, looked down
too into the dark water ; but there was
nothing.

Come home with me, my dear, come
home,' she said. ' There is nothing here.'

Rosamond submitted in silence, and Elsie
led her home, not letting go her hand till they
reached the house. All that evening they sat
together, listening to the ceaseless moaning
of the wind, waiting and expecting  what ?
Elsie dared not think, she could only do
what seemed best at the present moment.

These days passed like years ; it seemed
almost as if it were unlikely that the sun
would ever shine again, or anything happen
to break the terrible silence. She thought of
David as of a far-off dream ; even Alkerton,
which she had left so lately, was indistinct to
her, like a place she had lived in many many
years ago, when she was young and free from
care.

That night passed like the two former,
except that they both slept more, from sheer
exhaustion. In the morning Rosamond
seemed so weary that Elsie persuaded her
to stay in bed, and brought her some breakfast
herself. After this she went downstairs and
exerted herself to write a long letter to David.
She had nearly finished when she heard a
stir, and a ring at the bell ; then the butler
came in to say that Mr. Maddon had called,
and was waiting to see Lady Seathwaite.
The man spoke in a peculiarly grave subdued
tone, and Elsie looked at him questioningly.

i\Ir. Maddon  that is the clergyman ?
Has he come  why has he come ?'

I could not say, miss,' said the man uneasily.
' Mr. Maddon is a very silent gentleman
; but he says he must see her ladyship.'

Elsie thought a minute, then went upstairs
to Rosamond, whom she found nearly
dressed.

Rosamond, Mr. Maddon has come, and
is asking for you. Shall I see him ? or would
you rather speak to him yourself?'

I expected this,' said Rosamond calmly.
'Tell them to show Mr. Maddon into the
library, Elsie ; I will see him alone.'

Sir Roger Seathwaite had been found
dead early that morning by some labourers ;
drowned in an old quarry four or five
miles from the house. The place had been
searched before, when he first disappeared ;
it was evident that he must have wandered
away and returned, and it was impossible to
say whether his death had or had not been
intentional. He appeared to have fallen over
a rock into the quarry, and might have missed
his footing in the dark ; on the other hand,
there were no marks to show that he had

fallen over the edge, and tried to save himself.
It was certain, from the evidence of
Atkinson, who returned from his unsuccessful
search soon afterwards, that for some time previous
Sir Roger had been completely insane.
The coroner's inquest, which was held later,
returned a verdict of accidental death.

Lady Seathwaite received the news of her
husband's fate with perfect composure, displaying
neither grief nor surprise. She listened
to all that Mr. M acton had to say,
and after he left she went to Elsie, and
quietly told her the particulars. When Elsie
proposed to send for her parents, she assented,
though indifferently, adding with a sort of
relief, ' This is Saturday, they cannot be here
until Monday.'

When her husband's dead body was being
brought in, and Elsie would fain have kept
the knowledge from her, she knew perfectly
what the heavy footsteps meant, and waited
calmly till they ceased. Then she left the
room, forbidding her friend to follow her,
and passing through the awe-struck group of

servants, she stood and looked at the dead
face, which was less repulsive in death than
she had often seen it in life, when it had been
swollen and purple with drink, or distorted
with passion.

It looks at least like the remains of a
man, and not like a wild beast.' So Rosamond
thought as she gazed upon it ; then
making a sign to Atkinson to cover it up,
she walked away.

Elsie met her at the door. Rosamond
was so reasonable that her friend felt she
had a right to have her wishes attended to,
but Elsie could not but feel anxious about
her ; this extreme calmness and reserve
seemed so unnatural. It did not give way
until the next day, when Mr. M acton called
again after service, and inquired if the widow
would see him.

Tell Mr. Maddon I cannot see him,' she
said peremptorily, when the message was
brought her.

Do you not think it might be better to
see him ?' asked Elsie wistfully.

I will not,' cried Rosamond with flashing
eyes. ' The man is a fool,' she went on,
breaking into angry tears. ' He told me
yesterday to take comfort  why, do you
think .' because Roger had perhaps found
mercy at the last moment, and had gone to
heaven. He gone to heaven, poor wretch !
what would he do in heaven ? he would be
miserable,' and she laughed hysterically.

Don't be shocked at me, Elsie ; God will
have mercy on my poor Roger, for I don't
think that he could help it. I don't believe
in hell  not in Mr. Maddon's kind of hell 
I don't think any one is bad enough for that ;
but poor Roger in heaven  no ! And I don't
want to be condoled with,' she went on. ' I
may be a wicked woman, Elsie, but I am nota
hypocrite. I am not sorry he is dead 
how can I be ? But oh ! I am thankful it
was not I who found him.'

Elsie cried with her for a while ; it was a
relief to her, and she was glad to see Rosamond's
tears. She thought it best to encourage
her to say what was in her mind.

'You thought you knew where he was,
then ?' she said.

I felt as if I must look for him,' replied
Rosamond. ' I did not want to find
him  I was dreadfully afraid of finding him,
but it was my duty, I suppose ; it was
what I came home for. Do you remember
advising me not to take Caesar ? well, I
was pleased at that, for I thought Caesar
would be sure to find him, and you would
have to see '  she stopped shuddering.
One did not know how  but that is
over. Child ! do not you get ill ; that is
all I ask.'

As evening came on Elsie soothed her as
best she could, and tried to prevent her getting
excited, fearing she would not sleep.
She felt the responsibility a good deal, as
Rosamond laughed at the idea of seeing the
doctor, and positively refused to have anyone
near her but Elsie ; but once Rosamond
had begun to talk, she would not be kept
quiet, and poured out to her friend the whole
sad history of her married life.

But you liked him at first ?' Elsie asked
her. ' He was not so bad at first, surely ?'

Liked him ! no, I never liked him,' said
Rosamond. 'And he was just as bad at
first, except that he was sane enough, and
did not want to kill himself or me.'

But if you did not like him, I don't
understand '

Elsie stopped.

Why I married him ? neither do I now.
But I was very young and very silly, and I
cared for somebody else  but he had never
written, and they persuaded me he wanted
to get rid of me. It was a lie of course.
But I was quite in despair and did not care
what became of me, and I married Roger
just because I was bothered into it.'

Poor Rose ! ' said Elsie. ' And was he
cruel to you ?'

Oh, he was kind in his way  sometimes,
and at other times he was quite, quite mad.'

And did he threaten your life ?'

Yes, and then he had to be shut up. I
did not mind for myself, only for Mona ; I

could generally keep him in order unless he
was very bad. But I am very, very thankful
he is dead ! '

So was Elsie, and she devoutly echoed
the thanksgiving, at the same time inwardly
hoping that Rose would not express this
sentiment in public, though from her experience
of her friend she thought it was extremely
likely that she would.

Cap. . . . Well, Wednesday is too soon,
O' Thursday let it be ;  o' Thursday, tell her
She shall be married to this noble earl : 
We'll keep no great ado :  a friend, or two : 
For hark you, Tybalt being slain so late.
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
Being our kinsman, if we revel much . . .
But what say you to Thursday?'

Elsie looked forward hopefully to the arrival
of Rosamond's parents, thinking that a
mother would of course know what to do,
and supply all her lack of experience. They
arrived on the Monday evening, and Elsie
turned away from Rosamond's first meeting
with her mother to speak to Sir Richard
Mortimer, who was a fine-looking elderly
man, with a pompous, dictatorial manner.
He was polite to Elsie, and said that his
daughter was under very great obligations

to her ; but he fretted and fumed with indignation
over the whole business, and found
fault with the way in which everything had
been managed.

Poor Lady Mary clasped her daughter in
her arms and cried, and would not leave off
until she was peremptorily ordered by her
husband to do so : she had had a long
journey, and seemed tired and upset. She
was something like Lady Eleanor in appearance,
but was much older looking ; there was
really ten years' difference in their ages, and
Lady Mary had a careworn look which made
her seem older still. She was thin, too, and
shrunken, and had had none of her sister's
stately grace of outline, and her complexion,
instead of being the rich creamy tint of Lady
Eleanor's, had become sallow and unhealthy ;
but she carried herself well, and had a certain
air of distinction.

Rosamond made an effort to bear her
mother's lamentations patiently, pitied her
fatigue, and begged Elsie to see that she
was made comfortable ; and Elsie found her

cares increased rather than lessened by the
arrival of these relatives. Lady Mary appealed
to her in everything, and was utterly
helpless with Rosamond. The only good
she did was to arrange about her daughter's
mourning, and that of the household ; and
this was not accomplished without a great
deal of unnecessary bustle, Rosamond being
dragged into every consultation, and even
called upon to settle what material should be
used for the maids' caps.

The subject which next came uppermost
in Lady Mary's mind was whether her
daughter Constance's marriage should be
put off, and for how long.

Sir Richard does not see why it should
be put off,' she said to Elsie, 'and Constance
will not say one thing or another. It was
fixed for the 20th, and I think a quiet
wedding then  but Blanche says it would
be disgraceful to have it before June. I
do think Easter would be quite long enough
for them to wait, but if Rose has any feeling
do you think she has, Miss Ross ?'

*I don't think so, Lady Mary,' said
Elsie. ' Indeed, I am sure she has not.'

'You see, it is most inconvenient,' said
Lady Mary. * Everything fixed and settled.
The cake is ordered  that will keep, of
course. And the flowers were ordered 
bouquets of forced lily of the valley,  a
charming idea, was it not ? and really at
Easter one does not know what flowers
they could have.'

Elsie tried to think, but in vain.

I can think of nothing but arum lilies,'
said Lady Mary despairingly, ' and they
could not carry them in their hands. They
would be pretty to decorate the church
though,' she added, struck with a bright
thought, * very pretty and appropriate.
Azaleas ? not very pretty. Mareschal Noel
roses ? she had set her heart upon white.'

Narcissus ? ' suggested Elsie. ' Pheasant's
eye ?'

They have a dreadfully strong smell
said Lady Mary despondingly, ' but a good
idea; thank you. Miss Ross. I really do

not know that one could have it before
Easter.'

Rosamond entered as the last words were
said.

Have what, mamma V she asked languidly.
' Oh, Constance's marriage, I suppose.
When was it to be ?'

Oh, Rose, my dear, no one would ever
dream of it if you have the least feeling
about it ; indeed I think it must be put off.
The 20th would never do  I really do not
know when to have it.'

Rosamond walked to the window, lifted
up a corner of the blind and looked out ;
then she came back to her mother.

Well, mamma, if you ask my advice, 1
should say put it off until Easter, for
decency's sake ; after that, have it by all
means ; I have no feelings in the matter.
I merely say this because you are fond of
doing the correct thing  as far as I am
concerned you might have it tomorrow.'

Well, well, my dear,' said Lady Mary
fretfully, ' I only want to spare you as much
VOL. 11. R

as possible. I hope you have been lying
down. Miss Ross, pray persuade her to lie
down  she will need all her strength for tomorrow.'


Several of the relations came that evening
to attend the funeral on the morrow ; among
whom was the new baronet, Sir George
Seathwaite, Roger's cousin. Mr. Fitzgerald
was another of the guests ; and the sight of
him brought Elsie back to everyday life
more than anything which had happened
since she came to Seathwaite. He said
that Lionel was better and able to leave
his room, which Elsie was very glad to
hear.

The funeral was over at last, and the
legal proceedings satisfactorily concluded.
The lawyer believed Sir Roger Seathwaite
to have left no will ; but by the marriage
settlements the widow was amply provided
for, and Mona inherited a considerable fortune,
though the title and estates passed to
a cousin. The reading of the documents
was soon over, and the guests were about

to disperse. Elsie heard Sir Richard bidding
them good-bye in a loud cheerful tone,
and presently they came in to make their
adieux to Lady Mary. Elsie could not help
smiling at the expression of Sir George's
face ; he was a merry little man with a
natural tendency to whistle and hum tunes
from sheer exuberance of spirits, and had
with difficulty composed himself to a decent
solemnity during the late melancholy ceremony.
Now he was like a boy just let
loose from school, and Elsie looked at him,
half expecting to see him turn a somersault
out at the door, when the lawyer entered
hastily, saying, ' Gentlemen, I must beg
your attention for a few moments longer.
A will has been found.'

Sir George's face lengthened considerably,
and they all returned in a saddened manner
to the library, where a very long discussion
was held, after which most of the guests took
their departure ; but Sir George and the
lawyer, having missed their train, were obliged
to remain at Seathwaite till the next day.

By and by Sir Richard was heard storming
and stamping about the house. ' Rosamond !
where is Rosamond ?' cried he, entering the
room where the ladies were sitting.

Dear Richard, she has only just gone to
rest,' said Lady Mary. ' Pray do not disturb
the poor child.'

Rest ! what the devil  ? is she ill then ?'
cried Sir Richard. ' Tell her I must see herat
once. She can prove it's all nonsense.
The man was mad  as mad as a March
hare.'

Elsie went to fetch Rosamond, whose
quick ears had already heard her name called
many times, but who was determined not to
stir till she was sent for.

Some new calamity, I suppose,' she
said, when Elsie had repeated Sir Richard's
message. ' Well, Elsie, you must leave me
to fight it out, you can't help me, dear. Go
out and take a walk ; that will do you more
good than anything.'

Elsie went reluctantly, but she knew she
was best out of the way, and she compelled

herself to walk twice to the park gate and
back again, which would occupy a whole
hour ; yet when she came in the sound of
voices told her that the discussion, whatever
it was, was still going on. She feared
Rosamond would be quite worn out, but
that evening her friend insisted on telling
her the whole story.

My dear,' she said, ' you may be glad I
sent you out. No sooner were you gone
than papa came storming and raging, and
saying I must prove this, that, and the
other. I had to go to the library with him
and George and Mr. Hunter, who had found
the will stuck behind a drawer which had
been searched before, and they read it to me.
He threatened me once that he would make
a will like that, but I did not believe that he
really would or could, and I defied him todo
it ; but it seems to be all correct and
formal.'

And what was it ? ' asked Elsie anxiously.
I thought it was not in his power to do you
any real harm.'

Well, no, but he did his best. He hated
his cousin George too, but he could not
prevent his getting the title or the lands ;
however, he has burdened the estate with
ever so many useless legacies ; one, amongst
others, to build public - houses in all the
neighbouring parishes. This is to annoy
George, because he is a great temperance
man.'

'And is that all ?' asked Elsie.

Oh, there is a provision that I  if I
marry again before Mona is of age  I am
not to see her or have any intercourse with
her. If she lives with me, she forfeits her
fortune.'

No wonder Sir Richard was angry,' said
Elsie indignantly.

Yes, he was in a fearful frame of mind
about it. Poor George tried to keep him
quiet, he thought I would be hurt ; though
the public-houses must have come rather
hard upon him.'

But they are going to dispute it, are they
not ? it will not stand ?'

No, I think they will be able to dispose
of it on the ground of insanity ; though 
mind you  I don't think Roger was mad
at the moment he made it  it was so like
him. Papa cannot stand my saying that
before those other two ; that made him very
angry. I knew it would.'

Elsie could not help sharing Sir Richard's
opinion that it would have been better left
unsaid ; there was a vindictiveness in Rosamond's
disposition which she was unable to
enter into. She looked very grave and
troubled over the affair of the will, and
took an opportunity of asking Lady Mary
whether she thought it could possibly hold
good. The latter answered that the three
gentlemen were unanimous in thinking that
it could be proved invalid, but that this
might involve some tedious law business,
especially as one of the trustees seemed
disposed to be troublesome.

When a few more days had passed the
Mortimerss returned to Wynchcombe, taking
Rosamond with them. All joined in cordially

inviting Elsie to accompany them ; and she
was much tempted to do so, as she had
grown to cong greatly to Rose, and dreaded
the idea of parting with her. It was hard
to resist her friends' entreaties, but Elsie
considered that Rosamond had no real need
of her now, as she was going back to her
sisters and to Mona ; and she thought it
was high time to return to Aunt Caroline,
whose letters showed that she was very
much hurt and offended with her niece forgoing
to Seathwaite at all. Elsie therefore
parted from her friends at Paddington
Station, for they all went up to London
together; and about the middle of January
found herself once more at Chippingham.

We looked for peace, but no good came ; and for a time of
health, and behold trouble !'

Mrs. Lindsay found it difficult to forgive
the offence of which her niece had been
guilty by her bold and independent conduct.
Such a spirit she considered extremely unbecoming
in a young female ; and when
Elsie returned to her pale and languid, worn
out in mind and body by all that she had
gone through, Mrs. Lindsay lost no opportunity
of impressing upon her that such were
the invariable but bitter fruits of disobedience.
She would hear nothing of Rosamond and
her trials, with the recital of which Elsie
tried to soften her ; Lady Seathwaite was
one of those whose existence she utterly
and entirely disapproved of. As to the late

baronet, she considered it highly improper
that a young unmarried woman should even
be aware that such a person had ever existed ;
therefore lectures and exhortations were now
the order of the day.

As Elsie drooped, however, from day today,
cried when her aunt scolded her, and
had no appetite, Mrs. Lindsay began to see
that her niece was far from well. The doctor
and Parkins were called in to prescribe ;
tonics and kind treatment were next administered
; and as the spring flowers came out
and the days grew longer, the girl began to
revive a little.

David's letters could not but cheer her,
they were so full of joyful expectation. He
reminded her that the two years' probation
was drawing to a close ; he had no doubt
of being able to come home in autumn on
special leave ; and, lest Elsie should interpose
any delays, he took the precaution of
writing to Aunt Caroline, urging her to make
preparations for the marriage, which was to
take place in October. Mrs. Lindsay undertook

this task with the greatest zeal, and
Elsie's wishes in the matter were entirely
overruled. The Laird seemed to take it asa
matter of course that his daughter's marriage
should take place at Rossiee, and Elsie herself
had no other thought; but Mrs. Lindsay
eagerly pointed out to her how impossible
this was. The General, who was now very
feeble in health, would be quite unequal to
the long journey ; she herself would be
greatly tried by it ; so would Miss Maynard ;
while it was evident that the wild and inhospitable
region in which Rossiee was situated
would afford no suitable accommodation
for David's parents. Elsie's wishes should be
consulted in all reasonable matters ; her father
must of course be present to give her away,
and Mrs. Ross should be invited to accompany
him. Elsie acquiesced passively, and
left the management of everything in her
aunt's hands, only expressing a strong wish
to go home that summer to see her father,
since she might not be married from Rossiee.
But this request Aunt Caroline did not see

fit to grant. The Laird at length, overwhelmed
by the epistolary eloquence of
Mrs. Lindsay, had consented to come to
Chippingham with Euphemia, and grace his
daughter's nuptials ; Elsie would therefore,
Aunt Caroline argued, see quite enough of
him then ; it was highly undesirable that she
should be absent at a time when she was a
source of so much pleasure and interest to
others, and when her dresses might at any
moment require to be fitted on.

Once more Elsie dully submitted, and,
amidst all the bustle which Aunt Caroline
raised, she moved about like one in a dream.
A strange feeling of unreality possessed her,
and it was not until she heard that David
was actually on his way home, that she could
bring herself to believe she was so soon to
see him again. It was scarcely a shock to
her at the time, when the startling news came,
that David had only reached Suez to be recalled
 that, the Chamberlain mission having
failed, war with There Ali had been declared,
and no soldier could be spared from his post.

Mrs. Lindsay was naturally both disappointed
and apprehensive for her nephew's
safety, but, her first agitation over, she bore
up bravely on Elsie's account, and was also
disposed to take her husband's view of the
matter, for the General was cheerful and even
exultant.

This is a grand chance for Davie,' he
would say, ' a fine opportunity of getting on.
Shouldn't wonder if he saw some very pretty
fighting. I remember when I was out therein

'41 ' and the General launched forth

gleefully into reminiscences of his old campaigns.
If Mrs. Lindsay sighed a little over
the dangers of war, he scouted the idea of
anything happening to his nephew. ' No
fear of Davie not casting up  he always falls
on his feet.'

But all these assurances failed to inspire
Elsie with courage; she trembled whenever
the post came in, and could not conceal her
agitation at the least mention of fighting.
Mrs. Lindsay first reasoned with her gently,
and then took her to task seriously for want

of faith, but Elsie said she could not help it.
Perhaps the scenes she had passed through
at Seathwaite had tried her nerves too much ;
perhaps the shadow of her coming grief was
already over her. For Elsie's fears were but
too well founded, she never saw her lover
again.

The winter passed slowly away, and
anxiety gave way to thankfulness as news
came from time to time of the success and
gallantry of the British troops in making
their way up the Afghan passes. Every one
said the campaign would soon be at an end,
and David was still safe. It was not till
spring that the stroke, which Elsie had felt
hanging over her for so long, came at last in
its full force. David was killed in an action on
the Cabal river, the report said that Lieutenant
Lindsay was cut down while heading
a charge into a dense mass of the enemy
clustered round a standard, which he had
succeeded in taking when he fell. He was
dead when his comrades lifted him up, and
no soothing message was conveyed to his

friends to tell them that he remembered them
in his last moments. Death had probably
been instantaneous ; that was all the comfort
they received, except the knowledge that his
name was spoken of with honour, and that his
brother officers sincerely mourned his loss.

This calamity fell like a thunderbolt upon
the quiet household at the Elms, and Elsie
was the only one who bore the news at first
with outward calmness. She did not speak
a word or shed a tear when the news was
told her ; but as days went on, and Mrs.
Lindsay first, and then the General, began to
recover a little from the first shock of their
grief, Elsie's face remained still and hopeless,
and she seemed to have no thought or care
for anything in this world. When they
spoke to her of resignation and submission
to the Divine will, she assented, saying
gently that she had no cause to complain ;
that she was no worse off than many others,
and that she had been very happy ; and then
she would entreat them with tears to leave
her alone, and to have patience with her.

She sat by herself as much as possible,
shrinking from sight with the instinct of
some wounded wild creature, which tries to
creep into a hole to die. But Elsie did not
die, although at first she hoped and prayed todo
so ; by little and little she struggled back
to life. There is no need to dwell on the
sufferings of this poor heart ; indeed, few are
so happy as to be unable to comprehend them
in some measure.

The news of David's death came in April,
and by the end of May Mrs. Lindsay, dismayed
at her niece's low state of health and
spirits, was willing to give up her most
cherished prejudices for the sake of doing
her good. During those first sad weeks
nothing could have been more tender and
considerate than her treatment of the girl.
She behaved throughout with the greatest
tact and forbearance, and did not let Miss
Maynard tease her by well - meant condolences
and caresses.

Mrs. Lindsay now offered to send Elsie
home to Rossiee for a change, or even to take

her herself if necessary, which was really a
most self-sacrificing proposal ; but Elsie, to
her surprise, refused to go. ' You are very
good, Aunt Caroline,' she said, 'but not yet 
I do not think I could. Let me stay with you.'

Rosamond had written, first to Elsie, and
then to Mrs. Lindsay, inquiring very anxiously
for her friend, and asking if she might come
to her, but this also Elsie declined. ' I cannot
speak about it,' she said. 'Give me
time, Aunt Caroline  just a little time. I
will do better by and by.'

By degrees, as the summer went on, she
attained calmness ; then a faint cheerfulness
and interest in everyday things, which was at
first assumed, then real ; but she showed no
wish to vary her life by any change, and she
kept her thoughts and feelings to herself.
Mrs. Lindsay was not satisfied, and she and
Miss Maynard now began to consult together,
and to shake their heads over her.

There is a reserve,' Mrs. Lindsay would
say, ' a shutting up of the heart against sympathy,
which I feel to be really wrong ; and

VOL. IT. s

yet. she is perfectly tranquil now, and much
stronger in health. If we suffer this impenetrability
to grow upon her, hers will
become a self-absorbed, a self-centred, and an
unsympathising character ! ' and she looked
fiercely at Miss Maynard, as if she dared her
to contradict her.

She does not care to speak about dear
Ernest's sad loss,' observed Miss Maynard
mournfully, ' but perhaps it recalls her own
sorrow too vividly.'

Nothing of the kind, Cecilia ! I saw her
amusing herself with the dogs not an hour
after we heard the announcement.'

Mr. Maynard's young wife had lately died,
in giving birth to a daughter, and this sad
and startling event had once more called out
all Mrs. Lindsay's sympathy and goodwill
towards Ernest. She had forgiven the
marriage in a formal sort of way, but could
not make a friend of Mrs. Maynard, who
was a foolish flighty young creature ; still, as
the widower seemed overcome with grief at
his loss, she was unremitting her attentions

and kind messages ; and the dead wife acquired
a sort of sanctity in her eyes. She
would have adopted the baby, had it not
been instantly claimed by its mother's relations
; and she was quite annoyed with Elsie
for not shedding tears over it, and pressing
it to her heart, as Miss Maynard had done,
when she was first introduced to it. There
seemed no use in expecting her niece and
Mr. Maynard to console each other, neither
showed the least wish to do so, and Mrs.
Lindsay was quite at a loss for mental
occupation, until, about the beginning of
October, she received news from Alkerton.

Up to this time they had not heard a word
about Lady Eleanor, directly or indirectly ;
Mrs. Lindsay had not given her much
thought, and Elsie had not spoken on the
subject. But now a letter came from Mr.
Fitzgerald, asking leave to carry off Miss
Ross for a visit to his wife, who had expressed
a great wish to see her, and intimating
that he might be expected at the Elms
the following day.

When Mr. Fitzgerald came, he received a
chastened welcome from Mrs. Lindsay, the
black ribbons on whose cap trembled with
emotion as she conducted him to her boudoir
for a confidential interview. The behaviour
of the visitor was no less appropriate ; he
expressed himself in long well-chosen words,
and now that he had exerted himself to pay
this visit, which nothing but his wife's express
command could have led him to undertake,
he behaved heroically, and won golden
opinions from his hostess.

That is a man I respect,' she said emphatically
to Miss Maynard in the evening.
He has feeling, and he has principle. How
thankful I feel that poor dear Eleanor has
been vouchsafed such a helpmeet. What
support must he not yield  what guidance ! '

Miss Maynard turned up her eyes, and
uttered an ecstatic gasp.

He tells me,' pursued Mrs. Lindsay,
that his wife's state of mind causes him
very grave anxiety. Uncontrolled as poor
dear Eleanor's feelings always were, she has

given way to them, it appears, to a painful,
to a culpable extent, and has reduced herself
to a state of  in fact,' said Mrs. Lindsay,
waving her hand, ' Mr. Fitzgerald had to
call in the doctor.'

'And his opinion?' inquired Miss Maynard
mildly.

He prescribed change of air and scene.
Mr. Fitzgerald would have taken her to
Brighton, to the Continent, anywhere 
Eleanor would not move. Then as she was
not to be crossed or thwarted  that doctor
must have been most injudicious as well as
weak  she of course continued without any
improvement, until the other day she took a
fancy that she would like to see dear Elsie.
Her husband, always on the alert to anticipate
her wishes, came  flew '  and Mrs.
Lindsay spread out her arms, to illustrate
the manner in which one might suppose Mr.
Fitzgerald to have been wafted to the Elms
' flew hither on the wings of love, and tomorrow
returns, bearing our darling with
him.'

'To-morrow!' exclaimed Miss Maynard
aghast. ' Then you have consented to dear
Elsie's '

Undoubtedly,' said Mrs. Lindsay, folding
her arms with majesty. 'Where there
is a work of mercy to be done, I never
hesitate.'

The wish which Lady Eleanor had expressed
touched and pleased Elsie exceedingly,
and she felt an eagerness to go, which she restrained
for fear of hurting her aunt, but the
latter was so occupied with Mr. Fitzgerald
and his principles, that she never even
thought of consulting Elsie's feelings in the
matter.

If Mr. Fitzgerald had flown to Chipping-ham
on the wings of love, he certainly
did not fly back on them, for Elsie had
never before met with such a troublesome
travelling companion. He fidgeted and
complained incessantly ; quarrelled with all
the porters ; threatened to bring an action
against the railway company whenever he
did not see his luggage ; and gave his

companion no peace till they arrived at
Alkerton.

When they entered the house Elsie caught
sight of Lady Eleanor's tall figure coming
out to meet them, and stayed a little behind,
while Mr. Fitzgerald hastened to tell his
wife how ill he was, and how much the
journey had upset him, but Lady Eleanor
took no notice of him at all except to put
him aside with one hand ; she went straight
up to Elsie, put her arms round the girl and
kissed her, then led her to her room without
a word. ' I knew you would come,' she said,
when they were alone together.

Elsie noticed how her face had grown
thinner, and her voice had lost its ring.
You have been ill. Lady Eleanor,' she said
softly.

Oh yes, and they have been tormenting
me with doctors,' she answered, still in the
same spiritless voice. ' Did your aunt make
a fuss about your coming '. how did you get
on with Frederick ? '

Aunt Caroline liked me to come '

began Elsie, and stopped, for Lady Eleanor
did not seem to desire an answer. She
sighed, looked vacantly round, and then left
the room, saying she supposed she must
attend to Frederick.

END OF VOL. II.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

ill

Jibe gears of an SEneSjentful Itt

BY

JOANNA HARRISON

VOL. III.

ILonliDn

MACMILLAN AND CO.

1886 .

[Ah rights reserved.]

CHAPTER VIII.

I have built
Two chantries, where the sad and solemn priests
Sing still for Richard's soul. More will I do ;
Though all that I can do is nothing worth,
Since that my penitence comes after call,
Imploring pardon.'

Elsie remained at Alkerton for many weeks;
her presence became almost a necessity to
Lady Eleanor, who talked to her as she did
to no one else, and regarded her with a
great deal more affection, probably, than if
Elsie had really been her daughter-in-law.
The companionship was good for both, and
gave Elsie in particular an interest in life.
Hers was a nature which required some one
to cherish and take care of, and she became
passionately attached to David's mother, who
confided in her, and leant upon her ; speaking
when they were alone as unreservedly as if

VOL. III. B

Elsie had been a woman of her own age.
She traced the whole course of David's
childhood and youth from the day of his
birth, dwelling more particularly on the
time when he first began to walk, 'when
every one who came to the house admired
him,' and she showed Elsie a collection of
little soft curls of hair, cut from her children's
heads at various stages of their life. Then
David's schoolboy letters were brought out,
and dwelt upon one by one ; most of those
he had written latterly she had not kept,
which she regretted now with tears. Sometimes,
but rarely, she had fits of remorse,
when she said she had been unjust to David,
and which it required all Elsie's skill to
soothe ; but it made her almost happy again
to hear how her boy had loved and admired
her, and how often he had spoken to Elsie
of his mother.

'Oh, Elsie! it is so hard that he should
have been the one to be taken from me.
I never dreamt of it, never. We always
said David was so lucky ; I never was

anxious about him because of that. He never
gave me a moment's anxiety since he was
born. But I was so proud of him, and I
used to hope and plan things for him'  she
stopped to wipe away the tears which were
running down her face  ' I was so sure he
would distinguish himself. But oh, if I had
known there would be fighting, I would never
never have let him go into the army.'

Dear Lady Eleanor, we should not
grudge him,' said Elsie earnestly, laying her
hand upon her friend's knee. ' I do not.
He was a soldier, you know, and he  he did
his duty. What would become of the country
if everybody kept back their sons ?'

I don't see how his being killed does the
country the least good,' said Lady Eleanor
disconsolately, ' and what is the use of people
distinguishing themselves, and having medals
and things if they are dead ? I would not let
Lionel enter one of those dangerous professions
for anything in the world. Though
Lionel is not David '  she ended with a
heavy sigh  ' /le never got into scrapes.'

Is Lionel not  not doing well at Oxford,

then?'

'Ah well, I have had a great deal of
trouble with him altogether. He has left
Oxford now  you did not know that, by the
bye and his bills keep coming in, and that
annoys Frederick so. He can't bear paying
bills  though Lionel's debts are not very bad
ones, poor boy. I wish sometimes he would
come back.'

'Where is he, then?' asked Elsie, 'since
he has left Oxford ?'

He is still wandering about abroad,' said
Lady Eleanor. 'He is at Vienna now, and
talks of Paris as his next address  that looks
as if he were on his way home, doesn't it ?'

Yes, certainly, I should say. Then he
has been making a tour abroad ? '

It was Frederick's doing,' said Lady
Eleanor wearily ; ' he said he would not have
him idling at home. You see Lionel was
plucked  and then his debts  and he certainly
spoke very improperly to Frederick.
But I wish he was at home again.'

'Is he working at anything?' asked
Elsie.

Oh yes, music. He has a passion for
music, you know. He goes to all the operas
he can  he says he wants to form his taste,
and would take lessons if he could find anyone
fit to teach him. I wonder he can have
the heart to play on the piano.'

It was curious how Elsie could put aside
her own grief to comfort David's mother, and
behaved as if the loss had not fallen so
heavily upon herself. She now began to
question her more particularly concerning
Lionel, partly in order to divert her mind
from her worst trouble, partly because she
herself was anxious to have news of her former
friend and playfellow. Lady Eleanor
was always ready to talk of Lionel, and the
loss of her younger son would really have
been a far more crushing grief to her than
that of David. Lionel had been idle and
extravagant ; no more serious faults could be
imputed to him. He had a refined nature
and tastes, which led him to avoid low

associates, and to detest the grosser forms of
dissipation. But he had given quite sufficient
annoyance to his parents by his incorrigible
idleness, although in some respects they misunderstood
him. He had been excessively
shocked and grieved at his brother's death,
and had honestly set himself to work in order
to make up to his mother in some measure
for what she had lost. But he had let too
much time slip away before, and though he
worked his hardest for the few weeks he had
left before his next examination, he was
plucked, to his own disappointment, and the
Indignation of his parents, who now reproached
him with being heartless and unfeeling
as well as idle. This was too much
for Lionel's temper to stand, and high words
passed between him and his stepfather ; the
upshot of which was, that Lionel left home,
rather under a cloud, to pursue his so-called
musical studies abroad. There, having no
particular inducement to work, and thinking
himself rather hardly used by both parents, he
relapsed somewhat Into his former idle ways.

although his character had gained in manliness
and gravity since David's death.

Lady Eleanor did not see or know all this,
but Elsie partly divined it from the story she
told, and felt sorry for Lionel, whom she
always judged leniently. She tried to impress
his mother with her view of the case,
and Lady Eleanor was very ready to listen
to her, and would bring up the subject over
and over again for the sake of having it repeated
; until they both persuaded themselves
that Lionel was an injured martyr, deserving
of the tenderest and most respectful treatment.
It was well for Lady Eleanor's happiness
that she had taken up this idea ; for
she had greatly added to her burden of sorrow
by trying, however unsuccessfully, to
harden her heart against her remaining son.
She now wrote affectionately, urging him to
come home ; and Mr. Fitzgerald, to please his
wife, consented to overlook all hasty expressions
on Lionel's part, on condition that the
latter ceased to expect him to keep hunters
for him, or to pay any more of his debts.

Lionel accordingly returned to Alkerton a
little before Christmas. His coming cheered
up the household, though at first he was unlike
the Lionel of old times, grave and sometimes
low-spirited. He treated Elsie with a sort
of tender reverence, and was exceedingly
thoughtful for her comfort ; at first indeed he
hardly dared to speak to her, but watched her
from afar with wistful admiring eyes. By
degrees he became more familiar ; and when
Elsie talked to him and tried to draw him out,
he gave her his confidence very fully. He
knew he was an idle dog, he would say, and
good for nothing, he had got into the habit
of it. He would go out to Australia, that
was the only thing he was fit for. This was
in his most desponding moods, which gradually
became rarer, as his walks and talks with
Elsie were more frequent. He had another
scheme for his more cheerful hours. He
would go to Ardvoira and live there, when
the present tenant's lease had expired ; build
cottages, and improve the condition of his
tenantry ; and keep a steam-yacht. Neither

would he listen to any nonsense from his
tenants (mind you) ; but they, under his
judicious and paternal rule, would become so
intelligent that they would in time refrain from
making any idiotic suggestions about reductions
of rent or undue burnings of heather.

To all this Elsie listened and smiled ; she
favoured the Ardvoira scheme more than
the Australian one, but she knew that his
mother really did not know what to do with
the boy, and that she and Mr. Fitzgerald
had some new plan for him every day. Lady
Eleanor was now fairly cheerful again, and
seldom spoke of David, unless it were to
allude to his untimely death as a reason for
keeping Lionel out of any possible danger.
Mr. Fitzgerald proposed that his stepson
should travel for a year or two, and this
Elsie too thought rather a sensible suggestion,
but Lady Eleanor would not hear of it.
She watched Lionel's evident devotion to
Elsie with favour, and contrived to take
credit to herself for thinking that she would
not throw obstacles in the way of her child's

happiness, and that if he chose to fall in love
with Elsie, she would not oppose it, or seek
out a more worldly match for him. To be
sure Elsie evidently looked upon him as a
mere boy, but that, Lady Eleanor argued
with herself, was very ridiculous, and she
would soon find out her mistake, for Lionel
was, in reality, some months older, and
where would she see a handsomer or more
charming young man ?

'No,' she said to Elsie, who was advocating
the advantages of foreign travel, ' I will
not let him go so far away, I know something
would happen to him, and it would
be most foolish and wrong of me to do it ;
for I believe'  she lowered her voice  'weare
an unfortunate family. Last spring,' she
went on after a pause, ' I wanted Frederick
to sell Alkerton and go back to Devonshire,
but, would you believe it ? he would not doit
; he is very obstinate sometimes. He said
he could only do so at a dead loss, and he
could not afford that. But I made him do
up the church.'

But why ?' said Elsie ; ' I saw the church
was restored. Did Mr. Fitzgerald do all
that at his own expense ?'

'Yes,' said Lady Eleanor, 'he did, for I
made him. Frederick did not want to do it,
and really I can't blame him : most expensive
it was. But I am perfectly convinced that
it is not safe to live on Church lands the
way we have been doing, and to give nothing
back. You see what has happened already ;
and after such a terrible warning, it is surely
my duty to be a little extra careful of Lionel.
Look what happened to the Pophams, who
lived here before us : I heard the whole
story the first time I went over to Bulcote.
I forget exactly what it was, but I know
they broke their necks or something, and it
was the eldest son it happened to.'

Lady Eleanor was apt to be a little incoherent
in her vehemence, and Elsie looked
at her rather puzzled.

And did the Freemans warn you then ?'
she asked. * Did they advise you to restore
the church ?'

'No, it was my own idea answered Lady
Eleanor with a lite pride. * Frederick says
it is nonsense and waste of money, but we
shall see. When a thing is right, what does
a little expense signify?'

It seemed almost as if Alkerton were to
become Elsie's permanent home, for Lady
Eleanor declared herself quite unable to live
without her young companion ; but an urgent
letter from Mrs. Lindsay recalled her to
Chippingham the following spring to see her
uncle, the General, who was alarmingly ill.
The poor old gentleman had felt his nephew's
death acutely, and it had told upon him a
good deal. All that autumn he had been
visibly feebler, though he made no complaint;
and the cold winter, followed by a colder
spring, had weakened him still further. He
was now seized with an attack of bronchitis,
and for some days his life was in danger ;
though when Elsie came home he was
beginning to mend, and his recovery was
steady though slow. During Elsie's absence
Mrs. Lindsay had been chiefly occupied

with Ernest Maynard ; but when he had
ceased talking about his wife and infant
daughter, and the novelty of his bereavement
had worn off, she began to feel dull, and
longed for her niece to come home. Now
the General's health engrossed Mrs. Lindsay's
thoughts entirely.

Elsie did not like to go away again, asher
presence pleased her uncle in his still
weak state ; but as the spring wore on she
began to turn her thoughts to Rossiee, and
her father wrote expressing a wish to see
her in the summer. No sooner, however,
had the General recovered from his bronchitis
than he began to take his old attacks again ;
with this difference, that he made sure each
time that he was going to die, and insisted
upon sending for any of his relations who
might be within reach to witness his last
moments. This had happened twice, and
Elsie, thinking there was nothing really to
be alarmed about, prepared to start for
Scotland in June ; the General appearing
to resign himself to the plan. Two days

before her proposed journey, however, he
suddenly seemed to take in that she was
really going to leave him, and inquired how
long she would be away. Elsie said about
a month or six weeks. The General fidgeted,
and said by and by, ' Can ye get a telegraph
at Rossiee ?'

There is a telegraph office at Drum-sleigh,
Uncle Henry,' replied Elsie rather
reluctantly.

Drumsheugh ! That's ten miles off. I
don't think,' he said looking at his wife,
'she'll get back in time to see me die.'

Mrs. Lindsay gesticulated imperatively
from her corner unseen by her husband,
and Elsie said in a cheerful tone : ' Are you
not feeling so well, Uncle Henry ? I will
put off going for a little till you are stronger.'

'Yes, yes, my dear, put off for a little,'
said the old man fretfully. ' I'll not trouble
you long.'

Elsie wrote home accordingly to put off
her visit, upon which the General rallied
immediately, and became more like his old

self than he had been for a year ; but as he
showed symptoms of a relapse whenever his
niece's departure was hinted at, she at length
gave up hopes of going to Scotland that
summer. She might have gone in autumn
as far as the General's health was concerned ;
but when she proposed to do so, her father
wrote to the effect that, as she had let all
the good weather go by, she might just
wait for another year. He did not wish
her to come and catch her death of cold,
especially as he understood from Mrs. Lindsay
that she had a cough.

Elsie was really not feeling strong ; and
when, that same autumn, her friend Rosamond
Seathwaite wrote to say that she was
going to take Mona to the south of France
for the winter, and was most anxious that
Elsie should accompany them, even Mrs.
Lindsay urged her niece to accept the
invitation. Whether from weakness of body
or sadness of mind, Elsie felt indifferent, and
disinclined to move from where she was
unless it was her positive duty to do so;

but she could not resist her friend's loving
entreaties, and went ; and once in the sunny-river
much of her old vigour came back
to her. Rosamond's companionship, too, was
a great delight, and did her much good ; and
Mona, now grown a very sweet, though quiet
little maiden, became especially devoted to
Hans, whom Elsie could not find It In her
heart to leave behind her. Poor little gentle
Hans, whose eyes had become so pathetic
now that his mistress fancied that her long
and frequent absences were making him old
before his time, and bringing premature white
hairs round his little brown nose.

Er list persist, kommt aus Paris und Rheims
Und bring sein tree altenglisch Hers zurich.'

The little party of friends having spent the
winter very pleasantly at San Nemo, were
on their way back to England In May, and
only stopped to spend a week or ten days In
Paris.

Rosamond was, upon the whole, well In
health, and had long since recovered from
the shock to her nerves, but her spirits were
still variable, which a little disappointed
Elsie. She was very much as she had been
at Alkerton before her husband's death,
except that, alone with Elsie and Mona,
there was nothing to provoke and irritate her,
and her temper was consequently sweeter.
The troublesome law business, consequent

VOL. III. c

on Sir Rogers eccentric will, was ended,
and the will set aside on the ground of
insanity.

Elsie, knowing Rosamond's former history,
longed to speak to her about Ponsonby,
and was often on the point of doing so, but
there was a reserve about her friend which
kept her back, and she did not dare even to
mention his name in a casual way, as she
knew that Rose was quite sharp enough to
perceive that she had done it with a purpose,
and might, indeed probably would, be displeased.


Whilst Elsie was at Alkerton the winter
before, she had received a letter from ,
who, it appeared, had gone to Chip-gingham
in hopes of seeing her, and was
disappointed at not finding her there. He
had gone to the Elms, he said, in order to
make his adieux to her and to Mrs. Lindsay,
before undertaking a voyage round the world,
as he would probably be absent for a few
years. Elsie was grieved and perplexed by
this letter : she thought if she had seen

Ponsonby she might have understood something
of his motives and purposes. She
could not help speaking of it to Lady
Eleanor, and expressing her regret, to which
the latter replied in her off-hand way that
she supposed the poor man thought he had
no chance with Rose, as there was a report
that she was going to marry Sir George
Seathwaite ; although. Lady Eleanor added,
she did not for her part think such an event
likely to happen, as probably Rose had had
more than enough of the family. Elsie's
intercourse with Rosamond showed her
that there was no truth whatever in this
report, but she was sure her friend was not
happy.

But on the last day of their stay in Paris
a most unexpected incident occurred. Elsie
was strolling along the Pue de Tivoli alone,
Rosamond and Mona having gone to lunch
with an acquaintance, when the sound of
unmistakable English voices caught her ear ;
and the street was presently obstructed by an
English family, consisting of nine children.

who were marching along In threes, their
parents bringing up the rear.

Paterfamilias stopped Elsie and demanded :
Ou est le omnibus pour  pour '

Aller,' suggested his wife.

Pour aller a Napoleon's tombe ?'

Monsieur began Elsie, fearing he might
be offended if she spoke English, ' Je ne sais
pas  I don't know when the omnibuses run ; '
and at the same moment the lady exclaimed,
'Why, John, it is Miss Ross!'

Mr. Freeman, for he it was, shook hands
with Elsie heartily, saying, ' I ask your
pardon, I am sure, for taking you for a
Frenchwoman. I wish I was at home again
with all my heart, but now we are here, I
suppose we must see the sights.'

I am afraid I can't help you,' said Elsie.
'Well, here's a native, I'll ask him,' and

Mr. Freeman made a rush across the pavement,
and pouncing upon a young man who
was passing, loudly demanded ' Napoleon's
tombe ? '

The stranger gazed upon him for a minute

without speaking, and then quietly gave him
the desired information in English. It was
not till the Freeman family had passed on
that Elsie recognised Ponsonby, who had
stood waiting until she had done speaking
to them, and now greeted her, smiling at
her astonishment.

'And who. Miss Ross, are your charming
friends ?' he inquired, as by one consent they
turned and crossed over into the Tuileries
Gardens.

They are neighbours at Alkerton. I
never dreamt of meeting them in Paris, nor
you either, Mr. Ponsonby.'

'It is very extraordinary our meeting,*
replied Ponsonby gravely, ' at least it would
have been if I had not happened to know you
were here ; but I saw Mrs. Lindsay lately,
and she told me where you were  and whom
yo2t were with.'

Elsie looked up quickly at the last words.

I wondered to meet you here, Miss Ross,'
went on Ponsonby, breaking a twig off a
shrub, and crushing it in his hand as he

spoke, 'seeing that Mrs. Lindsay did not
deem your associates desirable for you.'

'No, but she deemed that  that I had
better go abroad,' said Elsie with an embarrassed
laugh. 'Are you going to stay
some time in Paris, Mr. Ponsonby ?'

That will depend,' replied Ponsonby with
great suavity, ' upon whether I succeed in
what I came for.'

He walked on thoughtfully for a few
paces, and then suddenly assuming an air
of gaiety, said to his companion 

'And what are your first impressions of
Paris, Miss Ross ? and have you bought a
great many dresses ? Is It not a very delightful
city ? This avenue of trees, with the
Arc de Triomphe at the end and all those
nice figures on the top of it, you know. Is one
of the things I admire most. Do you think
I may come and see Lady Seathwaite ?'

'Yes,' said Elsie, 'come.' She said it
bluntly, feeling utterly unable to reply in
her companion's strain. ' And come tonight,
for we are going away tomorrow.'

Ponsonby became grave again Instantly.
'At what hour,' said he, 'may I hope to
find Lady Seathwaite disengaged ?'

They were now opposite the hotel, and
Elsie prepared to go in. ' I will tell her you
are coming at five o'clock this afternoon,'
she said. ' And I  I hope she will be in.'
She gave him her hand as if to wish him
good luck, and went in quickly.

Rosamond received Elsie's intimation that
Mr. Ponsonby was coming to call upon herat
five o'clock with an affectation of extreme
indifference, merely remarking that she supposed
they would want some more cake for
tea. This gave Elsie the excuse she had
been seeking for to take herself and Mona
out of the way ; and they set out rather
late to buy the cake, which Elsie contrived
should be a very lengthy business. When
at last they could delay no longer, and came
in, Ponsonby was still sitting with Rose ;
and both had a look of content upon their
faces which was not difficult to read. Rosamond
was apparently glad to see her and

Mona, however, and scolded them for the
length of time they had stayed out.

'A whole hour to buy one cake!' she
said. ' Look at it ! ' And she uncovered it
and held it up to derision.

But Elsie would not go to any of the
near shops,' piped out Mona in her childish
voice, 'because Mr. Ponsonby does not like
their kinds of cakes.'

Elsie felt it hard that she should be so
mocked at for her well-meant little plot,
which after all had answered very well ; but
Rosamond continued in a mocking humour,
and it was not until long after Mona had
gone to bed that she would bestow any confidence
upon Elsie.

You are a regular little whited sepulchre,'
she said that night; 'I did not know you
had it in you to be so deep. So you knew
all about me from the beginning. Why did
you not tell me ?'

'Well, Rose, if I did wrong you must
forgive me. I could not at first  I knew
before I ever saw you, because David had

told me ; and then of course you were
married. And afterwards  I might have
told you at San Nemo certainly, and once or
twice I nearly did, but  there was something
about you which made me think you would
not like it. But I am very glad, dear Rose.'

'Are you?' said Rose. 'Well, I don't
know whether it is a thing to be glad about
or not. He took me by surprise, you know,
as if it was a matter of course that I would
jump at it, but I don't see that at all. Men
are all alike,' she went on, pouting a little.
So exceedingly cautious. He took very
good care not to come near me until he was
quite sure of me.'

Until the law business about the will
was settled V said Elsie. ' But I think that
was so very nice of him. He would have
put you into the position of having to choose
between him and Mona, and he would rather
have the pain of waiting.'

It is a pain he did not seem to feel very
much,' said Rose. ' The thing was settled
long ago, and where was he, if you please }

Amusing himself with Queen Emma in the
Sandwich Islands. Besides,' she added, with
her face turned away, 'suppose it had been
given against me ? '

But Elsie declined to argue upon this
possibility.

It was not  it would not have been,' she
said. But she knew from that moment that
her friend would have consented to give up
her child, and live apart from her, rather
than from the man she loved.

Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments.'

PoNSONBY accompanied the party of travellers
when they returned to England, and Elsie
went straight back to Chippingham, as her
plan was to remain there until the end of
July, which was the time fixed for Rosamond's
marriage, and after that event go onto
Scotland.

She was not received with any particular
enthusiasm by her aunt or Miss Maynard ;
indeed, she found herself rather de trop, as it
was evident that something peculiarly exciting
had been going on, into the mysteries of
which she was not permitted to penetrate.
At first Elsie thought it must relate to
Emma Dale, who had been married during

her absence abroad, and who had just started
for Canada with her husband, the outfit
having been provided by Mrs. Lindsay ;
but Emma and her backwoodsman were as
nothing to Mrs. Lindsay, compared with the
present theme of her thoughts.

Sophy, it appeared, had been paying a
long visit at the Elms, and was to return in
summer. Her name was not often mentioned,
but when it did occur, she was
spoken of with pomp as 'dear Sophia,' or
'our late beloved inmate;' and Elsie, happening
to say regretfully that she was sorry
she had missed seeing 'dear old Sophy,' was
most severely reproved, and was quite in
disgrace for the rest of the day.

If you permit yourself to speak thus of
Sophia,' said Mrs. Lindsay, ' who is equal to
yourself in social standing, and superior in
many points infinitely more important, I
do not know whither, Elspeth, a longer
course of association with the worldly and
unscrupulous may lead you.'

'Times are changed,' thought Elsie; but

she accepted the rebuke in silence, merely
taking the first opportunity of asking Miss
Maynard whether Sophy were going to be
married, and if so, to whom ? But she
received no definite answer.

'N  no, oh no,' Miss Maynard said. 'I
have no reason to suppose so, none whatever,
dear.' And she seemed so ill at ease
that Elsie good-naturedly changed the subject
and put by her curiosity for the present.

The General had now become much
feebler, and a good deal deafer, and his wife
did not, as before, go to him about all her
schemes and perplexities ; it troubled the
old man, who wished to be left in peace.
He liked having Elsie with him, and she
made him her chief care during the six
weeks she remained at Chippingham.

When the middle of July came she was
allowed to go back to Rose, who was in
London, at her parents' house in Cadogan
Place. Elsie was glad to go, although from
any experience she had had of brides, she
expected to be entirely the giver, not the

receiver, of sympathy. But she need not
have misjudged her friend ; whatever Rosamond's
faults might be, she was not a selfish

 woman, and she was as affectionate to Elsie,
and as interested about all her affairs, as if
she had none of her own to occupy her
thoughts. She made Elsie tell her all about
Chippingham, ' to amuse her,' she said ; butin
reality she wanted to give the girl advice
about her future plans. Elsie told her that
she was going home to Rossiee that year, of
which Rose approved.

Of course,' she said, ' you ought to be

with your father.'

'Yes,' said Elsie; 'and if I find he likes

it, I think I will just stay on.'

Rosamond turned the matter seriously

over in her mind, and took Ponsonby into

her counsels.

I am very sorry for Elsie,' she said. ' I

do not know where that poor girl is to live.

She is quite pleased now at the thoughts of

going home, but I am certain she won't be

able to stand Euphemia and the children.

Then she will go and stay with Aunt Eleanor,
and be dragged into a marriage with Lionel.
I've no patience with them '

A marriage with Lionel ! ' said Ponsonby.
Never ! she is a great deal too good for
that boy.'

I do not say that she would have him,'
said Rose. ' I do not suppose she would.
She does not even see that he is in love with
her (which is very odd) ; but when Aunt
Eleanor sets her heart upon a thing, she will
get her own way sooner or later.'

But it is absurd ! ' said Ponsonby ; * it
must be prevented. Would you wish 
would you like her to live with us ?'

I do not think she would do it, William,'
said Rose with a smile, which went far to
repay her lover for his really generous proposal.
' She must pay us long visits, and
we must defeat Aunt Eleanor if we can. I
would give her a hint about Lionel, but she
is so innocent it might only do harm.'

The wedding took place in London, and
was very quiet. The only guests, besides

Elsie, were Rosamond's parents, her two
brothers, her sister Blanche, and Lady
Eleanor ; Lionel was not invited, and Mr.
Fitzgerald excused himself on the plea of
illness. Elsie was specially desired to bring
Hans, and did so at Mona's earnest entreaty,
though she would have preferred to leave
him behind. Rosamond insisted upon doing
everything herself ; she arranged the flowers,
entertained the company, and behaved, as
Lady Mary rather querulously observed, as
if somebody else were being married.

Lady Eleanor proposed to carry off Elsie
and Mona to Alkerton as soon as the wedding
was over, there to remain until she and Mr.
Fitzgerald went to Scotland, for they were to
spend the autumn at Ardvoira.

We will all go to Scotland together,' she
said, when she heard of Elsie's intention of
going home. ' That will be a charming
plan, Elsie, and you shall pay me a visit at
Ardvoira before you go to your father.'

Elsie demurred at this, but Lady Eleanor
would hear of no objection.

No indeed,' she said, ' I cannot let you
off, Elsie. The house at Ardvoira is an
absolute den of disorder ; I shall never put
it right without your help. Then you will
like the scenery and all that ; Lionel is dying
to show it to you  it is quite his hobby just
now. You know he is never happy unless
yo7c are there,' and Lady Eleanor looked as
if this last argument must infallibly settle the
question, but Rosamond took her friend aside
on the first opportunity.

Don't go to Ardvoira with her,' she said.
You will not if you are wise.'

I do think it would be better not,' Elsie
said ; ' but how can I refuse Lady Eleanor ?
It is a trying journey with Mr. Fitzgerald 
and then if there is nothing comfortable in
the house  and she is not very strong, you
know '

Stuff and nonsense ! ' interrupted Rosamond
with energy. ' I really can't think,
Elsie, how you can let yourself be made a
slave of by that woman ! She is as well able
to do things for herself as you or I. There

VOL. III. D

Is nothing the matter with her  except selfishness.
And you heard what she said about
Lionel'

That is her way of talking,' said Elsie.
Lionel means nothing ; but for many reasons
I would rather not go to Ardvoira.'

She dropped the subject, for she felt it
was one upon which she and Rosamond
would never agree. Rosamond had no
sympathy with Lady Eleanor, whose charms
did not appeal to her in the least ; and she
had very little patience with Lionel. She
could not help rather liking that young man
when he was actually before her, and always
treated him in a pleasant, cousinly way ; but
the moment he was out of her sight she
remembered his faults rather than his virtues,
and being energetic herself, she had no toleration
for idleness, especially in a man. She
was ambitious, too, as well as active, and was
no sooner married than she began to stir up
her husband to distinguish himself in someway.
She would have liked him best to go
into Parliament ; but finding after repeated

efforts that politics were not Ponsonby's
vocation, she set him to write books of travel,
and illustrate them with his own drawings,
since he had failed to make a reputation asa
great painter. But all this came to pass in
later years, and in the meantime the newly
married pair went to finish Ponsonby's interrupted
tour round the world, from which
'urgent private affairs,' in other words, the
news of Sir George Seathwaite's marriage to
a cousin of his own, had recalled him in the
spring.

We must now return to Elsie, who went
with Lady Eleanor to Alkerton, Lionel having
already gone to Scotland. Elsie had not
really disregarded her friend's warning ; and
her eyes being now partly opened to Lady
Eleanor's schemes concerning her, she spent
many anxious hours in pondering upon how
she had best undeceive her. For Elsie to
become Lionel's wife was an impossibility, an
incongruity not to be dreamt of for a moment.
She did not seriously believe the boy to be
in love with her, but it was undoubtedly

better that they should meet as little as
possible until this foolish fancy had passed
away. She therefore remained firm to her
intention of returning to Chippingham, until
one day she received a letter from Miss
Maynard which had the effect of materially
altering her plans. The letter contained the
solution of the enigma which had puzzled herat
Chippingham, but which she had since
forgotten.

The Elms, Chippingham,
August isti.

My dearest Elsie  During the press of
engagements which has rendered your dear
aunt (busy as she always is) more than
usually occupied, she has named me as her
substitute to convey to you tidings which,
we trust, will give you heartfelt pleasure,
while they cannot fail to surprise you. I
have so much to tell you, dear Elsie, that
I feel quite embarrassed how to begin 
embarras de riches ses I Do you remember,
dear, asking me a curiously apropos question
regarding dear Sophia ? I was able to

answer truthfully at that time that she was
not engaged to be married ; but, my love,
she now is so and will (d.v.) shortly become
the bride of my dear nephew Ernest ! This
will take you by surprise, as it did me ; but
to your dear aunt's keen vision the progress
of the attachment has long been apparent.
She observed dear Sophia's unusual depression
during her first visit to us whilst you
were abroad, and at once drew from her its
true cause; but as Ernest had not spoken
she did not feel justified in taking any steps
in the matter. When Sophy returned to us
in July Ernest's diffidence was still very great,
but, thanks to your aunt, it has now been
overcome, and the young people are on the
footing of affianced lovers. I confess I despaired
of this ever being brought about, but
your dear aunt, with her usual decision, did
not allow the young people to endanger their
own happiness hy false pride, and herself told
Ernest plainly that he had engaged the affections
of a young and interesting girl whom
he would find in the dining-room. The result,

my love, you already know, and the
happiness of the young pair is complete.
The marriage will take place (d.v.) at
Michaelmas, and I know that Sophia intends
asking you to stand nearest to her at
the altar in the character of bridesmaid.
Next week our happy ' nest among the
Elms ' will be deserted ; your uncle and
aunt, with dear Sophia, intend going to
London for a fortnight. Very pleasant
apartments have been secured near Kensington
Gardens, where your amiable uncle
loves to walk, the heat there not being so
intense as in the street ; while your aunt
and Sophy, with Parkins's assistance, will
busy themselves with purchases. I hope,
meanwhile, to remain with Ernest at the
vicarage and endeavour to put it in order
for its future inmate. Your aunt desires
me to inform you, with her love, of these
arrangements, as she thinks it a pity for
you to incur the needless fatigue and expense
of returning to Chippingham before your
Scottish visit is paid. Sophy, who has just

come in, desires her very best love, and wishes
that you were here. All unite In kindest
remembrances to Lady Eleanor and her
circle,  and I am ever, dearest Elsie, your
affectionate old friend,

Cecilia Maynard.'

Elsie did not at first regard this letter as
bearing upon her own plans, and expressed
her indignation aloud.

It is too bad  it really is too bad ! She
can't leave that poor man alone. I shall not
go near them  I would not be Sophy's
bridesmaid for '

My dear Elsie, what is the matter?' said
Lady Eleanor. ' I declare you are quite
excited.'

Elsie read the letter aloud, and Lady
Eleanor listened to it with great coolness.


Mr. Maynard is the clergyman, is he not '
Oh yes, very nice that he should marry her
niece. Rather an amusing letter, I think ;
it is so like your Aunt Caroline to arrange

it all. Well, Elsie, that quite settles it, you
see  you come to Scotland with me.'

Elsie bit her lips, she saw how incautious
she had been ; but there was no drawing
back now without seriously vexing her
hostess, so she yielded with as good a
grace as she could, and the Scottish journey
was arranged for the following week.

Little Mona, with her governess, was to
be sent to Wynchcombe ; and to her Elsie
entrusted Hans, to be taken care of until her
return. She felt quite satisfied in doing this,
the child and the dog being inseparable ; and
the prospect of keeping Hans made Mona
perfectly happy.

Sweet Wicklow mountains ! the sunlight shining
On your gi-been hills is a picture rare ;
You crowd around me like young girls peeping,
And puzzling me to say which is most fair.
You seem to watch your own sweet faces
Reflected in the smooth and silver sea ;
My blessing on those lovely places,
Though no one knows how dear they are to me.'

Five years is a long time out of a girl's life ;
and to Elsie especially, who had gone through
such varied experiences since she had left
her home, the period which she had spent in
England was like a lifetime in itself. She
had never forgotten her home, and still
looked back to it often and lovingly ; yet
she had had a strong presentiment on leaving
Rossiee that that page in her life was over
and done with for ever ; and even now it
seemed impossible to be going back to it.
She had something of the same feeling now

as regarded Chlppingham, which Miss
Maynard's letter had helped to strengthen.
Sophy, it appeared, had taken her place, and
she would never be quite the same to Aunt
Caroline again. This was, of course, partly
her own doing. She had found David's
relations more congenial ; and yet the feeling
that the Chipplngham life too had slipped
away from her gave her keen pain. Many
a time she had felt that she must get away
from Aunt Caroline in order to breathe
freely, that she could not stand another day
in her society ; yet Elsie could not but be
touched by the wonderful kindness and
affection with which her aunt had always
treated her ; and it was to her now that her
thoughts turned regretfully, far more than to
her friend Miss Maynard  more even than
to the kind old General.

Elsie had leisure and quiet for all these
thoughts while in the train on their northward
journey, for Lady Eleanor would stand
no nonsense from her husband when she
was travelling with him, and the least word

of complaint from the unhappy Frederick
was speedily quenched by the suggestion
that he might get into a separate carriage if
he was going to grumble, as she, Lady
Eleanor, was not going to sit there to be
annoyed.

The journey as far as Glasgow, however,
was not a very fatiguing one. Elsie had
never considered herself a very patriotic
person, nor thought it necessary to assert
the superiority of Scotland over England in
any way ; yet her soul within her was not so
dead as to deserve the curses of the Last
Minstrel ; for as she stood on the platform
of the crowded Glasgow station, watching a
miscellaneous heap of luggage being tumbled
out of the van, a smile of pleasure lit up her
face at the porter's ' Bide there a wee, till
I get a hurry.' She had never been at
Glasgow before, and had no particular
sentiment connected with that city, yet even
the Glasgow accent, hideous as it is, sounded
friendly to her ears.

The night was spent at St. Enoch's Hotel,

and the journey next day was accomplished
partly by rail and partly by steamer. It was
between three and four in the afternoon that
the steamer was brought to a stop, to permit
the party to get into the little boat which
now drew up alongside of her.

For the last hour and a half they had
been passing through lovely scenery, and
Elsie sat on the steamers deck watching
the gulls following in their wake, or looking
out at the green Argyllshire hills and the
soft and misty islands with a growing pain
at her heart. 'How shall I bear it?' she
said to herself, with her hands clasped tight
together ; 'why did I let them bring me ?'

The sudden stop of the steamer, and the
hissing noise the boiler made, startled her
out of her sad thoughts. Down below was
a little boat, which seemed perilously heaving
up and down on the waves caused by the
great steamer's paddle-wheel, for the sea
itself was as smooth as glass ; and in the
boat stood a young man in gray shooting
clothes and a little gray cap. He was

Steadying the ladder by which the passengers
were to descend, and looking up eagerly
into the steamer, his handsome, still boyish
face all alight with joyful expectation.

Lionel ! my dear boy, do be careful.
What a place to get down ! '

Steady, mother ! give me your other
hand  you are all right. Now, Elsie!' and
before Elsie could think, she was fairly lifted
down in Lionel's strong arms and placed beside
his mother in the stern, while he looked
at her with an evident delight which called
forth an answering smile in spite of herself.

'Take care, Frederick!' in an agonised
voice from Lady Eleanor, as the terrified
Frederick seemed about to precipitate himself
into the sea, and Lionel, clutching his
stepfather s leg, pulled him into the boat.

I wish you would not get in like that,'
she said, as her husband sank down, panting,
amongst the luggage ; ' it does make me so
nervous. You must stay there now, I
suppose, or you will upset the boat, and we
shall all be drowned.'

Another boat now came up to take off
the servants and the heavier luggage, and
the big steamer went on her way. Lionel,
taking one pair of oars, seated himself
opposite, and talked to his mother, answering
her questions and complaints in a cheery
pleasant way, while his eyes strayed to
Elsie's face. She herself sat looking out,
wistful and abstracted. As yet they could
gain no view of the house, which was hidden
by a point they had to round before reaching
the little harbour. The sun of early autumn
shone softly through a veil of mist ; the sea
was silvery gray in the distance where the
shadows of the clouds left lines of light ; the
far-off islands were faint and yet distinct,
their outlines nearly white against the pale
gold sky. Near them now, the rocky point
stood out bold and rugged, and by the boat's
sides every stone and shell and bit of seaweed
could be seen as plainly through the
depths of clear green water as in the
shallowest stream.

The point was passed, and they entered

a small loch or narrow inlet, and drew near
to the little pier. The house was just visible
among the trees, a long low house, blue-slated,
with white walls, rough cast, or
hailed as it is called in Scotland. Behind
the house was a bank of natural wood  oak,
birch, mountain-ash, and hazel  still clothed
in the deep green of late summer. The
thin line of smoke, which rose up in the still
air straight from the chimneys, showed blue
against the dark background. The house
was fenced round by hills ; sharp rocky hills,
steep green hills, heathery hills, stretching
away indefinitely, and vaguely termed ' the
shootings.' A wooded gorge ran up into
this wild region, and lost itself in its
windings ; through it a brown river ran,
murmuring amongst the trees, foaming between
narrow walls of rock past the house,
till near the landing-place it took its final
leap, and dashed into the still gray sea.

The landing was effected without difficulty,
and the party walked to the house, Lionel
keeping close to Elsie's side, but speaking

VOL. HI. E

little, for which she was grateful. The house
was surrounded by smooth green turf; and
large myrtle and fuchsia bushes, untouched
by frost in that mild, damp climate, grew
before the door. The rooms were low, and
rather small, but looked homelike to Elsie's
eyes, though Lady Eleanor groaned over
them as 'uninhabitable.' The library, where
tea awaited them, was rather like the cabin
of a ship; floor, walls, and ceiling being all
of varnished pine ; books were there in
plenty, but invisible behind their panelled
doors.

How musty the house does smell,' said
Lady Eleanor, sinking into a chair behind
the tea-table. 'All houses in the Highlands
have that smell, I think. It is very odd ; I
hope it is not rats, Elsie ?'

'Oh no!' said Elsie faintly, 'rats smell
quite different ; I like this smell. Shall I
make tea for you, dear Lady Eleanor ? you
look tired.'

Do,' said Lady Eleanor, ' it would be a
charity.' She rose out of the rather hard

arm-chair, and stretched herself discontentedly
on the still harder sofa. ' Of all
detestable countries to travel in, I do think
Scotland is the most detestable,' she said.

No, Frederick, you need not argue ' as

Mr. Fitzgerald uttered an inarticulate grunt.
What I have gone through on this journey
no words can tell.'

Lionel looked a little vexed, but did not
contradict his mother. Elsie thought him
graver and more manly than he used to be ;
he was attentive to every one's comfort, and
particularly gentle and thoughtful towards
herself, seeming to know instinctively what
she was feeling, and avoiding everything
which might distress her. He kept near
her and watched her, but spoke little ; and
her first evening in David's home passed
more peacefully than she had dared to hope.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

I now can see with better eyes ;
And worldly grandeur I despise,
And fortune with her gifts and lies.'

Had a traveller been going along the road
which passed the gate of Ardvoira, he would
have come in time to the head of the loch,
some three miles farther on. Here stood
the parish church ; a small, square, white
building, hated and blue-slated like the
houses, and adorned with a little belfry.
There was a village, or what was dignified
by the name of one ; a few miserable-looking,
thatched cottages, from whose chimneyless
roofs the peat smoke curled, giving forth a
strange, pungent fragrance. The manse was
close by, shut in by shrubs, which from
neglect had grown into a thick, tangled
wilderness, overgrown by brambles. It had

an uninhabited look, but a minister existed
nevertheless ; an aged man, whose wife had
died some twenty years before ; his sons had
grown up and gone to distant towns ; and
he, with no servant but an old Highland
housekeeper, lived in a corner of the
neglected manse. He was almost too old
to carry on his duties, and an assistant and
successor was in course of being appointed,
which occasioned considerable excitement
throughout the parish.

About a mile farther up the glen was
another dwelling, nestling among the hills,
which was a remarkable contrast to the dirty,
deserted-looking manse. This was Glen
Torran, the residence of Mr. Carmichael, a
retired East India merchant, who in his early
years had led a seafaring life, but now devoted
himself to farming. By birth Mr. Carmichael
was a Lowlander, but an innate love
of sport and a certain fancy for the Highlands
had led him to buy Glen Torran, where
he and his wife had now spent many happy
years. Their children were all grown up and

settled in life ; their eldest daughter Isabella
had married Lord Ochil, who, it may be
remembered, was Captain Ross's neighbour
at Drumsheugh. Mrs. Carmichael's motherly
heart could not be satisfied without children
about her, and she generally contrived to
have with her some of her numerous grandchildren,
who naturally looked upon Glen
Torran as an earthly paradise. A very bright
little place it looked on this August morning,
with its gay flower-beds, trim hedges, and
little porch clustered over with creepers.
Mrs. Carmichael was weeding in the garden,
a pleasant sight in her shady straw bonnet,
and gown thriftily tucked up. She was a
charming old lady, stout, fair, and comely ;
perhaps sixty-five years of age, but her figure
was still upright, and her complexion as fresh
as that of many a girl of twenty.

Her two little grandsons, Walter and
Hughie Forbes, Lady Ochil's youngest
children, were sharing with the wasps the
last remaining gooseberries.

Somebody is calling you, grandmamma,'

said one of the children, and Mrs. Carmichael
heard her name shouted from the house door.
Catharine ! Catharine!' called her husband
impatiently.

What is it you want ? ' she said, digging
viciously at a dandelion root with her
trowel.

Mr. Carmichael came forward  a hale old
gentleman, with gray whiskers and a wide-awake
hat.

Here's Mr. MThail,' said he.

Mrs. Carmichael gathered herself up and
came forward, all smiles, to greet the aged
minister.

'How do you do, Mr. MThail?' she
called into his deaf ears. ' It's a far walk
for you. Walter, speak to me.' She drew
the little boy close to her and whispered, 'Go
and get your faces washed for luncheon, both
of you, and tell Christina to lay a place for
Mr. M'Phail. Say '' How do you do " first.
Now run away, that's a man. Come away
in, Mr. MThail.'

Catharine,' said Mr. Carmichael, ' the

minister says the Fitzgerald are come.
You'll need to go and see them.'

Indeed ? Have you seen the Ardvoira
people, Mr. MThail ?'

'I will has seen the young Laird,' answered
the old minister,  'and he miss a fine youth.'

Yes, yes, a very nice lad,' said Mrs. Carmichael,
* but have his family arrived ? '

This question caused the old man some
perplexity, but on its being repeated in various
keys by both his host and hostess,
they at last learnt that 'young Ardvoira's
father and his mother, and al his family, and
his men-servants and his women-servants and
his kiss,' had undoubtedly been seen to disembark
at Ardvoira pier the preceding evening.


You'll need to go and see them this afternoon,
Catharine,' repeated Mr. Carmichael.

Tuts !' said his wife, putting another wing
of chicken on the minister's plate  * I'm not
going to call upon people before they're unpacked.'


Her husband, however, nothing daunted.

continued to offer the same suggestion at
intervals all through luncheon, concluding
with the remark, ' Very uncivil not to go and
see them when you know they're there.'

'Well, go and call yourself,' retorted his
wife, ' and I am sure they'll wish you at the
back of beyond.'

As Mr. Carmichael had never been known
to call upon any one In his life, except upon
the most urgent business, this repartee was
rather a symptom of yielding on his wife's
part.

The minister, after fortifying himself with
a pinch of snuff, now observed that he had
had a ' very handsome dinner,' and Intimated
further that ' this seest was the commencement
of his yearly diet of hesitation.' His
hostess, understanding this speech to be Indicative
of a desire to offer up a prayer in
the kitchen, at once conducted the aged
pastor thither, and summoned the household.
This done, she returned to her husband,
observing 

That poor old man gets dirtier every day

he's a perfect disgrace to be seen. What's
that woman of his thinking of that she doesn't
take and wash him ? '

Mr. Carmichael agreed in lamenting with
her the minister's somewhat unsavoury condition,
adding, that it was a poor return for
the expense to which the heritor had lately
been put in supplying the manse with water.

Poor old body ! I'll tell you what, James,'
said Mrs. Carmichael, after a short pause for
reflection, ' I will call at Ardvoira to-day if
you'll order the carnage. And I'll take him
with me, and drop him at the manse ; he's
not fit for those long travels on his feet'

Accordingly Mrs. Carmichael, having
changed her everyday dress, and put on her
best bonnet and cloak, set forth, accompanied
by the minister, and by little Hughie, who
was also, his grandmother said, ' better off
his feet.'

There had been rain during the night, and
a touch of sharpness in the air gave the first
signs of the approach of autumn. The sun
shone brightly, and the loch was blue, flecked

over with little white waves ; the opposite
hills were distinct and clear. The breeze
swept over the hills, bringing out all their
wild sweet scents ; the flowers were at their
best and gayest, heather and bluebells and
golden-rod, and the patches of deep green
bracken were beginning to turn a golden-brown.
Lower down, the sweet bog-myrtle
grew thickly, mixed with starry white grass
of Parnassus and the orange seeds of the bog
asphodel.

Jump out and ring the bell, Hughie,'
said Mrs. Carmichael when they reached
Ardvoira, ' and see that you behave yourself,
now, and speak when you are spoken to.'

Thus admonished, her grandson, climbing
upon the scraper and seizing the bell with
both hands, rang a peal which quickly brought
the astonished man-servant to the door. In
answer to Mrs. Carmichael's question, he
replied that he did not know whether her
ladyship was at home, but would inquire.
In a few minutes, however, she was admitted,
and welcomed with great cordiality by Lady

Eleanor, who well remembered her kind old
friend, and longed for somebody to whom
she might pour out her grievances.

So good of you to come, dear Mrs. Carmichael,'
said she. ' You find us in a shocking
state of disrepair. The journey in itself
was enough to knock one up, and then the
worries I have gone through with servants
and luggage, and Frederick being ill and no
doctor ! '

I am sorry to hear Mr. Fitzgerald is ill.'

Oh, he is never well, and he is such a
bad traveller. He will get over it ; but, my
dear Mrs. Carmichael, just fancy this ! The
cook who came with us yesterday has been
in bed ever since  says the air of the Highlands
does not suit her  and the consequence
is, we must do all the work ourselves, I suppose.
It is fortunate I brought Elsie  oh,
by the way, you know Elsie Ross ? such a
nice girl '

I knew her as a child,' interrupted Mrs.
Carmichael, ' my daughter Isabella was very
fond of her. I heard she was coming with you.'

Well, you shall see her by and by, but
about the cook, what do you advise ? I
don't like to send her straight back, poor
thing, she was so highly recommended, and
she does make excellent clear soup.'

An inquiry into the cook's symptoms now
took place, and from this the talk diverged
to diseases in general, and thence to all the
deaths which had taken place in the two
ladies' acquaintance since they last met.

Mrs. Carmichael's kindly sympathy led
her friend on to talk of David, who had been
a frequent guest at Glen Torran in former
days.

It is very trying for me to come here,
very ! ' said Lady Eleanor, drying her eyes ;
it is for Lionel's sake I do it. I could not
have faced it without Elsie, but to make those
two dear children happy is all I live for now.'
Mrs. Carmichael looked at her in some
astonishment. ' Is Lionel ?  I always understood
' She hesitated.

*Yes, Elsie was engaged to my poor
David,' replied Lady Eleanor. '/ never

thought them suited, and I don't believe the
child knew her own mind, but I am the last
person to throw obstacles in the way of anyone's
happiness. Many mothers, I daresay,
would have different views for their sons, but
Lionel is all I have now, and if his heart is

set on this For my part, I don't approve

of worldly, ambitious marriages. I don't think
they are right.'

She shook her head in a chastened manner,
and rose from her seat. ' Now I should
really like to show you the house,' she said,
and see what you think can be done about
the game larder ; it is so inconvenient, and
I expect a party next month.' She led the
way downstairs. Little Hughie, in obedience
to a sign from his grandmother, had long
since left the room, and the sound of his
voice, which seemed to issue from a dark
passage, made her pause on her way to the
larder.

Ah ! ' said Lady Eleanor, * your little
grandson has found his way to the storeroom.
He is quite safe, Elsie will take

charge of him. You would like to speak to
Elsie  will you come in here ?'

It was a large, light storeroom into which
Lady Eleanor conducted her visitor. Elsie,
with her sleeves tucked up, and a holland
apron tied round her, was kneeling on the
floor, surrounded by numerous brown paper
packages, which Katie, a stout-armed Highland
lass, was putting away under her directions.


Hughie, perched upon a flour-barrel, with
his little legs crossed, was complacently
munching an apple, while he gave his opinion
from time to time on the quality of the goods
which were being unpacked, or addressed
searching questions to Katie respecting the
young man he had seen her walking with on
Sunday.

My dear, I will not disturb you,' said
Mrs. Carmichael, after Elsie had been introduced
to her ; ' you seem to be in your
work. I remember you so well at Drum-sleigh
when you were a little girl.' She held
Elsie's hand, and patted it kindly. ' Don't

let that little snout be a trouble to you,' she
said smiling at Hughie as she went away.

'Yes, a remarkably pretty girl she said
when she was alone with Lady Eleanor ;
but  my dear, excuse me  don't let her
wear herself to death. She doesn't look tome
strong.'

No,' said Lady Eleanor, not in the least
offended, ' I don't think she is  none of us
are strong ; and of course all this is a great
fatigue. I should not be surprised if she
were laid up  not the . least ; and I am the
worst person in the world to look after anyone
who is delicate.'

Oh no ! the Highland air is a fine thing ;
and it does a girl no harm to have something
to do ; but that child wants feeding up.'

Indeed she does,' said Lady Eleanor,
the misfortune is that we have no cook ;
but Elsie is always slight, and her figure is
round if you come to look at it. I was much
thinner as a girl ; indeed, before I married,
the doctors thought I was going into a
decline.'

There was no more to be said ; but when
Elsie and Hughie, after a course of washing
and brushing, presented themselves in the
drawing-room, Mrs. Carmichael spoke affectionately
to the girl, pressed her to come
often to Glen Torran, and when she left,
insisted on taking her in the carriage as far
as the shore, that the salt breezes might blow
some colour into her pale cheeks.

VOL. III.

Die Welt treibt fort ir Ween,

Die Lute kommen und gen,
Als worst du nie geese,

Als ware nights geschehn,
Wie sein' ici mich aufs nee

Hindus in Walt und Four !
Ob ici mich gram', mich free,

Du blest mir tree, Nature.'

The domestic difficulties at Ardvoira were
gradually smoothed over. The cook recovered,
so did Mr. Fitzgerald. Nearly a
fortnight had passed since their arrival,
and Elsie had grown accustomed to her
surroundings. She had grown to love the
place for its own sake as well as for David's,
and its beauty gave her intense, though
melancholy pleasure. She could scarcely
bear the thought of leaving it, even to go
home, though she felt that it was time her
visit came to an end. Lionel contrived to

be constantly with her : whether she combed
the hill, or wandered on the shore, or went
into the garden or up the glen, he was sure
to appear, and linger with her till the last
possible moment. He never said a word
which could give her pain, and was always
most thoughtful and gentle with her, but
she could not help feeling that for his sake,
if for no other reason, it would be better
she should go. She therefore told Lady
Eleanor that she must go to Rossiee the
following week, adhering to her resolution
in spite of all opposition.

'Really, Elsie, it is very hard upon me,'
said Lady Eleanor. ' If you go, I shall
have to entertain all those dreadful creatures
by myself And you were beginning to
look so well ! why, at first people thought
I overworked you, and they may think so
still if you don't get more colour. I should
not wonder, now, if they did. I think it
very likely.'

Nobody could possibly think so,' replied
Elsie ; ' but, indeed, Lady Eleanor, I must

go. Think ! I have not seen my father for
five years and a half.'

'Well, of course if you put it in that
way ; but / believe, Elsie, it is nothing but
obstinacy ; and, say what you will, obstinacy
is a very bad feature in any character.'

She continued to lament over the arrival
of her guests, and the fatigues which she
would have to undergo on their account,
till Elsie began to think herself the most
selfish of mortals.

'You will have Blanche,' she suggested
faintly, 'and Constance.'

Blanche ! ' said Lady Eleanor with
withering scorn. ' Now, I ask you, Elsie,
of what use is Blanche likely to be ?'

I like Blanche,' said Elsie. ' We have
become great friends now.'

Friends ! I daresay  but as to her

being the smallest use to me ! That

girl,' she continued in a tragic tone, 'does
nothing  absolutely nothing, except please
herself. She will lecture about Buddhism
or any of her ridiculous views by the hour

together  of course every one is very much
bored. She does not care, and she will not
even talk to any one she does not fancy.
You may call that kate ton if you like ; I
think it positively wrong. And as for
Constance ' she paused expressively.

I have not seen Constance since she
was married,' said Elsie.

Then you have missed seeing a most
degrading spectacle.'

'What!' said Elsie, opening her eyes.

'Call it what you please,' said Lady
Eleanor, leaning back and fanning herself.
A woman who spoils her husband to that
extent, is to me absolutely revolting. You
have seen Douglas Ferrars  is he a man
before whom anybody could fall down flat ?
Commonplace to the last degree ! And you
remember Constance  a girl you would not
have expected to give up her own way
very readily ? I never admired her much
myself, but she had a good deal of style
undoubtedly, and now she has utterly lost
any looks she ever had. Grovelling at

the feet of that man ! I have no patience
with her.'

Do tell me about it, Lady Eleanor,' said
Elsie, much interested. ' Does he order her
about, or what ?'

Oh, I can't describe it to you,' said
Lady Eleanor, rising off her chair. 'It is
indescribable !'

The subject apparently ruffled her ; she
left the room, closing the door with a slight
bang.

This conversation took place in the
evening, and the post next day brought
Elsie a letter from her father which caused
her much disquiet. Little Patrick (or Peter
as he was generally called), the elder of the
twins, had taken scarlet fever. It was a
mild case, but as Elsie had never had the
fever, her father entirely declined receiving
her at Rossiee ; she must * put off her time
somewhere ' until all danger of infection was
past.

'Oh, well then, Elsie,' said Lady Eleanor,
when this letter was read to her, 'you will

Stay on here and help me with my company.
How fortunate the child took it when he did,
and not later. Do not look so anxious, my
dear ; children always take these complaints,
and ore over them all right.'

'It is not that,' said Elsie, 'but poor
Euphemia ! I think I ought to go and help
her to nurse him  I never take infection.'

Now you are quite silly, Elsie, and I
am sure Mrs. Carmichael, who is a sensible
woman, will say the same ' (they were going
to luncheon at Glen Torran). ' Frederick !
here is Elsie wishing to go and catch scarlet
fever.'

'Indeed!' said Mr. Fitzgerald, who had
a great dread of infection, looking round
in alarm. ' Scarlet fever ! where } how }
what ? '

'Oh, not here,' said his wife, 'and I don't
mean to let her go. Come, Elsie, and get
ready for Glen Torran.'

Mrs. Carmichael likewise treated with
disdain the idea of Elsie's going to nurse
her little brother.

It would be a tempting of Providence,'
said that lady. 'And when her father,
honest man, does not even want her ! Make
your mind easy, Elsie, my dear, and come
and visit me when you are wearied of
Ardvoira.'

But I can't spare her, Mrs. Carmichael,'
said Lady Eleanor. ' Do try and look a
little cheerful, Elsie, it is very good for you
not to have your own way in everything.
You were really beginning to get too independent'


Indeed, Lady Eleanor,' said Elsie, ' I am
only too glad  in a way  to stay, and of
course I will, as you and Mrs. Carmichael
are both so kind as to say so.'

Thus it was settled that Elsie must remain
at Ardvoira, and she could only hope,
to use her own words to herself, that Lionel
would 'take no harm.' He was going to
the Oban meeting before long, that was
one comfort ; and when he returned he
would bring friends with him, while other
guests were expected from England ; so

the constant tete-a-tetes must come to an
end. In her secret heart too Elsie could
not help being glad of the reprieve ; so
she put all doubts out of her mind, and
exerted herself to take part in the conversation.


'And so you are to have a houseful,
Lady Eleanor,' said Mr. Carmichael, who
always thirsted for information about his
neighbours' doings. * I hear you are to
entertain the whole country-side.'

I am afraid I shall do nothing so praiseworthy,
Mr. Carmichael. My guests will
be chiefly my own relations from England,
and Lionel will bring my nephew Lord
Heathfield and a friend back from Oban
with him.'

'Oh! he is to be with the M'Nab party
at Oban, I hear.'

I think  yes  some people of that
name,' said Lady Eleanor, with a little
inflexion of scorn in her voice. ' I know
nothing about them  Lionel picked them
up somewhere.'

Mr. Carmichael laughed heartily, with
a thorough enjoyment of the joke which
Lady Eleanor failed to understand. She
looked inquiringly at his wife, who said,
Yes, he is very rude. James, do you
hear ? you are very rude to Lady Eleanor.
But mercy me, my dear ! don't go about
saying you know nothing about the M'Nabs.
They're the M'Nabs of Auchenbothie, to
say nothing of Mesh, Neigh, and Scours.
You mustn't take their name in vain.'

It's a dreadful name,' said Lady Eleanor
somewhat sullenly.

They were a dreadful clan in old days,
I fancy,' said Mrs. Carmichael; * and they
let nobody forget it now, if they can help it.
They are cousins of yours, I think  at any-rate
of yours, Elsie. Are not you related
to the Stewartss of Knockbrichachan ?'

Yes,' said Elsie, ' I met a lady once  a
Mrs. Macdonald-Smith, who was a Stewart
by birth, and said she was my cousin.'

'Well, those M'Nabs,' said Mrs. Carmichael
impressively, ' are the only people

the Knockbrichachans can marry without
lowering themselves.'

Elsie laughed. ' It is fortunate then, '
said she, ' that there are such people, else
the Knockbrichachans would have to remain
unmarried, I suppose. But by the way,
Mr. Macdonald-Smith '

That was her second husband, my dear !
of course she married a M'Nab to begin
with. Oh, and besides, the Macdonald of
Ardvoira ! why, they are descended from
the old Lords of the Isles that you read
about in history  but they are nothing to
the M'Nabs for all that.'

Mrs. Carmichael said all this with a
twinkle in her eye, but Elsie saw that Lady
Eleanor was a little annoyed ; she disliked
jokes and saw no sense in them.

A day or two later Lionel departed for
Oban. He went with great reluctance ;
and his mother, after her visit to Glen
Torran, treated him with marked coldness,
in order to show him that she disapproved
of his going at all, since he was to associate

with the M'Nabs, whose very existence had
become an offence to her, although she
never mentioned the obnoxious name, or
alluded to them in the most distant manner.

He was not many days away, and Elsie's
little time of peace passed only too swiftly.
The party was expected on the morrow,
and she exerted herself to make Ardvoira
look its best and brightest. She ransacked
the garden for flowers, and brought in what
she could ; a few rain-washed carnations and
sweet peas, china roses, and a store of
beautiful Japanese anemones, both white
and pink ; and from outside she brought
stag's horn moss and bog myrtle, late-flowering
honeysuckle, and yellow and crimson
bramble leaves ; and ivy and rowan berries
to deck the dinner table.

'Don't tire yourself, child', said Lady
Eleanor, ' or you will be as white as a sheet,
and Lionel will think it is my fault ; besides
it is so unbecoming. What have you
brought to wear in the morning ? I am
tired of looking at that brown homespun.'

Elsie laid down her flowers, and began
to reckon up her dresses upon her fingers.
There is the black cashmere that I wore
on Sunday ; and my gray with the corduroy
skirt ; and my blue serge ; and my white
serge ; and my '

Oh, well, I daresay you have enough ;
but I never heard of the white serge before.
Put it on ! I want to see how you look in

it;

Elsie left her flowers reluctantly and
went.

That is lovely !' said Lady Eleanor when
she reappeared. ' That gold-brown embroidery
is simply perfect  isn't it, Frederick .
and yet the dress is so simply made. Turn
round  let Frederick see the back.'

Mr. Fitzgerald, who was a connoisseur
in ladies' dresses, expressed his unqualified
approval.

Now be sure you wear it, Elsie,' said
Lady Eleanor. ' Why keep your clothes
boxed up until they are out of fashion V

It is scarcely suitable for a Highland

place,' said Elsie. 'One scrambles about,
you know, and it will get so dirty.'

Nonsense ! put it on on Sunday then.
You don't scramble to church, I suppose.'

Lionel, with Lord Heathfield and Mr.
Hargrave, had met his cousins at Oban.
They had preferred to take that route, in
order to avoid the longer sea voyage, and
also that they might visit Edinburgh and
see something of Scottish scenery on their
way.

At length word was brought that the
steamer was in sight, boats were put out, and
the Ardvoira party went down to the shore
to meet their guests as they landed. There
they came ! two boat loads of them ; Lionel
first, looking very brown and handsome, and
happy to be at home again ; next Lord
Heathfield, with his faultless collar and
beautifully brushed hair ; Constance Ferrars
and her husband ; and Blanche Mortimer,
who accepted, though rather disdainfully, the
assistance of Charles Hargrave, \\x fiancd.

The first greetings past, Blanche turned

from him, and hastily put her arm through
Elsie's. ' I am thankful to arrive,' she said ;
you have no idea what a bore they all are.
They have dragged me all the way round by
Oban  to see Scotland forsooth ! as if I had
not seen it fifty times. It drives me perfectly
frantic to be turned into a common tourist to
please Douglas Ferrars.'

Blanche entertained the most cordial contempt
for her brother-inlaw which she was
at no pains to conceal.

Lionel, foiled in his attempts to talk to
Elsie, now addressed himself to his mother.

'The JNPNabs were very kind and hospitable,'
said he, 'but I am not sorry to get
back. They have got a capital yacht ; and I
have asked young M'Nab and his sister to
come in it next week, and stay a day or two.'

Lady Eleanor's brow clouded ; she gave
her son no sign that she had heard him, but
went on with what she was saying to Lord
Heathfield.

After a glance at his mother's face, Lionel
did not repeat his remark ; he began to

whistle, and was fain to walk behind with
Charles Hargrave, whose countenance, always
rather melancholy, bore traces of extra depression.


As the party reached the house. Lady
Eleanor drew Elsie aside and said confidentially,
' Lionel has invited some of his
MNabs.'

You don't say so ! ' said Elsie. ' How
many ? '

Two,' said Lady Eleanor, ' a man and a
woman. I shall give them the worst rooms
in the house.'

Of all the Highland clans
M'Nab is most ferocious ;
Except the M'Intyres,

M 'Craws and M'Intoshes.'

There was a considerable element of truth
in the account which Lady Eleanor had given
to Elsie of her nieces. Both Constance and
Blanche were greatly changed since the days
when we first met them at Alkerton, whether
for the better or the worse it is difficult to
say. Since her marriage Constance Ferrars
had almost entirely laid aside her disagreeably
supercilious manner ; on the other hand
she had become somewhat commonplace and
uninteresting. Her husband was one who
professed to admire good housekeeping in
his wife rather than good looks ; accordingly
Constance, neglecting her outward appear-vol.
in. G

ance, threw her whole soul into the management
of her house and servants. Though
she no longer cared to assert her superiority,
her sense of her own importance was by no
means lessened ; hence her own affairs and
those of her husband formed her constant
theme of discourse, which was apt at times to
weary the patience of her friends.

It need hardly be said that Blanche was
no longer disposed to follow her sister's
lead, she would have been highly indignant
had it been suggested that she followed the
lead of any one ; she had ' views ' of her own,
and a soul which despised the ordinary lot of
women. Of men too she had a very poor
opinion, ' idle, selfish creatures,' she would
say, 'thinking of nothing but sport and
pleasure, and without any high feelings or
aspirations.' In spite, however, of her contempt
for the male sex, Blanche liked admiration,
of which she received a good share ;
for though without regular features, she was
very handsome on a large scale, and looked
the picture of health and vigour. She was

now engaged to Mr. Charles Hargrave, who
was the eldest son of the managing partner
in the great brewing firm of Hop wood and

Hargrave, at Stourton, S shire. This

young gentleman had become attached to
Blanche perhaps from force of contrast ; he
was gentlemanlike and refined in appearance,
and somewhat delicate in health, which lent
an air of interesting languor to his large blue
eyes, and slight, rather stooping figure. He
was a kindly, well-disposed young man, not
perhaps overburthened with brains ; and
Blanche had a real regard for him, though
few men would have borne as he did with all
her tempers and caprices.

Lady Eleanor troubled herself little about
her nieces and their affairs ; she pursued
her own way, and was seldom seen in the
drawing-room before luncheon. Elsie found
herself in continual demand ; she had to
listen to Constance whenever Mr. Ferrars
did not claim his wife's attention ; she held
long arguments with Blanche, and was the
repository of all that young woman's confidences

; she had to soothe Charles Hargrave
as often as he was driven to desperation by
his lady-love's ill-humour; and she had to
pay polite attention to Lord Heathfield, who
was always ready to give her instruction.
Amidst all these claims she had little time
to bestow on Lionel  poor Lionel, who had
grown so kind and gentle, and who waited
so patiently for his opportunities, now few
and far between, of speaking to her. Yes,
upon the whole Elsie was glad she had not
gone to Rossiee ; she was certainly of use to
Lady Eleanor, and all would yet go well.
Perhaps, after all, she had been mistaken
about Lionel ; he did treat her much more
like a sister, and when he took her aside it
was to consult her about household matters,
or to plan some expedition for the entertainment
of his guests.

A few fine days alternated with many
wet ones, in which the ladies necessarily
remained a good deal indoors. The weather
had 'broken' earlier than usual, the inhabitants
said ; but as this remark was

repeated every year about the same time,
it had lost a Httle of its significance.

'Well, what have you been doing?' said
Blanche, as two of the sportsmen came in,
wet and rather dispirited, one afternoon.

The incessant rain was blowing in sheets
past the window, blotting out the distant
hills ; upon the nearer ones hung an ominous
little wreath of mist ; the colours of sky, sea,
and land seemed blurred and mixed together
into one dull shade of gray. Blanche was
sitting on a low seat by the fire, studying a
book of Celtic inscriptions and antiquities
of the neighbourhood, in order thoroughly
to get up the subject, as it was proposed to
make an excursion the first fine day to an
old chapel on a neighbouring island.

Where are the others ?' she said, ' and
how many grouse have you shot ?'

Lionel has not come in yet,' replied
Charles Hargrave, stretching out his cold
hands to the fire, 'and Heathfield has gone
to change his clothes. We did not shoot
grouse at all ; we shot snipe and a few

rabbits  did not you hear those shots as
we came in ?'

'Douglas dear, do go and change your
clothes,' said Constance, feeling her husband's
trousers anxiously. * You are wet through,
and will certainly get a return of your
lumbago.'

Mr. Ferrars departed, muttering some
imprecations upon the climate, and Charley
Hargrave was about to follow when Blanche
detained him.

Tell us something interesting,' said she,
'you are very dull company, after all. Did
you shoot well ?'

Not very,' was the reply. ' Three of us
fired at the same rabbit as we came in 
you must have heard the shots.'

I am disappointed in you, Charles,' said
Blanche, turning away. 'Why don't you
kill things for yourself instead of shooting
other people's dead rabbits ? Yes, you may
go and change your clothes,' and Blanche
resettled herself to her studies.

Presently the door opened again and in

came Lionel, with muddy boots and clothes
and hair glistening with raindrops, but with
an air of having enjoyed himself, quite
different from the other two.

Lionel, don't sit down !' cried his mother,
suddenly starting up from her novel as her
son entered. ' You will ruin the furniture.'

Lionel glanced down at his wet clothes,
and stood with his back against the mantelpiece,
smiling down upon the company
serenely. ' Is it near dinner-time ?' said he.
The intelligent observer may discover, even
in this room, that we are going to have curry
for dinner.'

You need not tell us that, Lionel,' said
Lady Eleanor crossly. ' Have we not been
sitting here smelling it the whole afternoon ?
There is nothing more disgusting than a
house which smells of cooking.'

No one had observed the odour until
Lionel opened the door, but at these words
each one sniffed the air and shook his or
her head mournfully ; Constance alone smiled
a contented smile. ' Douglas likes curry,'

she murmured. 'Aunt Eleanor, where do
you get your curry-powder ?'

Lady Eleanor turned her eyes vacantly
upon Constance and answered, ' I'm sure I
don't know, my dear. Lionel, how your
clothes smell of rabbits and  dogs! Why
are you not like your cousin Basil ? he went
and changed directly  and here he is,' as
Lord Heathfield, looking particularly clean
and dry, walked in, and, placing himself on
a comfortable chair by Elsie's side, began to
converse with her about poetry in a low
voice. Lionel eyed his cousin with as much
contempt as he was capable of calling into
his countenance ; and his mother was again
about to make some remark when she was
interrupted by Constance, whose mind was
still running upon Indian condiments.

Douglas used to get a box of curry-powder
and chutney and sauces direct from
India every year. He got it through a
friend, and now  is it not provoking ?  the
friend is dead, so he can't get any more.
Where do you advise me to go ? You can't

get those things thoroughly good at the
Army and Navy.'

How does the sea affect you ?' Inquired
Heathfield of Elsie.

It only affects me when It Is rough,' she
answered, wondering why Lord Heathfield
should pause In the middle of a poetical discourse
to ask her if she was liable to seasickness.


Heathfield looked a little puzzled. ' Tome,'
he said, ' it appeals at all times. The
violence of the storm, the boom of the waves
on a rock-bound shore, may stir up strong
emotion ; yet even in tranquillity it is ever
varied. Do you remember those lines of
Wordsworth 

"The gentleness of heaven is on the sea ;
Listen ! the mighty being is awake,
And doth with his eternal motion make
A sound like thunder  everlastingly"'

*Oh yes! I understand,' said Elsie. 'I
thought you meant oh yes ! I do prefer a calm
infinitely, every one must, I think, who has
lived by the sea, and who really knows it.'

'Why don't you write poetry yourself,
Heathfield ?' said Lionel sarcastically. 'A
sonnet now  on the sea by moonlight  a
most original subject ; or an ode to Punctuality.'


Don't tease him, Lionel,' said Blanche, ina
tone of elder-sisterly admonition.

'Well, I'll go and change,' said Lionel,
feeling that Heathfield, who was allowed to
sit down, had decidedly the best of it ; and
he departed, while Elsie's eyes followed him
wistfully. He had come in so pleasant and
cheerful, and everybody had snubbed ,him;
and now he had gone away displeased, and
probably would not get over it the whole
evening, and though a kind word from her
would put him right, it would be better not
to speak it ; he might think  he might fancy
she meant more  and once again Elsie
heartily wished herself at home.

The rain beat and the wind howled all
night ; and the next morning there was no
change in the prospect.

The M'Nabs will never come in such

weather,' said Elsie soothingly to Lady
Eleanor.

They are capable of anything,' returned
her hostess gloomily.

The gentlemen of the party did not go
out that morning ; they remained, some in
the drawing-room, and some in the smoking-room,
according to their several tastes. Mr.
Fitzgerald and Lady Eleanor retired to the
library ; Constance disappeared at a call from
her husband ; Lionel came into the drawing-room,
but finding that Heathfield had established
himself in his favourite chair, and
proposed to read aloud to the ladies, he withdrew
sulkily, and was presently seen going
out, solitary, in the rain.

Charley Hargrave also came into the
drawing-room, and sat waiting, rather impatiently,
for the reading to cease, that he
might talk to Blanche, and looking out of the
window. A sudden exclamation from him
made everybody look up.

Actually a vessel on the loch ! Can that
be the IVLNabs yacht ?'

There could be no doubt about It ; it was
a large steam yacht, and was making straight
for the landing-place. Lionel had seen it
also, and had gone down to the shore. Elsie
was on her way to tell Lady Eleanor when
she caught sight of Neil, the page-boy,
hurrying up from the shore, and went to
meet him.

'What Is it, Neil? have Mr. and Miss
M'Nab come?'

Please, ma'am, I was to tell her ladyship
that they will be come, and four more pair-sons
forbye.'

'What ?' said Elsie, In great consternation.
Tell me who are come, Neil'

'There will be Captain M'Nab and Mistress
M'Nab, and young Mr. M'Nab and
three young ladies, and they will al be
muslin' to sleep In the loose,' replied Neil,
appearing to breathe more freely after he had
delivered his message without a mistake.

Elsie broke the news to Lady Eleanor as
best she might. It was perfectly true ; six
dripping forms were presently seen accompanying

Lionel up the approach, followed at
a little distance by two more, who proved to
be a lady's-maid and a piper, without whom
the M'Nabs never stirred abroad.

But it is monstrous !' said Lady Eleanor.
It is incredible ! I cannot have them in the
house. Frederick, do you not see those
people ? Go out at once  quick, and tell
them to go away.'

But, my dear Eleanor, it  it is raining.'

Never mind the rain ! go at once  go
quickly and speak to them.'

Mr. Fitzgerald went helplessly to the
door ; Elsie followed him with an umbrella.

Lady Eleanor will be quite glad to see
them,' she said, 'but please make a sign to
Lionel to speak to us.'

Mr. Fitzgerald only groaned, but was presently
seen shaking hands all round with
apparent cordiality.

In another minute Lionel darted in.
Mother, this is rather an invasion,' said
he hastily ; ' but you will be able to put them
up somehow } They were on their way

south, and were driven in by the storm. We
must keep them till it is over.'

'Put them up!' said Lady Eleanor. 'It
is perfectly impossible to put them up, Lionel,
and I don't know what you mean  you are
most inconsiderate. You must go and tell
them I won't have them in the house.'

But you must have them in the house,'
said Lionel, with decision. ' One could not
turn a dog out of doors in such weather ; and
they are wet through.' He glanced at Elsie,
who came forward.

Lady Eleanor, I am sure we could
manage,' she said. ' I have been thinking it
over, and you shall have no trouble. I could
sleep with Blanche '

'And two of them could sleep in the
library,' put in Lionel unluckily.

They can not sleep in the library,' retorted
his mother, turning upon him. ' Is the house
to be made into a pig-sty because a company
of  mountebanks choose to arrive in a
yacht ?'

I don't know, and it doesn't matter,' said

Lionel, doggedly. ' Somebody can have my
room of course ; but to talk of sending them
away is common nonsense. Come, mother.'

Well, it is your house, do as you please
of course,' said Lady Eleanor suddenly.
Elsie, I leave it to you since you seem so confident
; it is quite beyond me, I confess,' and
her ladyship walked with dignity to the door.

The guests had by this time reached the
hall, and were stripping off their saturated
cloaks and greatcoats. Captain M'Nab,
who had got rid of his, quickly advanced with
a bow.

Indeed I consider this a most fortunate
meeting ; I am delighted to make your acquaintance.
Lady Eleanor,' he said, in answer
to her polite expressions of regret at their
half-drowned condition. ' My wife '  indicating
a middle-aged lady in a billycock hat and
an ulster  'my daughters  Miss Williams,
my daughters' charming friend  and my son
Frederick. I fear our numbers must have
taken you by surprise, but my friend Lionel
would take no refusal.'

I told you we were intruding, Hector,'
said Mrs. M'Nab, who looked very cross.

No intrusion in the world,' said Lady
Eleanor, ' I am only sorry that our room is
limited.'

Oh, we are easily accommodated,' cried
Captain M'Nab. ' I was sure you would be
delighted to see us  I told my wife so.
Highland hospitality, you know.'

Here Elsie and Lionel came in together,
and suggested dry clothes, an offer which
was gladly accepted by all. The luggage
not having been brought up from the yacht,
Blanche and Elsie were obliged to ransack
their wardrobes for garments in which to
array their guests, and Lady Eleanor sent
her own maid with a dress for Mrs. M'Nab,
which was however declined, as that lady's
strong ulster had protected her tolerably
well. Elsie had given up her room to accommodate
the Misses M'Nab, and the girls
assembling there, a general trying on of
dresses took place.

It was impossible to be stiff or disdainful

under the circumstances, and even Blanche
joined in the laughter. Miss Ethel Williams,
who was extremely small and fairy-like in
figure, looked very comical in one of Elsie's
dresses, which was much too long for her.
Annie M'Nab, who was middle-sized and
commonplace, was able to put on another,
although it was rather tight ; while Flora,
the elder sister, a stout, handsome, broad-shouldered
girl, managed, after great difficulty,
to struggle into one belonging to
Blanche, not without a considerable loss of
buttons and hooks.

It is too bad,' said Blanche, as she and
Elsie repaired to the room they were to
share together, ' to have them bursting all
our best gowns. Did you ever see such a
collection of monsters ?'

What shall we do with them V said Elsie
disconsolately, looking out of the window at
the rain.

'Never mind them just now  they
seem very well able to take care of themselves.
What do you think of them,

VOL. III. H

Elsie ? what is your opinion of your countrywomen
? '

'Mrs. M'Nab is not my countrywoman,'
said Elsie quickly ; ' I am sure she is English
by her voice. But the girls  how exactly
like her father Miss Flora is. I daresay
some people might call her handsome.'

She has a good deal of side on,' said
Blanche. ' Did you see how she squares her
elbows ? The other one is nothing at all.'

No, she is plain, though I like her face
better than her sister's. But that little Miss
Williams is pretty, very piquant-looking; she
is a Welsh girl, Lionel says.'

Did Lionel appear to take much interest
in her ? ' inquired Blanche drily. ' I thought
I saw her rolling her eyes whilst he was
helping her off with her coat'

Oh, I daresay she is quite that sort of
girl,' said Elsie. ' Luckily, there are a good
many young men here, so that she will be
amused.'

If she thinks we are going to lend her
our young men to roll her eyes at, as well as

our clothes to spoil, she will find herself very
much mistaken,' said Blanche indignantly.
Just you keep your eye on Lionel, Elsie,
and stand no nonsense  that is my advice.'

'But I want Lionel to marry ; I would
like him to fall in love with some nice girl,'
said Elsie earnestly.

Do you want him to fall in love with
Ethel Williams before your very eyes? answer
me that.'

No, I don't.'

I thought not. Not that I think there is
much danger of it,' said Blanche kindly, ' but
'highland hospitality" may be carried too
far. We shall have to go down  there is the
gong for luncheon.'

You shall not exist

For another day more ;
I will shoot you, sir,

Or stab you with my claymore ! '

The M'Nabs did not take long to make
themselves at home, and were disposed to be
pleasant and talkative. Captain M'Nab,
who had been a naval officer, was a lively,
energetic little man, youthful-looking and
rather handsome. He was full of good
humour, praised the dishes at table, complimented
his hostess, and poured forth one
anecdote after another for the enlivenment of
the company. His wife was severe, not to
say forbidding in appearance ; she spoke
little, her eyes were constantly upon her
daughters ; she was civil to Lady Eleanor
and smiled upon Lionel, but snubbed Blanche

or Elsie as often as they ventured to speak
to her. Her son was a heavy-looking youth
of seventeen or eighteen ; he spoke no word,
good or bad, but stared at Ethel Williams
with light blue lack - lustre eyes. Flora
M'Nab was frank and handsome, affecting a
gentlemanly deportment ; she leaned back in
her chair, laughed loudly, and used a good
many slang words. Ethel Williams, on the
contrary, complained of fatigue, spoke in a
faint voice, and refused to eat ; but was not
too much exhausted to carry on a low-toned
conversation with her next neighbour, Lord
Heathfield, to whom she lifted her beautiful
appealing eyes in a way which made havoc
in the heart of that susceptible young nobleman.


The afternoon passed rather heavily ; the
guests sat round, looking at one another and
at their hosts as if they expected some entertainment
to have been provided, but none
was forthcoming. Lady Eleanor, with her
stateliest air, was making conversation to
Mrs. M'Nab; Constance Ferrars retired to

her room ; Blanche buried herself In a book,
and took no notice of any one ; Elsie alone
was affected by the depression of her guests.
To raise their spirits she told them that a
servants' ball was in preparation in the barn
for the following evening, and that all would
be expected to dance at it ; but as tomorrow
night was in the distance, this news was received
with only a faint show of interest.

Flora M'Nab jumped up noisily, squared
her elbow and pointed her toe as if about to
dance ; then catching Ethel Williams round
the waist, she began to whistle the tune of
a schottische, and to prance about. Lady
Eleanor turned her head with an expression
of dignified surprise, and the girls stopped,
feeling uncomfortable. Elsie proposed some
music.

Oh ! I wonder if Ethel's fiddle has come
up from the yacht,' said Flora. 'Just run
and see, Annie, will you ?'

Annie went obediently, and Flora, sitting
down to the piano with a yawn, began to
play a waltz, carelessly, and with a good

many wrong notes. She broke off abruptly
in the middle.

I have forgotten the rest,' she said, ' and
I have not got my music. Oh ! dear me ' 
with another yawn 'can you play. Miss Ross ?'

No, I am sorry I can't,' replied Elsie.
Are you fond of music T

Flora only nodded, and Ethel Williams,
turning up her eyes, said ' I adore it.'

Blanche, do come and sing us something,'
said Elsie.

Sing ? oh, don't ask me, Elsie. One
cannot sing to order, and I am not in the
humour just now.'

Here, Ethel, is your violin,' said Annie
entering. ' I hope it has taken no harm 
the case was rather wet.'

Ethel received it in silence ; she seldom
wasted words upon her own sex. She opened
the case, took out the instrument, and began
to tune it, making such excruciating sounds
that Blanche and Elsie were tempted to put
their fingers in their ears, and Lady Eleanor
felt that this was not to be borne.

Would you rather we went into the
library, Mrs. M'Nab?' said she.

Mrs. M'Nab replied that she was quite
comfortable where she was.

'It is unfortunate,' said Lady Eleanor,
rising, ' but I have a dislike  a constitutional
dislike, to hearing a violin tuned. We
cannot account for or control those nervous
feelings. But pray remain here if you prefer
it.'

Mrs. M'Nab thought it best to follow, and
the two ladies retired to the library. Blanche
presently beat a retreat to her own room, and
after what seemed to Elsie an interminable
time the gentlemen came in and the strangers
began to recover something like animation.
Lord Heathfield at once made his way to
Miss Williams's side ; and Lionel, sitting
down to the piano, played till tea was
announced, and they all adjourned to the
library. Afterwards, the rain having ceased,
he proposed a walk, which was agreed to
with alacrity, only Lord Heathfield and Miss
Williams preferring to remain indoors.

It transpired during the walk that the
M'Nab party intended to stay at Ardvoira
till Saturday, the day of their arrival being
Thursday. Captain M'Nab again made
some slight apology for their numbers.

But,' said he, ' the weather is more likely
to be settled by Saturday, and now we are in
such good quarters I  I assure you we are in
no hurry to move. The more the merrier,
eh, Lionel ? and I am sure no one could have
better fare.'

Lionel, who had to sleep in the yacht, was
not particularly overjoyed at the prospect of
spending two nights there ; however, he entreated
Captain M'Nab to consult his own
convenience entirely, which that gentleman,
with much earnestness, pledged himself todo.
He walked alongside of Lionel, and
confided to him many interesting particulars
respecting his family.

It is curious,' said he, ' but my wife now
she is of no birth  none at all.'

'Indeed!' said Lionel. 'You astonish
me.'

Captain M'Nab regarded him sternly.

'Naturally,' said he, 'you are surprised.
Had I considered my personal feelings  but
I sacrificed them to duty. I trampled them
under foot.'

What circumstances,' asked Lionel, maintaining
his gravity by an effort, ' could have
made such a duty necessary ?'

Ah, my young friend, you may well ask !
The M'Nabs were not what they once were.
Our lands have been taken from us  at least
they would have been, if I had not '

Married Mrs. M'Nab?' suggested Lionel.

Auchenbothie Castle, which has been
the stronghold of our race for centuries, the
islands of Mesh and Neigh in the Outer
Hebrides  every acre of land I have left
would have gone to the hammer if I had
not taken this'  unusual, perhaps  but this
decided step ; if I had not, to put it in plain
words, married a Birmingham pin-girl, and
not even a good-looking one !'

Lionel, overwhelmed with admiration of
this noble deed, was unable for the moment

to make any reply. Presently he said, ' It
has been a case of virtue its own reward, no
doubt.'

Captain M'Nab paused to hit off the head
of a thistle with his stick, then, wheeling
round upon his companion, he answered,
You are right ; I have never had cause to
repent it. My wife is an excellent woman,
and perfectly well-bred. Her children take
after my side of the house ; they were brought
up on principles of my own. I never allowed
my girls to wear stays until they were grownup
 you see the result.'

'Astonishing!' said Lionel, raising his
eyes to look at the 'results,' who were some
paces on in front.

When my daughter Flora first entered a
ballroom,' pursued the captain, ' there was a
general rush, then a perfect scramble for introductions.
We were taken for brother and
sister.'

Probably twins,' murmured Lionel.

At this Captain M'Nab darted a sharp
look at him, but observing the extreme,

almost mournful gravity of the young man's
countenance, he continued 

The Prince of Wales once said of her,
** That Is a deuced handsome girl." It was
at a review ; I did not hear It myself; It was
repeated to me ; but I can believe It, eh ?'

'Certainly,' said Lionel.

It is pretty to see her with the little
Williams,' said Captain M'Nab. 'A charming
girl, Lionel ; charming, that Is, for a
southron. We would not care about such
small figures In our clan. In the old times,
when the M'Nabs were in their glory, a
girl of that size would have been put to
death without mercy ; she would never have
been suffered to grow up. Well, well, the
old days were rough after all.'

The gallant captain continued for sometime
to dilate upon young ladies and their
charms, and Blanche and Elsie came in fora
due share of commendation ; but when the
latter was mentioned Lionel made some
excuse to leave him, and walked on with
the ladies.

With the assistance of music and games
the evening passed gaily, until, the elder
gentlemen coming in from the smoking-room,
a party of whist was made up. Mr.
Fitzgerald, who piqued himself on his skill
in the game, had Douglas Ferrars for his
partner, while Constance played with Captain
M'Nab. Soon Lady Eleanor and Mrs.
M'Nab, who were sitting together on the
sofa, were startled by a somewhat noisy
dispute at the whist-table, which ended in
the fiery captain springing up, throwing
his cards on the table, and exclaiming, ' I
decline to play any longer ! After such an
accusation, I decline it utterly and entirely!'

What is the matter ? ' asked Lady
Eleanor.

'Hector, I am ashamed of you,' said
Mrs. M'Nab. ' To lose your temper over
di game'

'What is the matter ?' said Lady Eleanor
again.

'A case of revoke!' cried Mr. Fitzgerald,
who also appeared considerably heated, 

a clear case of revoke ! You refused spades
you all saw him refuse spades,' he continued,
looking round,  ' and look here ! ' He
caught up the hand of cards from the table
and triumphantly produced the seven of
spades.

Do you wish to insult me ?' shouted the
captain, dancing with rage. ' I decline to
submit  I  I leave this house tomorrow!'
and he seemed about to bolt out of the
room, when Lady Eleanor interfered.

'Captain M'Nab,' said she, 'I am sure
no rudeness was intended. Frederick, who
cares for your trumpery seven of spades ?
Put it away and be quiet. Tell Captain
M'Nab you did not mean to be offensive.'

I certainly hope that no one will leave
my son's house,' said Mr. Fitzgerald; 'but
as to the revoke, it was a palpable one.'

Lady Eleanor waved her hand impatience
; but Captain M'Nab had by this
time recovered himself ' Lady Eleanor, '
said he magnanimously, * I am hot-blooded
I admit it ; it is a characteristic of my

race. But one word from a lady, and I am
disarmed. Let us say no more about this
occurrence ; I am willing that It should be
forgotten.'

Lady Eleanor bowed, so did Mr. Fitzgerald,
and a rather awkward silence ensued ;
then the hostess, discovering that it was
more than time to retire, desired Lionel to
light the bedroom candles, and forced away
the unwilling young party from their
game.

'That Captain M'Nab is the most detestable
man,' said Constance the next morning.
' Just fancy. Aunt Eleanor, Douglas
said he was so rude to him last night in
the smoking-room.'

'He is a quarrelsome little creature,' returned
her aunt indifferently. ' People should
not irritate him. What was it all about ?'

Oh, they got upon politics, and he said
the most dreadful things ! He thinks all
Radicals should be hanged, and wishes Mr.
Gladstone to be drawn and quartered.'

There would not be many people left

in Scotland If his wishes were carried out,'
said Lady Eleanor drily.

'And Douglas did not Irritate him,'
continued Constance In an injured tone.
Douglas is not a Radical, you know  he
is an advanced Liberal, and his opinion
was '

'And what more did Captain M'Nab door
say ?' Interrupted her aunt.

Oh, he was most insulting about that
horrid election at Flamborough last year.
You know Douglas not getting in was entirely
the result of bribery.'

'And did they come to blows ?'

Aunt Eleanor, please do not laugh at It ;
Douglas might have been killed. Captain
M'Nab was gesticulating with a soda-water
bottle  just fancy if it had struck him ! 
but Lionel gave his arm a little jerk and
he let It fall, and mercifully It broke on the
floor.'

'Well, it is very tiresome,' said Lady
Eleanor ; ' the carpet will be full of broken
glass. I wish the M'Nabs would go away,

with all my heart, and what I am to do
about Heathfield I don't know, for the silly
boy seems quite infatuated with that Miss
Williams. The charge of a young man is
a heavy responsibility.'

This conversation took place before
breakfast. Lady Eleanor and Constance
being the first in the dining-room ; it was
interrupted by Lord Heathfield's entrance,
and his aunt did not fail to notice that he
wore in his buttonhole a pink carnation
which had adorned Miss Williams's dress
the evening before.

There was a marked improvement in the
weather that day ; the gentlemen made preparations
to go out to shoot, and Lady
Eleanor called her son aside.

Lionel,' she said, ' remember that I trust
to you to take care of Heathfield. He is
making a perfect fool of himself with that
Miss Williams  his parents would be dreadfully
annoyed if they knew.'

My dear mother, am I Heathfield's
keeper ?'

VOL. III. I

There is no occasion to be profane.
Take him out with you to shoot, and keep
him with you  that is all I ask. Don't
listen to any of his excuses.'

I can't take him if he doesn't want to
go. Besides, I don't know that we can all
shoot.'

Then leave some one else behind  leave
the M'Nab boy.'

*The M'Nab boy is going to fish, and
Heathfield said something about it too.'

I won't have Heathfield fish,' cried Lady
Eleanor vehemently; 'he will loiter about
the house the whole day long. Can't you
make some excuse ? Leave Douglas Ferrars
behind and take Heathfield tell him you
are afraid of Douglas and Captain M'Nab
shooting each other.'

Lionel burst out laughing. 'A brilliant
idea, mother ! I will tell him so  it will bea
great joke. Heathfield believes everything
I tell him if I am only solemn enough.'

Do not be silly and make a jest of everything,
Lionel,' said his mother. ' I would not

have you tell an untruth for the world.
They really might shoot one another  at
least Captain M'Nab might shoot Douglas.
Not that he would be any great loss she
added meditatively.

Nevertheless it is our duty, as Christians,
to prevent bloodshed,' said Lionel. ' Besides,
I do not wish to be annoyed with his funeral.
Make your mind easy, mother ; Heathfield
shall go out shooting, and I have asked
Major James and Mr. Famille to come tonight
for the barn dance, so Miss Williams
will have plenty of cavaliers.'

While the above conversation was going
on, Flora M'Nab had laid hands upon her
young brother and forcibly dragged him
into the passage.

Roddy, I want to speak to you.'

'What do you want?' grunted the unwilling
Frederick.

I want to ask you  papa does not really
mean to go away to-day, does he ? '

I am sure I don't know. Can't you ask
him yourself?'

Don't be stupid ! it would only put it
Into his head. He mustn't go till after the
dance. I only mean, is he offended with
Mr. Fitzgerald still ?'

No  I don't know. There was a row In
the smoking-room last night'

'With Mr. Fitzgerald?'

No, not him, he went to bed  the other
man.'

'Who ? tell me quick.'

Don't claw a fellow. Take away your
hand or I'll not tell you anything.'

'Oh, bother! There, I'm not touching
you. Who, Roddy T

The one with the bald head, I don't
know his name.'

Oh ! and you think he'll stay ?'

I don't know and I don't care. Let me
away, or I'll get him to go.'

Vou get him to go indeed ! ' said Flora
contemptuously, for her mind was now quite
relieved. ' What are you going to do to-day,
Roddy ?'

Fish,' replied Frederick laconically.

'Not shoot?'

I'm not going to be bothered with all of
them!

But you will have Lord Heathfield if
you are going to fish ; he said he was going
to '

I don't want him, he's a fool. Get out
of my way, can't you?' and, pushing his
sister aside, Frederick went to collect his
fishing tackle.

Captain M'Nab said nothing about leaving
Ardvoira that day. There had been a
slight cloud upon his brow at breakfast ; he
glared across the table at Douglas Ferrars,
who glared back again, but no word passed
between them. Lionel did not fail to remind
Heathfield of this circumstance, and by his
artful representations so worked upon the
guileless mind of that excellent young man
that he consented to join the shooting party,
while Mr. Ferrars was invited by the ladies
to drive with them to Glen Torran.

Lady Eleanor had intended that Ethel
Williams should accompany her thither, but

the young lady excused herself on the plea
that driving always gave her a headache ;
and all the girls of the party begged to be
allowed to stay at home and decorate the
ballroom. This occupied them the most of
the day, and in the afternoon they received
assistance from the sportsmen, who came in
from shooting rather early. The work, however,
proved too exhausting for some of the
party, and when Lady Eleanor returned
from her drive she found her nephew and
Miss Williams in their accustomed corner of
the drawing-room, apparently quite satisfied
with themselves and their position.

I am sham'd thro' all my nature to have lov'd so slight a thing.'

Major James and Mr. Fairlie were two
gentlemen who rented Loch Voiraa Lodge, a
shooting on the other side of the loch, and
were pretty frequent visitors at Ardvoira.
Major James was a stout, middle-aged man,
with a good-natured face and twinkling eyes.
He had a fund of quiet humour, a love of
the good things of this life, and was a keen
observer without seeming to be so. His
friend Mr. Fairlie was a much younger man ;
he was fond of sport and somewhat shy in
ladies' society.

Immediately after dinner the whole party
adjourned to the barn, which was a large
one, and had been built by old Mr. Macdonald
with a view to entertainments of this

sort. The night was fine but dark, Lady-eleanor
called for a lantern, and with some
difficulty one was procured, and care had to
be taken not to stray off the farm road or
fall into the ditch.

The barn when they arrived, however,
was tolerably well lighted with candles and
a few Chinese lanterns. One by one they
ascended the winding wooden stair ; the
buzz of talking ceased, and every one stood
up as they came in. Some seats had been
erected at one end of the room, and as soon
as the elders of the party were settled in
their places Lionel spoke apart to the
musicians, who consisted of the M'Nabs'
piper; Pritchard, who was a performer on
the violin ; and several other amateurs in
the neighbourhood. The pipers struck up a
reel; and every one who could dance it was
soon in motion. The ballroom was somewhat
crowded, and to a spectator the mass
of moving figures was bewildering and the
noise deafening, for the music was mingled
with the sound of stamping, shouts, and yells.

Captain M'Nab particularly distinguished
himself; he leaped higher, stamped harder,
yelled louder, and snapped his fingers more
sonorously than any one else in the room ;
all animosity seemed to be forgotten.

The first dance was not permitted to be
exclusive, every one took a partner from
among the farm or house servants, but when
it ended Lionel looked about for Elsie. She
was sitting down, and he made his way to
her at once.

You not dancing, Elsie ? I thought
you were famous at reels. You will dance
the next with me, won't you ? it is a schottische.'


I have been sitting out this dance with
my partner,' explained Elsie, as she rose and
took Lionel's arm ; ' he is the fisherman from
Loch Voiraa, and a very agreeable man ; but
he tells me he can't dance because he has
sprained his leg tomorrow fortnight. He
lass not very much English.'

I am in luck to get you for this, I suppose,'
said Lionel, as he led her out ; ' I never

see you now, Elsie. Why do you avoid meas
if I had got some disease ?'

Lionel, don't say that. We must do our
duty, you know, to the company ; I don't
think we are doing it now.'

Nonsense ! this is the dance when weare
all allowed to choose our partners ;
look at Heathfield figuring away with Miss
Williams.'

*Yes  come, Lionel, don't let us lose it
all ; I love a schottische.'

It was a pretty sight to see Elsie dance ;
so lightly, and with such evident enjoyment,
and yet with a sort of measured grace
which prevented the possibility of turning
the Highland schottische into the romp which
it is too apt to become. So thought 'Lady
Eleanor as she watched the pair approvingly,
but Mrs. M'Nab turned up her nose.

Miss Ross has just come from abroad,
has she not ? She seems to affect a sort of
French manner.'

Frenchwomen do know how to carry
themselves, don't they ? ' answered Lady

Eleanor. ' Young ladies nowadays so often
dance like dairymaid,' and her eye rested on
Flora ; * but Elsie did not learn her manners
in France.'

The order of the dances generally consisted
in two reels and then a waltz for the
benefit of the gentlefolks, and after every two
or three dances a Gaelic song was called for.
The singer had no musical accompaniment,
but every one who knew the chorus joined
in ; while the audience sat in a ring round
the room, and every two persons waved a
pocket-handkerchief between them, each holding
it by a corner, and swaying it gently to
and fro in time to the music, according to the
Highland custom. After the first two or
three dances Lady Eleanor left, accompanied
by her husband, the Ferrarses, and Mrs.
M'Nab, but the others remained till a pretty
late hour. Liberal refreshments had been
provided for the dancers down below, but the
quality ' refrained from partaking of these
in view of the supper which awaited them
at home. At last even the stout-limbed

M'Nabs showed symptoms of weariness ;
and, after Lionel had made a short speech,
which was received with much applause,
the party withdrew amidst tumultuous and
renewed cheering.

There was no lantern this time to guide
their steps, and Lionel, drawing Elsie's arm
within his, went on in front, feeling his way
cautiously.

Let every man give his arm to a lady and
follow,' said he. * It won't do to fall into that
ditch.'

For the last hour or so it had been remarked
by Major James, who had been more
of a spectator than an actor, that Lord
Heathfield had disappeared, and that Miss
Williams, whether from fatigue or some
other cause, was looking pale and unhappy.
In coming down the wooden stair she called
out that she had twisted her foot. Several
gentlemen proposed to carry her home, but
she declined these offers, and managed to
walk, supported on each side by Major James
and his friend.

Are we all in ? ' cried Lionel as they
reached the door.

Wait one moment,' said Major James.
There is a lady seriously hurt.'

Miss Williams! what have you done to
yourself?' exclaimed Lionel, as the fair burden
was brought into the dining-room and
deposited in the largest arm-chair.

All crowded round with remedies, Lionel
brought her a glass of wine, Charley Hargrave
knelt down to take off her little shoe,
and Captain M'Nab pinched her leg to see if
any bones were broken.

'All sound, thank heaven!' said he with
a serious face, addressing the company generally.
' In cases like this, always feel the
limb first, to see if any bones are broken.
When we were stationed at Zanzibar, a friend
of mine slipped and broke his leg  bone was
broken clean through, and he never would
have known it if I had not pointed it out to
him. I bandaged it at once  made him a
pair of splints of two stout leaves of the aloe
plant  bound it up with cocoa-nut matting 

had him carried to the ship by a couple of
blacks  and in a very few weeks that man
was on his legs again. The ship's doctor
said no surgeon could have done it better.
But this is a simple sprain, if Miss Ross
happens to have any  where is Miss

Ross r

Elsie had brought in a little iron kettle ;
mended up the decaying fire, and at this
moment entered with a pair of bellows.

If it is a sprain,' said she, ' hot water '

Ah, that is the thing !' said Major James,
taking the bellows from her, and blowing up
the fire. ' We shall soon have Miss Williams
all right.'

'Hot water, my dear Miss Ross!' cried
Charles Hargrave in great excitement.
When I sprained my ankle, I was ordered
to have a continual trickle of cold water
upon it night and day ! '

Let us carry Miss Williams into the
pantry, and hold her foot under the cock!'
suggested Lionel.

But she could not stay there all night,

could she ? ' said Mr. Fairlie, giving his
opinion with diffidence.

Tight bandages to keep down inflammation
!' said somebody else.

That would only increase it ! ' shouted
another.

Arnica!' cried Captain M'Nab, raising
his voice. ' Flora ! Annie ! have you brought
any ?'

By this time the water was hot, and Elsie,
with Major James's assistance, bathed the
patient's foot with it.

Thank you,' she said faintly, ' I do think
it feels better.'

Lionel drew in a little table, and supplied
her with refreshments, saying, ' You must
eat. Miss Williams, starvation is the worst
thing in the world for a sprain.'

There is nothing whatever the matter
with her,' muttered Blanche, following Elsie
as she went to replace the kitchen-bellows ;
look at all those men round her ! is it not
enough to make one sick ?'

I don't think there is much the matter,'

said Elsie ; ' but what on earth has become
of Heathfield ?'

Blanche only shrugged her shoulders, and
they returned to the dining-room, where the
rest had begun to attack the substantial cold
supper.

Oysters, by all that's glorious ! ' said
Major James. ' Do let me help somebody.
Miss Mortimer  Miss Ross, after your
errands of mercy ? '

Have some ham with your turkey,' said
Lionel, ' I can recommend it. But surely weare
not all here  where is Heathfield ?'

Gone to bed two hours ago,' replied
Charley Hargrave. ' Where is Roddy
M'Nab?'

Every one looked around, and at last his
sister Annie said, ' I don't think Roddy left
the barn when we did.'

He did not seem able to tear himself
away from Katie Gillies, the grieves
daughter,' said Flora scornfully.

'Never mind him,' said his father, * he'll
turn up, never fear.'

And in truth young Mr. M'Nab returned
safely, in company with the servants, at
about five in the morning.

Elsie,' said Blanche, when the two retired
for the night, ' I'm tired to death, aren't you?
That girl, Ethel Williams, with her airs, is
enough to make a saint ill  did you see them
all taking off her shoe ? Yes, you may laugh,
Elsie, but Lionel was quite as ready with his
advice as any of them. We shall have him
at her feet next.'

I don't think Lionel took a serious view
of the case,' said Elsie, 'or Major James
either.'

But Charley did,' said Blanche vindictively
; ' he got quite excited about it ; upon
my word, he grows stupider every day.
Really men are the most despicable creatures
! I have a great mind to go into a
convent.'

With these words Blanche flung herself
into bed and buried her head in the bedclothes,
as if bidding adieu to the world and
its vanities; only looking up again to remark,

VOL. III. K

If tomorrow is a wet day and they don't
go, I shall remain in this bed until they do.'

Before Elsie got Into bed, she threw open
the window and looked out, breathing a
fervent prayer that the day might be fine.
If we have two more days of them,' she
thought, ' for they cannot go away on Sunday,
I do not know what will become of us.'

It seemed a fairish night ; the wind was
sighing softly in the trees ; a faint gray light
was creeping up the sky. In the distance
she could just hear the regular wash of the
tide ; all promised well for the morrow, and
Elsie slept peacefully. She had forgotten to
pull down the blind, and in the morning was
awakened by the sun, which streamed into
the little room ; it was a joyful sight. It was
one of those rarely beautiful days which are
doubly welcome in the ' broken weather ' of a
West Highland autumn. Elsie, who had
come down a little early for breakfast, went
to the door to enjoy the sunshine, and presently
caught sight of Lord Heathfield,
pacing up and down with a most woebegone

countenance. She went up and spoke to
him, and soon the two were deep in conversation.
As the gong sounded for breakfast,
and they turned to enter the house, Elsie
looked up and caught sight of Ethel Williams's
face at her window ; she had evidently been
watching them. Soon afterwards she appeared
in the dining-room, limping a little, but
declaring that her foot was much better, and
that there was nothing to prevent her leaving
Ardvoira that day. Every one was down in
fairly good time ; there was a bustle of preparation,
polite speeches and good - byes.
Captain M'Nab hurried his party off as soon
after breakfast as might be ; and Lady
Eleanor had the satisfaction of seeing the
white sails of the yacht round the point, and
vanish behind its projecting crags.

Thank Heaven they are gone!' exclaimed
Blanche piously, as she extended herself in
the best arm-chair the room afforded. ' What
shall we do, Elsie ? let us celebrate the occasion
in some way.'

Come out for a walk, Blanche. There

has not been such a fine day since you came,
and it is a pity to lose any of it.'

A walk ? ' said Blanche. ' I suppose I
shall have to take to regular walks some time
or other. You know I am getting much
stouter  don't you think so ? '

Let us walk to the top of the hill then,
and see the view  that will be very good for
you.'

How much thinner do you think it will
make me ?' said Blanche, rising lazily, and
putting a hand on each side of her shapely
waist ; ' that consideration is a oood deal
more important to me than any view. Well,
come along, I'll get ready.'

The two girls were soon on their way up
the hill at the back of the house, which was
not very difficult of ascent. They passed first
by a little path through the wooded glen,
crossing the river by a bridge, then, opening
a rustic gate, they found themselves on the
dry sunny hillside. Autumn tints had begun
to appear unmistakably amongst the foliage;
the birches which fringed the river banks

had already turned yellow, and were showering
their leaves into the brown water. The
lady-ferns had faded ; and on the hillside the
purple heather had turned brown, and the
bent grass golden.

It is the time when flowers grow old,
And summer trims her mantle's fringe
With stray threads of autumnal gold.'

Now that we are alone,' said Blanche,
tell me about Heathfield. I saw you come
in with him this morning, and I have been
dying to ask you what has been the matter.
Surely Ethel Williams can't have snubbed
him . '

Oh no ! ' said Elsie, ' not she, but he has
made up his mind to renounce her. She has
told him a lie.'

Dear ! how pleased Aunt Eleanor will
be ! How big a lie was it ? What was it
about ? '

He had not time to go into it very
minutely, and it was a painful subject, but as
far as I could gather, it was about Morris's
poetry, which she declared she adored, and

afterwards he found out that she had never
read a line of it.'

And was that all ? was that the cause of
all his woe ? was that why he went to bed
last night at eleven o'clock, and came down
this morning looking like a dying fish ? ' and
Blanche kicked away a stone contemptuously.

He never closed his eyes all night,' said
Elsie a little tremulously. 'It's a shame to
laugh, but really to think of poor Heathfield
not sleeping a wink all night because Ethel
Williams told a lie.'

As if she ever, by any chance, spoke
the truth,' said Blanche. ' I could not have
believed even Heathfield would have been
so idiotic. Now I understand his leaving
the ball, but why did she sprain her
ankle ?'

I think she really did twist it a little ;
you know her heels were very high, and I
don't think any one gave her his arm down
the stair.'

'They could not,' said Blanche indignantly,
'there was not room. But I should

have thought the sprain had been an excuse
to stay.'

I think, poor girl,' said Elsie hesitating,
that she thought Heathfield had told me
about the lie, and she did not like to stay.
She might think he was going to tell everybody
in the house.'

'Hum,' said Blanche. 'I don't know,
but at any rate it is not worth while going
into all her petty motives. How narrow
people's minds are  how contemptible !
Now there was not one of all that set that
one could have exchanged an idea with ;
and our own party are very little better.
What do they think of but sport ? slaughtering
unfortunate grouse and hares and sea-trout
?'

'Oh, I do not think that is fair! Now
even poor Heathfield is full of ideas, although
they may not be very shrewd ones ;
and Lionel is very clever when he chooses
to give his mind to a thing ; and Mr.
H agra ve '

Don't talk to me about Charley Hargrave

unless you are going to abuse him.
Ideas! he has no more ideas than a tomcat!'


He has no opportunity of expressing
them ; you snub him every time he opens
his mouth.'

He has not got them to express,' persisted
Blanche. *I am not at all sure,' she
went on, 'that marriage is not altogether
a mistake. Look at Constance and what
she has become  to be sure one need not
sink so low as that ; but all married women
that I ever saw are either wholly given upto
society, or they have fallen into a state
of drivelling imbecility over their children
and servants and housekeeping. Now an
unmarried woman can let her mind expand
and develop ; she can cultivate higher and
more exalted thoughts  dear me, how steep
this is, Elsie ! let us sit down and rest upon
those stones.'

Elsie laughed as she sat down beside
her. ' If you are going to cultivate these
ideas, Blanche, you must really take more

exercise. Nobody will believe you are all
soul if you are stout'

Blanche smiled good-humouredly. ' How
do you manage to keep so slim, Elsie ? you,
who don't profess to be all soul. Ah, but
I believe you have ideas you don't talk
about, you sly creature ! perhaps that is
what makes you sciatica with me. But
you were going to say something about
Charley  now I should like to have your
real unblessed opinion about him.'

I like him,' said Elsie. ' I think him
good and kind, dear Blanche, and a gentleman.
And I am sure he really loves you.'

Blanche pulled up a handful of grass and
looked at it attentively. 'Yes,' she said
after a moment ; ' I think he is all you say,
but  you know his relations are all brewers ;
he is a brewer himself; I should have to
live in a flat country (which I am not accustomed
to), full of factories, and I should be
utterly steeped and saturated in beer. Of
course I mean morally. Well, there is not
much soul in that, you will allow.'

On the contrary, if you give up what
you Hke, not from any mean motive, but
for the sake of some one you care for, you
would be doing a fine thing, and surely
actions are better than ideas.'

Well, but I might sink and become debased,
and you have no idea how flat the
country is  you can scarcely imagine it here,'
and she looked pensively at the landscape.
 There really is a good deal of soul about
these islands and hills and things. Come !
I have a great mind to go to the top after
all.'

They set themselves once more to the
ascent, and in another quarter of an hour
had reached the top of the hill.

Look, Blanche!' said Elsie, pointing to
a little speck far away on the blue water.
I believe that is the M'Nabs' yacht. What
ages it seems since they went!'

I hope I shall never see them again,'
said Blanche viciously. ' After all, wherever
one lives, one is sure to have tiresome
neighbours. I had forgotten the M'Nabs,

and was just thinking of the delightful
solitude of this place compared to Stourton.
The people there are all so dull, and oh !
my dear, if you only saw their clothes !
Well, I suppose it is my fate,' and Blanche
sighed deeply. From Blanche's manner,
Elsie felt more sure than she had ever
done before of the reality of her affection
for Charles Hargrave ; she had wondered
at times whether Blanche was only playing
with him, and felt sorry for the young man,
whose gentle courtesy and forbearance she
had often admired. She rejoiced, therefore,
to see how Blanche seemed to court
the subject, and was willing to find fault
with her lover in order to be contradicted.

Stourton will leave off being a dull
neighbourhood when you are in it, Blanche,'
she said gaily. ' You have plenty of energy
in you, and will be able to work reforms.
Your destiny shall be to give a higher tone
to the society, and put exalted ideas into
the people's heads.'

'I am to elevate the people,' said Blanche,

while Charley elevates the beer. To do
him justice, he has done that partly already,
for he has set his face against putting tobacco
into it. Fate is a strange thing,
Elsie ; I wonder what will be yours ?'

I have no fate, ' answered Elsie. ' I
have not it in me to reform people ; I can
suffer, but I cannot fight ; I can only go
with the stream. One thing I know ; I
shall never marry.'

You never marry ! ' exclaimed Blanche.
'What rubbish!'

'It was foretold me once,' said Elsie
dreamily, ' by a woman who told fortunes
by the hand  years ago. I did not believe

it  then But come, Blanche, we must

not spend our lives on the top of this hill.
Let us go home, or the people down below
will be dragging the river for us.'

Or the loch,' said Blanche. ' That would
keep them amused for some time.'

God calleth preaching folly. Do not grudge
To pick out treasure from an earthen pot.
The worst speak something good ; if all want sense,
God takes a text and preached patience.'

'We are all going to church to-day,' said
Lady Eleanor in a resolute tone the next
morning. ' I will hear of no excuses. Last
Sunday it was the rain which kept you away,
and the Sunday before it was something
else, but there can be no reason against
going to-day ; ' and she pointed to the window,
whence the sunshine streamed gaily in.
The weather had undoubtedly been a
sufficient excuse the Sunday before. Rain
had fallen in torrents, and not one of the
party had even ventured out of doors in the
morning. Instead, they had collected in the
drawing-room, and held some rather hot

arguments upon religious questions. The
Immortality of the soul had formed one of
the chief subjects of dispute, and had given
rise to a variety of opinions. Douglas
Ferrars began by denying that the soul had
any existence after death ; he said he had
reason for being quite convinced of the contrary,
and could not be mistaken. His argument
was, that he had once been very nearly
drowned, in fact, quite insensible ; and yet,
spiritually, he had not experienced anything
in particular.

Elsie advanced in reply, that being very
nearly drowned is a different thing from being
quite drowned, and that if the latter fate
had overtaken Mr. Ferrars, he would not, at
all events, have been able to come back and
relate his experiences.

Mr. Ferrars was fond of telling the story
of his escape from drowning, and it always
made his wife very uncomfortable ; she did
not like to hear him putting forth heterodox
opinions ; neither did she like to hear him
contradicted by Elsie.

Douglas, dear, we are bound to accept
the Church's teaching about a future life.
But you know '  turning to Elsie, and speaking
in a lowered tone  ' he really was quite
insensible and cold for two hours I They
had three people to rub him, and five hot-water
bottles before they could restore animation.'


There, Elsie ! ' said Blanche, who had
been listening ; ' 1 am sure you will not
insist upon Douglas's soul being immortal
after that.'

What is your opinion, Blanche V asked
Lionel. ' Let us have an exposition of your
views. We are all attention.'

I ?' said Blanche. ' I am sure my soul is
immortal ; I do not answer for everybody's.
I believe that people who cultivate very
ignoble affinities, you know, are likely to
be ultimately annihilated ;' and she looked
severely at Hargrave, who was tranquilly
reading a yellow novel, and apparently took
no interest in the discussion.

We may find indications of an immortal

spirit said Heathfield thoughtfully, ' if we
examine our own inner consciousness ; and I
think it would be impious to deny that there
is a Divine spark, a germ of immortality, in
every nature, however debased.'

You are right, Basil,' said Lady Eleanor ;
of course there is ; and I consider that this
conversation is, as you say, impious. Anyone
would suppose we were all heathens.
We ought to read the lessons for the day
and a sermon  Frederick ! why don't you
read us a sermon ?'

Ahem  certainly,' replied Mr. Fitzgerald,
without looking up from his paper.

Constance leaned back in her chair and
took up her smelling-bottle ; Heathfield and
Charley Hargrave straightened their legs and
solemnised their countenances ; but Lionel
made haste to change the subject. 'We
must go to church at Loch Voiraa next Sunday,'
he said ; ' I should like to show you my
improvements.'

Lionel had begun by stirring up the
heritor to put a new roof upon the church,

and contributing largely himself for this purpose.
This done, it was soon discovered
that the walls needed painting, that the pews
were worm-eaten, and that the windows were
very inconvenient. The old minister, Mr.
M'Phail, being of a liberal turn of mind, had
no objection to improvements or even innovations
; he saw no approach to ' Papistry '
in the stained window which was soon after
introduced, nor even in the harmonium which
was to supersede the worthy old precentor,
whose voice was beginning to give way ; and he
was grateful to those of his congregation who
interested themselves in the ' improvement of
the psalmody ' and the training of the choir.

Lionel, who took no small credit to himself
for these improvements, seconded his
mother readily enough when, the next Sunday
morning, she intimated her intention of
compelling her guests to attend public worship
at Loch Voiraa.

Some of you must walk to church,'
said Lady Eleanor, looking round, ' but
the carriage will hold five if necessary.'

VOL. III. L

I would rather walk,' said Elsie.

And I do not think I shall go at all,' said
Constance.

Not go to church this beautiful day, Constance
! ' said Lionel.

Please say kirk, Lionel ; it does sound
so schismatical to talk of a Presbyterian
Church. And I don't feel sure it is right
to go.'

But, Constance, *' kirk " is every bit as
good a word as 'church"' said Elsie, bristling
up in defence of her native tongue, * and
means exactly the same thing.*

And to say it is not right to go is positively
absurd,' said Lady Eleanor, 'and sets
a very bad example to the lower classes.
When people come to Scotland they must
do as the Ro  as others do. We cannot
expect to have everything.'

For my part,' said Blanche, ' I should
make a point of attending the church of the
country, whatever it might be. If I were in
the East, I would worship in a mosque with
pleasure.'

'You could not,' said Lionel, 'women are
not allowed in mosques.'

The Mahometan,' observed Charley
Hargrave, * deny that women have souls, you
must remember.'

Then theirs is a most erroneous faith,'
said Blanche, 'and I would not go into their
mosques if they paid me for it. Elsie, if you
are going to walk, I will walk with you
regular exercise, you know,' she added
in an undertone as they left the room
together.'

The two girls took a considerable time to
arrange their Sunday bonnets to their satisfaction,
and when they came downstairs,
found only Lionel and Charley Hargrave
waiting for them, the punctual Heathfield
having walked on. Charley and Blanche
went on in front, and Lionel stopped a
moment to survey Elsie approvingly.

You have put on your black dress to-day ;
I think I like it better than the white one ;
and how Sunday-like you look in that little
bonnet ! I think I should know by your face

what day it was. Where do you get that
expression, Elsie ? '

'It is a Paris bonnet,' said Elsie hastily,
'perhaps that gives it. I can't compliment
you on your Sunday appearance, Lionel'

Lionel's billycock hat was pushed back off
his forehead, and he was swinging a little
cane. 'You ought to have walked with
Heathfield,' he replied, 'there is a pious
young man for you! Tall hat, kid gloves,
and umbrella complete. Heathfield would
be a good fellow,' he added, ' if he was not
such an awful prig.'

He 2> a good fellow,' said Elsie.

They talked of many things as they
walked along, Elsie trying to steer clear of
dangerous subjects, and establish a pleasant
brotherly-and-sisterly footing between them,
in which she began to think she had succeeded
admirably. Lionel talked about his
plans for the future, and told her he had
some thoughts of letting Ardvoira and going
away for a few years. A friend of his, who
had settled in New Zealand, had asked him

to go out there and see the country ; and it
would be a good idea, he thought, to buy
land there and set up a horse farm.

There was an affected carelessness in
Lionel's manner when he told her this which
did not escape Elsie, and she resolved to be
on her guard.

Do you approve of this plan ? ' he said,
suddenly turning and looking at her.

Oh, Lionel, I should like you to travel,
and to see places and people ; I think it is
the best thing you could do. But to go to
New Zealand  remember your mother has
no one but you. And then a horse farm ! I
never heard of a horse farm before  people
in New Zealand have sheep farms, don't
they ? '

And why should / have a sheep farm ? '
said Lionel in an offended tone. ' I suppose
I may keep horses instead if I like  I understand
them, I don't understand sheep  why,
Elsie, you look quite shocked! Is a sheep a
more godly or virtuous animal than a horse,
may I ask ? But '  he went on, suddenly

laying aside his half-scornful tone as he saw
her looking vexed  ' if you tell me not to go,
Elsie, there is an end of it. I don't want to
go, goodness knows ! and you could keep me
here by one word

I don't want to keep you here, Lionel,'
said Elsie, in her most matter-of-fact
manner, ' because I think travelling would bean
excellent thing  it is only New Zealand
and horse farming that I do not think advisable.'


You would have me travel without an
object then ? anything to get me out of your
sight, in short.'

Elsie made no answer, and they walked
on a little way in silence, till, as they drew
near the church and heard voices in the
distance, Lionel felt that he could not afford
to indulge in bad temper just then.

Elsie, say something  I did not mean
that, you know.'

She turned her sweet face towards him,
smiling. * No, don't let us quarrel just as weare
going to church  let it be peace, Lionel.'

Lionel took her hand and held it as long
as he dared, for in another few minutes they
came in sight of their party, as well as the
two gentlemen from the lodge, who, seated
on the low wall of the churchyard, were
awaiting the conclusion of the Gaelic service.
Blanche had also with some difficulty hoisted
herself upon the wall, and sat there looking
rather dejected and very tired.

Now, Miss Mortimer,' said Major James,
when they had greeted the new - comers,
have you no piece of information for us ?
Here we are all waiting to be improved  a
few remarks upon these gravestones, now,
would oblige the company.'

Oh, don't ask me to preach you a sermon,'
said Blanche ; ' we shall have quite enough of
that presently. Who is going to hold forth
to-day ? '

A man of the name of Duff, from aberdeenshire,'
said Mr. Fairlie ; 'he seems likely
to be the successful candidate. You know
they are appointing an assistant and successor
to old M'Phail.'

'Well, I hope they won't appoint this
man,' said Lionel ; 'I've heard him, and I
never want to hear him again. Ah ! there is
the Glen Torran waggonette,' and he went
forward to open the door for Mrs. Carmichael,
who just then drove up with her
two little grandsons. The Ardvoira carriage
next appeared, Mr. Fitzgerald and his wife
being its only occupants ; and now the Gaelic
worshippers began to issue forth, while the
cracked bell announced that the English
service was shortly to begin.

Would Constance not come after all ? '
asked Elsie as she joined Lady Eleanor.

No, she made an excuse about Douglas
having a headache, and said she was going
to sit with him,' was the reply; 'but they
may do as they please, / do not care whether
they come or not.'

The jangling bell, whose sound was rendered
yet more excruciating by the creaking
of the wire by which it was pulled, now
ceased, to the great relief of all present, and
they proceeded to mount the winding stone

Stairs which led to their respective seats in
the gallery. The Ardvoira pew was the
largest, that property being the most extensive
in the parish ; it was the front seat in
the middle gallery directly facing the pulpit.
The right-hand gallery belonged to Glen
Torran, and the left to Loch Voiraa. The
pew was fitted up with large old-fashioned
chairs with wooden backs and arms, and had
lately been furnished with hassocks ; the desk
in front was hung with crimson cloth. The
pulpit had been left as it was, and had a
heavy wooden canopy, but the roof of the
church had been lined with dark wood, and
ornamented with rafters, and the walls, which
had formerly been whitewashed, were now
painted a dull brick - red. The stained
window, which for some weeks had been
the wonder of the neighbourhood, some of
the congregation regarding it with admiration,
others with disapproval, had been put
up by old Mrs. Macdonald to the memory of
her husband. It represented Abraham about
to offer up his son Isaac in sacrifice ; the

altar occupied the centre of the window, atone
side stood Abraham with uplifted knife,
at the other side was a ram of ferocious
appearance, which to those uninstructed in
the Scripture narrative would seem about to
butt the patriarch, the thicket in which it was
caught by the horns being in a manner left to
the imagination.

Many eyes were turned to the Ardvoira
pew as Lady Eleanor took her place. She
always walked in first and occupied the end
seat, a position she was wont to complain of,
because if I should turn faint '  she would
say  ' than which nothing could be more
likely, how is one to get out ? ' Yet she
never accepted the well-meant offers of her
friends to change seats with her, preferring to
fortify herself with a fan and a bottle of
strong smelling-salts. Next to Lady Eleanor
sat Blanche, then Elsie ; next to her Mr.
Fitzgerald, armed with plaid and air-cushion,
Heathfield and Charles Hargrave ; while in
the opposite corner, several chairs off, Lionel
sat alone. He had a fancy for that far

corner, observing that he liked to have plenty
of room for his legs.

And now the minister ascended the pulpit
stairs and was shut in by the beadle. Mr.
Duff was fair, florid, and rather stout, with a
good - humoured, but not very intellectual
countenance ; his voice was good, but his
delivery somewhat pompous.

Let us begin the public worship of God
by singing to His praise part of the eighty-fourth
Psalm. To the tune of Ballerma.'

He slowly read it over, and the congregation
rose ; for the custom of standing
to sing, and kneeling to pray, had lately
been introduced at Loch Voiraa church. The
familiar words, and something in the plaintive
sweetness of the tune, sent a thrill to
Elsie's heart.

How lovely is thy dwelling-place,

O Lord of hosts, to me !
The tabernacles of thy grace

How pleasant, Lord, they be !
My thirsty soul longs vehemently,

Yea faints, thy courts to see :
My very heart and flesh cry out,

O living God, for thee.'

The psalm was a favourite of hers, and
she remembered the last time (how long
ago it seemed!) that she had heard it in
the parish church of St. Ethernans.

Blanche was silent during the first verse,
but surely she too liked the music, or she
would not have joined in so vigorously with
her strong contralto, while Lionel from his
distant corner sent forth his deep bass notes
with evident satisfaction.

Then followed the long extempore prayer,
appointed by the Church of Scotland in her
dread of a written liturgy, but of which each
minister has his own particular form of words,
as familiar to his hearers as though they held
the prayer-book in their hands. First came
the ascription of praise to Almighty God,
dwelling on high above all heavens, amidst
light unapproachable, inaccessible, yet holding
in His hands the life of every created
thing. Then the confession of our own low
and lost estate, the utter abjectness of which
was particularly insisted upon by this divine.
We were worms of the dust, cumbered of

the ground ; our spiritual nature was full of
wounds and bruises and putrefying sores ;
we might call corruption mother and the
worm our sister; we had rolled sin like a
sweet morsel under our tongue, and had
drunk iniquity like water. Could we realise
the full extent of our vileness we should
lay our hands upon our mouths, and our
mouths in the dust, crying, ' Unclean, unclean.'


He next dwelt at some length upon the
scheme of salvation,' devised by the Almighty
for our redemption from the slavery
of Satan and the corruptions of our own
hearts. Then a thanksgiving that this congregation
had not been brought up in Popery
or infidelity, but had their birth in this
favoured Protestant land, which was illuminated
by the pure light of the Gospel
teaching. A petition that they might not
be deemed unworthy of these high privileges,
nor be led to engage in the services
of the sanctuary in a spirit of carnality and
formality, but that, putting the shoes from

off their feet, they might hear the Word
with reverence and godly fear, and that
the preaching of the same might be good
to the use of edifying, and might minister
grace unto the hearers, closed the exercise ;
which was followed by the reading of a
chapter from the Old and another from the
New Testament. After that a hymn and
a short prayer ; then came the sermon.

You will find the subject of the following
remarks,' said the preacher, 'in the fifty -
fifth Psalm, sixth and following verses : " Oh
that I had wings like a dove ! for then would
I fly away, and be at rest. Lo, then would I
wander far off, and remain in the wilderness.
I would hasten my escape from the windy
storm and tempest'"

The occupants of the Ardvoira pew had
listened to the opening services with various
feelings. Lady Eleanor, who, it is to be
feared, was a little apt to be bored by any
church service, even the most ornate, but
who made a duty of going to church, and
behaving properly when there, settled herself

back in her chair with an air of edifying
resignation. Blanche had very soon decided
in her own mind that the minister was not
worth listening to, and did not listen accordingly.
Lionel frowned, he did not like this
style, and resolved to give his vote against
the election. Elsie, who had been stirred
and moved by the singing, was disappointed ;
she hoped a little from the text, which was
rather an unusual one for a sermon, and
which found an echo in her own soul ; but
what views could that comfortable, well-fed
unimaginative-looking pastor have about it ?
They proved to have at least the merit of
originality, and he began by gently blaming
the Psalmist for his imprudent and ill-considered
desire.

First he ' would direct his hearers' attention
to the thing wished for ; the instruments
by which David desired to accomplish his
flight. Wings have been, by the Divine
Providence, denied to man. There have
been those who, in various ages of the world,
have rashly attempted to soar upon pinions

of their own construction, and falling headlong,
have reaped, in contusions and broken
limbs, the consequences of their presumptuous
act. In these attempts we may recognise
a fitting type of those who, trusting
in their own strength, make to themselves
refuges of lies, and put confidence in vain
fables. Let us seek to cast from us all the
appliances of merely human wisdom, not
trusting in an arm of flesh, still less in a
wing of feathers.

But the aspiration of the Psalmist was
confined to words: "Oh that I had wings
like a dove!" Nor, excepting for this, did
he suffer any murmur of discontent to pass
his lips. How many men in his circumstances
would have sought to engage in
unwarrantable strife and bloodshed, or at
the least have given utterance to unseemly
imprecations ! Such, however, is not the
language of our text. The Psalmist merely
exclaims, " Oh that I had wings ! " Had
that rash desire been granted him  had
David been endowed with the wings of a

dove, and been enabled, by their assistance,
to wing his flight into the wilderness  what
the better would he have been ? Where, we
may well ask, would have been the satisfaction
of that ?'

The preacher proceeded, in the second
place, to consider the wilderness or desert
mentioned in the text. 'Commentators,' he
observed, ' are not agreed as to the exact
geographical position of the region to which
the Kino of Israel desired to effect a retreat.
Some writers suppose it to have been the
desert of Sahara ; others contend that the
Psalmist, unacquainted as he probably was
with the interior of Africa, would rather
have sought refuge in the stony districts of
Arabia, or in the wilderness of Sinai, in
which his own forefathers had wandered for
forty years.' These surmises, however, the
minister allowed, were immaterial, and he
passed on to describe a wilderness as 'an
arid waste of sand, probably destitute of
vegetation, resounding with the cries of
savage beasts, and abounding with serpents

VOL. III. M

and scorpions of the most venomous description.
Exposed to the attacks of these
ravenous creatures, and without the means
of supporting Hfe, we cannot be led to suppose
that David would have been truly
happy. Still, ' the minister argued, ' if the
circumstances in which the Psalmist was
placed were attentively considered, it would
be found that his wish to escape into the
wilderness was not so ill-judged as it at first
sight might appear to be. Absalom from
whose rebellious and unfilial conduct David
desired to escape, was equally to be dreaded
with the lion or the unicorn of the desert ;
while the treacherous and insidious counsels
of Ahithophel contained poison not less
deadly than the fangs of the cockatrice or
adder.'

He then branched off into an account of
the revolt of Absalom, which occupied a considerable
time, and which he satisfactorily
proved to have been typical of most of the
occurrences recorded in the New Testament,
as well as applicable to the state of our own

hearts at the present day. Returning to the
subject of his text, the preacher remarked in
conclusion :  ' First, how wrong it is to indulge
in unreasonable desires, or to seek
another sphere than that in which we have
been placed by Providence ; and secondly,
that, the world having been appointed to our
first parents as a place of toil, we ought to
desire rather to labour in the sweat of our
brow '  here the minister wiped his forehead
'than idly to seek repose.' He then
summed up his discourse by observing that
'we must beware of permitting ourselves
to form harsh judgments of the conduct of
others ; seeing that even the Psalmist's desire
for the wings of a dove, though vain and
futile, might, if carefully sifted, be found to
contain some grains of that solid wisdom and
judgment with which we should all earnestly
seek to be endued.'

The sermon ended, the minister gave out
an anthem, which was sung but indifferently,
the choir not having had much practice in
this kind of sacred music. It was followed

by the long and comprehensive intercessory-prayer.
The minister prayed for the Queen :
that her horn might be exalted as the horn
of an unicorn ; that she might be anointed
with fresh oil ; that her crown might flourish
upon her head, and that the shadow thereof
might fill the land. For the Prince and
Princess of Wales, and all the other members
of the Royal House. For all those
who are placed in authority under the
Queen, and over us : that they might be a
terror to evil-doers and a praise and protection
to such as do well. For the minister
of this parish : that he might be blessed in
his sitting down and in his rising up ; that
he might renew his strength like an eagle ;
that his feet might become like hinds' feet ;
and that he might long be spared to come in
and to go out before this people. For those
in the eldership ; for the poor and needy ;
for those in comfortable circumstances ; for
the rich, who should remember that to whom
much is given, of them the more shall justly
be required. For the heathen : that the

Gospel might be preached in all lands, and
might cover the earth as the waters cover
the channel of the deep. For the ancient
people of Israel : that when the fulness of
the nations is brought in, they might lift up
a standard in the midst of them. For the
sick and afflicted : that they might have the
oil of joy for mourning, the garment of
praise for the spirit of heaviness. For those
stretched upon beds of languishing : that
they should be caused to rejoice greatly, and
to sing aloud upon their beds ; and for all
those whom the restraints of Providence
that day kept absent from the gates of
Zion. Finally, for the assembled congregation
: that a blessing might rest upon the
services in which they had that day been
engaged ; that they might prove to them a
foretaste of the joys they should hereafter
experience ; that they might be assisted in
singing the concluding hymn of praise, dismissed
with the Divine blessing, and conducted
in safety to their respective places of
abode.

To conclude the service, the second Paraphrase
was sung, to the tune of Salzburg.

Those who had come to church with any
devout feelings had mostly, by this time,
sunk into a state of apathy. This was partly
Elsie's case ; she had come oppressed and
anxious, hoping vaguely for something which
might direct and comfort her, or at any rate
raise her thoughts to a higher level ; and
though she saw at once that the preacher
was formal and commonplace, she yet listened
eagerly for some little word of cheering,
some suggestion of the hoped-for rest.
When the minister complacently informed
his hearers that we were not idly to seek
repose, Elsie did not, like Blanche, feel
tempted to smile. She felt so tired, she
bent her head, and could almost have cried
with disappointment. The beautiful closing
paraphrase was more soothing, and helped
to quiet her irritated nerves. She stood
merely listening, until near the end, then
suddenly raising her head, she joined in with
a good heart at the words,

O spread Thy cov'ring wings around,
Till all our wand'rings cease,
And at our Father's lov'd abode
Our souls arrive in peace.'

As they came out of church, Elsie felt
her hand warmly grasped by Mrs. Carmichael,
who was close behind. ' My dear,
now see that you drive home, like a sensible
girl,' said that lady. ' These long trails will
just be the death of you.' Then, in a lowered
tone, ' Heard ye ever such a rigmarole
of nonsense ? Now James will be ill-pleased
at me if I don't ask the minister to dinner ;
I wish he would come to church himself, and
he would maybe not be so keen to have the
minister asked. But I must go, or I'll not
catch him, stupid ass!'

Blanche, shall we drive home ? ' said
Elsie.

Certainly, drive home,' said Lady Eleanor,
overhearing her. ' Get in at once, both of
you. Well, what did you think of the service
?'

The singing is wonderfully good for a

country church,' said Blanche. 'But, mercy
upon us ! what rubbish the man did talk !
Elsie, what do you say ?'

Yes,' said Elsie, sighing. ' I don't suppose
there is any harm in him, but he is a
thoroughly stupid man, and he will never
improve, he is so self-satisfied. There are
many such  but I hope they will not elect
him.'

'Oh yes, they will,' said Blanche. *A
man like that is sure to be a Conservative ;
he is so pleased with everything as it is, and
you will see Lionel will pine to have him.'

Well, why not ? ' said Lady Eleanor.
A good, respectable, pious creature, I have
no doubt.'

I am glad Constance did not come,' said
Blanche. * She would have been shocked,
and that is so tiresome.'

She would have been shocked at the
wrong thing,' said Elsie, ' at his accent and
manner, and way of conducting the service,
which is not the thing which is of consequence.'


'As to the sermon,' said Blanche, 'it is,
after all, not greater nonsense than I have
often heard from the pulpit in England. I
think sermons are a mistake altogether ; at
least, they always rouse my worst feelings.'

You ought to be ashamed of yourself,
then, Blanche,' said Lady Eleanor severely,
and I wonder that you girls can permit
yourselves to talk on sacred subjects with so
little sense of  of how you ought to talk.
It does not seem to me that you have any
principle, either of you.'

Perhaps not I, Aunt Eleanor, but don't
scold Elsie ; she is a perfect mass of principle.'

I cannot, for my part, see that she is a
mass of anything,' said Lady Eleanor ; ' pray
do not let me hear such expressions.'

'Young ladies,' observed Mr. Fitzgerald,
are fond of indulging in exaggerated language.'


I have not heard your opinion of the
sermon,' said Blanche, regarding her uncle
and aunt with a look of innocent inquiry.

But Lady Eleanor, who had not listened

to one word of the discourse, declined to
commit herself in any way, and declared that
she would have no more discussion upon the
subject, since It was conducted in such an
unbecoming spirit.

I could not see, for blinding tears,
The glories of the west ;
A heavenly music filled mine ears,
A heavenly peace my breast.
Come unto Me  come unto Me,
All ye that labour, unto Me,
Ye heavy laden, come to Me,
And I will give you rest." '

It was the custom at Ardvoira on Sunday to
have tea in the drawing-room instead of in
the library, and at an earlier hour, as the
party had necessarily partaken of a light and
early luncheon, to suit the hour of service.

Lionel did not appear until tea-time, and
came in at last, saying, ' I have been making
inquiries about the election, and I do not
think we are likely to have Mr. Duff The
old people object to him, as they cannot
understand his Gaelic  he is a Lowlander
born, of course. I shall try and get in Macdougall,

that little man we heard two Sundays
ago.'

Oh yes, Lionel,' said Elsie eagerly, ' I

liked that little man very much ' She

stopped abruptly, wishing she had not spoken,
as she caught sight of Lionel's look of pleasure
at the personal interest she seemed to
take in the parish.

Blanche, who had left the room a few
minutes before, now reappeared in her walking
things.

'Why, Blanche,' said Elsie, 'I thought
you were tired. Are you going for another
walk?'

To be sure,' answered Blanche. ' Remember
that we must not " idly seek repose."
I wonder if Mr. Duff walks for the benefit
of his figure ; he would if he were wise.'

*We had better all go for a walk,' said
Lady Eleanor rising, 'and Blanche, I wish
you would not be so flippant.'

Elsie did not feel inclined to go out with
the others. The exertions of the last few
days had really tired her, and she felt that

she would be glad of a lite quiet ; so,
taking a book, she withdrew to the library,
and seated herself by the west window.

She had not been long there when Lionel
came in. He took a turn through the room,
as if half undecided, then went to the piano
and began to play. Elsie was occupied
with her own thoughts, and did not at first
observe the restlessness expressed in his
whole manner. A volume of Newman's
sermons lay upon her knee, but she was
not reading ; her clasped hands rested on
the open book, and her sad eyes were fixed
upon the distant peaks of Jura, which looked
faint and ghostlike in the soft autumnal light.

Lionel sat and played, pausing from time
to time. From his seat at the piano he
could just see the outline of her cheek, and
her shining plaits of hair ; her face was
turned from him, and her thoughts were
far away. He felt that he scarcely dared
to speak to her ; yet he must give some
expression to the passionate yearning love
which filled his soul, and he played Schumann's

' Libelled.' Elsie turned her head,
and listened with a sort of wonder on her
face ; she had never heard him play so
beautifully. Suddenly he broke into a strain
so loud and wild and thrilling that it startled
her entirely out of her dream, and filled her
with a vague fear. It was Liszt's transcription
of the ' Erlkonig ' ; Elsie knew it welland
the words almost seemed to haunt her.
She rose, and, drawn by a power she could
not resist, went and stood nearer to the
piano. Lionel's face, lit up as it was with
excitement, was so beautiful as he played,
that she could not turn away her gaze from
it ; his dark eyes were filled with a strange
fire. As she drew near he stopped abruptly
and came towards her ; something in his
look frightened her, and she half put out
her trembling hand to keep him back.

'Do not stop, Lionel,' she said, 'go on
playing, but not that  something softer.
Play ''Auf dem Masser zu singer," or
that 'amends," by Raff, which you played
the other night.'

No, Elsie, I cannot ; there is something
I must say to you.'

'What have you to say to me, Lionel?'
said Elsie sternly, her very fear giving hera
desperate courage.

She stood before him, tall and pale, looking
straight into his eyes as if to quench the
passionate fire in them with the grave proud
calmness of her own.

Is it about New Zealand  that you will
give up that foolish plan? O Lionel!' and
her tone changed to pleading  'say it is
that you have come to tell me.'

It is not that,' said Lionel; 'listen  no,
Elsie, you shall listen to me ; I have kept
silence for years, and now I must speak.
You know what I have got to say ; you
have known it all along. You know that I
have loved you from the first day I saw you.
Tell me how much longer I must wait. It
must be that you will care for me some time.'

Never, never ! ' cried Elsie, bursting
into tears. ' Oh, Lionel, my boy, I do
care for you, but not  not like that.'

It is a sin,' said Lionel, beginning to
stride about the room in his anger. ' Why
will you waste your love upon the dead,
who neither know nor care, when there is
a living '

Elsie had turned from him, and covered
her face.

I have hurt you,' said Lionel, ' I am a
brute beast. I will go away and never
annoy you any more. Say one word tome,
Elsie, before I go.'

Lionel,' said Elsie, calming herself, and
lifting her head, ' I want you to understand.
Whether the dead know about us or not'
her voice trembled, but she controlled
herself by an effort  'we cannot tell  very
likely not. But I gave myself to David 
not for this life only, but for ever, and I
will not change or be untrue to him because
he is dead. I will love you, dear
Lionel, like a sister  more than any sister,
but you must never speak to me again like
this.'

And is that your last word to me then,'

said Lionel somewhat bitterly, ' after I have
waited years for a little hope ? Elsie, your
heart must be like a piece of stone ! '

I have only been a misery to you,' said
Elsie, her voice failing again, 'but I did
not mean it. I ought never to have come
to this place.'

Lionel walked to the window, and stood
there looking out, then he came back to her.

I am going,' he said ; ' I will vex you
no more, Elsie. But do you not think that
in time  a long time '

Elsie shook her head. ' I would if I
could,' she sobbed, and stretched out her
hands to him. ' Oh, dear Lionel ! I would
if I could.'

He took her hands gently In his, stooped
down and kissed her, and was gone ; and
Elsie, laying her head on the chair, cried
bitterly and without restraint.

She did not know how long she had
crouched there, when voices and steps on
the gravel outside warned her that the
walking party had returned. She started

VOL. III. N

up, and mechanically pushing back her
ruffled hair, withdrew into the shadow, and
waited until the steps had passed the library
door, then darted into the passage. She
dared not go to her room for fear of meeting
Blanche, the open air was her only refuge ;
so putting on a little gray cap which lay
in the entrance-hall (it happened to be
Lionel's), she opened the door softly, and
fled like a hunted hare towards the shore.

That she must get away, leave Ardvoira
at once, was her one thought  yet whither
could she go } Her father forbade her to
come to Rossiee ; Aunt Grizel in her feeble
state was scarcely fit to receive a sudden
visitor ; and she was most unwilling to
return to England without visiting her
home.

These thoughts passed quickly through
her mind as she hurried towards the sea,
not caring where she went if only she
could leave some of her pain behind, while
strangely the words she had heard in
church rang in her ears and mingled with

her thoughts. ' Oh that I had wings Hke
a dove ! for then would I fly away and beat
rest. Lo, then would I wander far off,
and remain in the wilderness. I would
hasten my escape from the windy storm
and tempest.'

Elsie spoke the last words aloud ; she
had by this time reached the rocks, whose
sharp black points stretched out far into
the water, for the tide was going out. She
never paused to take breath, but hastened
on, springing from one rock, slippery with
sea-weed, to another, till she saw that the
pools at her feet were crimson, and the
whole sky and sea and land were lighted
up with the glory of the sunset. Then she
stopped and looked out towards the west.
The sun was sinking behind the distant
islands, and the sky above was crimson,
speckled with purple clouds. She stood
and gazed until the sun's last spark had
gone down behind the sharp rocky hills of
Jura, and a fiery orange glow had come
into its place, giving a new splendour to

the sky. Before the solemn grandeur of
the sunset Elsie lost sight for the moment
of her trouble ; it came before her like a
reproof for making so much of her own
petty griefs ; and life and its sorrows seemed
like shadows, to vanish in the light of the
world to come. She sat down upon the
rock and did not stir till the crimson overhead
had faded into orange, and the orange
into a tender green, while the fiery light in
the west had deepened into a dull red glow,
like the heart of a dying fire. Then a
moaning sound was heard far out at sea,
for heavy gray clouds came driving up,
and a chill wind began to blow.

Elsie shivered, and rose with difficulty,
for her limbs were cramped, but a sense
of peace and a new courage had come back
to her heart. She began to make her way
back to the house, thinking over what had
happened and what would be best to do.
That she must leave Ardvoira, and at once,
was certain ; she would even, perhaps, no
longer be welcome there, for not only had

she lost Lionel for the present, as a friend
and companion, but had, too probably,
hopelessly estranged Lady Eleanor's affection.
It was impossible, Elsie knew, to
keep her in ignorance of what had occurred,
and she would almost certainly be deeply
hurt and indignant on her boy's account.

Elsie resolved to write a note asking her
Aunt Grizel to receive her the next night (a
telegram, she knew, would startle the old
lady as much as a sudden arrival), and find
some means of getting it despatched early
the following morning ; and she herself would
start for St. Ethernans later in the day,
although she would thus have to spend the
night somewhere e7i route.

It was very dark when she reached the
house ; she had to feel for the door-handle,
which her chilled hands could scarcely turn.
She went in, and toiled wearily upstairs to
her own room, where a bright fire was burning.
A letter on the mantelpiece caught her
eye ; she took it up, a little surprised, as
letters were not usually received at Ardvoira

on Sunday. It was addressed in Euphemia's
straggling handwriting, and ran as follows : 

Rossi, September T,oih,

'Dear Elsie  I was not able to send
Word sooner about little Peter in answer to
your kind Inquiry for we have been that
taken up owing to little Allan having likewise
got the fever too. The Doctor said to get a
Nurse to them and we got one from Edinburgh
and thought her a Superior Person but
yesterday the Captain found her in that State
he just took and sent her away Immediate
and the Doctor said to get another but the
Captain will not for he thinks they are all
likely given to their Bottle. My hands are
terribly full for Agnes cannot leave Granny
she is now entirely Bedrid and my dear Elsie
if you would come and help me with the little
Boys I would be very Thankful and the
Captain I have not told him but he would
not say a Word once you are in the House
for he is extraordinary taken up with you
and I would not ask you to leave your Grand

Friends but that you said you would like to
come to Rossiee and what will I do if little
Allan is taken from me for he is far worse
with the Complaint than Peter. Hoping you
are quite well  I remain yours affectionately,

E. Ross.'

Here was an end to all Elsie's difficulties
at once.

Poor Euphemia ! poor little boys ! Of
course she would go to Rossiee ; and she
began hastily to consider how soon she could
start on her journey. When the dressing-gong
sounded, and the housemaid entered
with the hot water, Elsie questioned her
eagerly.

Barbara, how did the letters come to-day?'

Please, ma'am, Channel Gillies was coming
from Portarnish, and he would call at the
post-office,' was the reply. Young John
Gillies was a grocer's apprentice in Port-varnish,
and occasionally paid his family a visit
on Sundays.

Oh, Barbara ! please say I cannot comedown

to dinner  I have had bad news from
home ; but you need not say that, Barbara,
just say I have a headache.'

Yes, ma'am,' said the girl in a subdued
and awestruck tone. * Please, ma'am, will
you be taking any dinner ?'

No, I will have a cup of coffee later.
And will you find out when the early steamer
for Oban passes, and come and tell me V

Yes, ma'am,' said Barbara again. Her
rosy face had lengthened considerably ; she
moved away softly, and shut the door after
her with the elaborate caution which she considered
that Elsie's grief-stricken appearance
demanded.

Elsie began to put together a few of the
things she would require for her journey.
Perhaps,' thought she, ' Lady Eleanor need
not, after all, be told about Lionel ; this call
is quite a sufficient reason for my leaving at
once. Shall I go and speak to her now ? '
and she glanced at herself in the glass. 'No!
I will wait till after dinner.'

Barbara by and by returned with some

coffee, and the information that the steamer
going to Oban might be expected to pass
Ardvoira Point between four and five in the
morning. She begged to know if she could
do anything for Elsie.

No, Barbara, thank you ; I am going
by the steamer, as my little brother is very
ill, but I must speak to Lady Eleanor first.'

It is a piety,' said Barbara sympathetically
; adding with indignation, * Chon Gillies
was thinking he was very clever bringing the
post letters on the Sabbath ; but he might
have let them able whatever if he was to
bring the pad news.'

Elsie had nearly finished her preparations,
and was thinking how she could bring about
an interview with her hostess, when a tap
was heard at the door, and Lady Eleanor
entered hastily.

Elsie, what is all this, and what has become
of Li ' she stopped as her eye fell

upon Elsie's open trunk.

'Oh! Lady Eleanor, I have heard from
Euphemia  my little brothers are both ill,

and they need me at home. I was coming
to tell you, only '

'At home ?' repeated Lady Eleanor  'at
Rossle ? Absurd ! I will not hear of it.
But pray where is Lionel gone ? for that is
what I came to ask you.'

Lionel ! ' exclaimed Elsie, seized with a
sudden terror, and putting her hand upon the
table for support  ' I  I don't know. Was
he not at dinner ? '

Lady Eleanor eyed her with great
astonishment, not unmixed with indignation.
Elsie,' she said, moving forward so as to
get a full view of the girl's face  ' I insist
upon knowing the meaning of this, Lionel
has gone to Portarnish, leaving no comprehensible
message, and I desire you to tell me
what has happened, as I see by your manner
that you know perfectly well. And what in
the world are you crying about, child ? '

Oh ! Lady Eleanor, I never dreamt of
Lionel going away  but he will come back 
you must send for him. I am the one who
should go, and you see I  I am just packing

v/i It is dreadful  it is not to be borne, that
Lionel should go away because of me.'

'Do try to talk like a rational being,
Elsie,' said Lady Eleanor impatiently.
Lionel has proposed to you, I imagine
well, what was your answer ? '

I cannot marry Lionel,' said Elsie in a
low voice ; ' he knows that. I am very, very
sorry that he should care about me in that
way.'

You refused him ? '

What else could I do ? ' said Elsie
despairingly.

There was a short pause.

'Well,' said Lady Eleanor with great and
marked coldness, ' I cannot insist on your
marrying my son. This is not what I
expected from you, or hoped, but you are
free to do as you like of course. I think it a
little odd, that is all ;' and she moved as if to
leave the room, then breaking into a sudden
sob, she cried out, ' You have driven away
my boy, and I shall never see him again.'

No, no, hush ! ' cried Elsie eagerly, ' do

not say such things. He will come back 
you must send for him  you must telegraph.
Where has he gone T

To Australia, I suppose, where he has
always threatened to go  to the farthest off
place he can find. He will not come back
for my sending, girl.'

He will, if you tell him I am not here.
Besides, he can't have gone to Australia
without his luggage,' said Elsie, practical
even in her excitement ; ' at any rate he can't
have gone far yet. How and when did he
go ? And what message did he leave } '

To this Lady Eleanor replied that she had
not seen him herself, but had been told that
about six o'clock, when the letters came from
Portarnish, Lionel, after receiving his, had
ordered the dogcart to be got ready, and his
portmanteau to be packed, and had started,
leaving a message with the servants that he
was going to sleep at the inn at Portarnish
that night, and take the early steamer to
Glasgow in the morning.

It was not without difficulty that Elsie

elicited this information, which somewhat
tranquillised her mind ; though she was still
nervously anxious that Lionel should be sent
for home.

Then, Lady Eleanor, perhaps he has had
some business letter, he may not have left on
my account. But telegraph to him  to the
house of his man of business, and say I am
gone to Rossiee. That will bring him back.'

But how can I let you go to Rossiee when
it is not safe ? No, Lionel will never come
back ; you have driven him away, and there
is an end of it.'

Listen, Lady Eleanor. In any case I
must go to Rossiee ; so, why not send the
telegram, which will certainly bring Lionel
back to you ? It is quite necessary that
I should go to help my stepmother. See!
here is her letter  let me read it to you.'

I can make no sense of it,' said Lady
Eleanor, interrupting her when she had read
a few sentences. ' I don't believe it is safe
to let you go  I don't know what you want
me to do  and what am I to say to Lionel ? '

Elsie took a sheet of paper from her
blotting book, and wrote : ' Come back at
once ; Elsie has been sent for home.'

There she said, 'will not that do for
the telegram ? Then my steamer will pass
Ardvoira Point between four and five in the
morning. May I have Duncan M'Intyre and
the boat to go out to her ? '

'You confuse me so,' said Lady Eleanor.
'Are you sure that this  ' holding out the
sheet of paper  ' will bring him back ?'

It will certainly bring him, or else a letter
from him,' replied Elsie confidently. 'And
about the boat ? '

You say your father wants you at home ?
I do not understand '

'Not my father'  hesitating  'my stepmother,
but '

Read me the letter,' said Lady Eleanor
very angrily.

Elsie did so.

I do not think I can let you go.'

Then you cannot send the telegram.'

They sat looking at each other for sometime

in silence ; then Elsie came and knelt
down beside her.

You see, dear Lady Eleanor, you must
let me go.'

And Lady Eleanor let her go.

O dream of joy ! is this indeed
The lighthouse top I see ?
Is this the hill ? is this the kirk ?
Is this mine own countrey ? '

Elsie left Ardvoira in the gray light of the
early morning, and after a long wait upon
the rocks for the expected steamer  so long
that she began to despair of reaching Oban
in time to catch her train  she at last got
safely on board. There was no clear sunrise,
but a dull red light in the eastern sky, which
was piled with heavy gray clouds above,
seemed to threaten stormy weather, while
a cold whistling wind blew from the southeast.
After a long journey and many changes,
she at last reached the well-known Cross-briggs
Junction, and took the coach for
Drumsheugh. The rain, which was only

threatening in the west coast, had come on
in good earnest here  heavy dashing rain
from the east, with fierce blasts of wind, and
Elsie was fain to content herself with an
inside place in the coach. It was four in
the afternoon when it drew up at the door of
the Ochil Arms, the principal inn in the village.
Elsie noticed with annoyance that it appeared
to be the scene of unusual excitement this
afternoon, for she had counted on a quiet
rest by the fire, and a cup of tea, before
encountering the short but stormy ferry. The
inn resounded with coarse voices, fiddling,
and stamping of feet.

'Is there anything going on here?' she
inquired of the coach driver as she paid his
fare.

Ou no,' replied the man ; ' it's the feeing
market in St. Ethernans the day, and a
wheen fowls come over here to hae a
dance.'

The feeing market,' thought Elsie ; 'how
unlucky!' She remembered that her father
would never let her go near St. Ethernans on

VOL. III. o

the occasion of this annual festival, which
was attended by farm servants of both sexes,
in order to be hired for the ensuing Martinmas
term, and at which it appeared to be de
rigueur that every one should be dead drunk.
*I shall never get a carriage in St. Ethernans,'
she thought, 'the people will be too tipsy,
and I do not think I could walk the three
miles in the rain. I will hire a dogcart or
something here, and drive across the moor
it will not take me any longer after all.'

Can I have a carriage to take me to
Rossiee at once ? ' she inquired of the landlady,
Mrs. Braid, a stout matron, whose
flushed face and dishevelled headgear showed
that she had been a sharer in all the excitement,
if not In the actual revelry of the
occasion.

'Rossiee?' said the woman. 'It's a lang
rod. Jock ! ' she shouted, addressing someone
in the kitchen  ' Can the teddy hae a
machine to gang to Rossiee ? '

Yas,' answered the Invisible Jock laconically.


Wa to the yard then, and get it yokit.'

Can I have a cup of tea ? ' asked Elsie, a
little doubtfully ; ' or is the parlour full ? '

Ou, there's just twa-three gentlemen in
there wi' their drap toddy. Gang inower to
the fire, mem, or I mask the tea. Maggie ! '
raising her voice, although the conversation
throughout had been conducted in a sufficiently
loud key  'Maggie! Here a teddy
seeking' tea. Deil's in the lassie, what's she
macklin' at ? ' as shouts of laughter issued
from some back region. ' My word ! but I'll
sort ye, ance I get a baud o' ye,' and she
departed in pursuit of her too mirthful handmaiden.


Elsie pushed open the parlour door, and
looked in ; but the confined air, the fumes of
whisky, and the loud, rather quarrelsome talk
of the ' twa-three,' or, more accurately, nine
or ten ' gentlemen ' therein assembled, caused
her to retreat quickly into the passage. She
sat down on the top of her box till the landlady
reappeared.

Mrs. Braid,' she said, ' I will not take

tea, thank you  I have changed my mind.
Do you think they are getting the carriage ?'

Jock ! ' shouted Mrs. Braid, * are ye no
wa' yet V She went away, and returned
after a long, but apparently fruitless argument
with Jock, who seemed to be half
asleep, to assure Elsie, if she would 'just
take a seat ' in the parlour, the ' machine '
would be forthcoming.

But Elsie was in no mood for patient
waiting. She rose, and went herself into
the inn-yard, where, to her great joy, she
recognised one of the ostler, a respectable-looking
lad, who had once been a stable-boy
at Rossiee. She went up to him and addressed
him by name, 'Andrew Wallace.'

The lad turned round quickly, and evidently
knew her at once ; but not deeming it
consistent with etiquette to appear surprised,
only touched his cap, saying respectfully, ' I
hope you're well, ma'am.'

Andrew,' said Elsie, 'could you drive me
over the moor to Rossiee ? I want to go
immediately.'

I'll do that, ma'am, replied Andrew with
alacrity. ' Will I get the dogcart ?'

'Yes, please, anything  as soon as you
can,' and Elsie returned to the inn, and
resumed her seat upon her box till the dogcart
came round.

It awakened considerable excitement in
the minds of the revellers, as well as in those
of the street boys ; and a crowd speedily
collected at the inn door to witness the
start, and make their comments thereupon.
'Sundry!' cried one. 'Eh! see at Sundry,
wa' to drive the teddy ! ' ' A  ay ! he's a
pawky ane !' ' Diana cows her ! ' ' Nae far
o'm ! wull ye gie's a ride agent ?' ' Come
down here, till I gie ye a smack in the
face ! '

This last invitation, of which, as it may be
supposed, Andrew did not hasten to avail
himself, was given by an individual of
peculiarly festive appearance, who reeled upto
the dogcart, and seemed to be under the
impression that he could climb into it backwards
; but Elsie and her box being now in

their places, Andrew drove off with all speed,
pursued by laughter, ' hurry,' and shouts of
derision from the assembled crowd.

Elsie's relief was so great that at first she
scarcely felt the rain dashing in her face, or
the gusts of wind, against which it was hopeless
to hold up an umbrella. She drew the
hood of her mackintosh over her Sunday
bonnet, which she had resumed at the outset
of her journey, partly because it was the first
which came to hand, partly from a vague
impression that it gave her a somewhat
venerable appearance, and that it was more
seemly to undertake a journey, with a view
of nursing the sick, in a bonnet than in a
hat. As they ascended the hill, and reached
the high and bleak moorland district, she
began to feel thoroughly chilled ; her cheeks
smarted with the cutting rain, and the cold
wind felt all the more piercing after the soft
air of the West Coast. The horse stumbled,
shook its head, and in spite of pretty frequent
applications of the whip, kept slackening
its pace. Andrew got out to walk up

the long steep hill, and Elsie, in spite of his
remonstrances, did the same.

Poor beast ! he is tired,' she said.
Andrew, be sure you give him a feed when
we get to Rossiee, but do not come into the
house yourself, for fear of spreading the
fever ; ask Mrs. Duncan at the farm to give
you your tea.'

At length the long drive came to an end,
and with a thrill of pleasure Elsie passed up
the well-known avenue and reached the door
of her home. Before she had time to enter,
the Laird himself appeared on the threshold ;
and as Elsie hurried up the steps to meet
him, he put out his arm with a wondering
look, as if to prevent her coming nearer.
'Elsie! what  what are you doing here .f'
he said hoarsely. But Elsie was not to be
repelled, she was too happy to be at home
again ; and, for the first time in her life, she
threw her arms round his neck. ' Papa ! '
she cried with a low laugh of pleasure  ' you
will not turn me away from your own door T

The Laird uttered a sort of grunt, but he

half returned his daughter's embrace, and
almost lifted her into the house.

You're  you're all wet,' he said, touching
her shoulder gently with his hand.

Papa, how is Allan ?'

Her father stared at her, and then turned
away.

No chance for him,' said he  ' no chance
for either of them. That doctor's a fool.'

But little Peter,' said Elsie trembling, ' I
thought he was much better ?'

Good Lord ! ' burst out the Laird, striking
his forehead violently ; ' what does it
matter what he dies of? he's always sick.
And you  you'll be the next one ! ' turning
fiercely on his daughter. 'What, in the
devil's name, brought you here ?'

Elsie noticed with pain how changed and
aged her father looked ; how the lines on his
face had deepened, and his limbs shrunk ; he
did not look half the size he used to be.
She did not mind his rough reception of her,
which was in truth rather affectionate than
otherwise, and he was full of concern for her

wet and cold condition. He took off her
wet cloak himself, and would not permit her
to go to Euphemia, who was in the sickroom,
but desired the maid to prepare some
food.

I will go to the kitchen fire,' said Elsie,
'and speak to Marjorie.' As she went
through the passage, the peculiar odour of the
disinfectants sickened her a little, and made
her realise more strongly the presence of
illness, perhaps of coming death.

Marjorie hurried to meet her, for the
news of Elsie's arrival had quickly spread
through the house, and welcomed her with
a trembling delight which she could hardly
find words to express, and of which Elsie
had scarcely believed the undemonstrative
Marjorie capable.

Eh ! Miss Elsie, my pair lamb ! sicca a
night to come hame, and you just creeping' !
Eh, lassie ! but I've wearied sir for ye,' and
Marjorie wiped her eyes. 'Jessie, woman!
put on a bit fire in the White room, and tak'
down the sheets to get aired. Crater, ye'll

be starving,' she added, turning to Elsie, and
hastening her preparations for a substantial
tea.

Oh, Marjorie ! the poor little boys ! '
said Elsie sorrowfully. ' Are they in great
danger ? '

Marjorie looked at her in slight surprise.
No the Peter one,' she said, turning a piece
of bread she was toasting upon her fork.
He's coming' on fine, Miss Elsie ; but he's
a weary bit thing, ye ken.'

But Allan ?' said Elsie breathlessly.

Ay, he's been awful' ill, but we're thinking'
he's then the turn ; the doctor was reel weel
pleased wi' him the day.'

'Well, I'll go upstairs,' said Elsie.

But Marjorie earnestly entreated her not
to go to Euphemia until she had eaten. ' It
might be your death,' she said.

Elsie consented, and having changed her
dress, went to sit with her father until
Euphemia came down.

It was quite true that little Allan had
taken the turn, ' as the nurses phrased it.

and was on the fair way to recovery. Peter,
too, was entirely convalescent, and able to
sit up in bed, in his little red flannel gown,
smiling, and hugging a black kitten, which
had been brought in for his amusement.
Elsie went to see the children, but was too
worn out that evening to be of any assistance
to her stepmother ; the next morning, however,
they shared the duties of the sickroom
together. Euphemia had no turn for nursing;
strange to say, it was her awkward sister
Agnes who had always attended upon the
aged grandmother ; and Euphemia, active
and housewifely as she was, was utterly
helpless in cases of illness. Marjorie therefore
had enjoyed the post of head-nurse upto
the time of Elsie's arrival, and had ordered
about her mistress in a way which was highly
satisfactory to herself.

On the following day Allan was pronounced
out of danger ; all went well ; and
Elsie, in spite of the aching limbs which her
wet drive and previous fatigues had given
her, felt light-hearted and happy, as she had

never thought to be again. Euphemia was
very grateful and affectionate ; she shed
many tears, and poured out to her stepdaughter
long histories of the children's illness
and of her own anxieties and fears.

Oh, Elsie ! it's been an awful time ! now
you've come we must hope the best, but I've
had like a warning not to rejoice too soon.
Hope the best and fear the worst, as Mr.
Souter always says  and oh ! he's a godly
man !'

How do you mean you have had a warning,
Euphemia ?' asked Elsie, cutting short
the praises of Mr. Souter, the Free Kirk
minister, which she foresaw Euphemia was
about to pour forth.

Oh, my dear, I thought that Allan would
maybe not take the fever at all, for he was
near a fortnight after Peter, and the doctor
he thought so too ; but oh, it's a dangerous
complaint! Peter he had it mildly, but
there's Angus Cameron lost two children,
and there's more cases about ; and here was
Allan just as ill as he could be. For three

nights that child was carried and he only
came to his right mind the day you came.
Me, I was near out of my judgment with
it all!'

I wish I had come sooner said Elsie,
but my father wrote so peremptorily '

'Ay would he!' broke in Euphemia excitedly
; ' he was that positive, he wouldn't
let me speak of sending for you ; he said he
wouldn't have you brought here to your
death, and used words about it ; but when
little Allan turned so ill, I thought he was
quieter like, and I just ventured ; for you
know he had parted with the nurse at his
own hand, and he wouldn't get another, and
'deed I don't know that she was much use,
for she just drank even on, and snored so
that nobody could get any sleep ; and so I
spoke to him at last, but he just raged on
me, so I took it upon myself, and you see
it's all for the best.'

I saw by your letter, ' said Elsie, ' that
you were dreadfully anxious about Allan, but
1 Delirious.

I think we may really hope that he is quite
out of danger now.'

Oh, my dear,' said Euphemia, lifting her
hands, ' the night I wrote to you I thought
he was gone! I didn't know what to do,
and I went for your father, and he thought
he was gone ; and oh ! I thought if Mr.
Souter was there to put up a prayer; but
when I named it to your father he used
words again, for he never will hear tell of
the minister in the house, and him such a
godly man. Eh ! dear, dear !' and Euphemia
sighed dismally.

In this manner did the afflicted mother
relieve her overburdened heart, and Elsie
listened to many tales of a like nature,
until the conversation was interrupted by
the Laird, who entered with the resolved
step of one who has business on hand.

I never heard such a chatterer as that
woman is,' he remarked, eyeing his spouse
grimly, but addressing no one in particular ;
she would talk your head off if you gave
her time. Elsie, go you and put on your

things ; I'm going to take you to St. Ether-dans
to see the old lady.'

Oh ! ' said Elsie, rising doubtfully, ' I
should like that, papa, if '

I'm sure I don't know,' said Euphemia
plaintively. * I daresay I'll manage ; but
there's Peter to get his dinner, and he likes
Elsie to feed him, and '

I tell you I won t have her kept in the
house, ' interrupted her husband. ' What's
the use of you if you can't feed your own
children ? Elsie, the dogcart will be round
in five minutes  if you don't want to come
you can stay at home,' and the Laird, rather
offended, strode off, without waiting for an
answer.

In another quarter of an hour Elsie was
ready, and waiting in the hall ; but neither
her father nor his dogcart had as yet made
their appearance. In course of time, however,
the dogcart came round ; and the
Laird, having ascertained, by putting his
head out of his room and feigning to look
for his boots behind the door, that his

daughter was ready, and appeared willing
and desirous to accompany him, at last
emerged, in high good-humour, and more
carefully dressed than usual.

It was a brilliant autumn day, with justa
tinge of sharpness in the air to make it
clear. Elsie's spirits, which had been a
little depressed by Euphemia, rose as she
sprang into the seat beside her father ; and
they drove off at a good pace.

'How nice everything looks!' she cried.
Oh, papa ! you have put up a wire fence
it is a great improvement. And this is
a new horse.'

New !' said the Laird. ' I've had him
two years.'

And I have been away five.'

'You're very fine,' observed the Laird
suddenly, looking at his daughter with some
complacency, and alluding to the neatly
fitting brown suit which she wore.

Oh, this is nothing, papa, ' said Elsie
gaily. ' You have no idea what a smart
and fashionable person I have become ; but

I left my best clothes behind for fear they
should catch scarlet fever.'

Those people were civil to you, I suppose
?' said the Laird, after a pause.

Lady Eleanor you mean, and her people ?
oh, very, very kind.' She became suddenly
grave, and was silent for a little, although
they were now going slowly up the hill, and
there was every facility for conversation.
When I go back, ' she was thinking, ' I
shall find a letter from Lady Eleanor to
say that Lionel has come back. There
might be one by this time ; and surely,
surely it will come to-day. Why should I
feel so happy unless some pleasant thing
were coming ?'

And now they reached the top of the
hill ; and there again was St. Ethernans,
and the sea, and the blue line of hills that
Elsie loved ; and she remembered how she
had sat and wept on that very spot, thinking
she would never see them more.

'How foolish I was!' she thought.
Never will I believe in presentiments

VOL. III. P

again ! Here I am at home, and at peace.
And what is to happen to me now ?' washer
next thought, but she put it quickly
aside. ' I do not know, nor care. Let me
be happy whilst I can  and be at rest.'

It is hard in this world not to dread meetings because of
partings ; greetings because of farewells. '

The Laird had business in St. Ethernans
and at Nether Bogie which would detain
him some hours ; so he left his daughter at
Aunt Grizel's, promising to return for her.
Elizabeth's well-known face appeared at the
door, and she hastened to lead Elsie into the
parlour, where Aunt Grizel sat in her old
place by the fire. Nothing in the house
was altered, except Aunt Grizel herself, but
Elsie was saddened at seeing how feeble
and fragile-looking the old lady had become.
She was greatly agitated by the meeting
with her niece ; her voice was changed and
broken, and she had lost all her former
activity, being unable even to rise from her
chair without assistance.

Her mind, however, was as vigorous as
ever, and it struck Elsie that either increasing
infirmities had rendered the old lady
more acrimonious, or else she was no longer
restrained by her niece's youth from openly
censuring her neighbours. As soon as she
had recovered a little from the flutter of
excitement into which she was thrown by
Elsie's arrival, she began to reflect upon
Lady Eleanor with some bitterness.

What was the woman thinking of ? has
she no sense ? To send a girl to nurse a
case of scarlet fever  I never heard the
like!'

She did not send me, Aunt Grizzle said
Elsie, laughing. ' She advised me not. I
wanted so much to come.'

Then what was to hinder you coming
before ? That was your Aunt Caroline's
doing, I suppose. Here's wg, years gone
by, and she must needs wait till there is
scarlet fever in the house before she could
let you come.'

Indeed, Aunt Grizel, she knew nothing

about the scarlet fever, so I really don't
think that can be laid to her charge. Aunt
Caroline has been very good to me,' she
added thoughtfully.

So you never rued the day you went to
England V said Aunt Grizel, looking at her
keenly. ' My poor bairn '

Elsie came and sat on the floor in her old
way by Aunt Grizel's chair. 'No,' she said,
I never rued it  I would not have been
without it.' After a pause she went on,
Aunt Caroline would have let me come
home two years ago, but  I did not feel
then  as if I could.'

Aunt Grizel laid her hand softly upon
Elsie's bent head. ' That was a fine lad,
my dear,' she said.

*0 Aunt Grizel!' cried the girl suddenly,
speak to me about him ! Nobody speaks
about him now ; it is as if they had forgotten
he ever lived. You saw him that time ; tell
me everything you can remember. I could
not have borne it then, but now  I just
weary for the sound of his name.'

Then followed a long conversation, in
which Aunt Grlzel narrated all she knew of
David ; his sayings and doings, and the impression
he had made upon her. ' He
minded me of his father,' she continued, ' in
some ways ; but he was darker  he'll have
got that from the mother's side. I never
saw her, you know ; she was a beauty, and
spoilt  as I've been told; but Archibald
Lindsay was a real fine creature.'

'So Is Lady Eleanor,' said Elsie eagerly.
'You would like her, Aunt Grlzel, if you
knew her.'

Humph !' said Aunt Grlzel, who evidently
reserved her opinion upon that point.

Papa never said anything, of course,'
said Elsie, 'but  he liked him too, I think.'

Yes, yes,' said Aunt Grlzel ; * there's no
doubt Robert took to the young man ; It did
him good to have a man body In the house.
Robert's ill to please sometimes, and David
must have been a good-hearted lad to cheer
him up the way he did ; for your father was
like another being for the time.'

I meant to ask you about papa,' said
Elsie. ' He's surely not well, Aunt Grizel ;
his cheeks never used to have those deep
lines in them, and he has lost his colour and
grown thin.'

Ah ! well, it's partly acidity ; and then
Robert has a good deal to put up with  he
that's always been used to have his own
way.'

He has that still,' said Elsie, looking
troubled ; ' at least Euphemia seems to yield
to him in everything  a great deal too much,
I should have thought.'

'Tuts!' said Aunt Grizel, ' she just puts
me beyond patience ! Those soft - headed,
obstinate, peaky women are the worst to deal
with ; they yield, and then they go and take
their own way. She's just wearing Robert
that's your father  to a thread ; and he's
never been the same man since you went
away.'

Do you think I ought to stay at home
now ? Aunt Grizel, advise me, and I will do
whatever you say.'

There's only one thing I would advise
you now, and that is, to go home, and go to
your bed,' said Aunt Grizel, looking at her
anxiously. 'What in the world's keeping
Robert ? You're too white, child, and now
bless me ! you're too red  you're all the
colours of the rainbow !'

I have got a cold,' said Elsie, laughing
faintly. ' Don't be anxious, Aunt Grizel ;
you know I never take infection.'

'Humph!' said Aunt Grizel; 'I wish it
may be so. Well, here's Robert at last.'

After the Laird came in there was no
more talk of this sort, but the conversation
turned on farming and the local news, and as
soon as tea was over, Miss Grizel hurried
them away.

I shall come and see you on Sunday,
Aunt Grizel,' said Elsie, as they rose to take
leave.

If the Lord will, my dear,' said the old
lady solemnly ; * it's not for old people like
me to look so far forward, for we know not
what a day may bring forth.'

Elsie was subdued and quiet during the
drive home ; somehow she began to feel less
certain about finding the letter ; and she was
becoming painfully aware that she was very
tired, and that her throat was sore. ' Yes, I
have caught a little cold, papa,' she said, in
answer to a sudden question from her father;
but it is nothing. I think I caught it the
day I came home, when it rained so hard.'

The Laird said no more, but touched his
horse with the whip and drove home very
fast. When they reached the door, he lifted
his daughter carefully down, and desired her,
in a severe tone, to go at once to her bed and
to put a worsted stocking round her throat.
Before going to her room, Elsie stopped to
look into the nursery. Euphemia came to
the door as she opened it. ' Allan's sleeping,'
she said in a whisper ; ' he's coming on
nicely. Could you come to Peter, he's been
asking for you.'

*I will,' said Elsie rather wearily, 'but I
must change my dress first. Are there any
letters for me, Euphemia ?'

There's one sure enough ; it'll be from
the Drumsheugh people, for it's got a coronet
and initials ; I couldn't just make them out,
but there was an I or a JY, and '

'Well, I'll come back presently;' and Elsie
went in search of her letter.

Euphemia was right ; it was merely a note
of kind inquiries from Lady Ochil, who durst
not, for her children's sake, come to see Elsie
in person. Elsie put it down, sick with disappointment.
She sat down on a low chair
beside the bed, and laid her weary head upon
the pillow. Half an hour latter, Marjorie,
coming in, found her in the same position,
and, much alarmed, put her to bed without
loss of time. Elsie scarcely spoke ; she was
faint and trembling, but when questioned,
admitted that her throat was very sore.

All that night Marjorie watched beside
Elsie's bed. She was undoubtedly attacked
by some kind of fever, and became so rapidly
and alarmingly worse that very early in the
morning a messenger was despatched in haste
to St. Ethernans for the doctor. When he

came, his verdict was far from reassuring.
He was a tall, grave, young man, who gave
his opinion with the air of one whose words
carry much weight ; but he was observed by
those who knew him well to abstain as much
as possible from giving any opinion whatever
upon any subject. He felt the patient's
pulse, and took her temperature ; he fixed
his solemn gaze upon her, first at one side,
then at the other, then from the foot of the
bed, and his face grew longer at each movement.
In answer to Euphemia's eager
questions as to whether this was another
case of scarlet fever, he only replied in a
deep voice, ' There is grate cause for apprehension
here.'

In solemn silence he wrote a prescription,
then gave a few directions to Marjorie respecting
the treatment of the patient ; and
intimated that he would call again next
day.

Would you just step into the nursery
while you're here, doctor?' said Euphemia.

The doctor complied, and calmly surveyed

the two little convalescents, but without uttering
a word.

What do you think, doctor ? ' asked
Euphemia, fluttered and frightened. ' Do
you think Allan not so well ? He was a wee
bit fractious, but '

Here,' replied the doctor, ' is no longer
any cause for aanxietee.'

The oracle then departed, leaving 
much impressed by his wisdom and
medical skill, which consoled her a little
under the new trouble of Elsie's illness.

She is in the very best hands at any
rate,' thought she.

Marjorie, however, did not share 's
cheerful view of the matter.

I cinna ken what is wrong,' she said,
but this is no the way Allan took it ; an'
she'll need a heap o' care or she win round.
I'll no leave her to the likes o' you,' she
muttered under her breath.

The Laird, restless with anxiety, made
frequent visits to his daughter's room to ask
her how she did, and to suggest remedies ;

but Elsie took little notice, and scarcely
seemed to know any one. Sometimes she
would start up and ask eagerly, ' Has Lionel
come back ? ' then, recognising Marjorie or
Euphemia, would beg them to see whether
there was a letter for her. She would always
try to smile in answer to their soothing
words, and lie still for a little while ; then
the restlessness would return, and the same
question be repeated.

The Laird began once more to turn his
thoughts unwillingly towards getting a trained
nurse ; but Marjorie, who had never left
Elsie from the first, and was jealous of anyone
taking her place, remonstrated, and proposed
instead to send for a certain Mrs.
Dewar from St. Ethernans, who was Marjorie's
cousin, and 'a reel purposely woman,'
and who could cook and superintend the
housekeeping. That evening, therefore,
found Mrs. Dewar installed, and Marjorie
was left free to devote herself to her charge.
Poor Euphemia, thus deprived of female
companionship, was now thoroughly miserable,

and it was well that her children took
up so much of her time and thoughts. She
would waylay her husband, and try to keep
him with her, but, though he was not without
a certain consideration for her, she entirely
failed to obtain from him either conversation
or sympathy, while Marjorie sternly, and
without the least ceremony, kept her out
of her stepdaughter's room.

There was no improvement in Elsie's
condition the following day ; and on the
next, which was Saturday, the restlessness
had given place to stupor, and she lay apparently
unconscious.

Notre repentir n'est pas tant un regret du mal que nous avons
fait, queene crainte de celui qui nous en peut arriver.'

Whilst these events were taking place at
Rossiee, Lady Eleanor was still waiting at
Ardvoira for news of her son, and nearly a
week had passed since she sent the telegram.
For the last few days Lady Eleanor had
been irritable and uneasy. On reviewing
the circumstances she did not seriously think
that Lionel had gone to Australia ; yet she
was anxious about him, and impatiently
longed for an answer to her message. On
the other hand, she was dissatisfied with
herself for havioQ let Elsie q-q. She felt that
it was not right, and it hurt her pride to
make excuses for herself. If there was anything
in the world that Lady Eleanor could

not bear, It was being found fault with ; even
the reproaches of her own conscience were
resented by her, but do what she would she
could not get rid of the accusing voice.

On the Saturday after Elsie's departure
Lady Eleanor received a letter from Lionel,
written from the house of an acquaintance in
Yorkshire, the brother of his New Zealand
friend. He wrote that business prevented
his immediate return in answer to her summons,
but that he did not see why his
presence should be so urgently needed at
Ardvoira. Why had Elsie been summoned
to Rossiee so suddenly ? He expected a
letter from his mother with distinct explanations,
and enclosed his full address. He
concluded by saying that he would come back
at once if she really needed him, and at all
events she might rely on his appearing at
Ardvoira in time to accompany her south.
It was characteristic of Lionel to add as a
postscript : ' I hope you have not been disturbing
yourself about me all this time. I
wrote to you the day I left, on board the

Steamer, but forgot to post it. Have just
found the letter in my greatcoat pocket ! '

Lady Eleanor was alone in the house that
afternoon, all the rest of the party having
gone off on a boating expedition ; and she
was seated at her writing-table, pondering
over her answer to her son's letter, when a
visitor was announced, and Mrs. Carmichael
entered, looking somewhat disturbed in mind.

Have you heard from Elsie since she
left ?' she inquired after the first words had
passed.

I had a note to tell of her arrival,' said
Lady Eleanor indifferently. ' The child was
better, I think she said.'

I have just had a letter from my daughter
Isabella,' said Mrs. Carmichael. 'Elsie is
very ill.'

What ? ' Lady Eleanor dropped the
letter she held, and looked full at her visitor.
You don't mean she has taken the fever ?'

My dear, I fear it is so. It is a great
pity she went, never having had it, and I
don't like the account.'

VOL. III. Q

*And I let her go!' cried Lady Eleanor,
rising and beginning to walk about the room.
You are come to reproach me, I suppose 
well, so will Lionel ! You will all say it is
my doing ! and how could I help it ? she
would go.'

Mrs. Carmichael sat quietly and watched
her. ' It was a pity,' she said again.

Is she very ill ?' demanded Lady Eleanor,
stopping her walk. * What does your daughter
say ?'

Mrs. Carmichael took a letter from her
pocket, put on her spectacles deliberately,
and read : 

I met Dr. Robertson's carriage in St.
Ethernans, and stopped him to ask for the
Rossiee children. They are better ; but I
was truly grieved to hear that dear Elsie has
taken the fever. You know one can never
get much out of Dr. Robertson, but he said
there was considerable cause for apprehension.
There seems to be no eruption, but
sore throat and much fever. I wish they
would get her a nurse, and better medical

advice. We will send to inquire for her
tomorrow, and will let you know the
report.'

'You see,' said Mrs. Carmichael, folding
up the letter, ' it is evident the girl is seriously
ill. I wish I saw her father  I would
give him a piece of my mind ! It is a mad-like
thing not to get a nurse, and I know
what these St. Ethernans doctors are ; this
one is just a young ass, and the old one is
quite dotted. It is a bad business altogether.'


But she will get better ? People generally
recover from scarlet fever,' cried Lady
Eleanor in great agitation. ' David and
Lionel both had it  I have had it myself  it
is not so very serious. Mrs. Carmichael, you
don't think she is in danger ?'

I cannot tell,' said Mrs. Carmichael, 'but
I don't like the account. However, I will
let you know what I hear on Monday '  and
she made a movement as if to rise.

Stay,' said Lady Eleanor, ' do not go
yet ; let me think what can be done.'

There is nothing you can do, except
wait.'

Tell me the truth !' cried Lady Eleanor ;
keep nothing from me  you don't think
she will die? She cannot, it is impossible !'

Mrs. Carmichael laid a hand upon her
arm. ' My dear, she is in God's hands.'

Then Lady Eleanor broke into sobs and
tears. * I see you think it. She will die 
I know she will ! and if she dies I shall
never forgive myself! It was my doing 
it was for Lionel. Oh ! how could I let
her go ?'

Mrs. Carmichael stood astonished, and
even a little shocked at this outburst of distress
; she was accustomed to reserve, and
could not understand or sympathise with
such an open display of feeling.

Hush, hush!' she said ; * don't put yourself
into a state. We must not give up
hope, you know ; that would be quite wrong,
and there is no reason for it.'

I knew something was going to happen ! '
said Lady Eleanor. ' All last night I dreamt

of David, and his face reproached me. Am
I to lose Lionel and Elsie too ? Oh, surely
it was a little thing I did to be so punished !'

I do not understand,' said Mrs. Carmichael.
' My dear, tell me the whole story
if it will ease your mind ; but for any sake
try to quiet yourself.'

Lady Eleanor turned abruptly to the
window, as if not quite knowing whether to
be offended or not, but the impulse to relieve
her mind by speech overcame her ; she
turned round again with a hasty movement,
and in doing so overset a vase of flowers
which stood on the table. The water ran
over upon the cloth, and trickled down upon
the floor ; for the moment it arrested her attention,
and she stood silently looking from
it to Mrs. Carmichael with eyes which saw
without comprehending. Her visitor replaced
the vase.

About Lionel, you were saying,' she said
cheerfully, beginning to wipe up the water
with her pocket-handkerchief.

This action recalled Lady Eleanor to herself.

'Never mind that!' she said with
irritation. ' Lionel asked Elsie to marry
him, as I daresay you have guessed.'

Mrs. Carmichael nodded. ' Yes, yes, I
thought as much.'

And she refused him. I don't know
why,' she went on rapidly ; ' I always thought
but no matter. I was out at the time.
Lionel went away post-haste, without so
much as saying good-bye to his mother or
any one ; and Elsie shut herself up in her
room, and said nothing to me  to be sure
she didn't know he was gone. When I went
to her in the evening to find out, and asked
her where he was, she looked perfectly terrified,
and said she didn't know. Then, of
course, I found out she had refused him.'

I am sorry to hear she refused Lionel,'
said Mrs. Carmichael in her calm voice.
Do you think she knew her own mind V

Oh ! I am sure I don't know. She must
have driven him to despair, poor boy, for he
was perfectly wrapped up in her. She was
frightened, as I said, when she heard he was

gone ; and I  I thought he would never
come back, and I '

'You fell foul of her, I suppose?' suggested
Mrs. Carmichael.

Elsie had had a letter from her stepmother,
wanting her to come home and nurse
that child ; and she persuaded me to telegraph
to Lionel that she was gone  she said
that would bring him back. She was very
urgent with me, and  well, I consented, and
this is the end of it. She was off early the
next morning.'

Mrs. Carmichael kept silence for a few
moments, and Lady Eleanor still stood by the
table, mechanically arranging the ornaments
upon it. ' Of course you think I was very
much to blame ?' she said.

My dear, it is not for me to judge
my neighbour,' answered Mrs. Carmichael
gravely. ' We may all fall into mistakes,
but we must just bear the consequences. I
trust dear Elsie may get better yet ; we have
no reason to think the contrary. I confess I
didn't make the best of it to you, for I was a

kind of vexed with you, and my mind misgave
me for the poor motherless lassie. But
there is no use crying over spilt milk.'

Lady Eleanor's thoughts had begun to
wander during the latter part of this speech.

'How soon will the next report come?'
she asked abruptly.

*0n Monday, I suppose; tomorrow is
Sunday. No ! stop a minute  I will drive
to Portarnish to the English Church, and
call at the post-office for the letters. If
you come or send to Glen Torran in the
afternoon, you will get the news. Now I
must go.'

Lady Eleanor was uncommunicative to
her own party regarding Elsie's illness, and
cut their questionings rather short. In her
own mind she was planning what to do incase
no better accounts reached her from
Glen Torran. Elsie should not and must not
die, she said to herself. Such a thing was
impossible, unheard of; she would prevent
it. Mrs. Carmichael's words about the insufficient
medical attendance, which she had

scarcely heeded at the time, recurred to her ;
and she made up her mind that she would
herself start for Rossle the first moment she
could  early on Monday morning. Lionel
should not have It in his power to reproach
her for what she had done ; she would snatch
Elsie from the very jaws of death ; she
would see Captain Ross and insist on procuring
the very best medical advice and
assistance. In the meantime she spoke of
this scheme to no one, not even to her
husband, but passed a sleepless night, revolving
plans in her mind, and building
castles in the air, in which she saw Elsie
restored to health by her means, and happily
married to Lionel. The morning brought
a corresponding weight of anxiety and depression
; Lady Eleanor rose with a headache,
and found herself quite unfit to go to
church that day. Blanche, who was eager
to obtain news of Elsie's condition, begged
to be the one to go to Glen Torran, to which
her aunt consented, charging her to bring
back all particulars as speedily as possible.

She had not very long to wait ; for Mrs.
Carmichael had made no attempt to detain
Blanche, and the girl, alarmed at what she
had heard, was in haste to upbraid her aunt
with what she thought her indifference.

Aunt Eleanor,' she said, entering hastily,
the accounts are no better, and I am sure
Mrs. Carmichael thinks Elsie dangerously
ill. You never told us she was very ill
at all'

I did !' said Lady Eleanor ; ' if you don't
choose to listen, I can't help it. What did
she tell you to-day?'

Only that she is no better, and they are
very anxious about her. That was all Lady
Ochil could hear. Aunt Eleanor, you don't
seem to care!' continued the excited girl.
'It is dreadful that we should know no more
than that. I want to go and nurse her, she
must not be left '

She is not going to be left,' interrupted
Lady Eleanor. ' Don't be so foolish, Blanche;
I am going to Rossiee myself, and will see
that she is properly attended to.'

You, Aunt Eleanor!' exclaimed Blanche
in great astonishment. ' I thought you didn't
like nursing  it would be much better forme
to go. What does Uncle Frederick
say ? '

I have made up my mind,' said Lady
Eleanor ; ' and I shall start tomorrow morning
by the first steamer. Don't go talking
about it, Blanche ; nobody knows yet ;  but
I am certain they don't give that girl proper
medicines and things, else she would never
have been so ill.'

I daresay not,' said Blanche, with her
air of superior knowledge. * Country doctors
seldom understand the treatment of infectious
complaints. I think you are right to go.
Aunt Eleanor ; still '

I shall leave everything in your charge,
Blanche. You have some sense if you
choose to use it  Constance has none. Now
mind you say nothing about it this evening.'

Mr. Fitzgerald was thrown into great consternation
by his wife's sudden, and to him
incomprehensible design. He at first tried

to dissuade her by every possible argument,
and finding this utterly useless, he consoled
himself by looking out her trains in bradshaw,
and trying to prove that she could not
reach Rossiee under three days at the shortest.
No sooner was this theory demolished than
he received a fresh shock by finding that she
proposed to go alone and unattended even
by her maid ; but he insisted on sending his
own servant, Pritchard, to see her safe to her
journey's end.

I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
And not have strew'd thy grave.'

The next morning Lady Eleanor set off, onboard
the same steamer by which Elsie had
left Ardvoira exactly a week before. Unlike
Elsie, she got on board with little delay
or trouble, but, owing to a stoppage of
two hours at an intermediate port for the
purpose of taking in sheep, the steamer
arrived at Oban so late that Lady Eleanor
missed her train. There was a later one,
however, which was available, and, escorted
by Pritchard, she succeeded, by six in the
evening, in reaching Lauriston, a town a
few miles from Crossings Junction. Hereafter
hiring a carriage, she dismissed Pritchard,
resolving to post the rest of the way ;

and, urging the driver to use what speed he
could, she started alone upon her twenty-eight
miles' drive.

Delays, however, were unavoidable ; and
the night had long since fallen when her
carriage rolled up the Rossiee avenue, and a sudden
loud peal at the bell startled the watchers
within the silent house. The children were
asleep ; Euphemia had quitted the nursery ;
fearful of disturbing her husband, and yet
craving for companionship, she had gone to
Marjorie's room, and the two were sitting
over the fire, talking in subdued voices,
Euphemia sobbing.

Eh ! Marjorie, this is an eerie house,' she
was saying ; * you hear the queerest noises
whiles. Last night I gude sake, what's
that ?' as a second peal at the bell made both
women start from their seats.

'It's the front door,' said Marjorie; 'it
maun hae been the bell we heard afore.
What's come o' the lassie that she diana gang
billet ?' and, taking a light, Marjorie hastened
towards the kitchen. In the passage she

met the Laird coming out of his room ; he
looked worn and haggard.

Are none of you going to answer the
bell?" he said. 'Can't you hear there is
somebody at the door ? '

'Yes, sir,' said Marjorie softly, and put
her head into the kitchen, while her master
retreated again into his room. 'Jessie!' she
called in a loud whisper  ' Jess ! div ye no
hear the bell ? gang to the door, like a
woman, for the Captain's reel ill-pleased.'

I cinna like.' said Jessie, cowering and
drawing nearer to !Mrs. Dewar for protection.

'Tutti' and without another word Marjorie
turned her back upon the frightened
girl and went to the door herself. As she
opened it, a tall lady in a long fur cloak
came straight up the steps and into the
house, as one who had a right to enter
there. Marjorie moved a little aside instinctively
and said nothing, but held up
her light to gaze with great wonder and
fear in the face of the stranger. She had
never seen her before, this dark haired,

beautiful, imperious woman ; what right
could she have there ?

Lady Eleanor looked beyond Marjorie
into the dark hall, as if expecting something,
then turned and spoke to her.

How is Miss Ross ?'

The candle Marjorie held wavered and
flickered in her trembling hand, and for the
moment no answer came.

This is Captain Ross's house, is it not ?'
said Lady Eleanor, wondering at the look
of fear and perplexity in the woman's face.
'Will you take my card to your mistress ?'

'Yes, ma'am,' said Marjorie under her
breath, recovering herself now that she saw
she was speaking to a real lady of flesh and
blood ; ' but Captain Ross is in great trouble
this night, and  but will you please to step
in?'

She led Lady Eleanor into the drawing-room,
where a dying fire still flickered ;
stirred the coals into a blaze, and left her.
For a moment Marjorie stopped outside
her master's door, fingering the card doubtfully,

and half hoping he would come out
and question her ; but as there was no movement
within, she was afraid to intrude, and
took it to Mrs. Ross as she had been desired.
She found her mistress in the nursery, sitting
by little Allan's crib, and made a sign to her
to come out ; for poor Euphemia was treated
with very little ceremony by her servants,
and was herself inclined to behave to them
as to equals.

Euphemia therefore rose with alacrity,
and hastened into the passage, burning with
curiosity.

It's a strange teddy has come,' said
Marjorie, 'and'  in an awestruck whisper
'she's spirit' for Miss Elsie.'

And  and you told her ?'

'No me!' said Marjorie. 'Here her
caird  she bid me bring it to you. You'll
need to gang till her, mem.'

'Lady Eleanor Fitzgerald,' read Euphemia.
Preserve us all ! Oh, mercy me, Marjorie !
that'll we do } D'ye think she's come to
stay ?'

VOL. III. R

Teddy Ailnor Fitzgerald,' repeated Marjory.
' Aweel, mem, I cinna think she'll
gang wa the night. Will I mak' ready
the best bedroom ?'

Stop, Marjorie ! cinna go away,' cried
Euphemia piteously. * Oh, I don't think I
can speak to her. What like is she ?'

She's a very grand teddy,' replied Marjorie.
' But gang you to the drawing-room,
mem ; it's doubtless your part to speak till
her. Or speak to the Captain; I've warrant
hell no be feared.'

Oh, woman, come with me ! I aren't
walk the stairs alone.'

Marjorie followed in silence, with a certain
contemptuous dignity, and they again
paused before the door of the Laird's room.
Euphemia knocked timidly, but no answer
came. * No, no!' she breathed out, arresting
Marjorie's hand, which was raised to
knock again  'he'll be angered  he heard
well enough ; I would rather face the lady.'

At the drawing-room door Marjorie
stopped. ' Will it be your pleasure that L

bide here, mem ? ' she inquired stiffly.
Euphemia gave her a deprecating look.

I'll not be long,' she stammered, fumbling
at the door, which was suddenly thrown
open from the inside, and she found herself
face to face with Lady Eleanor.

Mrs. Ross ? I am extremely sorry to
inconvenience you, but I was very anxious
about our dear Elsie, and I came  I trust
she is not worse V

Oh, my lady ! oh dear, dear,' wailed
Euphemia, beginning to sob. ' Oh ! what
will I do?'

'She is not  dead?' said Lady Eleanor
fiercely, making a step forward ; then catching
sight of Marjorie  'What are you all
afraid of? why do you look at me so ? what
do you mean ? Take me to her room at
once ; she will not die  she cannot be '

My teddy,' said Marjorie firmly, stepping
forward, ' Gin ye be come to see Miss Elsie
in life, ye' re come over late. She died at
six o' the clock yestreen.'

Lady Eleanor was silent for a moment,

Stunned ; then threw up her clasped hands
with a wild gesture. 'Great God!' she
said  and turned upon poor helpless
Euphemia as if she would have slain her.
Why did you not tell me, woman, that she
was dying ?' she cried, stamping her foot.
'Why did you not write  telegraph? I
would have saved her  I came for that ;
and you  you have been with her and let
her die before your eyes ! '

Euphemia cowered and wrung her hands,
her sobs becoming almost hysterical.

'Whist!' said Marjorie, 'for the Lord's
sake whist ! ye'll waken the bairns. My
teddy, Mrs. Ross is  is overcome, as you
see, and the Captain manna be disturbed.'
She took Euphemia by the arm and drew
her away. The Laird was standing in his
doorway as they passed. ' Make less noise,'
he said gruffly ; and was about to retreat
again when Marjorie stopped him.

If you please, sir, Teddy Ailnor Fitzgerald
is come, and she'll be seeking to see
you.'

Come ! where ?'

In the drawing-room, sir. She thought
to see  she was not aware, sir, of the trouble.'

The Laird put his hand to his forehead.

I cannot see her,' he said. ' Tell her so.
Give her what she wants. What's the matter
\xh yo2t,?'  turning to his wife  'that you
can't attend to people ?' Then, as Euphemia
answered only by a still louder sob, he turned
away with a weary impatient groan.

Put your mistress to bed, ' he said to
Marjorie. ' Why do you let her overdo
herself?'  He went back into his room and
shut the door, then, as if by an afterthought,
he put out his head again. ' See that you
give that  that lady a civil message '  he
paused, as if racking his brain to find one.
'Give her my compliments. If she will dome
the favour to stay I will see her tomorrow.'


Marjorie had a hard task before her.
Having attended to Euphemia, and provided
for Lady Eleanor's accommodation, she returned
to give the latter the Laird's message,

and to conduct her to her room. Lady-eleanor
was walking up and down the room,
with clenched hands, in angry impatient
grief; no longer the stately dignified lady
Marjorie had met at the door, but a wild,
passionate woman, with sharp, haggard face
and disordered dress. Marjorie scarcely
knew how to address her.

If you please, my teddy,' she said, and
stopped. No notice was taken, and she
began again louder. ' The Captain, my
teddy '

Lady Eleanor ceased her fierce walk up
and down, and made an impatient sign to
her to go on.

The Captain, my teddy,' said Marjorie,
considerably embarrassed, looking down and
plaiting her apron into little folds as she
spoke, 'takes it very kind your being here,
and his compliments, and he will hope to see
you tomorrow. Your ladyship's room is
ready,* she concluded, taking up the candle,
and holding the door open for her to pass out.

Lady Eleanor went to the room prepared

for her without a word ; and Marjorie, having
Halted her candles, said, * The tea will be
ready shortly. Will I bring it up ? or will
your ladyship please to come down ?'

I want nothing,' said Lady Eleanor
harshly ; ' you can go. Please to leave me
alone.'

larjorie retired, and took counsel with
herself as to what should be her next step.
inly certe, she's a proud teddy yon ; I've
warrant few would say nay to her. But to
think as she could keep the pair lamb in life
when it was the Lord's will that she sold dee.
Eh ! it's an awful' like pride yon. But for
guiding' herself' she's nae better nor a bairn.
She manna gang fasten' till her bed ; I'll
tak' her up her drap tea.'

It was with no little trepidation that
Marjorie again ventured to the best bedroom
door with her tray ; but she was sustained by
a sense of her own importance as well as of
duty, and felt it necessary for the credit of
the house that no visitor should be allowed
to go ' fasting to her bed.'

Having knocked several times without
receiving any answer, she took courage and
went in. Lady Eleanor had flung herself
upon the sofa with her head buried in the
cushions, and, overcome by fatigue and grief,
wept and moaned like a child, without restraint.
Marjorie waited till she was quieter,
then spoke to her soothingly, and tried to
raise the cushion under her head. Lady
Eleanor made no resistance ; she seemed to
have no strength left to be angry or offended ;
she drank the cup of tea which was held to
her lips, but pushed away all other food, and
Marjorie did not press it upon her.

After a while Marjorie offered to help her
to undress, but Lady Eleanor, still weeping
violently, shook her head. ' Was it you,' she
said presently, 'who told me she was dead ?'

It's over true,' said Marjorie sadly ; ' but
oh ! my teddy, cinna greet that way. It's
the Lord's w411. He kens best.'

Best!' cried Lady Eleanor. ' How dare
you say so ? Why should she die ? she was
young and strong. It is monstrous, it is

cruel. Why do you stand there ? are you
made of stone ? have you no feeling ? But
you do not care, I suppose  why should
you ?'

I\Ie ? I daurna greet!' replied Marjorie,
with a tremble in her voice that was half
anger. ' Should na the Lord tak' hame His
ain ? I've held her in these arms  she's
been like a bairn to me  and there'll be mony
a sir heart for her sake forbye yours and
mine. But it's no when she's lying did ben
the house'  here the tears trickled down
Marjorie's cheeks  ' that sic words should
be spoken. And if you saw her  would ye
come and look on her, my teddy ?'

Lady Eleanor turned away shuddering
but suddenly seemed to change her mind.
I will come,' she said.

It would be difficult to define her motive
in thus acting ; for she had a natural shrinking
from death, and everything connected
with it, and in a calmer moment would have
done anything rather than face such a sight.
Perhaps in the morbid state of her feelings

she wished to spare herself no additional
pang; perhaps she had some undefined
lingering hope that Elsie might not be
really dead after all. She might have fallen
into some long faint or trance, such things
were not quite unheard of. There might bea
possibility of her reviving ; or were it not
so, surely the released spirit could not be sofar
on its way (even this wild thought crossed
Lady Eleanor's mind) that it would not come
back at her bidding  at her entreaty.

It was with a strange feeling, as of one
who walks in a dream, that she followed
Marjorie up the steps and along the narrow
passage to the turret room where the dead
girl lay.

As she went along Marjorie muttered a
sort of apology for her arrangements, lest
her reverence for the dead might seem to
savour of superstition. ' It's the White
room,' she said, 'an' it's a far way off  an'
I just left a pair of wax candles burning' 
an' the Drumsheugh folk they sent white
flowers. It's a foolishness, but it's their gude

will, nae coot. And she aye like flowers,
dear lamb.'

The room was dimly lighted by the
candles Marjorie had placed there ; and
between the white curtains lay the form of
Elsie, still and beautiful, with Eucharis lilies
laid beside her on the bed.

Marjorie had judged rightly. When
Lady Eleanor left that calm presence, all
violent agitation was subdued ; she became
reasonable and quiet, and suffered herself to
be undressed and put to bed.

She understood now ; dimly and painfully
she comprehended. That white rigid form
was not Elsie ; the spirit which used to
animate it was gone where no weak earthly
cry could reach it ; and she felt as she stood
there that even if the words were put into
her mouth which had power to call Elsie
back to life, she would not dare to speak
them.

And you shall deal the funeral dole ;

Ay, deal it, mother mine.
To weary body, and to heavy soul,

The white bread and the wine. . . .
But deal not vengeance for the deed,

And deal not for the crime ;
The body to its place, and the soul to Heaven's grace,

And the rest in God's own time.'

The promised Interview with the Laird did
not take place next day. Lady Eleanor was
too unwell to leave her room, and it was
only towards evening that she was able to
get up and sit by the fire, wrapped in her
dressing-gown. Euphemia, after her night's
rest, had forgotten most of her tremors, and
was even disposed rather to plume herself
upon the fact that she entertained a lady of
title under her roof. She was officious in
her offers of assistance, and, with a little
encouragement, would have been glad to

pour out to her guest the whole painful
history of the last week, down to its minutest
detail. But Lady Eleanor would none of her.

You are very kind,' she said, closing her
eyes languidly, ' but I would rather you did
not sit with me. I really need nothing.'

I am sure,' said Euphemia, twisting her
hands, ' your ladyship is very easily pleased.
I am really happy to see you so composed-like.
But is there nothing you could take }
I am sure anything in my power '

I should like to see the woman who came
to me last night, if you don't mind,' said
Lady Eleanor.

Euphemia retired rather crestfallen ; she
would so dearly have liked a little gossip ;
and she had got no conversation out of
Marjorie, who had been very ' short,' as her
mistress phrased it, all day, and anything but
respectful, for it must be confessed that Marjorie
was considerably uplifted in mind by
her success of last night.

She waited upon Lady Eleanor as desired
; and the latter, opening her large dark

eyes, regarded her fixedly. 'What is your
name ?' she said.

Marjorie Hay, my teddy,' was the reply
with a curtsy ; for there was something in
this lady's manner which compelled from
Marjorie the respect which she denied to
Euphemia.

Sit down there,' said Lady Eleanor, indicating
a chair opposite to her ; ' I wish to
speak to you. You were  Miss Roses
nurse, you said.'

I was, my teddy.' And, encouraged by
Lady Eleanor's questions and evident interest,
she went on to tell her of many things  of
Elsie's childhood, and the old days before
she left Rossiee ; of the blank her absence had
made, and how her father had grown old and
worn before his time. How he had cheered
up at her return that wet and stormy day the
week before ; how sweetly she had attended
to him and nursed the children until the
fever struck her down ; and of the last few
days of suffering. Of these there was little
to tell ; the poor child had been mostly wandering,

and had not been able to speak much ;
but Lady Eleanor heard with tears of her
constant questions about Lionel, and her
anxiety that he should come home.

'But after that day,' said Marjorie, 'she
was real quiet ; and when she could speak
she aye smiled. I kent from the first how it
would be,' she went on, lowering her voice.
I had had a warning.'

Lady Eleanor looked inquiring.

The day she turned ill, she gazed wa' to
St. Ethernans wi' the Laird, an' they were
gey late of coming' hame. I was lookin for
them, an' I thocht to take a breath of caller
air at the door. The sun was going' down ina
bonny sky, an' I saw a white doo '

A white doo ? '

That's a dauve,' explained Marjorie, ' just
a white dauve, an' it cam' foot o' the wast
straight afore my been, an' flew in at the
White room window  ye never saw the like
an' I gazed in, an' I seekit every part  an'
there was nae doo ! It was a warning'. D'ye
believe in the things ?'

I don't know,' said Lady Eleanor, startled
at the pointed question ; ' you should ask a
clergyman. But what happened next ?'

As I was saying resumed Marjorie, * Miss
Elsie never held up her head sin' that night,
an' it was on the Sabbath at the same hour
that she died. Ye ken the White room
window is to the west  an' the sun it was
near down, an' the sky was red, red wi' a
bonny licht  an' she gar'd me turn her wi'
her face to the west. I thocht she was a wee
thing better, an' I went to draw up a bit o'
the blind, an' study there a minute ; an' when
I turned again  I took a thocht to send for
the Laird. An' she was gone before he
came. '

Marjorie said no more, but sat looking
before her musing, while Lady Eleanor leaned
back in her arm-chair with her eyes closed.
She looked very pale and sad ; her thick
dark hair hung loose about her shoulders ;
her white hands lay listlessly upon her lap.
She had lost much of the imperious planner
which had awed Marjorie at first ; yet the

latter, as she looked at her, was struck afresh
by her uncommon and refined beauty. After
a little while Marjorie rose.

Will your ladyship be needing anything
further ?' she inquired with deep respect.

No, nothing, thank you. Stay a moment.
When is the  the funeral ?'

On Thursday, my teddy, at one o'clock.'

It was a still October day when Elsie was
laid to rest by her mother's side in the
churchyard of St. Ethernans. Lady Eleanor
had fully made up her mind to attend the
funeral, and see the last of her whom she so
deeply mourned. During the intervening
day she did not leave her room, as she still
felt weak and ill, and was anxious to keep
all her strength for this effort. She knew it
was not the usual custom in Scotland for
women to attend funerals, but for this she
did not care in the least. No argument of
Euphemia or Marjorie had the least effect in
deterring her ; but she was finally induced
to give up her purpose by a somewhat peremptory
message from the Laird, who inti-

VOL. III. s

mated that on his return he would be glad
to see her, but in the meantime he would be
much obliged if she would stay at home.

As the afternoon drew on, she could no
longer bear the solitude of her own room,
but came down to the dreary drawing-room,
and sat there with Euphemia, silent and abstracted.
The Laird's refusal to let her accompany
him made Lady Eleanor very unhappy,
not that the sight of the grave would have
been anything but most painful to her, but
because she was morbidly desirous of inflicting
penance upon herself, by way of atoning
in some sort for her carelessness of Elsie
while she lived. At first her impulse had
been to confess it all to Captain Ross, and
so, if possible, ease her conscience of its
burden ; but how could she meet the bereaved
father, returning from his child's new-made
grave, and tell him that, but for her
selfish negligence, that daughter might yet
have been alive and well ? She looked
across at Euphemia, who sat opposite to her,
black-robed and tearful, yet "complacent, her

mind still running upon the dismal hospitalities
of the occasion.

But Lady Eleanor had little insight into
character, and in her softened and repentant
state she pitied Euphemia. Presently a
carriage drove up the avenue.

There's the Captain come back, poor
man,' said his wife with a sigh ; 'he'll like to
see you, my lady. Not that he's in any
hurry,' she added with anxious politeness,
'just whenever it suits your ladyship's convenience.
Shall I tell him you are ready ?'

Stay, Mrs. Ross,' said Lady Eleanor,
rousing herself to prevent Euphemia leaving
the room. ' I had something to say to you.'

Euphemia sat down again immediately, .
but her guest did not speak for some
minutes.

I was very rude to you the night I came,'
she said at last abruptly.

Oh no! my lady, Lm sure I never
thought ' said Euphemia in great embarrassment.


But I was very rude,' repeated Lady

Eleanor sharply. 'Why do I say rude? I
was brutal. Do you know why ?'  she rose
excitedly and stood before Euphemia s chair.
You told me Elsie was dead, and it was my
fault'

Euphemia, terrified and uncomprehending,
burst into a flood of tears. * Oh ! my lady,
I know,' she sobbed out, ' I know it was all
my blame her coming here ; but Allan was
so ill, and I was that put about  and oh ! I
never thought to have it cast up to me again.
The Captain, poor man, he never said a word ;
for when she turned so ill I couldn't hold my
tongue, and I up and told him It was my
blame, and he never raged nor nothing.'

Lady Eleanor looked at her perfectly
astonished.

Are you in your senses ?' she said. * I
cannot think what you mean. I tell you It
was my fault  I let Elsie come here when I
knew there was infection.'

Your fault ! oh, my lady, it was me !  I
wrote to her to come.'

*So you did !' said Lady Eleanor, remembering

this for the first time. She paused a
moment, while it slowly dawned upon her
that this other mother had also sacrificed
Elsie for her own child's sake. * We have
both been to blame,' she said gently, taking
Euphemia by the hand. ' Do not cry so  I
never meant to agitate you. We have both
cause to be most unhappy.'

Lady Eleanor's sympathy had never before
been so fully awakened. Remembering her
own agonies of remorseful pain, she judged
others by herself, and had no comprehension
of Euphemia's duller nature. In her great
compassion she took the sobbing woman in
her arms. ' Do not cry,' she repeated.

It was perhaps well for Euphemia that
she was at this moment summoned to the
nursery, whither she retired with a lightened
heart, impressed with the idea that all blame
was now shifted from her shoulders to Lady
Eleanor's.

During her absence the Laird entered.
The black clothes which he wore that day
altered him strangely ; and even Lady

Eleanor, who had never seen him before,
was struck by his worn unhappy look. His
manner was gruff as usual, yet there was an
odd sort of dignity about him as he advanced
and greeted her.

I'm sorry to hear you've been indisposed,'
he said when the first words had passed.
You have taken a great deal of trouble coming
here.'

My coming has proved quite useless.
Captain Ross, and I fear inconvenient. Will
you forgive my troubling you at such a time ?
I leave tomorrow.'

The Laird made her a bow. ' I can't ask
you to stay longer at present,' said he. ' Another
time  in summer, when the weather is
good, I should be glad to see you. Though
there is nothing to come for now.'

Lady Eleanor raised her head to frame
some answer, but none came, her eyes were
full of tears. The Laird too had evidently
something to say which he had a difficulty in
bringing out.

I am obliged to you,' he said at length,

for the regard you have shown to my
daughter. She  she was very sensible of it.'

She was very dear to me,' said Lady
Eleanor in a broken voice.

x\t this moment Euphemia entered, and
caught the last words. She saw Lady
Eleanor standing before the Laird pale and
agitated, and looked anxiously from one
to the other. Nothing surely, short of his
displeasure, could have brought tears to her
ladyship's eyes. The foolish kindly creature
felt impelled to interfere on her behalf, for
terrified as Euphemia was of her husband, she
never could let him alone.

Oh ! Captain, you'll surely not be ill at
her ladyship, and her so kind as to take the
blame on herself. For indeed, until her ladyship
came I thought it was me that did all themis
 chief, but you see now that I am not so
senseless as you make out.'

I don't understand a word you say,' said
the Laird. He fixed a stony stare upon
his wife ; then looked inquiringly at Lady
Eleanor.

I had not intended to speak again on this
most painful subject,' said the latter rather
haughtily, but with her eyes on the ground.
I left it to Mrs. Ross to tell you  if she
wished it  at a better time ; but I know too
well that your present grief is greatly owing
to my carelessness. I might have prevented
her coming here. I have been much to
blame.'

There is no blame,' said the Laird sternly.
I blame nobody. It was all a mistake together,'
he added, . putting his hand to his
forehead with the weary gesture which had
lately become habitual to him.

Then he turned upon his wife. ' Go to
your children.' He said this with such bitter
sharpness that Euphemia started aside as if
he had struck her.

'Yes, yes,' she whimpered, ' cinna be put
about now  oh. Captain, you're so hasty! and
me just newly come down !'

Would you  oblige me  by going to
your children ? ' said the Laird with ironical
politeness, holding the door open for her to

pass out. When he had shut it after her he
came back to Lady Eleanor, who had seated
herself, and looked on at this little scene with
a slight expression of contempt upon her face.

My wife  means well,' he said. ' At
least, I suppose so. She came to me with
some story about a letter she had written 
women can't hold their tongues  if she spoke
of it to you '

Lady Eleanor made an affirmative sign.

I wish it to be understood that / blame
no one.' The Laird said this with difficulty,
as if putting some force upon himself, and
choosing his words with great care.

You are generous. Captain Ross,' said
Lady Eleanor.

'While I am upon this subject  which
need not be returned to '  he continued with
the same laborious formality  ' I have some
things here which should belong to you.' He
opened a desk which he had brought in with
him, and placed in Lady Eleanor's hands a
case containing David's watch and the ring
which he had given to Elsie. Then, without

giving her time to speak, he looked at the
clock, and, muttering that he had some business
to attend to which would detain him
till dinner time, and that he would send down
Euphemia, he hastily left the room.

Except at meals, and at the moment of
her departure from Rossiee the next day. Lady
Eleanor saw no more of the Laird. He was
polite to her, and behaved to his wife with
studied gentleness, evidently putting some
strong restraint upon himself.

As she drove away and left him standing
upon the steps, something in his figure and
look brought tears into her eyes. They
never met again, but Lady Eleanor always
speaks of the Laird of Rossiee with deep
regard, almost with reverence.

The foreooinor record of events was written
some years ago, and it was then necessary,
for obvious reasons, to end the narrative
somewhat abruptly, for it is impossible for
the faithful chronicler to write an account of
events before they have taken place.

But if the reader has any curiosity to
follow the fortunes of the various persons
who have figured in these pages up to the
present time, he cannot do better than look
into Rosamond Ponsonby's drawing-room on
a November afternoon four years later, and
listen to her impressions of her kindred and
friends as she finds them on her return from
abroad. For the Ponsonbys have wearied of
wandering, for the present, and decided upon
buying a house in London, and furnishing
it at their leisure, which is likely to afford

them agreeable occupation for a year or two,
or until something more interesting turns up.

They have just returned to their new
house for the winter, and Blanche Hargrave
has come to pay her sister a visit, bringing
with her her latest-born, the son and heir,
whose arrival has lately so engrossed his
mother s thoughts as to render her somewhat
indifferent to all that has taken place outside
her own immediate family circle.

Rosamond is as gay and bright as ever,
and looks absurdly young to be the mother
of a girl of fourteen ; yet there Is a trace of
dissatisfaction on her face, as If she found life
disappointing. Perhaps she Is too ambitious
to be a thoroughly happy woman ; whereas
Blanche, lying back on her sofa and pretending
to knit a baby's sock, looks the picture of
content. She has grown stout, too, and
matronly, and looks about ten years older
than Rose, whose conversation she finds
frivolous, and to whom she Is in the habit of
giving sage advice as to the management of
her husband and daughter.

I have just come back from such a funny
visit, Blanche,' said Rose, sitting down with
her back to the fire, and disposing herself
for conversation. ' To Chippingham of all
places ! Just fancy old Mrs. Lindsay asking
me ! It was on William's account, of course 
but, after all, we got on quite well together.'

Who is old Mrs. Lindsay ? ' asked
Blanche vacantly, ' and why shouldn't you
get on together ? '

Blanche, do rouse yourself and pay
attention, ' answered Rose. ' I am in a
mood for talking, and I insist on being
listened to. I know you think of nothing,
day and night, but those babies of yours ;
but you have not forgotten Elsie Ross,
surely ?'

Is it likely,' said Blanche with dignity,
when I have a little Elsie at home to remind
me of her constantly 1 But I remember
now about Mrs. Lindsay ; poor Elsie
used to talk of her often  go on, I am interested.'


It is odd,' said Rose, pausing. ' I used

to wish to see it all so much, as Elsie described
it. It is changed now, of course
the old General being dead ; but Mrs
Lindsay is much the same, I should think.'

I didn't know the General was dead.'

The old lady told me all about it. He
died more than three years ago, not long
after Elsie. I don't mean that her death
had anything to do with his  he never heard
of it even, being unconscious at the time. It
was paralysis, as far as I could gather, but
poor Mrs. Lindsay uses so many figures of
speech.'

Poor old lady ! and how does she get
on without him ?'

Oh, she is happy, I think, in her own
way. Yes, he is her sainted Henry now,
you know ; and she visits his grave  it is
always an object for a drive. And she
keeps anniversaries  she put off our visit
on account of some anniversary, because
she cannot have any one staying in the
house on these occasions. I am trying to
remember which one it was  it was not the

day of his death  or of his birth  or of his
funeral  or of his paralytic stroke  or of
their marriage  I think it was the anniversary
of the day on which he proposed
to her, but I am not sure. And she hasher
dear Cecilia to live with her  Miss
Maynard  not a bit changed, I am certain ;
and the self same servants, Parkins and
Howell and Trotter; but there is no Herbert
; the buttons boy has disappeared from
the establishment. There is still a footman
called William, though I think he must bea
different one ; Mrs. Lindsay was always
saying *' William!" in a severe tone, which
was very terrifying, for I thought she meant
my husband, and that he had been doing
something wrong ; but he is as great a
favourite as ever, and she puts up with me
for his sake. There is only one pug now
a very fat one called Bijou, with a most
repulsive expression. The old lady was
interested to hear that little Hans is still
alive, and that Mona loves him so. She
was fond of Elsie, I do think, in her own

way ; but it would not have lasted ; she is
always setting up some new idol. At
present it is one of the Ernest Maynard's
children.'

Oh yes, ' said Blanche, ' I remember
that name ; Elsie mentioned it, and I made
her tell me all about the engagement, for I
was interested in engagements then. Describe
Mr. Maynard, Rose.'

I can't describe him, although I was
taken to his house. Mrs. Lindsay said it
would be so good for me to see the model
of a happy English home. Mr. Maynard
was there, certainly, the whole time,  a tall
man with correct clothes and black mutton-chop
whiskers,  and he opened the door for
us and shut it again, and handed tea, and
did everything he ought to do ; but somehow
he made no impression on me, he
seemed entirely merged in his wife, whose
flow of conversation never ceased. The
children were brought in '

Are they fine children ? how many ?'

Only two, and they are not so fat as

yours, Blanche, nor have they such big black
eyes ; but they are prodigies of beauty and
intelligence, according to their mother and
Mrs. Lindsay. Caroline Cecilia, who is
three, can both say grace and repeat a
hymn ; and Henry Beauchamp Dale, atone
and a quarter, is aware that he is his
mamma's darling, and his papas joy, and
his Aunt Caroline's comfort, and his Aunt
Cecilia's treasure. He can also blow a kiss
to Dr. Bernardo. Mrs. Lindsay says of
these children : " Line's is a sensitive,
ethereal nature, but of the two, Beauchamp
has the more angelic disposition." He will
often, his mother told us, take the sugarplum
from out of his own mouth to "pop"
it into his sister's. By the bye, I don't
remember ever seeing your Molly or Elsie
doing that, Blanche. I am afraid they
haven't a giving spirit.'

'What nonsense. Rose,' said Blanche
impatiently. ' Do talk of something else.
Have you seen Heathfield's bride V

No,' was the answer, ' I only heard of

VOL. III. T

her from Aunt Eleanor, but she seems to
be perfection. Well born, well brought upwell
off, pretty  but not pretty enough to
turn anybody's head, very amiable, just
nineteen, Heathfield very much in love,
and his parents in the seventh heaven of
delight. Happy Heathfield ! I wish ' 
here Rose's tone grew graver  'we could
hear the same news of Lionel, poor dear
boy.'

'You used not to like Lionel,' remarked
Blanche. * / always did.'

'Well, I like him now,' said Rosamond.
He is very much improved, and no one
could help being sorry for him. He has
gone through so much, and borne it so well ;
and he is so good to his mother, it is quite
pretty to see them together. I wish he
would marry, for his own sake ; though it
would be a terrible blow to Aunt Eleanor,
of course.'

Not a blow at all,' said Blanche. ' Aunt
Eleanor is always wishing for his marriage ;
why, she says it is her chief desire on earth.'

I know she says so ; but I should be
sorry for both her and her daughter-in-law
if it came to pass. Aunt Eleanor will never
take to any other girl as she did to Elsie 
and no more will Lionel.'

Do you think he will never marry, then.''
said Blanche, sitting up on her sofa, and looking
much concerned. ' What a pity ! what a
sad pity ! Nobody to inherit all that money !'

Lionel will never inherit the money,
because Freddy will never die. I do not see
how, humanly speaking, he ever can ; he
takes so much care of himself.'

But then Lionel's children might get it 
or grandchildren,' said Blanche, projecting
her mind into futurity. ' People must think
of those who are to come after them.'

I do not think,' said Rosamond gravely,
that Lionel will marry as long as his mother
lives. He does not care enough about it todo
anything that would annoy her. But if
he lost her  and she looks so ill, Blanche,
that I sometimes think she will not live long;
she is terribly changed within the last year

A LILY AMONG THORNS conclusion

or two  then he would marry directly, for he
is the kind of man who cannot get on without
a woman in the house. And I think he
would choose a good woman, and be happy
as happy as people generally are in this
world ; but he will never forget his first love.'

ti

