CHAPTEE I.

AN EMBASSY.

I CAN make time,' said Mr. Dexter, as he put
some papers into his rusty black bag. ' I will
go down and see Mr. Bassett tomorrow.'

By the morning or the evening mail, sir ? '
'The morning, Mr. Norris, the morning.
I must either get up uncomfortably early at
this end, or arrive uncomfortably late at the
other ; I'll do the first, for then I shall disturb
nobody but myself.'

Shall you stay over Monday, sir ? There's
nothing very pressing, and a few hours in the
country will do you good.'

VOL. I. B

Mr. Dexter looked doubtful, and shook his
head, as he replied that, although there would
be a good deal of business to settle, he thought
it most likely he should get back to town by
Monday night.

Mr. Norris was neither sympathetic nor imaginative,
and the notion that the distress of a
client could injuriously affect the enjoyment of
a run into the country by a busy solicitor, to
whom such a chance seldom offered itself, did
not occur to him. He would have conveyed
news, good or bad, to anybody, with businesslike
propriety and indifference, and he held his
chief to be as sensible a person as himself. But
Mr. Norris was not quite right in this flattering
estimate of Mr. Dexter. The latter had his
weaknesses ; one of them was a strong regard
for the client whom he now proposed to visit
unannounced. As he buttoned his coat, swept
his soft silk handkerchief round his hat to
smooth it, and finally departed, bag in hand,
from his dingy office in Lincoln's Inn, bound for

his modest bachelor's abode in Taviton Street,
there was an uncomfortable sense of oppression
about Mr. Dexter, and a rueful consciousness
that the errand on which he was bound
could by no means be made to assume a holiday-aspect.


His chief being gone, and business over for
the day, Mr. Norris, who was of a spare habit,
narrow-chested, and on bad terms with his digestion,
betook himself to a gymnasium, where
he was in the habit of counteracting the lack of
exercise by dumb-bell practice.

It was on a fine spring morning that Mr.
Dexter left Euston Station for Chester by the
Irish Mail. Railway carriages in the year
1854 were not so large and luxurious as they
are now, and Mr. Dexter was fastidious ; so he
carefully scanned the long line of the train
before he deposited himself, with his back to
the engine, in a corner seat of a first-class
compartment in which but one other place was
bespoken. The corner seat opposite to Mr.

B 2

Dexter 's was occupied by a neatly rolled black
woollen shawl, a book, and a small umbrella.
Mr. Dexter settled his rug, laid his newspapers
beside him, adjusted his travelling cap, and
gave himself up to contemplating the arrivals,
the growing haste, and the general fuss attending
the starting of a train, with the lazy self-approving
complacency that comes of being in
ample time and removed from every cause of
flurry. There was in the scene nothing unfamiliar
to him, but it amused him  the sense
of change is always something to a monotonously
busy man  and time was all but up
ere he observed that the compartment in which
he was seated seemed likely to have no other
occupant. The owner of the shawl, the book,
and the umbrella did not appear, and Mr.
Dexter had just leaned out of the window on
his side to call the attention of the guard to
this fact, when a lady accompanied by a porter
came along the platform at a rapid pace and
approached th carriage. Mr. Dexter drew back

as the porter turned the door handle, and had
just time to think what a sweet-looking girl his
fellow-traveller was, when she stepped up on
the footboard, and saying, ' I beg your pardon,'
snatched up her portable property, and ran
along the train to a compartment lower down.
Mr. Dexter was ridiculously disconcerted by
this trivial incident, and showed his feelings so
plainly in his face, that the intelligent porter
ran on for a few steps, with his hand upon
the door, as the train moved slowly past the
platform, while he said : ' Lady had second-class
ticket, sir ; mistook the carriage.' The
train glided on, Mr. Dexter nodded to the man,
and sat back in his corner with a feeling of
relief.

I'm glad it wasn't I that frightened her
away,' he thought, ' and I hope she has got
into good company.' Then he read his morning
paper, dozed, looked out at the beautiful
country through which he was passing  growing
more beautiful as the sun rose higher and

the gladness of the spring revealed itself 
resolved that he would not think of anything
but the scene before his eyes ; by degrees
found his thoughts getting into the accustomed
office groove, and finally, long before the stop
at Rugby, had dived into his bag, and was
deep in ' business.' The train was within half
an hour of Chester, when Mr. Dexter observed
an ivory paper-knife lying on the floor of the
carriage. He concluded it had fallen out of
the book that had lain upon the opposite seat,
picked it up, and resolved to look for the lady
of whom he had caught so brief a glimpse, on
arriving at the next stopping-place. Probably
she was going on to Holyhead ; if she stepped
out on the platform at Chester he should
recognise her ; if she did not, he would look
for her in the train.

Holding the paper-knife conspicuously, Mr.
Dexter alighted on the platform at Chester,
and immediately perceived that the lady for
whom he was looking had done the same. Ashe

approached, he heard her direct a porter to
take her kiso-aore out of the van.

Pardon me,' said Mr. Dexter, ' I think this
must belong to you. I picked it up in the
carriage you left.'

'- Oh, thank you, it is mine,' said the lady,
taking the paper-knife from his hand, and
placing it between the leaves of her book ;
I was so sorry when I thought I had lost it.'

Then I am very glad to have found it.'
For a confirmed bachelor of fifty, Mr. Dexter's
politeness, without a trace of gallantry in it,
was remarkably well done, as he added : 

Can I be of any use to you ? Have you
reached your destination ? '

Yes, I leave the train here.'

She was, as Mr. Dexter had pronounced
her in his thoughts, very sweet-looking, and
her manner was simple and modest. She had
spoken only a few most ordinary words, she
had smiled, very slightly, with the pleasure of
recovering the valueless article by which she

evidently set some store of association ; these
were small indications, and Mr. Dexter was a
cautious man ; but he was thinking at that
moment, ' If she is as sweet as she looks, what
a nice sort of a girl she would be to have for a
daughter.' The usual bustle was going on,
and as the lady looked about her rather wistfully,
Mr. Dexter repeated his question : 

Can I be of any use to you ? May I see
to your luggage ? '

A porter has gone to get it out of the
train,' she said. ' I am very much obliged to
you, sir, but I am expecting my father. I
thought he would have been on the platform.'

She did not say this fretfully, or with any
of the flurry of a young traveller ; she said it
patiently, and she stood quietly, although the
crowd was now dispersing. The next moment,
the man whom she had sent for her luggage
trundled it up to the spot, and asked what was
to be done with it.

'I  I don't know,' she said, now looking

embarrassed ; ' I had better remain here. Pray
do not wait,' turning to Mr. Dexter ; ' my
father will come or send some one presently.'

'Can't leave luggage on the platform,
Miss, it ain't allowed  take you to the Ladies'
Waiting Eoom,' said the porter. This was
clearly the best thing to be done ; the lady
bowed to Mr. Dexter, and followed the truck
as it went screeching across the footway, in
the direction of the dreary wastes that in those
days awaited travellers detained at the Chester
station.

Mr. Dexter looked after the lady, noting
her erect carriage and her steady, graceful
gait, until he was recalled to a recollection of
his own business by the man who had taken
charge of his valise during this time, and whom
he now directed to procure a carriage for him.

With a good horse,' added Mr. Dexter ; ' I
want to go to Bassett. You will find me in
the Refreshment Eoom.'

Having eaten a biscuit and drunk a glass

of ale  these things he justly regarded as the
only safe resources of the Refreshment Eoom
Mr. Dexter was wending his way to the
vehicle he had ordered, when he again caught
sight of the lady. She was just disappearing
through the exit doors, and she was no longer
alone. A tall, stout, rough-looking man
walked by her side, but he had not relieved
ber of her book or her shawl.

Her father has turned up, then. I am
glad of it ; but I wonder who he is. Not a
gentleman, certainly ; and she is just as certainly
a lady.'

The carriage, a lumbering ' fly,' drawn by
a horse, sturdy and well-to-do, but with an
unroofed look which at that time nobody in
those parts used to mind, was drawn up at the
station gate ; in its rear was a ' round car,'
of the old-established Welsh pattern, with a
dumpy boy in the driving-seat. The youth's
hard cheeks, the red in them as well-defined asa
square of black or white in a chess-board, his

beady black eyes, and harsh black hair, proclaimed
his nationality. Any one would have
called him Jones, or Williams, or both, at a
glance. As a matter of fact his name was
Eeuben Jones. This youth was looking
straight before him at nothing, and stolidly
eating his way through an enormous hunch of
bread and cheese. From neither of these
occupations did he desist while his master,
shoved, rather than handed the young lady
into the uncouth vehicle, and assisted the
railway porter to hoist over the side of the
car a large black box, too wide to go in at the
door, and to set it up on end within. He was
ultimately roused to participation in what was
passing, by his master's giving him a rap on
the head as he asked him ' why the devil he
did not catch hold of the carpet-bag ? ' To this
the boy made a practical but voiceless reply
by cramming the article in question under his
feet, and, having just glanced round to see that
his freight was seated, he ' chucked ' the reins,

and the round car rumbled off over the stones
of Chester.

Dexter, eh ? ' said the owner of the round
car to himself  he had read the name on the
traveller's neat valise, as he passed the carriage.
'Dexter, eh? That's the lawyer  and he's
going to Bassett. Belike there's something
wrong with the Squire

3r  5r  2

About five miles from the ancient city of
Chester, and at the date of this story just that
distance out of railway reach, lies the small and
pretty village of Bassett. Concerning Bassett,
no sanitary horrors had been discovered in
1854 ; it had not been pronounced by the
Inspectors of anything or the Board of anywhere
to be a whited, or rather a red-and-whited,
sepulchre, with disease growing in its garden
plots, and death on tap in its water supply.
It was a passably ignorant village, even judged
by the standard of thirty years ago. What
would be thought of it in these days of the rule

of the School Board, no one who was really
fond of the place would like to picture to his
or her mind's eye. And yet, somehow or other,
Bassett was a happy village in those old times.
There was not a great deal of wealth, but
neither was there very grinding poverty in the
place. The smaller land-owners in the neighbourhood
were of the stay-at-home order, and
a good deal of comfort, arising from continuous
employment, not too badly paid, and supplemented
by personal supervision and kindly help
from the better-off people who knew all about
its needs, was the result of that unfashionable
tendency. It was all wrong, possibly, from the
philosophical and portico-economical point of
view. To the advanced thinker who does not
care for ' the individual,' there would probably
have been discouragement in the stagnant content
of Bassett. In the vicinity of such great
centres of Industry too ! Why, one of the sights
of Bassett was the furnace flames to be seen at
night from the great Desire * Works.' They

were, however, dull creatures at Bassett, agricultural
in their ways  a little too beery,
perhaps, for the ideal  and decided optimists,
without having the slightest idea of what optimism
meant. Perhaps, however, your real
optimist never has any such idea ; for if there
be anything to cure one expeditiously and radically
of that mood it is the analysing of it.

Bassett was given to dissent in religion, but
the living was held by a wealthy man who was
a good deal away for his health, and who gave
largely without distinction of ' church ' or
chapel.' Of the three estates contiguous to the
village of Bassett, the smallest was the most
ancient and long-descended. The Earl of Dee
and Sir Henry Trescoe were very much bigger
men than Squire Bassett, but they were comparatively
modern, whereas it was a moot
question whether a remote Bassett had given
his name to the village that had borne it for
centuries, or the village had given its name
to a family whose origin was lost in the mists

of antiquity. That there never had been a
time when there was not a Bassett of Bassett was
an article of faith in the place ; that there ever
could come a time when some one known as
the Squire ' would not inhabit the old house on
the hill, with its forest of curved and twisted
chimneys, and its countless windows, whose
shining when the sun was westering was ' a
sight,' was an idea too large and fatal to be
grasped by the village mind.

That time had not come yet, at all events, for
the Squire is a well preserved and, for all that
appearances tell the observer, a prosperous
gentleman. We find him on the garden terrace
at the back of his ancient red and white house
to which it would be idle to assign a style
of architecture, for it has been picturesquely
patched ever since it was first built. Whatever
may be the news that Mr. Dexter is bringing
him, no prevision of it is disturbing him now,
as he walks to and fro on the wide red-brick
terrace, with a broad flight of shallow steps

leading to the vast garden, famous throughout
Cheshire for its roses. The Squire looks for a
splendid blow this year. Three men are now at
work about midway in that great space, and a
neat cart, drawn by a donkey who knows and
loves the Squire, and has a good time of it if
ever donkey had, is in attendance for the
removal of weeds. The Squire is what Miss
Nestle, the housekeeper, calls ' that particular
about weeds, he will not have them if it was
ever so '  a phrase which commends itself to
Miss Nestle as of conclusive force and meaning.
It is true that the Squire is very particular about
his garden, and that it is a source of great pleasure
to him. He has just returned from superintending
the operations going on below, and
having a friendly talk with Jacob the donkey,
and he is thinking, while he walks upon the
garden terrace, about a certain letter which he
has to Avrite to-day or tomorrow  it will be as
well to do it to-day.

The letter which Squire Bassett is composing

in his mind, here rejecting a phrase, and
there extenuating an expression, is to be
addressed to his son, John Bassett  commonly,
indeed universally, known as Jack  to whom
he has never in his life said a harsh word, or
indited a severe epistle. The Squire has no
intention of writing severely to Jack at present ;
he means to write gravely, but not severely.
There are reasons why he should do this, but
they have partly originated in his own fault.
His son could not have known what he had
never been told, and, now that he has to be
warned against a tendency to extravagance,
the Squire's warning must not take the form of
blame.

The spring day had brightened to a wondrous
loveliness. A light delicious wind stirred
the tender green leaves, and sent beautiful
ripples over the grass and flower beds ; the
small white clouds  not the piled-up silver
mounds of summer, but the downy feathers
of spring, like angels' wings in the celestial

hVOL.I.

mounting time  floated under the blue dome of
the sky ; the twittering of birds tuning up for
evening lent its indescribable charm to the
scene. The house was built upon the only
eminence in the demesne, a gentle hill, open at
the back and front, but well wooded at either
side ; and how it had come to be set in such a
situation, being of the age it was, no one could
explain ; for the great houses all around were
built in hollows, and only Bassett stood like a
beacon on a hill. The irregular pile of building,
which had received no additions for half a
century, was roomy and commodious, but not
grand, and a great part of the house was unoccupied.
Not for that reason was it untended,
however. Any profane person who should
have ventured to suggest ' flue ' in the unused
rooms, or to suppose it would take some time
to get them ready ' for staying company,' would
have received a lesson from Miss Nestle such ashe
must have had a short memory indeed to
forget. The favourite rooms of the solitary

master of the house  for the Squire and his son
were alone in the world, and Jack had been
but little at home lately  were those that
opened on the garden terrace ; the great
drawing-rooms he rarely visited and never
used. In the hall or saloon stood a billiard-table
with bulky brass-adorned legs, uncovered
only when Jack came home and ' turned the
house out of windows,' as Miss Nestle, who
perfectly worshipped him, expressed it. Behind
the saloon lay the garden-terrace rooms.

The pleasantness of these was the Squire's
reading and writing room. He would have
called the apartment his library, only that todo
so would have grieved Miss Is'estle to the
soul ; for was not the real library, the old
library, the family library, lined with locked
bookcases containing innumerable books, correctly
situated alongside of the great diningroom
on the left of the saloon, and opposite to
the drawing-rooms on the right? And was it
not the joy and solace of Miss Nestle's existence

c 2

that in this portion of the house at least everything
had its proper place, and was always
kept in it ?

So that the Squire had the books he wanted
about him, and the books he did not want were
safe in their shelves, he did not care what the
room in which he chiefly lived was called. It
was light, lofty, pleasant, v/ith old-fashioned
furniture, such as we were wont to despise 'in the
days that were earlier ' of this century, but are
content to pay smart prices for in our own.
The lofty windows were hung with curtains of
crimson satin damask that in its time had been
gorgeous, and still was rich, but its full tint had
faded to a subdued aspect that went well with
the sombre carpet and the dark oak furniture.
There were no nicknames in the Squire's
favourite room. A bronze timepiece, flanked
by candelabra of classical, design, ornamented
the high, narrow white marble mantelpiece
with fluted jambs inlaid with red, and a florid
frontal of allegorical sculpture. There were

books everywhere, not only where they ought,
but where Miss Nestle held that they ought not,
to be  on this point she carried on a covert
warfare with the Squire  a number of maps,
several portfolios of engravings, and on the
large writing-table, placed near the glass door
opening on the terrace, there invariably stood
a bowl  a rich and rare specimen of the old
Crown Derby that is the cheerfulness of china
filled with freshly cut flowers. If a man's
character is to be told by his surroundings,
Squire Bassett was one whose tastes were at
once studious and simple : those of a scholar
and a gentleman.

Turning from his dwelling to his external
self, let us see what is the aspect of this Squire
Bassett, who, be his future what it may, will
never again be quite the same as he who
walks to and fro in a scene which might form a
nook in the earthly paradise of any not altogether
unreasonable dreams, on this day, so
radiant with the beauty and poetical with the

promise of the spring. Good or evil, or good
and evil, may be before the Squire ; but nevermore
the actual condition of things. That is
passing away, even as he pauses to observe the
beautiful light upon the spread tail of a gorgeous
peacock waiting for him to come and
scratch its glistening green and purple poll,
before it mincingly descends the steps, and
walks on the velvet sward, like a court lady
trailing a bedizened train.

The Squire is a slenderly built, erect, spare
man ; he carries his fifty years easily. His
movements are free, his tread is light, although
it is slow ; his eyes are bright, although the
lines under them and the creases in the upper
eyelids are deep, and they retain their colour to
a degree very rare at his age. That colour is
the clear, somewhat cold, fearless blue that
lends to the eyes of a man the most masterful
language ever spoken without words. His face
is thin, finely formed, handsomer than when it
was younger ; its expression is thoughtful,

absent ; that of a man who is accustomed to be
much alone, and apt to awake with some discomfiture
to the consciousness that he is not
always so. His smile is rare, but sweet, seldom
passing the eyes, but playing pleasantly in them.
The Squire wears a full beard, the brown in it
is streaked with grey, as his hair, which is very
fine, is also. A capable, amiable man, young
in all ways for his age : such would be the
impression made by Squire Bassett to-day upon
any attentive observer.

CHAPTEE II.

MR. DEXTER's business.

The afternoon is wearing away, when the Squire
looks at his watch and says to himself: ' I must
go and write that letter.' As he turns in from
the terrace through the glass door of the book-room,
his quick ear catches the sound of wheels
in the avenue. Then comes the clang of the
door-bell, and presently Mr. Dexter is announced.


Surprise, but no alarm, is in the Squire's
face as he warmly welcomes his friend. This
lasts, however, only a moment, for Mr. Dexter's
is an expressive countenance. Then the Squire,
who has turned pale, says : ' You have come
to tell me bad news. Dexter  Is it, is it
Jack?'

No, no ; there's nothing wrong with your
son.'

'Thank God! What is it, then?' His
colour has come back, and his voice is clear.

Only business ; but as it is complicated, and
this is the end of the week, I thought I would
rather come and talk it over with you.'

That was just like you, Dexter. You have
to deal me a blow of some kind, and you come
to help me to bear it. Another chapter in the
history of many years, old friend. And now '
the Squire laid his hand on Mr. Dexter's left
shoulder, and, standing very upright, looked
him straight in the face  ' is it the end of that
other old story ? '

No, no, not at all. I have heard nothing
whatever. My errand is, in one sense, more
serious than anything I could have to tell you
on that score. In a word, Squire, we have lost
our case.'

Indeed ! That's bad.'

The Squire gently pushed Mr. Dexter into a

chair and took a seat himself with great composure.
Nevertheless he had said the exact
truth  his friend had dealt him a blow: different
men have, however, different ways, not
only of bearing, but of estimating blows.

It is very bad. I have been afraid of this
result for some time ; it is now certain.'

I suppose,' said the Squire, with a smile,
we leave the Court without the slightest imputation
on our character ? '

Of course, of course. Indeed, every one
concerned all round is proved to have acted
from the most exemplary motives, although, I
am bound to admit, with stupendous indifference
to the technicalities of the Law of Trusts.
Never was there a more vexatious case, within
my knowledge, or more serious results from the
very best intentions.'

The Squire's face grew more grave while
Mr. Dexter was speaking, and he fixed his
eyes moodily upon the ground.

I ought to have been better prepared in

every way to meet this issue,' he said, after
a short pause ; ' it is one of the evils of
such long-drawn suspense that one grows careless
and over-bold. However,' he roused himself,
and again he smiled, ' we can discuss all this
by-and-by, when you have rested and refreshed
yourself. I will take you to your room now.'

I hope Miss Nestle will forgive me for
arriving in this unceremonious fashion, without
notice.'

She would be less likely to forgive you for
supposing it could make any difference whether
you gave a week's notice, or arrived as you have
done. Miss Nestle's ready guest-chamber is as
much of an institution as Napoleon's roast fowl,
or George Iii's cherry tart.'

Thus reassuring his guest, the Squire conducted
him to a room situated above that in
which he had received him, and remarking that
he should be found in the book-room, and that
dinner hour was half-past six, withdrew.

The quarters assigned to Mr. Dexter amply

justified the confidence with which the Squire
had taken his guest to them without asking
a question. They consisted of a bedroom and
dressing-room, both commanding the garden
view ; well lighted, airy rooms, in such perfect
order as might have daunted the soul of the
entities of men, and pervaded by the delicious
odour of lavender and rosemary. On a certain
day in the early spring of each year. Miss Nestle
changed her bedrooms,' that is, their draperies ;
tasselled snow-white dimity window-hangings,
bed curtains, coverlets, and ' furniture ' took the
place of the winter perishing, which, though
very comfortable, was not aesthetic, being indeed
that combination of drab moreen with black
stamped-velvet bordering, which was perhaps
the ugliest ' composition ' ever achieved by the
upholstery of the past. Mr. Dexter had come
in for the dimity and missed the moreen, and,
though he was troubled, he could enjoy the delightful
freshness of the room, the beauty of the
terrace and garden, and that of the woodland



that inclosed them. After Lincoln's Inn and
Taviton Street these things could hardly fail to
please, no matter how much might be amiss
with other people's affairs, or, indeed, with one's
own, short of any of those overwhelming griefs
that reduce all places under the sun to an equal
monotony of misery.

Mr. Dexter was in no hurry to rejoin his
host. The inevitable blow had been dealt ; it
would be well that the Squire should have time
to recover from it, perhaps even to relax in
solitude the restraint that he had put upon himself
in his manner of receiving it. There was a
great deal to talk over and arrange, but they
would have time for that to-night, and all tomorrow.
So Mr. Dexter changed his travelling
suit for the correct evening clothes of the
period, in a slow and deliberate manner, with
many pauses to look out of window, and a few
to inspect the art ornaments over the mantelpiece
and on the walls. These also were of an
old-fashioned kind, and included specimens of

sampler work in fine silks and hair, such as are
hardly to be seen now except in museums.

Notwithstanding his delay and desultoriness,
Mr. Dexter 's mind was not in reality straying
from the business that had brought him to
Bassett. He was going over all the points
which he meant to make, when the serious
hour of consultation should have struck, and
weighing the for and against of a certain hne
of suggestion that had presented itself to him
during his journey. It was clear that the suggestion
of which he was thinking would have
to be offered or reserved, according to whether
he should find the Squire amenable to his (Mr.
Dexter's) view of the situation and its requirements,
or bent upon one of his own which
might differ widely from that of his legal
adviser. The sun went down with great pomp
while Mr. Dexter was making his toilet and his
reflections, and when he entered the book-room
he found another of Miss Nestle's inexorable
laws in operation. Shutters were closed, curtains



were drawn, candles were lighted, and a
small bright fire of well-seasoned wood cut into
well-proportioned logs was burning on the
hearth, guarded by a brazen rail, and dogs
with the ever-reflective head and firmly-posed
paws of a pair of sphinxes.

No half-lights for me,' Miss Nestle would
say ; ' they're only excuses for idling, and if
you want to eat and drink, nothing can be
more uncomfortable.' Happily, the Squire was
also of Miss Nestle's opinion.

By tacit consent Mr. Bassett and his guest
made no reference to the matter in the minds
of both until they had dined : not in the large
and necessarily dreary room on the left of the
saloon  it was a world too wide for two elderly
gentlemen  but in a snug apartment adjoining
the book-room, and forming the last of the
Squire's ' own ' suite on the garden terrace.

If the hard-to-be-defined quality of true-baseness
includes the faculty of putting other
people at their ease, however little one's own

mood may resemble that pleasant state, Squire
Bassett was undeniably of the number of the
true-blue. He was an attentive host, and a
pleasant talker ; a man of the world, notwithstanding
the voluntary remoteness of his ordinary
life from centres of action ; one to whom
no subjects of general interest were unfamiliar.
He was not only a good talker, he was also a
good listener ; one who gave his interlocutor
a fair chance, treating his opinions with respect,
even when they were most antagonistic, and
readily receiving ideas, which he would frequently
restore to their originator enriched by
his own knowledge, and adorned by his own
taste.

It was neither purely good manners nor
the least touch of dissimulation that made the
Squire wear an untroubled aspect while eating
a tolerably good dinner himself, and seeing that
his friend ate a verj good one: it was the
simple courageousness of his nature.

When they had dined, the friends returned

to the workroom, and there, in a scene which
would have conveyed to a casual observer
an impression of tranquillity, permanence, ease
without vulgar luxury, and entire security,
they discussed in all its bearings a misfortune
whose first and immediate result must be the
vanishing away of all this.

With the cause and progress of the lawsuit
that had been for years a never-removed
though only intermittently irritating source of
trouble and anxiety to Squire Bassett, this story
has nothing to do. The affair had been, in
the beginning, one of trust, but it had accepted
so many extraneous matters, that it would have
puzzled all the parties to it, and the Squire in
particular, to define it in its present and final
shape. It might have served as a type for the
celebrated suit of Jaundice and Jaundice iu
complication, if not in duration ; but now this
was all over; the long-delayed decision had
been arrived at with a rush in the end. The
clear conviction of every one concerned, that

VOL. I. 1)

it was very hard, and that the losing side 
Squire Bassett  had never had any intention
of doing the smallest wrong in his action on
behalf of the winning party many years before,
had exercised no influence upon the event.

Mr. Dexter arranged his papers on the
table before him, and went into the subject
with regularity and method, having admitted
that the case had ' doubled upon him ' in an
unexpected and surprising way. He earnestly
represented to his client that the decision was
not to be reversed, and any future action or
appeal would only throw away more good
money after the large sums which had already
followed the bad money that was the root of
the matter.

The Squire listened with intelligent patience,
and read, or at least looked at, a number of
papers handed to him in succession by Mr.
Dexter. He was docile, for he knew that the
business habits of his trusty friend would not
be content with any smaller concession. When

he Lad read the last of these depressing but
convincing documents, he pushed his hair off
his forehead with a sigh of relief, and expressed
himself as entirely ' satisfied.' This was an odd
word to use, but Mr. Dexter let it pass, and
replaced the papers in his bag with a melancholy
air.

This defeat means something very like
ruin. Dexter,' said the Squire, as he turned
from the table and the lights, and, bending
forward with a slight shiver, spread his hands
out to catch the warmth of the wood fire.
You know all concerning me and my affairs
so thoroughly, I do not need to tell you that.
The sum to be refunded, and the costs of these
later proceedings, will oblige me to begin allover
again on a very small scale. Well, so be
it ; my time will not be very long, my wants
need not be very many ; such of my tastes as
are costly must be given up. Perhaps all that
I value most in my own life and condition will
be found to suffer but little change. We shall

see about that when we go into figures tomorrow.
But, Dexter'  here the Squire
turned his head sharply round, with a look of
pain, towards Mr. Dexter at the table  'the
pinch of it is  Jack ! '

Yes, I thought so. That has been very
much on my mind. Yes,' repeated Mr. Dexter,
with the same characteristic short shake of the
head that had registered his silent dissent from
Mr. Norris's remark upon the advantages of a
run in the country ; ' the pinch of it undoubtedly
is your son.'

Such a disappointment as the interruption,
indeed the entire abandonment, of his proposed
career, just at this time too, when what these
young fellows call " chances " are so likely to
turn up, will have a bad effect on Jack.'

He has not been prepared for such a
termination to the suit, then ? '

He has known but little about it, and he
has, I fancy, thought much less. I dare say I
have not been wise, but I have always wanted

to keep that soul-killer, worry, out of the boy's
way. One does so long to let them have their
youth all that youth ought to be  especially if
one's own has left a good deal to be desired in
more ways than one. Latterly I have begun
to doubt the prudence of this, and to think
that the " forewarned, forearmed " theory might
have been a sounder one to act on in Jack's
case. And now I know it would. He will
be terribly hard hit. There is an immovable
tenacity about him which may be a very
valuable quality, but it will make this all the
more hard for him to bear.'

Mr. Dexter looked grave He could not
honestly say that he did think the Squire had
been wise in his method of treating the young
gentleman, whose character he took to be self-willed
and obstinate  for that was how he
interpreted the ' valuable quality ' of which
Jack's father was plainly afraid. So he asked
a not strictly relevant question : 

Have you recent news of him ? '

I have '  again the Squire turned sharply
towards the speaker, with a look of pain 
and not the best news. He has been working
well  that's all right  but he has taken
an extravagant turn, and, in fact, I have
been troubled in mind of late about this very-thing.'


He will have to pull up now,' said the
lawyer.

The morning hymn of the birds awoke Mr.
Dexter on the following morning earlier than
he was accustomed to be aroused by the
familiar sounds of life in Taviton Street. He
dressed expeditiously, and went out on the
garden-terrace to enjoy the freshness and
beauty of the scene. The added stillness of
the day of rest lent it a new charm, and,
although everything had been awake long
before the birds' matins had aroused him, Mr.
Dexter had all the sense of energy, virtue,
and sharpened observation that we derive
from the consciousness that we are about

when nobody else is stirring, and the belief
that we are finding nature at her morning
toilet.

Mr. Dexter descended into the garden, and
had roamed about it for some time before the
Squire came out to look for him. When at
length he was joined by the owner of all the
peaceful loveliness that brought such welcome
refreshment to the soul of the visitor, Mr.
Dexter was about to give expression to his
pleasure ; but it was smitten into silence by the
remembrance of the sentence of loss and change
passed upon that fair possession.

The Squire had slept but little, nevertheless
he met the eye of the morning that had risen to
find him so different from what he had been
yesterday, with strength and serenity, and the
grave lines in his face were not those of repining.
No trouble, he thought, was unbearable
that had not any element of self-reproach in it ;
in his great trouble there was none. The pair
of friends went into the house together ; they

found their breakfast ready, and a batch of
newspapers and letters on the table.

From Jack said the Squire, taking up a
letter, and handing a newspaper to his guest.

The letter consisted of a few lines, by
which Squire Bassett's son informed him that
he expected to get home by the end of the
week ; and that the ' bigwigs ' were quite satisfied
with him. The meaning of this was that
Jack Bassett had passed with credit the Sandhurst
examination. This was not a deed of any
great emprize in pre Crimean days ; but it
meant ' all they knew ' at that time, in which,
nevertheless some good soldiers were made.
The Squire was pleased with the news, but it was
with a rueful smile that he handed over Jack's
letter for Mr. Dexter 's perusal, and said : 

He will be terribly cut up when he finds all
this has to go for nothing. I cannot think how
I shall answer his letter. It will be so hard to
tell him that he must give up his hopes of being
a Light Dragoon.'

I suppose that would mean a good deal of
money both at the start and afterwards. You
know how profound is my ignorance of military
matters ; I have only a general notion that a
commission in a cavalry regiment is a whistle
for which a big fancy price has to be paid.'

Jack will have to give up all idea of it. I
felt very uncomfortable yesterday at having to
find fault with him about some thoughtless and
foolish things that he has been doing recently ;
but I had made up my mind to write to him.
I have too long allowed my besetting sin, procrastination,
to get the better of me; and now,
a harder task lies before me.'

Don't write to him at all. Let him come
home, and then tell him about it. He is a
manly young fellow, though an only son, and,
I have no doubt, a spoilt child : depend upon
it, he will take it well A few days' ignorance
on his part will not matter, and you will have
had time to think over several alternatives to
the light cavalry for him.'

'Very true,' assented the Squire, relieved
by this suggestion ; ' it will be, as you say, ever
so much better that he and I should talk things
over. But as for alternatives, I cannot see even
one. He has never thought qf himself, and I
have never thought of him, as anything but a
soldier.'

What vvould he say to the law ? '

He would say "No." Jack would never
make a lawyer.'

To farming, then ? '

Ah, that I cannot say. I have never
known him to take an interest in anything of
the kind. He is very good friends with all the
people about ; but I fancy that is on the ground
of sporting affinities. Besides, where is the
farm to be found, and the capital ? '

'Hem,' said Mr. Dexter, shaking his head,
there are many difficulties in your way ; and
yet this is not the most imminent or pressing.'

At this point the conversation was interrupted
by breakfast, and after that the friends

]parted, severally to fulfil the devotional duties
of the day. Squire Bassett belonged to the
Eoman Catholic Church, as every Bassett had
always belonged to it, through all the fortunes
of that Church, good, bad, or, as they were
just then, middling. Mr. Dexter was a member
of the Church of England, and although not
strict in his attendance at public worship in
London, where nobody knows and nobody cares
whether anybody else goes to church, or practises
' the religion of the blue sky ' at home
(the religion of the blue sky was very much
the fashion in those days), he would not on any
account remain away from divine service in the
country. It was the correct thing to go to
church ; everybody did it ; he did not at all dislike
conforming to the custom, and the sacred
edifice looked pretty in its green old garments
of ivy, on the very edge of the Squire's park.

The church was built on land which formed
a portion of Sir Henry Trescoe's estate ; but
it was accessible from the Bassett grounds

without resort being had to the high road.
Mr. Dexter took the path across the fields. He
was in ample time ; the orderly and, for the
size of the village, numerous, congregation was
not more than half assembled. As Mr. Dexter
observed its members coming in, his attention
was caught by two persons who entered the
church by a side door, but separated immediately,
one entering a pew just behind that in
which Mr. Dexter was seated, while the other
walked down the aisle, and ascended the stairs
leading to the uncurtained organ gallery. The
elder of the two was a delicate but good-looking
woman, about thirty years of age and of a subdued
and timid aspect. There was nothing in
her appearance to raise her above the commonplace.
If she had come into the church alone,
and Mr. Dexter had observed her at all, he
would hardly have thought of her as a ' lady ' ;
but her younger companion was the undeniable
lady ' of Mr. Dexter 's little adventure of the
preceding day, the owner of the ivory paperknife.

She was as plainly dressed as she had
been on that occasion, and her erect graceful
carriage, the firm pose of her head, and her
steady, elegant gait were even more conspicuous.
Her ill-assorted male companion of yesterday,
presumably her father, was not present.

The pew in which Mr. Dexter was placed
commanded a distinct view of the organ-gallery,
and he observed that the young lady took her
place with a little air of authority, which was
recognised by a score of small boys cleanly and
Sabbatical of aspect.

I hope she sings,' said Mr. Dexter to himself
; ' she looks as if she ought to sing well.'

A few minutes set Mr. Dexter 's mind at
rest upon this point. The organist came in,
and took his seat ; the number of the congregation
was accomplished ; the officiating clergyman
made his appearance in the reading-desk ;
a bald clerk took possession of the mean little
box just beneath it, with only his head showing
above the ledge, and the service began with

the singing of a psalm, a fashion that in those
days prevailed in churches which were not
high;

The psalm was that grand one, happily
mated with noble and simple music, which
begins with the verse : 

O God ! our help in ages past :

Our hope for years to come !
Our shelter from the stormy blast ;

And our eternal home !

The organ was a good one, and the choir was
well-trained. The music, although the untaught
congregation joined in the singing, was
solemn and impressive, and the voice which
Mr. Dexter had hoped, indeed expected, to
hear, mingled with and rose above it, in pure,
assured, thrilling melody, that went straight to
the heart of the unemotional lawyer, and
moistened this eyelids with unconscious tears.
He loved music, but he seldom indulged his
only artistic taste. Music did not naturally
come in his way ; he did not go out of his way
to look for it ; he was both too busy and too

lonely to do so. There are lives at once so
full and so solitary, that the impulse to seek
recreation is choked in them. Mr. Dexter's
life was one of these, and this unknown young
lady's singing made him suddenly aware of
the fact, even while it also lifted him for the
moment into the higher sphere of feeling to
which the strain belonged. The ease with
which the rich swelling notes were produced
was as remarkable as their purity, and the perfect
enunciation of the words of the psalm came
to Mr. Dexter's ear as if the singer only were
uttering them. As the first surprise of this
delightful music subsided into an intense enjoyment
of it, he looked around to see whether
other people were affected by it as he was ;
but there was no sympathetic pleasure to be
read in any countenance. The ' good willing '
among the congregation  meaning the great
majority were singing away for themselves,
intent on their hymn-books ; no eyes were
raised to the organ-loft. Alien, as the psalm

ceased, Mr. Dexter glanced at the elder lady
who had come into the church with the sweet
singer, he saw that she also was wholly unaffected
by the music.

The young lady belongs to the village, and
they are used to this sort of thing,' was Mr.
Dexter's reflection, as he accepted a prayer-book
offered to him, with a nudge, by his next
neighbour, and wondered how many psalms
were considered the correct thing for Morning
Service at Bassett.

Twice again the lawyer enjoyed ' the rapture
of sweet sound,' and when the service
ended he was in no hurry to leave the church,
but retained his place until the little choir had
dispersed, and the singer, who had occupied
more of Mr. Dexter's attention than any young
lady, not a client, had been favoured with for
the last ten years of his life, came down from
the gallery and joined her companion. They
left the church by the door that had admitted
them, and Mr. Dexter followed them into the

churchyard. A flagged passage led to the gate,
and there a few groups were gathered, exchanging
greetings, not too much prolonged,
for dinner hour at Bassett came pretty close
upon church. The fair singer and her friend
were detained by some female neighbours, and
as Mr. Dexter passed close by them the young
lady looked round, and recognised him, after a
moment's uncertainty, with a bow. He responded
by raising his hat with respect as deep
as ever he had shown to his most important
lady-client. Mr. Dexter knew very little about
saints, and, naturally, nothing at all about
angels : nevertheless, as he struck into the path
across the fields, he said to himself, with as
much ' cock-sureness ' as if he had been brought
up in the society of both : ' That girl looks like
a saint, and sings like an angel. I wonder who
she is ? '

'Has Mr. Bassett come in from church,
Robert ? ' asked Mr. Dexter of the servant who
had admitted him, as he paused in the hall to

VOL. I. E

substitute a soft hat for the regulation head-covering.


'Yes, sir, the Squire 's been in some
time

He is in the garden, I suppose, or on the
terrace ? '

No, sir ; the Squire 's in the book-room.
Farmer Wynn is with him.'

Mr. Dexter made his way to the garden
terrace, and there established himself with a
newspaper to await the departure of Farmer
Wynn, and the arrival of luncheon. There
was not much in the newspaper, except the
usual dissertation upon the aspect of affairs in
the East. Mr. Dexter was not acutely political
; the day was very fine, the scene which
lay before him was sufficiently lovely to induce
any man not intent on sporting  events ' to relinquish
his newspaper in favour of the face of
nature. The voice of the fair singer lingered
in the lawyer's ear. He was just arranging in
his mind the terms which he should employ in

describing her to Squire Bassett, so as to
discover whether she was known to him, when
two persons emerged from the glass door that
opened from the book-room upon the terrace,
and walked away towards the opposite end.
One of these was Squire Bassett ; the other was
the man, clearly not a gentleman, whom Mr.
Dexter had seen on the previous day at the
Chester railway station, and whom he had
taken to be the father of the fair unknown.
Mr. Bassett accompanied his visitor to the end
of the terrace ; the latter turned off in the
same direction taken by Mr. Dexter in the
morning, and the Squire came slowly back
along the line of the house. His face wore a
pondering expression, and Mr. Dexter glanced
curiously at him.

It's nearly time for luncheon,' said the
Squire, looking at his watch. ' You are only
just in, I suppose. What do you think of
Little Bassett Church ? '

Mr. Dexter praised the sacred edifice. It

E 2

was not the Squire's * own,' but he took a pride
in everything that belonged to Bassett.

Had you a good sermon ? Mr. Colvin is
considered a fair preacher, I believe.'

I don't think I'm a judge of sermons,
but I can tell you that Little Bassett maybe
proud of its organ, its choir, and its
psalmody. I never heard a finer voice or more
beautiful singing than I have heard this morning
in the church there. Oddly enough, I recognised
the singer. She came down in the
train with me yesterday, and she was joined at
Chester by the  person '  (Mr. Dexter had been
a-bout to say ' the gentleman,' but didn't) ' who
has just left you.'

What, Farmer Wynn ? Oh yes, it was his
daughter, no doubt. I believe she sings very
well ; she was brought up in London by her
mother's sister. She has not been down here
long. Wynn mentioned it.'

She does not take after her father ; he
struck me as a coarse sort of fellow.' Mr.

Dexter had a disagreeable remembrance of
the man's rough and careless manner to the
girl.

Wynn is that ; but a shrewd, capable man.
His daughter has been very little at the farm ;
I don't think I have ever seen her since she
was a child ; but Miss Nestle holds her in some
favour, and has told me wonders of her singing.
There's the gong. By the bye, it's an
odd thing  the girl's mother must have had a
prevision : the name of Wynn's daughter is
Mavis.'

Mavis ? '

Yes. That means a thrush, you know.'

I did not know. A pretty name, and uncommon.
She is a singing bird with a fortune
in her throat, if ever there was one.'

It is to be hoped that no one will help her
to the discovery,' said the Squire, shortly.

As they passed through the book-room, Mr.
Bassett paused at a shelf closely packed with
works of travel and discovery, and took down

a few volumes. They all had reference to the
Australasian world.

Wynn came up to ask me to lend him
some books,' the Squire explained ; ' he has a
brother in Victoria  at Melbourne, I believe 
and he has taken a fancy to know something
about the country.'

The afternoon and evening of that day
passed quietly away. In all the converse
between the friends, on the business that had
brought Mr. Dexter to Bassett, the lawyer was
the more moved and the more perplexed of
the two. Mr. Dexter was to leave Bassett
on the Monday morning at an hour which
would render it impossible to resume discussion
with the Squire. Whatever he wanted, or had
made up his mind to say, must be said before
they parted for the night. Now there was one
thing that Mr. Dexter did want to say to the
Squire ; one thing which he had turned over
and over again in his imagination, putting it
into a variety of potential phrases. Nevertheless,

the limit of their time had been reached,
and this one thing remained unsaid. Mr.
Dexter knew perfectly well that none of his
prepared potential phrases would now get themselves
uttered ; but when the formal last words
had been spoken, he added : 

I must say one word more to you. There
is a way by which all this can be avoided.
Think well of it, and let me take that way 
for your son's sake.'

A spasm of pain crossed the Squire's face ;
an angry light gleamed for one moment inhis
still clear blue eyes  a light which would not
have been good to see in his youth  but he
resolutely conquered the emotion that had
spoken by these rebellious signs, and he
answered calmly : 

No thinking, my dear Dexter, could induce
me to adopt that way. Once more, goodnight.'


CHAPTEE III.

COUNSELS OF THE NIGHT.

Squire Bassett's days were well filled ; he
was no idler or dreamer ; Ms way of life
was orderly. His correspondence was punctually
maintained ; the business of his estate
was punctually discharged. The Squire's
shortcomings occurred in the order of his
social duties. He was liked and respected by
his tenants and his poorer neighbours, but he
was not quite so popular with those of his own
class, and he was perhaps a little too indifferent
to that fact. A man of station and even
moderate wealth, who lives in the country, and
does not care for either politics or sport, is
an anomalous being. Squire Bassett was an
instance of this anomaly. The influence of his

religion on his mind kept lira out of active
politics, in which there was little place, thirty-years
ago, for an English gentleman who was
also a devout and consistent Eoman Catholic,
and whose political instincts were Conservative,
although he could not fail to perceive that
justice and the right were coming to professors
of his faith in Great Britain and Ireland from
the Liberal side exclusively. Besides, there
was a strong streak of indolence in him, and
this had probably as much to do with Squire
Basse tt's abstention from politics, as his sincere
conviction of his own insignificance, and his
contented reflection that the business of the
nation was the affair of ' bigger ' men than he.
His attitude towards the present was that of
a quietly observant, unexcited, but not uninterested
spectator ; his student tastes led him
to a more close and intimate communion with
the past. There was no Irish blood in Squire
Bassett's veins, yet he possessed one characteristic
that has been described as a special note

of the Irish temperament : the tendency to
reconstruct the past in imagination, to hive in
thought with the past by preference. He was
no receive ; he went through the ordinary
routine of social intercourse, in a not very
lively part of the country, with propriety ; but
heartiness was wanting, and the Squire, when
in company, certainly did convey the idea of
having come out of himself only to diminish
the general ease in his vicinity. He was not
really unsympathetic, and his benevolence was
as practical as it was unostentatious ; but it
was necessary to arouse his attention in order
to engage it, and absence of mind, hardly
judged by those whose lives are on the surface,
but surely a pardonable offence in the case
of persons whose lives are for the most part
solitary, militated against Mr. Bassett's popularity.


That a man who is no sportsman has no
real right to live anywhere, but more especially
to live near Am, is the conviction of the man

who is all sportsman, and he more or less
acknowledges it according to his degree of
civilisation. Bassett was situated in a country
in which hunting, fishing, and shooting were to
be had under conditions favourable enough to
satisfy the most exacting ; but the Squire was
deeply ' suspect ' on all these points. Not that
he had theories ; he did not condemn his
neighbours as immoral, or even as cruel, in
their tastes and pursuits; he simply did not
like ' sport.' He tolerated the dogs, the guns,
and the rods which came in his way and on
his land in their successive seasons, very much
as he tolerated Italian-operatic singing by
amateurs, or the playing of practical jokes in
country-houses on rainy days. He was as
incapable of understanding how hunting, shooting,
and fishing could be found engrossing by
rational beings, as he was of entering into the
humour of practical jokes, but he was aware
that he was in the minority ; and so he was
always polite in reference to those topics which

most effectually fire the breast in 'country
parts.' At the same time he was so plainly
indifferent that he was given credit for thinly
veiled contempt. This was unjust to Squire
Bassett : his was not a contemptuous nature at
all ; he did not think too highly of himself or
too meanly of his neighbour ; he was simply
indolent, outside of his especial tastes. Indifference
on points of that kind, however, rarely
fails to cause dislike as surely as opposition
excites a similar sentiment.

Squire Bassett's life had been for many years
an uneventful one ; he had held the ordering of
it in his own hands, with freedom such as rarely
belongs to a man who is weighted by any ties at
all, and is not of a disposition to ignore or defy
them. Such strength of character as was in
him was latent ; there had been no call for the
putting forth of it in the calm, externally monotonous
time that had elapsed since he succeeded
his father at Bassett, and took up his residence
there, with a motherless little boy of four years

old as his only companion. During all those
years he had no history of the sort that those
who run may read. What were the objects for
which this lonely man, who had so little share
in the lives of those around him, really cared ?
They were his Faith, his son, his books, his
dependents, his flower-garden, and everything
animate and inanimate within the old place.

He had been growing old contentedly
enough ; things had been well with him ; there
had been only Jack to think about, and his
thoughts of Jack had been untroubled until
quite of late. The road that lay before him to
the bottom of the hill of life had seemed to be
smooth, and fenced about with ease, leisure, and
all old customs, until the unseen end of it, and
the grateful rest.

That long unbroken peace was ended now.
The sweet spring day that had brought the news
to the Squire which meant calamity even to him,
who looked upon what others would call ruin
with a calmer gaze than most men could have

turned upon that stem and ugly visitant, was the
beginning of a new era, of a fresh track in the
journey downhill.

It was neither pride nor stoicism that had
kept the Squire up to the point of calm and
dignified acceptance of his misfortune, in the
presence of his friend. He was incapable of
pretence ; the courage he had manifested after
the first fear that harm had come to his son
passed away, leaving his heart light, was simple
and genuine. But the courage with which we
bear our wounds is not the measure of their
depth or their severity.

Squire Bassett, like many men who live for
the most part alone, was in the habit of sitting
up late. The tranquil and regular occupation
of his days was apt to leave him with a sense
that there was something special to which he
must turn his attention when his rarely disturbed
leisure should be more entirely secure.
The small hours generally found him occupied
with a chosen volume carried away from the

book-room, and seated in an ancient chintz-covered
chair, roomy enough to have accommodated
the Chinese giant, by the side of a wood
fire, which was always kept up in his bedroom
except in the dog-days.

The small hours found Squire Bassett there,
and thus  long after he and Mr. Dexter had
parted for the night, but the book, which from
mere force of habit he had carried to his
bedroom, had fallen unheeded on the floor.
What had the hours brought to him ? What
sharp-pointed arrows, true of aim, flying only
he knew whence, had pierced the steady target
of his breast in the night watches .

That Squire Bassett should not have long
foreseen all the results of such a termination to
the lawsuit, that there should have been anything
left to surprise him withal may be absurd,
to the minds of those who are not accustomed
to take into practical account the inconsistency
of men and women, and the ease with which we
get into the habit of ignoring all things unpleasant,

and hoping all things pleasant, where
we ourselves are concerned. At any rate, and
however absurd the fact, it was a fact that
Squire Bassett had of late got out of the way of
thinking about the suit.

The last words spoken between Mr. Dexter
and himself had no place in the present cogitations
of the Squire. Those last words he
resolutely put away from him, as he had
put away the unnamed suggestion they conveyed,
taking no account of them in the argument
he was holding with himself. In that
solitary dispute, as throughout the discussion
that had taken place between himself and
Mr. Dexter, his son was the chief object before
his mind, the great consideration outweighing
every other in the forming of a resolution which
on that day had taken a new aspect not yet to
be disclosed to his friend.

Memory was busy with the grave, composed,
fine-looking man  he was only middle-aged a
day or two ago ; now they would soon begin to
call him old  as busy as were vain regret and

reluctance. It would be with a desperate
wrench that he should tear himself away from
Bassett ; and yet, if the place of his forefathers
was to be preserved to his son in the future, it
must be given up now. Every resource at his
command would be strained to the uttermost.
It would need careful management to secure a
provision for Jack, while the poor disappointed
young fellow should be making up his mind
about a profession other than that of which
he must needs abandon the hope, and for himself
an income on which he should be able
to live in the complete retirement that would
have no terrors for him. Small liabilities,
which had never troubled him previously, recurred
to his mind now ; these would mount
up when the day of peremptory settling came.
It would be a clean sweep indeed. Poor Jack !
From every wandering excursion into the past,
from every glance projected into the future, the
Squire returned, with a sigh, to murmur those
words.

VOL. I. P

His brave and cheerful statement of his own
case to Mr. Dexter was quite genuine ; but
when his friend's face and voice were removed,
his heart sank with a womanish dread about
]his son. Compassion, such as mothers feel for
the sorrow and disappointment of youth, came
in a strong tide into the heart of this lonely
man, whose only son, the pride and delight of
this life, its motive and its meaning, had been
motherless from his early childhood.

What if this great trouble should spoil the
boy's kindly, joyous, hopeful nature ? What if
Jack should bear it badly, and the seeds of
bitterness be planted in him . What if his son
should blame the Squire, when he came to
understand how this thing had befallen them,
for that first error of judgment in which others
were joined with him, but whose penalty he
alone had survived to pay, and should charge
him with the ruin of his hopes, and the blighting
of his future ? But he Avould not fear this ;
it would be so unlike Jack. So Squire Bassett

turned aside the point of that particular arrow
by a movement of confidence, such as his son's
mother might have felt towards her boy, had
she ever known him.

The day had dawned before sleep came, to
shield the Squire from the arrows that fly by
night into the fortress that has been breached
by trouble.

Mr. Dexter was up betimes, and busy with
a great reinforcement of papers, which he was
to take to town with him. The Squire accompanied
him to the Chester railway station, and
there took leave of him with his accustomed
cheerfulness.

He's a wonderful man,' said Mr. Dexter to
himself, as the train moved on, ' but he looks
ten years older than he looked on Saturday.
And he's as obstinate as the devil. Here I am
going back without having got one word said of
what would put it all right if he would only
listen to reason.'

The journey of Mr. Dexter back to town

F 2

was not made under circumstances quite so
pleasant as his journey down. The local paper
with which he proposed to beguile the time was
badly printed, and tried his sight; the compartment
was filled with travellers at the first
stop, and two children were of the number. Mr.
Dexter was not a child-loving bachelor. The
devoted mother in attendance thought it necessary
to pull one of the windows up and down
twenty times in an hour, according to the indicatory
sneezes of her offspring. Altogether
things went badly, and Mr. Dexter arrived at
Euston Station  a place not calculated to restore
anybody's spirits  tired and cross.

London was full of drizzling rain and drifting
blacks ' ; the air was dark and clammy ; it
was difficult for Mr. Dexter to realise that only
a few hours ago he had left behind him such
a scene as the terrace and flower-garden at
Bassett. Mr. Dexter was dissatisfied with
himself, and external things aided his discontent.
The comfort and orderliness of his own

house, dingy and heavily furnished as it was,
and lacking all those small arrangements and
adornments that tell of the presence of women
other than domestics, were grateful to the discomfited
lawyer. His dinner, well cooked and
served, was ready for him so soon as he was
ready for it, and at its conclusion he was almost
restored to his customary condition of charity
with himself, and with mankind in general.
The toothache, which he felt sure he was going
to have, in consequence of the fluctuations of
the railway-carriage window, had not developed
itself. The cheery fire, and the light of wax
candles reflected in the dark brightness of the
polished mahogany, were very pleasant, and
the double-shelved waggon on casters, on which
Mr. Dexter's business papers were symmetrically
laid out, promised a goodly amount of occupation
for the evening.

The waggon was wheeled to the side of
Mr. Dexter's easy chair, and he was left to the
discussion of his port and his papers. He

enjoyed the prospect, as a different sort of man
might enjoy being rid of business until the
next day, for he loved his work. Not only its
larger processes, its successes, its results, and
the profits that accrued from them  although
Mr. Dexter was passably fond of money  but
its details, its minutiae, the cautious handing
sometimes ungenerously lumped in with practices
that are contemptuously stigmatised as
pettifogging,' and all the ingenuities and
formalities of legal procedure. There was, in
fact, nothing connected with the routine and
practice of his profession which was wearisome
to Mr. Dexter ; there was nothing that he
would have had abolished, except, perhaps, the
Long Vacation. If his mind with respect to
that institution could have been got at, he
would probably have been found to regard it
as a deplorable concession to the Bar.

At Mr. Dexter's right hand stood the waggon
; on the table by his left elbow were laid
some newspapers, the Times uppermost. Conspicuous

among the papers on the top shelf of
the waggon was a letter without a postage
stamp.

Norris's report,' said Mr. Dexter to himself,
as he struck the envelope open with his
eye-glass.

The memorandum was brief: ' M. Reveillon,
from Paris, called on Saturday. He wishes to
see you without delay, and will call again on
Tuesday at 11 a.m.'

M. Eeveillon, from Paris,' repeated Mr.
Dexter ; ' I had forgotten the name. I wonder
what his errand is. Whatever it may be, I am
all the more sorry that I could not make the
Squire listen to what I had to say.'

Then Mr. Dexter delivered himself up to
the Times. He was a methodical and catholic-minded
reader, he never skimmed, and in most
public matters he took a lively interest. Those
which concerned the empire of France possessed
but slender attraction for Mr. Dexter ; he might
have left that department of knowledge unexplored,

had not the aspect of Eastern affairs,
and the prospect that the ' entente cordiale ' between
France and England was to mean much
more than an interchange of commercial treaties
and diplomatic courtesies, lent increased importance
to the Paris correspondence of the
Times. So Mr. Dexter read the news from
France, and presently came upon the following
passage :

'The death of M. D'Esterres, the weU-
known collector of pictures and objects of art,
which took place on the 20th ultimo, throws a
quantity of bric-a-brac on the market, and has
caused a fluttering among the rival dealers and
collectors. According to the instructions of
the will of M. D'Esterres, which was made sixteen
years ago, a sale of the collections is to
take place at the hotel in the Marais, where he
lived for half a century. The date of the sale
is not yet announced, but the catalogue-makers
are hard at work. It is said that the Empress
is anxious to secure several articles which

formerly belonged to the unfortunate Queen
Marie Antoinette, and were especially prized
by M. D'Esterres.'

Sixteen years ago, ' said Mr. Dexter, as he
laid the newspaper on his knee, and polished
his glasses with his handkerchief ; ' it is then the
old will, the first will, unchanged. It must bea
large fortune by this time, fur, even buying
rubbish as he did, M. D'Esterres could not have
spent two-thirds of his income. I wonder
what the figure amounts to by this time : very
likely it will be given with the details of the
sale.'

This item of Parisian news was seemingly
a fruitful source of reflection to Mr. Dexter, for
he did not resume his reading of the newspaper
for several minutes, and before he went to work
at his papers he cut the paragraph relating to the
death of M. D'Esterres out of the Times, and
placed it carefully in his pocket book.

CHAPTER lY.

FIELD-FLOWER FARM.

There was not a spot in all Cheshire more rich
in wild flowers  those

Treasures that fall alike to all,
Type of the promised Heaven 

than the farm occupied by David Wynn. It
formed a portion of the Bassett estate, and
had been named in days long past Field-flower
Farm. The farm boasted of a history ; for the
dwelling-house, an object so picturesque that
more than one artist of repute had taken its
portrait, had once been a fortress. That was
in the time of the Welsh wars ; it had
been turned into a dower-house at a much
later period, when the wealthy and childless
widow of the Bassett of that day retired into

it from the then newly-built mansion in the
park, which passed into the possession of her
deceased husband's brother. Dame Dorothy
Bassett set about making improvements in her
new abode, in a modernising direction ; but
they were suspended by her second marriage,
when she transferred herself and her fortune
to other climes, and the dower-house declined
upon a lower level of destiny. The moat had
been filled up half a century before Dame
Dorothy's time : sheer from the smooth greensward,
which for ages had hidden the old
pavement of the courtyard beneath it, rose the
grey, lichen-grown walls of the house, with
its long narrow casements of lozenge-shaped
panes of glass set in lead, its sturdy buttress,
and its ruined tower, on whose summit a profusion
of greenery, sprouting from the ruins,
made a well-like bower, accessible from a
rough stair.

The ancient arched gateway had long been
built up, and the stones that filled the space

were dotted with grey, red, and yellow
growths ; the chains of the old portcullis still
hung, rust-eaten, on either side of the arch,
and an extensive fragment of the external wall
pushed up its grey head between the stretch of
bright green grass that marked the site of the
old moat, and a thriving coppice of young oaks,
with a fine fringe of graceful larches, which
shut out the homely and material aspects of
the farm. A narrow gate in this fragment of
the old wall gave admittance to the wide grass
plat and the flower beds, and a path led to a
door in that part of the house-wall which
formed an angle with the ruined tower. There
was nothing on the western side to indicate
that the old place was a farmhouse ; the hag-parts,
lofts, stables, hothouses, piggeries, &c.,
were on the opposite side, and thence the farm
land stretched away to a distance that indicated
Farmer Wynn as a ' warm ' man. From
the upper range of the long, narrow, irregular
windows on ' the Dame's parlour-side '  so

called for a century past  a very pretty bit
of landscape was visible ; the ground dipped
suddenly and steeply beyond the oak and larch
coppice, to the bank of a swift stream which
ran merrily, between willows and alders, to
join the Dee near the ancient city of Chester.
On the other side of it were widespread-king
meadows extending to the high road that
passed over an old bridge half a mile from
the farm. From the gate in the old wall
already mentioned, a path, cut through the
coppice to the water's edge, led to a substantial
summer-house, with a penthouse roof
on the river side of it, which afforded shelter
to a boat.

The entrance to Field-lower Farm was
modern and ugly, though redeemed to some
extent by the fine avenue of trees that
divided it from the high road ; but the
peculiarity of the house was the distinct
character of its western side. Whitewashed
walls, windows set in black wooden frames,

flagged passages, and common staircases, were
on the farm side, which was connected with
the other by a vaulted passage, panelled and
ceiled with carved oak, and by carved doors
that swung heavily back into recesses in the
thick walls of the rooms, three on each floor.

The furniture of the Dame's parlour-side
partook of the mixed character of the house,
but the old fashion preponderated ; for the
rooms were rarely used by any inmate of
Field-flower Farm. Wynn despised the old
rubbish,' and none of his neighbours would
have dissented from his opinion had he
deigned to consult theirs. In those days no
revival of taste had taken place ; spindle-shanked
chairs and tables were not more
highly esteemed than were the wan and the
limp among human beings.

The walls, which were very thick, had
been covered in, by the care of Dame Dorothy,
with canvas stretched on stout wooden
frames, and hung with old tapestry, chiefly

representing hunting scenes, but varied by a
Nativity above the lofty carved chimney-piece
at the end of the suite of three rooms
that formed the ground floor, and communicated
with each other and with the corridor.
The spaces between and above the long
small-pane windows, with clumsy latches
and harps to fasten them back to the outer
wall, were also filled up with tapestry ; on
three sides of the room stretched a deep
surbase of carved oak, with window-seats of
the same. On these lay cushions of faded
moreen  waifs and strays from the old church
pews. The ceiling was also of carved oak,
and its design converged in the centre into
the blazoned lozenge of that Dame Dorothy
Bassett who had set her mark on the old
place.

It was no admiration of them, but the
simple consideration of utility, that had led to
the stripping of the ' Dame's side ' of several
of the old 'pieces' and their transfer to the

Farm-side,' with the result of rendering the
prevailing medley more incongruous. There
remained, however, a couple of fine carved
cabinets, a ' secretary ' of some rare blackwood
with richly wrought brass handles and
locks, a well-worn Turkey carpet, half a dozen
ancient chairs, with initials and dates upon
them that assigned a century of existence to
the newest. A gigantic hour-glass in an ebony
frame, with a pair of feather wings laden with
undisturbed dust, fitted into a niche in the
tapestry over the central door, and in a corner,
by the great chimney-piece, its graceful cut
of flax grey with age, stood an ancient ,
silent since its last owner's thread
of life had been severed by the Fates' unhesitating
shears.

The solemn air of unused rooms, which in
their time have witnessed all the scenes in the
drama of human life, pervaded these ; but it
was relieved by the entrance of fresh air and
sunshine through the lifted window frames,

now pushed outwards, and secured by their
clumsy hooks to the broad stone sills, and
also by a large nosegay of sweet-scented
common flowers that dispensed its sweetness
from a wide punch bowl of Old Crown Derby,
which would in these days have found ardent
admirers.

The weather was fine, the sun was shining,
a gentle wind was astir among the trees,
passing over the fair-promising fields and the
swift bright streams ; the sounds of animal life
and the song of birds were all about, but not
too near, and the picture both inside and out
on the Dame's parlour-side was a charming
one, of the remote and quiet order. Presently
its still-life aspect was dispelled by the entrance
of the only person whose presence was familiar
to the quaint, formally-disposed rooms. This
was Mavis Wynn, who, although she would
not have dared to speak of 'the Dame's
parlour-side ' as her ' own '  indeed, it would
have been hardly safe for a dweller in the
VOL. I. G

Field-flower Farm to apply a proprietors term
to his or her soul  had virtual possession of
the despised premises, and prized the privilege
highly. Even now, though she came in hastily,
and was evidently not going to remain, she
glanced around lingeringly, advanced to the
window and looked out ; then, having raised
the lid of a window-seat, and taken from the
convenient recess a work-basket and a roll of
linen, she stood for a few moments irresolute.
There was an air of fatigue and an expression
of care about her, such as, one always thinks,
the young ought not to wear, and she sighed,
unconsciously, as she passed the back of her
hand across and across her forehead.

Despite of the tired, even harassed expression
that she now wore. Mavis Wynn would
have won something more than mere admiration
from those who did not insist on brilliancy
of colour as an indispensable constituent of
good looks. It was not only that the farmer's
daughter looked ' like a lady,' as Mr. Dexter

had remarked, but that she possessed quiet
grace and lofty simplicity such as mere ladyhood
cannot give, for they are the outward and
visible signs of a spiritual condition. It was
the expression of her face that was chiefly
noted by all who observed Mavis Wynn ; the
candid, comprehending look in the steady grey
eyes, the sweet serenity of the mouth, which
was her one truly beautiful feature. That was
an era of hideous hair-dressing, but Mavis
Wynn wore her abundant chestnut locks as
nature set them on her head, drawn back from
her broad forehead, and falling behind her ears
in sat thick curls. As the light shone upon
the hair, waved all over the top of her head
with the shell-like curves that no iron can
imitate, a touch of colour, which would have
been welcome to an artist's eye, was added to
the sombre picture presented by the tall slight
figure of the girl in her plain mourning dress,
and relieved it.

Presently she aroused herself from the pause

(i 2

of perplexity that had come upon her, and
with a last glance around the picturesque old
room, at once a harbour of refuge and the
home of her dreams, she took her way to the
Parm-side ' of the house. This might have
been in another county for all the resemblance
that existed between its plentiful and noisy
comfort, and the old-world seclusion of ' the
Dame's parlour-side,' with its touch of faded
stateliness.

The common sitting-room, heavily furnished
with horsehair-cushioned chairs, a huge sofa to
match, and dark red moreen curtains, but
boasting a corner cupboard rich in old china,
and adorned with some curious pieces of ancient
needlework, in contrast with common Art
Union prints in maple frames, was as unpicturesque
an apartment as any comfortable farmhouse
could show. The sights and sounds of
the farm were not shut out from it, and it was
on the si me level with the big kitchen and
substantial offices, one small room intervening.

The latter was a place of motley contents, for
it was Farmer Wynn's own, and he prohibited
meddling with his papers, accounts, samples,
what not, as sternly as the most sensitive and
despotic poet, philosopher, playwright, or literary
person. With effect too ; for every living
creature on the Field-flower Farm was afraid
of the master thereof, from that lucky young
woman, its nominal mistress, to the beautiful
black cat, Isaac. It was a fact of no little significance
that the latter sagacious animal would
even vacate his favourite seat in the nook by
the fireside, where he was perfectly secure from
draughts, and retire under the big horsehair
sofa, to a roomy footstool provided for such
emergencies by his best friend's care, when an
oblique glance from his topaz eyes had apprised
him that the farmer was ' put out.'

To this common sitting-room, which, for all
its heaviness and dulness, had its share of the
general aspect of plentiful comfort, Mavis bent
her steps. Though it was still early, the hour

was that after-dinner one which usually afforded
the female inmates of Field flower Farm the
largest measure of peace and cheerfulness ever
meted out to them. The substantial midday
meal had been eaten, the table had been
cleared, the general tidying previous to the
spell of sewing which formed a part of the
day's routine had been gone through. The
picture presented by the room Alas not without
its homely charm, when Mavis seated herself
opposite to her stepmother, and applied herself
to stitching a wristbands.

Your father's gone up to the House,' said
Mrs. Wynn, breaking a silence during which
she had been glancing uneasily at the downcast
face and busy hands of her stepdaughter.

'Is he'.

'We shall have a little comfortable time.
Give me the other wristbands, Mavis : all's right
outside, I may sit still for a bit.'

You look very tired, Sarah ; you don't
want to sew, I'm sure, and there's no need why

you should. There's no one here to scold you
for taking a rest. Sit back in your chair, and
shut your eyes for a while.'

I think I will'

The girl rose, made her stepmother's position
more comfortable by placing a footstool
under her feet, and gravely lifted Isaac
into her lap. This arrangement conveyed a
sense of security, perfectly understood by all
three parties to it. Then she resumed her sewing,
and the stillness was unbroken in the room,
save by the ticking of an old clock, which for
antiquity and size might have been Master Humphrey's
own, and had told its monotonous tale
for more years than any one now living could
count.

There was a sort of restraint, but not any lack
of affection, between the wife of Farmer Wynn
and his daughter. Mavis and her stepmother
knew but little of each other, although five
years had elapsed since Farmer Wynn brought
home to Field-flower Farm the pretty young

woman whose good luck had been the theme of
comment, long after the object of not a little
envy had ceased to regard herself as a favourite
of fortune. Mrs. Wynn had never heard of
Sir Peter Teazle, but she knew what it was to
be wished joy, after she had become soundly
convinced that joy and she had parted company
for evermore.

Sarah Price was one of v children,
brought up on the scanty earnings of their
father, who was in the employ of a Liverpool
mercantile firm. Until she set off on her wedding
jaunt, she had never been out of Liverpool,
except for a Sunday-school holiday in the
fields or across the ferry, and to her the comfort,
the plenty, the importance of a large farm in
Cheshire  her suitor made the most of the
advantages to be gained by accepting him 
meant promotion indeed. Her father and
mother were rejoiced to know that the delicate
one of the family, she who had been least able
to bear the poor fare and hard work of a

household only to be kept together in decency
by the unremitting toil of the women, was to
have comforts they could never hope to give
her, and that she would be ' quite a lady.'
They perceived that Sarah's suitor was what
they called ' a bit masterful,' and Mrs. Price
stated (to her husband) her belief that he was
more than a bit selfish. There was, however,
no doubt that he was very much taken with
their Sarah ; and these good people, whose lifelong
tussle with poverty had made them regard
well-to-do-ness with not unnatural reverence,
were to be excused for making the best of a
case that had so much tangible good in it.

So Sarah Price married David Wynn, and
was taken to Field-flower Farm, there to begin
her new life as ' quite a lady.' She knew but
little of any kind of life except that which they
had all led at home ; she was not an imaginative
person, nor had she derived many extraneous
ideas from books. There was little taste and
less time for reading in the Price household ;

not a gleam of romance ever shone on that
homely existence ; but the realities of it were
all good, wholesome, respectable, and, in spite
of poverty and struggle, happy. The husband
and wife, the parents and children, loved and
respected each other. The household peace
that wealth cannot create, although, unhappily,
poverty so often destroys it, was theirs. If
Sarah had been going to the other side of the
world, the change of place and scene could
hardly have been greater to her ; and it was
not surprising that the boys and girls whom she
was leaving should entertain notions, as pleasing
as they were vague, of what Farmer Wynn 
who had a grand place of his own, and had
given their Sarah a gold watch and a fine silk
gown  might possibly do for some or all of
them.

CHAPTEE V.

THE Wynne.

Five years had elapsed since Sarah Price
made the great match, that was talked of to a
distance of at least two streets from the dingy
dwelling to which her thoughts had often returned
with unavailing regret; and it would
have been hard to find anywhere a wife who
had more soundly repented of her marriage.
Timid, narrow-minded, tender-hearted, and
weakly, she was not one of those women who
can withstand tyranny, and who occasionally
succeed in curing tyrants, by convincing them
that a change of tactics is their best policy ;
she was, on the contrary, specially designed and
cut out for a victim. David Wynn had never
from the first treated her with indulgence ; he

had found her timidity exasperating, her ignorance
of everything connected with country life
troublesome, her feeble health expensive and
inconvenient, and he had speedily made her
aware that he regarded his marriage as a bad
bargain.

Under no circumstances could Mrs. Wynn
have been an energetic, capable woman, but
her lot was an especially hard one, inasmuch as
such qualities as she did possess were entirely
wasted, while she was made to suffer every day
of her life for the lack of others with which
she had not been endowed. Her husband was
a coarse, mean, suspicious, cruel tyrant ; she
had no child, and she would have been a fond
and devoted mother  very likely a wise one,
also, for the strength that the love of children
gives often lies latent in such timid souls. In
the house she was totally without consideration.
The mistress,' who knew no more about farming
than she knew about Greek, who was afraid
of the tamest of cows, and caught a cold that

lasted her ' for three months the first time she
was taken over the farm, was not likely favourably
to impress the people about her. She was
set down by common consent as ' a poor creature
' ; and as Farmer Wynn made it speedily
and particularly plain that he thought very
little of her, things went on pretty much as
they had done during the years that followed
the death of the farmer's first wife.

At the time of David Wynn's second marriage
but little had been said about his daughter,
and that little was not pleasing to Mrs. Price,
who possessed good sense and a motherly
heart.

Sarah don't need to worry about her,' was
Wynn's careless answer to a question concerning
the girl, then thirteen years old. ' She
lives with her uncle and aunt  Jeffrey their
name is  in London. She ain't coming home ;
she'll give Sarah no trouble.'

She wouldn't count it a trouble,' said the
mother, whose ' heavy handful ' was so cheerfully

carried ; ' she's always been used to doing
for the little ones, and our Sarah knows her
duty.'

Once only in the course of four out of the
five dreary years since her marriage, had Mrs.
Wynn been cheered by the company of her
husband's daughter. She had sometimes presumed
to think that she would not have been
so complete a failure as a stepmother as in every
other capacity she had proved to be, if she had
been given the chance of trying what she could
make of that relation. She checked her regrets,
however, just as she repressed the natural
longing for a child of her own, and hushed the
natural disappointment when no child came,
to make her feel that she was anything to anybody,'
by the reflection that Mavis was much
]better away from her father. ' It would be as
bad for her as it is for me, or worse, ' this poor
woman said to herself, when the oppression
that weighed upon her life was very hard to
bear ; ' for she's young, and has a deal of

spirit, and she might not put up with it as I
can.'

David Wynn had given a churlish reception
to the tall, thin, large-eyed girl of fifteen,
Who was sent to Field-flower Farm to recruit
her strength after an illness, and the six weeks
of her stay had been anything but pleasant to
Mavis. She had no love for her father, and to
her acute young perceptions, aided by the
very different domestic atmosphere of her
uncle's house, the wretchedness of her stepmother's
existence was plain. The pleasure
that Mrs. Wynn derived from the frank affection
of the girl was marred by the revelation of
a fresh difficulty in her path, and the supply of
new aliment to the devouring demon of her
husband's temper. Farmer Wynn disliked his
wife as much as he despised her ; but he did
not choose that she should care for anybody,
or have anything in her life beyond those
things which she held at his absolute will and
pleasure. Hitherto, having effectually separated

her from her own family, he had been
able to carry these points.

The hopes that her fine match lead excited
were early extinguished. Mrs. Wynn had no
power to invite her parents to her husband's
house, even if they had possessed the means
of coming to her ; and when she proposed to
visit them, Wynn told her if she did so she might
stay there, she should not return to him. He
would have been incapable of comprehending
the courage and self-denial there was in his
wife's silent endurance of this act of cruelty,
and in her resistance of the temptation to put
his brutal threat to the test. As it was, he took
her meek submission for a signal victory. She
knew better than to quarrel with her bread
and butter. She would be long sorry to lose
or risk her good home. But what a sneak she
was ! He hated a woman with no spirit.
Such were the reflections with which Wynn
went out to bully his farm-servants and
labourers, to the comparatively small extent

of bullying which they would bear from him ;
while the wife, in whose case there were no
limitations of either law or custom, was weeping
her heart out for the poor home she was nevermore
to see, and thinking how gladly her
parents would take her back, only that she must
not be again a burden upon their poverty. No ;
that could never be ; she had to bear this
knowledge ; but there was a difference in Mrs.
Wynn from that day. She made no farther
efforts with herself; she never again tried to
care for her tyrant ; she accepted her insignificance
with indifference, indeed with thankfulness.
So that she escaped loud-tongued abuse
and coarse violence she was content.

Her neighbours were of the opinion that
Mrs. Wynn was ' a poor creature.' She did not
care for company, she did not take any pride in
the farm ; though the Field-flower butter was
well known for excellence, and Wynn was an
authority on sheep. Even a bit of dress was
not of such value in her eyes as it ought to have

VOL. I. II

been. Mayhap she was pious, and that made
her low-spirited. Against this ingenious suggestion,
however, there was the objection that
the Wynns were ' Church ' ; now piety was, in
those parts, supposed to abide in and to be the
peculiar property of Dissenters, or, as they were
called, ' Chapel ' people. Thus she was left a
good deal to herself, and as she kept her own
counsel with patient reticence that had its origin
not in pride but in propriety, Wynn's character
stood higher than it deserved. The worst that
was said of him was that he was a rough tyke,
while there was a good deal of indulgence for a
man's not being too fond of his home who had
such a mope of a wife in it.

When Mavis Wynn was eighteen, her aunt,
with whom she had lived since the death of her
mother, died, and she was summoned home by
her father. Mrs. Wynn was more than usually
ailing, and it was expedient that there should
be some one to look after her. Her stepdaughter
would probably do this as well as

anyone else, and could be made to do it more
cheaply. Mrs. Wynn would hardly have
known her for the gawky girl whose intelligent
observation she had dreaded during the brief
period they had passed together. Mavis was
older-looking than her years, by reason of the
serenity and self-possession that expressed themselves
in her features ; in education and refinement
she was far beyond any one with whom
her father's wife had ever associated. Mrs.
Wynn knew nothing positive about Mavis's
mother ; she would not have dared to ask her
husband a question, and he never talked about
his past ; but a rumour had reached her that
the farmer's first wife, although she had no
money to speak of, had come of ' good ' people,
and married beneath her.

Mavis had been only a month at the farm,
when she was sent for by Mr. Jeffrey, her aunt's
husband, who was dying. David Wynn allowed
her, grudgingly enough, to go to London ; but
as his brother-in-law, a hard-working professor

H 2

of music, and a man of rare taste and cultivation,
had some little property to leave  it would
not have been prudent to refuse. Mavis was
returning from that sorrowful visit when Mr.
Dexter saw her, and commented upon the difference
between the father and the daughter.

If Mr. Dexter had seen Mavis on her first
arrival he would have thought her better-looking.
A month is not a long time, even
when one is only eighteen, and prone to the
hasty decisions, severe judgments, and unhesitating
finality of youth ; but it did not take a
fourth of that period to remove any illusions she
might have cherished from the mind of Mavis
Wynn, to renew her former dread of her father,
and to inspire her with profound compassion for
her stepmother. The conditions of Mavis's life
had of late been such as to mature her mind and
develop her feelings ; she had come back to her
father's house under the influence of her first
serious sorrow, and that influence was a good
one. It strengthened the girl for what she had

to bear ; it helped her to discern what she had
to do. But the bloom, which her sincere and
natural grief had hardly touched, faded under
the constraint and misery of a home where
a man's overbearing temper and his pleasure in
inflicting pain on all who were dependent upon
him, rendered wretched every waking hour of
the women within its walls.

The home that Mavis looked back to had
been very different ; mutual love and helpfulness
had reigned in it ; industry and frugality
had kept it happy and honourable ; pure minds
had sanctified, elevated tastes had refined and
beautified it. There was the sharp agony of
contrast in the suffering which Mavis endured ;
there was the desperate hopelessness that only
the young feel. This hateful place was her
home now, and here she would have to live
always ! Even if she were allowed to return to
her uncle, she knew that he was a condemned
man, before the blow of his wife's death, that
was destined to hasten the execution of the

sentence, fell upon him. The past was allover
; she would probably not be permitted to
pursue any of its occupations, to retain any of
its associations. Hep father intended her to bea
servant without wages ; her stepmother had
no power to defend her, and no courage to
make the attempt.

Mr. Jeffrey left his wife's niece nothing ;
his small savings were bequeathed to his only
son, who was farming, with a partner, in Canada.
Mavis had nothing to show for her journey
and travelling expenses, except a box of
trumpery keepsakes, mostly old books and
rubbish of that kind, and the aggrieved farmer
did not spare her on her return, empty-handed,
after the funeral.

He will never go on at her as he does
at me,' the poor crushed wife had thought with
a faint ray of comfort ; * she's young, and her
spirit isn't broken, and, after all, she's his own
child. Besides, there's Mr. and Mrs. Colvin
think so much of her, and Wynn don't want to

lose his character with them ; he lets her sing
in the choir, though she ain't paid for it, and he
sends me to church regularly with her  and oh,
what a comfort and a rest it is ! he will never
swear at her and bang her about, surely.'

Once started on this hopeful path of thought,
Miss. Wynn pursued it to the adventurous
length of wondering whether her own lot might
not possibly be bettered by the presence of
Mavis. If there was any one to put any
restraint at all upon the ruffianly nature of
her tyrant her life might possibly be lightened.
For a while it seemed as if Mrs. Wynn's hopes
were not unfounded, but the scene that ensued
on the return of Mavis after Mr. Jeffrey's death
effectually dissi-pated them. Steer before had
the unfortunate girl realised to the full the
coarse brutality of her father's nature ; never
had his wife's dread of him reached a more
painful height. An immediate result of the
scene of foul-tongued railing was the breaking
down of the barrier of silence between the

man's wife and his daughter. When Mrs.
Wynn, realising the blessed relief of the farmer's
absence, remarked to Mavis that they should
have a comfortable time, she knew that all disguise
between them was over, that any illusion
Mavis might have entertained respecting the
life that lay before her was at an end.

What will she do ? I'm afraid she'll never
learn to bear it. I saw that in her face on
Saturday night, when he called her mother's
sister by every filthy name he could lay his
tongue to. I couldn't expect her to bear it for
my sake only ; I shouldn't for hers, if I had
anywhere to go to, or any way of living.' So ran
the thoughts of Mrs. Wynn, as she covertly
observed her stepdaughter's downcast face and
busy fingers, and slowly stroked the glossy
black fur of the cat in her lap. She had learned
to be so thankful for small mercies that the
idleness, the quiet of the tidy room, and
the moral certainty that a couple of hours of
these good things awaited her, gave her a holiday

feeling, which even her trouble about
Mavis could not dissipate.

Sarah,' said Mavis, suddenly, looking
straight at the quiet figure in the horsehair chair,
and noting afresh the expression of debility in
Mrs. Wynn's still pretty but commonplace face ;
tell me something about yourself. I am here
now, you know, for good or for bad  there's
no use in our hiding anything from each other ;
you are not so many years older than I, and
I don't think you are able for half so much. I
know very little about you ; and I want to find
out whether I can help you in any way. We
have to bear it together. Is it always so bad as
this .? '

Almost always,' answered Mrs. Wynn.
Her cheek flushed, her eyes deepened in colour,
as she sat upright to make her reply more emphatic
' I've never known a week's peace since
I left my home to come here, and no one, no
woman, that is, ever could know peace where
your father is. I can't help it, though you are

his daughter, and I oughtn't to speak, perhaps
'

It does not matter ; those rules may be all
very well where things are not so bad as they
are with us  you and I had better know what
we have to face. Tell me ; have you no
friends ? '

I ? Jot one. My father and mother died
of the fever in the same week. I wasn't told
they were ill until they were dead, and then I
was not allowed to go and look at their dead
faces. The girls are doing for themselves : one
is married, the other is in a shop in Liverpool ;
the boys are gone to America ; I suppose I shall
never hear any more about them.'

Did my father do anything for them ? '

'No, never. And I dare say they think
that was my fault, too  they didn't know, bless
them ! how could they ? My father and mother
knew, though ; I have that comfort ; they
knew I did not forsake them, or forget them.'

The habitual timorous quietude of Mrs.

Wynn was broken through ; she was trembling
now, as a vision of the past came back to her,
and her tears fell. There were answering tears
in the girl's eyes.

I fear you have always been very unhappy.
Aunt Jeffrey used to say that you must be. I
don't know how she knew it, for she never saw
my father since I was quite a little child ; but
I'm afraid it must have been because my mother
was unhappy too. Don't you think this was
how she knew ? '

I suppose it was. But don't you go fretting,
dear, about that long ago time. She's
over it many a year ; and, if all's true we hear
in church, she has what's better worth thinking
of to turn her mind to than those old troubles.
Besides, it could not have been so bad when he
was quite young ; and she was a lady, too, I've
heard say.'

'Yes, she was a lady,' said Mavis, feeling,
with the sensitiveness of her better education,
the simple spontaneous humility of her stepmother

; ' but I don't think that can have made
any difference in him

Perhaps not,' assented Mrs. Wynn, who
was not one to stick to her own opinion, ' when
he'd got used to having a lady to hector over.
All the same, I've seen him meek and mild
enough to the gentry hereabout. There's Mr.
Colvin, how civil he is to him, and to us before
him. Haven't you remarked that, Mavis ? '

Yes, I've remarked that ; but I observed
something else too. Mr. Colvin has come here
twice, with the intention of asking father why
he never goes to church ; and, civil as father has
been to him both times, he has gone away without
putting the question.'

Now, how on earth did you know that ?
He let it out to me, and bragged of keeping
the parson in his place ; but you were not in
the room.'

Ko, and I didn't need to be. There are
things that I seem to feel instead of knowing.
I suppose it is because I am so terribly afraid of

father myself, that I always know when other
people are afraid of him.'

It is well for you that you are afraid of
him,' said Mrs. Wynn, with the earnest conviction
of a victim ; ' for if you were not, you
might try to go against him ; you might think
it safe, you know, being a grown-up woman as
one may say ; but it wouldn't be safe. Mavis.
You had better by half be as much afraid of
him as I am, for you would have no more
chance against him than I've had.'

The girl had been stitching away all this
time in a mechanical manner, but now she
desisted, her work dropped on the table, and
the colour faded completely from her face.

What do you mean  Do you  is it possible
 has he ever ? '

Beaten me, you don't like to say. Indeed
he has, many and many a time. I have never
told any one ; and he has never struck me when
there was anybody by. I might have been
protected, you know, though people are mostly

for letting a man do what lie likes with his
own, in these parts. Anyhow, it would have
got talked of. But I'm not far off from being
as well used to a beating as his dogs and his
horses. You know something about that, don't
you ? '

I do indeed,' said Mavis, with a shudder.
The knowledge and sight of the habitual
cruelty with which animals were treated at
Field-flower Farm was the worst part of what
she had to bear. She had already found that
any interference on her part only made the lot
of the helpless creatures harder.

Then, mind what you do or say. I would
not have told you  for my own sake  for no
matter what one has gone through or how little
one has come to think of oneself, it is never
easy to confess to that ; but I am afraid for you.
He would think no more of knocking you
down, if you crossed him when the devil is in
him, than he would think of thrashing Ponto.
I would have told you this before you went to

London, and tried to make you see that it's
no use, even though you're young and have a
spirit, only that things were really better for
that month. He was busy with something we
know nothing about, and we gained by that ;
and besides, I was so ill that I could keep out
of his way. But it is time to tell you now, and
to warn you. You have seen him bad enough,
and heard what he can do with his tongue, but
do you not ever persuade yourself that's all you
have to fear, for if you do, and take heart to set
yourself against him, you'll come in for the
same as I've come in for, many a time. Don't
you put me down for a bad wife, Mavis, because
I've told you ; there's a deal of that in story
books, I know, but I'm no saint, nor yet a
martyr. I want you to keep whole bones, and
I want to save your father from all the disgrace
I can. I have had many a fright since
you've been here, but never such a fright as I
had on that night when you came home, and
he found out that you had been left nothing.

Why he did not strike you in his fury then I
do not know.'

I do, and I will tell you presently. Tell
me this first. Why have you stayed with him
to be so treated all this time ? '

Because a man's wife must stay with him,
child. Try, when your own time comes, to
think what that means, for all one's life long.
If I had run away to my father and mother,
he could have brought me back, to treat me still
worse. I never had a shilling of my own since
the day I married him ; and I'm afraid you'll
have to know what a helpless feeling that gives,
for I'm sure he'll never let you have one.
Meat, and drink, and clothes, he does not
grudge us, but he'll make us feel that we have
nothing that we don't owe to him.'

Mavis looked as if she were about to speak,
but checked herself, and resumed her needlework.


Mrs. Wynn, whose unusual vehemence and
purpose had tired her, said no more for sometime,

but turned her ever-weary eyes upon
the window from which she could see any one
coming up to the house. Presently she looked
round, and said to Mavis :

I am not going to work, but you had better
put the things by my hand.' The last shred of
disguise was torn away ; the feeble cunning
of the slave in dread of the taskmaster was
revealed. If Wynn were to come in and catch
her with idle hands, she would be sure of the
lash  of his tongue. And how that weary
woman dreaded it ! Silently Mavis placed
working materials by Mrs. Wynn's side, and
stuck a threaded needle in a half-stitched wrist-band.
Then she said quietly :

I will tell you why my father did not strike
me that night, and why he has never struck
you since I came home. It is because he does
not want me to leave the house, and he knows
I should do it.'

Do it ! why, how could you ? Where
could you go to ? '

VOL. I. I

I don't know ; but I could leave this place,
and I would. If you are right, if he's afraid of
what people would say of him, then there is a
way of helping you. It's my staying here, and
putting that much check on him. And, please
God, I will do it, Sarah.'

She laid her slender hand upon Mrs.
Wynn's arm for a moment with a half-soothing,
half-protecting touch, and then, saying she
would make her some tea, left the room. Mrs.
Wynn had her tea, but Mavis did not return.
She had taken refuge in the Dame's parlour,
and, kneeling upon the cushioned window-seat,
was letting the sweet air play upon her troubled
face. Shame, aversion, disgust, were strong
within her, and her mind was full of youth's
impatient questioning. Was every thing, was
every one, bad in this world ? How could
such out-of-jointness exist as that one human
being should be free to make all around him
miserable ? Mavis put a bad half-hour over her
then and there ; one that she never afterwards

forgot. Before lie left the Dame's parlour she
took a sealed packet out of a drawer in an old
cabinet, looked long at it, and restored it carefully
to its place.

Ah, my dear, dear Aunt Jane,' so said
Mavis in her thoughts, ' how wise you were,
low right you were, how well you knew. And
yet, you did not, you could not, foresee the full
value of what you did for me.'

Your father has come in,' said Mrs. Wynn,
glancing nervously at Mavis when she returned,
and busily stitching the wristbands ;
he is in quite a good humour. Whatever his
business with the Squire may be, it must be
going well. And Mr. Jack has come home.'

I 2

CHAPTEE VI.

TROTTY Neck.

Mavis Wynn was, fortunately for herself, an
habitually early riser. Had she made any
difficulty about the ' routing out ' which her
father insisted upon, she would have come in
for a frank expression of his contempt for her
lazy London ways. She escaped this, however,
by the readiness with which she rose in time to
see the household undress in its simplest expression,
and to assist in the tasks which were
none too much for the two strapping Welsh
girls employed in the farmhouse. Among the
many discomforts of her existence, poor feeble
Mrs. Wynn regarded enforced early rising with
especial distaste. Wynn was apt to come in
from his morning inspection of man, beast, and

I

general 'gear' in a humour for fault-finding,
and she was bound to be on the spot.

It isn't often I get a bit of peace at dinner,'
was Mrs. Wynn's mental summary of the situation,
' but it's nothing compared to breakfast. Oh
dear, oh dear, what a way of beginning the
day, every day of one's life ! '

Mavis regarded it as a victory, that she had
contrived to procure for her stepmother the
immense privilege of breakfasting in bed on a
few occasions, by speaking of it to her father
as a thing of course, on account of a cold ora
headache. As she took especial care that
everything should be orderly and comfortable
for his own morning meal, there had been
nothing worse to encounter than some surly
growls at the uselessness of women. On these
festivals Mrs. Wynn would be quite cheerful
when she came down to her sewing in the big
parlour, with a pleasant sense that she was
taking the day with the chill off. She had
never heard that clever French saying about

'im mari qui avait des absences delicious,'
but the English equivalent of it was her own
cherished though unspoken sentiment.

You need not get up said Mavis, coming
into Mrs. Wynn's room, on the morning after
the conversation just recorded ; * there's somebody
coming to breakfast with father, and he
does not want either of us. So lie still, and I
will fetch your tray.'

Somebody coming to breakfast ! Who
can it be ? He didn't say he was expecting
any one.'

I don't think he did expect any one, for I
was in the passage when this person came to
the door, and father seemed surprised. They
went into the big parlour, and father came out
in a minute, and told me he should not want us
at breakfast.'

Who can the man be ? Have you ever
been him before ? '

No, he is a stranger, I think. I heard
father call him Eeckitts.'

I don't know the name.'

Mavis ate her own breakfast in the kitchen,
and went about her ordinary occupations.
Wynn and the stranger remained in the big
parlour until long after the usual breakfast
time. At length Mavis heard her father calling
to her, and quickly presented herself at the
door. The white cloth had been pushed away
from one half of the large table in the middle
of the room, and a heap of papers and account-books
occupied a cleared space ; in front of
this the visitor was seated. His elbows rested
on the table, and he was looking at a 
plan or map, holding it with both
hands at a few inches from his near-sighted
eyes. Mr. Eeckitts was a 
man, under fifty, with pepper-and-salt
hair, and a florid complexion. He desisted
from his occupation and gave Mavis a nod, but
he did not rise.

'My daughter,' said Wynn, shortly, and
hardly allowed his visitor to say, ' Glad to see

you, Miss,' before he added : ' Are the windows
and doors open on the Dame's parlour-side?'


Yes, father.'

Is the place fit to be seen ? '

Yes, father ; I have just been dusting the
rooms.'

Then we can go and have a look at
them,' said the farmer, addressing the visitor.
'There's some valuable old wood up there.'

These words startled Mavis. She instantly
jumped to the conclusion that Mr. Keckitts
had come to Field-flower Farm to purchase
some of the tapestry or furniture, of whose
value she had a much more just idea than her
father, for she had seen such things in queer
out-of-the-way shops in London, and her uncle
Jeffrey had instructed her concerning them.
This Mr. Keckitts did not resemble the people
she had seen in the old-furniture shops, and
who were generally of a greasy and slinking
aspect : he was as distinctly bucolic as her

father, though less rough, and more agreeable
to look at. Still, she was sure she had hit on
the explanation of his visit, and it was disconcerting.
She should be sorry if the old things,
which aided her to weave the romances in
which she found relief from the unlovely
realities of her life, were taken away. The immediately
pressing consideration was, however,
what she should do if her father were to examine
the cabinet and find what she had hidden there ?

Shall you want me on the Dame's parlour-side
? ' she asked.

Xo. Will you come ? ' said Wynn to Mr.
Eeckitts. The latter assented and rose.

Wait a bit,' said the farmer, his habitual
suspiciousness coming into play, ' while I put
these away.'

He began to gather up the papers and
account-books on the table, that he might put
them under lock and key, and Mavis availed
herself of this opportunity to dart away, flit
through the intervening passages, gain the

Dame's parlour-side, and secure the hidden
packet. On her return she passed her father
and the stranger on the stairs, and Wynn
addressed her :

Miss Nestle wants to see you. You had
better go up to the House this morning.'

I dare say you are right,' said Mrs. Wynn,
when Mavis had told her how she accounted
for Mr. Eeckitts' visit, * though I can't see why
he should want to keep us out of the way, if it
is only that the man has come about. However,
we shall be none the wiser if we were
to guess ever so ; and if he sells the things,
whether he lets us know anything about it
until they have to be packed to go away, will
depend on the humour he's in.'

Oh, dear ! I should be sorry for the
Dame's parlour then ; how forsaken it would
look. You would be sorry too. You're fond
of those old things, aren't you ? '

No, I'm not, Mavis. I should not mind ;
I'm not fond of anything.'

'Yes, yes, you are, you're fond of me,'
said the girl, gaily. ' Good-bye. I shall have
a lovely walk. I wish you were coming.'

As fresh and as fair as the spring morning
itself was Mavis Wynn, as she set off on her
way to Bassett. The elasticity of her eighteen
years was asserting itself; everything around
her was bright and beautiful ; might there not
come some brightness and beauty into her life
also? Yesterday the shadows lay long and
dark ; to-day they were lighter. Nothing was
changed in reality, but it was a fine day, she
was free to enjoy it, she delighted in a long
walk. At the end of this one there was a
pleasant visit.

There was quite enough bloom on Mavis's
fair cheek when she passed through the narrow
gate in the old wall, took the path through the
coppice where the oak trees were just awakening
to their tender-green time, and the larches
were preparing to ' hang all their tassels forth,'
and reached the arbour-boathouse by the

water's edge. Here she paused and looked
around. Perchance Eeuben might be lounging
about somewhere, and would push the boat
down into the water for her. It was not too
much for her own strength to do this ; the
slope was easy, and she had done it many
times before to-day; but Mavis had dressed
herself with a good deal of care, and she
wanted to avoid possible splashes on her best
gown and her black silk scarf. There was,
however, no lounging Eeuben within view, and
she managed to slide the boat into the water
without injury to her dress. She crossed the
stream, fastened the boat to the post set up for
that purpose on the other side, and took the
path through the fields.

There was a delicious light wind, it came
softly towards her bearing the odours of the
spring. The song of birds was in the air ; not
yet with the piercing fulness of the summer
music in it, but strangely gladsome like the
young year ; the girl's elastic spirits responded

to the influences of the time ; the perplexed
and weary look her face too often wore passed
from it. ' And as she walked, she sang,' like
the pilgrims in the one perfect allegory; exercising
her sweet powerful voice in the solitude,
with such enjoyment of ber own music as
she had not felt for a long time. Only yesterday
she had been in despair ; to-day, though
nothing had happened, she was as gay as the
lark whose carol was no sweeter than her own.
The path that Mavis had taken led through
undulating fields, to the high road, which
lay for some distance deep down between
green banks and hedges  an unusual feature
in that part of the country. On the far side
were the Bassett plantations of tall slender
trees, their stems set about with a multitude of
wild flowers. Mavis ceased her singing as she
approached the boundary of the fields, whence
a few zigzag steps cut in the green bank gave
access to the road, and was walking at a swifter
pace towards the lodge gates of Bassett, when

her quick ear caught a sharp yelping cry and
the patter of feet between the hedge and the
plantation. Mavis ran lightly up the face of
the bank, and saw a small grey terrier with
a wiry coat, a meagre tail, and a distressful
expression of countenance, limping along on
three legs, with the fourth held up, as if hurt.
The intelligent little dog, meeting the enquiring
gaze of Mavis, stood still on his three legs, but
yelped anew. She sought for a conveniently
wide space in the hedge, knelt down and called
him to her ; he came, and immediately recognised
a friend. Mavis examined the wounded
paw, and found a long sharp thorn embedded
in it. She seated herself on the green bank,
took off her gloves, laid the little terrier in her
lap, and talked to him in the reasonable way
that always does with a nice dog.

I can take it out, if you'll let me, and be
good,' she said, handling the poor paw tenderly ;
you don't look as if you would bite me, even
if I did hurt you a little. It will be all right

in a minute.' She had been feeling with her
fine finger-tips for the head of the thorn, and
she now suddenly and skilfully pulled it out.
The terrier justified her good opinion of him ;
he uttered a little whine, but he did not snap
at her hand, and presently when she put him
down, and rose to her feet, the patient fell to
licking the wound with great satisfaction.

Mavis shook out her dress, thinking, with
a smile, that the little dog was as bad as the
boat, and trying to remember, as she patted
the terrier's rough head in adieu, what was the
hard name of somebody, in a classical story,
who extracted a thorn from a lion's paw. She
had just moved onward, when she again heard
steps on the other side of the hedge. This time
it was not a four-footed tread, and it was
accompanied by a lively whistling. Mavis
walked on. But the little terrier had also
caught the sounds, and recognised them ; he
scampered before her for some distance and
ran up with the liveliest demonstrations of

delight to a young man who now appeared at
the top of the bank.

Ha ! Trotty, old boy, where have you
been ? ' said the master of the terrier, and the
next moment he saw the lady passing along
the path, close under the point at which he
stood. He raised his hat. Mavis bent her head
slightly, and they went on their several ways.
For a moment it seemed as though the wiry
terrier owned a divided allegiance ; he'cocked
his ears interrogatively, turned a wistful gaze
upon his master, ran back a few steps, and
looked after the lady who had befriended him.
But the master whistled, and the little dog
followed him, puzzled, no doubt, at the unaccountable
stupidity of human beings. Here
were two persons calculated to enjoy each
other's society  they were both kind to him ;
could there be a closer bond?  and yet he
was unable to introduce them, owing to that
vexatious necessity for speech, so absurdly
imposed upon mankind.

Miss Nestle's rooms were situated in a
cheerful part of the old house, and occupied
a position of vantage. They commanded the
offices, and yet they were socially central.
Miss Nestle had a comfortable conviction that
much could not go on ' without her knowledge,
so long as the household might be descended
upon suddenly and noiselessly from her own
room. This conviction was a great help and
stay to Miss Nestle, for she was of an anxious
temperament, and entertained the firmest conviction
that ' much ' was always ' going on,'
wherever her eye, or the almost equally
efficacious dread of it, was not. They were
ideal rooms for their purpose, for they were
absolutely comfortable to the occupant, and
they formed a kind of household museum.
Lined with cupboards-guiltless of a speck of
mildew, or a grain of dust ; fitted with drawers
and closets on any item of whose miscellaneous
contents Miss Nestle could have laid an unerring
hand in the dark ; spacious, light, and

VOL. I. K

airy, Miss Nestle's rooms were the admiration
of her friends, and a source of much heartburning
to the handmaids under her firm and
uncompromising rule. Young housemaids on
their promotion, ardently desirous of a character
from 'the county,' had been known to
relinquish their project of serving on the
Bassett establishment, upon merely contemplating
the superhuman cleanliness of Miss Nestle's
rooms ; the crispness of the chintz curtains, the
polish of the mahogany furniture, and the
brilliant burnishing of the brass grates, fenders,
and fire-irons.

Audience of the housekeeper was a much
more serious ordeal than audience of the
Squire, when any error had to be acknowledged,
or shortcoming explained away; not
that Miss Nestle was a merciless person, but
that she had a genuine incapacity for understanding
how anybody should fail to do his
or her duty, and yet regard himself or herself
as fit to live. Her point of view was unchanging,

her decisions were prompt. It did not
matter, according to Miss Nestle, "whether you
left ' your corners ' unwept, or whether you
robbed a bank ; ' you were, in proportion to
your opportunities, equally unfaithful to your
employer in either case. In the one, you were
entrusted with a sweeping-brush, in the other
with the key of the safe ; in either you did
your worst ; the difference was merely conventional.
If her mind could have been got at,
it probably would have been found that Miss
Nestle carried her consistency to the point of
thinking that if a similar punishment could be
awarded to both offences it would be well.

Miss Nestle was a little woman, with a face
which would have been sharp if it had not been
round  that is to say, its shape contradicted its
features. Her keen eyes, interrogative nose,
and firm mouth displayed themselves in a
smooth and placid disc of chin, cheek, and
forehead, all of juvenile colouring, and her
abundant light hair, brushed until it shone

K 2

like glass, was put plainly away under a cap
which many a woman ten years Miss Nestle's
senior would have considered herself too
young to wear. That cap was a solemn institution
; only one having individual had ever
ventured to treat it with levity, and the good
humour with which Miss Nestle took his
impertinence gave the measure of his importance
with her. The irreverent scoffer was
Jack Bassett, who told her he was sure she
wore that awful thing to awe the maids and
scare away the men.

Miss Nestle, her rooms, and the celebrated
cap, were all at their spick-and-span-est when
Mavis arrived to visit the Squire's housekeeper,
who was regarded with great respect by the
neighbours, and who remembered Farmer
Wynn's first wife well. In the cupboard-lined
sitting-room a bright fire was burning, as only
Miss Nestle's fires burned, making no ' ash '
and observing the nice distinction between
crackle and sputter. In her chintz-covered

chair sat Miss Nestle, with her invariable key-basket
upon the crimson-covered table at lier
side, together with her workbox, a solid
structure of rosewood, with her initials on a
little mother-of-pearl tablet like a whist-counter
inserted in the lid.

She received Mavis kindly, but ran a quick
eye over her attire, to ascertain whether it had
any ' fallahshness ' about it. Fallahshness was
in Miss Nestle's vocabulary a generic term for
the evil results of London bringing-up. She
had never visited the great city, but she entertained
as bad an opinion of it as the most
intimate knowledge could have justified. Reassured
by the unpretending neatness of her
visitor's dress. Miss Nestle plunged cosily into
a conversation which consisted chiefly of
questions on her part and answers on that of
Mavis, concerning the details of her uncle
Jeffrey's illness and death, and the process of
her own ' settling down ' at Field-flower Farm.

You'll find a deal to do, my dear, for I'm

told Mrs. Wynn is but a poor creature in
health, so you will have to be active and look
after things. It can't be all reading and
writing with you now ; no, nor all playing the
piano either, as your father says it has been.
You'll be settling down, you know.'

While Miss Nestle spoke thus, in the
distinct staccato tone used by certain persons
in speaking to small children, she cast an
upward glance at the presses which lined
the opposite wall, as though she foresaw
a long career of potting and preserving for
Mavis, now happily rescued from frivolous
pursuits.

I shall have to help, of course,' said Mavis,
with a little hesitation, on which Miss Nestle
instantly pounced.

You are not going to give way to fallalish-
ness, I hope. That would never do. Depend
upon it, my dear, there's nothing li knowing
one's place, and keeping oneself in it. What I
always say, and what I always will say, is :

Keep yourself in your place, and then you can
respect yourself, and other people can respect
you.' This sententious sentiment was so well
known to Miss Nestle's intimates, that a saucy
still-room maid, being at the time ' under
notice,' had once observed it was a wonder
Belshazzar the parrot, who lived in Miss Nestle's
parlour, had not learned the saying by rote
long ago.

And I'm sorry to say there's a great deal
of the other kind of thing going on. Young
people that are above their station are safe to
get into trouble, for they're just fit for no place
at all.'

I did not mean that  I am not so foolish,'
said Mavis ; ' I only meant that I have not been
used to a farm, and my uncle and aunt thought
I should be a good teacher of music, after a
time. I must not give up my music, must I ? '

No, I suppose not,' admitted Miss Nestle,
grudgingly ; ' but I hope you'll never want to
teach music, or anything else, my dear. What

I like is to see girls useful and happy in their
parents' homes, until such time as they have
homes of their own provided for them by husbands
of their own station and way of life.
When things are like this, girls can keep themselves
in their place, and then they can respect
themselves, and other people can respect them.'

Jesty ! Have you got any Friar's Balsam
in the Museum ? '

The voice came from the door, and Miss
Nestle turned her head sharply in that direction.
A good-looking young man, with merry
blue eyes, a sunburnt complexion, and a very
pleasant smile, had entered the room unheard
by her, and was standing near the door, holding
his soft felt hat (known in those days as a
wide awake) in his left hand, and a wiry grey
terrier under his right arm.

Goodness ! Mr. Jack, is it you ? ' exclaimed
Miss Nestle, ' and wanting Friar's Balsam
! Of course I've got it. It is in the Store-medicine
division of the second press, on the

third shelf from the top ; but I shall have to
fetch the steps to get it.'

I'll fetch the steps, Justest,' said the intruder,
coming forward and bowing to Mavis,
who acknowledged his salutation with a very
becoming blush ; ' I beg your pardon for
intruding in this way.'

Not at all, Mr. Jack,' said Miss Nestle ;
it's only Farmer Wynn's daughter come to seeme.
What's wrong, that Friar's Balsam 's
wanted ? '

Mr. Jack, having adroitly treated Miss
Nestle's rejoinder as an introduction of himself
to Mavis, addressed her : 

My dog has hurt his paw. Miss Wynn, I
don't know how ; he went lame suddenly, and
he has a bad scratch ; '  here Mr. Jack set the
terrier down, and that sagacious creature gave
Mavis a sniff and a pleasant bark of friendly
recognition  ' so I came to the Museum for
Miss Nestle's cure-all.'

Oh, then, it's for Trotty Neck you want it.

Mr. Jack. I was afraid you lead been up to
some mischief of your own. Here, Trotty,
Trotty Veck, let me see what has! happened to
you. Bless the dog, he won't come near me !
Any one would think he knew you, Mavis.'

Mavis ! ' said Mr. Jack to himself, ' what a
pretty name ! '

I believe he does know me,' said Mavis, as
she stooped over the dog, and smoothed his
hard little skull, while he winked his gratification.
' We have met already. I can tell you
how he was hurt. It was a thorn, and it ran
very deep into his foot. I was passing the
hedge at the time. I saw him limping and
in great pain, so I took the thorn out, and he
remembers me.'

Mavis did not get through this explanation
without some embarrassment, for the merry
eyes of Trotty Neck's master were fixed upon
her, and though she was looking down she was
conscious of that fact ; nor did her embarrassment
escape the notice of Miss JSTestle. This

was as it should be ; the farmer's daughter was
becomingly gratified by the notice of the
Squire's son.

I'm sure we are both  myself and Trotty
Veck, I mean  very much obliged to you, Miss
Wynn,' said Mr. Jack ; ' it was very kind and
very clever of you to come to his aid like that.
How do you like his name ? ' he continued, immediately
assuming their community of interest
in the terrier, after the fashion of all true lovers
of animals.

I don't know,' said Mavis, raising her head
and meeting his eyes for the first time ; ' it is an
odd name ; not like a dog's. Why did you call
hin Trotty Veck .'

Don't you know " The Chimes," Miss
Wynn ? Aren't you up in your Dickens ?
Don't you remember the patient little ticket-porter
with the good daughter, waiting for a
job in the angle of the wall, with all the spirits
floating out of the bells ? You do ? Ah, I
thought so. Well, I called him Trotty Veck,

because he is so like the ticket-porter in the
face, and has just the same springy, on-the-go
sort of look  you see it, don't you ? '

He isn't very springy just at this moment,
is he ? ' said Mavis, with a smile which Mr.
Jack mentally noted as ' heavenly : ' ' but I know
exactly what you mean. He is a dear dog, and
of course you are very fond of him.'

Mr. Jack felt an unaccountable desire to
say that he should be much more fond of Trotty
Neck from that day forward ; but mingled
bashfulness and discretion restrained him.

While this dialogue was in progress, the
practical-minded Miss Nestle slipped out of the
room, reappeared with a light mahogany step-ladder,
and mounted to the investigation of the
third shelf in the Store-Medicine division of
the second cupboard, and the research of Friar's
Balsam. At this moment, Mr. Jack pretended
to become aware for the first time of what
she was doing, and vigorously assisted her.
Trotty 's foot was dabbed with the panacea, and

then there did not seem to be any valid reason
why Mr. Jack should not go on his way,
especially as Miss Nestle persisted in standing
by the side of the table, in an attitude of respectful
waiting which he could not pretend to
misunderstand. He could not go on talking
any longer about the dog, and the fortunate
thing it was that Miss Wynn had seen Trotty
(neither he nor Mavis hinted at their having
observed each other on that interesting occasion),
and he could not think of anything else to talk
about. Miss Nestle came to his aid, without
intention, by saying :

I was going to take Mavis Wynn to seethe
rooms, Mr. Jack. She's got to be at home
by dinner-time.'

Then I'll come round with you and Miss
Wynn  if she will allow me. It's ever so long
since I've been in the old rooms. There is not
much to see; you must not expect curiosities.'

You're used to fine places ; other folks are
not, Mr. Jack,' remarked Miss Nestle, severely.

Her susceptibilities were slightly ruffled. Mr.
Jack was just a little too polite to Mavis. To
talk about Miss Wynn allowing him to accompany
her, and to suggest that she could fail to
be impressed with the grandeur of the house,
was a departure from the golden rule of keeping
himself in his place. As the trio quitted
the room, leaving Trotty Veck, invested with
the privileges of an invalid, to enjoy the fire
and Miss Nestle's large and comfortable footstool,
there was discontent in the shake of the
celebrated cap.

Mavis was taken to see all the glories of the
ancient house, and her companions expatiated
on them, each in a characteristic way. The
books, and the family portraits pleased Mavis
most. To hive among those pictures, and to be
able to read all those books, would be an enviable
lot. Mavis thought, and then she wondered
whether there was a portrait of Mr. Jack's
mother anywhere, but reproved herself immediately.
That would be, of course, in one

of Squire Bassett's own rooms, not to be seen
by every comer.

In the great drawing-room stood a handsome
grand pianoforte. The sight of this
object was to Mavis what the sight of wine
would be to a toper who had not seen a bottle,
or the sight of a box of cigars to a smoker who
had not smelt tobacco, for a purgatorial age ;
she longed inexpressibly to run her fingers over
the keys. Miss Nestle demanded her attention
for the heraldic carvings of the mantelpiece,
but her eyes turned so reluctantly from the
piano that her guide could not but notice her
preoccupation.

It is a beautiful bit of rosewood,' said Miss
Nestle, complacently. ' I have heard say they
don't make them like that nowadays,  and a
splendid polish. I have kept it bright ; I don't
hold with covers.'

The piano has a fine tone, no doubt.'

Do try it, Miss Wynn. You play, I know
you do, I can see you do,' cried Mr. Jack,

impetuously endeavouring to open the instrument.


Oh no, no, pray don't,' said Mavis, shrinking
back in great confusion.

Mr. Jack, what are you thinking of ? '
remonstrated Miss Nestle. ' Of course the
grand piano is always kept locked, except when
there's company.'

Is it, Testy ? ' said Mr. Jack, coaxingly ;
then you've got the key, and you'll let Miss
Wynn try the piano.'

But Mavis did not give Miss Nestle time to
answer him. She said she must go, that she
ought to be at home now, and must hurry
away. She would look at the tapestry another
day, if Miss Nestle would allow her.

If she was what's called a lady  for a real
lady she certainly is,' said Jack Bassett to himself,
' and she had come here alone, I should
have offered to walk home with her as a matter
of course ; but because she's Farmer Wynn's
daughter, I mustn't. It would not be the thing
to do. And that's manners ! ' . . .

I saw young Mr. Bassett,' Mavis said to
Mrs. Wynn ; 'he came to the housekeeper's
room for something he wanted.'

Well, and what do you think of him ? '

Of his looks, do you mean ? He is very
pleasant and happy-looking.'

Yes ; he's all that. I suppose he'll be
going off to his regiment soon  and a handsome
officer he'll make. No wonder the
Squire's so proud of him. Miss Nestle says he's
to marry some great lady, but I don't remember
her name, when he's old enough.'

Oh, indeed,' said Mavis. She added, after
a minute : ' Young Mr. Bassett has a dear little
dog, with a queer name  Trotty Veck.'

He always was such a one for dogs.
But, Mavis, do you know Mr. Eeckitts is only
just gone, and your father has taken him in
the car to the station. I never saw him at all ;
I had orders to stay upstairs. There's something
more up than selling the old oak, depend
upon it.'

VOL I.

CHAPTEE VII,

JACK.

Jack Bassett had been two days at home, but
he was still ignorant of the change that had
passed upon the Squire's fortunes. There was
so much similarity between the state of mind
of both father and son that each felt reluctant
to enter upon the matter foremost in his
thoughts. The letter of reproof and remonstrance
that the Squire had been planning and
putting off when Mr. Dexter brought the bad
news to Bassett, had never got itself written.
What the Squire really did write to his son
was : ' Come home at once, and let us talk things
over.' Jack Bassett came home, and was
received by his father without the smallest
symptom of a disposition to blame or call him

to account for anything. How was he to break
in upon this blissful state of things with a penitent
narrative of his fooHsh expenditure, and
the manner in which he had been ' let in * by
a couple of fellows who were in ' holes,' out of
which their respective ' governors ' would not
help them, as Jack knew his ' governor ' would
have helped him had he been so green as
either of them. The truth was that Jack
Bassett had been considerably the greenest of
the three, and now he knew it ; but this correction
of his impressions rendered it more
difficult for him to speak to his father. All
the way down in the train he had been wondering
what he should say, and he had hoped
the esquire would begin that talking-over of
things which Jack dreaded and disliked as
much as most young people, likewise the
middle-aged and old, dread and dislike the
facing of a difficulty.

Jack knew it was not the money the
Squire would mind so much ; it was his having

l2

made a fool of himself in more than one way.
And yet his second day at home was wearing
on to evening, and not a word had been said
by his father about those peccadilloes which
Jack was conscious he had considerably extenuated
in his written communications.

The Squire was looking worn and grave 
Jack had sufficient grace to feel an accusing
twinge as he noted the deepened hues in his
father's face and the absent expression of his
eyes  the bad quarter of an hour was going
to be a really bad, though plainly not an
angry one. Anger on his father's part was
completely out of his experience ; the Squire
had always been gentle to a fault with the boy ;
father and mother both,' people said, when
Jack was a child. The bad quarter of an hour
seemed to be hanging off, however ; and Jack,
to whom it never occurred that his father had
any trouble of his own on which he, too, was
reluctant to enter, allowed his high spirits
to have their way, and presented a remarkably

cheerful aspect to everybody about the
place.

'My besetting sin, procrastination,' the
Squire had said to Mr. Dexter ; and if that was
not the gravest, it certainly was an important
defect in his character. In the present instance,
most people would have been disposed
to regard it leniently, for the Squire had
a hard thing to do. The sight of his son
was like summer sunshine to his eyes : he
allowed them to enjoy it for a little while.
The disappoint ment, anxiety, and apprehension
that he had been full of when he pondered
over and put off his letter to Jack were now
reduced to trifling proportions ; the greater
trouble had swallowed up the less ; nothing of
what Jack was thinking about was in his
father's mind.

A third day might have elapsed without
recording Jack Bassett's bad quarter of an
hour among its incidents, but for certain occurrences
which combined to oblige the Squire to

take his courage in his two hands. On the
third morning the post brought a letter for Mr.
Bassett from Mr. Dexter, and one for Jack
from Sir Henry Trescoe, a neighbour and
friend. The Squire put Mr. Dexter 's letter in
his pocket and said nothing about it, but Jack
with great satisfaction imparted to him the
contents of Sir Henry's missive.

There's a lot of people staying at Trescoe,
and Sir Henry invites me for three days. He
says he knows of old it's no good asking you.
How jolly it was there at Christmas ! '

Is it for this week or next ? *

Tor Thursday,' said Jack, pushing the
note across the breakfast-table towards his
father, who looked at it absently and laid it
down, while Jack indulged in reminiscences
of his last visit to Trescoe Park, chiefly referring
to horses and dogs.

'You wish to go there, then?' said the
Squire, abruptly, when Jack came to a pause.

Yes ; that is, if you don't mind,' added

Jack, slightly confused, for it occurred to him
that his father might think it rather soon for
him to leave home. Consideration of the
Squire's feelings was one of Jack's good points'.

I don't mind at all, my dear boy.'

The Squire left the table, and stood on the
hearth rug in silence. Jack felt very uncomfortable
; the bad quarter of an hour was casting
its shadow before it. His spirits vanished, and
he left off eating toast and marmalade.

I have letters to write,' said the Squire, at
length, 'but I want you by-and-by. What
were you thinking of doing this morning ? '

'There's that pointer pup at Fieldflower
Farm that Wynn was talking of,' said Jack, v-zith
an unaccustomed sensation of warmth about his
ears ; ' I was thinking of having a look at it.
But, of course, there's plenty of time for that in
the afternoon.'

Come to the workroom in an hour,' said the
Squire, and then he went away hastily, regardless
of his newspapers. Poor Jack sat staring

disconsolately at the coffee-pot, until an admonitory
paw placed on his knee reminded him that
Trotty Neck liked a lump of sugar o' mornings.
It's very bad for you, I believe,' said Jack,
severely, as he carefully selected the properties
lump, which was bolted by Trotty with a
grateful snap, ' but you may as well have it.

Come along.'

*****

It is as well there has been something to
make me do it to-day,' said the Squire to himself,
as he prepared to write to Mr. Dexter, ' or
I do believe I should still have put it off. But
this makes it so plain that the change must be
thorough, I can't let my boy go on talking of
what is never to be.'

Squire Bassett's letter was a long one, and
not easy to write. There had been no urgent
occasion in the Squire's affairs for that kind of
minute method which is to some men a distinct
and palpable pleasure, while to others it is a
simple impossibility, and now that he had to look

at everything all round, he could not make his
resources come up to the general estimate of
them at which he and Mr. Dexter had arrived.
The purport of his letter was to point out to his
adviser that the change in his position must be
even more radical than they had contemplated.
At that point the Squire paused, and held his
pen suspended over the nearly filled sheet. He
wrote a small neat hand, of a kind which
generally goes with much reading, annotating,
and extract making, and his epistolary method
was of the polished and careful kind that has
not been so completely discarded by the men as
by the women of the present generation. The
long pauses, and the effort that it cost him to
add the concluding paragraph, were out of proportion
to the seeming simplicity of the matter
of it, for it contained merely these words : 

The details of your interview with Monsieur
Eeveillon are curious ; the result is, I should
think, much more important than was anticipated.
Believe me, I thoroughly appreciate

your motives, and I quite understand your
views, but I must ask you to say no more. I do
not wish to be informed of anything beyond the
facts which you have now told me.'

The Squire, having written his letter, rose
and walked to and fro, thinking, until he heard
steps on the terrace, and presently saw Jack, with
Trotty Neck at his heels, at the French window.
He admitted the young fellow, who glanced at
him rather shyly as he said, ' Here I am, sir, upto
time, I hope,' and his heart was sore for the
beloved son who had all his troubles before
him.

   9r *|$

Almost the worst of it is that what I have
to tell you about myself  for you don't know it
all yet  will make this harder for you. I've
been a fool, father, and more than a fool.'

The young fellow's tone was full of remorse,
and tears stood in his eyes. ' The best of it,'
replied his father, ' is that you feel thus. The
worst of it to me, much the worst, is the change

to you. We will not talk or think of any follies
or mistakes on your part now ; they are swept
away by a more serious calamity, and I am sure
nothing of the sort would have occurred again.'

I hope not, father,' said Jack, much moved
by the Squire's ready forgiveness and unshaken
trust ; ' but I've had a lesson in not thinking too
well of myself, and so I won't say I'm quite
sure.'

That is right. You do well to distrust
yourself, and I do well to trust you. As things
are, we may both take it as certain that you will
never incur debts which neither you nor I can
hope to pay ; and, that being so, let me have a
memorandum of everything you owe. everything
mind. Jack ; don't make the mistake
of keeping anything back  it will only be a
skeleton in a closet if you do  and you shall
have the money at once. The lecture I meant
to administer to you in visiting shall be taken as
read, and you and I will look the future in the
face together.'

Jack Bassett was not given to introspection,
or afflicted with self-consciousness; but, if he
had thought about it, he might have dated
his ceasing to be a boy and becoming a man
from that particular hour.

He was conscious that there was an immense
gulf set between yesterday and to-day,
and that he had as completely done with his
old self in certain respects as he had done with
the short jacket and peaked cap which distinguished
the garb of boyhood in his time.
The facts were bewildering, even with his
father's full and free explanation ; but Jack
had never heard much about the big lawsuit.
It had been a dim but not a terrible image to
him, something which he did not distinguish
from mortgages, charges, and so forth ; things
impartially set down by him as nuisances, inseparable,
he supposed, from the possession of
landed property, and exclusively within the
province of Mr. Dexter. He had never been
troubled with a prevision that the suit might

interfere with him personally, to blight his
hopes and obstruct his purposes. The revelation
took him entirely by surprise. No latent
suspicion or apprehension leaped up into light,
to aid the Squire in his task, and that task was
as hard as he expected to find it.

There was, however, solace in the good
and noble trait that showed itself in Jack's
first spontaneous utterance, and the Squire's
burden was sensibly lightened by this. The
very change that fell upon his son's face, as
the conversation proceeded, was pleasing to
the Squire to see ; for it was the impress of
strength and composure set upon the countenance
of one who had hitherto had no call for
either.

The talk that was begun in the book-room
was continued upon the terrace ; the two
walked up and down there in the spring sunshine,
the father leaning closely on the arm
of the son, and feeling, in the very depth and
intensity of his concern and commiseration for

him, a closer companionship than had ever
before existed between them.

Jack was not even like what the Squire
must have been in his youth ; the hues of his
face were different, and the thoughtful inward
look of the father was not to be found in the
eyes of the son. The one had the expression
of a man of books ; the other that of a man
who was ready for a life of action when the
chance should come to him. There was courage
as well as lightheartedness in Jack's merry
blue eyes, and determination in the hues of
his well-cut, not too delicate, mouth and chin.
A bright, sociable, honourable young fellow,
who might, perhaps, have no extraordinary
brains, but would belie his looks if he ever
failed to produce at need sufficient intelligence
to get him creditably through life ; this is just
what Jack Bassett looked like and what he
was. Not an heroic figure, but a simple and
a manly one ; the sort of person of whom
gentle, kindly-natured women vere apt to say,

How fond of him his mother would have
been ! '

This record of some incidents in Jack
Bassett's career has to do, not with the details,
but with the result of that conference. It
was entirely confirmatory of the Squire's view
of his son's character ; the tenacity, which he
had been inclined to rate more highly than
Mr. Dexter regarded it, came out very strongly.
Jack had never thought of himself in the future
as anything but a soldier, and he was not
going to be moved by what had happened to
think of himself as anything but a soldier now.
A soldier he would be, and if the dazzling
portion of his vision, the career of the ' light
dragoon,' with its dash, its extravagance, its
pleasure, its prestige, and the tinge of romance
that still hung about it, and was so soon to
be deepened in its tints by war, glory, and
poetry, had to be relinquished Jack comprehended
at once that it must be  there would
be left the plain and solid portion. It was

not difficult to get a commission in a line
regiment ; if his father could not allow him
anything, why then he could, and would, live
on his pay. He knew what that would mean
the next thing to the impossible, but only
the next ; while it was not the absolutely impossible
he could do it. But rather than not
be a soldier, rather than be anything else.
Jack Bassett would serve in the ranks. Did
his father know the splendid chances that were
coming, and how impossible it would be for
Jack to turn his mind to any civil pursuit ?
The Squire, although he had never been
troubled with a military aspiration of his own,
entered with sympathy into the feelings that
he had foreseen.

If it lay within his power to get for Jack
his own way, the boy should have it. A
thwarted desire should not be added to fallen
fortunes. There was something in Jack's resolution
that rang true; at all events, it had
not been the mere external glitter of a military

life that had attracted his son. This pleased
the Squire, although, so far as the desired
object was concerned, no hen could less have
shared the propensity of her duckling-chick to
take the water.

Perhaps this very strangeness also pleased
him. Like most studious and scholarly men,
Squire Bassett was a great novel-reader. The
romance of military life as Maxwell depicted
it, its pomp and dash as Lever drew them, had
given him pleasure of an intense kind, but
pleasure as abstract and as infectious as that
with which he read the 'Arabian Nights,' or
narratives of Arctic exploration. From the
first, he had acquiesced in the boy's choice
of a profession ; but now he seemed to see
that it was something more, that it was a
vocation, and with that perception came a resolution
that this thing should be.

The machinery that in the good old times
before Abolition of Purchase converted a youth
who could pull through at Sandhurst into a
VOL. I. M

young gentleman bearing her Majesty's commission,
was very different from that which now
accomplishes a Uke result. It implied not only
the expenditure of more money, but the employment
of interest ; and both had been provided
for in Jack's case, on the supposition that
he was going to be a light dragoon of the
approved type, with a liberal allowance, and the
prospective inheritance of the Bassett estate to
lend ease and distinction to that career. But
the money had now to be withdrawn, and the
interest to be turned into another channel, and
the talk between the Squire and his son did not
come to an end until the proceedings to betaken
in this new conjuncture of affairs had
been arranged.

It was surprising, but true, that at the close
of this momentous interview Jack was in much
better spirits than he had been at its beginning.
He knew the worst ; and was it so bad after
all? Yes, it was very bad; not all Jack's
youth and spirits could obscure his commonsense

; but it might have been so much worse I
There might have been nothing at all saved out
of the wreck of their fortunes, and then what
should he have come to ? A clerk's desk, perhaps
; but no, that could never have been while
the Queen's shilling was within reach. However,
he had to be grateful that the worst was
only what it was. As Jack obeyed his father's
suggestion that he should try to ' walk it off,'
while the Squire himself was adding a postscript
to his letter to Mr. Dexter, to tell him how
uncommonly well the boy had behaved, he felt.
that strange elation which sometimes comes to
strong natures when a great demand is made
upon them, however painful it may be.

It would, however, have been pitiful to a
keen observer to notice the quickened interest
with which Jack Bassett looked around him, ashe
took his way past the stables and the back
of the gardens, down by the old fishpond,
and struck into the roadside plantation out of
which Trotty Neck had run the day before.

M 2

There was in his look something like the
quickened curiosity of a stranger. This was
his home ; all these places and objects were
familiar to him ; why did he look at them
to-day as though they were full of novelty?
Because, for the first time in his life, he looked
at them with the fear of losing them at his
heart. The Squire had said that the horses
must go, and the land must be let ' up to the
windows.' But this would surely not be
necessary, if only he, Jack, should be able todo
with very little ? Still, he had listened to
the horses, rustling and stamping in their comfortable
stalls, as he passed the stables, and his
glance had rested lingeringly on the smooth
lawn and the fine trees, with their pleasure-ground
aspect.

One of the effects of a sudden change was
making itself evident to Jack ; it felt like a longtime
since yesterday, since this morning ; it
seemed as if, all things being so different, he
could not possibly be the same. Not that he

was thinking it out methodically ; there was no
such systematic wisdom and cold-blessedness
about him ; his mind was, so to speak, in a
great whirl, and amid his confused feelings
only two were clear and persistent. He hoped
Mr. Dexter would not declare the Line also to
be out of the question, and he wondered what
all the fellows would say.

It was early in the year for Mrs. Wynn to
carry her needlework out of doors, but the
fineness of the day and the weariness of her
spirits had tempted her into the arbour boathouse,
during the absence of Mavis, who had
gone to see the curate in charge about the
church music for the next Sunday. The parsonage
was in the neighbourhood of Squire
Bassett's house, and Mavis on this occasion also
availed herself of the short cut effected by
crossing the river. Thus, when Jack, in the
course of his walk, came to the fields facing
(with the river between) the ancient side of
Fieldflower Farm, he found the boat fastened

to its post, and, looking across, saw Mrs. Wynn
sitting in the arbour. Although he had not
forgotten his purpose of visiting the farm, or
that subtle pretext of the pointer pup, he had
not taken the path over the bridge by which
he would have reached the front gate ; he had
not been thinking of where he was going, and
the sight of the boat was a suggestion on which
he acted promptly. Making a speaking-trumpet
of his hands. Jack shouted to the
occupant of the arbour :

How do you do, Mrs. Wynn ? I am coming
across.'

Mrs. Wynn rose hurriedly, dropping her
needlework, and received 'Mr. Jack,' as he
stepped out of the boat, with her usual half-frightened
respect. Wynn was not in the way,
she said ; he had gone to Chester, and she
hoped she saw Mr. Jack well.

She saw Mr. Jack very well indeed, and
very glad to be at Bassett again and to see all his
friends. What fine weather they were having.

and how jolly the old place was looking ! Mr.
Jack was a little disjointed in his talk, and
rather fidgety in his manner, looking about him
a good deal, sitting down and getting up again,
and not attending much to Mrs. Wynn's civilities.
She was disturbed by Wynn's absence, when
Mr. Jack was so kind as to come to the farm,
and he such a little time at home too !

Never mind about that, Mrs. Wynn,' said
Jack, in that cheery tone which the poor
woman declared to Mavis did her as much
good as the hymns on Sunday ; ' I've lots of
time on my hands. I can come to see Wynn
and the pup any day.'

It's a beauty, Mr. Jack.'

I'm sure of that. But how came the
boat on the other side ? Wynn wouldn't use it ;
he's gone the other way.'

Oh no, ]mr. Jack,' answered Mrs. Wynn ;
it was Mavis  that's Wynn's daughter, you
know. She's come home to live with us now
since her Aunt and Uncle Jeffrey's death.

She's gone down to the parsonage, and she
took the boat across.'

I must return as I came then, and leave it
back for Miss Wynn. I had the pleasure of
meeting her yesterday ; she was very good to
my dog, Trotty Neck. I should have brought
Trotty to see you, Mrs. Wynn, for you really
do know a good dog when you see one, only
that he is still a little lame. Did you say
Miss Wynn had been gone some time ? '

Since just after dinner. I could let you
see the pup now, if you liked, Mr. Jack.'

No, no, thank you, I think I will not
mind it to-day. It would be better to wait for
Wynn, perhaps. You must be glad to have
Miss Wynn with you ; it has been rather lonely
for you, and Miss Nestle says you haven't been
very well since Christmas, when I was at home
last.'

Now this was just what Mrs. Wynn liked
in Mr. Jack ; for a young gentleman like him
he was so knowledgeable and kind in his ways.

Why, even when he was quite a boy, he would
speak nice and quiet, and keep from knocking
things about, on account of her poor head ; a
plea which had no chance whatever with her
ordinary surroundings. Praise of this simple
kind lavished upon the object of their common
admiration, constituted Mrs. Wynn's chief contributions
to the conversation when she and
Miss Nestle, of whom the farmer's wife was
rather afraid, met. This was well, for it mollified
the contempt with which Miss Nestle was
disposed to regard Mrs. Wynn, on account of
her feeble notions of housekeeping, and lack
of enthusiasm for that fine and precious art,

It is very friendly of Miss Nestle to think
about my health, I'm sure, Mr. Jack, and it is
but poorly at the best of times, as she knows.
But Mavis is a good companion to me, and if
it was not for herself I should be very glad of
her coming home.'

'But why "for herself?' asked Jack,
with frank curiosity, taking a seat on the

bench by Mrs. Wynn's side ; ' isn't it all right
for her too ? '

Well, no, Mr. Jack, it isn't quite ; because
Mavis has had such a good education, you see,
on account of her Uncle and Aunt Jeffrey being
in that line, and there's no way here for her to
keep it up. There's no books, except those
old ones in Wynn's room, and her own, that's
mostly school prizes, and there's no way for
her music unless it's the church hymns on
Sundays. So, that,' added Mrs. Wynn, pulling
herself up with a sudden consciousness
that there was not much to interest a young
gentleman in all this, ' is why it is not so good
for her as it is for me. But I beg your pardon,
Mr. Jack, for talking about it to you.'

Not at all, not at all. Of course I quite
see that it must be an awful bore for Miss
Wynn to have no books and no piano ; but
isn't that Miss Wynn coming from the far side
of the field opposite ? In black, with a straw
hat?'

Yes,' said Mrs. Wynn, bending forward to
follow the indication of his hand ; ' that is
Mavis.'

Jack got into the boat without a word
more, pulled across the stream, and advanced
towards the figure coming slowly  for Mavis
was reading a sheet of music as she walked 
on the other side. Mrs. Wynn watched him
as he neared the girl, unconscious of his
presence, and, raising his hat, addressed her.
Then she saw Mavis pause  they spoke together
 and presently walked down to the
water's edge.

i have made free with your boat already
once to-day,' said Jack, ' and now you must
let me take you across.'

But who is to take you back again, for
the boat must be housed ? ' Mavis asked, with
an unembarrassed smile. ' We should be like
the people who saw each other home until
morning.'

Not at all ; I shall go back by the road.'

He placed her in the boat  it was pleasant
to be thus waited on like a lady  she had
been long enough at home to have her perceptions
sharpened on that point  and they were
presently in the middle of the little river.

Jack ceased to ply the sculls, and looked
deliberately about him.

What a pity it's so short a pull across,' he
said ; ' this is just the sort of day for a good
row ; a few minutes of it is only tantalising.
Must I really take you straight over . '

Jack had discovered yesterday that Farmer
Wynn's daughter was very unlike what she might
have been expected to be ; he had now made
the farther discovery that her eyes were of his
favourite colour, and also that her speech
was as sweet-toned as some other women's
singing. She had not uttered more than half
a dozen sentences to him, but that did not
matter at all ; there are moods in which impressions
are rapid, and there are natures on
which all impressions are deeply made.

Mrs. Wynn is looking out for fine,' said
Mavis, simply, ' and there will be father's tea
to see to.'

How Jack hated Mavis's father, and how he
resented his tea ! He could have ' squared ' Mrs.
Wynn easily, but there was impossibility in
Mavis's quiet reply. The idea of a girl like
this one, with such eyes and such a voice,
having to ' see to ' anybody's tea, aroused in
Jack's breast a sudden antagonism to the
existing order of things.

He lingered about for some time after he
had housed the boat, and talked in his youthful
pleasant way. Mrs. Wynn and Mavis were,
however, so uneasy and constrained that he could
not fail to see it, and reluctantly took his departure,
having made a formal appointment,
subject to Farmer Wynn's convenience, for the
inspection of the pointer pup on the following
day.

They were horribly uncomfortable about
his coming home,' thought Jack. ' He has

always been pleased to see me at the farm, soit
could not be that. I suspect he's a bit of a
brute to that poor delicate wife of his. I
wonder how he treats his daughter.'

It was surprising how hot and angry the
doubt involved in this speculation made Jack
Bassett feel. His visit to Fieldflower Farm
was only an episode in the history of a momentous
day in the young man's life ; only an
interval between the disclosure of the morning
and the resolution and action which had to betaken
as its consequence; a trifling incident
hardly worth recording. In the time to
come, however, when his recollection of the
serious events of that day had grown dim,
when he could not have quoted his father's
words, or recalled his own sensations on hearing
them, every trivial detail of that episode,
every moment of that interval, every look,
word, and gesture which had marked the insignificant
interview between himself and Mavis
Wynn was distinct and present to him. Who

is there that can define the strictly commonplace
in his own life, or infallibly discern it in
another's ?

Mr. Bassett and his son had always been
very good company for each other ; for nothing
that concerned or interested Jack could fail to
occupy his Either. They were even better
company than usual that evening. Neither
had now any concealment from the other, and
this relief made itself felt at their cheerful
tete-astute dinner, although the topic of the
morning was not referred to until afterwards.
Then the Squire told Jack that he intended to
go up to London, and transact his business in
person.

We will start together,' said the Squire,
on Thursday ; you can take me to Chester
before you go to Trescoe Park.'

CHAPTER VIII.

EARLY DAYS.

On the following day Jack Bassett walked over
to Fieldflower Farm, accompanied by Trotty
Veck, who was now convalescent. He wanted
to see the pointer pup, being indeed unaccountably
desirous of conciliating its owner,
and he also wanted to see Mavis, and induce
her to promise that she would come to the
House and keep up her music by playing on
the unused pianoforte. If he made her the
invitation, he felt sure neither the Squire nor
Miss Nestle would seriously oppose it, but he
thought it more prudent to say nothing to Miss
Nestle beforehand. He had a prophetic dread
that she might propound her favourite axiom
to either the Squire or himself as an objection.

There were the books, too ; he was glad Mrs.
Wynn had mentioned Mavis's privations in that
respect ; he would take her some books, and
tell her that the contents of the library were at
her disposal. What sort of reading did she
like? he wondered. There were lots of novel
among the Bassett books, and the Squire took
in the important serials. It was the golden
prime of Dickens, and Thackeray was a world's
wonder at that time. Jack, who was no reader,
hoped that Mavis preferred Lever, as he did,
and finally set off with ' Tom Burke of Ours '
under his arm.

The first part of his mission sped fairly
well. Wynn was in the farmyard, and he
received the Squire's sou with what stood for
cordiality with him. He was indeed quite
good-humoured, and not only took the visitor
into the big parlour, but addressed his wife
civilly with the remark that Mr. Jack had
come to see her. Any reference to his daughter
would have seemed superfluous to Wynn, even

VOL. I. H"

had she been present, but she was not. The
conversation went on in a constrained and
halting manner, until a fortunate summons
took the farmer away, when Jack boldly stated
that he had brought some books for Miss
Wynn, and also propounded his views about
the piano.

'It's very kind indeed of you, Mr. Jack,'
said Mrs. Wynn, ' and Mavis will be just delighted
with the books ; she misses them sorely,
though it's little time she has for reading.'

What has she to do, then ? '

A many things, and pretty well all day
long. Wynn isn't one to like books about ; he
thinks reading is idle work for women ; and as
for the piano, I'm sure we're very thankful for
your thinking of such a thing  there's few
young gentlemen like you that would  but
there would be no good in even mentioning it.'

Why ? ' asked Jack, with an angry sparkle
in his eyes. ' I should have thought, from
what you said yesterday, she would like it.'

So she would, but it isn't her king that's
the question. Wynn would never let her waste
her time like that ; it's quite a wonder that he
gave in about the singing in church.'

What's the good of learning to play the
piano, and then giving it up ? Miss Wynn will
forget it all if she doesn't practise  at least I've
heard that sort of thing said to girls,' remonstrated
Jack, with a burning consciousness that
he was making a fool of himself ; ' and I suppose
it's the same for all of them.'

I suppose so ; but Wynn thinks it does not
matter about her losing the music. She only
learned because her uncle was a teacher ; she is
nought but a farmer's daughter, you know, Mr.
Jack, and Wynn don't want her to be above her
station.'

But she is above her station, and Wynn
can't prevent it,' said Jack, rashly ; ' she's just
as ladylike as she's pretty, and clever, and  and
that. It is a shame to try and keep her back.
I'm sure you don't wish to do it.'

N 2

No, I don't indeed ; but I can't go against
Wynn, and I'm sure he wouldn't hear of her
going up to the House to play on the piano.
Thank you, very much, all the same, sir, but
I think none of us had better say anything
about it.'

This was said so seriously, and with such an
air of taking Jack into the speaker's confidence,
that he was immediately convinced. From that
moment the image of Mavis, already sufficiently
attractive to the young man, was invested with
the additional charm lent by suspicion and
dawning dislike of her father. The ' bit of a
brute ' theory of Farmer Wynn's character was
gaining confirmation in Jack's mind.

'Very well, then, I won't,' he said, reluctantly
; ' but I am very sorry you think Miss
Wynn cannot have this little pleasure. She
isn't in, I suppose ? ' Jack put this question
with so ridiculously unsuccessful an assumption
of its having occurred to him to ask it quite
accidentally, that it must have amused any one

with a sense of humour. Mrs. Wynn had none,
and she answered in entire good faith : ' No,
she isn't in. There's a choir practice on Wednesdays
at the parsonage, and Mavis is there.'

Jack took his leave after this with remarkable
celerity, and wended his way towards the
parsonage. He had no distinct notion of what
he was about, for he could hardly hope to
be admitted to the choir-practice. Fortune
favoured him ; he met Mavis just as she was
about to ascend the zigzag steps leading to the
path across the fields, and there was no third
person within sight to witness their meeting.
He had walked very quickly  it was a good
distance round by the road  and he greeted
Mavis eagerly, congratulating himself on his
good luck in not having missed her. Mavis
was surprised, pleased, a little fluttered, and as
Jack stepped up the bank before her, and offered
her his hand to accomplish the easy ascent,
while he reminded her that it was just there, but
on the opposite side, he had seen her first, the

swift tinge of colour that occasionally lent a
peculiar charm to her face passed over it.
Jack Bassett said afterwards, and always
believed, that at this precise moment he fell in
eve with Mavis Wynn ; but he might have
antedated the mischief.

They turned into the field path, and, without
troubling themselves with any consideration
as to whether it was the correct thing or not,
they enjoyed a heavenly walk so far as the riverbank.
They talked, of course, and probably ina
silly, disjointed, and unmeaning manner, but
that was of no consequence at all. Trotty Neck,
with a superlative perception of the position,
frisked about and supplied the two with a topic
of interest. He plainly said to them : ' My
dear, innocent, awkward young people, I
brought you together, so to speak, and now you
can make friends, and get over the preliminary
stages, by admiring my sagacious eyes, my discriminating
nose, and my commentators tail.'

The made some of those wonderful discoveries,

which, although not in themselves
absolute novelties to the human race, are
especial miracles to each successive couple that
finds them out; for instance, that spring is a
lovely season, that a walk in the fields is a delightful
experience, that birds sing sweetly, and
that the country is better to live in than the town.
The girl and the young man found something
more than this to say, no doubt, but these were
their first confidences, and perhaps many of us
could look back to a certain occasion, which,
although it brought no impressions of greater
moment than such futilities to our wise and clever
selves, will remain, ' while memory holds her
seat,' a recollection to be summoned up at wilL

Jack did not fail to remind Mavis that she
had promised Miss Nestle a second visit, and
adding that there were lots of things in the old
house which he would like to show to her himself,
' as she knew so much about art '  a pure
but permissible assumption on Mr. Jack's part
he ventured to insinuate that it would be well

to wait until after his own return from Trescoe
Park.

They're sure to want me to stay the full
week; there's always so much going on,' said
Jack. ' I have never yet gone to the Park
that I have not remained twice as long as I intended
; but this time I shan't. I'm sure to be
back on Saturday. Could you say Saturday
for a look at the pictures .? '

Mavis wore a broad-leaved straw hat which
concealed her face rather provokingly, and
besides, she happened to be attending to Trotty
Veck, so that Jack could not see whether she
looked sorry, but he thought her voice sounded
sorry as she replied that she could not, because
there was always a great deal to do at home on
Saturdays. The words jarred on Jack's ear, as
Mrs. Wynn's reference to the household tasks
of Mavis had jarred. He had only the vaguest
notions of what these household tasks might be ;
but a combination of the occupations of the
print-gowned, white-capped handmaidens whom

Miss Nestle kept so rigidly in their place, and
those of the red-armed Welsh girls whom he
had seen about the farm, presented itself to his
imagination, and filled him with wrath. This,
if he had been a wise young man, ought to have
put him on his guard; for, after all, what affair
was it of his that the graceful, fair-faced girl
by whose side he was walking, whose every
tone was musical, and her speech more choice
and correct than his own, was, as her stepmother
had said, 'nought but a farmer's daughter,'
and had no place at all among the refined
scenes in which Jack seemed to see her, an
ornament and a harmony ? What though the
shapely hands at which he cast a pained look,
had to twirl a sweeping brush or to feed calves
two possibilities that had presented themselves
to Jack's mind  instead of putting
through them the elegant industries of ladies'
lives, what business was that of Jack Bassett's P
xVs, however, he was not a wise young man,
these rational questions did not occur to him.

On Sunday, then ? ' asked Jack, but was
again denied.

Permission to attend and sing at the morning
and evening services was the sole privilege
which the day of rest brought to Mavis. This
was vexatious ; but, as Jack was aware that the
farmer never went to church, he immediately
formed a subtle plan for meeting Mavis and
Mrs. Wynn in the fields, and walking home to
the farm with them. He could hardly persevere
farther in his attempts to get Mavis to
name a day for her second visit to Miss Nestle.
His perceptions were quickened by his distrust
of Wynn ; he saw that she could not give an
answer of her own free will, and, with all his
youthful selfishness, he was too true a gentleman
to place her in a painful or awkward
position.

By the time the river-side came in view, and
the useful little craft  ungratefully designated
in Jack's thoughts 'that odious boat'  was
reached, Mavis and her escort had contrived to

find out more of each other's minds. Mavis
knew that a soldier, and nothing but a soldier.
Squire Bassett's son would be, and unspeakable
was her admiration of his noble resolve, while
she had no idea of what would be involved in
the carrying out of it  for Jack had even yet
sufficient discretion left to keep the family
troubles to himself. Jack knew that the death
of the girl's best friends had forced Mavis to
abandon the hope of making an independence
by the exercise of her musical gifts. She told
him this very simply and frankly, as if it must
of necessity be quite final, and Jack had a
guilty feeling of satisfaction on hearing it. He
had either inherited or acquired many of his
father's notions, and among them a OTcat dislike
to any kind of publicity, even the most
honourable, for women. Again, had he been
wise, he might have taken warning ; for what
business of his was it whether the daughter of
Farmer Wynn did or did not become a public
singer ?

Don't be disappointed about it,' he said
eagerly, ' yon would never have liked it :
indeed, I am sure you never could have done
it. I could not imagine you on a stage with
a lot of actors, and a crowd staring at you and
discussing you.'

'I could not imagine that myself,' said
Mavis, smiling. ' My uncle did not hope that
I should ever be equal to anything beyond
concert-singing. I daresay I should never
have had courage even for that. At all events,'
I must think of it no more.'

They had come to the river-side, where
the boat was made fast to the post. The
arbour was unoccupied ; the Dame's Parlour-side
presented a sunny, solitary aspect ; on the
roof sat peaceful pigeons ; no near sound was to
be heard except the pleasant ripple of the water
under the boat's keel. Trotty Veck jumped into
the little craft with a joyful bark as his master
laid his hand on the rope to loose it. Jack
turned an entreating look on Mavis.

You'll let me take you across ? '

Xo, thank you.' She looked over to the
far side of the stream with the same anxious
expression that Jack had already noticed ; ' I
would rather not.'

Come out, sir, you're not to go,' said Jack
to Trotty, sharply. Trotty obeyed, but under
protest ; and then, with a touch of the cruelty of
his sex and age, Jack took a stately leave of
Mavis, who, as he was well aware, could not do
otherwise than refuse his request. Having seen
her pull off, he took the return path with
ostentatious haste.

'I have offended him,' thought Mavis,
the tears springing to her eyes ; ' and he
has been so kind. But I could not help it ;
how could I tell what sort of humour my
father might be in, or what he would have
said ? '

Before she had time to say anything to her
stepmother about the little adventure of her
homeward walk, Mrs. Wynn began to tell her

of Mr. Jack's visit, and that he had brought
some books for her.

I put them in your cupboard,' said Mrs.
Wynn, in the confidential tone that had been
established by their mutual explanation. ' It's
just as well your father shouldn't see them.
Lord knows how he'd take it ; we cannot tell.
Be quick, dear, and get your things off; you're
wanted in the dairy.'

Mavis did as her gentle stepmother bade
her, but she snatched two minutes to look at
'Tom Burke of Ours,' just to glance at a few of
the dashing illustrations, and to think that Mr.
Jack would make as fine a figure in his beautiful
uniform, and be as brave a soldier, as any
of those gallant gentlemen. Her father's voice
calling her put the splendid vision to flight;
she hurriedly replaced the book, and obeyed
the summons.

So you've done your squalling, have you ? '
thus Farmer Wynn addressed his daughter 
and can make yourself useful.' He had called

her into the small room in which his business
was transacted, and was standing by a table
with a bundle of papers in his hand.

I was going to help Rebecca in the
dairy.'

'Rebecca be I tell you I want you

here. Sit down at my desk and copy this.'

'Yes, father,' said Mavis, obediently, but
she was more than usually hurt by Wynn's
way of speaking to her. The sweet taste of
courtesy and homage to her womanhood still
lingered with her, and, because of it, this daily
and hourly presented cup of coarse unkindness
was additionally revolting. The paper was an
inventory of house furniture and fittings, and
Mavis made the required copy diligently. She
had just completed her task when her father
came back into the room, and she handed him
the paper. ,

That will do,' he said. ' Now be off I'm
busy.'

Mavis, only too glad to be dismissed, rejoined

Mrs. Wynn, and told her of the task her
father had set her.

What can he want of another hist ?  inventory
it's called at the top of the paper said
Mavis.

Goodness knows. If it was only the
Dame's Parlour side furniture, it would look
like that Eeckitts buying it, as you thought ;
but it's all the furniture, isn't it ? '

Yes, there's everything in it, upstairs room
and all.'

'Then it can't be tliat said Mrs. Wynn,
with her usual sigh of acquiescence in her
own ignorance of all that might be supposed to
concern her most ; ' and it's no use thinking
about it.'

The Squire and his son left Bassett on the
following Thursday ; the former for London,
the latter for Trescoe Park. A large and
merry party was assembled there, including two
young fellows of Jack's acquaintance who had
just got their commissions. Utter indifference

to what they were going to do in life had not
then come into fashion among young Englishmen,
and these two boys were very full of ' the
Service.' Jack was perhaps strengthened in his
resolution to return home on Saturday, by feeling
that the sudden obscuring of his own prospects,
and the vagueness of his own future, made it
hard for him to join with due heartiness in their
exultant discourse. At all events, he was not
to be tempted to remain by the evident disappointment
of Caroline and Jane Trescoe, two
young ladies, who had never taken any particular
notice of him on previous occasions,
except to make him feel himself, Hke David
Copperfield, ' remarkably young.' He was
not even flattered by the testimony to complete
recognition of his young-manhood that
reached him from every side ; the men of
the party admitting him to their society as
readily as did the ladies. He was thinking
quite other matters : occasionally, to do him
justice, of his either, and the puzzling problem
VOL. I.

of the future, but almost continuously of Mavis
Wynn.

On the Sunday morning Jack heard from
his father. The Squire had taken up his
quarters at the bouse of Mr. Dexter, who
would not hear of his staying alone at an
hotel, and he was likely to be detained in
London for at least a fortnight. In the meantime,
he should be too busy for much writing,
but Jack was to keep up his heart, for Mr.
Dexter ' saw his way.'

Jack was well pleased with this communication.
Any of us who have ever been young,
and have not quite forgotten what it feels like,
will not be shocked to learn that he was very
glad of a fortnight's freedom from having to
face the trouble of the time, and also to have
plenty of leisure, without fear of being called
to account for his employment of it.

The ensuing fortnight was a pleasant but
dangerous time to Jack Bassett and Mavis
Wynn. Beautiful weather, nothing particular

to do, some painful thoughts to get rid of, and
an interval of suspense to hive through ; these
were all incentives to Jack's already pronounced
inclination to meet his fair neighbour as often
as he could contrive to do so on any pretext
which commended itself to him as reasonable.
In this respect he allowed himself a good deal
of latitude, and displayed not a little ingenuity ;
for although his frequent errands to Field-flower
Farm had Farmer Wynn for their
ostensible object, he contrived to time his
visits so as not to find the farmer on the home
premises.

It has been said that Jack was not of a
scheming disposition in general, but as frank and
above-board a young fellow as one who has
never suffered the indignity of distrust ought
to be ; yet was he no more consistently incorruptible
than the rest of us. Surprisingly soon
after the occasion of the choir practice at the
parsonage  well within the first of the two
weeks  he had begun to feel that a day without



the chance of seeing Mavis in it would be
drawn blank, and was to be avoided by all
means.

Circumstances favoured Jack. For some
reason with which nobody but himself was
acquainted, Farmer Wynn was more frequently
away from the farm than his wife had ever
previously known him to be, and he was also
unusually disposed to leave his womankind at
peace and to their own devices. Provided
that his commands, usually issued at breakfast-time,
were punctually fulfilled, and he never
called for anything without its being instantly
forthcoming, he did not trouble the big parlour
much with his presence during these halcyon
days. Mrs. Wynn enjoyed them, although
always with the prescient proviso that they
were much too good to last. In the afternoon
Wynn was either absent, or shut up in his
own room ; in the evening he devoted himself
to the unfamiliar occupation of reading, and
pored over the books which he had borrowed

from the Squire with the deepest attention,
while his wife and daughter plodded in silence
at their needlework.

The afternoon absences of the farmer were
revealed by Mrs. Wynn to Jack, when on the
day following the choir practice he presented
himself on dog-business, and had a delightful
hoiu- in the big parlour with Mavis. Jack did
not appear to pay any attention to Mrs. Wynn's
remark, but he reckoned on these precious
occasions, and thenceforth had a pretext ready,
until the time came when no pretext at all was
offered or required.

Tom Burke of Ours ' proved very successful.
The pleasure which Mavis took in that
wild, witty, and pathetic story ; her enthusiasm
about the Peninsular war scenes, her delight
with the Irish incidents, her agitated questioning,
' Can it be true ? Did anything like that
ever really happen ? ' when they talked of
Father Tom's drive through the mountains to
the rebel's death bed, were all wonderfully

charming to Jack, who took immense pleasure
in these tales of war, love, and adventure. He
had hitherto been rather inarticulate in ladies'
society, but it was surprising how easy he
found it to talk to Mavis about all his likes and
dislikes, and how much she was interested in
what he said. To be sure, she did make the
silly mistake of treating his time at Sandhurst
as school, and his grinding as lessons, which
rather checked him for a minute, with a
dreadful suspicion that she might possibly be
laughing at him ; but the simple seriousness in
the face of Mavis dispelled his apprehension
quickly. Girls never know about things of
that kind  how should they ? It was very
nice of her to care to hear  that was more
than most of them would, Jack thought, with
the free generalisation of his time of life. On
this occasion there was none of the constraint
and uneasiness in her manner, or that of her
stepmother, which he had previously observed,
and his suspicion that the difference was caused

by the absence of Wynn was confirmed by Mrs.
Wynn's remark.

The last object in his vicinity which it
would have occurred to Farmer Wynn to
observe was his daughter's countenance. Had
this been otherwise, he might have marked a
change in Mavis's fair, sweet, too serious face,
as she bent, evening after evening, over her
needlework, in the light of the old-fashioned
oil lamp, while he occupied one of the big
horsehair covered chairs by the fireside, with
his feet up on a second. He might have seen
the slight but lovely smile that occasionally
parted her lips, the quick light that occasionally
shone in her eyes, the brisk movement of her
needle, the look of something to think about
that engaged and pleased her, shortening the
time, and obscuring the actual scene. There
was music sounding somewhere, to which the
girl was hearkening ; there was a vision, and
the eyes of her soul saw it.

Had Mavis been reminded of the fit of

despair that had come upon her only so few
days before, in the Dame's Parlour, she would
have wondered at herself, blamed herself for
being so foolish, for thinking so ill of Providence,
life, and the beautiful world, and fearing
her fate so much.

Jack Bassett's days were pleasant on the
whole for a young gentleman who had substantial
troubles in the present, and no very
bright prospects for the future. He was popular
in the neighbourhood, and he had friends
in a regiment then quartered at Chester. On
most evenings this dogcart conveyed him to a
pleasant dinner at some friend's house within
a few miles ; but he returned home at night
with exemplary regularity, and he joined no
parties of an afternoon.

It was impossible to Jack to take books out
of the legitimate library without Miss Nestle's
knowledge, but he was not prepared to be
found out in extracting some from the goodly
store of novels in the Squire's book-room.

One day, as he stepped out of the glass door,
with three volumes under his arm, he was
confronted by Miss nestle, who had been looking
after Jacob, by special desire of the Squire.
Perfectly respectful but peculiarly disconcerting
was the look which Miss Nestle darted, first at
the books, and then at Jack.

Hallo ! Nestyy, who'd have thought of seeing
you at this side of the house ? ' said Jack,
with overdone effusion. ' What have you been
about ? '

I have been taking some sugar and a
store-apple to Jacob, Mr. John, by the Squire's
orders, received this morning,' answered Miss
Nestle, With prim precision.

Mr. John ' was a signal corresponding to
the hoisting of a storm drum.

Just like him to remember the donkey in
the midst of his business,' said Jack, heartily.
I ought to have taken his sugar and apple to
Jacob. Where is he .  with the cart ? '

On the third rose walk, at the east corner,

near the laburnum trees'  Miss Nestle was
still eyeing the books, and Jack had not
presence of mind to nod and leave her.

Well, you've given him as much as is
good for him for to-day. I'm off to Field-flower
Farm, to see about the pointer pup  I'd
rather Robert took him in hands now, so I
shall ask Wynn to send him up this evening
and I'm taking Miss Wynn some books.
They're wretchedly off in that way at the
farm.'

Miss Nestle's features settled themselves in
her disc-like countenance into an expression of
disapproval as she said :

Of course you know best, Mr. John, but
what Mavis Wynn can want with story-books,
now that she's settled down at the Farm, I
can't tell. It's no kindness to make people
discontented, or to put them out of their place ;
and a farmer's daughter don't ought to idle
over story-books as if she was a lady. What
I say is, if you keep your own place everyone

will respect you, and you can respect yourself.'


With this, Miss Nestle would have gone into
the house, but that Jack, whom her words had
made extremely uncomfortable, detained her.

Wait a minute, Nestyy,' he said, ' and don't
be cross. Why do you talk about Miss Wynn
as if she were just like the other farmers'
daughters? She isn't, you know; she's been
highly educated, and her mother was a gentleman's
daughter  was she not ? '

Thus artfully did Jack avail himself of an
untoward incident to get the information that
he wanted.

Mr. Warne was a gentleman of a queer
sort ; for he ran through all his property in
betting and horse-racing and such like wickedness,
and left his wife and children to want and
woe. The poor lady did not live long, and the
children, so I heard from Mavis's mother, were
brought up in a school to be teachers, poor
things.'

Jack had by this time tacitly beguiled Miss
Nestle into walking along the terrace with him.
The housekeeper was inflexible on her official
side only, and now, old recollections, probably
of pity and help, softened her reproving countenance.


How came one of Mrs. Warne's daughters
to marry Wynn ? '

That I cannot tell you, Mr. Jack '  he
felt things were coming right again  ' I never
heard it rightly ; but I suppose there was no
one else to marry her, and being put out
of her place already, through the doings of
her father, she very likely did not feel it so
much.'

You knew her . What sort of person was
she?'

Mavis is as like her as two peas, if one was
dark and the other was fair ; and she speaks
like her. But Mrs. Wynn never did much
good at the farm ; she never took to it, and' 
with a sudden return to her former attitude 

neither will Mavis, take my word for it, Mr.
John, if you go putting notions into her head
when she ought to be settling down.'

They had reached the end of the house, and
Miss Nestle came to a standstill.

'Never mind, Nestyy,' said Jack, persuasively
; ' I shall not be here to give Miss Wynn
notions, as you call it, very long ; or to lend
her books ; but she must have these, you
know, because I told her I should bring them.
I dare say you often did her mother a kindness
when things were not too pleasant for
her. So I'm off! Look out for the pointer
pup.'

He ran lightly down the terrace steps,
turned into the shrubbery that bounded the
rose garden, and was out of sight before Miss
Nestle had done shaking her cap at him.

What a pity the dear boy isn't more like
the Squire ! ' thought j\iiss Nestle, as she
retraced her steps, ' content to be quiet at
home, instead of wanting to be off to the wars

again, or I ought to say, the first time, like
the person in the song, who hung his harp on
a willow-tree. But'  here Miss Nestle nodded
sharply two or three times  ' as he won't be
satisfied unless he can be put in the way of
killing his fellow-creatures, I shan't be sorry if
he gets the chance soon. I think well of Mr.
Jack, very well; but he don't keep himself in
his place so strict and constant as the Squire
does, and I don't hold with girls having their
heads turned.'

CHAPTEE IX.

THIS Seeing OF LOVE.'

The memorable year that broke up the tradition
of peace, only a short time after its great
commemoration, formed an epoch in the life of
England whose importance will probably berated
in the future even more highly than it
is by us, who have seen how far and how fast
the ball that was then set rolling has since
rolled. To all who remember it with grownup
memory, the first year of the Crimean war
stands apart as an epoch at which a great
change passed upon men's minds, and the subjects
of main interest to them were largely
multiplied and magnified. The young people
of those days learned to understand the Waterloo
time, and the feelings of their predecessors

of that glorious period ; while the political field
of vision widened out in a surprising fashion,
to go on widening at accumulating speed ever
since.

Some day, a great writer, an historian and
philosopher, with the accuracy proper to the
one and the calm proper to the other, with the
fine insight of a poet, and the love of form of
an artist, with the soul of a patriot, and rich in
treasures of experience, will set down the story
of ' the fifties ' veracious and entire. Then the
English people of that day will learn, better
than we who have lived in and near it can
know, how wonderful, great, and ominous a
decade that was.

With the historic events that were ushered
in by the spring of 1854, we are concerned
but transiently, and for the sole reason
that the outer edge of the great whirlpool,
created by the flinging of the Titanic stone
of offence into the long-unruffled waters of
European peace, stretched far enough to draw

within its swirl the quiet people with whom this
humble tale has to do. It is permissible to
borrow a phrase from a great master, and to
say, as Mr. Thackeray said of his immortal
narrative, ' Vanity Fair,' that the place of this
story, while the battle rages, and the fate of
countries and kings hangs on its award, ' is
with the non-combatants below.'

When Squire Bassett spoke to Mr. Dexter
about ' the chances ' on which young men of
Jack's way of thinking were then calculating,
he alluded, of course, to the war between Russia
and the allied Powers which had just been
declared. What Jack called the glorious luck
of the oncoming of war was calculated to confirm
his resolution. The Squire and the lawyer
contemplated this matter each from his separate
point of view : Mr. Bassett with distaste, indeed,
but with a single-hearted desire to let his son
have his own way ; Mr. Dexter with regret
and impatience. Concerning those chances Mr.
Dexter was sceptical ; the prizes that were to

VOL. I. p

be snatched by happy hazard, or laboriously
climbed for, were not numerous, and the
matter presented itself to him in the most
prosaic light.

It is just like the technical talk with which
they cover up the horrors, the miseries, the
cruelty, and the waste of war,' thought the
lawyer ; ' their advances, operations, evolutions,
steady fire, closing up, falling back in good
order, charging, and all the rest of it. What
does the simplest bit of all that jargon imply
but suffering to man and beast, a woeful waste
of precious life and hard-earned money, all incurred
for the attainment of some object to be
cheerfully relinquished by the next generation?
There were " chances " for the young fellows
when the Emperor of Eussia helped us to beat
Boney " ; there are chances for the young
fellows now that " Boney's " nephew is going
to help us to beat the Emperor of Eussia ; and
the meaning of both sets of ' chances " is
dead men's shoes." '

Mr. Dexter, being thus insensible to the
claims of glory, and ruthlessly realistic in his
views, was not sympathetic with the Squire in
his quest of the realisation of Jack's heart's
desire ; but he was none the less useful. Once
convinced that his friend's son was of the number
of those who ' will to Cupar,' and therefore
maun to Cupar,' he would do all in his power
to set that ill-judging young man, mounted and
provisioned for the journey, on the way to
Cupar. The Squire having told him on his
arrival in London that there was no doing anything
with Jack, Mr. Dexter at once proceeded
to act upon this assurance, in his own department
of Mr. Bassett's affairs, while the Squire
went to work in another.

The result of the exertions of the two
friends proved satisfactory, and was attained
with greater facility than the Squire had
anticipated.

The fortnight had not quite expired when
Mr. Bassett sent his son news that suddenly

p 2

changed the aspect of affairs. The Squires
communication was received by the aspirant
to military glory with less pleasure than that
wherewith Jack would have welcomed similar
intelligence when he bade the Squire good-bye
at the Chester railway station.

* * * *

The long casements of the Dame's Parlour
commanded, as we have seen, a view of the
little river and its opposite bank. It would
be both vain and unfair to ask how soon Mavis
Wynn's interest in that prospect attached itself
to the tolerably punctual appearance of
Mr. John Bassett hard by the spot at which
the boat was now regularly to be found for his
convenience.

The boy, for whom Mavis had looked in
vain on a certain recent day, never to lose its
importance in her memory, was readily forthcoming
when it occurred to Mr. Jack that it
would be convenient and expedient to make
his visits to Fieldflower Farm by way of the

river. The red-cheeked, black-haired, beady-eyed
boy, Eeuben Jones, who held a nondescript
position at the farm, undertook to be
on the look-out for Mr. Jack of afternoons, to
take the boat across for him, and likewise to
row it back to the boathouse after Jack's departure.
If Eeuben ever wondered why Mr.
John Bassett did not make his visits to the
farm like other people, walking up the avenue,
and sitting gravely in the big parlour where
the Sunday tea-set and the family Bible abode,
and if he guessed aright at the reason, it was
doubtless with sweet and soothing satisfaction.
The beady-eyed boy disliked his master so
heartily that it actually freshened up his faculties
to be called upon to use them presumably
against Wynn.

So the spring days crept on ; their keenness
was beginning to be tempered by that
sweetness whose only parallel has been found
for it by the greatest of poets. To Mavis all
their meaning was that each would surely bring

Jack to the river-side, and to Jack, that among
the hours of every one of them some would
be passed in the bhssfnl company of Farmer
Wynn's daughter. Every day, Jack and Trotty
Neck made their little voyage in the boat, and
the young man and the girl sat and talked in
the arbour, or walked on the smooth sward
under the grey fortress wall, or along the
river's edge, while Trotty sedulously sought
the society of Mrs. Wynn, feeling, but with a
magnanimous absence of bitterness, that his
own was less welcome than formerly.

On two or three occasions Jack had seen
the farmer, but Wynn had made no sign of
surprise, displeasure, or curiosity ; he merely
exchanged a few sentences with the Squire's
son, and went about his business.

Mrs. Wynn hardly knew herself  to use
her own expression  in the cheerful atmosphere
created by Jack's mere presence. It
was ' lovely,' she thought, to hear the pleasant
talk of the two ; although there was a great

deal of it that she did not understand. Their
walks were extended daily, while the riverside
arbour or the big parlour saw less and less
of Jack and Mavis. They left her with ever-shortening
apologies, it is true ; but she had
never before been so well treated, so nearly
restored to self-respect, or so little tormented
with fear and distress on account of Mavis.

Mrs. Wynn had not a mother's instinct to
quicken her perception where Mavis was concerned.
She was sorry, when she was obliged
to think of it, that the end of this pleasant
change in the life of Fieldflower Farm must
come so soon. Mr. Jack would have to go
off to the place where the other grand officers
were (Mrs. Wynn's notion of the war and its
locality was equal to old John Willet's in clearness),
and then it would be as dull as ever for
Mavis. Thus did Mrs. Wynn  who had never
been in love in her life, and whose always
slow mind was becoming more inert under the
influence of illness, of which she dared not

complain  regard a state of things, fraught, as
ordinary common sense should have taught her,
with danger to the one being in the world
whom she loved. That, however retired and
unneighbourly the ways of Fieldflower Farm
were, other people might hear and talk of Mr.
Jack's assiduities, and the breath of scandal
taint the fair fame of Mavis, no more occurred
to Mrs. Wynn than that the ' end of it ' might
mean a broken heart and a wasted life to her
stepdaughter. Mrs. Wynn carried a broken
heart in her own breast, but love had had
nothing to do with its fracture ; nor indeed
hate, which will sometimes work a like ill and
desolation ; but only sheer tyranny and constant
fear.

Jack had been made free of the Dame's
Parlour, whither he had conveyed quite a little
collection of the Bassett books. The quaint
old rooms pleased him ; his fancy, not over-quick
or milch indulged, had shared in the

awakening of his feelings, and all things lent
themselves to 

The one unequalled pure romance.

The farm-side would perhaps have fed it as
effectually, though otherwise ; but the ancient,
quiet, solemn, tapestried rooms, their spare,
bygone furniture, and the exquisite neatness
that pervaded them  this, indeed, Mavis had
the art of maintaining wherever she had any
control  formed a frame for the fair image
of his first love which had a great charm for
Jack.

It was in the Dame's Parlour that he first
heard Mavis sing ; after he had endured a
twinge of something  it could not be jealousy,
he was sure, because that would be foolish,
but it was at all events unpleasant  because
others had the privilege of hearing that sweet
music, and not he. So he asked Mavis to
sing to him ; and she, being entirely free from
coquetry or affectation, consented to do so, but

said that only certain hymns, and a few songs
that were real poetry, were pleasing without
an accompaniment. Jack positively hated Miss
Nestle as he thought of the ' beautiful piece of
rosewood ' at home, and eagerly assured Mavis
that her voice needed no accessory. She sang
to him, and Jack listened with strange, almost
painful, pleasure, and a sudden consciousness
that hitherto he had never knovn what music
meant. He made her no florid compliments,
but the look with which he thanked the singer
set her heart beating quickly, and took away
from her the power of answering him.

Yes,' said Mrs. Wynn, simply, as if Jack
had spoken to her ; ' it is the kind of singing
that does one good. Her Uncle Jeffrey thought
a deal of her voice.'

'No wonder,' was Jack's only comment.
He was rather silent after this, and went away
earlier than usual. It was a rainy day, and
there had been no walk by the river-side.

From the Dame's Parlour, where he had

taken leave of her, Mavis looked out at
Jack, as he crossed the river and took his
way through the fields. As she lost sight
of him a thought came to her that carried
with it a keen and dreadful pang. He would
soon vanish out of her life, as he had but now
passed beyond her vision, and what should she
do, what should she be then ? Her stepmother's
remarking that they had better see to
the tea seemed to wake her from a dream, and
she looked around with a sort of terror of the
closing up again of the walls of her prison-house.
They had fallen apart ; she had seen
wonderful visions beyond them, and now at the
same moment there come to her the meaning of
those visions, and also the chill certainty that
she must part with them.

Mavis had, however, to rouse herself and
go to her prosaic occupations, and this was well.
Her father came in wet and surly ; in a mood
to kick the dogs and bully the women. He
indulged his mood, and when Mavis got away

to her own room that night, a great bewilderment
fell upon her. She was very young in
years, but much older in mind, as such an experience
as hers must have made any one who
was not a fool ; she was helpless, and yet the
sole help of another more pitiable still. A
deep sense of humiliation possessed her, and
under, over, above, all round those racking
thoughts, was the agony of knowledge that the
brightness and the sweetness which had changed
all her life for a few short days must go out of it,
and leave it darker and more bitter than before.
This had been true from the very first gleam of
that brightness, from the very first taste of that
sweetness, but she had not felt it until to-day; she
had been so content ! What was this dreadful
pain? What had happened to her that she
should feel so wretched, and that the doom
under which she must live had become more
than ever intolerable ? Why had her heart
died within her that evening ? Why had her
flesh crept with shame and repulsion, when

Wynn used language to his wife and daughter
not more vile and violent than they had endured
many times before ?

Oh,' she sobbed, as she knelt in the moonlight
beside her little bed and hid her face in
her hands,  he's a gentleman, a gentleman ; and
how can I be treated in this way, and live this
life, and yet bear to look at him ; to let him respect
me as if I were the first lady in the land ?
But, oh ! how am I to bear it when he is gone
away? It will be worse then, far worse.
The days without a sight of him, the weeks
and months, and all this to suffer, without a
word or a look of his. . . .'

When Jack Bassett came to the river-side
next day, he found the boat ready for him as
usual, but Eeuben was sitting on the bank eating
bread and cheese. He scrambled to his feet
and bolted a huge mouthful, as Jack came up
and asked him why he was waiting.

Please sir,' answered Eeuben, ' I was to
tell you that Missis is bad with a headache, and

she hasn't come down to-day, and Miss Mavis is
done with these

So saying he ducked into the boat and produced
a couple of volumes. Jack took them
with a frown.

That means that I am not to come across
to-day ; but why ? No matter, I must and I will.
Get in,' said he to Eeuben ; ' I'm going across.'

The door in the wall of the Dames Parlour-side
was ajar. Jack walked in unceremoniously,
and found Mavis, as he expected, in the parlour.
She had seen him cross the river, despite her
implied prohibition, and she knew that the impending
meeting must be unlike any that had
gone before it. The scene of yesterday, and
the self-revelation that succeeded it, had unnerved
Mavis ; and now, as she stood by the
casement with one hand on the broad sill and
the other clasping her forehead, while she strove
for the composure which his rapid step upon
the stair put utterly to flight, she was pale and
trembling.

In a minute he was in the room. Her hand
fell from her brow, and she tried to speak like
her ordinary self, but she saw that a change
had passed on him too. There was a brighter
light in his eyes, he looked less boyish, more
commanding, and in this first words of greeting
there was a deeper tone.

You did not want me to come to-day 
why ? '

I  Mrs. Wynn is not well  I thought '

Something has happened. What is it ? '
She had been standing by the window, buta
great carved chair was near, and she seated
herself without answering. How could she tell
him what had happened, the scene with her
father, or the later strife of her own thoughts ?
His eyes were searching her face for the reply
to his question ; their look was strangely keen
and lofty, and her heart beat quickly, hurried
by the sense of something impending. She
leaned her head against the back of the chair,
her chestnut curls lay soft and bright against

the rigid heraldic device in old black oak, and
Jack thought he had never seen her look so
fair.

'Something has happened since yesterday.
What is it ? ' he repeated. ' Will you not tell
me ? Why did you try to prevent me from
coming? Why did you not want to see me
to-day ? What have I done ? '

You  done  Mr. Bassett . ' stammered
Mavis, with a deep blush ; ' nothing indeed.
It was not on account of you.'

I am glad of that,' said Jack, guessing at
the truth. ' I would not have you offended
with me, or not care to see me, for the world.'
The phrase was very commonplace, but it was
poetry and music combined to Mavis's ears.

'I could not have obeyed you, though I
knew well enough what your message meant.
I could not have let the day pass without
seeing you. I have something to tell you 
something about myself

He was standing near her chair, and he

laid his arm upon the back of it, and spoke
the next words bending slightly towards lier.
A mist passed before her eyes. Was he going
away ? or was it  was it the great lady whom,
according to her stepmother, he was to marry,
and of whom she had never thought once in all
these happy days ? But almost with the suggestion
came the conviction that it was not that.

I am going away. My father has settled
everything for me, and desires me to join him
in London with as little delay as possible. I
shall be gazetted to the Eifle Brigade in a
few days, and am to join the regiment at
once.'

At his first words she had quivered allover
; this was the realisation of the dread
that had fallen upon her last night. The
answer to her question, ' What shall I do
then? what shall I be ?' would now come
soon enough. She could not speak ; no matter
what he might think of her silence, she could
not speak.

VOL. I. Q

He bent bis head more towards her, and
went on, with some hurry in his voice :

Do you know where I shall be going to ? '

No words, but the movement of her eyelids
answered him. She did not know, but she
feared.

To the seat of war. We are ordered out
to Gallipoli. It is a splendid chance for me.
My father got it all settled, and never said
anything until it was done. Don't look so
shocked ; you knew I was going to be a
soldier  al wa y s . '

Yes  but not  not that you were going
to fight.'

'Ah, but that's my grand luck, you see,
and my father's good friends ; he knows a lot
of people, though he lives out of the world.
This is what I came to tell you  this, and a
great deal more.*

 You  you are glad ? '

Of course I am glad.' He drew himself
up proudly for a moment, with a passing look
of surprise, but it yielded to one of his peculiarly

bright smiles. He resumed his former
attitude, and went on speaking, blending, in a
very manly and attractive way, deference to
the woman with the soothing manner in which
he might have quieted a child.

But I am sorry too. You know why, do
you not ? You know what I have to leave !
Mavis, you know that I love you ! '

On his bended knee beside her, in the good
old style of lover's wooing, drawing away the
hands that she clasped before her eyes, and
holding them tightly in his own, Jack begged,
right humbly for all his hopefulness, and with
a simple eloquence that became him well, for
the one great boon, which possessing he should
have no more to ask of fate.

What did Mavis say to him? Very few
and simple words, and spoken with difficulty.
To her lover's ears those words had the grandeur*
and glory of the proclamation of a king's
coming to his kingdom ; for they were, ' I
think I loved you first.'

q2

The girl raised her serene eyes to her
young lover's, and their pure and trustful
appeal was so sacred and beautiful, that it filled
his heart with a great transport of love and
fidelity. She seemed newly, doubly, dear and
divine to him. He had hoped, he had meant,
he had willed to win her ; but now that she
was won, he was so amazed at his great joy
that it seemed like some other, unimagined,
and the kiss that sealed the promise by which
they bound themselves to each other for time
and eternity, to mark the beginning of a new
life.

They were so young and so happy, it was
no wonder that on the first hours of their
acknowledged love no shadow of doubt or
misgiving fell, and even that of imminent
parting held aloof. That their first confidences
were like those of many myriads of
their like since time began, and love with it,
who can doubt ? It is no less certain that to
them they were as simply marvellous, and

apart from all the experiences of humanity, as
if they had been exchanged by creatures of <\.
different race, in another planet. For the girl
the whole face of the earth was changed.
What had become of the questions she had
asked herself  ' What should she be ? What
should she do ? ' She was to be Jack's betrothed,
and she was to love him, in every
moment of her beatified existence, with all her
heart and soul, and so to grow worthy  if
such worthiness were indeed possible  to be
his wife when he should come for her.

What harm could any one do her now ?
With that hope set before her, what was there
she could not bear, and keep it from her true
lover's knowledge, lest it should distress him P
Humiliation and fear had no more hold upon
her ; at the touch of the great magician they
fell away like the burst bonds of a captive.
He loved her ; she was safe for evermore. It
was not, however, in the first hour of that
wonderful bliss which, for every woman worthy

of the name who has known it, transforms the
world, that Mavis thought of these things at
all. In the intensity and wonder of her happiness,
external things seemed lost ; it was of
Jack only she could think, of Jack who loved
her, to whom she belonged henceforth. A
great gulf lay between to-day, when she knew
that this was so, and yesterday, when she had
known only that she loved him, and that she
should soon see him no more ; a great gulf in
which a load of trouble and dread was buried
out of sight and out of mind.

The lovers had not much time on the
supreme day of their lives for the concerting
of plans, or for the comparing of notes upon the
successive chapters of the ever-new old story,
that form an early and delightful stage of that
madness which is so much better than sanity.
Jack had an engagement at home, and Mavis
had to perform Mrs. Wynn's tasks in addition
to her own. Each felt, though neither said so,
that no risk of Jack's meeting Wynn must be

incurred on that day. The one indication of
the future, given by Jack to Mavis in the midst
of the sweet love-talk of those blissful hours,
was in the sentence : ' We must keep our secret
quite to ourselves for the present.' There
would have been no keeping of the secret from
any one who could have seen the young man
and the girl, with the light of love in their
faces, as Mavis waved a farewell to Jack from
the quaint old casement of the Dame's Parlour,
which, in its time, had framed many a fair
and smiling, many a weary and woe-worn face,
and he saluted her as reverently and gallantly
as though his wide awake had been a plumed
beaver, and the young lover a knight of old.

I thought you were never coming. Mavis,'
said poor Mrs. Wynn, with unusual querulousness,
when her stepdaughter appeared in the
room. * Where have you been ? Have you
got the cheeses rubbed ? There will be such a
to-do if that's not been seen to ; and my
head's been so bad, I forgot all about it until

just this minute. How I'm to get up, I don't
know.'

Don't hurry,' said Mavis, as she collected
Mrs. Wynn's garments, ' there's an hour
yet before tea-time. The cheeses have been
rubbed ; there's nothing neglected. But '  she
came nearer and looked sharply at her stepmother
 ' you don't look fit to be up at all.
I am sure you are really ill. Don't get up,
Sarah ; stay where you are, and I will ask
father to send for Dr. Williams.'

Oh no !  for goodness' sake don't do that;
if you had heard how he went on at me over
the Christmas bill, you wouldn't wonder that I
would suffer anything rather than have what
I cost him thrown at me.'

But if you get really ill for want of knowing
what to do for yourself,' persisted Mavis,
who had to be very plain of speech with Mrs.
Wynn, ' there won't be any saving in that, you
know.'

No, I suppose there won't ; but Wynn

must be left to see it for himself. I often
think  indeed, I feel sure   ' But here
she paused, perceiving that although Mavis
Alas standing near with some of her clothes
on her arm she was not listening, but was
smiling absently at some thought of her own.
The patient woman left the sentence unfinished,
and with a tired sigh began to dress herself.

Mavis longed to tell Mrs. Wynn what great
joy had come into her own life. She did
thorough justice to her stepmother by the
conviction that the intelligence would be a
great consolation to her in the trouble which it
could not actually touch. But she resisted the
strong temptation : until Jack gave her leave
to reveal it, the secret of her happiness should
be untold. Her resolution was the more difficult
to keep that Farmer Wynn relieved the
two women of his presence for the whole evening
by attending a club dinner, and they might
have had a delightful talk over this great
wonder. As it was, Mavis made the evening a

happy one for Mrs. Wynn, reading to her while
she cared to be read to, and talking, when she
tired of the book, on all the most cheerful
topics she could find ; avoiding the home
miseries, not only because her own heart was
lifted out of them, but for the sake of her
dejected companion.

I am sure she is really ill,' thought Mavis,
as she afterwards watched Mrs. Wynn dozing
in her chair, with the faint smile that she had
succeeded in calling to her weary face still
resting upon it in her light slumber. 'I must
ask Jack what I ought to do.'

Again Mavis Wynn knelt in the moonlight
by her little white bed, and hid her face in her
hands ; but the thoughts that came thronging
to her were full of amazement that it had been
possible for her to be so miserable, when such
happiness as was now hers had all the time
been so near. It was almost frightening to
think of that ; it taught her practically the
hard lesson of our mysterious ignorance ; for

might she not, at her happiest moment, when
Jack should be with her, and she most sure
that he loved her, be parted from new sorrow
by only as brief an interval ?

This cloud passed quickly, like the thin
vapours that were flitting across the silvery
moon, and the girl's pure heart gave itself over
to the security and innocent triumph of her love.
Mavis was of a faithful and a grateful nature ;
her dead were not buried out of her sight. Never
had the dear friends to whom she owed even Jack
-  because, little as there was in her to justify his
love, she owed to them that there was anything 
been remembered with more poignant tenderness.
Ah, if they could have known ! if they could
only have been spared apprehension and anxiety,
such as had troubled the closing days of both
her aunt and uncle, with what additional
radiance would the bliss that was now hers
have been invested !

While these and myriads of other thoughts
were crowding upon Mavis, there was not one

that did not centre in her lover. It was because
Jack was Jack, and loved her, that the
dear ones who were gone would have rejoiced
for her. That the lover whose faith had just
been plighted to her was the only son of her
father's landlord, a gentleman of position and
fortune, one entitled by the world's laws tomate
far above her, did not at first enter into
Mavis's mind. Her humility was unaffected,
but it was altogether personal ; only Jack and
herself were present to her guileless and inexperienced
thoughts. Only the dread of parting,
more imminent and definite than when last
night it had shaken her like the wind, broke up
the lustrous serenity of the mirror into which
she gazed, seeing those two images. Even that
dread had been deprived of half its pain : for
now, although, indeed. Jack would have to go
away, they could not be parted in reality, and
when he came back, it would be to her.

CHAPTER X.

AN APRIL DAY.

Jack Bassett's friends, Mr. Brett and Mr,
Chancellor, had come over from the barracks
at Chester. This, being Jack's first independent
dinner-party at Bassett, was an occasion of some
solemnity. He could not help thinking, ruefully,
that it might also be his last. He was
not blind to the fact that the proceedings of
that day would add to the complication of
affairs. Miss Nestle lead made choice preparation
for the entertainment of his guests. Jack
lead told the housekeeper that he was to join
the Squire in London very shortly, and would
soon be off* to the war, and he was not a little
surprised to fid that she took the announcement
easily ; that, in fact, she was unmistakably

pleased. He idly wondered at this for a while,
and then forgot it in the discussion of the projected
festivity.

The three young men dined in the terrace
room. It was a pleasant party. ' The Service '
was a topic common to all now ; and although
they were surprised at Jack's change of purpose,
they thought a great deal more about his luck in
getting sent ' out ' at once, and they eagerly discussed
the prospects of their own corps. Everything
connected with the war had hitherto been
vague ; the localities were obscure, and Mr.
Eussell's letters to the Times were only beginning
to show the world how a special correspondent
could educate it. Jack and his friends
were intelligent, and interested in the matter.
Among the Squire's books were some that
treated of Eussia and Turkey ; after dinner the
young men got out these, and also some maps,
and discussed the coming campaign.

It was a fine moonlight night when Mr.
Brett and Mr. Chancellor, being due at morning

parade, started on their drive back to Chester.
Jack and they had a hearty parting at the
farthest gate-lodge j where he jumped off the
dogcart, and stood listening to its wheels in the
stillness for some minutes, wondering when and
where Brett and Chancellor and he should
meet again. He walked slowly back to the
house, enjoying the keen air and the solemn
light and shadow. The image of Mavis then
resumed its sway, and for that one night at
least there was nothing in his mind but the
ineffable triumph of the lover who has won his-suit.


There was, however, a practical side to
Jack Bassett's character, and this prevented
him from shirking the straightforward consideration
of all that was involved in the
engagement between himself and Mavis Wynn.
He had thought the whole position out next
day, calmly enough, considering the depth and
strength of his feelings, before the hour arrived
at which he might reckon on seeing Mavis.

Coldly stated, the case was a hard one
against Jack. He knew that it must be an
additional and severe blow to his father to learn
that he purposed marrying the daughter of a
farmer : a man in no way superior in education
and refinement to the generality of his
class. That his father needed only to see
Mavis to be aware of her superiority to all other
daughters of all other farmers in Cheshire, or
the world, her lover knew, of course ; but in
the meantime he would have to take Jack's
word for this superiority. Jack felt, too, that
with all his indulgence, so recently experienced,
this father was a proud man, with fixed ideas on
the fitness of things, and as likely as the sternest
and least accommodating of parents to think
that he knew best what would be for his son's
welfare and the family honour. Jack wished
with all his heart that Mavis were net Farmer
Wynn's daughter, but this did not advance
matters ; he could only fall back on the reflection
that every lesser consideration must give
way before a creature so lovely and perfect as

Mavis, and that his own happiness as lier
accepted lover was too great to permit anything
with which he might have to contend to distress
liii seriously. He was not going to be a ricci
man  even on the moderate scale of wealth
that had been represented by Bassett before the
big loss came  he was going to be poor, and of
no particular importance to the world, the
county, or anybody, except Mavis and his
father. They need not live at Bassett  in fact,
there was no chance of their being able to do
so  and then it would not so much matter,
although Mavis could hold her own anywhere.
So far had his fancy travelled from the old love
of his home, and the first pangs of regret with
which he had learned how it was menaced.
So utterly had love put prudence to flight, and
taken possession of Jack, who, if selfish in this
new and strong passion, Alas at least not ignobly
selfish, but was ready to make sacrifices on his
owen part as well as to demand them on this
father's.

VOL. 1. B

His notions were as vague as they were
romantic ; he did not look beyond the first
obstacle in his path. To have to tell the truth
to the Squire, just when he was leaving him to
encounter alone a great change in his own
mode of life, and all the anxiety that Jack's
grand luck ' must entail, was enough to give
pause even to so resolute and exultant a
lover.

Jack was so much engrossed and perplexed
by his thoughts, that instead of going out,
making a round of the stables, the gardens,
nd the place in general, as he usually did,
with a cheery word for everybody, and a
special eye to the welfare of the horses and
dogs, and winding up with a visit to the
Museum before luncheon  an attention which
Miss Nestle prized highly  he remained in the
book-room. The sun shone outside, and the
soul of Trotty Neck was troubled by this
deplorable departure from custom.

In his cogitations Jack took no account of

that side of the question which involved
Wynn's sentiments. Nor did this arise from
arrogance  he was free from that vulgar vice
but rather from heedlessness, and preoccupation
with his own point of view.

Miss Nestle had already given her methodical
mind to the supplying of Jack with
every sort of requisite for his expedition to
foreign parts. The present occasion she took to
be very much like his former goings to school
only farther off, and with danger for him to
get into instead of merely trouble  and he
was diverted from his thoughts and the slow
passage of the hours by having to correct the
housekeeper's ideas of what he ought to take
with him. She proposed to pack a small
ship-load selected from the contents of the
store-rooms and Museum, and met his representations
of the probable restrictions upon
officers' baggage with the stood remark : ' The
Squire won't like it, Mr. Jack. You never
have been without your comforts, and why

B 2

you should leave 'em behind now that you
are going among savages, I can't think.'

He was destined, before long, to come to
the conviction that Miss Nestle's views had
been much sounder than his own.

Profoundly did she afterwards enjoy
the forwarding her rejected stores to the seat
of war, and highly did she pride herself on
having foreseen the great Crimean muddle,
and forestalled the general despatching of
hampers from home as a panacea for its
miseries.

I don't care where they are,' Miss Nestle
would say, when the campaign was the subject
of conversation, ' whether it's hurting themselves
with lessons and games at school when
they're boys, or going against the Litany in
foreign parts with their battle, murder, and
sudden death, when they're not much more ;
what I say is, they're all hearted-up by a hamper
from home. You should see ' (she would add
as a clincher) 'what Mr. Jack wrote to the

Squire about the muffatees and marmalade he
had out in the worst of it.'

Again Jack, observing the cheerful composure
with which Miss Nestle regarded his
approaching departure, reflected upon his luck.
If the only woman who was officially privileged
to make a fuss over him on this interesting
occasion had thought proper to do so, it
would have been a bore. It was not until
he was on his way to FieldHower Farm that
the source of Miss Nestle's unlooked-for heroism
occurred to him.

She has suspected me more or less from
the first,' thought he, ' and now she is glad I
am going to be kept out of mischief.'

Neither love, trouble, nor his prospects
had as yet taken boyishness entirely out of
Jack Bassett. He laughed with the unembarrassed
glee of that phase of existence, as he
thought how mistaken the dear old lady was ;
how very thoroughly he had got into what she
would call ' mischief.'

Again fortune favoured Jack, and he had a
few minutes alone with Mavis in the Dame's
Parlour. He availed himself of them to entreat
that she would come out for a walk with
him after he had seen Mrs. Wynn. He had a
great deal to say to her, he pleaded, holding
her in his arms, and filling his eyes and
his soul with the quiet loveliness of her face,
all suffused with a beauty new since yesterday ;
but their time was so short, so terribly short.
Mavis started at the words ; she had not
realised that their parting was so imminent,
but Jack broke it gently to her that after today
they were to meet but once more, until
the blessed time when he should come home
and claim her as his wife.

'My father expects me to join him in
London on Thursday. My darling, it is very
hard to say good-bye so soon ; and yet I think
every hour would make it harder. Sure
though I am of you, it is almost death to go.'

And what is it to stay ? '

Worse, I suppose. They always say so ;
they do that much justice to women, at all
events.'

It is surprising what broad views of the
virtues and sufferings of the whole female sex a
man will take when he is in love ; it is equally
remarkable how his vision contracts when he
has got out of love. All women were angels
in Jack's eyes just then. How angry he would
have felt if anybody had hinted that very
recently they had been merely a lot of girls !

Don't look so frightened, darling, or Mrs.
Wynn will see there's something the matter.'

May I not tell her ? She  she would be
very glad ; and she is so unhappy, and so ill.'

Not now  not just at this moment, I
mean ; I have so much to explain to you. I
must talk to you first, without fear of interruption.
You are free at this time ? '

All his distaste to the supposed tasks that
he hated to think of was in Jack's tone, but
Mavis took no note of this ; she answered

simply that she was free, and could go outwith
him.

Jack found Mrs. Wynn in the big parlour,
and looking ill. She was glad to see him, as
usual, and heard with her customary acquiescence
that he and Mavis were going to have a
look at the swans' nest near the weir. By this
Jack knew that the farmer was out of the way ;
but she was even more than ordinarily quiet,
inert, and subdued. She did not seem able to
care much about anything, Jack thought. Mavis
came in presently, looking lovely in the same
straw hat that he had recognised so far off on
one memorable day, and then the two set off
for a walk in the earthly paradise.

It was, perhaps, due to the nearness of their
parting, and to the quality of simplicity which
they both possessed, that these newly betrothed
lovers were not shy and embarrassed, and that
perfect confidence rapidly established itself between
them. , The young man, as was natural,
estimated far more justly than the girl the

seriousness of their independent disposal of
their lives ; she was lost in the wonder and the
joy of it. There was no mock humility about
Mavis, nor was there any sham chivalry about
Jack ; each honestly held the love of the other
to be a boon beyond price. If Jack only
had any notion of what was to be paid for it,
that too was best.

They walked along the river's edge until
they came to the swans' nest near the weir. It
was among the reeds, like that famous nest in
Mrs. Browning's poem, which Elsie was never
to show to her lover ; and the mother swan was
in it with her two cygnets  dingy creatures
looking like changelings by the side of the
snowy, downy, majestic, but far from amiable
bird, a pensioner of Mavis, who carried bread
to her every day. Cygnus pere was sailing on
the river, slowly trailing his black paddles, and
seemingly unconscious of human intrusion ; but
Mavis was up to his ways, and knew he would
presently come close for his share of the

scattered bread, and would adjudicate that share
liberally on his own side.

'They quarrel about it sometimes,' said
Mavis, ' and I am afraid Jill gets the worst of
it. I call her Jill, and him Jack.'

She laughed and blushed, doing both
divinely, her lover thought.

Do you indeed ? ' said he ; ' so you are
used to the name. But you have never called
me Jack yet ! Suppose you try ? '

She laughed and blushed again, but she did
try. Then Jack told her how he thought her
name the sweetest ever devised for a woman,
but had never liked his own until that moment.
If any who read the story of this young pair,
or any of their ancestors back to the most remote,
have not heard, said, and believed exactly
the same words in their time, they have been
done out of an inalienable right.

The swans' nest was in a convenient  i.e,
solitary  place, and Jack might hold Mavis in
his arms undisturbed, and she might lay her

face on his breast while she gave him her
promise that every day on that spot she would
think of him, and remember that she was his,
solely and for ever, while the river they were
standing by should run, and the wind that dried
the tears on her cheek should blow.

I shall always be thinking of you,' Mavis
said as they began to retrace their steps ; ' and
there will be nothing in my life, morning, noon,
and night, to prevent me, or to hurry me in my
thoughts. And nothing  nothing about myself
only, I mean  can ever trouble me any more.
You will always be able to be quite happy
about me. Of course I know this cannot be so
with you.'

The old wall of the fortress side of the farm,
with the buttress and the ruined tower, was in
front of them, to the right of the riverside path ;
that particular view of it was very picturesque.
Mavis added, with a faint smile and a movement
of her hand in the direction of the
tower :

There's a poem about the knights that went
to the wars  I dare say some of them went
from that old place  and about the ladies who
were left for months and years 

Still bending o'er their 'broidered flowers,
AVitli spirit far away.

I shall have something better than that todo
before the time comes for me to look out of
Dame Dorothy's window, and wave my scarf
to you like Dona Nez ; but my spirit will be as
far away as any of theirs ever was.'

That must have been an awful life,' said
Jack, with profound conviction. ' Lots of
them, too, must have been old and ugly when
the knights came back, none the better for the
battering they had had.'

Oh, but that would not matter ; they
would be all the same to each other.'

Ah, perhaps they would.'

Jack assented, but not confidently. He
was glad Mavis had said this ; glad she should
not have a doubt upon the subject : he knew

very nice women always do believe just that
sort of thing.

It must have been dreadful,' said Mavis :
they could not hear what was happening ;
everybody could not be always sending off
messages, and there was no post in the real
old time  not at least when these walls where
new. Oh, what those women must have
suffered I '

Yes ; but then nobody was better off anywhere,
and what people didn't know they
couldn't miss,' said Jack, getting rid of a
digression from the one engrossing topic of
lovers, themselves. But Mavis, even while she
listened to his delightful love-talk, was thinking,
with fresh reality and interest, of the old
house, and all the lives it had seen. The joy
that had come to her ; the pain and the waiting,
the hope and the blessedness, that were
coming, seemed in some mysterious way to
make her a part of its past. The feeling gave
her a solemn thrill. How many men and

women had loved, hoped, parted, within those
walls, even as she and her lover, and were gone
away for ever from the sun and the minds of
men!

As they approached the house Mavis
pointed out to Jack that in the last few days
all the shrubs at the top of the ruined tower
had sprouted, and overrun the broad broken
edges, and that the young sprays and tendrils
were beginning to creep downwards.

I shall sit there in the summer,' she said,
when I can have some time to myself, and
look over the fields and the woods toward
Bassett. You can see the house, and a part of
the garden terrace, from the tower.'

I have never been up in the tower,' said
Jack. ' Let us go there now ; so that I maybe
able to see exactly where you are, when I
shall have to think of you as thinking of me in
the summer-time.'

They climbed the rough stone steps, and
found themselves within the ruined walls.

Long ago, probably in Dame Dorothy's time,
a flagged flooring had been laid over the
winding internal stairs, and about four feet of
wall rose above it ; a stone bench formed a
convenient seat, and even now there was
abundant shelter in the greenery that had
sprung from the crevices, and thriven amid
moss and ivy roots. In the summer this would
be a fairy bower. Jack was delighted with
the view that broke upon him, revealing points
of the landscape so familiar and so dear to him,
under a new aspect.

The old house, in its commanding position on
the hill, the spreading lawn, the woods putting
on their tender green, the blue smoke rising
in the pure air, the winding road and cultured
fields that lay between Bassett and Fieldflower
Farm, made up a fair and peaceful picture.
Jack directed Mavis's eyes to all his favourite
points, and they followed his guiding finger
eagerly, but were turned on his own face with
startled surprise when he said, in a changed

voice, * It will be hard for my father to part
with it all.'

'Part with it?'

Yes, Mavis. This is a good time, and a
good place, with all that was ours before my
eyes, to tell you what has happened to my
father.' He placed her on the bench by his
side, and told her very simply that a great
change had come over the fortunes of the
Squire, and that it was only a poor soldier to
whom she had promised herself; 'but the
richest man in the world for all that,' he added,
as he kissed the hand he had held while telling
his story. His face was grave and steadfast,
and she crept closer to his side, with an added
sense of his strength and manliness, as, instead
of the words of regret, or even sympathy, that
he waited for, she said 

Oh, I am so glad ! for now it will not
matter so much.'

So glad, Mavis ! what can you mean . '

'I am sorry for the Squire, of course ;

and I oiifrht to think of him first, but I cannot.
Did you believe that I did not know what a
difference there is between us ? If you really
are poor, as you say, and have to make yoir
own way, so much the better for me. I shall
be far, far happier, and surely the Squire will
not mind so much ? '

Jack was touched, but also relieved, by
Mavis's words. They were worthy of her
womanliness and simplicity, but they showed
Jack that she was not all untroubled by the
reflections that had disturbed him ; she too
was aware that the Squire might be expected
to ' mind.' There would be no risk of his
giving her offence by touching on his difficulties,
and proposing a plan that had presented
itself to him during their walk. This was
no other than the keeping of their blissful
secret from the knowledge of everybody,
hoarding it up in their own hearts, a treasure
of strength, hope, and consolation to both
during his absence, not revealing it until, as he
VOL. I. s

hoped, his conduct and his fortune in the
Service would have given his father such
reason to be pleased with him that any concession
would come easy to the Squire.

How cordially Jack Bassett now hated the
memory of his recent follies ! With what contempt
he regarded his own self of only a few
weeks before I The wholesome humility of a
true love was in the young man's heart, as he
assured Mavis, in all fervent sincerity, that she
was a thousand times too good for him, and
that his father, when he came to know her,
would think so too, although he had much too
high an opinion of his only son. It was entirely
reasonable, according to their notions,
for these young lovers to regard the fact that
they loved each other as of supreme and unapproachable
importance, and all other considerations
as merely relative ; but so soon as they
agreed to face those other considerations, generously
to spare to them a slice out of their paradise,
it was astonishing how they grew and waxed

strong. Jack was as yet a long way from
asking himself any such practical question as
how was he to marry, even were his liberally
estimated ' chances ' realised ; but the other
difficulties of the position began to define
themselves.

A serious and business-like conference between
the lovers now tcok place, in which
Jack learned from Mavis enough of her daily
life and experience to show him that his suspicions
of Wynn were well founded. Mavis
did not willingly tell the tale of her father's
tyranny, and the wretchedness of her home,
but she could not refuse her lover's appeal.

I must know how I leave you, and to
what,' he said ; ' I must be able to follow your
life from day to day. There cannot be any
secrets between us.'

She was obliged to tell him that her father
was unkind, harsh, and violent, and that she
lived in great fear of him. Jack restrained as
well as he could the wrath with which this

s 2

avowal filled him, and asked lier how she
thought Wynn would take their engagement ?

I don't know ; I cannot guess. I know
in reality nothing at all of my father outside of
the things that happen every day. He tells us
nothing ; we are not his companions ; we don't
know what he would think or do about anything.
Because it would make me very happy,
I  I am afraid he would refuse.'

'Refuse! Why he cannot, Mavis; I mean
he cannot prevent our marriage when the time
comes. There is no power on earth,' Jack
went on, with flashing, angry eyes, ' that can
do that if you are true to me.'
And if you are true to me.'
Nonsense ! that's not the same thing. I
true to you ! Talk of that when the needle
does not point to the north in these latitudes.
I'm my own master, darling ; no one can control
me. But you may be bullied, and that is dreadful
to think of.'

He never lets us know his mind. Even

now something is going on unknown to us.
He has been constantly away. It would have
been impossible for us to have seen you so
often, if he had not been taken up with something
that he is keeping from us.'

Jack privately bestowed a benediction on
the farmer's secretiveness, and suggested that
his conduct was a reason for their keeping their
secret until circumstances should make it necessary
to reveal it.

Mavis acquiesced ; the suggestion was a
great relief; but she begged for one modification.


Mrs. Wynn is so fond of me,' she said, ' and
she frets so much about me  though her own
trouble might be enough for her  that I should
like to be able to relieve her mind. It would
be different for her if she might only know that
nothing can harm or hurt me, that no one in
the world can trouble me any more ! '

And that is so, Mavis ? '

Jack spoke solemnly, and with tears in his

eyes, so beautiful was the girl's absolute trust
and sacred love.

Yes,' she answered, smiling. ' That is what
it means, isn't it ? '

This is what it shall mean, so help me
God ! '

Mavis looked quietly at him, wondering a
little at his emotion, and continued 

My life has been hard sometimes, but it
will not be hard any more ; and I shall be able
to make it easier for her now that I shall not
have myself to think of at all. The days will
pass, not quickly, because for a while they
cannot bring you, but they will be full of you ;
and the rest will not signify. Let me tell her.
Jack.'

Of course you shall tell her. Poor woman !
But I am glad she appreciates you, darling.
And it will be better for you to have one person
to speak to. Perhaps she will not be very
much surprised. Don't you think she must
have known that I fell in love with you that

day when she was so charitable as to tell me
that you were at the parsonage ? or at least
that she must be well aware of the fact
now ? '

No, indeed, I am sure she is not,' said
Mavis, blushing celestially, and much confused ;
because  because she thinks you are going to
be married to a " great lady "  Miss Nestle
told her so.'

Did she indeed ? ' cried Jack, with a boyish,
gleeful laugh. ' What a well-conducted
lover the great lady would have if I were he,
and how divinely free from jealousy she would
have to be ! No, no, the great lady exists
only in Miss Nestle's imagination, assisted
by her wishes. Even if I had never met
you, Mavis, I could never marry for any motive
but the one. Do you care to know this, my
darling ? ' He drew her closely to his breast,
and spoke very low. ' I am not all unworthy
to ask for such a treasure as your love and
promise ; for, though I have been a fool in

many things, I have never even imagined that
I loved any woman but you.'

These words achieved the turning of earth
into heaven for Mavis.

The rest of their talk turned chiefly upon
the mode of Mavis's life in the absence of Jack.
Perhaps, if she had ever known paternal love,
or filial confidence, Mavis would not have consented
so readily to Jack's proposal of silence.
But she had no sense that she was doing wrong
towards her own father, and she implicitly
believed that Jack must know best about his.
Mavis had never seen the Squire.

The question of correspondence now arose,
and it presented a difficulty. Mavis could not
receive letters openly without question. It
was rarely indeed that the letter-carrier brought
anything to the farm, to the address of the
farmer's wife or daughter. Twice or thrice a
year, perhaps, the former would hear from her
sister, who was now foreman in a milliner's
shop at Liverpool. Mavis occasionally had a

letter from a former pupil of her Uncle Jeffrey,
a Miss Silicate, who lived in London ; but she
had no other correspondent.

Jack's countenance fell when Mavis told
him this, and he began to think, but with no
immediate result, how the difficulty might be
met. Nothing that he had seen or heard gave
him so clear a notion of the narrow meagreness
of the life to which Mavis was condemned, as
this particular feature of it. How delightful it
would be to rescue her some day from this
vulgar dulness and slavery !

Mavis could make no suggestion ; when
they had to go into details of this kind she
felt the pain of the inevitable secrecy, and
it embarrassed her. But she was not absolutely
unreasonable ; she knew her happiness
must have some drawback, and here it
was.

We must let this point be unsettled until
tomorrow,' said Jack, looking at his watch,
'for now I must leave you. I have to dress

and drive to Trescoe Park, and shall barely
have time to do it in.'

Are there many people staying there
now ? ' Mavis asked timidly, as she took hold
of his watch-chain, and curiously examined a
bloodstone seal that hung from it, locket wise.
She was thinking how much she should like to
see Trescoe Park, and the people with whom
Jack passed his time ; to get a glimpse of the
favoured lives that were so entirely unknown
to her. There was no touch of jealousy or
envy in Mavis ; her high-mindedness and sweet
temper preserved her from such evil ; she was
simply curious and interested because Jack was
concerned.

I don't know,' he answered carelessly 
there generally is a lot of people ; but Sir
Henry did not say. I don't want to go there,
but I must bid the Frescoes good-bye.'

The utterance of the word saddened him.
He sighed as. he pressed his arm more closely
about her waist, and his eyes fell on the

slender hand, with his seal lying on the open
palm.

That was my mother's seal,' he said, ' the
only thing I possess that belonged to her.
Will you keep it for me, until I can send you
a ring in exchange for it ? You must have an
engaged" ring, you know, my darling.'

Oh no, no ! ' said Mavis, ' I could not
wear one ; it would be seen.'

That's true ; I forgot. Well, it's all the
same, a ring or a seal. Wear this where it
won't be seen, and close all your letters to me
with it.'

He loosed the seal from the chain, and
gave it to her.

Jack's mother ! She had never heard him
allude to her before. Was he like her ? Mavis
wondered. She had died young, as Mavis's
mother had died, but she must have been sorry
to die ; whereas the wife of David Wynn could
only have been glad.

I must go,' said Jack ; ' let us say goodbye

here. Though it's growing dark, you can
see me almost all the way across the fields.
Look ! I can make out a car on the road now.'

It is father's,' said Mavis. ' I cannot stay
here. We will go down together,'

He left her at the door of the Dame's
Parlour-side, and she rejoined Mrs. Wynn,
again to find her in trepidation.

You don't know how late it is,' she said,
and there's many tidings behindhand. It's
very pleasant for you to have so much of Mr.
Jack's company, but I do wish he wouldn't
stay so long. I doubt we shall get into trouble
about it.'

He is only coming once more,' said Mavis ;
he is going away on Thursday.'

Mavis would have been glad to tell Mrs.
Wynn the truth then and there, but the wheels
of the round car where drawing very near, and
her story was not one to be told in a hurry.
Mrs. Wynn seemed more of a ' poor creature '
than usual this evening, and Mavis knew that

she was troubled about her ; but she smiled to
think how baseless was the trouble, and how
soon it would be dispelled. A light broke
upon Mrs. Wynn when Mavis spoke ; the girl's
voice and face revealed her feelings, to the
great alarm of her stepmother, whose instantaneous
thought was, ' If any harm comes to

her through this, Wynn will kill me ! '

*****

'Now you quite understand,' said Jack
Bassett to Mrs. Wynn when the moment of
parting was very near, ' the reason why I do
not speak to my father and to Wynn, and let
everybody whom it may concern know that
Mavis is my promised wife ? You are satisfied
you, her best friend, are you not ? '

'I quite understand, Mr. Jack,' was Mrs.
Wynn's answer, made with her inveterate submissiveness,
at which Jack winced. ' And it is
much better for us all as it is.'

It was in the Dame's Parlour that the
lovers said their parting words. Mavis thought

of them afterwards for many a day, as though
they had been spoken in a blessed dream.
Solemn, amid their tenderness and passion, were
the vows which the young man and the girl
exchanged ; for as Jack held Mavis in a close
embrace he pronounced resolutely, and made
her repeat after him, that awful promise : 'For
better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness
and in health, to love, honour, and cherish,
until death do us part.'

And then he was gone ! Mavis, standing
pale and rigid as a statue at the casement of
Dame Dorothy's Parlour, saw him cross the
little river, tie the boat up to the post, wave
his hat to her, and take the path across the
fields. The ' uncertain glory ' had vanished
from the 'April day.'

CHAPTER XI,

Farmer WYNN's BUSINESS.

All the world was awaiting with deep anxiety,
and reading, when they came, with intense
interest, those famous letters in the Times,
written from the East, which, for the first time
in our history, made England a spectator of
the great drama of her own destiny, while it
was being acted upon foreign shores. The war
was the great topic of the time, and countless
hearts in the United Kingdom were thrilling
with a hitherto unknown, unimagined dread.
Actual hostilities had not yet begun, but the
muster of the allied forces was going on briskly,
and among the young officers who went out
in the early period of those ' brave days ' was
Jack Bassett.

Every day of his stay in London was so
Mly occupied by the business of his start in
life and the preparations for his voyage, that
he had but little leisure for any talk with his
father on matters not strictly relating to himself.
He was well aware during that busy and
hurried time that the Squire, acting with his
invariable generosity, was expending money
unsparingly, and making everything as easy as
possible for him. He was also conscious that
Mr. Dexter thought there was a little too much
of this. The lawyer's notion was, that if circumstances
render it necessary for a young
man to be economical, and to learn the art of
doing without, the sooner he enters on that
course of education the better. His own early
training had been of such a kind, and Mr.
Dexter was on the whole not ill-satisfied with
the result. If he had had the ordering of the
proceedings in the present instance, the young
soldier would have started off on the path to
glory or the grave with a humbler kit and a

smaller allowance. But on those points the
Squire would heed no advice and take no hints.
Jack had had a tumble from his hiHi horse
already, and had picked himself up so cheerfully,
with never a grumble, that his father
could not bear to hold his hand in anything
that would be for the brave and manly young
fellow's comfort and welfare.

Those who have not closely observed of
what exquisite tenderness and inventive affection
some men are capable, would have called
the Squire's care and foresight, in every provision
and arrangement for his son, womanlike.
Womanlike they would also have esteemed
his self-repression and evasiveness, when Jack
occasionally adverted to what his father meant
to do by-and-by.

By-and-by ' was a good vague phrase ; the
young man used it naturally ; he had no prescience
of all it signified ; his mind was full of
himself, his heart was full of Mavis. If he was
a little careless, he was not ungrateful ; the

VOL. I. T

concealment of what lie felt to be the great
fact of his life from the father of whose love
and indulgence he received fresh proofs everyday,
sometimes gave him an uneasy twinge.
The plea by which he assuaged the pang  that
of consideration for the Squire  was a real
reason, not merely an excuse.

To say that the Squire suffered much during
those days of preparation for the parting that
he dreaded, is only to say that lie loved the son
whom he was sending from him to danger, it
might be death, with the singleness of a tender
nature, which had but one object of affection.
But in the perfectness of that one affection his
strength lay ; it inspired him with the courage
of self-sacrifice, and it made him completely
reasonable in all his expectations from his son.
The ' by-and-by ' would be for him to consider
and regulate when Jack was gone from his
sight ; he was unfeignedly glad that his son's
easy-going nature had accepted the vague assurance
that it would be ' all right.'

Thus there was not any shadow ou those
last days which the father and son passed
together. The secret in Jack's breast did not
produce the constraint that is almost always the
result of confidence being withheld where it is
due. The Squire bade him God-speed, and was
left to the arrows that fly by night, without the
slightest suspicion that he could have given his
son a bit of supremely important information.

Mr. Bassettdid not return home immediately
after Jack's departure. Business arose to detain
him in London. This was the prospect of a
tenant for Bassett, who offered terms as advantageous
as Mr. Dexter had ever hoped to secure,
and who was willing to consult the convenience
of the Squire with respect to the time of taking
possession.

Mr. Dexter was in good spirits. He had
been disposed to demur to the Squire's letting
Jack go away without having the whole of his
father's intentions made plain to him, but he had
forborne from urging this view, reflecting that if

T 2

he carried his point it would probably do more
harm to the father than good to the son. The
Squire's intentions he could not but approve,
while he profoundly regretted them. The offer
for Bassett came exactly at the right moment to
facilitate their being carried out without delay,
and with the minimum of inseparable and inevitable
pain.

A retired silk merchant, formerly of Lyons ;
an Englishman, very English in looks and
speech ; very fond of travelling, not likely to be
much at home, and yet anxious to take Bassett
for ten years, although he has no connection
with the neighbourhood. It sounds odd, doesn't
it ? ' asked the Squire of Mr. Dexter.

The aspirant had called on Mr. Dexter in the
afternoon, and the Squire and his friend were
discussing the interview after dinner.

I don't see that. A man who has lived his
life and made his money in a town, must break
quite new ground when he comes into the
country, and is as likely to be led by the eye as

by any other consideration. This appears to be
Mr. Lansdell's case ; he has seen Bassett, and
fallen in love with the place at first sight.'

Seen Bassett ! When ? I don't remember
any one of that name ever coming there.'

No, he does not know you. He was there
last week. He came to know that you might
be open to an offer through your tenant, Farmer
Wynn. He met Wynn at Chester, and got into
conversation with him accidentally. It was he
who took Mr. Lansdell to Bassett, and procured
him a sight of the house, without waiting for
formal permission from you.'

The Squire smiled :

Wynn thought he was advancing his own
business by giving mine a shove. And he
is right. When 'tis to be done, 'twere well that
it Averse done quickly. I wonder what sort of
reception Miss Nestle gave him. It would not
have been a cordial one if she had any inkling
of the truth.'

The Squire spoke lightly, but there was

a look of anxiety in his face. The faithful
servant, who would regard any interruption of
the decorous and long-descended prosperity of
Bassett of Bassett as unaccountable misbehaviour
on the part of Providence, was a serious consideration
to him. It would be hard to console
or appease Miss Nestle ; she would be sure to
denounce the law and its exponents, and to hold,
until the end of her days, the firm belief that
the Squire had been victim of a dark conspiracy.


Ah ! I wonder,' said Mr. Dexter. ' He was
immensely pleased with everything, and, as you
know, applied to me ; that, also, on Wynn's information.
He is a shrewd and practical man,
I should say, but, like many men of that kind,
content to pay a fancy price for a fancy. He
was very cordial and pleasant when the formal
part of our interview was over, and seemed
chiefly anxious to make it plain that he was
entirely at your disposal in all secondary
matters.'

Will it be necessary for me to meet this
gentleman ? '

Not exactly necessary,' answered Mr.
Dexter, ' at least for the present ; but, as you
will certainly have to meet him afterwards, and
will like to be on friendly terms with him,
if only for the sake of your people '  (he knew
his words were making the Squire wince, but
he felt bound to say them)  ' do you not think
it would be as well for you to make his
acquaintance now ? '

The Squire agreed, but with evident reluctance.
Here was a point on which his habit of
procrastination would have led him into hesitation
that could only cause more pain in the future.
It was like him to have made up his mind,
with external calmness and comparative ease, to
the great change in his way of life that was
demanded, and then to find a single detail of it
almost intolerable, to shrink from coming face
to face with the man who was to fill his place.
He leaned forward, with his elbow on the table.

and Ills eyes shaded by his hand, while Mr.
Dexter repeated the sum of the conversation
between himself and Mr. Lansdell, and thought
that the feelings of a disembodied spirit, revisiting
the scene where it had lived, been replaced,
and forgotten, would be something like his
own. But he soon shook off this mood, and
was his patient and practical self once more.

There was so much good-will on both sides,
that the weighty matter of the letting of Bassett,
the park, the home-farm, and the house,
to Mr. Lansdell for ten years, at a rent which
would enable the Squire to do all that was
obligatory upon him, was effected with surprising
celerity. Before a hint of the changes
impending at Basset t had reached the ears of
the neighbourhood, while the prolonged absence
of the Squire and the departure of Jack
were still talked of at the general shop in the
village, and at the gatherings in the churchyard
after divine service, a great revolution had been
silently effected, and the house on the hill had

passed into the tenancy of a stranger whose
name had never been heard in the place.

It was not the least remarkable feature of a
transaction which had sufficient appositeness
and concurrence of convenience to realise
Tony Bumpkin's ' concatenation accordingly,'
that Mr. Lansdell was not only in no hurry to
take possession of his newly acquired mansion,
but that he was actually about to leave
England. He was detained only by the formalities
of this important transaction, whose
every step was easy, smooth, and satisfactory.
The necessary documents were completed ; the
necessary investigations proved entirely satisfactory
; the Squire and Mr. Lansdell met, and
got on very well together. Certain feelings
inseparable from the position, and his anxiety
to observe what manner of man the person was
who must now inevitably possess influence in the
place where he himself had so long exercised it,
preserved the Squire from falling into the
absence of mind that sometimes made strangers

set him down as cold, stiff, and indifferent.
The manner of the new master of Bassett
was blameless.

It had not escaped the quick perception o
Mr. Dexter that the Squire's tenant was very
observant of him, although he did not make
the mistake  into which a less well-bred person
might have fallen  of pressing attentions upon
Mr. Bassett. The arrangement by which the
Bassett library was to remain undisturbed was
suggested by Mr. Lansdell as a favour to himself,
and he added a request that, as much as
possible, the household should be left as it was
then constituted. At this Mr. Dexter shook
his head : the mainstay of all things at Bassett
was Miss Nestle, and she would go with the
Squire, however heart-breaking it might be to
her to leave the scene of her long and undisputed
rule. No doubt she would not refuse to
make proper provision for the well-being of
the house ; but, as Mr. Dexter felt certain she
would hate Mr. Lansdell's very name, he did

not venture to be cordial in his assurances.
He got out of the matter, as lie thought, by suggesting
that as the new tenant did not intend
to take immediate possession, or even to visit
the place at present, he ought to be represented
there by his own man of business. At
this point a fresh surprise awaited Mr. Dexter.
Mr. Lansdell told him that he was not in the
habit of employing any such functionary ; that
he transacted all his affairs himself, as he had
done in the present instance ; and, in everything
that concerned Bassett during his tenancy
of the place, wished Mr. Dexter himself to act
lor him.

There cannot, I am sure, be any objection,
either professional or personal, to your doing
this,' continued Mr. Lansdell. ' The interests
of Squire Bassett and myself cannot possibly
clash in any way ; and it would be impossible
to devise an arrangement better for both parties.'


The Squire, to whom Mr. Dexter referred

this proposal, was of Mr. Lansdell's opinion ;
the new tenant had his own way in this particular
also, and the business was concluded
with friendliness on all sides.

Mr. Lansdell went back to his hotel, after
his final visit to Mr. Dexter, in a complacent
state of mind. Before he was at liberty to eat
his last dinner and go to his last play in a city
where the sun's visits were of the angelic order,
he had only to write the following lines to a
friend : 

It is all settled. I start tomorrow. D. is
a fine old fellow, but you were right ; he is
much too honest to be trusted  it was well
you saw him and discovered that. I shall
report myself speedily.

'D. L.'

The writer addressed this missive to 

Monsieur Eeveillon,

Eue Neuve des Maturing, 100,

Paris.'
 * * * *

It would still be some time before news of
Jack could reach England. In the Crimean
war time we used to talk about the suspense
to which our predecessors were condemned
in the days of the Great Duke and the Corsican
adventurer, and now, regarded in comparison
with the daily epitome of the current history of
the world for which we now look as a matter
of course, communication seems to have been
slow in ' the fifties.' The Squire lingered on in
London until he had heard from Jack of his
safe arrival, and all the world was reading the
brilliant Times correspondent's letter that told
of the making of the intrenched camp at Bulari,
the vastness and convenience of the new
barracks at Scutari, and the approaching departure
of the allied forces for Varna.

The Squire was affected as well as pleased
by Jack's letter. The boy was a man now, and
a soldier ; taking heartily to the life that he
lead selected for himself ; an active life, at least in
this initial stage of it. What would he make

of it ? The Squire asked of Fate the same
question we all ask about our children, and
followed it up with the reflection that comes to
the majority of us, whatever may be our external
record : ' I trust not such a failure as I
have made of mine.' Then, referring acain to
the letter that seemed to him to mark an epoch,
the Squire dwelt with satisfaction upon the
unlikeness of Jack to himself. ' He has ever y
quality that goes to the forming of a successful,
popular, happy man ; he will not be ruled
by the fastidious pride and the egotistical
sensitiveness that have made the very opposite
of me. I don't think Jack will ever disappoint
me, or be himself disappointed very deeply by
anything, after the admirable way in which he
has taken all this.'

*****

The ' general shop ' is an old-world institution
still surviving in many English villages,
and at the time of this story it usually combined
the proper purposes denoted by its name

Avitli the functions of a post-office. The general
shop in the village of Bassett was a case in
point, and a great centre of news and gossip as
well. Its proprietor was a Welshman, so like
Eeuben Jones, come to more than middle age,
and worn with prolonged distribution of groceries,
cheap prints, choice flannel, articles of
ironmongery, and postage stamps, that he
might have been that youth's father  only he
wasn't ; and indeed, Lewis, the baker, whose
shop was next door, was equally like the typical
Welsh boy. Mrs. Williams was also black-haired,
beady eyed, red-checked, and she might
have been Mr. Williams's sister, so much did
she resemble him. She was, however, only his
far-away cousin, and active, dutiful, imperious
rife. This childless couple were as greedy of
gain as if they had had a hungry brood to provide
for, and their community of motive united
them with thoroughness such as the finest tastes
and talents possessed in common by a wedded
pair will sometimes fail to produce. It was

chiefly through Squire Bassett's influence that
they had been given the post-office to keep,
and the privilege, though not lucrative in itself,
had realised the calculations of Mrs. Williams
to a nicety. Even in such a quiet village as
Bassett, people made a sort of centre of a place
into vvhich news was constantly drifting, and
where a word or two with a neighbour might
be had at most times for the trouble of crossing
the street. A steady stream of small remunerative
custom poured into the general shop, and
when the bright idea struck Mrs. Williams that
they might as well do a little trade in newspapers
 for which an unprecedented demand
sprang up about that time  the ' London parcel '
hour saw a daily group awaiting her leisurely
distribution of the journals.

At the general shop the first rumour of
something wrong at Bassett arose ; no one
could tell exactly how, nor was it ever traced
to its source. Some one from the village,
who had been employed up at the House, had

brought back and liberally dispensed a story of
how Miss Nestle was terribly put out about
something, and 'that arbitrary and particular
no one couldn't please her ; ' and how, as it was
well known she had nobody belonging to her,
and did not ' look beyond ' the Squire, there
could be no doubt but that trouble had come to
him. This story went farther than this, even
extending to a hint, from which the talebearer
seemed to shrink as from something sacrilegious,
of the House being let to a strange family, and
the Squire going away ' to foreign parts.'

This rumour reached the ears of Mavis
Wynn, as she stood before the rail of the
dark little hutch, on one side of the shop, in
which the post-office business of Bassett was
transacted by JMr. Williams, while his wife
served their customers at the other side. 'Any
letter for you to be kept till called for. Miss ? '
Williams repeated after her, with provoking
slowness, and turning to a shelf at the back of
the hutch, while her heart beat so strongly that

VOL. I. U

it seemed to rcxjk her from side to side as she
stood.

Any letter for you to be kept till called
for ? Well, yes, there is one, by this morning's
mail, London postmark.'

He turned over a small packet as sneeringly
as though he could not bear to part with the
precious thing, and at last pushed it towards
Mavis with the remark : 

The carrier's gone up your way with a
registered parcel

Mavis had come for Jack's first letter from
the East, and she now held it in her hand ; the
envelope was directed by herself, and it had
been posted for him by a friend in London.
Jack had devised this means of overcoming
their difficulty. It had been arranged between
them that whenever the newspaper intelligence
informed Mavis that letters had been received
from the army in the East, she was to apply at
the village post-office. The lovers were not
unaware that there was some risk in this plan ;

that in so small a place as Bassett things were
apt to get talked of, and that village postmasters
were not always models of discretion ; still,
there was nothing else for it. The incurious
and uninterested manner in which Mr. Williams
had attended to her inquiry on the present
occasion, and also previously when she asked
for the two letters to which Jack prudently
restricted himself while he was in London, was
reassuring to Mavis ; very likely he thought
nothing at all about the circumstance, and
would  forget it. She turned towards the
counter behind which Mrs. Williams was standing,
and asked for some household trifle ; and
then she heard what two women, who were
enjoying a comfortable gossip while they compared
samples of flannel, were saying. She had
full opportunity of listening to their discourse ;
for Mrs. Williams was so much engrossed by it
that she took no notice of Mavis's modest
request, but stood, absorbed, with the yard-measure
in her hand.

V S

Well, that is a wonderful thing, to be sure
said Mrs. Williams, when all the tale had been
unfolded ; ' and I'm sure I hope it's no comedown
along of the young gentleman that's gone
to the wars.'

Oh dear ! I heard nothing of that,' said
the informant, while the other woman shook
her head with a comfortably lamentable air.
but of course there's no saying, Mrs. Williams.
We mostly are punished through our idols, you
know, and it's well for them that has not got
any. But Squire Bassett will be a sore miss for
many ; and, dear heart, but it will be curious to
have strangers up at the House.'

What did you want. Miss ? ' asked Mrs.
Williams, roused by Mavis's moving towards
the door, and abandoning the gossips for the
moment. Mavis constrained herself to make
her small purchase, and then escaped with the
precious letter.

She was not greatly disturbed by the talk
she had overheard, for she held it to be merely

an exasperation of the truth as Jack had told
it to her. ' The land will have to be let up to
the windows,' he had said, but never a word
of the Squire leaving his own house. Mavis
carried Jack's letter unopened to the top of the
tower, a rich bower of varied greenery now,
where she was hidden from every eye, and read
it, with such throbs of joy and pain as love-letters
have caused since the first of them 
where is the antiquary who will put a date toit?
 was written.

The letter was characteristic of its writer.
All the narrative part of it was succinct and
simple ; the lover's talk was like Jack's spoken
words, manly and earnest, with fervour and
fidelity in it which would be surprising if not
altogether ridiculous in these different days,
when, if modern chroniclers of the time are to
be believed, it is the women and not the men
who make all the love. Jack ended with an
entreaty to her to get herself brought under
his father's notice as soon as possible. ' There

will be nothing awkward in your going up to
see Miss Nestle now,' wrote the simply-astute
lover, who had carefully concealed from Mavis
his discovery of Miss Nestle's suspicions.
My father has only to learn what you are to
love you ; to know that the best that could
befall him would be to have you for his
daughter.'

She read the precious pages many times,
kissed them, and shed over them tears, that to
her far-distant lover would have been pearls of
great price, to be gathered by his lips from
her fair cheeks, but which the lonely wind had
now to dry. At last Mavis placed the document
in a little silken case containing Jack's
first letters and the seal he had given her, and
hid them away in her bosom, together with the
image that reigned there, never to be displaced.
She was consoled, elated, made happy by her
lover's letter ; she was strong to face the tasks
of the day, and whatever it might bring.

Mrs. Wynn was in the big parlour. Mavis

found her regarding with uneasy wonderment
a bulky parcel that had come by post, and
speculating on its probable contents.

Your father wasn't in, and so I signed for
it,' said Mrs. Wynn. ' Just feel it, Mavis ; it
crackles for all the world like lawyers' paper
parchment, I mean. Perhaps it's his will ;
but he hasn't been ill lately, and he's not the
man to make his will so long as he can
avoid it.'

Never mind what it is, Sarah,' said Mavis,
as she hovered about her stepmother in the
graceful caressing way that to the forlorn
woman was balm for all but the most grievous
and incurable of her wounds. * I have
something worth thinking of to tell you. I
have a letter from Jack, from Scutari ; he
is safe and well, and he writes in such good
spirits.'

Then Mavis repeated the contents of her
lover's letter, with omissions, and patiently
explained to Mrs. Wynn the localities and the

interests of which he wrote, and which she had
studied by every means within her reach, since
that far-off country, whose soil Jack Bassett
trod, had become a glorified land to her who
loved him.

Life had been no easier in any of its
external circumstances to the women at Field-flower
Farm since the departure of Jack.
There was no change in the moroseness, varied
only by violence, of the man who held them ina
bondage as real and as hopeless as that of
household slaves in pagan times, and there was
no variety in the round of their occupations.
But they both bore their weary life better :
Mavis, because there was within her breast a
source of happiness that no one and nothing
in her daily existence could trouble ; and Mrs.
Wynn, because her unselfish nature had at
length found an outlet for its disinterested
tenderness, and also because the unknown dear
delight of a love-affair engrossed her to a surprising
extent. She was never tired of talking



of Jack ; many and wild were her speculations
as to what he was to achieve, and how ' high
up ' he would be on his return. Sometimes she
would approach the subject of Mavis's future
grandeur as the mistress of the House on the
hill ; but Mavis shrank from that part of the
subject. She could dream dreams of the ' poor
soldier' life, sketched out by Jack, and, to
her fancy, Elysian ; but she had no ambition
in her, beyond that vast ambition which had
already found so surprising a realisation.

Mavis knew from Jack that he had written
at length to his father. She was talking to
her stepmother of the Squire ; saying that she
wished much to see him, yet felt nervous about
it, and was just going to tell Mrs. Wynn the
foolish tale she had overheard at Williams's,
when the unexpected appearance of her father
checked her.

Is there a parcel come by post ? ' he
asked, barely crossing the threshold of the
room.

Yes, father,' said Mavis, rising, and handing
it to him. He slammed the door and went
into the small adjoining room.

I thought we shouldn't know what is in
it,' said Mrs. Wynn, with childish resignation ;
he would be sure not to open it before us.'

The next minute Wynn returned, and bade
his wife see to getting a room ready for Mr.
Eeckitts.

He is coming over from Crewe this
evening,' said Wynn, ' and you had better
look sharp and see that he's comfortable.'

He spoke in his usual bullying tone, yet
Mavis fancied he did not use it altogether
naturally. Mrs. Wynn quietly replied that
she would see about the room at once ; but
she showed no curiosity. He turned towards
the door and spoke again, in his surliest
manner :

I have something to say to you two before
Eeckitts comes. When you've seen to things
upstairs, come back here.'

Mavis and her stepmother exchanged
alarmed looks as they went upstairs, but did
not speak until they were quite out of his
hearing.

Mavis,' said Mrs. Wynn, in a half-whisper,
what can it be ? I'm frightened ! '

Wynn was standing in front of the fireplace
in the big parlour when his wife and daughter
returned. His hands were thrust into his
pockets, and his face wore its blackest look.
Mrs. Wynn, with fear and feebleness painfully
written on her countenance, sank into a chair
near the door, and wrapped up her shaking
hands in her black silk apron. Mavis,
though rather pale, stood by her side composedly,
and waited for the farmer to speak.
Her heart was strong, for it beat against her
lover's letter.

What I've got to say to you is this,' Wynn
began, ' and you would have heard it sooner,
only for the cursed clack of you women, when
you've got to do anything you mayn't like.

I've been tired of the farm for a good bit, and
making up my mind to take to another kind of
life. I've settled matters with my brother.
Eeckitts takes the farm, just as it stands, and
you'll have to sail for Melbourne in three
weeks.'

CHAPTER XV.

Tempered WIND.

Thirty years ago the Euston Road enjoyed the
distinction of being the chosen home of artists
in tombstones, manufacturers of metallic monstrosities
for the adornment of gardens and
the correction of smoky chimneys, and agencies
for providing governesses for school and family
consumption. The deep - set three - storied
houses, with their narrow windows, had a
gloomy look, for the gardens were mostly
occupied by plaster images, stone monuments,
and terrible creations in lead and zinc ; where
this was not the case, the horticultural art was
a good deal neglected, and the rockery, with
a preponderance of oyster shell, had been
cultivated to the exclusion of the higher ideal.

The wire blinds of the ground-floor
windows of a certain dull clean house
in the Euston Road were inscribed in white
paint with the words, ' Governesses ' Agency
and Registry Office ; ' while a board hoisted on
poles above the entrance gate bore the inscription,
' Home for Governesses.'

On a day in early summer. Miss Metre,
the ' Principal ' of this Agency and Home, was
more than usually occupied with the morning's
letters. The routine of her work was not
generally of an interesting kind, although it
sometimes brought her in contact with remarkable
scenes of life's history. Its nature was
monotonous, and its tendency was depressing.
Without sharing the views of the sentimental
novelists of a bygone day, respecting tha
charms, the virtues, and the woes of governesses,
and the hard-heartiness and hauteur
of employers. Miss Metge was constantly faced
by the fact that toil, loneliness, exile from
home, at the time of life when life is fairest,

and, to the fortunate, most promising, fall to
the lot of a sadly large number of young
English women who are very ill-fitted to bear
those trials. In some instances, however, she
was led to commiserate the employers of these
young women fully as much as she pitied
themselves, and to regard the difficulties of the
position as pretty equally divided. A case in
point was in Miss Metge's mind at this moment,
while she was entering the names and addresses
of the writers of a number of letters just received
in a long book with initiated pages.
She had selected two letters, and placed them
under a paper-weight, for separate consideration.


Miss Metge was a short, solid-looking
woman of forty-five, with a pale complexion,
thin, smooth dark hair, a broad sensible forehead,
eyes which, although light in colour,
were remarkably penetrating, a clear voice,
and a quiet, business-like manner. She was
invariably dressed in a black silk gown, with

cambric frills at the neck and wrists, a small
three-cornered black gauze shawl of unknown
antiquity, and a contemporaneous pair of 
lace mittens. Her occupation was a
humble one, and not lucrative; but it never
occurred to anybody to doubt that Miss Metge
was a gentlewoman. The front parlour, which
she used as an office, and where she passed
several hours every day, seated behind the wire
blind, and tent on the business of the agency,
was plainly furnished, but scrupulously clean,
and arranged with a peculiar precision and
handiness. Miss Nestle would have regarded
Miss Metge with esteem, recognising in her
orderly papers, accurately kept books, and
calmly-superintending aspect, evidences of a
spirit akin to that which presided over the
Museum.

Presently Miss Metge rose, and, taking with
her some of her papers, went into a back
parlour, communicating with the front room.
There she remained a short time, and returning,

applied herself to th two letters which
she had laid aside.

She was still occupied with these documents
when the clang of the gate apprised
her that some one was coming. Looking over
the top of the blind she saw a lady approaching
the house, attended by a grey-haired manservant
in a very sober livery, that yet had not
an English look about it.

She is early,' said Miss Metge, as she
replaced one of the letters under the bronze
hand on the table, put the other in her pocket,
and went out to meet the visitor at the hall door.

You got my note, Mary ? ' said the visitor,
after they had exchanged cordial greetings.

Yes ; this morning.'

I came early, to catch you before your
busy time. Can we talk here without interruption
. '

For the present, yes.'

They were in the front room, and the lady
looked about her curiously.

How tidy it all is,' she said ; ' I think I
could tell any room that had been arranged by
yon. And here are the old properties, too ' 
she pointed to a timepiece on the mantelshelf,
and a Boule inkstand, much too handsome for
the rest of the office-table furniture. ' Do you
remember when we used to call you "Line and
Plummet " ? '

I remember,' said Miss Metge. The visitor's
mood changed ; she sighed as she took
the chair Miss Metge placed for her, and her
face became downcast.

This lady was one who could hardly have
been unremarked anywhere ; her stately beauty
and grace had been gently dealt with by the
hand of time, although she was fully forty
years old. She was tall, slender, and in her
rich but sombre attire there was a peculiar
individuality, while eccentricity was avoided
as successfully as subservience to fashion. The
regularity of her features and their pensive
beauty were lighted up by the fire of her

dark and piercing eyes. These eyes looked
out from under the level dark eyebrows with
directness and investigating force that might
have been embarrassing, if the woman who
possessed this penetrating regard had not been
endowed with tact, taste, and a somewhat
weary and disdainful indifference towards other
people and their business ; for they said plainly
that there would be little use in trying to
keep from her anything she cared to discover.
Yet were they not hard or aggressive, but
simply seeing, will-directed, and beautiful.
Each chestnut locks had once shaded those
dark eyes, and dropped vine-like tendrils on
the smooth brow and fair neck, but in that
single respect the change wrought by time was
strange and starting. The hair, laid plain
upon the temples and braided in a heavy coil
at the back of the head, was of a gleaming
silver whiteness, which contrasted with the
complexion, still soft and carnation-tinted.
Abundant as of old, and glossy as the white

hair of English women seldom is, not a thread
in it but was of snow. Something in the face
at once lofty and absent, a look as of one
who has lived much apart, and taken little
heed of the small things and the everyday
events of life, displaced at times by a flash
of rapid perception and keen sensibility ; such
were the characteristics of the face which Miss
Metge perused with the solicitude of an old
and unaltered affection,

I have no good news for you, Mary. On
the one point which we have agreed never to
discuss unless there is something positive to tell,
we need not speak, for there is nothing. Everything
remains as when I last wrote to you.'

Then you have really come about this
matter ? ' asked Miss Metge, laying her fingers
on the paper-weight for emphasis.

'Yes, dear friend. I must have come to
London on purpose to see you about this ; but
I also had to see my publisher about a book.'

'Another book? How hard you work.

Dorothea ! And is it still a dead secret, or has
it become an open one ? '

It is still a secret. In my secluded Breton
home I am quite unsuspected, and in the world
of letters here nobody knows, and nobody cares
to know, who it is that, under the name of
Ignota," gives them a novel now and then,
into which she has woven the threads of her
own life, and poured the trouble of her own
heart. My publisher and yourself are the sole
possessors of the secret of my authorship.'

'And I should not have known it,' said
Miss Metge, with a smile, ' had you been able
to keep the old familiar scenes and the one ideal
character out of your first story. They betrayed
you at once to me.'

Naturally. I do not count that as betrayal.
But they never could betray me to him. He
knew nothing of the old familiar scenes, and in
the ideal character he would not recognise a
portrait. I am safe there.'

I wish with all my heart you were not

safe. I believe it was all a disastrous mistake,
and would be remedied if you were understood.'


Never, never now,' said the lady, hurriedly,
and putting out her hands with a distressful
gesture. ' All hopes of the kind have entirely
vanished. They have never been more than
shadows. Did I not say that we would not
talk of this ? I am here for a few days only.
I have my old rooms. You must come to me,
Mary, and we will go to see a play, and hear an
opera. So much revival of the old times will
do us good. Now let us talk only of what I
have written to you about.'

The business side of Miss Metge's character
asserted itself at once. She shifted her chair
round to the office-table, and opened her notebook.
The visitor laid her hand on Miss Metge's
wrist.

Wait a minute, Mary,' she said, ' before you
refer to your candidates. You do not doubt, I
hope, that I gave Miss Litton a fair trial . You

don't think it was a caprice that made me part
with her?'

Not at all. You treated her with unusual
liberality. It is just one of those very common
cases of a person cheerfully undertaking a post
for which she is totally unfit. How often, do
you suppose, do I meet with that kind of
thing?'

Constantly, no doubt. Miss Litton's singing
was atrocious, and her French  well, it was
not French at all, simply ; and besides, there
was a more serious objection. She brought no
intelligence, no interest, to bear on the position,
and it needs both. There was no helpfulness
in her, and she could never have been made to
believe that she was less than perfect in anyway.
I used to be amused, even when I was
most disconcerted, by her self-assertion. Her
recommendations " were made to do duty for
everything, and she found it impossible to
believe that my requirements could be other
than those of Lady Mary Dunning or the
Countess of Kyle.'

That question of recommendations is a
very important one,' said Miss Metge ; ' and yet
I have sometimes found it does not turn out so
ill to take a little risk. I am very glad you
have applied to me in person this time ; it will
be more satisfactory for you to see for yourself
what I can do for you, and whether there is
any one among the applicants here whose looks
you like. Looks go a good way with you,
I fancy  indeed, I know. That was one reason
why I sent you Miss Litton. She is nice
looking.'

Very ; but Sybil never took to her, and
then, of course, there was no use in going on
with the thing. I should like the young lady
to be nice looking, Mary, and  and as unlike
Miss Litton as possible.'

Miss Metge smiled. There was not a little
archness in her serious eyes as she said : ' You
are just as impressionable as ever, I see, and it
is as much a question of your " taking to " the
companion as it is of Sybil's.'

VOL. II. G

The visitor laughed. The sound was a
musical one, the voice fresh and flexible.

I'm afraid you're right, Mary, and that I
am still to be caught by the eye and the ear.
But what I am saying is not so silly as it sounds,
for the whole thing turns on the effect on Sybil.
Tell me, do you think you have any one on
your books who, possessing the one indispensable
accomplishment, music, has exceptional intelligence,
and is a sympathetic person ? I maybe
asking more than you can know about any
of the ladies who put their names on your books,
and tender their recommendations in evidence ;
but I thought it possible there might be somebody
staying at the Home.'

Miss Metge's reply was arrested by sounds
from the adjoining room ; a delicious ripple of
music from a piano of fine tone, touched by
masterly fingers, and then the first notes of an
Italian song, rich, thrilling, exquisitely pure
and true. The effect upon Miss Metge's visitor
was remarkable. She raised her head ; her

nostrils expanded ; the eagerness in her face
was like that which sculptors have lent to the
Hunting Diana. She half rose from her chair,
but Miss Metge, touching her arm, enjoined
quiet and silence with a look. They both
listened intently, the visitor with all the delight
of one who, being athirst, drinks of some delicious
beverage. With the-first break in the
song she whispered to Miss Metge : 

Who is it ? How came she there ? '

A young lady staying in the Home. She
thinks I am alone, as there was no knock at
the door when you came in.'

She won't leave off, will she ? '

Not if she does not find out that there's
some one here.'

They kept silence while the delicious music
came rolling towards them, and tears of the
keenest pleasure stood in the eyes of Miss
Metge's visitor. The singer was in a variable
mood. There was none of the set form of
practising ' about her revelry in sound that

G 2

morning ; in full and assured freedom she
poured forti song after song. Miss Metge's
visitor became more and more entranced,
until, as the last strains of the sweet, powerful
voice were dying away, she had forgotten
Miss Metge's presence, and was far off in a
world now rarely visited by her fancy.

'That is the end of it,' whispered Miss
Metge, as she pointed to the timepiece. ' She
will be going now. I can't let them use the
piano in agency hours.'

They heard the closing of the instrument,
and the next moment a young lady, very
plainly dressed in mourning, entered the room
by the folding door. On seeing the stranger
she paused, embarrassed, and said, glancing at
some papers in her hand 

I beg your pardon ; I did not know you
where engaged. I came to bring you back these
letters.'

The stranger, in whose eyes the tears of
emotion which the young singer had awakened

were still glittering, looked at her eagerly,
unconscious of the intensity of her own gaze.

Thank you, Miss Warne,' said Miss Metge.
Is there anything you would care to look
after among them ? '

I think not. I am afraid '  here she
glanced towards the visitor  ' I have been
disturbing you very much. I went upstairs to
get my music after you brought me the letters,
and I did not know there was any one in this
room.'

It is from us an apology is due,' said the
stranger, with a gracious bow, and a smile
that fell like a sunbeam on the girl. ' We have
been enjoying stolen sweets, indeed. I have
not had so rare a treat for many a day, and I
thank you for it most heartily.'

You are very kind. I am happy to have
pleased you with my singing.'

She laid the papers on the table and left
the room.

Who is she ? What is she ? Where did

she come from ? What is she looking for ? '
The stranger asked these questions all in a
breath. But Miss Metge did not immediately
answer any of them. She asked a question
instead : 

What do you think of her looks . '

I think they are only less charming than
her voice, and I have heard but two or three
in all my time that have given me so much
pleasure. Come, Mary, do tell me who she is.'

Her name is Margaret Warne. She is
living here for the present. I will tell you
what I know about her. She has been in
my mind in connection with this business of
yours,

This is, as you know, an institution of the
semi-charitable, semi self-supporting kind, and
my interest in it is not speculative. I am paid
a salary. The Home can accommodate twenty,
and it is generally full. A donation of five
pounds gives the right to recommend an inmate.
The Home has an excellent character,

and is scrupulously administered. I do what
1 can to enliven it for these poor young
women, many of whom return to it several
times. About ten days ago I had a note from
an old friend of mine, Dr. Chad, of Liverpool ;
merely a line, asking me whether by any good
chance I had a vacancy, as there was a young
lady whom he was anxious to recommend. I
had a vacancy. By return of post Dr. Chad
forwarded his subscription of five pounds, and
thv? formal recommendation of Miss Warne,
who arrived twenty-four hours later. I liked
her looks and her manners, but I am so well
used to seeing young people in the raw-recruit
stage of their training for the long life-campaign,
that I perceived at once she knew
nothing about what she was undertaking, and
also that she had recently undergone some
severe nervous strain or shock. When it came
to the formalities, the entering of her name
and requirements on the books, I discovered
that she did not know what salary to ask, that

she was not prepared to find she could not
remain here for more than one month without
looking for employment, although she might
remain for three if waiting for an engagement,
and that Dr. Chad was her only reference.
The latter discovery was an awkward one forme.
I had slightly strained my powers. If
the question were ever raised I might be censured
on this ground. I said nothing to Miss
Warne on any of these points, but cheered her
up as well as I could, and especially advised
her to work diligently at her music. I give
them all the same advice,' added Miss Metge,
with a queer little smile ; ' and highly disinterested
it is, for its results to myself are awful.
Then I wrote, very frankly, to Dr. Chad,
stating my dilemma. He took his time about
replying, and I received his answer and your
note by the same post this morning. I should
like to read to you what he says.'

One moment, Mary. Does Miss Warne
wish to go out as a governess ? '

'Either as governess or companion to a
lady. Of course I thought of her for you so
soon as I had read your note ; but there are objections,
and it is just the sort of thing I could
not have proposed to you by letter. Dr. Chad
writes : 

" I understand your meaning perfectly,
and had foreseen this difficulty ; but I cannot
remove it. I admit that there is a story in
Miss Warne's life ; that painful circumstances
have left her in an isolated position, and that
she has no one but myself to refer to. Moreover,
I know that, although you will have no
difficulty in taking my word for her, it is a
very different matter for you to place her ina
position of trust on the sole strength of my
word. I have so much knowledge of the facts
as enables me to assure you that Miss Warne is
blameless in the family affairs that have come
to an unfortunate conclusion, and that she has
conducted herself admirably in an exceptionally
trying position. Any lady accepting her services

would have to do so with no clearer
knowledge than this  a very difficult condition,
as I have explained to her more fully than her
own inexperience enabled her to perceive, and
one which I know no one so likely as yourself
to be able to arrange. I hope you will take to
the poor girl ; she interests me. She comes of
very respectable people. So much I am free to
tell you ; but, with the exception of myself
and one humbler friend, she is alone in the
world."

Now,' continued Miss Metge. ' I have observed
Miss Warne closely for the few days she
has been here. I like her altogether. Her
music you can pronounce upon. Of her education
I don't pretend to know much ; her speech,
manners, and behaviour are those of a gentlewoman
; she has the quiet ways and the
thoughtful look of one who has already had a
good deal taken out of her by life. She is
strictly reserved ; not the smallest indication of
her history has she afforded me ; but in that

reserve there is nothing furtive, nothing underhand.
Indeed, I have observed with pleasure
the ease and trustfulness with which she takes
it for granted that she will be neither questioned
nor entrapped. I have been thinking
anxiously over the chances for her. I do not
know of anything I should like to put her into,
even if the obstacle could be got over. The
question is  could you, being pleased with her,
and having my word for the value of Dr.
Chad's recommendation, overlook the story in
her life that is not to be told ? '

Tears sprang to the eyes of the stranger as
she answered : 

A story in her life, poor child ! And can
I overlook it ? Mary, what a question ! Is
there no story in my own . '

That is not the point. This is the matter
of engaging a companion for Sybil  a position
ot exceptional trust. You have the assurance
that the circumstances are not to Miss Warne's
disadvantage '

Ah ! if as much could be said for myself ! '
broke in the visitor, impatiently. ' Go on,
go on.'

Miss Metge went on, with a deprecatory
shake of her head : 'You have to consider
whether you could be reconciled to knowing so
very little about her

I do not think I should grumble because
the poor girl kept her affairs to herself, and I
am sure Sybil would get on with her. No, no ;
this is not one of my impulses, and it is 720t
running away with me. I have not lost the art
of reading your face, you see. Besides, what
did you say about its being well sometimes to
take a little risk ? Look at her sweet serene
face, my dear Mary ; why, she is the very picture
of goodness 1 '

And not the least like Miss Litton ? '

And not the least like Miss Litton.'

Then you would like to entertain the idea
seriously, and to see Miss Warne about it ? '

'I should, indeed. On my side I don't

think there can be any difficulty ; but perhaps
lie might not like the sort of life I have to
offer.'

Judging from what she has said to me, I
shoukl think she would regard the proposal asa
special providence. There goes the bell.
Office work is beginning. Will you see Miss
Warne now, or take a day to think over it ? '

I will see her to-day, if she doesn't mind.'

Then come in here, and I will send for
her.'

Miss Metge introduced the visitor to the
back parlour  a clean, dull room  and went
herself to prepare her client for the interview.
She returned in a few minutes, accompanied
by the young lady, and saying that she was
waited for by a person who had an appointment
with her, but would see her friend again,
withdrew. Miss Warne was very pale, and
nervous beyond disguise.

Miss Metge has told you,' began the lady ;
then, after a quick glance at her, she said, with

a complete change of tone, and taking the girl's
hand with familiar kindness : ' My dear, you
look quite ill. I shall take you out for a drive,
to begin with. We can talk much better in
the carriage. Eun away and put your bonnet
on, and be quick.'

The stranger's carriage was a handsome
brougham ; the horses stepped together to
perfection ; the rapid, even motion was a delightful
sensation to Miss Warne, who had
been suffering from want of air and exercise.
A pretty tinsel of colour came into her face, an
embarrassed pleasure showed itself very becomingly,
as, with a few words in reference to
the day and the sunshine, the elder lady endeavoured
to put her at Tier ease. As the
carriage passed the ' Out ' gate of Euston Station,
an elderly gentleman, who had been seeing a
friend off by a forenoon train on the London
and North Western line, was standing on the
pavement, with a shabby black bag in his hand,
having just hailed a hansom.

The gentleman with the black bag was Mr.
Dexter. The friend with whom he had just
parted was the Squire.

He did not see me,' said Miss Warne, as if
to herself, and her companion fancied her tone
was one of regret.

A friend of yours P Shall I stop the
carriage ? '

Oh no, thank you,' said Miss Warne ; ' it
is only a gentleman who was very kind to me
once when I was travelling alone.'

CHAPTEE XVI.

MAVIS TO JACK.

I WAS obliged abruptly to close my letter,
partly written while I was sitting by the side of
poor Sarah in her last hours, and in which I
told you of her death, and my own resolution.
Still, I am not afraid that it will have vexed
you or made you uneasy, dearest Jack, because
I was able to tell you that I had found a friend.
Now I am going on with my story. I shall not,
however, tell it in the journalising way of the
big packet that I posted at Liverpool on the
day of poor Sarah's funeral ; the same day I
had looked forward to with horror as the first of
the voyage which she dreaded with so fatal a fear.
I remember you said, when we went up to
the top of the tower, that you liked to be able

to make a picture iu your mind of each place iu
wliicli I should be likely to pass any of the time
of yom absence. We little thought, then, your
fancy was to have a wider sphere than the Farm.
Now, before I tell you anything that has befallen
me since the close of my last letter, I
will try to describe the place in which I am
writing to you, on an evening that is beautiful,
even in London, and in the Euston Road. All
this side of the town is strange to me : my uncle
and aunt lived at Chelsea, near the river. The
house is large, dull, quiet, and what in London
they call clean. I have a good-sized front
room, up two long flights of stairs. I can see
a good deal of sky overhead, a long strip uf
grass plat, with brown shrubs between it and
the wall of the next garden on both sides. A
couple of trees, with brown leaves making a
push for life, stand sentinel at the iron gate ; on
the other side of the street there is a long line
of tall dull houses. Exactly opposite is a sculptor's
yard, filled with marble monuments and
VOL. II. E

plaster images. There are two windows in my
room, with brown curtains, and there is a good
deal of brown in the carpet ; but everything is
very neat. What do you think stands in the
middle of the little table, close up to the window,
at which I am writing ? You would
never guess ! Then I will tell you. It is the
china bowl from the Dame's Parlour that used
to hold the flowers you brought me from
Bassett. I packed it up in my trunk  I have
all the flowers too  when I thought I was
going to the other side of the world. I am
safe and comfortable here, but I am very sad.
There are several governesses in the Home, all
waiting for re-employment. Some of them are
quite young, others are so far on in life that it
is woeful they should still be obliged to go on
earning a livelihood among strangers. Dearest
Jack, if that which seems to be my lot here
were really my lot, how hard it would be to
bear ! How blessed and dear is the truth,
notwithstanding all that I have suffered, and

the long time it may be until you come forme!


The lady at the head of the Home is a
kind and clever woman ; she likes me, I thnik,
and she is almost as fond of hearing me sing as
some one to whom I wish  oh how I wish ! 
I could sing the music that I have been learning
here. For I have been going to your church,
Jack, the Catholic church in Cornfields, and
there I have been struck with great amazement.


But I am straying from my subject, as
though I were talking to you, not writing only.
Miss Metge has been very kind in her quiet
way of conveying to me that she is satisfied with
my meagre account of myself, and trusts me.
She evinces interest in me, but no curiosity. I
believe that I am writing on like this, while my
head and my heart are filled with thoughts and
heavy anxieties, just because I am almost afraid
to take up my story where I dropped it, so
keenly did I suffer in forming the resolution to

remain in England. I know you will not blame
me for saying but little to you of my father ;
it is better that only what is absolutely necessary
should be said, even between you and me.
What I know about him is only that he sailed
for Melbourne by the " British Queen," on the
appointed day, a few hours after poor Sarah's
funeral. A respectable lodging had been taken
for me at Bootle, and the address was, at her
own request, not given to Jane Price, until she
had ascertained that my father had sailed.
The rooms were taken by a friend of Jane's,
and two days before the funeral I left the
house in which Sarah died. When Jane knew
that my father was gone, she told the truth
to Dr. Chad, and asked him for his advice.
I don't think he was angry with her or with
me, but he naturally took the matter very
seriously. Neither he nor Jane knew the real
position in which I was left, and it was no
wonder he should ask her whether she had
found it so easy to make out life for herself,

without help, as she seemed so hight-hearted
about my having to do the same ? She
said, she had not found it at all easy ; but
nothing could ever be so bad as my having
to undergo what had killed her sister ; and
after all, if there was nothing else to be done,
she could get me into the millinery room in
the shop she is in.

Jane told me this when she came to see mein
the evening ; she told me also that Dr. Chad
had said it would be a pity I should do no
more than that, with the good education I had
received, and the musical gifts I possess.
Jane stayed with me that night. I went to
Liverpool with her in the morning, and she left
me at Dr. Chad's surgery. He was very kind,
sorry for my loneliness, and so perplexed about
me that I longed to tell him I was not,
although a most unhappy girl in some respects,
the forlorn being he believed me to be. You
remember, dearest Jack, how I longed to tell
poor Sarah that day when you understood it

all SO quickly, without my having to explain,
and allowed me to give her the consolation
that to the last she clung to. When the end
was very near, she said to me words of most
uncalled-for gratitude, and spoke of you as
my " reward "  as if anything I had ever done,
or ever could do, were worthy of such a recompense
as the love that is your free gift to
poor me.

You will like Dr. Chad when you know
him. He is so quick, intelligent, and sympathetic.
I have a picture in my mind of our
going together to see him, and of his surprise,
and quick piercing look at me, when he learns
where the courage and serenity he praised me
for during Sarah's illness, had their source
and origin. I was free to tell him that I had
money, and of course that made things easier
than if I had been in pressing need ; but he
pointed out to me that I must be very saving.
I found he took a most serious view of my
father's probable line of action, and I conclude

that he had heard a great deal from poor
Sarah, or guessed at it himself, for he said he
felt bound to advise me to leave my father
entirely out of my calculations for the future ;
that he believed the step I had taken to be an
irrevocable one, and that I should never hear
of my father again. I cannot quite think this ;
he may not care to know anything about me
now, but it will be different when you have
come home, and I can tell him how happy
my life is going to be. At least I will try
to think that he will be glad. I suppose if
I were to address a letter for him to the Post
Office, Melbourne, it would reach him, because
I am sure, even from the little he said about
my uncle Lewis, that he is well known in
the colony. I will, however, do nothing until
I hear from you.

Dr. Chad not only thought that I ought
to apply myself to some regular employment,
but that I ought to do so at once, before anymore
of my money was spent ; and he spoke

to me of a friend of his in London, Miss Metge,
the lady who is at the head of this house.
Amy Silicate's having married and gone to
live in Scotland, as I told you in my last letter,
has deprived me of the only acquaintance I
had here ; but as I must be among strangers
in any case until you come back, it does not
really signify much. Of course I was always
thinking in all things of what you would like
and approve, and although I felt frightened
for a while, because we are both so young,
and so far apart, I soon cheered up, remembering
that after the words you made me say
that day nothing can really harm us. But it
came into my mind that as I had to go among
strangers for the time of your absence, and
had to do so without being able to wait for
your opinion and sanction, it would be well
to use another name. Dr. Chad agrees with
me in this, and he has recommended me to
Miss Metge by my mother's name, Margaret
Warne. I found Jane Price very anxious on

this point : she said several times that it was
important to place myself quite out of my
father's reach ; and as I could not tell her why
I do not feel this so strongly as she does, I
thought it best to acquiesce quietly. She is a
good kind woman, but oh, bO practical ! I
suppose this comes of her loneliness and hardwork
smce her parents' death. She has been
very kind to me, and I can see that she feels
and fears for me in the unknown world that
lies before me. This made me wish that she
could know ; and yet I doubt whether she
would understand, if she did know ; for she
would think chiefly about the difficulties and
the distance. I think of them too, but they
cannot silence the hymn of thanksgiving that
my heart is always singing.

I need not say more about my stay at
Bootle, or my journey up to London. Miss
Metge met me at the station. The Home is
almost always full : the vacancy when Dr.
Chad applied on my behalf was fortunate.

Of course I principally rely on my singing
in seeking an engagement as companion to a
lady. I should prefer that to being a governess.
You must not mind this, dearest Jack,
though I cannot expect you to like it ; you
must only think of the great misery we have
escaped ; you must only try to fancy what it
would have been to come home, and then
have to seek me at the far end of the
world !

I am working hard at my music ; there is
a good piano in the back parlour  though
probably inferior to Miss Nestle's "beautiful
piece of rosewood "  and I have the use of it,
when Miss Metge is alone in the front parlour,
which is her office. She likes to hear me sing.
Nothing has come in my way as yet, and as
I have never been companion to anybody 
except poor Sarah  there may be some difficulty
and delay ; but I have so much to think of
always, that the time does not hang heavily upon
my hands. Miss Metge has a great regard for

Dr. Chad ; she will take pains to place me
well on account of his recommendation. We
go out together in the evening, when she has
time for a walk, and she is a wise and pleasant
companion. In one sense she is as practical
as Jane Price herself; but she is a gentlewoman,
and very well informed. We talk
much of the War, and the Eastern countries,
and she has explained to me a great deal that
I knew nothing about. We read Mr. Eussell's
wonderful letters to the " Times," and it is delightful
when I find something in them that you
have already told me. 1 understand the various
arms " of the Service now, and I am familiar
with the generals' names, and the relative
positions of the allied armies.

I have a song about the English and
French flags : each verse ends with 

While their united standards wave
O'er a united host."

A French lady residing here is very disdainful
about this sentiment ; she sniffs expressively

when the others ask me for "The
United Standards." I feel sure she is secretly
longing for a signal disgrace to befall " our "
side. She is a strong Legitimist, and the
success and prosperity of France are no causes
of joy to her, because they are Imperial success
and prosperity. That, Mr. Jack, is a sound
feminine notion of politics : party first, and
the rest nowhere. I have learned a good deal
about a good many things since I have been
here.

All the ladies in the Home are educated
persons, and as we are strangers to each
other, although we are thrown into a certain
amount of daily companionship, we do not
talk of our own affairs or those of other
people. There is some really good conversation,
led and fed by Miss Metge. Our reading
yesterday was the " Times " letter, dated
May 11  the same day on which you wrote tome
 in which the arrival of the Duke of
Cambridge and Marshal St. Arnaud at Galli-poll

is announced, and Mr. Russell describes
the review of the French troops. We were a
party of quiet women, each of us with her
private unshared troubles ; the scene of the
allied camps and their life was distant and
strange to us ; but the subject took hold of us
all, not of me only, whose heart is at Gallipoli.
There is a grey haired young woman here, a
Miss Rivers ; her nerves are quite worn down
by two years' work with some dreadful little
girls, whose mamma would have it that each of
them possessed a special gift, which was to be
cultivated by the governess, but not considered
in the governess's salary ; well, even she cared
to hear of that brilliant sicht. How deposited
you will all be when these letters go out to
Gallipoli again, and you can follow the details
of what you have seen en masse !

Mr. Eussell gives such hearty and generous
praise to the French troops. I wonder whether
you too have been struck with their gallant
bearing, and " the ready, dashing, serviceable

look about the men, that justified the remark
of one of the captains, ' We are ready as we stand
to go on to St. Petersburg this instant ? ' " What
strange people the natives of the place must
be ! After reading of so imposing a spectacle
as that grand review and sham fight, with
20,000 troops upon the opposing ridges of
hills, the valley full of guns, the columns
extending upwards of eight miles, and wondering
where you were, and from what point you
savT- it, it has a singular effect to read that
*'Gallipoh, with its fifteen thousand inhabitants,
sent not a soul to gaze upon the splendid
spectacle ; " and that " while there are six or
seven French men-of war anchored in their
waters, while frigates and steamers and line-of-battle
ships are passing up and down in continuous
streams, waking up the echoes of the
Dardanelles with endless salutes, not a being
ever comes down to glance at the scene."

Our poor home-bound imagination was
strongly stirred, very strongly, as we sat sewing,

with our work-boxes before us, and Miss
Metge read aloud to us that brilliant description
of the great gathering of foreign warriors,
of the indifferent Greeks, the imperturbable
Turks, the English soldiery who " assisted " inlarge
numbers, and the fine cortege which Mr.
Eussell describes as " a wonderful vision of
prancing horses and gorgeous caparisons, of
gold and silver lace, of hussar, dragoon, artillery,
rifle, zouave, spahi, lancer, of officers of
all arms." If there was not to be any fighting,
all this would be as delightful to read as a
fairy tale ; but when I think of what it is they
are preparing for with all this gorgeousness
and grandeur, it makes me tremble. Nevertheless,
I try to remember what you said about
what you expected of me, and to be something
like your ideal.

'Your dear and precious letter was sent on tome
here by Jane Price. The sight of it made me
quiver. The mingled joy and fear in which I
constantly live seem to be doubled when I see

your handwriting, and the date makes me
realise  as, I am sure, the dates in my letters
make you realise  how widely we are parted,
at what a distance each is following the track
of the other's life. I like that young Frenchman
you mention. I am glad you let him talk
to you of his mother. You and I can understand
him, because neither of us ever knew
what it was to have a mother. I am sure he is
a fine young fellow, though not a big blue-eyed
curly-haired hero like  some one. Tell me his
name in your next letter.

'Almost the worst part of leaving the Farm
was the impossibility of my doing as you especially
desired, with respect to the Squire. I told
you of the visit poor Sarah and I paid Miss Nestle,
and the dear, dear behaviour of Trotty Veck ; but
I did not tell you how sorry I was that 1 could
not see the Squire. I suppose I must have seen
him when I was a very small child, but never
since; and when I knew that we were going
away, I had a hope that he might come back

to Bassett within the few intervening days, and
that I might chance to meet him. I think if
he had come back, I shoukl have invented
some pretext to find myself in his presence ;
but his return was not even talked of. It
gives me a very lonely feeling to think that my
Jack's father would not know me, and I
should not know him, if we were to meet in
this big city ; and yet, no matter when or
where we might meet, we should be thinking
of the same person, the same place, the same
circumstances ; we should be full of the same
hopes and the same fears. The ridiculous
rumour of which I told you in my last, was
the latest so-called intelligence when we were
leaving the Farm.

How delightful it would be if Eussia would
give up and give in, and you could all
come quietly home again ! You will quite
believe that you are very angry with me when
you read that sentence ; no doubt it is foolish
and ignorant ; but I think it is a sentiment

VOL. II. 1

shared by most women, and that in reality
we do not care a bit the more for you because
you are heroes. I do not mean that we are
not proud and happy that you do your duty,
but that is a different sort of feeling. I don't
think I want you, now, to look like one of the
splendid officers in "Tom Burke of Ours" 
but at first, when you brought me the book, I
did think a good deal about it ; that was before
you had become all the world to me. Now,
whatever you do, wherever you are, you will
be always the same to me ; and though I cannot
keep my promise to think of our betrothal
vow every day by the river-side at the Farm,
and to renew it while the river shall run and the
wind shall blow, I think of it here every day
and all day, and I renew it with my first waking
thoughts when my eyes open in the morning.

I wonder how the Bassett woods are looking
now, and whether any one at the Farm cares
for the view from the turret-bower, or likes to
look out of the window of the Dame's Parlour

across the river and over the fields ? I do not
know who is there. Among them may be a
girl like myself, and her happy fate may becoming
to her also over those fields and across
that same river. I wonder, if there is a girl
there, whether she ever tries, as I did, to repeople
the Dame's Parlour-side, in her fancy,
and to think out the lives of those who were in
these rooms before her, in the old and the later
times ? When I used to have such fancies, how
much astonished I should have been if I had
seen a vision of myself as I am now  all alone
in London, and waiting to go I know not
whither, among strangers ! How much more
astonished if in a vision i had seen you !

I leave my letter until tomorrow. Goodnight,
dearest Jack.

*****

'I resume very late my daily delight of

writing to you. A strange thing has happened

to-day. A lady has engaged me as companion

to her daughter, after having heard me sing and

i2

seen me only once. I did not know there was
any one in the front room with Miss Metge ; I
was playing and singing in the back-parlour.
The lady, who had come to the Home to enquire
about a companion for her daughter, took
a fancy to my voice, and then, it seems to me,
Miss Metge having told her how much, or,
rather, how little, she knew about me, she sent
for me, and we had a private interview. She
asked me whether I would mind going out of
England, and said she was quite satisfied with
what she had heard, and that she did not
require any recommendation beyond that of
Dr. Chad. It is very strange and fortunate
that what Miss Metge feared would be a great
difficulty should be so easily set aside. She took
-ne out in her carriage, and explained everything
to me. I cannot imagine anything of the kind
more desirable than the position she offers
me.

First, dearest Jack, I must tell you what
she is like. She is not old at all, but her hair

is quite white and beautifully glossy ; she has
dark grey eyes, and a fresh complexion ; her
figure is tall and stately ; her manner is graceful,
sweet, and simple. I felt that I could be
perfectly at ease with her, although it would be
impossible not to be respectful also, and always
conscious when with her of my own youth and
insignificance. She has a remarkably considering
face ; as though she thought a great deal,
and very deeply. Two or three times while we
were out she seemed to be carried away from
the time and place by her thoughts, and would
rouse herself with a kind smile, and ask me
something about myself. But this was not
until we had talked over the matter, and come to
an agreement. Her great anxiety is about her
daughter, whether she will like me and I shall
like her. The chief requisite is that the young
lady's companion should play and sing well ;
for she is extremely fond of music. " My wish
is," she said, " that you should find a happy
home with us, for as long a time as it suits you

to remain. Two young girls like yourself and
my daughter, on an equality in every respect,
as I should wish you to be, ought to be able to
settle down into your own and each other's
ways, and to be happy together. At least," she
added, touching my hand lightly, " I think
she may be quite happy, and you as nearly so
as the fact that you are not with your own kin,
and have a life-history apart from those around
you, would permit you to be under any circumstances.
Don't imagine that I overlook or
underrate that difference." Having said this,
.she gave the conversation such a turn that I
could not think she was expecting me to
answer, and began to talk of the country
around her house  a chateau, near Quimperle,
and of the journey to Brittany.

I wondered whether I should be expected
to teach or study with the young lady, who is
about my own age ; but I found there are to
be no lessons ; nothing but general companionship,
and music. I am glad I am going to

Brittany. I have read and heard a great deal
about that loyal and faithful province of France.
My uncle had a number of books that treated
of Brittany ; he liked the wild mournful music
of the Bretons too. He used to say it was the
only French music that had any soul in it.

The lady's daughter is not at home. During
her mother's absence she is staying on a
visit with a neighbour, a French lady. I am
to be sent over to my new abode under escort
of an English maid, and the old French manservant,
who is what my uncle would have
called " quite a character," profoundly respectful
to his mistress, but almost fatherly in his
ways, and evidently incapable of having an
interest apart from hers. His name is
Gregoire, and he reminds me of stories that I
have read about the faithfulness of old family
servants in the French Revolution time.

The lady has to remain in London a little
longer, on business. She said that she should
like her daughter to make my acquaintance

with as 'little delay as possible, and, if I did
not mind, she wished my engagement to date
from the actual day. I agreed to this, of
course, and she took me back to the Home.
I felt rather confused, but very thankful for
such an unhoped-for way out of my difficulties.
I hope you will be pleased, dearest Jack. Is
it not strange how soon and how completely
all the face of one's life may change without
one's own agency . When I think of the day
that first brought you before my eyes  how
short a time ago !  how my life seemed all fixed
and dark, and how in every respect it is totally
changed, I am bewildered.

I should be frightened by the feeling that
one is so helpless with respect to one's own
fate, only that mine has been so much more
than merciful, so beneficent, in giving me to
you. It seems so long ago since the time
when I used to steal away to the Dame's
Parlour and take breath, as a swimmer in the
sea takes breath to meet the on-coming wave.

I feel as though it must have been in another
life, in a different world, that I had only one
friend, and would have been thankful at any
moment to look at her in her coffin. Until I
hear that you are satisfied I shall not be content;
but I do think I have done the best I
could under the circumstances. There is something
so sweet and kind in the lady's manner
that I feel sure I shall not be lonely or unhappy
in her house. I wonder, dearest Jack,
whether if she proved to be very kind to me,
and that her daughter liked me, and we got on
well together, you would allow me to tell her
my true story? But, of course, it is absurd
even to put such a thing before you, when I
have no more than a first impression to go
upon.

Miss Metge is greatly pleased, and has
said a great deal to me about the lady, who is
an old friend of hers. She feels convinced
that 1 shall be very happy, and that I shall
suit the position. I hope so.

I had thought of posting this tomorrow,
but on consideration I will keep it over until I
have more of my story to tell you. I was unfortunately
forced to make my last letter so
gloomy, that I want this one to reassure and
cheer you as much as possible. I am to leave
London on the day after tomorrow. The
English maid is to come in the morning, to
help me to get ready for the journey. We are
to rest two nights on the way. I have not yet
told you that the lady's name is Vivian. Her
daughter, Sybil, is her only child. Madame
Vivian is half French ; her mother was a
Frenchwoman. Now I have told you all I
know, dearest Jack, and I must lay down my
pen for the present.

*****

'All is ready; but I have not had. time to
add a line to this until now, when it is very late,
and I am tired. Madame Vivian came here
this afternoon, and had a long talk with Miss
Metge. Nothing can exceed the kindness and

consideration of all her arrangements for me.
I fancy she is a very clever woman, though I
am hardly a judge of the indications of talent,
and it may be that she is only unlike any one
whom I have had an opportunity of knowing.
Perhaps all the ladies whom you know  the
people who go to Trescoe Park, for instance 
have that calm, dignified manner, and that
clear, rapid way of judging and deciding ; but
it is quite new to me, and it is delightful. To
all but yourself it would seem an impertinence
for me to pronounce at all upon one so much
my superior as Madame Vivian ; to you I may
say that when I have tried to picture to myself
a woman of genius I have thought of some such
person as she is. My notion of a woman of
genius is one to whom subjects that are distant
from and strange to us common folk are near
and familiar ; to whom difficult things are easy ;
whose thoughts are lofty, and away from self ;
and to whom the petty desires and spites, occupations
and interests that fill up the existence

of ordinary beings, are of no more importance
than the doings of an ant-colony in an ant-hill.

I cannot but wish that Madame Vivian
were coming to France with me ; it would be
so much easier; but I must not complain,
everything has gone so well hitherto. She did
not say how long she expected to remain in
London, but spoke vaguely of business that
was detaining her. The young lady must be
pretty, if the likeness, which her mother wears
in a locket and showed me to-day, be not a
flattering one. She has large, solemn, dark
eyes, and regular features.

This letter is all full of myself. That is
not because I have been thinking less of you
than I am always thinking, but because I know
that you will want to learn everything that has
occurred. How anxiously I shall await your
approval of what I have done !

Little as we see and hear in this quiet
place, we can feel that the attention of the
town is fixed on the army and its doings.

Every scrap of news is precious, and sometimes
T can hardly refrain from letting the people
know how much all that concerns the war
means to me. When I lived in London with
my uncle and aunt I never looked at a newspaper.
I used to wonder how any one could
take an interest in politics and police cases,
and I thought all newspapers were made up of
those topics. Now I read the papers eagerly,
and even the political side of the war interests
me. I shall not be so ignorant when you
come home as I used to be. When you come
home ! I keep my heart and courage up with
those words. They seem to be written on the
air, and my eyes are always fixed on them. I
should stumble and fall if I looked away from
them for a moment.

The kind of life I am going to is so strange
to me that I cannot even speculate upon it. I
can only make up my mind to do my best, and
I hope there will be a great deal to do. It is
pleasant that Madame Vivian's house is an old

one. It is not, I dare say, in the least like the

Dame's Parlour-side ; but it has had people

living and dying in it for a long, long time,

and I don't think I could ever care for any

house that had not.

Good night, dearest Jack. Good-bye for

the present. I will close this up, take it with

me, and add to it some account of my journey.

I am for ever your own

Mavis.'
*****

Miss Metge was in good spirits. She liked
Margaret Warne, and it was a satisfaction to her
to be able to serve or gratify Dr. Chad. Miss
Warne was on her way to the Chateau de la
Dame Blanche, and Miss Metge felt a pleasant
conviction that the experiment would turn out
well. She was awaiting the arrival of Madame
Vivian, with whom she was going to the
Delphi Theatre, where the good old dramas
where still being acted under the auspices of
Mr. Webster and Madame Celeste, by players

whom to remember is a delight. Adorned
with a red opera-cloak  the correct thing for
theatre dress at that period  Miss Metge sat at
the window in the front parlour, where she
could keep an eye on the gate, and yet beguile
the time with the newspaper.

The ' Times ' had just then begun to expose,
through its Special Correspondent, the shortcomings
of the transport and medical services
in the East, and to formulate that famous indictment,
to which the poor unnamed fighting-man
 the ' food for powder ' that does not
count  has since owed much mitigation of
misery as old as time and war.

As Madame Vivian's carriage was conveying
them to the Strand, the friends talked about
the Special Correspondent's revelations, and
Miss Metge remarked that the state of the
postal service at the seat of the war was also a
grave calamity, and equally disgraceful to the
authorities.

There is no postmaster at Gallipoli,' Mr.

Russell had recently written, ' nor any person
to take care of our letters there. For example,
if a letter is put into the post-office in
England, directed to "A. B., British Forces,
Gallipoli, or Constantinople, via Marseilles," it
it is put into the Gallipoli bag. The bag is
opened by the French postmaster at Gallipoli,
and the letters are left lying in a heap till
called for. It is obvious that this is a hardship
upon the officers and men who have left GalH-
poli and gone up to Scutari.'

'Fancy having the misery of uncertainty
about one's letters added to all the rest ! *
said Miss Metge, impatiently.

Yes,' answered her companion ; ' it makes
it much worse for people at home, too. I
suppose some serious attempt will now be
made to remedy so intolerable a hardship.'

This was but a trivial incident of the day,
and neither of the speakers remembered it ;
nevertheless the postal mismanagement at
Gallipoli was destined to produce results of
grave importance to one of them.



CHAPTEE XVII.

THE CHATEAU DE RASTACQ.

In more than one record of travel in Brittany,
the palm of beauty is assigned to the ancient
town of Quimperle in the province of Finisterre.
Around the old formerly circumvallation town
in the valley through which the rivers Elle
and Isole flow, lies a beautiful country ; not
wanting in the grandeur that abounds in the
land of dolmen and menhir, but without the
brown-hued desolation that characterises a
large portion of Le Morbihan. The aii' of
antiquity still hangs about Quimperle, although
its old monuments are all destroyed, and the
successive tragedies of its long history are no
longer to be traced in the frowning fortresses
and venerable churches that witnessed them.

VOL. II. K

Only one old tower remains, marking the site
of the ancient walls, and giving a touch of
antique majesty and meaning to the Eue du
Chateau, whose picturesque hues he between
the two rivers that mingle lower down in the
valley.

Thirty years ago Quimperle still boasted
a grand relic of the ancient time, in the
Abbaye de la Sainte Croix, which was rebuilt
in 1049 by Alain Caignart, Count of
Corneille, whose tomb was piously preserved
in the crypt throughout seven peaceful
centuries, until the desecrating days of the
Revolution. The Count of Corneille himself
had come late in the history of the
ancient sanctuary, for it was the hermitage of
Gunther in the sixth century. Those who
travel through Brittany now, and linger at
Quimperle, behold only a restoration of the
Abbaye in imitation of its ancient form.
The church was destroyed in 1862 by the
falling of the central tower, when it was undergoing



repair, and only the old crypt remains.
Where the great Abbaye Blanche once stood,
a centre of Dominican learning, the traveller
of to-day finds the inn of the Lion door,
with a quaint ' Montmorency ' of pollarded
trees in front of it, and no trace of the old
building remaining except one doorway. But
for all this there is a restful air of ancientness
in the place that does not depend upon
the presence of ruins ; and the sunny, shady
peacefulness of the upper town, once the
Ville Close, consorts well with the visions of
the past that come to the sojourner there.
The outlook over the beautiful environs of
Quiraperle is a revelation of loveliness, especially
when the town has been approached
by the rude and sombre route tli rough Le
Morbihan.

To the south les the forest of Carnot, its
grand extent marking the horizon with a dark
outline. Over it the sky sharply bends its
steely blue ; through it the united rivers flow

K 2

downward to the Bay of the Forest in one
mingled stream called the Laity, and it is ricci
in the wild and beautiful legends of the province.
In its most distant recesses lie the grey
and grass grown ruins of the Abbey of St.
Maurice, a noble structure, whose doorway
bore the proud, vain legend, ' Cette maison
durer jusqu'a ce que la fourth ait bu la mer,
et que la torture ait fait le tour du monde.' The
moral of that legend is the moral of Baalbec,
and the moral of the Sphinx. The ant still
drinks, the tortoise still travels ; but where are
the great monuments, and where the men who
raised them ? In the twelfth century Duke
Conan built this one, now represented by a
cluster of rums, for the praise of God, and to
the honour of St. Maurice. There are yet
other traces of ancient buildings in the great
forest of Carnot, and by the side of the Stream
of Gladness (for this, some say, is the meaning
of Laity) fragments of a massive wall reveal
the site of an ancient castle of the dukes of

Brittany, once the abode of the terrible ' Barbe
bleiie ' Compare.

In comparison with the antiquity of the
ruins in its vicinity, the Chateau de Rastacq,
situated near the edge of the forest, was modern.
It had, nevertheless, claims to antiquity which
in any other province would have been regarded
as venerable. The chateau, with its
narrow corps de logis, its leaden roofed,
turreted wings, and numerous strait lozenge-pane
windows, shining like a beacon on a
hill at sundown, stood on a fiat plateau, with
sloping ground in front of it. The edge of this
slope formed the bank of a brawling, foaming
little tributary stream that flashed like mingled
snow and silver through the landscape. The
roughness and untidiness that are features of
Brittany as characteristic as its costumes  all
unaltered thirty years ago  were much modified
in the case of the Chateau de Eastacq, yet
the grounds had a certain bareness of aspect
in the front view that was relieved by the

sweep of the forest at the back of the house.
A formal piece of water, with a leaden
fountain in the middle, was divided from a
flat and formal parterre by a railing with a
tall gate in it. The owner of the chateau
was Madame de Eastacq, a widow, a Parisian,
and the devoted mother of an only son.

In the summer sunshine, the leaden-capped
turrets of the chateau were turned to silver, the
glass roof of the ' marquise ' glittered, the water
in the pond became a sheet of crystal, the formal
flower-beds in the parterre glowed with
glorious colour. The letter-carrier, trudging
wearily up the woodside road, put a little extra
fatigue into his gait on perceiving that a young
lady was on the look-out for him at the 'grille.'
The chateau was at the far end of his walk,
and a ' hope ' of rough heady cider was his invariable
guerdon. The presence of Mademoiselle
indicated, however, a probable gift of a small
coin at the last ; perhaps a large one, for
Daniel Grosset had a packet for the young lady

herself. Daniel's expectations were realised ;
the young lady on the look-out for him at the
grille joyfully received the packet which he
handed to her, and gave him a pourboire so
liberal that the habitual seriousness of his dark
face was relieved for a moment by something
like a smile. Returning to the ' perron the
young lady seated herself on one of the broad
steps and began to read the welcome letter.

While she was thus engaged, a second
figure, emerging from the open door, appeared
upon the scene. The new comer was a small,
slight, elderly woman. She was richly but
appropriately dressed, with a closer observance
of the prevailing mode than might have been
looked for in a region so remote from the
centre of fashion ; but she could never have
been otherwise than plain in her first youth, or
even in her second  a period frequently more
favourable than early girlhood to Frenchwomen's
looks. Madame de Bastard was not
Breton, but Parisian, and as a young woman

she had successfully practised the essentially
Parisian art of charming without beauty. Her
features were insignificant ; her small, deep-set
eyes, shrewd of expression and singularly quick
of glance, were of an indefinite colour ; her complexion
was evenly dark and sallow ; her thick
black hair had never been lustrous, and only
the perfectly white and even teeth redeemed
her face from positive ugliness. Madame de
Eastacq descended the steps with a light tread,
and laid her still beautiful hand on the shoulder
of ' Mademoiselle.'

So you have got your letter, Sybille,' she
said, in French as purely Parisian as her gown
and her cap. ' Now you will be tranquil. Eh !
the dear mother writes much ! '

Does she not ? ' said Sybil Vivian, rising ;
and it is all so good. Maman makes such
charming plans.'

Madame de Eastacq cast a sharp glance at
the papers in the young lady's hand.

She began to read the welcome letter.

Do they include her coming back soon to
take you away from me ? '

No ; she cannot return for some time yet.
She has an affair to arrange which is dragging
itself, and lie nnist wait tc> complete it. But
I will read her English into our language for
you. Did you come to call me to breakfast,
dear Madame P '

Yes ; and here comes Jean to reproach us
with the cooling of the cutlets.'

Madame de Eastacq and her guest entered
the house. No one could have detected, under
the easy politeness of the elder lady's manner,
perfect in its mingling of familiarity and attention,
the secret apprehensions with respect to a
design on which she was seriously bent, that
were besetting her. She was a clever woman
in her way and in her degree, but she was narrow
in her views, devoid of high-mindedness herself,
and incapable of recognising it in others. Not
only was she firmly persuaded that Madame

Vivian's chief object in life was to ' marry ' her
daughter, but her estimate of the good sense
and maternal virtue of her neighbour would
have been seriously lessened had she been convinced
that she was wrong in this belief. The
whole duty of the mother of a daughter was
comprehended in * marrying ' her. Not even
the misfortune of Madame Vivian's half-English
blood and breeding could have obscured her
sense of right in that matter.

The mind of Madame de Eastacq was
exercised on two points ; one was the unaccountable
seclusion in which a lady of such
manifestly easy fortune chose to live, with a
daughter to marry who would be much the
better for seeing and being seen ; the other
was the entire silence maintained by her
mother on the subject of Sybil's 'dot.' The
former was, however, a harmless eccentricity;
and however puzzling it might be to Madame
de Eastacq, it was distinctly fortunate, because
the success of her own design in reference to

her Anglo-French neighbours depended upon
their continued residence in the vicinity of
Quimperle. The latter was, however, annoying ;
not only because it was contrary to custom,
but because it gave rise to an uncomfortable
sense of insecurity. That detestable liberty
in the disposition of their own property
which English people were unhappily suffered
to enjoy, might exert itself injuriously in the
case of Mademoiselle Vivian. It was possible
that the fortune was all her mother's, and
at her ultimate disposal, and that she might
not be inclined to ' doter ' Sybil with proportionate
liberality ; especially as she held the
absurd English ideas of love and marriage.

Madame de Eastacq had cherished a design
concerning the residents at the Chateau de la
Dame Blanche, from an early period of her
acquaintance with them. That acquaintance
had been made after due inquiry, and by the
advice of M. Crabbe Fix, cure of a small
parish in the environs of Quimperle, an

ecclesiastic whose savoir vivre and savoir
faire, might, without any detriment to his
piety, have been useful in a more important
sphere of action. The mother was half
English, but the daughter was virtually French.
Sybil had never been in England. She spoke
English indeed, but not by preference. Her
graceful ways and passive obedience were
French. There was about the dark-eyed
daughter of Madame Vivian none of the independence
of opinion and action which
Madame de Eastacq disliked especially because
it was so English. There was no personal
reason why Madame de Eastacq should not
marry ' her only son Eene to the young lady
of the Chateau de la Dame Blanche, and there
was, presumably, a very sufficient pecuniary
motive for making the match if possible.
That ' presumably ' was the crux, and Madame
de Eastacq was bent upon removing it.

When, like the sublime scapegrace of the
Tale of Two Cities,' Madame de Eastacq

looked over her hand,' she noted some very
good cards in it. The widowhood of Madame
Vivian was one of these. A feeling against
second marriages was formerly strong amongst
French people of condition  its modification is
one of the notes of radical change in these
latter days  and the possible second marriage
of Madame Vivian had never been reckoned
by Madame de Eastacq among the chances
against her scheme. There had been nothing
to suggest such a notion during the live years'
residence of the handsome widow at her
secluded Breton chateau. She received visits
from the very few families who resided within
visiting distance, and her relations with the
townspeople, especially the poor, where friendly ;
but of the outside world she saw but little.
Thirty years ago tourists in Brittany where few.
There was no Mrs. Macquoid to tell them what
to see and how to see it. Although Madame
Vivian's hospitality was occasionally claimed by
a savant or an artist, this occurred but rarely.

The next good card was the gentle and
pliant disposition of Sybil. Had she been a
different kind of girl, had she been more of
a ' Meets anglaise,' it would have made no
difference in the purpose of Madame de Eustace,
but it might have considerably modified
her method, and given her son some trouble.
She had, however, nothing of that kind to
apprehend. The affair would go quite smoothly,
so soon as the two mothers, as hitch contracting
powers, were agreed upon it. Eene de Eustace
and Sybil Vivian had already met, and
the gentleman, who was aware of his mother's
plan, had been pleased to declare that she was
tres bien.' There was no evidence that Sybil
Vivian had formed any opinion about Eene de
Eastacq ; but this too was as it should be.

Not bad cards ; but there were others that
Madame de Eastacq liked less. These were
Madame Vivian's expedition to England, and
the indications of serious business by which it
had been preceded. She had come to a knowledge

of those indications through Sybil's complaints
of her mother's preoccupation and
absence of mind, and also of her own exile
from Madame Vivian's presence for unreasonable
spells of Miss Litton's company. Thereupon
Madame de Eastacq had played a very good
card, by inviting Sybil to her house during the
absence of Madame Vivian. She could always
make herself agreeable to anybody with little
trouble ; she liked the girl ; here was an
opportunity of acquiring influence over Sybil,
and strengthening her position with Madame
Vivian. Her invitation was gratefully accepted.
Miss Litton was properly conveyed back to
England ; but Madame de Eastacq very soon
found that, whatever might be Madame Vivian's
business, she had not imparted it to her
daughter. Sybil's frank, easy way of talking
made the extracting of anything in her power
to tell, contemptibly easy to Madame de Eustace,
who would have made a figure in the
high-art era of diplomacy.

In the present instance she made the primary
mistake of supposing that Madame Vivian
must necessarily regard the ' marrying ' of
Sybil as she herself regarded the ' marrying '
of Rene, and confining her speculations to
whether she would conduct the transaction on
the French or on the English system If she
meant to adopt the former, the expedition to
England became invested with alarming significance
; for the whole matter might be arranged
without its being thought necessary
or expedient to say anything about it. Her
mother might return to announce that Sybil
was to be married out of hand. If, however,
Madame Vivian meant to adopt the latter
system, ther expedition to England would signify
nothing at all, and Madame de Eastacq might
prepare Sybil to fall in love with Eene (according
to the odious English fashion and phrase)
on his return, covered with glory, from the
campaign against Eussia.

A more favourable subject for such an

experiment than the girl who faced Madame
de Eastacq at a table, formally placed in the
exact middle k la salle a manger of the dreary
order of French furnishing and arrangement,
it would not have been easy to find. Sybil
Vivian was, in all the ways of the world,

An lessened girl, unscliooled, unpractised.

Her mind was not uncultivated, but it was
neither expansive nor independent ; her disposition
was trusting and romantic ; her heart
was untouched ; her fancy was free. A being
more ignorant of evil, more unsuspicious of
guile, more incapable of comprehending interested
motives, more ignorant of ' seems,' did
not exist ; nor one who would be more helpless
if brought in contact with the hard realities
of life outside a home as effectually sheltered
from them as the Happy Valley of Prince
Tassels.

The wisest of us is not wise all round.
Madame Vivian, although she had profited by

VOL. II. L

the lessons of life in her own person, had not
escaped from the delusion that so readily besets
those whose hearts are garnered up in their
children ; the fond folly which believes that /
life may be made something quite different for
those children, that their experience may be
purged of sorrow, and the Fatal Sisters cheated
in their case of the universal toll. Perhaps the
fact that she was a weaver of fictions, and lived
much in a world of imagination, was chiefly
accountable for this flaw in her armour of good
sense, and also for the halo of sweet content
that in her fancy always surrounded her
daughter.

In her hand was the wand of a magician ;
it conferred or withheld the hearts' desire of
those whom the wielder of it summoned up
from phantasmal realms. It might be that she
had come to wave it outside the sphere of
its proper action, and to look for its spiriting
in the hard actual world. She could summon
up beautiful images of girlhood, set them in

her pages, crown them with glory and honour,
enrich them with love, fortune, happiness ; or
she (gould gently withdraw them from a world
that did not appreciate or might fail to satisfy
them, by that beneficent expedient of early
and poetical death which was not absolutely
forbidden to the novelist thirty years ago.
Psychology and physiology did not hold their
terrors over the story-tellers of those days.

A cordial friendship subsisted between
Madame Vivian and Madame de Eastacq,
although they were unlike in all but the devotion
of each to her only child. The design
cherished by Madame de Eastacq could not
have been made to appear to her to be traitorous
to friendship. She would have declared
that the only reason why it had not been
avowed from the first was the leaven of English
prejudice in the otherwise fine character of
Madame Vivian. It was necessary to manage
her a little in her own interests, benevolently
to scheme for the occasion of bestowing upon

L 2

her the privilege and blessing of such an
establishment for her daughter.

It was, therefore, with an untroubled con-
science that Madame de Eastacq played her
game, and she had already won a trick or two.
Her young guest's imagination was impressed
with the idea of the gallant young soldier,
whose mother's love for him was ever manifest
in a thousand nameless ways. The whole
house was full of Eene, and Sybil's interest was
aroused by the family traditions of the de
Eastacqs. The Chateau de Eastacq was a
dull and formal dwelling in comparison with
Madame Vivian's handsome country-house.
The latter stood at the head of the grand pass
known as La Roche du Diable, commanding a
magnificent view of the pass, and was adorned
with taste which exceptional circumstances had
enabled her mother to indulge.

The former, however, possessed superior
attractions for Sybil  in that it had a family history
; the armour on the walls of the entrance-hall

; the portraits framed in the panels which
lined the corridors ; the heavy articles of plate,
some displayed upon the black oak buffet in
the dining-room, others reposing in old coffers
bearing the arms of the family ; the collection
of old china, not very large nor particularly
beautiful, but undeniably authentic, and all
linked with the ancestral fortunes of the de
Eastacqs  these had a significance different from
that of the beautiful things which abounded
in her mother's house. Among the latter she
might wander at will, making up any stories
about them that occurred to her ; but she could
never associate them with the house, or with
the history of any one belonging to herself in
the present or the past. The rich and rare
arms, the fine old pictures, the objects of gold
and silver work, the Oriental porcelain, the
gems of ceramic art from all European countries
that made her mother's house a wonder, had
been brought thither only recently, and were
merely purchased things, like the bread the

household ate and the clothes that Sybil wore.
Among her mother's and her own possessions
ancestry had no place. The only kinsman
Sybil had ever known was a great-uncle whom
she had seen a few times when she was a child,
and who had recently died. She had never
heard anything about her father's family. Her
mother and herself were alone in the world,
without a history.

The world ' had no distinct meaning for
Sybil. Her experience was almost as limited
as that of Hans Christian Andersen's ' ugly
duckling,' who, having made its way through
the hedge, ' found itself in the wide, wide
world.' She was as yet on the safe side of
the hedge, and only the eyes of her fancy,
fed by the stores of her mother's mind, and
aided by Sir Walter Scott's novels, had peered
through it.

Sybil was very happy at the Chateau de
Rastacq. Love and indulgence formed her
accustomed atmosphere; her sky was not

changed, nor her mind either, when she left
for a while the brighter and more luxurious
Chateau de la Dame Blanche.

Madame de Haystack speedily discovered
that the apprehension which Sybil's words had
inspired was unfounded. After their excellent
dejeuner, the young lady put her mother's
letter into French for the benefit of her
hostess.

Madame Vivian's letter was simply the
history of her meeting with Miss Warne, and
of the subsequent arrangements. Sybil was
pleased and excited at the idea of the arrival
of the stranger, and by her own unusual
importance on this occasion. Her mother
wished her to return to the Chateau de la Dame
Blanche as soon as possible after the arrival of
Miss Warne

At the latter portion of Madame Vivian's
directions to her daughter, the expressive eyebrows
of Madame de Eastacq met in a frown.
Here was an instance of her friend's unaccountable

departure from custom ; of that deplorable
originality which was a result of her English
breeding. Two young girls to be left to their
own devices, without any surveillance ! it was
altogether unheard of. And the headstrong
folly of Madame Vivian's selecting a companion
ibr her daughter at least ten years too young
for the position, simply because she happened
to sing well! was there ever anything so
English? That Madame Vivian should think
her daughter required a companion at all was
a cause of offence to Madame de Eastacq.
This was a result of the engrossing studies to
which she so needlessly devoted herself; but
for those long hours passed among books and
papers, Sybil would need no other society than
her mother's.

With such tenacity did Madame de Eastacq
cling to her cherished purpose, that she had
come to regard Sybil more in the light of her
own daughter-in-law than in that of Madame.,
Vivian's daughter. She was positively impatient

of the solicitude with which Sybil's mother
guarded against her losing the habit of speaking
English, and kept her supplied with
English books. The young lady had no great
love of books ; and Eene de Eastacq's wife need
speak no other language than Rene's.

'How nice all this is!' said Sybil, unconscious
of the elder lady's disapprobation.
Gregoire is to come for me. I hope Mademoiselle
Warne likes to walk out a great
deal, and that she loves dogs and birds and
flowers.'

It will be the duty of your companion to
like what you like, and to accommodate herself
to you,' said Madame de Rastacq, dryly.

Mademoiselle Litton did not think so. She
hated walking ; she always believed every dog
she saw was bent upon biting her ; she did not
know a blackbird from a sparrow-hawk, and
flowers made her head ache. She cared for
nothing but eating, and could talk with pleasure
of nothing but lords and ladies. I hope Mademoiselle

Warne does not know any. I am so
tired of them. How soon do you think she
will arrive ? '

Much sooner than I wish, Sybille, since she
is to take you from me,' answered Madame de
Eastacq, in the caressing tone that she reserved
for Sybil only ; ' in three or four days at the
latest, I fear. I am glad, however, that you
will not have to leave me until after the next
news from Scutari comes in. You will like to
hear what Eene has to say ? '

'Yes, yes, indeed,' answered Sybil, with
satisfactory alacrity ; ' it is so interesting, and
M. le Capitaine writes so well.'

Sybil Vivian had some of the defects of an
only and idolised child. She entertained a
natural conviction that the feelings which engrossed
and the subjects which interested her
must be engrossing and interesting to those
about her, while she sometimes failed to return
the taken-for-granted sympathy in kind. Her
mother had occasionally put her shortcomings

ill this respect before her, and ahhougli she was
not generally observant, she did just now perceive
that Madame de Eastacq was not particularly
interested in her speculations concerning
the new-comer, to whom that lady alluded once
or twice as Madame Vivian's ' oiseau bleu.'
Although Sybil did not detect in this a shade
of ridicule of her mother's supposed impulsiveness,
it checked her and made her uncomfortable.
Here Madame de Eastacq made a small
mistake in her play. Sybil resolved to keep off
the subject, to be as cheerful as possible, to talk
to Madame de Eastacq about the family stories,
portraits, and legends, and also about M. le
Capitaine ; likewise to wait for the coming of
Gregoire patiently. But she ardently hoped
that Gregoire's coming would not be long delayed,
and she read her mother's letter over
and over again, almost as often and attentively
as though it had been one of those love-letters
which deplorable English custom permits young
persons to receive.

Sybil's patience was destined to a more protracted
trial than she had foreseen. A whole
week elapsed, and Gregoire had not made his
appearance, driving Madame Vivian's handsome
grey ponies i;i the London-built open carriage,
which was still an object of curiosity in the
neighbourhood. Neither did the long-haired
letter-carrier, in the loose trousers and the cart-wheel
hat, bring any more letters for Mademoiselle
to the Chateau de Eastacq.

The expected letter from M. le Capitaine
arrived duly, and made an agreeable diversion.
Not so agreeable, however, as it might have been
had M. le Capitaine written in better spirits ;
for he admitted that there was a great deal of
sickness among the troops in the allied camps,
and he recorded one or two losses which
affected him deeply. There had not been
any fighting as yet ; but the ugly realities
of war, its sufferings of the baser sort, its
wasteful casualties, wringing many hearts, but
readily overlooked in the sum of its gigantic

misery, had already beset the hosts under the
united standards.

A day after the expiry of the week, Madame
de Eastacq and Sybil were in the salon, the
former working steadily at a large piece of
embroidery for church uses, the latter frankly
idle, and lost in contemplation of the beauty
of a snow-white kitten curled up on her knees.
A servant entered the room and, presenting a
letter to Madame de Eastacq, said :

A man on horseback has just brought
this.'

Sybil was at the other end of the long room,
and did not hear what was said. She took no
notice until Madame de Eastacq called to her.
Then she looked up and perceived that something
had happened. She set the kitten down,
and hastily approached Madame de Eastacq.

What is it ? News from home ? '

Yes. Mademoiselle Warne has been at the
chateau for two days  but the maid is ill.
Here, you Iliad better read what she says.'

Sybil read the following, written in stiff, but
correct French :

Madame,  I venture to address you, being
in great perplexity. Mademoiselle Vivian is, I
am aware, prepared for my arrival here, and is
expecting that the carriage shall be sent for her,
according to instructions. I have taken it upon
myself to postpone sending for her in consequence
of the unfortunate illness of Eliza
Blount, the English maid who has been engaged
for Mademoiselle Vivian, and has accompanied
me from London. She was apparently
well at the beginning of our journey, but soon
showed signs of indisposition, and arrived here
so ill that Gregoire sent for Dr. Eenouf. He
pronounces the malady to be fever, although he
cannot yet say of what kind. At present the
case is not alarming. I have written to Madame
Vivian, and Gregoire has secured the services
of a person capable of helping me in the necessary
care of the patient. This woman's name
is Jeanne Penhoel ; Gregoire tells 'me she is

well known to Mademoiselle Vivian. I entertain
no doubt, Madame, that you will not permit
Mademoiselle Vivian to return home under
the present circumstances, and I beg to assure
you, and also Mademoiselle Vivian, that I will
do all in my power for the sick woman. Dr.
Eenouf is satisfied of that, and has sanctioned
my writing to you. Gregoire would have taken
this letter himself, only that he fears to leave
the chateau for any length of time. I regret to
have to make so distressing a communication,
and am yours respectfully,

'Margaret Warne.'

Oh, how dreadful ! How unfortunate !
What must I do? She can't be left there
alone ! '

My dear ! ' said Madame de Eastacq, firmly,
taking the letter out of her hand, ' you must
stay where you are, and keep as quiet as you
can. I will go and speak to the man, and you
may write to this young lady. I must say she

is behaving very well. She has good sense, that
is clear.'

Referring to the letter again, Madame de
Eastacq turned over the leaf:

See,'  she said. ' Here is a line from
Gregoire ' : 

Mademoiselle '  he wrote,  ' Be not
frightened. Keep quiet. Do not come near the
fever. The new English lady is an angel. And
with a head !  Your devoted servant,

Gregoire.'

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE STORY OF MAVIS.

Chateau de la Dame Blanche ; near Quimperle,

Finisterre : June, 1851.

Dearest Jack,  I resume my story a few
hours after my arrival at my journey's end.
All that I saw was full of interest for me,
especially after we left railways behind and
took to the diligences  vehicles which I knew
from books, but find much calumniated. I
did not mind the short sea voyage, though it
was my first, and I should have enjoyed the
whole journey thoroughly, only for the illness
of the English maid. She is a young woman ;
her name is Eliza Blount. Madame Vivian
was especially induced to engage her by the
fact that she speaks no French at all ; so that
Miss Vivian, whose attendant she is to be, will

VOL. II. 

be obliged to speak English with her. I soon
saw that she was not very fit to travel, and she
acknowledged that she had felt ill at starting.
I had much ado to get her through it. For
the last few miles of the journey we had a
carriage of Madame Vivian's sent to fetch us,
and on our arrival Gregoire and I agreed that
the doctor should be summoned in the morning.
She is quiet now, and says she would
rather be alone, so that I have time for resting
and writing.

With every hour, my anxiety to learn
what you think of all that I have told you
grows greater. I may soon have a letter in
reply to my first from Liverpool, although there
were many complaints of delay and irregularity
in the post-office business before I left
London. When I have heard from you I daresay
this desolate feeling will pass off, but just
now it is very oppressive, I realise so fully
how young I am, and how lonely  with my
secret history and my assumed name.

I have as yet seen nothing outside of the
chateau, and have made acquaintance with
only a small portion of the inside. The whole
house would take some time to study, for it
is like a museum  in earnest, I mean, not only
in Miss JSTestle's sense. The approach from the
road is very picturesque, and the house itself
is quite unlike the bare and grey, though
sometimes imposing structures which we passed
on our way hither. It is not old, for Brittany,
and Madame Vivian lias made several alterations
" in the English sense," as Gregoire
explained. I wonder what you would think
of the chateau ? You are accustomed to great
houses, and might not be impressed by it, for
I fancy it is not what would be called a great
house in England ; but I have only Bassett in
my mind to compare with it, and there is no
likeness between the two. I am afraid I shall
not be able to describe it so as to make you
see it, for it belongs to a style of architecture
whose name I do not know.

M 2

The approach from the high road is
through a fine avenue of many kinds of
trees, the poplar and the pine in particular.
I was delighted to see the endless rows of
poplar-trees as we travelled along ; I knew
them from books, and my Uncle Jeffrey had a
few pictures of French scenery. The front of
the house, of grey and white stone, is almost
clothed with greenery, I never saw such a
profusion of foliage and flowers of the creeping
and climbing kind, and the blossoms are very
brilliant in colour. The casements of my own
room are actually framed in yellow roses of
some early and hardy kind ; sprays of them in
their first bloom trail down from above and
wave gently before the window-panes. There
are two wings to the house ; these project on
either side of the front, but the whole building
is on a line at the back. When I was conducted
by Gregoire (evidently interested in the
effect upon me) through the great open hall,
or, " salle de reunion," as he calls it, into a

wide corridor furnished as a sitting-room, with
pictures on the inner wall, marble statues and
vases of flowers at intervals throughout its
length, and an outer wall of glass from floor to
ceiling, with doors opening upon a verandah
whose pillars are all wreathed with foliage and
flowers, and Gregoire in a tone of triumph
bade me look out, I was as much startled and
delighted as he expected me to be.

The chateau stands at the head of a wild
and rugged pass called La Roche du Diable,
and from the gallery and verandah at the back
the actual Devil's Eock is visible, with its sheer
descent to the bed of the swift dark river
on one side, and its grand supr eared masses of
precipice on the other. From the face of the
rock spring pine-trees that seem to ching to ir
at all sorts of angles, and in the most desperate
positions, and sturdy oaks are embedded among
the masses of stone. The wildness and
grandeur of the scene, stir surpassing anything
I had ever beheld, made me gasp, and brought

tears into my eyes. The house commands a
long grand sweep of the pass downwards, with
the river appearing here and there along the
curving line  in one place it looks as though
it were quite shut in by the lofty pinnacled
rocks, and lies within their enclosure like a
lake  to a great distance below the beautiful
niche in which the chateau is placed.

The sudden strong contrast between the
park-like country in front, with a steep, greenland,
flower-gemmed road leading to it,
and the wild and majestic gorge at the back,
could not fail to strike even those who have
been accustomed to grand scenery. I asked
Gregoire, before he hurried me away to eat
and drink after my journey, whether there was
any possibility of getting down into the gorge
and reaching the river's brink. He told me
with pride that there are miles of footpaths
among the woods, rocks, and boulders ; so I
shall soon be exploring the valley. It must be
terrific enough in winter, but the beauty of it

on such a day as this is wonderful ; and then
the height and the blueness of the sky ! It
must do one good and bring one peace to hive
in so beautiful a part of the world.

The house is simply furnished ; all the
decoration is white and gold ; there are lofty
ceilings and tall doors and windows on the
ground-floor. There are but two storeys, and
the centre roof is flat, with a queer bell turret
in the middle of it. There is a parapet with
loopholes all along the front. The wings have
leaden-roofed cupolas with odd lozenge-shaped
windows in them, and the same sort of loopholed
parapet on the projecting front and
sides. There is no courtyard, so I presume
the house ought not properly to be called a
chateau. As yet I have only seen the sitting-rooms
on the ground floor, my own "apartment,"
and the room prepared for Miss Vivian's
English maid. The right wing is occupied by
MadameVivian, and the rooms are closed during
her absence. The pretty " apartment " allotted

to me is in the left wing, and I was not a little
delighted to find that my sitting-room commands
a perfect view of the pass, and opens on the
verandah.

If I may judge by the arrangements made
for the comfort of Miss Vivian's companion, I
have fallen into exceptional hands. I have two
large, airy, handsome rooms, one opening into
the other, prettily furnished in a light polished
wood, and some French material which I have
never before seen  the colour is blue, with
a leaf-and-flower pattern in white. The floors
are polished, and a square carpet of the same
colours is laid down in each room. This does
not sound pretty, but it is so. The open fireplaces
remind me of the Dame's Parlour-side,
but they are smaller, and all shining with blue
and white tiles and brass " dogs." Of course
there are no fires, but a neat pile of logs in a
carved box is placed in readiness for use. On
the walls are some water-colour drawings, and
above the mantelpiece is a large mirror. This

is rather uncomfortable ; I never before occii] :ed
a room in which I must be constantly catching
sight of myself. I have a writing-table, a worktable,
and two easy-chairs ; a pretty timepiece
and lovely china ornaments adorn the mantelshelf.
There is a book-case, with a number of
books in both French and English. The
collection has evidently been made with care.
I recognise, though I have only given the
shelves a glance, some of the authors whom my
Uncle Jeffrey held in esteem.

I have often pictured to myself what a
house might be like in which everything was
beautified and orderly ; where there was plenty
of money, and no discord ; where the ruling
spirits where wise and kindly, and full of the
tastes and interests that must make life so full
and so delightful dien they exist with wealth.
Not that I should ever care to be rich, dearest
Jack ; you know that, and how happy I am to
think that there will always be a great deal forme
to do in the home to which you will one

day take me. If I say these things it is only
because it is such an unspeakable delight to
talk to you as if you were present, and could
answer me. I have often thought of such a
house, just as I have often pictured foreign
countries and old historical scenes in my mind's
eye. Now I think I have come to such a one.
The first impression the house produces is that
of peaceful orderly brightness. I imagine it to
be among houses something like what Madame
Vivian is among women.

Darkness has now settled down over the
beautiful scene outside my windows. I have
been watching the closing of the curtains of
night, and the clear shining of a few stars.
By-and-by the arch of heaven will be studded
with them, and your eyes will be seeking them
too. This thought always makes a starlit night
precious to me ; I feel nearer to you than in
the sunny day, which has no object common
to us both to show me. I am not tired, although
I am supposed to be greatly fatigued by the

journey, and I have been attended by the
servants in a way that says much for their
mistress. I must write on for a little longer.
There is so much to say, although the sense
always comes over me when I am writing to
you, dearest Jack, that it is so feeble and
insufficient. I have a thousand thoughts and
impressions that I cannot convey to you at all ;
of the one abiding feeling in my heart how
little can I say !

The steel-blue heaven now stretches its
great arch over a multitude of shining globes ;
they hang in the space between it and us. I
have never seen the stars look like that in
England. The stillness is so deep, that, leaning
over the rail of the verandah just now, I
could hear the soft lapse of the river far down
below. In the winter I suppose there is a
rapid rush of water, and the sound would be
quite loud up here. How different from our
own river, flowing so peacefully through the
flat fields and past the old walls. I wonder

whether Mr. Eeckitts uses our boat, and
whether Eeuben has been kept at the farm. I
s[x>ke hardly a dozen times to Mr. Eeckitts,
but once, when I had an opportunity, I told
him about Jack and Jill, and he said he would
look after them. I said a good word for Isaac
too, and poor Sarah and I had the comfort
of seeing that the dear " black man," as you
used to call him, was at least not afraid of
the stranger. Fieldflower Farm, the Dame's
Parlour-side, the river, the swans, they are a
thousand miles and a hundred years away from
me ; only you, and the word we spoke that
last day, are always present. Good-night,
dearest Jack.'

The following was written a day later : 
It is again evening, and I am once more
with you, but I do not resume my pen with a
calm mind. I could hardly resume my letter
were it not that it must be posted three days
hence, so as to go out by the next mail. This
has been a trying day. I arose early, and

found that the scene which had been so
beautiful the night before was even more
beautiful in the morning light, and 1 had gone
out on the verandah dien Gregoire came to
look for me. He told me that Eliza Blount
lead passed a bad night, and he, fearing she was
seriously ill, had sent a messenger to the doctor
again to beg that he would come to the
chateau without delay. Gregoire seemed to
think it was a matter for my choice whether
I would or would not see the sick woman, but
of course I went to her at once, and was with
her when the doctor arrived. He is an elderly
man, with a gruff manner, a clever face, and an
unreasonable temper. He seemed quite angry
because his poor patient could only speak
English, treating the fact as obstinacy or
stupidity on her part ; but as she did not
understand a word he said, this did not frighten
or abash her. He flurried me a good deal, but
I interpreted between them as well as I could,
and presently he became mollified, and told me

that Eliza Blount would undoubtedly have a
long illness, its nature being fever, although of
what kind he could not as yet pronounce. He
asked about Madame Vivian and her daughter ;
I told him they were absent, and explained my
position in the house. He said I must consider
well what I was doing if I remained there, and
that, as he could not say whether the malady
would prove to be infectious or not, it would be
well to prevent the return of Miss Vivian. He
then went away, promising to send a person in
whom he has confidence to assist me in the
care of the patient. This I at once told him I
should undertake. Then Gregoire and I had
a conference, which ended in my taking it upon
myself to write to Madame de Eastacq, with
whom Mademoiselle Vivian is staying, telling
her the state of the case, and suggesting that
the young lady should not come home.
Gregoire was to have gone to fetch her tomorrow.
I have also written to Madame
Vivian. What she will do I cannot tell ; but

from the way in which she spoke of the urgency
of her business in England, I do not think she
will allow this occurrence to change her plans ;
especially as I hope she will trust to my doing
the best I can.

My last letter to you was written by the
side of a death-bed. Once more I am tending
a sufferer; this time, indeed, a stranger, if
I can use that word about a person who is
suffering, and has no one but me to understand
her complaining and interpret her wants. I
have passed a very anxious day, and I am now
released from my watch for a few hours by the
arrival of the nurse. As the patient cannot
understand her, or she the patient, I shall not
be able to be much away from the sick-room ;
but the doctor forbade my sitting up to-night,
and as the illness must run its course, it would
be foolish of me to tire myself out in the
beginning of it. Gregoire would have amused
me to-day, if anything could have done so ; he
Alas ii! such a state of mind about Mademoiselle

Sybille ! That she should be alarmed, or disappointed,
or vexed in any way would seem to
be in his eyes the greatest of misfortunes, an
impossible, unheard-of thing ! Mademoiselle
is so delicate, so nervous, so " sensible," and
Madame is so desirous that nothing should
ever " contraries " her. How strange it is to
think of the difference in the lives of people.
I can hardly realise any girl's being brought
up in that way, and made of so much account.
I suppose it is the custom among people not of
my station, but of hers and yours. It stands
to reason that to be sheltered and considered,
and, so to speak, worshipped, always to have
beautiful things to look at and to use, must
make young girls very happy, charming, and
elegant ; and I am afraid I envy those unknown
beings, not because they have so much to
enjoy, but because they must be so much
beautified and refined by it. For myself, I
should never think of those things, but I amin
that one respect, like your favourite Portia.

I should like to be for your sake all that any
woman ever was, and " treble twenty times
myself," or rather, dearest Jack, what you
think me. Gregoire's anxiety set me pondering
on this vast difference. I hope I may not
find Mademoiselle Vivian a spoilt child whom
her mother takes for an angel. There is a
lovely portrait of her in the outer salon ; if
she be selfish and capricious her disposition
contradicts her face.

I have not been out of the house to-day,
and I am now going to walk on the verandah.

It is not surprising that my spirits should
be low to-night ; the strangeness of the place
and the solitariness, which must now continue
for some time, would be enough to excuse that ;
but there is more than all this. Nothing

o

changes my mind about Sarah ; there is not a
moment in which I am not thankful that she is
dead ; but I grow more and more troubled
about my father. I am obliged to remind 
of the facts, to go over and over them, forcibly

VOL. 11. N

to restrain my fancy from practising any deception
upon me, in order to ward off doubt and
self-reproach concerning what I have done. I
shall not be really at rest until I know what
you think, and have your sanction for writing
to my father, to explain my conduct and its
motives.

To-day I have seen Madame Vivian's own
rooms, in the wing opposite mine. I wanted
something out of the medicine-chest for the sick
woman, and Gregoire took me to Madame
Vivian's apartment to get it. There are four
rooms  a salon, a library, a bed-room, and an
oratory. The first is a museum of curiosities ;
the actual furniture is as simple as that of all
those other rooms which I have seen, but the
walls are Heed with cases containing objects of
great beauty, and, I should think, value. I had
only a passing glimpse of these things, as I
would not, of course, intrude during Madame
Vivian's absence. They include some enamels
and a number of gold-mounted miniatures. The

library commands a superb view of the pass
and the Devil's Eock. It is a beautiful room,
and the walls are fitted with bookcases from
the ceiling to the floor. Of this room, too, I
had only a passing glimpse ; but I observed a
pile of English newspapers on a table, and asked
Gregoire whether they were regularly received
at the chateau. It appears that a parcel arrives
once a week. Gregoire offered to bring the
next that comes to my room ; he answers for
the permission of Madame Vivian. This is a
great relief. Among the things that were
troubling me was my having forgotten to make
any arrangement for having the 'Times' sent tome,
and not knowing how to do it from hence.
There ought to be some news in soon, and with
that a letter from you. How strange and sad
it will be to read, notwithstanding the delight
of it ; for unless I am quite out in my calculation
of time, it will have been despatched before
my first letter posted at Liverpool can have
reached you.

>' 2

The messenger brought back Madame de
Eastacq's reply to my letter, and a pretty note
from Mademoiselle Vivian. Madame de Eastacq
thanks me in the name of her absent friend for
my prompt action, pays me some undeserved
compliments, and informs me that Mademoiselle
Vivian's visit to the Chateau de Eastacq will
terminate only when it is perfectly safe for her
to return to her own home. The young lady
sends me a cordial assurance that in all this she
chiefly regrets the postponement of her meeting
with me.

'11.30 P.M.  The hours are very slow and
heavy to-night ; I am " so troubled that I cannot
sleep." There is no danger of my disturbing
any one with my singing at this side of the
house, so I have sung my evensong from the
verandah, to the sky, the rocks, the trees, and
the river. You know that I used to sing it at
the window of the Dame's Parlour, when I could
j must trace by the starlight the course of the
ever you had crossed, and the dim hne of the

fields beyond. I used to think how wonderful it
was that I could be the same creature who had
sung those old hymns at that window when there
was no hope in my heart, no joy in my soul, no
love in my life. What a poor creature I was in
those past days, dearest Jack. I do not think
I knew their full dreariness ; I should have
been more frightened by the prospect that was
the only one I then had to look forward to, if I
had realised it. How rich I am now ! although
you are so far away, and it may be so long
before you come for me.

I must have disturbed a bird with my
evensong, for since I came in from the verandah
one has been uttering rich plaintive notes;
all else around is profoundly still. Oh, for one
moment's sight of you, and the hearing of one
word from your lips! You told me that in
every letter I was to say : " I love you ; I am
yours." And I have not failed to do so.
I love you ; I am yours," that is what I am
always saying to you iji my heart ; but beyond

and above those words there is something that
has no words, that nothing can disturb, and
that is as immortal as our two souls.'

The following lines were added on the next
day:

'Eliza Blount continues very ill. The
malady is running its course. The doctor
gives no decided opinion, but approves of all
I have done. I had a few lines this afternoon
from Madame Vivian, and they make me all
the more sorry that I have been obliged to
send her distressing news from home. She
writes : " I am obliged to leave you and my
daughter to do the best you can for each other
more indefinitely than I intended at first.
Some bad news from Scutari, deeply affecting
a friend of mine, just received, but not confirmed,
puts it out of my power to name a day
for my arrival at home. This uncertainty makes
me all the more anxious to hear from you that
all is well." So there is news from Sectarian
for some poor people it is bad ! Your
letter ought to have arrived at the same time

with this news. I shall write to Jane Price
to-night, to give her this address. Oh, how
ardently I hope she may have a letter to forward
to me. I am glad to know that Madame
Vivian has friends who are interested in the
war ; she will be more likely to talk of it, and
to tell me all she knows. Although I must
not say anything about you to her until I have
your permission, I feel that there will be a sort
of help in her being anxious and interested
too. But, " bad news from Scutari " ! The
words turned me cold.

I shall probably be unable to write much
more on account of the patient, and Gregoire
tells me my " courrier " must be ready early in
the day. After the despatch of this packet, I
shall begin to keep a regular journal for you.
It is impossible to describe the sinking of my
heart as I finish this page ; and, having written
the words " Good-bye, my dear dear love,"
press my lips upon them that you may find the

kiss there.'

*****

CHAPTER XIX.

ONE DA Y  M R N I N G.

Looking down the valley from the verandah
which commanded the view of the pass called
La Roche du Diable, the observer might suppose
that the Chateau de la Dame Blanche,
from its dominant site near the head of the
grand gorge, surveyed no residence of man.
In the sense of any rival or similar abode, this
was so ; but at a considerable distance from
the chateau, on the opposite side of the pass, a
thin column of blue smoke might be seen to
rise amid the rocks and pines, indicating the
existence of a dwelling at that place. Only
the smoke was visible from the verandah of the
chateau, for a steep projection from the precipitous
side of the pass, on which huge rocks

were piled in Titanic masses, with the riverbed
making a sudden sweep into a sort of
Utile sheltered bay behind it, hid the house
from view.

Mavis, contemplating the scene on the
morning after her arrival, had observed that
thin column of smoke with a pleasant feeling
of relief from the oppressive sense of ruggedness
and loneliness that almost overpowered
the admiration inspired by a spectacle so novel
to her. The deep-down murmur of the river ;
the slow flight of a bird of prey poised above
the precipice in the luminous air, then discerning
a quarry and darting down upon it out of
lier sight, with the surprising swiftness of its
kind ; the glinting sunshine that revealed the
mighty masses of rock with sparkles all over
their face in the light, but whose black frown
came with the evening ; the trees that had taken
foothold in the scanty earth, like assailants
swarming up the walls of a fortress, while others
had gained and held the place, and which were

motionless now and silent in the summer-time
but for a faint rustling, but would make terrible
moan in the winter ; all these impressed
Mavis. Never had she looked on any scene so
beautiful, so grand, or so solitary.

The verandah was supported by a wall,
covered with flowering plants ; at its foot was
a broad smooth walk laid upon the sheer rock,
with a strong iron railing at its outer edge.
this walk led, at some distance from the house,
to the steep shoulder of a rocky hill with a
crescent** of pines on its brow, forming an
effectual shelter for the chateau on that
side.

There's another house in the valley, then,'
said Mavis to herself, when she perceived the
smoke ; ' but there's no bridge that I can see ;
so they must be as lonely there as we are here.
I suppose all the life of the place is on the
road side of the chateau. I am glad there is
another house to be guessed at, though not
seen from the verandah. It must be because I

have lived nearly all my life in a town that
this beautiful place almost frightens me. If
Jack were with me I should not care though
there was not another house within a hundred
miles of us.' She turned away, unconscious of
the tears that were stealing down her cheeks,
and went to receive the morning's report of the
patient from Gregoire.

Gregoire's favourable opinion of the new
importation from England had undergone no
modification. He continued to regard Miss
Warne with distinguished consideration on
account both of her heart and her head ; but
he was not quite so well pleased with her looks
this morning. Having told her that the
patient was no worse, he respectfully advised
her to breakfast after the English fashion before
she went to the sick-room, and also to go out
presently in the fresh air. While Mavis ate her
breakfast, Gregoire imparted his views to the
nurse whom she was to relieve, and that kindly
person, declaring that she was not tired, and

also that the patient was doing well, confirmed
the old man's advice with authority.

Mavis was glad to obey. Her spirits had
flagged very much since the preceding night.
She did not feel ill, and she had no fear of
illness, but she was oppressed. Very soon now
she would have Jack's letter; it would have
reached Bassett yesterday, she calculated ; it
would have been forwarded to Liverpool to-day,
and Jane would lose no time in sending it on
its comparatively tedious journey to South
Brittany. Why was it that the time she had
still to live through before Jack's next letter
could arrive, seemed harder to endure than all
the days that had come and gone since his last
had blessed her sight ?

Mavis thought she had got the better of her
changeable moods, of those fits of despondency
that had beset her in the dark days at Field-flower
Farm  the very last of them had befallen
her just before the 'budding morrow'
had come to its perfect blossom in her ' midnight.'

Such moods must be for ever inexcusable
henceforth. Those were the fitful humours
of a girl ; she was a woman now, and Jack
loved her. In life and death, for time and
eternity, she was his.

Very well, Jeanne,' she answered, with
that sweet smile which had a charm for most
observers in whom there was any good thins,
I will go out for two hours. Indeed, I have
been longing to get down into the pass. Gregoire
tells me there is an easy way from the end
of the terrace walk, and a path up and down
through the rocks quite to the end of the
valley.'

So there is, but Mademoiselle will not want
to walk all that way,' said Jeanne Penhoel, in
the tone of conscious superiority of one who is
explaining local matters to a stranger from afar.
It is a much longer bit of road than it looks
from the windows up there. Mademoiselle will
go no farther than the Devil's Eock, if she gets
to that ; but the way is easy enough and safe.

Mademoiselle will perhaps meet some children
collecting rushes for the basket-makers, for
nobody else comes into the valley except on
fete days. The way through the park into the
town is much prettier, however, and more gay,
and I am sure, if Mademoiselle wishes it,
Gregoire will send some one to accompany
her.'

No, no,' said Mavis, ' I am well used to
lonely walks. I prefer to be alone. Gregoire
shall show me the way down from the terrace
walk, and I will be back in two hours punctually.'


Mavis prepared for her walk with lightened
spirits. She passed for a moment into her
sitting-room, to set the window open, and lock
the drawer of the writing-table. As she paused
with her hand on the key, she thought she
would take one  only just one  of Jack's
letters ; it would be so delightful to read it in
some sunny, shady nook of that wild, beautiful,
strange place below there. So she drew one

of her treasures from their neat silken case of
lier own making, and, after glancing at the
thick sealed packet which Alas to be confided
to Gregoire that evening for post, she placed
the precious paper in her bosom, and locked
the drawer.

Thank you, Gregoire, that will do ; pray
do not come down those steep steps ; I cannot
possibly fail to find my winding way. But,'
she paused on the second step, ' that smoke,'
pointing to it, ' comes from the other side of
the pass, does it not ? There's a house there ;
who lives in it . '

Gregoire made answer that Mademoiselle
was right ; that in effect there was a house
there, at the other side of the pass, just at the
back of the Devil's Eock, and that Jeanne Pen-hotel
and her husband lived in it. He added
that the house had formerly been a 'sportsman's
rest,' but that was long ago. There was
not so much wolf and boar hunting in the district
of late years, and when by an odd chance

in the hard winter the chase came that way the
rest * was not used.

A very lonely place to live in,' said the
listener.

Mademoiselle was again right ; but the pass
was narrow beyond Penhoel's cottage, and the
road to the nearest village, though steep, was
not long. If Mademoiselle wished, she might
see the village one day ; for there was a means
of crossing the pass. It would, however, be
better to go in the carriage, taking the road by
the head of the valley  a promenade much
enjoyed by Miss Vivian.

I was just going to ask whether Jeanne
had to walk all that long, slow way round,'
said Mavis, ' for I remember she arrived hereon
foot.'

Gregoire permitted himself a respectful
smile at the young English lady's notion of the
local estimate of distance and time.

'She would think nothing of it,' he
answered, ' although she is not of the country;

she is French.' (Mavis already knew that the
true Breton repudiates with scorn the imputation
of being French.) 'But there's a ready
way to get across, just above the Devil's Eock.
The people from the village come down with
eggs and fowls and baskets in the summer.
Sometimes in the winter the Giant's Steppingstones
are covered with the waters  the river
runs deep and strong in the winter  Mademoiselle
will see that. Then the planks are withdrawn,
and there is no crossing from this side.'

Mavis descended the long flight of steps,
hardly touching the handrail attached to the
sheer side of the cliff. Gregoire gravely
waited until she had reached the wide rocky
ledge beneath, when she waved her hand to
him, and he returned to the house.

Glorious summer ' was truly abroad that
day, and the power and delight of it came fully
to the girl as she descended by the winding
way into the pass that had looked so
difficult of approach from the verandah of

VOL. 11.

the chateau. Some new beauty of the scene
became visible at each bend of the narrow
rock-bounded path, with its height above, its
lower depth beneath, and, beyond the slope,
the shining river. On the side of the pass
which she was following, the variety was
greater than on the other, where the grey precipice
rose harsh, grim, and rugged from the
river bed, and the red and brown rocks  about
which, doubtless, the river whirled and churned
in the winter, but now circled quietly enough
seemed to have been flung down from
behind the precipitous cliffs. On the opposite
side the declivity was more gentle, sloping
grandly indeed, but less ruggedly, to the riverbed,
and the great boulders were intermixed
with trees, plants, grasses, and patches of sand.
Close by the river, willows, rushes, and reeds
grew in beautiful profusion, and a narrow strip
of pebbly strand bordered the water. The
wind was deliciously warm ; the stillness was
not oppressive, for birds were astir in the trees.



and the hum of insects was in the air. Looking
upward and backward, Mavis was almost
startled to find how soon and suddenly she had
last sight of the chateau, how completely the
gorge shut out all beyond itself. She climbed
to the top of a large sloping rock, and looked up
and down the valley. The head of the pass
might have been one end of the world, the
vanishing point below might have been the
other.

She walked on very slowly, pausing to gaze
and wonder at the immense masses of stone
lying about that playground of giants in every
fantastic position that a dream of incongruity
could picture. Some were seemingly so insecure
on their immemorial perches that a
moderate shove might send them tearing down
the declivity, to clash with their separated
brethren in the flood below. It was all so
different from what it had been like, seen from
above, that she soon lost her hold of Gregoire's
instructions, and the sheer height of the precipice

on the opposite side hid the guiding smoke
for which she had intended to look, making the
crossing to Jeanne Penhoel's cottage the limit of
her walk. After some time she got down to
the strip of pebbly strand by the river, and
there she rested awhile, sitting under the shade
of a willow tree, reading her lover's letter, and
thinking of their own river, flowing through the
rich flat fields at home, murmuring along under
the old walls down to the weir, with Jack and
Jill sailing stately on its quiet breast. The
scene before her eyes, and the scene supplied
by her fancy, were in their combination too
much for Mavis. With a cry of ' Oh Jack,
Jack ! ' she fell into such a passion of tears ashe
had never known yet.

When the paroxysm was over. Mavis rose,
and reascended the declivity, intending to take
the homeward path at once. She was vexed
with herself; this was unlike all she had resolved
upon ; she was at her moods again !
That must not be ; she had boundless cause for

thankfulness ; Jack's new letter was on its way
to her. She took her hat off and fanned her
tear-stained eyes with it; the moving of the
sweet air restored her ; she kissed the old
letter and replaced it in her bosom with a
smile ; then looking around she found the scene
changed by the bending of the path she had
taken, and recognised, opposite and lower
down, the redoubtable Devil's Eock,

This huge slab of stone projects from
the grey precipice which at that point thrusts
a vast shoulder into the river, and then,
curving back to form a little bay of irregular
shape, something like a horseshoe, juts
out again, much less lofty and grim of aspect,
as its long rugged line descends the valley.
Beyond the Devil's Eock was a fierce whirl of
water ; the river, broken and vexed by the
huge obstruction, rushed and tumbled there
amid masses of stone that were but playthings
in comparison with that imperturbable impediment.
She stood for several minutes gazing at

this grand object, and then, remembering that
Gregoire had told her the means of crossing the
pass was in the vicinity of the Eock, she looked
about for it.

The narrowest part of the river which she
had yet seen was just above the Eock  she
understood now why it was that from the
verandah it looked at that point like a dark
lake surrounded by masses of stone  and she
could see the heads of four rocks, so massive
and even that they might be of man's masonry
instead of nature's making, protruding a clear
couple of feet above the smoothly-flowing
Vater. On these gigantic stepping-stones broad
planks were laid. The crossing was safe and
easy, and Mavis, having again descended to the
water's edge, promised herself that she would
return on the first opportunity, and get a view
of the pass from the opposite side. She had
not a watch, and she could not tell the time by
the sun, but as she lingered there came towards
her from the other side of the river the music

'99

of the Angels bell, and she knew that it was
noon. She had outstajT-ed her promise ; it
would take her half an hour to get back to the
chateau.

Mavis began to retrace her steps hurriedly,
and, climbing obliquely up the declivity, had
almost lost sight of the Devil's Eock, when
footsteps coming towards her from the direction
in which she was advancing caught her
ear. This was not the tread of a child, straying
about, collecting rushes for basket-making; it
was the rapid heavy step of a man walking
with a purpose. In a few moments the man
came in sight. He was on a higher level than
Mavis, and there were masses of stone and
some straggling trees between them. With
instinctive fear she crouched behind a rock,
and held her breath, as he passed at a distance
of a few feet from her, unconscious of her
presence, while she saw him distinctly.

He was a young man, strongly built, shabbily
dressed, not in the characteristic costume

of the country, but in clothes of the kind that
idlers about towns wear. He was not ill-looking,
but, if the expression of his face was
to be trusted, the impulse that made Mavis
hide herself was a fortunate one. A cloth cap
with a peak, worn to one side, revealed the
coal-black hair that covered his head with
metal-like ridges of hard curls, coming down
on the thick red neck and the low brooding
forehead. Ruffianism and cupidity might be
read in the lurid black eyes, and the coarse lips
which displayed strong white teeth. The man
had not the gait or bearing of a sailor, but his
skin had the red-brown tint usually due to the
salted wind of the sea, and the outlook of his
evil eyes had the keenness generally to be
noted in the gaze of seafaring folk. Dogged
and skulking, brutal and merciless, was the
expression of the young man's face, revealed in
the freedom of his supposed solitude, and Mavis
crouched closer to the rock, in the shrinking
aversion with which he inspired her.

The man passed on ahead for a short
distance, and she, watching him round a corner
of her shelter, thoiiorht he was going down the
valley on the same side ; but he abruptly descended
the slope, and crossed the bridge of
planks. Mavis saw him disappear on the other
side ; then she sprang up and walked back to
the chateau at her utmost speed ; now reproaching
herself for her unreasonable terror  for she
had not seen the man when she hid from him
and again recalling his ruffianly appearance
with horror.

On reaching the chateau she at once went
to the sick-room, and begged Jeanne Penhoel
to take some rest. Jeanne liked the young
lady's looks still less than in the morning, and
asked her whether she was over-tired by her
walk.

No,' replied Mavis, ' I am not very tired.
But I was startled by seeing a wicked looking
man. He did not see me, but I got a foolish
fright ; for I was not expecting to meet anybody.

I wonder whether he belongs to this
place

A young man, did Mademoiselle say ? '

Yes, a young man.' Mavis described the
person whom she had seen in the pass. Jeanne
Penhoel, who was standing near the door and
in the shadow while Mavis spoke, answered
that no such person was known in the immediate
neighbourhood, and that the man was
probably a sea-faring stranger. She then withdrew,
leaving Mavis to take her watch.

Whether she was tired or not Jeanne had
no present purpose of repose. She went to the
room allotted to Madame Vivian's major-domo,
and found him seated before a ponderous
bureau, busy with his accounts.

What's the matter ? ' exclaimed Gregoire,
rising to his feet with his first glance at the
intruder. "- Is your patient worse ? '

No, no, Gregoire ; it does not concern the
patient, it concerns me. I must go home, my
good friend, and at once. Jean is here again !

Mademoiselle met him in the valley, and he has
gone to the house. She did not know him, of
course, but I knew him when she drew his
portrait for me. I will come back before night,
but I must go home now, and get rid of lira
somehow. Penhoel is alone. God send he
does not do him a mischief.'

She hurried away, and Gregoire resumed
his work with a sigh.

The '- mauvais garnement," ' he muttered,
will at all events be the death of that woman,
if he is not the death of somebody else first,
and does not get put out of the way himself.
It is well Madame is not here, or she would
bribe him again, and to the same purpose.
Now, what Jeanne has not got she cannot give.
The rascal will have to work this time.'

CHAPTEE XX.

ONE DAY  EVENING.

In a sheltered nook, with the curving face of the
grey precipice for its background, a sloping
patch of sandy grass plat dividing it from the
pebbly strand of the river, stood the house
whose blue smoke Mavis had observed. A
steep path, with fir trees in serried ranks on
both sides of the cutting, led from the secluded
dwelling, through the rugged edge of the pass,
to the upland and the village beyond. There
was little in its external appearance to distinguish
the home of Jeanne Penhoel from any
other dwelling of its modest pretensions in the
country. It was rather larger, a difference
accounted for by its original purpose, and the
doorway was wider ; but the heavy roof was low,
and the walls were of rough grey stone.

On either side of the door was a long narrow
casement, and a penthouse projected from the
eaves, lessening the light that reached the
interior of the house, but helping to form a
summer workshop for Jacques Penhoel, who was
a basket-maker.

It was in the interior arrangements of her
house that the foreign origin of its mistress
revealed itself. Jeanne Penhoel, formerly Veuve
Lebeau of Paris, had not introduced the startling
innovation of boards for the flooring of the cottage,
but she had gone to the extent of tiles,
in a land of earthen floors. Those tiles were of
the reddest and the smoothest ; they were likewise
kept in a state of mirror-like brightness.
White curtains bordered with red adorned the
casements, and in the furniture of the three
good-sized rooms there was a considerable
departure from the established order of things.
Neither pigs nor poultry ever invaded the
kitchen. The picturesque green and yellow
pottery of the country abounded, producing

bits of colour,' not much talked about in
Jeanne's time, and the perishing boasted many
an article of foreign origin and use. The walls,
though only washed with colour, displayed a
few good prints instead of the flaming monstrosities,
then, and now, accounted art treasures
by the peasants of Brittany. Box-beds, fitted
into recesses in the walls, with perforated sliding
doors, such as may still be seen of a ruder
form in Scotland, and chests of carved wood,
household coffers for the goods of dead-antigone
generations, occupied the invariable places.
But these were only traditions, monumental
remains, kept  as funereal urns may hereafter
be kept upon the mantelpieces or in the cupboards
of our own posterity, if the cremationists
get their way  as inconvenient, but irremovable
memorials.

The most foreign-looking piece of furniture
was a combination of glazed bookcase
and chest of drawers in real Honduras mahogany.
This occupied a place of honour

in the living-room  that is to say, the kitchen.
Jeanne Penhoel was frankly proud of her
bibliotheca,' which, with all the other exotic
articles in the house, was the gift of Madame
Vivian. As a receptacle for books the ' beau
meuble,' as its owner fondly designated it, was
in but moderate request. The Penhoel library
was a small one, and oddly composed ; for of
the books rigidly locked up behind the shining
glass doors, one half were devotional, and the
other half theatrical. Librettos of once popular
operas, programmes of concerts whose echoes
had long since died out of the air, collections of
opinions of the press ' upon the performances
of artists whose very names were forgotten,
records of the triumphs of ' Divas ' and the
discovery of tenors whose ' golden-throated '
glory was remembered no more ; such and suchlike
were the unaccountable contents of a portion
of Jeanne Penhoel's bookshelves. One entire
shelf was assigned to a collection of expensive
but mutilated toys, and a second to artificial

wreaths and dried bouquets. The wreaths
hung at the back of the shelf on nails concealed
by bows of ribbon, the bouquets were placed
in vases and glasses in the front of the upper
shelves. These decorative objects where regarded
with much admiration by the neighbours.

One of the rooms was used as a store for
the materials of Penhoel's handicraft.

On this bright summer's day the basket-maker
was busy with his work in the front of the house ;
his bench was set in the shade ; on a rough
table by its . side lay his simple tools, and a
bundle of osiers prepared for use. The house-door
was open. The front casement was
hooked back, and a birdcage hung in the free
air. The scene was a peaceful and happy one,
and Jacques Penhoel presented a pleasant image
of cheerful industry. He was a handsome man
of barely middle age, with a grave dark face,
and a large, well-built, seemingly powerful
frame. Nevertheless, he was a cripple, and a

pair of crutches was placed within his reach in
the angle of the doorway.

Jacques Penhoel had formerly been a sailor.
The dexterity with his hands that he had
acquired in his seafaring life had helped him
to a new industry when he was terribly injured
by an accident, shortly after his marriage with
the comely widow Lebeau.

It was noon ; the Angelus rang out from
the old church in the village. Jacques Penhoel
put down the half-made basket, removed his
broad-leaved hat, and reverently repeated the
evangelical salutation. He then got upon
his feet with difficulty, and by the aid of his
crutches entered the house.

Babette should have been back by this
time,' said Penhoel to himself, as he renewed
the fire in the stove and made a few preparations
for the meal that ought to have been in
readiness by noon.

She is gossiping above there, no doubt.

VOL. II. p

Nothing ever goes quite right when Jeanne is
not here. Does it, Mistigris ? '

He addressed this question to a handsome
grey cat who had followed him into the house,
and was keenly alive to Babette's punctuality.


Somebody's coming ; but the other way.'
Footsteps had caught Penhoel's quick ear, and
he limped back to the open door. The young
man whom Mavis had seen in the pass confronted
him at a few yards' distance, and,
without any form of greeting, demanded
roughly : 

Where is my mother ? '

'You here, Jean? Where have you come
from ? '

What affair is that of yours ? I'm here.
That ought to satisfy you ; you are so glad to
see me, you know. Where is my mother, I
ask you again ? '

Will you not come in ? '

Penhoel, whose face betrayed the trouble

he felt, moved out of the doorway to let the
young man pass.

Yes, I will come in.'

He entered the house, contriving to convey
aggression and insult to the owner of it, by both
look and gesture. A glance showed him that
the person he sought was not there, and that
Penhoel was alone. He flung himself into a
chair, and repeated his question.

Your mother is up at the chateau,' said
Penhoel, mildly. ' There is sickness there. She
has been away from home for some days.'

I must see her. I will go there, when I
have had something to eat. Does no one here
dine, because my mother has turned servant
again ? '

Babette will be in presently, and she will
get dinner for you. But  I am forced to
remind you that Madame has forbidden you the
chateau.'

The young man answered by an insolent:*
laugh.

p 2

Let my mother come out of it then ; for I
will see her, I swear.'

Here comes Babette,' said Penhoel, as a
stmdy young woman, carrying a heavily laden
basket with as much ease as if she had been a
mountain pony, appeared at the threshold.

Babette, my girl, make us a good dinner ;
Jean has arrived.'

With a look of anything but welcome on
her broad ugly face, the woman busied herself
with her cooking. Penhoel limped out to his
former place, where he sat dejectedly, making
no attempt to talk to the new-comer.

The latter lounged about the room, kicking
the chairs, and swearing at the delay of the
meal. His insolence elicited no remark from
either of the persons to whom it was addressed,
and it was plainly a cover for some uncertainty
or uneasiness of his own. The blustering of the
bully was overdone. At length a good cabbage-soup
was set smoking upon the table, which had
been decently laid, and the two men sat down

to eat together, but with the same mutual
avoidance. The new-comer ate greedily and
coarsely, and drank largely of the strong cider
for which he called, though grumbling at its
quality. Penhoel's manner was that of a man
enduring the inevitable, and waiting for a
revelation of evil to come. At the conclusion
of the meal, Penhoel still keeping silence, the
young man rose and repeated his resolution to
go to the chateau.

You had better not, Jean. I say it for
yourself, not for us. You will be turned from
the door. The last time you were told that it
would be the last, and you know Madame is
one who keeps her word.'

I know more than that about Madame.'


The young man laughed, and showed his
white teeth in a singularly unpleasant manner.

I might have a word to say to Mademoiselle
that would keep the door open a bit longer
for me. What ! The rich woman up there,

and my fool of a mother, thought they had got
rid of me, did they ? '

You are absurd,' said Penhoel, with a
glance at the young man which had more grief
than anger in it. He was thinking of the
mother. ' You cannot do any injury to either
Madame or Mademoiselle ; they do not occupy
themselves with you ; it is an easy thing for
gentlefolk to rid themselves of the importunate.
Think of it, my poor Jean ; a word to the
commissary and where would you be ? '

The fury with which the young man had
listened to the first words of the speaker abated
suddenly as the last were uttered. The colour
in his florid face faded, the craven in him succeeded
to the bully. 'The commissary.' This
was a word to conjure with. The dread of ' an
officer ' was as strong in this ruffian as in any
of Shakespeare's poor rogues.

What an old owl you are, stepfather ! ' he
said jeeringly. ' You needn't take me so
solemnly. Who's going to do them any harm

up there, with their big house and their pots
of money ? Do you and they let a poor devil
live, and not turn my mother against me, and
the " eat civil " of Madame may regularity
itself for me.'

He was standing in front of the house now,
and this dialogue had passed out of hearing by
Babette.

Penhoel was evidently surprised at the effect
of his own words, and this sudden change of
mood.

I have nothing to do with it,' he said, ' as
you know well. If I gain my own living, disabled
as I am, it is because Madame has given
us the house ; but I do no more  neither
hinder you nor help you, my poor Jean.'

Here the inflection of pity in Penhoel's voice
made the young man grind his teeth with
wrath, so simple and sincere was it.

'It is your mother whom you have despoiled,
it is not me, and she has sworn to take no more
money from Madame to be put to such uses.

You come for money, I suppose, and have lost
what work you had. Well ; you know how it
was the last time. There was little then; there
is less now. This will finish ill, Jean, this will
finish ill.'

He spoke without passion or even reproach ;
but only with the hopeless weariness of long
striving with a reprobate.

She will have to go back of her oath, then ;
unless you want me at home, to be the spoiled
child of the house. Hein! how would you like
that ? I am not going to starve, I promise you,
and I am not going to lead the dog's life of dock
work at Lorient any longer. So, whether it
pleases Madame or does not please her, I am
going to see my mother at the chateau. She
can come out to me if her generous patroness
forbids the door to her son. '' A tanto," stepfather
; I'm coming back to sleep. Hein ! here
comes my mother 1 ' he added, as Jeanne
Penhoel, breathless with haste and apprehension,
approached the house from the clifi*side.

She hurried up to the front of the house,
and exclaimed, with a quick glance at her husband:


What brings you here, Jean ? Is there
any new misfortune ? '

There's a tender mother ! Am I not to
have an embrace and the maternal blessing?
No ! Very well then, I can do without them.
You arrive in time, my very loving mother ; I
was just about to visit you at the chateau.'

Is there any new misfortune ? '

Well  perhaps  a little affair. There was
a " rixe '' below there, and some of us were
rather too ready with our knives. Peste !
Where's the use of this  ' with a sudden change
to ferocity. ' What do you care, or I ? I have
escaped with my skin, but no more, and here I
am. The less delay I make about quitting the
country the better; the sooner you give me
the means of going the better. Yes, yes ; you
need not keep looking at your man there, to
see whether you are to believe me or not. It

is quite true what I tell you. I'm not so fond
of this hole of a place, and the black looks of
yourself and your cripple, as to trouble it of
my own free choice. It's a question of money ;
to take or to leave. Here I stay until you find
me the means of placing myself again, and in
safety ; unless my stepfather thrusts me out by
the strength of his manly arm, or my tender
mother denounces me to the police.'

The mother and son stood facing each otherwhile
Jean Lebeau uttered these words, with
every aggravation of insolent tone and gesture
that could be added to their cynical brutality.

He now lighted a pipe leisurely, and, leaning
against the wall with his hands in his
pockets, waited for his mother's reply.

'I believe your story,' she said at length.
We had nothing else to expect. If the police
want you, it is here they will look for you.
You cannot stay here.'

Give me money, then, and let me go.'

Where will you go . What will you do?*

That is my affair. T have a comrade who
can put me in the way of doing something ; he
has a share in a boat trading with England.
Give me money, I say, and I will be off as soon
as you like.'

Come into the house with me.'

She led the way, and Jean, with an exultant
grin, followed her. Penhoel resumed his work.
Babette was busy in the ' basse-cour ' ; the
mother and son were alone. Jeanne approached
the book-case, which was the pride of her
housewifely heart, and drew from her pocket a
bright key. The eyes of her son glistened.
He had never known where she kept her
money ; if he had had any notion it was in so
easily accessible a place, he might have helped
himself on former occasions.

Jean,' said his mother, ' when you went
away the last time, taking with you money
which my good mistress had given me, to rid
me of you and save me from shame, I told you
that you should never touch money of hers

again. I meant it then, and I mean it now
What I possess I will give you ; but you maybe
sure, as sure as you are of death, that it is the
last you will ever touch. You will have left
me nothing then, and it is better so. I shall be
more at rest when nothing is possible for me todo,
no matter what comes. I say nothing to
you ; it is all in vain. You must go your own
way, and come to your own fate. It takes a
long time to convince a mother of such a thing
as that ; but I am convinced. I will give you
all I have '  here she unlocked the book-case
' only, for your own sake, remember that there
will be no more.'

She, too, spoke without heat or anger ; she,
too, seemed hopelessly weary ; her glance
hardly rested on him.

That's enough,' he said impatiently ; ' I
don't care for sermons ; but I don't run my
head against stone walls either. Give me the
money.'

She put her hand upon the shelf on which the

broken toys were displayed, and took down
from behind the medley a ' tirelire,' a little
common money-box. Her son was much surprised
; but after all, he thought, it was not
such a bad idea to keep money in so obtrusively
unsafe a place. He would have looked for it
in the rafters of the roof, or under the tiles of
the flooring.

Jeanne turned out the contents of the box
upon a table, and reckoned them. Twenty
golden louis. She pushed them towards her
son's outstretched hand. He clutched them
eagerly.

Yes,' she said, as if to herself, ' there is
nothing left now. There will be no blame tous
whatever may come, and they will give us our
grave.'

No fear,' said her son, with a coarse laugh ;
you and your cripple will have Christian burial
all right, and my father's son will console himself
with the shiners. Adieu, tenderest of
parents.'

With this he walked out of the house, passed
before Penhoel's bench without a word, and
took the upper path in the direction of the
village.

Jeanne stood where he had left her for a
few moments. A slow, cold shudder passed
over her.

Men Dieu,' she muttered, ' it might have
been his father. The same face, the same voice,
the same cruel, hard, bad heart. Two such
men in the lot of one woman ! It is too much ! '

The husband and wife had nothing consoling
to say to each other. The young man
was the curse of their otherwise happy lives 
a hopeless, irretrievable, ungrateful scoundrel.
The resolution at which Madame Vivian had
arrived, to do no more for him, had been
formed in the interest of his unfortunate mother.
The generous and grateful woman, whose faithful
friend and servant Jeanne was, knew the
world too well not to be aware that there are
cases in which that hard utterance, 'Va-then tc

faire pendre ailleurs ! ' is obligatory. This was
such a case.

When the sun was going down, Jeanne,
wishing to cross the pass before it grew dark,
left her husband, with many instructions to
Babette for his comfort, and the pleasant
assurance that the patient at the chateau would
not require her attendance for very long.

Poor Jeanne, poor woman ! ' said Penhoel
to himself, after she was gone ; ' hers is a sore
that has no plaster. She often says I make up
for most things that have happened to her in
her life, but I cannot make up for that. The
miserable " garnement " is on the road to the
galleys or the scaffold.'

Jeanne gave Gregoire a brief account of what
had happened, and received his report of things
at the chateau. Mademoiselle Warne was unremitting
in her attention to the patient. She
had hardly taken time for her dinner, and was
in the room now. He had sent Mademoiselle
the English papers to amuse her a little.

Entering the sick-room with a noiseless
tread, Jeanne saw all in order : the patient as
she had left her, the screen on the off side of
the bed, shading the light which was placed on
a table beyond, with an easy-chair for the
watcher by its side. In the room, save for the
slight murmur of the patient as she turned
restlessly on the pillow, all was still. Jeanne
passed by the foot of the bed to the other side
of the screen, and there lay Miss Warne upon
the floor  insensible or dead.

Some newspapers were scattered on the
table, and one lay near her on the ground.
Presently, when Miss Warne had been carried
to her room, these papers were collected and
put in their proper place in Madame Vivian's
library. It occurred to no one there to connect
them with the illness of the young English lady.
Her swoon was taken to be the beginning of
a fever like that of her compatriot. It was, how '
ever, a line in one of those newspapers that, like
a stone from the shinar of fate, had struck down

Mavis  a line which recorded among the names
of some officers who had succumbed to tl.e
illness rife in the English camp, but at first
confined to the men only  John Bassett, of the
Eifle Brigade,

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE dame's Parlour-SIDE  SUMMER.

The ' glorious summer ' that was investing
Mavis Wynn's new abode with romantic beauty,
was abroad in her old home also. Looking at
Fielddower Farm on the day when this story
returns for a while to Mr. Bassett, it was hard
to realise that anywhere under the golden sunshine,
strife, bloodshed, and deliberate destruction
were being systematically carried on with
the sanction of great names and high-sounding
principles. The spirit of peace seemed to
possess the tranquil English scene ; the genius
of home to be present in it. The river ran so
low in the hot weather that the boat could no
longer be pushed into the water, or pulled upon
the bank, by a girls hands ; the grass-fields
were browning, the rees were laden with

leaves, the hedgerows were thick set with wildflowers,
and the prim flower-beds on the Dame's
Parlour-side were bedecked with glowing tints
and exquisite forms. The niusic of the time
was in the air ; from the song of birds to the
busy hum of bees at their quest among the
flower-beds. Mr. Bassett, sitting by the open
casement of the Dame's Parlour, loved to hear
the cawing of the Bassett rooks as they flew to
and from his own woods, and to watch the
swallows wheeling over the surface of the
river. He came to love that quiet little stream
very much. It was the same that watered his
own grounds ; but from the house on the hill it
was not visible. Its inner bank soon replaced
the terrace walk on which he had been wont to
pass many meditative hours. The gentle murmuring
lapse of the water, the wide-spreading
fields opposite, with their slight upward slope,
the dark border of pine trees beyond, each one
of them a familiar friend  all had a charm
for the Squire. That charm was not strong

Q 2

enough to make him forget his garden and his
shrubberies, but it rendered contentment, which
he would in any case have cultivated as a moral
duty, easier to him. Perhaps it i paradoxical
to say of the Squire that he was essentially a
man of habit, and yet that he sat loosely to external
things ; but so it was. The cheerfulness
with which he accepted the changed conditions
of his life was as genuine as its expression in
his letters to his son.

Could Mavis Wynn, thinking of the home
that had been hers for so short a time, but
which was glorified in her remembrance by the
dawn of her love, and the earth and stones of
it consecrated by the presence of her lover,
have had a vision of Fieldflower Farm just
about the time when she arrived at the Cheau
de la Dame Blanche, great would have been
her amazement. The installation of the Squire
had been rapidly effected, and he had early
adopted the river-side walk, the swan settlement,
the summer-house where the boat lay, and

the turret-bower, as favourite resorts Jack
and Jill received their daily dole of bread
with a monastic regularity. Isaac, with the
sagacity of his tribe, after a leisurely inspection
of the new-comers, had migrated from the
Farm-side to the Dame's Parlour side, and
speedily ingratiated himself with the Squire.
His method was perhaps only what we call instinct,
but it had all the effect of philosophical
research put in action. Mr. Bassett's was a
generous nature, to which spontaneous confidence
never appealed in vain. Isaac, who
had understood Farmer Wynn's ways, and
defended himself against them with great
astuteness, took the Squire's measure readily,
and appealed to him with spontaneous confidence.


'The beautiful, black-robed, topaz-eyed
creature walked in and took up a position on
the arm of my chair,' said the Squire, on a later
occasion, ' as if not the slightest doubt of his
being welcome could possibly exist. Yet there

was no impudence about him ; it was pure,
noble confidence, like that of a child who does
not know such a thing as a hard word or a
blow is possible.'

The Squire, regarding Isaac with great
pride, as the big black beauty lay across his
lap with his shining head tucked into the
breast of his master's wadded dressing gown,
addressed these remarks to a person who happened
to know something of the previous
history of this child of nature. His auditor
had his own reasons for disputing Mr. Bassett's
theory.

Not a bit of it,' was his comment, ' Isaac
is much sharper than you take him for. He's
had more kicks than kickshaws in his time ;
but like all cats, he can read the human countenance,
and having read yours, he very
naturally came home to you. It's more complicated,
you see, but it's also cleverer.'

Mavis had timidly endeavoured to propitiate
Mr. Eeckitts in Isaac's favour ; but Eeckitts,

although a good sort of man, had not the fine
instincts indispensable to a sympathetic comprehension
of animals. Isaac might be well
fed, comfortably housed, and not unkindly
treated, but he would be ' incompris.' There
would be nobody to talk to him, to indulge his
ever-active curiosity about the household proceedings,
to interpret the movements of his ears
and the wags of his tail, to know that he liked
to drink water out of a certain glass sugar-basin,
or to remember that he delighted in the scent
of flowers, and required his milk warm with ti
lump of sugar in it after the ' turn ' of the year.
In the shock, grief, and apprehension of her
own uprooting. Mavis had suffered many a pang
on Isaac's account. If only she could now have
known how well it was with him ! Finding the
intelligence of the Squire equal to his good-will,
the cat had gradually trained the man to his
own harmless, happy ways, and admitted him
to full companionship.

The Squire's one difficulty had been Trotty

Neck. Jack's dog was a sacred animal. How
would he be disposed towards Isaac ? Would
he too be touched by the fearless confidence of
the cat ? When Trotty Veck returned from a
constitutional into the village in company with
Miss Nestle, and, coming into the Dame's
Parlour, found Isaac there in occupation of a
big footstool, the Squire observed his conduct
with much interest. It was perfectly friendly ;
he sniffed at Isaac for a moment ; this attention
was acknowledged by a yawn and
a stretch, expressive of patronage as well
as leisurely composure on the part of the
cat. Presently Trotty lay down amicably by
the side of the footstool, and they had a
good long sleep together, equivalent to the
drink ' which seals the bond of certain human
amities.

The Squire was delighted ; his darling boy's
darling dog had fully justified Jack's good
opinion of him. To receive after this fashion
a stranger, an ' alien in blood, race, and religion

' (for Isaac could know nothing of
Trotty's God Almighty  who was Jack), was
really fine. Mr. Bassett told Miss Nestle about
it with a kind of grandfather pride ; but
neither was aware that in reality Trotty Neck
and Isaac were old friends, merely renewing an
interrupted intercourse. The two were close
allies thenceforward, and no doubt discussed
the changes that had taken place in their respective
circles. They had many tastes in common,
although Isaac could not make out why
Trotty wanted go on long walks, and Trotty
wondered why Isaac never proposed a bath ora
boating excursion. They were, besides, united
by the strong bonds of a common aversion. It
would be difficult to say whether Trotty or
Isaac detested Miss Nestle's parrot Belshazzar
most cordially. Any slight breach between
the two  mounting of the feather of friendship
did occasionally arise on nice questions of tit-bits
 would be instantly healed by the provocative
voice of that detestable bird cling ' Isaac,

Isaac,' or ' Trotty, Trotty Veck, I say with a
peculiar horny, rattle scornfulness in its utterance,
that made the dog howl and the cat spit
with rage. They would sit side by side and
gaze distressfully at the Squire while this aggression
was being perpetrated by Belshazzar, convincingly
conveying a sentiment identical with
that which Mr. Thackeray put into the mouth
of the royal sturgeon, when it was intruded
upon by Mr. Auckland's porpoise : 

From the bottom at once of my heart and my pond,
I wish the porpoise was dead.'

Mr. Bassett had no horses at Fieldflower
Farm. It was part of his contract with Eeckitts
that the carrying business of the small household
should be done by the farmer, and that
the Squire should have the use of the round
car and the services of Eeuben when required.
Mr. Lansdell had proposed to purchase the
Squire's horses and carriages ; but this offer had
been declined. The horses had been sold at

Chester, with the brougham and pony-carriage.
The Squire retained Jack's dog-cart, and had
consented that it should still stand in the big
coach-house at Bassett. When his son came
home he would find his favourite vehicle, and
a good horse in Eeckitts's stable for his use. The
Squire never wanted to go beyond walking
distance, unless it might be to the railway
station, and he probably should not do even so
much until he went to meet Jack. That
moment was always in his thoughts ; that event
formed the horizon of his hopes ; that desire
was the burthen of his prayers, ' uttered or
unexprest.' The Squire was a man much given
to prayer of both kinds.

Mr. Lansdell's parting injunction to Mr.
Dexter was general in one sense, but particular
in another. It was that in every way Mr.
Bassett should be induced to maintain his
interest in Bassett. His eccentric tenant had
not contented himself, as the Squire soon found,
with enjoining this upon Mr. Dexter ; he had

sent instructions to all the heads of departments
whom he had retained. The steward was to
consult Mr. Bassett about things in general ;
the gardener was to observe the methods pursued
under the old regime ; supplies of fruit and
flowers were to be despatched to the farm with
unfailing regularity. into persons to whom the
Squire had been in the habit of affording assistance
were to suffer, because the house on the
hill had passed into the hands of a man of wandering
ways and cosmopolitan tastes, who liked
to have a country place ' to run down to whenever
he felt inclined,' but had no notion when
the fancy might take him, and no intention of
being bothered about the place until it did.
Mr. Dexter was not slow to point out to Mr.
Bassett, that although it was a singular instance
of good fortune that such an accommodating
tenant should have come in his way, the advantages
were mutual. Mr. Lansdell could not
have a better, guarantee for the care of his
interests than the continued influence of the

Squire over the persons in the employment of
the new and absent master.

As for the pain of the situation, it was only
a choice between two kinds : that of getting
used to Bassett, no longer his own home ; or that
of never seeing the place at all. The first of
these two kinds of pain would certainly be the
sooner surmounted, especially as the Squire
would have no strange faces to encounter.
Mr. Dexter at the time, and Jack Bassett when
he came to know it later, felt a more cruel
concern for the Squire's position than there
was any need for. He was a man about whom
those who cared for him troubled themselves
beyond the common, because of the gentleness
of his unworldly nature, and again, because his
transplantation was a difficult thing to realise.
Nevertheless it took place easily, because the
stuff in his thoughts ' was more important.
He now knew the worst that could happen
to him in money matters. That worst was
better than he could have anticipated when

the consequences of the legal decision had
been made plain, by the full measure of his
exceptional tenant at Bassett. In his new
home  new, but not strange  he would await,
with all the patience that the Divine grace
might grant to him, and so much pursuit of
his accustomed studies as he could school his
mind to, the return of his son ; to be then, as
always, the motive and the meaning of his life,
now a man, a soldier, widely different from the
child, the boy, the youth, but as infinitely
dear.

The Dame's Parlour-side was transformed,
under the orders and the eye of Miss Nestle,
into a residence, which, although she privately
disparaged it as a ' nutshell,' and a ' poor place
for the Squire,' had a certain charm for a man
of his quiet tastes and ways. The best portions
of the antique furniture were retained, and did
not blend ill with the tidings that were brought
from Bassett. The simple furniture of Jack's
oven room was transferred in its completeness.

and his quarters were arranged as though the
morrow were to see his arrival. The Squire's
books found lodging on shelves put up by the
village carpenter on every bit of tapestried
wall ; his big writing-table was set facing the
needlework Nativity, and the deep window seat
boxes accommodated his maps and manuscripts
conveniently enough.

The old oak cabinet in which Mavis had
concealed her treasure was admitted even by
bliss Nestle to be good enough for the Squire ;
but she turned out the spinning-wheel as ' rubbish.'
The winged hour-glass was permitted
to hold its place undisturbed in the niche over
the door, after its wings had been subjected to
the first thorough dusting they had received for
half a century. A narrow door, covered with
tapestry, led from the Dame's Parlour into the
adjoining room, where a high carved buffet of
antique form, and an oak table on trestles,
remained to indicate that in former days it
had served the purpose to which the Squire

now put it This dining-room was panelled in
leak on two sides, on the third was the long
casement, in the centre of the fourth was the
door opening on the corridor ; on either side
of it deep shelved roomy presses reached from
wall to ceiling. Great was the consolation that
the Squire derived from those presses. To the
shrunken dimensions of his own kingdom he
was indifferent, but his heart sank when he
thought of Miss Nestle severed from the
Museum. Here was a not too despicable substitute.
With such powers of packing as she
possessed, a fairly proportionate quantity of
her beloved ' stores ' might be transferred to
Fieldflower Farm.

Then,' said the Squire to himself, ' with
me, a miniature museum, Belshazzar, a couple
of women to keep up to their work, and subsidies
for Jack to look after, the dear old
woman will soon recover her spirits.'

The Squire's anticipations proved correct;
but, indeed. Miss Nestle's conduct had been

from the first admirable. The attitude of
reserve that she had adopted towards Mrs.
Wynn and Mavis she had rigidly preserved
towards everybody, the Squire included, after
the communication of the disaster which was
made to her by the Squire himself.

It's the law that has done it, sir,' she said,
after she had heard him to the end in silence,
but with an occasional nervous start.

Yes, I have told you the law was against
me.'

Then God forgive the law,' ejaculated
Miss Nestle, so plainly in the spirit of Queen
Elizabeth's famous words to Lady Nottingham,
that the Squire smiled to find his expectation
exactly realised. From that day he acquired a
fresh claim to the zeal and fidelity of Miss
Xestle ; he was a victim of injustice. She
asked no questions concerning the ' interloper '
who, favoured by the misdeeds of the law,
was to fill the Squire's place ; lie merely
observed that nothing should ever make her

VOL. II. R

believe that anybody but a Bassett child have
any right to Hve at Bassett. She made no
comment upon Mr. Lansdell's accommodating
readiness to leave persons and things in their
places ; she maintained rigid composure under
all the trying circumstances of the ' flitting ' ;
she presented a deceitful appearance of cheeriness,
combined with added scrupulosity of
respect in her demeanour towards the Squire
indeed, she made him uncomfortable by her
unusual acquiescence. On one point only had
she 'turned rusty,' as Jack would have expressed
it. It was in this wise : 

On a lovely day in June, when the Squire,
attended by Trotty Veck, was reading a newspaper
in the river-side arbour. Miss Nestle was
interrupted in the task of cataloguing the
contents of the museum in miniature by the
arrival of the second gardener from Bassett.
The man brought a superb bunch of the
Squire's favourite cabbage-roses, and desired to
speak with Miss Nestle.

He had been sent to tell her that the housekeeper
from London had arrived at Bassett.
and that she had Mr. Lansdell's authority for
asking Miss Nestle to do her the favour of
coming to see her when she could make it
convenient. The message was carefully
worded and respectfully transmitted, but it
overthrew Miss Nestle's composure. Across
the broad disk of her face, angry colour flew ;
she had to hold back her answer for full two
minutes, or risk the not keeping herself in her
place, by letting Griffith Jones detect her feelings.
Griffith was a jovial person, with a
wholesome scent of horticulture about him ; he
did not mind waiting the two minutes, but he
noted Miss Nestle's colour, and surmised that
some one had been catching it.'

I am obliged to the new person's housekeeper,'
said Miss Nestle at length, ' but you
can say that I have no time for visiting.'

Griffith Jones was disconcerted.

She  she gave me the message herself,'

B 2

he sai'-l, ' at the terrace door. She's a lady,
you know.'

Oh, indeed ! Lady-housekeepers have
come up since my time. I hope you may all
like the change. Not that it has anything todo
with you, of course, or that it is any business
of mine. I dare say it is all very well
for new persons. So good morning, Griffith
Jones.'

Good morning, ma'am.'

Miss Nestle went back to her lists and her
labels. The angry red was slow of fading
from her face ; her dexterous fingers trembled.
She did not mention this incident to the Squire,
or to anybody, but the first time Farmer
Receipts got an opportunity of talking to her,
she gave the conversation a turn that excited
certain information for which nothing would
have induced her directly to ask.

Farmer Eeckitts was ' Church.' A pew iu
the parish church had been rented in Mr.
Lansdell's name, so that the ' new person at

Bassett ' was presumably of the same persuasion.
In the sacred edifice, Eeckitts had a good view
of the Bassett housekeeper, and he reported to
Miss Xestle that she was a quiet-seeming hide,
neither old nor young, not to say handsome or
ugly, but sensible-looking, and with a noticing
way about her. Miss Nestle remarked to herself
that she would want that if she was to be
anything of a housekeeper. He could tell that
she was dressed in black, but whether it was
mourning he would not undertake to say.
She looked quite the lady. Miss Nestle observed
that it was well if ' fatalism ' were not
brought in at Bassett by new people dio
knew nothing of the ways of the place, and
observed that they had not yet heard of any
arrival. Farmer Eeckitts could assure her
that none was expected. A lady  he understood
she was the housekeeper's sister  had
come with her in a fly from Chester to Bassett
quite early in the morning, but she had gone
back the same evening. He concluded by

opiaiag that it would be pretty lonely for the
lady-housekeeper ; but the remark failed to
elicit any response from Miss Nestle.

The combination of loftiness and quietude
of mind that was characteristic of Mr. Basse tt
rendered many things easy, because unimportant
to him, which would have been trying
to a less happily endowed nature. Miss Nestle
was as right as she usually was where the
Squire was concerned, when she said (to herself)
that having to say ' no,' where he had
always said ' yes,' would come hardest to him.
No one more correctly estimated the duty, or
more fully appreciated the luxury of giving,
than did this unostentatious gentleman.

Again, Miss Nestle said in her thoughts,
It's the law's doing, and the poor have got to
suffer by it. God forgive the law ! '

On a Sunday morning late in June, Mr.
Bassett  being on his way to the little Catholic
church, which he would have found inconveniently
far off had he not struck into the

path through his own woods, at the spot wher e
Jack and Mavis first saw each other  met a
lady. She advanced towards him under the
leafy arcade, and the Squire perceived that she
was a stranger. She was plainly dressed in
black, and there was nothing remarkable about
her face, except that it was intelligent and pale.
The Squire raised his hat, and the lady acknowledged
the courtesy with a bow, as they passed
each other.

One of the new people,' said the Squire to
himself, and thought no more about this casual
meeting. But the lady walked on with a hurried
step, and it was some minutes before the
colour that had faded at sight of him returned.

Mr. Bassett mentioned to Miss Nestle that
he had seen a strange lady in the beechwood
walk, and that he presumed, as she was not
going in the direction of the church, she was
one of the new residents at Bassett. Miss
Nestle received this communication in her dry-est
manner. She did not correct his impressions

by her more accurate knowledge, and
privately ' hoped ' that the ' lady,' who, thanks
to the law, occupied an usurped position at
Bassett, would at least have the decency to
keep her own place to the extent of not intruding
on the Squire,

Resolutely as she hid her discomfiture,
things were going hard with Miss Nestle. She
had no private cares or personal interests of
any kind ; the first serious trouble that had
assailed her for many years was composed of
the uneasiness with which Jack's acquaintance
with Mavis Wynn had inspired her, and the
hard necessity of seeing her idol depart to
share the inevitable hardships and dangers of
the war. The first of these grievances had
been disposed of by the departure of the
farmer's family ' for good ' ; the second she
must just bear with ; but then came the astounding
removal from Bassett, and the necessity
of contemplating her beloved master in
the light of a despoiled, injured, and unresisting

victim. She hated the idea of his
being shut out from the place that he loved,
from the woods, the gardens, the terrace, and
the rooms ; but she hated even more the
notion of his visiting all these by the courtesy
of that hateful ' new person at Bassett,' vhom
she regarded as an accomplice of the law.

Time passed, and although the Squire had
visited the Bassett woods and gardens more
than once, he had said nothing of any second
meeting with the obnoxious lady-housekeeper.
He had received some friendly visits, including
one from the new curate in charge. Mr. Gale
recommended himself to Mr. Bassett by his
nice discernment of the antiquarian merits of
the Dame's Parlour-side, and his appreciation
of the peaceful landscape. The county families
were for the most part in town, either for the
whole season, or a bit of it, according to custom ;
but Sir Henry Trescoe, being at his country
place for a few days, came over to visit the
Squire immediately, and by so doing helped to

reconcile Miss Nestle to human nature. In a
world  she argued with herself  ruled by anything
so monstrous as a law which could put
new people in the place of Asserts at Bassett,
anything might be looked for ; even persons
capable of siding with the law, and holding
Mr. Bassett of less importance at Fieldflower
Farm than under his ancestral roof.

The Squire was out of doors when Sir
Henry Trescoe reached the farm, and was conducted
by Eeuben to the river-side arbour.
There he found his old friend, with Trotty Neck
at his feet, Isaac fast asleep on the green table
close to his elbow, and Balthazar Grecian's
Homme Universel ' in his hand. He rose to
receive the visitor with alacrity, and as Sir
Henry preferred to remain in the air, the Squire
proposed that they should walk along the riverbank.
The picturesque old building was new
to Sir Henry, and he examined it with interest.
The conversation soon turned, of course, on
Jack. Sir Henry told Mr. Bassett that he was

ordered by his daughters Jane and Caroline
to bring them full particulars of what Jack
wrote to his father.

Nothing loth, the Squire quoted Jack's
cheery, gay-hearted letters, in which the best
was made of everything, and the blunders which
shortly assumed such gigantic dimensions, and
led to such terrible loss and suffering, were
barely admitted. Everything was 'couleur de
rose ' with the ardent young soldier. Jack declared
that he was ' learning his trade '  as Mr.
Dexter called the acquisition of military science
making friends among his brother officers, and
in all respects doing well. The ' points noirs '
were the terrible sickness among the men, and
the irregularity of the postal service. Everybody
felt the hardship inflicted by the unpardonable
neglect and mismanagement in the latter
department. Nothing could be more calculated
to produce disheartened and discontent.

Jack is very strong on this point,' said the
Squire ; ' and it is indeed a cruel hardship. His

letters have reached me all right, so far as I
know, but he has not had all mine. Here is
his last.' The Squire took the document from
his breast pocket, and turned to the last page.
Our mails are long overdue ; no doubt they
are lying at Gallipoli, a place which people at
home seem to believe is a short walk from
Scutari. I cannot describe my longing for
letters. Of course I know you have written,
and that it is no fault of yours, but pray write
everything all over again. Take it for granted
the letters have been lost  if they ever turn up
they will be doubly welcome  and tell me
every bit of news there is about home, and
everybody  man, woman, child, and dog  in
the place. We know that several bags have
been lost in landing, and we can only guess that
many more of our letters have gone astray on
our way up here, for they are sent on " anyhow "
when sent at all. There is no help for it ;
nobody is responsible. I dwell on this to make
you understand that you must not take it for

granted I know anything you have written tome.'


'A very unpleasant state of affairs for hin,'
said Sir Henry Trescoe, ' and a great nuisance
to you too  especially if you don't like letter-writing,
which is my case.'

I don't dislike writing to Jack ; but it's a
long story to go over again, all about this.'
He indicated his removal to the farm by a
comprehensive sweep of his right arm.

What, did not Jack know you were coming
here when he went out ? '

No, he did not, and my letter of explanation
is one of those he has not got  unless it
has turned up since he wrote.'

Presently the Squire and Sir Henry went
into the house, and Mr. Bassett took his guest
through the quaint old rooms.

Jack gave my girls a charming description
of the Dame's Parlour,' said Sir Henry, ' with
its long casements, its tapestry, and its old
oak.'

Did he ? ' remarked the unsuspecting
Squire ; ' I should have thought he had hardly
ever seen them.'

It was already late in the afternoon when
the Squire and Sir Henry started from the farm
to walk to the village, where Sir Henry's dogcart
was put! up at the ' Bassett Arms.' Business
was pretty brisk at the general shop. In the
postal department, Mr. Williams was sorting
the letters just deposited per post-cart ; on the
other side Mrs. Williams was distributing the
contents of the London parcel to customers who
called in person for their papers ; while the
errand-boy waited for his share before starting
on his round. There was daylight still ; but
Mr. Williams had a flaring light in his dark little
hutch, and to this a lady who had just bought
a newspaper was holding it up, searching
eagerly for something in its columns. The
two gentlemen observed her as they strolled
past the shop on their way to the inn, and Mr.
Bassett recognised her as the stranger he had

met in the beechwood path. No remark was
made ; they went on ; the lady continued her
search. Presently she crushed the newspaper
between her hands, left the shop, and walked
rapidly up the village street in the direction of
Bassett.

The Squire, after a cordial parting with Sir
Henry at the inn door, turned his steps homeward.
On the edge of the village he came up
with the errand-boy from Williams's, and good-naturedly
dispensed him from a part of his walk
by taking the newspapers for the farm. At
this moment a gig passed the Squire at a rattling
pace, and just as he came within sight of the
farm the same vehicle again passed him, going
in the direction of the village. He went in
by the Farm-side entrance, to give Eeckitts his
paper, and passed through to the Dame's
Parlours-side, admitting himself by his key. At
the top of the stairs he made out the figm-e
of Miss Nestle in the dim light ; behind her
he could see through the nearly closed door

of the Dame's Parlour that the room was
lighted.

Is that you, sir? ' asked Miss Nestle.

Her voice gave him a start.

Yes. Is anything the matter ? '

I hope not  I am sure not '  she laid her
hand on his sleeve, trying to detain him for a
moment ; ' but there's a magnetic thing come,
and '

Where is it ? '

In there.'

He went in, and found the message on the
table, where a lighted lamp stood. On the
threshold was Miss Nestle, her eyes upon his
face. He read the hues to himself, passed his
hand over his forehead, read them again, and
said in a thick, uncertain voice, 

But what  what is the statement ? '

Oh, sir,' implored Miss Nestle, coming upto
the table, ' what is it .? For God's sake tell
me.'

'In a minute wait.'

He laid clown the flimsy sheet and snatched
up the parcel of newspapers. He spread the
Times' on the table, and ran down the columns
with eye and finger. Not a sound, not a stir
came from the woman facing him ; she watched
him in an agony of fear. In a minute he found
it  the line that was destined a little later to
strike down the girl whom his son had wooed
and won in that very room  the Hne that recorded,
among the common occurrences of the
time and place, the death of John Bassett of the
Eifle Brigade, at the camp at Scutari.

My God ! '

In a second Miss Nestle had read the
words ; in another she had placed him in his
chair, and turned it to the open window. The
sweet air flowed in softly ; the evening had
come with a young moon and a thousand
perfumes.

Rouse yourself, don't die ! oh, don't die ! '

Nothing else could his faithful servant say.

It was all in a moment, but it was meted

VOL. II. s

with that wonderful measure that sets what we
can suffer apart from time. He looked for a
few seconds as though death had indeed come
and taken him out of the fell grip of intolerable
pain, but presently he started up and cried, 

The message ! the message ! '

Miss Nestle put it into his hand.

Tell me what's in it. The worst is there,'
she said, pointing to the ' Times.'

The message was from that powerful friend
of Mr. Bassett's who had helped in the matter
of Jack's commission, and who now held a
high official position. It was in these words : 

There is good hope that the statement is
unfounded. The death of an artillery officer
of same name is certain ; confusion considered
likely. Depend on immediate inquiry and information.*


CHAPTEE XXII.

THE dame's parlour-side  WINTER.

Jack Bassett had entered upon his career full
of high hope. His resolution was to deserve so
well of his country and ' the Service,' that when
the time should have come for him to make
the avowal of his love, his father should find
cause to regard it as that of a man with a right
to have his judgment respected as well as his
feelings indulged. He had entirely persuaded
himself that the sole motive of his concealment
of the engagement between himself and
Miss Wynn was consideration for the Squire ;
no misgiving or self-reproach on that score
entered into the trouble with which he was
soon assailed. His youth, his perfect health,
his high spirits, the happiness of his successful
love, combined to form a rich endowment for

8 2

the young soldier. Popularity in his corps and
far outside it was soon added. Fo man in the
British army went through the earlier phases
of the campaign in the East with a lighter
heart, or more entirely in the spirit of a vocation,
than did Jack Bassett. He wrote to
Mavis long letters which did credit to his
intelligence, while they breathed the most
devoted love. These letters were despatched
with as much regularity as the deplorable
postal mismanagement would permit, up to a
date beyond the period at which his apprehensions
were aroused by the cessation of letters
from Mavis.

While Jack was smarting under the disappointment
of her silence  for two mails had
been carried up to the camp in the haphazard
fashion described by Mr. Bassett, but had
brought nothing to Jack from Mavis  and at
the time when he ought to have received her
narrative of Farmer Wynn's resolution and its
results, posted at Liverpool, he actually did

learn from his father the astounding facts that
the Wynns had sailed for Melbourne, and that
the Squire had taken up his abode at Field-flower
Farm. The effect of this news upon
Jack would have been bad enough, told as
Mavis told it in her letter  lost with hundreds
of others in ' the Slough of Despond '
but reaching him thus, with hardly a comment
upon that portion which was of vital
importance to him, it was bewildering.

The Squire, considering chiefly how he
might best let Jack down to the knowledge
that the sacrifice demanded by his money
troubles was heavier than his son had at first
understood it to be, treated the matter with
intentional levity and brevity. Being unaware
that Jack had any special acquaintance with
Farmer Wynn and his family, he confined
himself to the bare mention of them, and,
indeed, discharged a thunderbolt at Mavis
Wynn's lover in this wise : 

Wynn had been thinking, for some time

past, of joining a brother of his in Australia,
and cleared out with his wife and daughter
just in time for me. Eeckitts is a very good
sort of man, and the arrangement is in every
respect a successful one. I don't think you
will dislike the farm as a residence ; I like it
much. I believe you know the old rooms ;
they have been made very comfortable by
Miss Nestle, who has taken the changes of all
kinds better than I expected.'

The Squire then dwelt at length upon the
good fortune that had befallen him with regard
to the letting of Bassett, but he returned no
more to the topic of the Wynns.

Mavis had not overrated the effect upon
her lover of her enforced departure for Australia.
It was greater than she had imagined
by the measure of his more accurate knowledge
of what such a voyage implied. His
compassion for Mrs. Wynn was as profound
as Mavis knew it would be.

It was with feelings almost of desperation

that he took in the full meaning of this event,
and realised that there was only too surely no
communication from Mavis. The distance that
divided them, his powerlessness to interfere,
the knowledge that this horrible thing was an
accomplished fact, the sudden conviction that
the concealment of his engagement to Mavis
from his father had been a fatal mistake, disturbed
and tore Jack's mind between them,
driving him nearly wild. He lost sight of
what the actual position of affairs had been,
in the shock of this new development, bitterly
reproached himself for the very thing that had
appeared to be the best at the time, and
declared angrily to himself that if lie had but
trusted the Squire's affection, confessed the
truth, and commended Mavis to his care and
kindness, this catastrophe would have been
averted.

What had he done ? He had left her helpless
friendless, bound by his injunction of
secrecy, and powerless to oppose lier father's

will by convincing him that it would be to his
own interest to leave her in England  an argument
to which he believed that Wynn would
have been amenable. Painted as Jack's state
of mind was while he awaited the long-delayed
communication from Mavis, being unable to
write to her because of his ignorance of the
date of Wynn's departure, or even his exact
destination  for the Squire had vaguely said
'Australia.'  it was much more pitiable as
time wore on, and no word from her reached
him.

How this happened has already been related.
Mavis's letter, posted at Liverpool, had
been lost. The history of her flight, her stay
in London, her journey to Brittany, her first
days at the Chateau de la Dame Blanche, was
lying, all the time that he was longing for a
word from her, in a drawer of her writing-table,
made up into a parcel that also contained
his letters. This parcel was sealed with
Jack's own seal, and on the cover the following

words were written : ' I request that, if I die
in this house, this pocket may be burned unopened.
 M. W.'

A dead blank of hopeless silence, of almost
unbearable suspense, now befell Jack. He
could not resist the conviction that Mavis had
already left England, and that he was doomed
to suffer that suspense for many months. Some
accident had occasioned the loss of her last
letters written before she left England. In
those days the voyage to Australia was a
loathsome undertaking. In a kind of despairing
frenzy he counted off the months that
must elapse before he could hear from his
betrothed. That she was in any way to blame,
never entered his mind for a moment, nor did
it occur to Jack to inflict upon himself the
sentimental miseries of doubt and jealousy.
Of the love and fidelity of Mavis he was as
seriously certain as of his own love and fidelity
that is to say, he accepted them just as he
accepted the fact that he existed. Their separation

had assumed a new and far more painful
character ; that was all. It was as much as
Jack could bear, and the position was not
destined to be alleviated by his father's response
to his eager inquiry about the Wynns,
and his request to be informed of the time of
their departure and of their exact destination.

The Squire answered Jack's question about
the date of Wynn's departure, and added that
he believed the farmer's brother, Lewis Wynn,
was settled in Melbourne, and that Wynn
would land there. He went on to say that, sofar
as he knew, no one at Bassett had heard
from Wynn from Liverpool, and no particulars
of Mrs. Wynn's death, which must have been
rather sudden, were known. Of this event the
Squire wrote, evidently thinking that he had
mentioned it in his former letter. The intelligence
was a fresh shock to Jack. To picture
Mavis, alone with her father in a strange land,
was very grievous, although his notions of
Wynn's treatment of his daughter were vague.

It was well for Jack that in the inter veal
before this meagre reply to his inquiries
reached him the active business of the campaign
had set in, and he was brought face to
face with experiences which took boyishness
out of him for evermore.

In the later days of June the British army
was in Bulgaria, and ' the country round Varna
was one vast camp.' The story of July was
that of sickness, monotony, expectation, and
uncertainty ; bad surroundings amid which to
suffer from heavy care. August was somewhat
relieved by the decrease of sickness, and the
preparations for the departure of the allied
forces. The destination of the troops was kept
secret. On the 14th of September Mr. Eussell
wrote, ' We are an army of occupation at last.
The English and French armies have laid hold
of a material guarantee in the shape of some
score square miles of the soil of the Crimea,
and they are preparing to extend the area of
their rule in their progress towards Sebastopol.'

The war had begun in earnest. On the 19th
the allies got their first sight of the enemy. It
was on this occasion that, as Marshal St,
Arnaud passed the 55th regiment, he exclaimed,
English ! I hope you will fight well to-day ! '
and was answered from the ranks by an Irishman,
' Hope ! Ah, sure, you know we will ! '
Of this first brush with the enemy, the writer
who has come nearest to doing that which he
declares to be impossible, i.e. describing war,
wrote, ' It was admitted that as a military
spectacle, the advance of our troops and the
little affair of artillery, as well as the management
of the cavalry, formed one of the most
picturesque and beautiful that could be imagined.
No pencil could do it justice, for the
painter's skill fails to impart an idea of motion,
and the painter has not yet been born who can
describe with vividness and force, so as to
bring the details before the reader, the events
of even the slightest skirmish.'

This was the prelude to the battle of the

Alma, and the other great events of the first
year of the Crimean war followed in quick
succession.

The winter of that year, charged with
misery to the allied forces at the scene of conflict,
but more especially to the English army,
was also particularly rigorous to us at home.
Dark, dismal, and pitiless were the closing weeks
of 1854 ; pitiless, dismal, and dark were the
opening weeks of 1855. Even those who were
so fortunate as to have none of their dear ones
among the victims, read with equal sympathy
and indignation of the sufferings of the troops,
and the daily accumulating evidence of official
incapacity, with its terrible result in the waste
of life and treasure.

Those were dark days indeed  notwithstanding
the victories of the Alma and oflnker-
mann  that preceded the Christmastide of 1854.

As a matter of fact we were always at war
somewhere. English soldiers were always killing
or being killed, suffering hardship and sickness.

withdrawn from the productive and industrial
pursuits of life, and costing a heavily burthened
country large sums of money at one point or
another of the world's surface. But we did not
think about that. The fighting was in Hindostan
or Afghanistan, in Burma or in China,
and we could go on very comfortably, forgetting
all about it, and repeating on Sundays, with
quiet minds, the collects ordered to be used intime
of peace. The struggle with ' the Colossus
of the North ' was, however, presented to the
imagination of the whole community with vividness
and vitality, which the young people ot
the present day could hardly realise ; while the
gloomy weather seemed to indicate that for once
nature was sympathetic with those unconsidered
trifles called human beings.

Fieldflower Farm did not form a complete
exception to the prevalent mood ; but it afforded
an illustration of that trite saying to which weare
so often forced to turn for consolation, that
few things are so bad but they might be worse

So strongly was this truth impressed upon
Squire Bassett, that when the end of January 
the terrible ' General January ' that was to fight
Czar Nicholas's battles for him  came, he was
ready to acknowledge what it brought to him
as positively good, regarded by the lurid light
of what might have been, and to accept it with
thankfulness.

One of the first explorers of the wonderful
Yellowstone region has told us how he crawled
on hands and knees to the brink of the great
canon, and looked over into its depths ; then
crawled away  he never knew after how short
or long a time  and lay prone, barely alive,
dimly conscious of sublime grandeur and awfulness
existing outside of his senses, and of something
that was himself being too weak to cope
with the idea or endure the sight of them.
Something like that bodily experience we may
suppose to be the mental experience of one who,
having looked into the bottomless gulf of an
irremediable grief, has been plucked away from

the brink of it, co recover calmness and strength
upon the flat common earth.

If we could attain to a true comprehension
of the feelings of one who has escaped an immeasurable,
irremediable calamity, so barely
that its terror and its agony have been revealed
with the completeness said to attend the vision
of the past that flashes upon a man drowning
or falling from a precipice, we should find that
joy is slow of coming to the rescued. The relief
is exhausting, and, like sleep after fierce physical
pain, lethargic.

It was to a glimpse only of the gulf of grief
that the Squire had been condemned. The
supposition of the message proved to be correct,
and his suspense was not of long duration. Mr.
Bassett bore the ordeal with a manly patience
that tried Miss Nestle's nerves almost to 
point, and took the relief when it
came with quiet gratitude. But he aged a good
deal in the time. The summer had passed since
then. News from the seat of war was looked

for in England with ever-growing anxiety and
heart-sickness.

Jack Bassett had been in the battle of the
Alma, among that ' foam of skirmishes ' that
shows so brilliantly in Mr. Eussell's vivid picture
of ' one of the most bloody and determined
struggles in the annals of war,' and he had
escaped unhurt. He was also in the memorable
battle of Inkermann, and on both occasions he
behaved with distinguished gallantry, which
was recognised by the chiefs. After the
second battle Jack found himself promoted by
the terrible ' death vacancies ' to the rank of
captain. Through the thick of the fight he had
come with only a few ' scratches,' as horrid
hurts which make mothers and wives shudder
at the thought of them are called in the
military jargon abhorred of Mr. Dexter. He
was not, however, to escape so easily.

Early in this story it was declared to be of
the humble kind that does not deal with
stricken fields and deeds of high emprise, but

VOL. II. T

only with ' the non-combatants below.* There
is, however, one episode of the great battle of
Inkermann that has to find a place here,
because it was fraught with grave consequences
to Jack Bassett. This episode Mr. Eussell
relates as follows : 

About ten o'clock a body of French infantry
appeared on our right, a joyful sight to
our struggling regiments. The Zouaves came
on at the 'pas de charge. The French artillery
had already begun to play with deadly effect
on the right wing of the Russians. Three
battalions of the Chasseurs orleans rushed by,
the light of battle on their faces. They were
accompanied by a battalion of Chasseurs Indigenes
 the Arab sepoy of Algiers. Their
trumpets sounded above the din of battle, and
when we watched their eager advance right on
the flank of the enemy, we knew the day was
won. Assailed in front by our men, broken in
several places by the impetuosity of our charge,
renewed again and again, attacked by the

French infantry on the right, and by artillery
all along the line, the Russians began to retire,
and at twelve o'clock they were driven pellmell
down the hill towards the valley, where
pursuit would have been madness, as the roads
were all covered by their artillery. They left
mounds of dead behind them.'

Among the officers of the Chasseurs orleans
who rushed by with the light of battle on their
faces, was one, light of tread, bright of visage,
bravest of the brave, a gallant young Frenchman,
with whom John Bassett had formed a
close friendship. On the morning after the
battle the mounds of dead still lay upon the
battle-field, and the piercing wind swept over
the moaning ghastly heap. When the search-parties
were busy at their terrible task of seeking
among the peaceful dead for mutilated
wretches whose wounds where stiffening in the
cold. Jack Bassett learned that Eene de Eastacq
was among the ' missing.'

T 2

The place of the Chasseurs orleans in the
battle was easy to find, and Jack went out with
the search-party. He was heavy-hearted indeed,
for the ambulances had been at work for
hours, and the tale of the wounded was supposed
to be nearly complete. Over the brow
of a hill on the English right the French had
rushed and fallen on the flank of the Russian
column with which our troops were engaged.
On that spot the English, French, and Russian
dead lay together in the 'mounds,' and 'there,
crushed by the weight of a dead Eussian who
had fallen across his legs, and with his face as
close to the shattered skull of a Zouave as though
both were resting on the same pillow, Eene de
Eastacq was found. It was Jack who found
him, pulled away the dead Eussian, lifted his
friend's bare head, its dark curls all stiffened
and crusted with blood (not his own), from its
terrible contact with the dead Zouave, and
believed that he still lived. Jack moistened
his cold cracked lips with brandy, placed him

in a litter, and directed the bearers to start
with their load.

The bearers had gone on a few steps in
advance ; a moan of pain from the wounded
man, produced by the inevitable jerking of the
litter, had borne its testimony to the fact that
there still was life in him. Jack, having lingered
behind to glance over the surrounding
scene in the hope of discerning a medical
uniform, either French or English, was following,
when a burst of smoke arose out of the
valley from the head of the harbour, and a
shell came whizzing overhead, exploding near
the trench in which English soldiers were burying
the Eussian dead.

A splinter from the shell struck Jack in the
right arm, and he fell. The bearers set down
the litter on which Eene de Eastacq lay, and
ran to him, shouting for aid. Some of the
burial party hurried to the spot. The wounded
officer's shattered arm was tied up, and a
second litter was brought. Side by side the

two maimed men were carried off the fatal field
of Inkermann.

The Frenchman was the first to recover
from his wounds, notwithstanding the terrible
night upon the battle-field. In three weeks he
was on his feet, and not much the worse for
what had befallen him ; but when he made
inquiry for his English friend, he learned that
John Bassett had been less fortunate. He had
all but died of loss of blood, for the fragment
of shell that hit him had fearfully lacerated
the forearm, and the makeshift bandage had
but imperfectly checked the bleeding. The
surgeons looked grave when poor Jack came
under their hands, and they looked grave for
many a day after, while he wasted with fever,
raving and muttering in delirium, and when
that left him, lying weak as a child with the
terrible greyness in his pinched face, and the
terrible anxiety in his sunken eyes, that those
who have watched mortal, or well-nigh mortal,
sickness recognise with dread. A comparatively

slight but very painful wound in the neck
added much to his sufferings, and not a little to
his danger, for it kept up the fever, and the
mail that left the Crimea on the 18th of
November took a dubious report of his condition
to England. It also carried a letter for
Mr. Bassett from one of the generals, an old
friend and schoolfellow of the Squire's, in
which a warm eulogium was passed upon the
young officer. This praise of his beloved son,
so kindly meant, hardly affected the Squire at
all when he read the simple soldierly phrases
in which it was conveyed. He laid it by with
a dim consciousness of what its value might be
to him in a dark future near at hand, and once
more disciplined himself for the endurance of
suspense.

Many times during the ensuing weeks death
drew very near to Jack, and for almost all that
time he was too ill to be much affected by
the surroundings that were so dreadful to the
friends of the victims of the war, who read of

them at home in decency and comfort. When
he was questioned afterwards about the miseries
of that experience, Jack never seemed clear
upon the point ; at all events he protested that
the best that was possible had been done for
everybody, and that lots of fellows were much
worse off than he. When he ceased to be in
danger of death, it became evident that his
convalescence must be slow, and that a longtime
must elapse before he would be fit for
service. The siege was dragging its slow
length along ; the terrible weather, an impartial
enemy to all, was warring victoriously against
Eussia and the allies alike ; things were at the
worst and gloomiest, when Jack Bassett was
sent home with a batch of invalids. .After a
voyage in which he suffered so severely that he
escaped with his life almost as narrowly as
after Inkermann, he reached England at the end
of January 1855.

'ifi  % %

A wood fire was burning cheerfully upon

the open hearth in the Dame's Parlour, and the
old room looked bright and comfortable. The
prospect outside was dreary enough ; showers
of rain and sleet swept across the fields, blurring
the view of the leafless woods on the horizon,
and swelling the current of the river, which
was also indistinct in the drizzle.

In a great chair on one side of the hearth,
with a table covered with papers at his side,
and Trotty Veck at his feet, sat Jack Bassett.
Opposite to him, and quietly observant of him,
sat the Squire with a book in his hand. Three
days had passed since Jack's arrival at Field -
flower Farm, and his father was comparatively
used to the change in his looks that had so
shocked him. There was a greater change in
Jack than that wrought by his grim experience,
by the sight of terrible things, by physical
hardship and suffering, or even by the immediate
menace of death, not only on the battlefield,
but during the slow weeks of pain aud
illness that had ensued upon his wounds. All

these things were written in the wasted frame,
the still useless arm, the darkened complexion
which yet showed pallor so plainly, the thinned
hair that had lost its crisp surliness, the lank
brown hands, the unsmiling gravity of the eyes,
formerly so merry, bright, and blue. Something
more than all this ailed the Squire's
son, whom he no longer thought of as ' the
boy.'

The Squire had the strangest feelings about
Jack; feelings which had their origin in his
own imaginative and reflective nature, and in
the seclusion and tranquility of his own life.
A curious shyness and silence came over him
when he looked at the young fellow to whom
a few months had brought actual experience
of the things which he himself had only read
and thought about ; an experience that had
altered him almost out of recognition. The
man of books felt himself weak, ignorant, nowhere,
in comparison with the man of action ;
and although his sympathies were, in the abstract,

as far removed from Jack's profession as
ever, he was full of pride in his gallant son.

To this sentiment Miss Nestle had administered
an early corrective, in her characteristic
way. Nothing could exceed her satisfaction
on learning that Jack was coming home, except
the consternation with which his altered looks
struck her when he arrived.

Not fit for service for a long time,' she
repeated,' after the Squire informed her of the
medical verdict upon Jack ; ' that's a good
hearing, sir, indeed. And I hope the war will
be ovqi", and that all the poor creatures who are
to be killed, what for nobody knows, will be
out of their misery long before Mr. Jack is able
to go back and help to kill them. He's a deal
better at home : and now he has seen what it's
like for himself, I'm sure he'll be sensible. It's
just like his watch. When he was little  don't
you remember, sir ?  he was never done poking
and scraping at the works, to see how it was
put together, until at last the inside came right

out of it. Then he was satisfied, and you had
it mended for him. You couldn't have kept
him at home, sir ; but he's had his fling, and
enough of it too, bless his heart ! with his
poor thin face, and his clothes just hanging
on him.'

From this attitude Miss Nestle was not to
be moved. She applied herself to the care of
the invalid with skill and assiduity all her own;
but there was no hero-worship about her.
She regarded Jack as having been engaged in
the inevitable process of sowing his wild oats,
and paying for it pretty dearly ; that was all.

The weather had been comparatively fine in
the morning, and Jack had walked down to the
village and back. This was quite enough to
fatigue him, and it might have been only the
exertion that made him look so worn and
anxious as he turned over his papers ; but his
father felt vaguely apprehensive that there was
some trouble untold. He recalled the circumstances
that had occurred a year before, and he

wondered whether Jack, in spite of his warnings,
lead kept back any debt that he ought to have
avowed then, and was worried about it now.
It was a proof of the curious change in Jack,
and of his father's acute perception of it, that
the Squire felt as shy of approaching the
probable difficulty as if Jack had been a man
of his own age.

The matter in Jack's thoughts was far
different. The time had come when there
was to be no longer a secret between himself
and his father. He had only put off speaking
to the Squire until to-day, because there had
remained one inquiry for him to make before
he could place the whole story with every
detail before the Squire. That inquiry he had
made at the post-office at Bassett.

Mr. Williams would hardly have made a
difficulty about answering a question put by
the Squire's son, but Jack removed all scruples
from the postmaster's mind by stating when he
asked whether certain letters addressed to Miss

Wynn, post-office, Bassett, and posted in
London, were still in his charge, that he, the
questioner, was the writer of those letters,
Mr. Williams betrayed no surprise, but perfect
readiness to give the required information. In
pursuance of Miss Wynn's instructions, all
letters for her had been forwarded to 108 Cecil
Street, Liverpool. Mr. Williams produced the
book in which he had recorded this address,
and added that the last letter which had arrived
for Miss Wynn had been forwarded several
months previously, but, he believed, after
Farmer Wynn had sailed for Australia.

As he left the general shop, and turned
homewards, leaning heavily on his sticky and
walking with a slow and heavy tread, which
Mavis would not have recognised for his, a lady
passed him on the narrow footway, and looked
at him with undisguised interest. Jack was
too much absorbed in his own thoughts to
notice her His resolution was taken ; he
knew what he had to do.

Father,' said Jack, after a considerable
interval of silence, and pushing away his
papers, ' I have something to tell you. Can
you give me your attention now ? '

There was a sudden brightening all over
the Squire's face, as, laying down his book and
rolling his chair nearer to his son's, he answered
with eagerness, ' I thought you had something
to tell me. Jack. What is it. '

Chapters
of a New Story by Cecil PcJwer, Author
of " Philistia," entitled Babylon,
and Illustrated by P. MacNab.
** Nov ready, the Volume for July to
October 1884, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d.; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Annual. With Stories

by F. W. Robinson, J. Arbuthnot
Wilson, Justin H. McCarthy, B.
Montgomerie Ranking, and others.
Demy 8vo, with Lusts., Is. [Preparing.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

A Ballad History of England. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 2s.
Songs for Sailors. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Post 8vo, illust
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d,
eai h ; or crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. each.

Ready-money Mortlboy.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:

An Impossible Story With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Crown
Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d ; post svo,
illust. boards, 2s ; cloth limp. 2s. 6d.

The Captains' Room, &.c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d ; post
svo, illust. bds, 2s ; cl. limp, 2s.6d.

AM In a Garden Fair. With 6 lists.
by H. Furnish New and Cheaper
Edition. ( r. svo cl. extra, 3. 6d.
Dorothy Forster. New and Cheaper
Edition. With Illustrations by Ch.
Green. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. [Preparing.

The Art of Fiction. Demy 8vo, la.

Betham-Fd./afds (M.), Novels

by. Cicv.n 8vo, cloth extra, 33. Gd.
each. ; post 8vo, illust. bds, 2s. each.
Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin DoBSON. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

Birthday Books: 

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Leteiids. Icy W. J Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Houghton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 6s.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Lusts., small 8vo, cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy Bvo, Illustrated, uniform
in size tor binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1883, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1 884. With 152 Illustrations.
Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Lusts. in
Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1880-54 Complete
in One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. C;oih limp, 63.

Grosvenor Notes, 187.'. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1883, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1384. With 78
Illustrations l3.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 63.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illustrations. Is.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. i23 illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 24a
Lusts. Demy bvo, cloth limp, 33.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings ot the Artists. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy Bvo, 38. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1884. With over 300
Lusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.
Demy 8vo, 33.

Art Handbooks, continued 

The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. With 300 fuU-paga
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 5s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Blake (William): Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. Oblong 4to,

halt-bound boards, 2l3.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.
Oblong 4to, hall-bound, 21s.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo. illustrated bds.,2s.

Savage Life Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; pf St Svo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Brand's Observations on Popular

Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Ongin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 73. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers-luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers  Spanish
AND American Legends.
Vol. ill. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Con ROY.
Vol. V. Stories  Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose: and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Celi ew, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Bret Harte's Works, continued-
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,

2s. : cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, Is.; crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Californian Stories (including The

Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff

Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbooi<of Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Fourth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Comp-ETE English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7S. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SirDavicl),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of *she Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brake, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6 d.

Brilliant-Savarin. Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
PostSvo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Kathleen Mavourneen. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover. Is.
Lindsay's Luck. Fcap. 8vo, picture

over, Is.
Pretty Polly Pemberton. Fcap. Svo,

"picture cover, Is.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hughes. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.

With Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Undertones. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6S.

London Poems. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 6s.

The Book of Form. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
White Rose and Red: A Love Story,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 63.
Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
St. Abe and his Seven Wives: A Tale
of Salt Lake City. With a Frontispiece
by A. B. Houghton. Crown
8yo, cloth extra, 5s.
Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In the press.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by W,
Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.
A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 63.
The Shadow of the Sword : A Romance.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.
A Child of Nature: A Romance. Whh
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
God and the Man : A Romance. With
Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Martyrdom of Madeline: A
Romance. With Frontispiece by A. W,
Cooper. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s.6d.;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Anna Water: A Romance. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The New Abelard: A Romance. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Foxglove Manor: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise : Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy,
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Loveth Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword : Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 32s.

J Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous V.'oo<icuts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 73. 61.

Byron (Lord) :
Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6(1.
Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton.  To theGoldCocst
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. My
Richard F. Burton and Vernkv
Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece
and Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 2l3.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Juliet's Guardian.
Deceivers Ever

Campbell. White and Black:

Travels in the United States. By Sir
George Campbell, M.P, Demy Svo,
cloth extra, 143.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections.
By MoNCURE D. Conway,
M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 63.

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Lite of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post Svo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 248.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Chatto & Jackson, Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatto
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 283.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 2s 61.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 6s. [/ the press,

Cobban.  The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Collins (C. Allston). The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post Svo, illustrated bds.,23.

Collins (Mortimer k Frances),

Novels by :

Sweet and Twenty. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 28.

Frances. Post Svo, i'lust. bds., 23.

Blacksmith and Scholar. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23. ; crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d

The Village Comedy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d.

You Play Me False. Post Svo, illust,
boards, 2s.; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Sweet Anne Page. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Transmigration. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

From Midnight to Midnight. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23. ; crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo
illustrated boards 2s.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by.

Each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ; or crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Antonina. lust, by A. Concave.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

Tne Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

Queen of Hearts Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

My Miscellanies. With Illustrations
by A. CoNCANKN, and a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch, Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G. Dl Maurier and C. S. Rants.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. FiLDES and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies,
The Haunted Hotel, Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves,
Jezebel's Daughter*.
The Black Robe,

Heart and Science: A Story of the
Present Time. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

I Say No," Three Vols., crown 8vo.
31s 6d. lShortl3U

Coleman's Humorous Works:

"Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d,

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Post Svo, Is. ; cl. limp, Is. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Chronology and Devil-Lore. Two
Vols., royal Svo, with 65 Lusts., 268.

Conway's (M. D.) Works, continuedr-
A Necklace of Stories, Illustrated
by W, J. Hennessy. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 63.
The Wandering Jew. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 63.
Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Hours with the Players. With a
Steel Plate Frontispiece. New and
Cheaper Edit., cr. Svo, cloth extract.

Nights at the Play : A View of the
English Stage. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6S.

Leo: A Novel. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d,

Cooper. Heart Salvage, by

Sea and Land. Stories by Mrs.
Cooper (Katharine Saunders).
Three Vols., crown Svo.

Copyright.  A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright In
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-Law, Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall.  Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Creasy.  Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 73. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1S43 ; the Second from 1S44 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Bkckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Cruikshank {G.), continued 
The Life of George Cruikshank. By

Blanchard Iekkold, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations, New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. A few Large Paper copies,
printed on hand-made paper, with
India proofs of the Illustrations, 36s.

Russians. Handbook of heraldry;

with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles. Hearts of Gold: A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daniel.  Merle England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Robt. Cruik-
shank. Crown tvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet. Port Salvation; or,

The Evangelist. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Covenant.  What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Davknant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

One Thousand Medical IVlaxIms.

Crown 8vo, l3. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;

cloth limp, 2s. Cd. [Shortly.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maitre. A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maitre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille. A Castle In Spain.

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Our Lady ol Tears. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Circe's Lovers. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. 1 Nicholas Nickleby
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
mayfair Library.) Post 8vo, cloth
mp, 2s. 6d.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries;

A Dictionary of piracies: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s.6d.; hf.-bound, 93.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fourth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
Tne Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. E. C.
Brewer, LL.D. Crown 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities
and the like. By Wm. A. Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued 

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra. 7s. 6(1.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal, Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 61.

Women of the Day : A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Words. Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot.  The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

hobson (W. T.), Works by :

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s. 6d.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

'coran.  Memories of our

"great Towns ; with Anecdotic gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 123. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with Introductory Essay
by A. Swinburne; Vol.IIL.Trans-
latin? of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Dramatists, The Old, continued-
Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.
Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer.  The Folk-lore of

Plants. By T. F. Thiselton Dyer,
M.A., &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
Evo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems. One Vol,

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Carbury's Poems.

Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Post 8vo, illust. bds.,
2s. ; crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Eggleston. Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 23. ; cr. Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Emanuel.  On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History.Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8v o, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The : A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
Nearly 600 Lusts. Cr. 8vo,cl. ex.,7s.6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by :
Stories from the State Papers.

With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

Eyes, The. How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By

John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. With

37 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth,

lsd

Fairholt.  Tobacco: Its History

and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ases and Countries. By F. W. Faiii-
HOLT, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece
and upwards of lOO Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 63.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.
On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crooks, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. Cd.

Fin-Bee  The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Beg. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;
or. Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23, each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems: Christ's Victorie ia
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. C r. 8 vo, cloth bds.,63.

Fonblanque.  Filthy Lucre : A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, illnstr need boards. 23.

Francisco (R. .), Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 23 each.

Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One

Esther's Glove. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, Is.
A Real Queen. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 33. 6d.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., de my Svo, cl. bds., 73. 6d. each.

Free. Pandurang Harl ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Frisweil. Oneof Two: Novel

By Hair Friswell. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry. Royal Guide to the London
Charities, 1884-5. By Herbert
Fry Showing their Name, Date rf
Foundation, Objects, Income, Officials,
Sic. Published Annually. Crown Svo,
cl both, Is. 6d.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower.Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jkrrold. Illust. Post Svo, cl. lp.,23.6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol. Fcap. Svo, illustrated
cover. Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By Fi G, Heath. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Garrett. The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Post
Svo.illust.bds., 2s. ; cr.8vo, cLexSs 6d.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1884. One Shilling Monthly. A

New Serial Story, entitled "Philistia,"

by Cecil Power, is now appearing.

"Science Notes," by W. Mattie

I Williams, F.R.A.S., and "Table

\ Talk," by Sylvanus Urban, are also

i continued monthly.

\* Now ready, the Volume for January
to June, 1884, cloth extra, price 83. 6d. ;
Cases for binding, 2s. e each.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the

World Say P
In Honour Bound.
In Love and War.
For the King.

Queen of the

Meadow.
In Pastures Green
Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the

Forest. [hem.
A Heart's Prob-post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Dead Heart.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.
Loving a Dream.

By Mead and Stream. Three Vols.,

crown Svo.
Found Out. Three Vols., crown Svo.
[Shortly.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s, each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Sekiks contains  The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and Galatea
 Charity  The Princess  The
Palace of Truth Trial by jury.

The Second Skriks contains  Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen Dan'l Bruce Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore The Sorcerer The
Pirates of Penzance.

Blenny. A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glennv. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Godwin.  Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Ccrn-
plate. All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Oc
cu pat ions of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of E!ia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. Montgomerie
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, byT.M'CRiE,D.D,

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke,

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Sh3i:ey's Later Poems. Lion and
Cynthia, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c

tt

Golden Library, Thh, continued 
Shelley's Prose Works, including A

Recitation of Deism, Zastrozzi, St.

Irvine, &c.
White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with Additions, by

Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopaedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. Sd.

Gordon Cummings. F.),Works

by:

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
8s. 6d.

In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d.
[Slily.

Graham.  The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. ; cloth
extra, 2s. 6 d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
KoNER. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. HuF.FFER. With 545 Illustrations.
New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (James), Works by:
The Wilds of London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Low Life Deeps: An Account of the

Strange Fish to be Found There.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot. The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History oi Mankind. By
Arnold Guvot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:
Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s,

Hake's (Dr. T. G.) Poems, continued-news
Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 63.
Legends of the IVlorrow. Crown 8vo

cloth extra, 63.
The Serpent Play. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra. 63.

Hall. Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
clo th extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday. Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over loo Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d

Lanky Pansy : A Collection of
Very EasyTricks,Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremf.r. With 200
lusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus).  Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas).  Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hard,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
33. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 23.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover. Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
63.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, lOs. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 410, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).  American

Humorists. Include tig Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward, .Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED Bit

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroke.

Ellice Question. I Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover. Is. ;
cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph. With Illustrations
by A. Fredericks.

Mercy Holland, and other Stories.
Three Vols., crown 8vo. {ShoHly.

IMPORTANT NEW BIOGRAPHY.

Hawthorne (Nathaniel) and

his Wife. By Julian Hawthorne.
With 6 Steel-plate Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 243.

[Twenty-five copies of an Edition de
Luxe, printed on the best hand-made
paper, large 8vo size, and with India
proofs of the Illustrations, are reserved
for sale in England, price 43. per set.
Immediate application should be made
by anyone desiring a copy of this
special and very limited Edition.]

Heath (F. G.).  My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cl.ex , 5s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Animals and their Masters. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Social Pressure. PostSvo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6i.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Heptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herbert.  The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.
Crown 8vo, bound in parchment, 83.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial Introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 183.

Hesse-Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
14.S. [/ preparation.

Indies (Charles), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

Holy. The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Holy. With 12 Illustrations
by P. MacNab. Three Vols.,
crown Svo. [Shortly.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6J. ; another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Holmes.  The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl. limp, Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:
From Nowhere to the North Pole

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post8v<j,
illustrated boards, 23.

X3

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including hia Ludicrous
Adventures, Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Lusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, gilt, 73. 6d.

Hooper.  The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Home. Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
HoRNE. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown Bvo,
cloth extra, 73.

Howell. Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in
their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George
Howell. C r. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

Hugo.  The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Hunt. Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemn ed.

Angelo.  Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cl, limp, 2s. 6d

Irving (Washington),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
Tales of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alia mora.

Janvier. Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvi er. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by. Each

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. ; or post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Dark Colleen.

The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Nature near London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 63.
The Life of the Fields. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 63.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo,

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
[In the press.

Jennings (Hargrave).  The

Rosicrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra , 7 3. 6d.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and )ane
Ferrol. Illust. Post 8vo.cl.lp., 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol. Post bvo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Jesse. Scenes and occupations

of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth lirnp, 2s.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
200 Lusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 61.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in ail Times and Countries.
With One Hundred illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth ex tra, 7 8. 6d.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. "With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth ex tra, Ribs. ; or separate ly, 63. each.

Josephus.TheCompleteWorks

of. Translated by-winston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kavanagh. The Pearl Fountain,
and other Fairy Stories. By
BRiKGETand Julia Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations J. Moyr Smith.
Small 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Kempt. Pencil and Palette:

Chapters Arrant Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s 6(1.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d ;

or post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Oakshott Ca style. | N u m b er See teen
Knight. The Patient's Vade

Wlecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.;
cloth, Is 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their
Poems, L.eiters.drid Rtuiains. With
Reminiscences and Notes by W.
Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles
of the Title-pages of the rare First
Editions of Lamb's aud Coleridge's
Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig'' Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post Svo, cloth extra, 23.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small svo, cloth extra, 53.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c.:

The Thousand and One Nights:
commonly called, in England, " Thracian
Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by fits Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8yo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Land's Arabian Nights, continued 
Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies I'rom "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of " The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 68.

Lares and Penates ; or. The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, Ss. 61.
Clerical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth

limp 2s. 6d.
Forensic Anecdotes Post Svo, cloth

liinp, 23 6d.
Theatrical Anecdotes. Post Svo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by:

Carols of Cockayne. With numerous

Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth limp,

2s 6d.
Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited

by Henry Sleigh. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Life In London ; or. The History

of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
78. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

There Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s 6d each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! " .
lone.

Locks and Keys. On the Dei

velopment and Distribution of Primitive
Locks and Keys. By Lieut-Gen.
Pitt-Rivers, F.R.S. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Roxburgh,
163.

t5

Longfellow :
Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mt-i," "Hypt-r-
iii," " Kavanah," " The Frosts and
Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown
8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Da VIES, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 2s;
cloth limp, 2s. 6(1. [Shortly.

Lucy. Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henkv V. [lucy. Crown Wvo,
cl. extra, 33 . 6d ; post rive, ill hist. bds.,2s.

Luslad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Sensorial
Verse by Robe rt Fkkknch Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

McCarthy (Justin, l\/l.P.),Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of ipso. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. .'\lso a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 6s each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, Gs.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [Vol. I. in the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens. With la Illustrations
by F. Barnard. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 38. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),
Works by:

Scrap on, and other Poems. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is ; cloth. Is 6d.

England under Gladstone. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, s.

Macdonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With ii
illustrations by James Allen. Small
crown tvo, cloth extra, Ss.

Guttapercha Willie, the Working
Genius. With 9 Illustrations by
Arthur Hughes. Square 8v9, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MtLLAis. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomas WIngfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macdonald.  Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor.  Pastimes and.

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post Svo,
cloth 1 uip, 23. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)
of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with .Vh-moirs  Biographical, Critical,
Bibliosraiihicai, and Antidote  illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half ol the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Noir
many and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R,
Macquoid. Square Svo, cloth gilt,
lOs. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid, Square
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

About Yorkshire With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid, Engraved
by Swain. Square 'Svo, cloth extra,
10s. 6d.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 28.

Lost Rose, and other Stories. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay.  Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Magician's Own Book (Tlie"):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cramer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with

Cards, Dice, Balls, &c., with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile

of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals

emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Price 5s.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by :

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment,
83.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Alloy's (Sin Thomas) Mont

d'Arthup: The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomerie Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; or,
j post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Open! Sesame!
Written in Fire.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman.  Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo. illustrated boards, 28,

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

An Idle Excursion,and other Sketches,
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The I innocents Abroad ; or. The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "), post 8vo, illust. boards. 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.;
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Life on the Mississippi. Without
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With numerous Lusts. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [preparing.

Massinger's Plays. From the
Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mathew.  London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With?
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maitre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedie Humaine" and

its Author. With Translations b

H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular

Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."



Mayfair Library, continued-astronomy
as a Fine Art.

Brilliant-Savarin.

By

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Beg.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and
Galatea Charity  The Princess
The Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen Dan'l Bruce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob Lar-wood.



Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.
Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S.

Leigh.
Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S.

Leigh.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Ourselves: Essays on Women. By

E. Lynn Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By Robert

Macgregor.
The New Paul and VlrglnlsL By

W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic. By W. H. Mal-lock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Chqlmonde-

j,ey-Pennbll.

Mayfair Library, continued 

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-

mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by

George Du Maurier.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims, by

H. A. Page.
Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.
More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
The Philosophy of Handwriting. By

Don Felix de Salamanca.
By Stream and Sea. By William

Senior.
Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

Thornbury.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.

By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Medicine, Family.  One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lend. Cr. 8vo, Is.; cL, Is.G d.

iVlepry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a).

Through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of "Texas
Sittings'' 400 lusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 61.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Touch and Go. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s.6d.; post 8 vo, illust.bds., 2s.

Mr. Dorillion. Post 8vo, illust.bds., 2s.

Miller.  Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, v/ith its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs.
F. Fenwick Miller. Small 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6 d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management of
the Skin; with Directions for Diet,
Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c. Small 8vo,
la. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
Small Jive, Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation
to Diseases of the Skin. SmU 8vo,
Is. ; cloth ejtra, la. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

MoncriefF  The Abdication;

or, Time Ties All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirtek, A.R.A, Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bound i n buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown Svo.cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A Model Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Val Strange: A Story of the Primrose

Way.
Hearts.

The Way of the World.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.

Commons Carr. Illust. by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth extra,
7.S. 6cL.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moor Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
Js.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Oliphant.  Whiteladies : A

Novel. With Illustrations by Arthur
Hopkins and Henry Woods. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Connor. Lord Beaconsfield

Biography. By T. P. O'Connor, M. P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the book down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth ext, 7s. 6d.

Reilly. Phoebe's Fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

b'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. , Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, lOs. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 28. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.

A Dogof Landed*.

Pascal.

SIgna.

In a Wlntei" City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Plpistrello.

A Village

mine.
Fibrin
Maremma.

command:

A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 5s.
Frescoes : Dramatic Sketches. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 5s [Shortly.

BImbI : Presentation Edition. Sq.

8vo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges,

7s. 6d.
Princess Napraxine. Three Vols.,

crown 8vo, 31s. 6d.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos. Selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study,
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
Paul Ferrolll: A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

Paul. Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post svo,
I 'Illustrated boards, 2s.



Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands,

Walter's Word.

Halves. I Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. I High Spirits.

Under One Roof. 1 Carlyon's Year,

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exile.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family. | At Hep Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The ClyfTards of ClyfFe.

The Family Scapegrace

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead,

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wv.;ed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

Kit: A Memory. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 38. 6d.

The Canon's Ward. With Portrait
of Author. Cr.vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

In Peril and Privation: A Book for
Boys. VVitti iiuiiieroiis Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

[In preparation.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by : Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Lusts. by G. Du Maurier,

Phelps. Beyond the Gates.

By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Author of " The Gates Ajar," Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d,

Pirkis. Trooping with Crows :

A Story. By Catherine Pirkis. Fcap.
8vo, p cure cover, l3.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:
The Encyclopaedia of Costume; or,
A Dictionary of Dress Regal, Ecclesiastical,
Civil, and Military from
the Earliest Period in England to the
Reign of George the Third, Including
Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a
General History of the Costumes of
the Principal Country es of Europe,
Two Vols., demy 4to, half morocco
profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts,
7 7s. The Vols may also be had
separately (each complete in itself)
at 3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General
History of Costume in Europe,
The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts, With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d.
Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879,
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, tis.

Play-time: Sayings and Doings
of Baby-land, By Edward Stanford.
Large 4to, handsomely printed in
Colours. 53.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols,,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 103. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:

The Chose Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo. cl. extra, 78. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other bones. Post 8vo. illust.bds.,23.

Popes Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol, Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Power.  Phillstia: A Novel. By
Cecil Power, Three Vols., crown
8vo. j Shortly.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Valentine: A Sketch. With a Frontispiece
by Hal Ludlow, Cr. 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,illust. bds.,23.

The Foreigners. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex,,38.6d.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival, Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED EY

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Lusts.
Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A
Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific
Subjects. Cr 8vo, cloth extracts.

Our Place among Infinities: A Series
of Essays contrasting our Little
Abode in Space and Time with the
Infinities Around us. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven: A Series
of Essays on the Wonders of the
Firmament. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Lusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With Lusts.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Shortly.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown Svo, Is. 6d.

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks,
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully
Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s . 6d.

Rambosson.  Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate
of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo,
cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations,
and a beautifully executed Chart of
Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fourth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Richardson.  A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Reade (Charles, D.C.L.), Novel

by. Post Svo, illust., bds., 23. each ;
or cr. Svo, cl. ex., illust 3s. 6d. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
FiLDES, A. R.A.

Christie Johnston. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A. , and C. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
FiLDES, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself In His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Wo man-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Reading. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Singleheart and Doubieface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. MacNab.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals. IlIustratedbyE. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Ridden! (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

Weird Stories.
extra, 3s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Lusts. Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, lOs. 6d.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

50 Lusts. Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. With

58Illusts.byALFREDRiMMER and C. A.

Vanderhoof. Sq. Svo, cl.gilt, lOs.GcL

il

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Women are Strange Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.; postSvo, illust. bds., 2s.

The Hands of Justice. Crown 8vq,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

The Poets' Birds. Crown 8vo. cloth

extra, 73. 6d
The Poets' Beasts. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, wit's
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Fkiiesr by
George Crl'ikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. A few
Large-Paper copies, printed on hand-made
paper, with In<iia proofs of the
Illustrations, price 36s.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 53.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Russell (W. Clark, Author of
"The Wreck of the Grosvenor),
Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
On the Fok's'le Head: A Collection
of Yarns and Sea Descriptions.

[In the press.

Sala. Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson.  Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (16S8 to 18471. Edited
byHENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.e x.3s.6 d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Ag-inst the V/orid.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion In the Path.

The Two Dreamer*.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by :
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock.
The High Mills.

Heart Salvage, by Sea and Land.

Three Vols., crown Svo.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology.
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
SiC. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
6s. per year, post free. Each Number
contains a Coloured Plate and numerous
Woodcuts. Vols. I. to XIV. maybe
had at 7s. 6d. each ; and Vols. XV.
to XIX. (i8i3\ at 53. each. Cases for
Binding, Is. 6d each.

Scott's (Sir Walter) Marion.

An entirely New Edition of this famous
and popular Poem, with over 100 new
Illustrations by leading Artists. Elegantly
and appropriately bound, small
410, cloth extra, 163,

[The immediate success of "The
Lady of the Lake," published in 1882,
his encouraged Messrs. Chatto and
Winds to bring out a Companion
Edition of this not less popular and
famous poem. Produced in the same
style, and with the same careful and
elaborate style of illustration, regardless
of cost, Mr. Anthony's skilful
supervision is sufficient guarantee that
the wcik is elegant and tasteful as well
as correct.]

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated.
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or "White
Magic." By W. H. Cramer. 300
Engravings.
The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or,
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.
The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Grace:! ul Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww,
Win 300 Illustrations.
Lanky Pansy: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of I? 'nd. Edited by W. H*
CReMR. Wuh 200 illustrations.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

"Secret Out " Series, continued 

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intel let ual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With many
Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c., with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.


Senior (William), Works by :

Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
By Stream and Sea. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :
The First Folio Shakespeare. Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blount. 1623.  A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process  ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Crown 4to, cloth
gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8yo, cloth extra, 83,

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s.;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems, the Shelley Papers,
&c. : Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi. St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan: 

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals
The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Banner Matthews. VVith Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, cl. bds., 12s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Essay on the Poetry ot
Sidney, and Notes, by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown
8vo, cloth boards, Ribs.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Atwood am' ions Camden
Rotten. Crown wvo, cloth extra,
with 100 I!lustrat!Oti:=, 7s. Gd

Sims (G. R.) How the Poor

Live. With 60 Illustrations by Fred.
Barnard, Large 4to, Is

Sketches.  A Match In the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
Svo, illus treated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by:

The Prince of Argolis : A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with
130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.



Smith's (J. Moyr) Works, continued 
Tales of Old Thule. Collected and
Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith. Cr.
8vo, cloth Kilt, profusely lust., 63.
The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. By Evan Dal-done.
Illustrated by J. Move
S M i TH. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology:

An Essay in Illustration of
the Belief in the Existence of Devils,
and the Powers possessed by Them.
By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5 s.

Speight.  The Mysteries of

Heron Dyke. By T. W. Speight.
VViih a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. TowRv. With Illustrations by
Walter J Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth g wilt, 6s.

Staunton.  Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Gaines. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small cr. t'vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Sterndale. The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Stevenson (R. Louis), Works by:
Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Frontispiece by Walter

Curse. Port 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Cane. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 2s. 6d.
Virginius Puisque, and other

Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,

cl. extra, 63. , post Svo, illust. bds., 23.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. hvo, cloth extra, 63.
Prince Otto: A Roninnce. Crown
8vo, clotextra, 63. [In preparation.

St. John. A Levantine Family.

By Bale St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Stoddard. Summer Cruising
In the South Seas. By Charles

Warren Stoddard. Illust. by VVai.lis
Mackay. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 3s 6d.

St. Pierre.  Paul and Virginia,
and The Indian Cottage. I'.y Ler-
Jardin St Iierke. Edited, with Life,
byKev, E. Clarke. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices o< their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Zim-
Men ; and a Frontispiece. Crown
Svo cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions,
Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period
to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations,
Edited by William Hone.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73 . 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London: A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society. Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Tr aves." Cr. Svo, clo th extra, Ts. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. 8vo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown Svo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 73.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

F"cap. Svo, 9s. Also in crown Svo, at

same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 93. Cr. 8vo. same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo Is.
William Blake: A Critical Essay.

With Facsimile Paintings. Demy

Svo. 16s.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, lOs 6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

Svo, 73.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus : A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Is.
A Note on Charlotte Bronze. Crown

Svo, 63.
A study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 83.
Songs of the Springtide. Crown

bvo, 63
studies in Song. Crown Svo, 73.
Mary Stuart: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 83.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown >5vo, 93.
A Century of Roundels Small 4to,

cloth extra, 8s.
A Midsummer HoTday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Symonds. Wine, Women and

Song; Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with an Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, parchment,
63.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J, C.
Hotel. Medium 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos. Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by:

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
With Coloured Frontispiece and 100
Lusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7S. Gd.

Our Common British Fossils: A
Complete Handbook. With numerous
Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. i Preparing.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," 'twixt Axe and Crown,"
"The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's
Wife," "Anne Boleyn'' "Plot and
Passion'' One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

*** The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical

Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
Crown 8vo, cloth ex tra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading'. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, c '. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida.

Proud Malsle.

The VJolin-Playef.

Thomas (M.). A Fight for Life

A Novel. By W. Mov Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Lusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Times (John), Works by:

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Lusts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Torrens.  The Marquess

Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An
Historic Portrait. By W. M. Torrens,
M. P. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

The American Senator.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann.

Marion Fay.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-lead hers.

Troliope(Frances E.),Novelsby

Like Ships upon the Sea. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Mabel's Progress. Crown Bvo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Anne Furness. Cr. 8vq,cI. ex., Ss. $d.



Trollope. A.). Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Tytler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Bvo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

Saint Mungo's City. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d. \ Preparing,

Beauty and the Beast. Three Vols.,

crown 8%-o, 31s. 6d. [Shortly.

Van Laun. History of French
Literature. By Henry Van Laun.
Complete in Three Vols., demy 8vo,
cloth boards, 7s. 6d. each.

Villars.  A Double Bond: A

Story, By Linda Villars. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Walcott. Church Work and

Life In English Splinters; and the
English Student's Monastic. By the
Rev. Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, B.D.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Map and Ground-Pla ns, 14s.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Woi-ks by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-fourth Annual Edition,
for 1884, cloth, full gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth. Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1884).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Shilling Knightage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights ot the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
doth, Is. Published usually,

Walford's (Edw., M.A.) Works, con.
The Shilling House of Commons

(1884). Containing a List of all the
Members of the british Parliament,
their Town and Country Addresses,
&c. 32mo, clot). Is. Published
annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, a-rtd House of
Commons (1884). in One Volume,
royal 32:00, cloth ex;ia, gilt edges,
6s. Published annually.

Haunted London. By Walter
Thoknbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, Pla. With Illustrations
by F. W. Faikholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra. 7a. 6d.

Walton and Cotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 3 vo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown .Svo cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Vr'cincierings In Patagonia; or, Life
auiong the Ostrich Hunters. By
jtjLius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Terrific England In the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Robt. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers, By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low Life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns.
Cotlee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles HindlY, With lUostlt

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued 

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Lusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family
(ices to 1847). Edited by Henry
Sanson.

Summer Cruising In the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.

Warned. A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. :

Warrant to Execute Charles \. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2S.

Warrant to Execute IVlary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile oi the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed ort paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Weather, How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.K.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc. &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westropp. Handbook of Pottery

and Porcelain; or. History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Houdkr M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations', and a List of
Marks. Crown bvo, cloth limp, 43 6d.

Whistler v. Ruskin: Art and

Art Critics. By J. A, Macneill
Whistler. 7th Edition, sq. 8vo, Is.

White's Natural History of

Melbourne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Post Bvo,

cl both limp, 2s

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Lusts., 2s. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 63. fin the press,

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edition, with a New
Preface. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 6s.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

post Bvo, illustrated boards, its. each.

Cavalry Life. I Regimental Leg ends.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. 1 In the press.

Wood.  Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Ehezer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. 8vo,cl ex., 7s. 6d. ; half bound, 9s.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:
Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt,
F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cl. ex., 7s.6d.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



NOVELS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.

Now in the press.

Robs. BUCHANAN'S NEW NOVEL

WILKIE Collins NEW NOVEL.
"I Say No." By Wilkie Collins.
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Mrs. CASH EL Holy's NEW NOVEL
The Lover's Creed. By Mrs. Castel
Hoed, Author of " The Blossoming of
an Aloe," &c. With 12 Illustrations
by P. MacNab. Three Vols,, crown
8vo.

SARAH Tatler's NEW NOVEL.
Beauty and the Beast. By Sarah

Tytler, Author of "The Bride's Pass,"
"Saint Mungo's City," " Citoyenne
Jacqueline," &c. Three Vols., cr. 8vo.

CHARLES GIBBON'S NEW NOVEL.

By Mead and Stream. By Charles
Gibbon, Author of 1' Robin Gray,"
"The Golden Shaft." " Queen of the
Meadow," &c. Three Vols., cr. 8vo.

Foxglove Manor. By Robt. BucHANAf,
Author of " The Shadow of the Sword,"
God and the Man," &c. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

BASIL'S NEW NOVEL.
"The Wearing of the Green." By
Basil, Author of " Love the Debt,"
"A Drawn Game," &c. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

JULIAN HAWTHORNE'S NEW
STORIES.
Mercy Holland, and other Stories. By
J. Hawthorne, Author of " Garth,"
"Beatrix Randolph, &c. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

NEW NOVEL BY CECIL POWER.
Philistia. By Cecil Povver. Three

Vols., crown Svo.

THE PICCAD

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown Svo, cloth
BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow?
BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-money Mortify.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

This Son of Vulcan.

With Harp and Crown.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.
BY WALTER BESANT.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men.

The Captains' Room.

All In a Garden Fair.

Dorothy Forster.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,

A Child of Nature.

God and the Man.

The Shadow of the Sword.

The Martyrdom of Madeline.

Love Me for Ever.

Anna Water.

The New Abelard.
BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.

Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

Ally NOVELS.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe,
Heart and Science

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White,
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. P

BY BUTTON COOK.

Paul Foster's Daughter

BY WILLIAM Cycles.

Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.

Port Salvation,

BY JAMES DE MILLS.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Level I.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I One by One.

QueenCophetua. I A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What will the World Say?
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem,
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.
Loving a Dream.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE,
Garth,

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke,
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Number Seventeen,
Oakshott Castle.

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Duncan.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love!" | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.
BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose. I The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written In Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. 1 Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. | Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea.
The Way of the World.

BY MRS, OLIPHANT.
V/hiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


Best of Husbands
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof,

Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canons

Ward.



Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L,
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. I Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt. I Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. 1 A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman. | Two Dreamers.
One Against the World.
The Lion In the Path.
BY KA THA Fine SA Under.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. | The High Mills.

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin Player'.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.
The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land Leaguers.

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond
By IVAN TURGENIEFF and Of hen
Stories from Foreign Novelists,

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY y. S. Winter.
Cavalry Life.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post 8vo, illustrated

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little GIH.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Gel la's Arbour,

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 2s. each.

By Besant and Rice, continued 

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.
BY WALTER BESANT.

All Sorts and Conditions of

The Captains' Room.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.

Camp Notes. 1 Savage Life.
BY Bred HARTE.

An Heiress of Red Dog.

The Luck of Roaring Camp.

Californian Stories.

Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
The Shadow of the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Miss or Mrs. P
The New Magdalen.

The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.

Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.

Blacksmith and Scholar.

The Village Comedy.

You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.

Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.

Our Lady of Tears.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.

Sketches by Boz.

The Pickwick Papers.

Oliver Twist.

Nicholas Nickleby.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.

A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell.
BY M. BETH AM-ED WARDS.

Felicia. I Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.

Roxy.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.
Pr" faced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY HA IN FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green
The Flower of the

Forest.
A Heart's Problem
The Braes of Yarrow.


Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the

World Say.o
In Honour Bound.
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King. 

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winters Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroke

Eilice Quentln. I Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS,
Ivan de Biron.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.



Cheap Popular Novels, continued
MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornlcroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.
BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle. | Number Seventeen

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Lean Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas WIngfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID,
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY VV. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT,

Open! Sesame 1 I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air.

Oats. ' Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorlllion.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY,
A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
V/hlteladles.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine.


Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

TwoLlttleWooden

Shoes.
Signa.

In a Winter City.
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.


Bimbl.
In Maremma.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

ClyfTards of ClyfFe

The Family Scapegrace.


Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Bast of Husbands

Psalter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

V/hat He Cost Her

Humorous Stories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget,

Like

Like Father,

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
200 Reward.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.

L 'W

8

:v\

ft

III.

'I SAY NO.' By Wilkie Collins.

BY MEAD AND STREAM. By Charles Gibbon.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST. By Sarah Tytler.

FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan.

PHILISTIA. By Cecil Power.

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE. By Ouida.

DOROTHY FORSTER. By Walter Besant.

A DRAWN GAME. By Basil.

HEART SALVAGE. By Katharine Saunders.

Chatty & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

Jl ITiovci

BY

MRS CASHEL Holy

AUTHOR OK
-HE QUESTION OF CAIN* ' THE BLOSSOMING OF AN ALOE ' 'nO SIGN

ONE, AND ONE ONLY, IS THE LOVER'S CREED'

Oliver Wendell Holme

IN THREE VOLUMES-vol. III.

Chatty & WINDUS, Piccadilly


rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODH AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OK

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER Park

XXIII. THE STORY OF JACK" 1

XXIV. A BACKWARD Glance 37

XXV. THE STORY OF MAVIS 7U

XXVI. M. LE CAPITAINE 99

XXVII. AUSTRALIA FELIX 127

XXVIII. THE chapter of the old story

of Jack's getting his own way with the Squire ;

but with a difference. This time the son

appreciated the father more wisely. He had

been learning in a school that teaches quickly.

With the establishment of entire confidence

between himself and his father, great peace

came to Jack, notwithstanding his distress and

uncertainty about Mavis.

 * * * *

The first thing to be done is to collect any
information that is to be had from those
persons who saw Wynn and his daughter just
before they went away,' said the Squire, when
Jack and he had settled down to a practical
discussion. ' I can think only of the Colvins and
Eeckitts. The Colvins have left the neighbourhood,
but we can get at anything they know

by your writing to Mrs. Colvin, and Receipts will
answer questions readily enough. And now
that I think of it,' added the Squire, ' Miss
Nestle saw Mrs. Wynn and her stepdaughter
shortly before they left Bassett. Very likely
they told her particulars.'

Nestyy won't tell us if they did,' said Jack,
and his slightly embarrassed laugh did his
father good to hear.

'Why not?'

Because  well, sir, because she knew that
I used to spend a good deal of time at the Farm,
and, in fact, she suspected me ! She was very
funny about it. Of course I pretended not to
understand her, but she made it clear that she
was afraid certain persons might not keep themselves
in their place, and that the invariable
results would follow.'

Imagine her feelings if we cross-examined
her, and she discovered our object,' said the
Squire, dryly. He was quietly amused, and
having made his sacrifice, pleased, by the readiness

with which Jack not only accepted the
new position, but actually associated him with
a comic aspect of it.

In that case she would certainly defeat it.
If we are to get anything out of Nestyy, you must
keep me dark, and do the cross-examining yourself.
Eeckitts, I have already ascertained,
knows only that Wynn's destination was Melbourne.'


Where are the Colvins gone to ? '

'I do not know. Mr. Colvin has got a
foreign chaplaincy, I believe. He called at the
House to take leave of me ; but I was in
London. The new parson  an odd sort of
man, but I like him  has been here. He could
tell us, no doubt, where to find Mr. Colvin. I
will call on him tomorrow.'

Then,' said Jack, ' there's the address I got
from Williams  108 Cecil Street, Liverpool.
Eeckitts knows nothing about the place ; it maybe
a lodging-house, or some relation of Wynn's
may live there.'

Not of Wyua's. I have heard him say
there was no one belonging to him except his
brother. But some relation of Mrs. Wynn
may possibly live there ; she came, I believe,
from Liverpool.'

Jack's face brightened. Here was a chance
for him. It would be so great a boon to learn
some particulars of Mavis's stay in Liverpool,
to see somebody who had actually seen her ;
perhaps a person who, being interested in Mrs.
Wynn, would have taken particular notice of
Mavis, and could give him many precious bits
of information. Jack's buoyant fancy began
to be stimulated by hope. He wondered
whether he might safely go to Liverpool, if the
weather cleared a little, in a day or two ; but
the Squire put aside that notion as utterly
foolish, and said he would go himself. It was
characteristic of the feminine element in Mr.
Ikssett's character, that he understood the increase
of Jack's impatience which ensued upon
the full explanation between his son and himself,

and was neither annoyed with it nor contemptuous
of it.

When the two parted for the night, each
remembered vividly the day on which Mr.
Bassett had told Jack the news that Mr.
Dexter brought, and how that misfortune had
only drawn the father and the son closer together.


The Squire still adhered to his habit of
sitting up late, and carried a book into his bedroom
as usual. On this night he did not
attempt to read, but making up the fire so that
it should last through a long vigil, placed himself
before it in his old chair, in whose leathern
arms his elbows had worn comfortable hollows,
and gave himself up to one of those reveries
which he had avoided of late. Not for long
were his thoughts engrossed with the matter of
Jack's narrative. They were led away from it
to more personal themes ; for his son, in his
appeal to him, had struck ' th' electric chain
wherewith we're darkly bound.' When he reverted

to the immediate circumstances, it was
with misgiving and distrust of himself, unusual
to the habit of his mind. He was not a self-sufficient
man, but he was accustomed to make
final settlements of account with himself, and be
done with matters. Mistakes that were irreparable,
errors that had been repented, did not
generally trouble Mr. Bassett's peace ; but a
disturbing recollection belonging to both these
categories, and connected with the idea of Mavis
Wynn, was busy with him in that night watch.

The boy said he had won the greatest
prize, a perfect love ; '  so ran the Squire's
thoughts ; ' and I remember Dexter's description
of this girl. At all events, at the worst, he will
not have the world for his rival. It may blame
and neglect him, but it will not be able to poison
his happiness, and destroy his trust.'

Acting immediately upon his son's suggestion,
the Squire made an opportunity of questioning
Miss Nestle as to her knowledge of Farmer
Wynn's intentions; but found that she had

nothing new to communicate. Possessing the
key to her sentiments, Mr. Bassett could perfectly
appreciate the dry reserve with which
Miss Nestle answered his questions, and declined
to commit herself to an opinion upon Miss
Wynn's looks and manners. She couldn't
rightly say ; she hadn't much noticed the former
she was not one that set any great store on
looks, and she had been brought up to remember
that ' handsome is as handsome does ' ; with
respect to the latter, she had no fault to find
with Mavis Wynn. So far as she (Miss Nestle)
was concerned, the young woman had always
kept herself in her place. It was to be hoped
she would continue to do so, and would ' settle
down ' in that strange country ; also that she
would resist ' fatalism '  an evil, Miss Nestle
had heard, which was invading even such very
foreign parts.

The Squire retired from his interview with
the inexorable old lady, feeling thoroughly
snubbed, and very much as if he and Jack were

co-conspirators in a plot against Miss Nestle's
peace ; while she relieved her mind by a rigorous
inspection of the poor remains of Jack's
outfit. Stern and uncompromising was Miss
ISTestle's countenance as she verified her worst
anticipations, realising the ravages of war in
the disgraceful condition of shirts and socks,
the disappearance of sundry choice articles of
attire, and the dilapidation of the solid leather
valises, which ought, she considered, to have
done ' Mr. John for his lifetime, and afterwards
formed a portion of his estate. There
was, however, more than this in her thoughts.
Mss Nestle was a good deal sharper than the
Squire took her for, and it was with almost
pious thankfulness that she reflected upon the
completeness of the separation between Mr.
John and Mavis Wynn, and the moral certainty
that Mavis would be ' married up ' to somebody
immediately on her arrival in Australia, according,
as Miss Nestle had been informed, to the
custom of that country. ' I'm ver' much

VOL. III. c

mistaken,' said she to herself, 'if Mr. John
hasn't been talking the Squire over about that
girl. He couldn't have done it if it hadn't been
for the fright his father got about him, and
then his wounds ; but now, when the Squire
looks at him, and thinks how near he was to
never looking at him again, he couldn't say no
if Mr. John wanted the moon. I do believe if
Mavis Wynn was here, the Squire would let
him marry her tomorrow, and give her away
himself into the bargain. Drat those savages !
His best vests are just in ribbons.'

It is needless to say that the shrewd old
lady's conviction was confirmed by the Squire's
departure for Liverpool, ' on business,' three
days later, when the weather improved.
Nothing ever moved Miss Nestle from her unalterable
attitude of keeping her place ; but she
knew how to combine that consistent behaviour
with making people aware that she was not
quite pleased. While his father was away,
Jack was emphatically ' Mr. John ' with her.

'9

The result of the Squire's journey is soon
told  it was nothing. He found the house in
which Mrs. Wynn had died, uninhabited, and
decorated with bills announcing that it was ' To
Let ' ; and on making inquiry at the house-agent's,
failed to procure any information.
The agent was employed by the landlord, who
did not live in Liverpool, and he knew nothing
of the recent occupiers of No. 108 Cecil Street.

As Mr. Bassett was walking back from Cecil
Street to his hotel, a funeral procession on its
way to the then New Cemetery was advancing
in the opposite direction. The funeral was a
plain one, but largely attended, and the Squire,
standing still while the hearse passed, and
removing his hat, according to the Catholic
usage, observed that the working classes and
the very poor were numerously represented
among the people who followed the mourning
coaches on foot.

'Whose funeral is that?' asked the Squire
of a lame Irish crossing-sweeper, who owns

c 2

resting on his brush in admiration of the spectacle.


Other Chad's, yer honour. The Lord
be merciful to him ! '

He was well known, I suppose ? *
Bead he was, sir, and well liked by rich
and poor.'

Was he good to the poor, then ? ' x
Is it Other Chad ? Yer honour does not
live down this a way, or we'd know that. The
very looks of him where sickness and sorra
was, done as much good as his physic. He's
a sore loss to this place anyhow ; may the
saints make his bed in a better ! Thank yer
honour.'

The lame boy pulled a shaggy lock of hair
in astonished acknowledgment of a shilling, and
Mr. Bassett went on his way, thinking that the
crossing-sweeper's words made an enviable
epitaph. This little incident passed quickly
out of his mind ; it had not, seemingly, the
most remote connection with any interest of

his, or with his business in Liverpool ; but the
death of Dr. Chad, whose name the Squire had
never heard, was one of the arrows that fate
had begun to let fly at Jack Bassett, and of
which there was a quiverful in reserve. Dr.
Chad and Jane Price were the only persons
who knew that Mavis Wynn had not sailed for
Melbourne with her father. Of these two, one
was now dead; while the other knew nothing of
Mavis's engagement  indeed, it was most likely
that she had never heard of Jack Bassett's
existence.

I don't think there is anything more that
we can do,' said the Squire, when he had made
his dismal report to the dejected lover, ' until
you get an answer from Mrs. Colvin. There is
no danger that any letter from Australia could
go wandering about in search of you, is there . '

No ; there's no fear of that,' said Jack.
Mavis was always to write under cover to
Rutherford, and I saw him the day I arrived in
London. No letters had reached him since

last May. If any had come by this mail, I
should have had them yesterday.'

Presently the Squire said : ' If we could
discover who it was that sent the magnetic
message to Wynn when his wife died, we
might even yet get a clue to their friends in
Liverpool. You remember that Eeckitts mentioned
the news being sent in that way.'

'I'll go at once and ask him if he can
recollect the name,' said Jack, briskly, and
descended to the Farm-side.

Farmer Eeckitts could afford him no help.
He knew that Wynn had been informed of his
wife's death by magnetic despatch, as he had
already told the Squire, but he knew no more.

In due time Mrs. Colvin's reply to Jack's
inquiries arrived. It was very formal and
quite unsatisfactory. Mrs. Colvin had seen Miss
Wynn just before the departure of the farmer's
family from Field-flower Farm, and believed
that she had no precise knowledge of her
father's intentions. Mrs. Colvin had asked Miss

Wynn to write, but she had received no communication
from her.

There was nothing more to be done or
looked for, until the arrival of an answer to
Jack's letter to Mr. Lewis Wynn. This he had
addressed to the post-office, Melbourne.

There is nothing for it now, but waiting
and patience,' said the Squire. Jack agreed to
this, with all the cheerfulness that he could
muster.

Waiting and patience were experiences as
novel and trying to the young man as his
physical invalidism. The bad weather in the
early months of the new year was very inimical
to Jack ; his father had to look long in vain for
the returning ' likeness to itself,' that is so terrible
a thing to miss in a beloved face. The
Squire had feared that his son would chafe
very much under the inaction to which he was
condemned, that his mind would be so full of
the war, and of his recent companions, that he
could not arrive at any contentment. This

apprehension proved, however, to be unfounded
; the fact being that Jack was much
too ill to entertain any delusions about his own
strength. He was indeed eager for news of
the war ; he followed all the details of the
siege of Sebastopol with the deepest interest,
but he felt as far apart from it as if the shell
that hit him had shot him into another planet.
His walks extended at farthest to the village,
or along the well-beloved river-bank from the
boathouse to the weir ; the greatest exertion
he had yet made was when he mounted into
the turret-arbour, bare of its greenery now, and
a bleak place in the cold wind.

He looked around him mournfully ; picturing'
to himself Mavis's last visit to the spot that
had associations so dear to her. He knew how
heavily the shadow of parting had fallen upon
her there, with the dread of the long voyage,
the terrible distance, the inevitable silence and
suspense, although happily she could not have
anticipated the accidents that were to increase

and protract those trials. From the spot where
he now sat, leaning on his stick, and wrapped
up in a great coat, like an old man, the spot on
which they had talked of their love and hope
with all the confidence of youth, health, and
inexperience, he knew that Mavis had gazed in
sad farewell upon the fields and the river, recalling
the promise that she was not permitted
to fulfil. It was for him now, so changed in
all but the love and fidelity that he had vowed
to her there, to renew that vow daily, while the
river ran and the wind blew. On the turret-arbour
floor lay a dreary waste of dead leaves,
twigs, and other rubbish. Jack sent Eeuben
to clear this away. The boy did his work
expeditiously, and asked to see ' the Captain,'
when it was completed.

Weil, Eeuben, what is it ? ' said Jack.
Have you made a good job of the turrets '

Something in Reuben's face made Jack
remember how useful he had been in the
matter of the boat, and also suggested that it

was just possible Eeuben knew as well as himself
why that means of transit had been so
frequently required.

Yes, sir, it's all tight and tidy now, and I
found this in a hole in the wall at the back of
the bench. I thought I'd best bring it to you.'

The object in question was a small square
book, bound in red morocco with gilded leaves,
and closed like a pocket-book, with a tongue
passing through a leather band. Its contents
consisted of a collection of Scripture texts
arranged for daily perusal, with a short commentary
upon each, and its title was ' The
Children's Bread.' The pretty little book was
soiled and sodden, but Jack recognised it. He
had often seen it in Mavis's work-basket.
Mavis, from Aunt Jane,' was written in a
childish hand on the tittle-page.

You did quite right, Eeuben,' said Jack ;
here's half-a-crown for you.'

It was a simple thing from which to derive
pleasure ; but the little book came like a

message to Jack. Examining it afresh that
night, he found a pencilled memorandum on
the last page in the handwriting of Mavis :

My cousin's new address is Matthew
Jeffrey, the Pines Farm, near Ottawa, Canada.'

This set Jack to thinking whether he had
heard Mavis speak of this cousin. He could
not remember that she had ever done so.

The neighbourhood did not fail to testify
its interest in Jack. The visitors to Field -
flower Farm were numerous, and came from
distant places, undeterred by weather. Invitations
poured in upon Captain Bassett ; for it
was not known at first how severely he had been
wounded, and how feeble he still was. The
Squire was pleased by this friendliness, and the
habitual reserve of his manners gave way to a
surprising extent under the influence of his
gratified feelings. He even went so far as to
talk of accompanying Jack to Trescoe Park,
when he should be equal to a visit to a house
full of gay young people. Probably this concession

was due to the distance lending enchantment
to the view ; for Jack was equally
far from being able or inclined to make any
such effort. Sir Henry was a frequent visitor,
and when he reported at home upon Jack's
invalid condition, the young ladies declared
that they were not going to wait until Jack
could come and tell them ' all about it,' but
that their father must take them to Field-flower
Farm.

Jane and Caroline agreed that the whole
thing was deliciously romantic. The idea of
the long-descended Bassett of Bassett, in comparison
with whom the Frescoes themselves
were ' mushrooms, mere mushrooms,' insisted
Jane (who was, nevertheless, very proud of the
Trescoe importance), living in that lovely old
farmhouse  itself a monument to the antiquity
of his family  and being so nice and simple
about his troubles ! The idea, responded Caroline,
with sisterly approval of these sentiments,
of Jack Bassett, the mere boy whom they had



known so well until quite lately, but had
thought so little about, having come back there
a wounded hero, mentioned with distinction by
the military chiefs, 'just like grandpa at
Waterloo,' the sisters reminded each other 
and, no doubt, looking so interesting ! They
had thought Jack quite charming when he
came to the Park on his farewell visit ; but of
course he was not exactly ' interesting.' No
one in such fine health, with such good spirits,
and so flourishing an appetite, could fairly claim
that epithet.

The Trescoe girls were late for the Byronic
period, and almost at the limit of that of Sir
Walter Scott ; still, they had notions of the
Corsair and Manfred, and they stoutly maintained
their preference for Clement Cleveland
and the Master of Ravenswood, over the heroes,
muscular or metaphysical, who were in vogue
at the Crimean epoch.

It was quite delightful to be able to elevate
a playmate of their childhood, a friend of later

days, into a position as nearly heroic as the
fact of his reality and their familiarity with him
would permit ; to make out that he was, if not
so delightful a creature as the lover of Minna
Toil, or the lover of Lucy Ashton, a compound
of the romance of those personages
with the military dash and sparkle of Charles
O'Malley, Jack Linton, and Tom Burke.

The sisters were thoroughly good friends ;
they had no secrets and no rivalries. They
ruled over their father with an unquestioned
sway ; but, to do them justice, they did not
abuse it. Their chief subject was very happy
in his obedience, and would have been equally
surprised and incredulous, if he had been told
that he ' spoiled' his children. He would have
proudly challenged the accusing moralist to
produce unspoiled specimens superior to his
Jane and Caroline.

With Sir Henry Trescoe, Jack Bassett was
a prime favourite, and for the Squire his
wealthy and powerful neighbour entertained a
friendship that afforded a proof of the affinity

of contrasts. Sir Henry Trescoe was a Protestant,
a Whig, an ardent sportsman, fond of
society and of active life ; he cared nothing
for art, and, although a well-informed man, he
cared almost as little for literature ; yet he was
never better pleased than when in the company
of the Squire, who was unlike him in all these
respects.

To Jane and Caroline, Mr. Bassett was
rather an awful personage. They could not
deny that he was very kind and gentle ; almost
too much so, indeed ; for his manner had the
disagreeable effect of making them feel like
children ; and this, at nineteen and twenty
respectively, and so thoroughly ' out ' as they
were, was hardly to be borne with patience.
But it was his absent way that made them uncomfortable
; he would receive them like little
dears from the nursery in new frocks, and
then seem to forget their existence.

The Dame's Parlour-side was made to look
its very best and brightest on one bleak and
blowy day, when Sir Henry Trescoe brought

the girls to Field-flower Farm. Those happy,
healthy, hearty young persons, who were good-looking
enough to be called pretty by general
consent, and had very little nonsense about
them  this was better, because more natural
than if they had had none at all  made an
immediate conquest of Miss Nestle. She had
exerted all her skill in the preparation of
luncheon, and she had the peaceful conviction
that nothing better had ever been done at the
house on the hill. The young ladies were
delighted with the Dame's Parlour, with the
view from the long casement, with Trotty
Veck, and with Isaac. They completed their
conquest of Miss Nestle by declaring that Belshazzar's
intelligence and articulation surpassed
those of any parrot with whom they had
hitherto been acquainted. They also pleased
the Squire by the unaffected respect with
which they regarded Jack. They were, indeed,
completely taken aback by their first look at
their old friend.

Whatever was the notion their girlish
imagination had formed of a Crimean hero, it
must have been very unlike the appearance
presented by the gaunt, hollow-eyed, sallow-faced
young man, who met them with a smile
indeed, but not the smile that used to brighten
Jack Bassett's blue eyes, and show his white
teeth so becomingly. Their pre-arranged curiosity
and vivacity died out suddenly at sight of
him ; they were more at ease with the Squire
himself. All Jack had seen, done, and suffered,
vague as their ideas of it were, had severed
him completely from the old familiarity that
they had lightly, it now seemed to them almost
impertinently, fancied they could take up with
ease. The Squire and his son seemed to have
changed places ; it was Jack that was absent
now, and occasionally seemed oblivious of their
presence, while Mr.* Bassett talked to them
pleasantly, and was genuinely glad to see
them.

Jane and Caroline where not very talkative

VOL. III. D

on the way home. They were uneasily conscious
that they had not ventured to carry out
their programme of getting Jack to tell them
'all about it.' He was very charming, but,
somehow, quite changed ; not only a man now,
but a different sort of man from what they had
expected. If the depths of the girls' harmless
minds could have been sounded, there would
have been found in them both a notion that it
would be pleasant if the Crimean hero were to
fall in love with one of them  it did not matter
which one  and also that nothing was more
likely. But Jane and Caroline returned to
Trescoe Park that day, wiser, if not perceptibly
sadder, young women. In one respect the
Crimean hero bore a distinct resemblance to
their dear Corsair. Whether it was war only,
or that poetic combination, love and war, that
was preoccupying him, they could not tell;
but both Jane and Caroline knew it would be
useless to attempt the captivation of Jack
Bassett. He would assuredly treat them as

Conrad treated his lovely captives, when, inexorably
faithful to his own Medora,

He sought, nor shunned, but coldly pass'd them by.

I had no idea Sir Henry's daughters had
grown up so good-looking. They are very
nice girls indeed,' said the Squire, when their
visitors were gone.

 My dear father, you must have seen then'*
ever so often since they grew up.'

Ah, yes ; I suppose I have ; but I never
happened to observe them. Time gets on with
us all, only we don't notice what it does to our
neighbours. I should have said they were about
twelve or thirteen, if any one had asked me.'

Jack laughed.

Why,' he said, ' Jane and Caroline have
been treating me like a small boy for the last
four years, on the strength of their .'


They seemed rather afraid of you to-day.'

Really. I did not notice.'

D 2

The topic did not interest Jack, and he let
it drop.

The ensuing weeks of waiting, during
which Jack possessed his soul in not too much
patience, have no history. His health continued
precarious ; he acquired the certainty
that the medical verdict which pronounced it
to be impossible that he should rejoin the Eifle
Brigade at the seat of war was a correct one,
for his right arm was almost useless. At the
expiration of the period which he had assigned
in his own mind to inaction, he obtained leave
of absence for a year.

CHAPTEE XXIV.

A BACKWARD GLANCE.

This narrative must now be turned aside for a
while, and the hands upon the dial put back.
The months that have elapsed since Mavis
Wynn was struck down insensible by the blow
which there was none to ward off from her
forlorn head, have been chronicled in advance
with respect to the new tenants of her old
home. The new leaf turned over by time at
the Farm, with the new year, has been set
before the reader's eyes. It becomes necessary
to glance at the passage of those months at
the Chateau de la Dame Blanche.

The first hours of an immeasurable grief,
especially when that grief has come with a
terrible shock, are seldom distinct in the sufferer's

recollection until long afterwards.
Then, as day by day the slow pangs of association
are inflicted impartially by everything in
one's life, small and great, trivial and important,
one finds that the sting of it all was in
the first infinite instant, when one knew that
the thing was, and that one was still alive, and
had to bear it.

Mavis's merciful swoon did not last long.
When she recovered her senses she found
herself in her bed. A wet bandage bound her
head ; the cool air was coming in through
the open window ; a shaded light was by her
side ; she was alone. In what seemed to her
only a moment, her mind was perfectly clear ;
gie did not know how she came to be there,
but she knew what had happened. John
Bassett of the Rifle Brigade  dead ! Jack, her
lover, her true, brave lover, he who was to
have come home, whose wife she was to have
been, he who would have gone to the uttermost
end of the earth to find her, was dead in a



strange and dreadful place, among a crowd of
sick and suffering men. Jack, her lover ! She
had seen death three times, though she was
only a young girl ; she had seen her aunt, her
uncle, and Mrs. Wynn dying and dead. She
knew what the awful presence was, and that
so her Jack had looked on a day when she
had been happy, thinking of him, writing to
him, talking to him in her mind that was
always full of him, and never strayed from
its contemplation of him ; and then  then he
had been put out of sight for ever, and her
heart was not there to break, but lived on
ignorantly, to break now. She flung her arms
wildly into the air, and cried aloud that it
could not be, that we could not live and be
real creatures, if all we love and live for candie
and be buried and we not know it, but goon
living as if the world and the daylight were
still the same ! that it was impossible and
impious to believe such a mockery could be of
God's making ! But before her hands had

dropped at her sides, while the sound of her
words was in the air, the frenzy died away
in an awful agony of tears, and the ice-bolt of
conviction, the inner knowledge against which
her poor, vain protest had gone forth, struck
her to the heart, and struck her dumb. It
was all possible ; it was all true. Jack was
dead. That paper on the dressing-table was
his letter which she had taken out with her in
the morning, and read in the glen (every
feature of the scene with every word of the
letter sprang into her tortured memory) ; but
the hand that wrote it was cold, the lips that
touched the signature for a token were turning
to dust in foreign earth. Thought succeeded
thought, image rushed upon image, like the
tumbling waves of a cruel sea beating to death
the creature that is their spoil and their sport
only that death did not come. She started
up and stretched out her hand towards the
letter, then fell back shuddering, and hid her
eyes with the coverlet from the sight of it. A

convulsive trembling seized upon her limbs,
and she thought ' this is dying.' A quiet step
approached, a steady voice spoke to her as a
hand withdrew the coverlet :

You are better now, Mademoiselle. Take
this.*

Her head was gently raised, and a cup was
held to her hips by Jeanne Penhoel. Mavis
drank the ' tisane,' but made no attempt to
speak. It was strange that she could not
speak in French, for she understood what was
said to her ; but so it was. Some days elapsed
before she was able to recall the foreign tongue,
and at first this went far to convince Jeanne
Penhoel and Gregoire that the English lady
was ill of the same malady as the EagHsh
maid, and was, like her, delirious. In the
morning Dr. Eenouf saw Mademoiselle Warne,
and was so exasperated at having a second
patient on his hands whose ignorance or
malevolence prevented her from speaking the
language of civilisation, that he paid her case

very little attention ; but told Jeanne Penhoel
the girl was a fanciful Anglaise, and not really
ill. ' She has had a fright of some kind, so far
as I can make out,' said the doctor, bustling off
in a hurry, ' and seems to think a great deal of
it. Keep her quiet, don't make a fuss with
her ; let her cry, the attack of the nerves will
work itself off in that way ; she will be all
right tomorrow.'

She had had a fright ! Of course ; it was
the sight of Jean in the pass ! She had made
but little of it at the time, but afterwards it
had overpowered her, being so much fatigued
as she was. Ah, that unlucky Jean ! Here
was another misfortune to be set down to his
account. Jeanne felt quite guilty and heart-stricken
as she looked at Mavis's pale fixed face
when she came several times throughout the
night to her bedside from that of the English
maid ; but she still held to her own opinion.
Mademoiselle Warne was, she was sure, really

ill. She had seen enough of her in the few
days of their joint nursing of Eliza Blount to
refuse to believe in such a break-down as this
without greater cause. But Jeanne tended her
second patient unassisted, and troubled Dr
Eenouf no more about the fanciful Anglaise.

Gregoire was sorely troubled. He could
not decide for himself whether to inform
Madame Vivian of this fresh complication or
not. Jeanne earnestly dissuaded him from
doing so. ' What is the use, my good Gregoire
? ' she urged. ' Madame ought not to
come into the house with the fever, and
Mademoiselle Sybille must not. This demoiselle
has much courage ; she will soon recover herself,
and it is not as if we were keeping her family
from her. She knows you and me better tliaii
she knows Madame.'

Pauvre petite ! ' was Gregoire's comment.
The old man's heart was touched by this
exposition of the girl's loneliness. ' When

Madame comes home he added, ' and they
are better acquainted, she will be like her own
people to Mademoiselle Warne.'

Mavis did not disappoint the expectation of
Jeanne Penhoel ; on the third day after the
line in the English newspaper had struck her
to the ground, she rose from her bed, and
would have dressed herself and gone into Eliza
Blount's room, only that Jeanne earnestly dissuaded
her from donor go :

You have not taken the malady,' said
Jeanne. ' You are ill because you have had a
fright ; but you may take it if you go in the
way of it while you are still so weak. And
the patient is mending ; she will do well
now.'

Mavis submitted. In the solitude of the
remote house, with its beautiful surroundings
and its orderly arrangements, she began to
rally from the physical shock she had sustained,
and she forced herself to look her position in
the face ; to come to a decision as to what her

4S

future was to be, iu so far as she was capable
of overruling it  that future in which there
was no joy, no hope, no Jack. But she had no
sooner said those last words to herself than she
shrank from what they conveyed, and blamed
herself heavily for having ever suffered them to
pass through her mind. No Jack ! What,
then, was the signification of the promises they
had pledged, of the vows they had interchanged
? It was very well and very easy fora
young man and a maiden, in the youth of
their life and the fulness of their hope, to talk
of the restlessness of love and the eternity of
their troth, which was to last while the river
ran and the wind blew ; but that love had
never been deathless or that troth eternal iu
the same sense as now they where. Her soul
was lifted, carried away into the world that to
her, indeed, was still the world to come, but to
him was the actual Now, the world already
come, the ' vascular saaculorum ' of those prayers
she had read in Jack's prayer-book, the equivalent,

he told her, of the ' world without end ' of
her own.

Then there came to Mavis an experience,
not, doubtless, without many examples among
the heavily bereaved, and a result of that
imperfection of our human senses whereby
they are subjected to the disabilities of time
and space. This experience may be regarded
as a foretaste of the actual ministration of
God's good angel Death to us all. ' No Jack ! '
she had said, in her exceeding great anguish,
when encompassed with the darkness of despair.
But there came a whisper to her from
the unseen world, and she rose and followed
it ; as Christiana followed the Guide along
the way that had been trodden by Christian
who had gone before, and she was straightway
lifted up into a wonderful calm, and a
kind of transformed existence, full of peace,
as of the just made perfect. This did not
last ; it was soon succeeded by a dreadful
flagging of the spirit, and a mere grovelling

in the dust of loss and bereavement ; but it
had been., and all her life long Mavis remembered
it, as a foretaste of final freedom and
victory.

When she was able to review her position,
if not calmly, at least steadfastly, and with a
rigid resolve to face the whole of the truth, she
summed it up as follows :

She was entirely alone. Her lover was
dead ; in those four words all the history of her
past was told, all the hope of her future was
buried. She was, indeed, ignorant of the fact
that her father had cursed her, but she knew
that he cared nothing for her; she had little
hope that he would forgive her, if now, in her
great desolation, she prayed for his forgiveness
and told him the truth, with the terrible addition
to it that time had brought. She had not
received Jack's permission to tell her father the
truth, and that sanction could never reach her
now. Her lover's last letter had been sent onto
her from Liverpool just after she read the

fatal record in the ' Times,' and its words of
love and trust, of hope and exultation, had
almost turned her brain. Of course it conveyed
no hint of what his advice would have
been under the subsequent circumstances, for
Jack had then thought of her as leading the
old life at the Farm.

In the midst of her own grief, Mavis could
think of Mr. Bassett and pity him with all her
heart ; she could remind herself that the blow
would fall still more heavily upon the Squire, if
he were to learn that his beloved son had
formed a plan for his future unknown to him,
and had died with a secret between them. If
she revealed to her father the engagement that
had existed between herself and Jack, she had
no doubt that, whatever Wynn's course of conduct
towards her might be, he would inform
the Squire. He would do that, because there
might be either money or revenge to be got
by doing it, perhaps both, and her father loved
the two almost equally.

No, the secret was Jack's secret ; the promise
he could not release her from must for ever
bind her now. It should be sacredly kept to
the end. She would write, so soon as she was
able, to her father, and offer to go to him, but
the name of her lover should never pass her
hips. There was something almost sweet to her
in this kind of deep burial of her love and
hope within the great rift in her heart, and in
the feeling that the Squire's sorrow had a
sharer, though all unknown to him.

The physical effects of the shock Mavis had
sustained were not very lasting. She was
grateful for the loving care with which Jeanne
Penhoel tended her, and her unselfish nature
seconded the efforts that were made to restore
her. Mavis had not been accustomed to the
kind of indulgence that encourages the casting
of any portion of one's burden upon other
people ; she strove with all her will and power
to nerve herself to the carrying of her own
unaided for ever. In a few days she had

VOL. III. K

quietly resumed her place in the sick room,
where she found Eliza Blount recovering
rapidly, and it was then that she discovered
how superior a person Jeanne Penhoel was,
and learned that she had been in the service of
Madame Vivian long before that lady came to
live in Brittany. Mavis blessed the solitude
that left her free during those first awful days.
However light her duties as companion to
Mademoiselle Vivian might prove, however
fully Madame Vivian might realise her ideal of
that gracious lady, to take up those duties just
then would have been more than she could
have borne.

The absence of the two ladies was a great
help to her. But, when Mavis caught sight of
her own altered face in the glass, she felt that
Madame Vivian must needs question her, even
though she were to ask Jeanne and Gregoire to
say nothing of her illness ; for she was no
longer the person who had taken her employer's
fancy. It was, indeed, a changed face

that Mavis looked upon  a face which had lost
its delicate and fitful bloom, and from which
girlhood had passed away for ever. A year
for each day that had gone by since the blow
fell on Mavis, might have passed over her fair
head, when, gazing at her own image with eyes
so unlike those into which Jack Bassett had
looked for love and found it to the full, satisfying
a lover by no means exacting, she asked
herself could such an alteration escape questioning
? She was as much disturbed by this
reflection as she could now be disturbed by
anything that merely concerned herself. All
her personal affairs had fallen away into insignificance,
in the face of the facts that Jack was
dead, and that she could not die ; but she was
forced to consider what she could do, supposing
that Mrs. "Vivian should no longer think her a
desirable companion for her daughter.

She was content to take me absolutely on
trust,' said Mavis to herself as she stood before
her mirror, perusing the desolate face it pre

J



seated to her, like that of a stranger. ' She
knew there was a story in my life, and she
asked no farther. If she asks now, it will be
enough to tell her that the story is ended

That same night Mavis nerved herself to
the task of looking over and putting away all
those treasured things, by which, in case of
any accident, the secret she was so resolved to
keep might be discovered. She had no letters
in her possession except Jack's, and a few of
Jane Price'? laconic epistles ; the latter she
destroyed. The morning light found her, pale
as marble, and with a face as fixed, reading
her lover's letters over and over again, as if she
did not know them all by heart. When the
dawn paled her candles she desisted, and
slowly folded the precious papers one by one.
With a shudder of repugnance she sought the
packet which she had made up for the post on
that last day of her old life, and, enclosing it
with her lover's letters in a cover, she sealed
the parcel with Jack's own seal, and wrote on

it the behest already recorded. She then placed
the parcel in a drawer of her writing-table.

K I die,' she thought, ' as I may, as anyone
may, without time or power to speak 
it will certainly occur to them to look there for
my papers.'

Mavis had nearly two hundred pounds still
remaining of the sum which her aunt had
bequeathed to her. She looked over the notes,
wondering how much she ought to put by for
her burial, and for how long she could make
the remainder do, if she were not to remain at
the Chateau de la Dame Blanche. The light of
the summer morning poured into the room ; she
started up with a cry of anguish, pushed the
notes into the drawer, and, going into her bedroom,
lay down on her bed with her head hidden.

The doubt and dread with which Mavis
had looked forward to the return of Madame
Vivian and her daughter, were both justified,
and dispelled, by her first private interview
with the former.

My dear,' said Madame Vivian, ' I wish to
say to you that I am acquainted with all you
have done for me, with your care of Eliza
Blount, with your admirable conduct in every
respect, and I thank you heartily for it. I
hope that on your side you have had nothing
to complain of, and have been as comfortable
as was possible under the circumstances.'

Mavis gave her the strongest assurances on
this point.

'And now, my dear, let me have a word
with you about yourself. That you have been
ill, and are still suffering in mind, I have
only to look at you to know. I am aware
that there has already been trouble in your
life ; rest assured that I shall never seek to
know its nature, and that I say this only to
inspire you with trust in me of the passive
kind. But fresh trouble has come to you since
you have been here, and that is not quite the
same thing. I may ask you, in reference to
this, is it anything in which you can be relieved,

helped, in any way ? Is there anything
a friend could do for you ? Because, if there
is, I want you at once to take me for granted
as that friend, and to let me do it.'

Mavis covered her face with her hands, and
said, with blinding tears, that nothing could
help her :

I have a new trouble, dear madam. God
bless you for your goodness to me : but you can
do nothing. My grief is beyond help or cure.'

My child, nothing but death is beyond
help or cure.'

My trouble is a death.'

Silently Madame Vivian took the girl's
feverish hand, and held it in a clasp that gave
Mavis a feeling she had never before experienced.
Comprehension, sympathy, pity, promise, protection,
were all in that firm and gentle pressure.
Her resolution gave way before that
yearning need of all these that oppressed her
young, broken heart.

'I will tell you what I can,' she said, with

catching breath ; the cold shudder of grief passing
over her body like a chill wind, sand I
know you will ask me no more. It is not
because I doubt your kindness or your truth,
but because I promised  I promised  him. He
is dead ; he died in the camp at Scutari, and I
heard it here. No one knew that we were to
be married when he came home ; no one in the
world knew it but our two selves, for I promised
him. He was afraid that we might be
parted if it were known, because there was such
a difference between us, and those who could
have interfered would think more of that than
of a good character and a true heart. I promised
him, madam, and I can tell you no more.'
You have told me enough, poor child.'
Madame Vivian drew Mavis to her, and
kissed her on the forehead. ' I see, indeed, that
I cannot help you, and that healing must be
left to time. But will you do something forme
? It is to try to be at home here ; to feel
that you are free, and in all ways respected ;

and if I can help or comfort you, however
blindly or indirectly, come to me, but to me
only  my daughter must know nothing of this
as confidently as you would have gone to
your mother.'

Mavis was unable to thank her otherwise
than by her tears, and Madame Vivian dismissed
he]' to the restoratives of solitude and
the open air.

After a pause, seemingly occupied by some
painful thoughts, Madame Vivian removed from
its envelope a letter addressed to Miss Metge,
which she had placed in the basket for post, just
before Mavis entered the library in obedience
to her summons, and added the following postscript,
to it; 

I have got a glimpse of the story of Miss
Warne, and I am more than surprised by what
it has revealed. An unequal attachment, which
would so certainly have been condemned by
her friends that it was kept an inviolate secret
this is what she has admitted. The last thing

I should have thought likely. There is nothing
to indicate who the man was, for he is dead.
She heard of his death since she came here ; but,
as he died in the camp at Scutari, he was probably
a soldier, non-commissioned officer, or
something of that sort. Though there is a
certain shock to my feelings in this discovery,
it does not change my impressions of her, and
it does not affect the narrative of her conduct I
have already given you in full. She will recover
her spirits, I hope, here, and in time be as
happy with us as we can wish.'

The error into which Madame Vivian had
fallen arose from two causes : the first was the
ambiguous terms in which Mavis had faltered
out her explanation ; the second was its never
occurring to her that Mavis herself could be
in any respect an object of disdain. On this
false foundation her busy imagination soon
constructed a story for Mavis which was in
every detail unlike the reality.



I think Miss Warne is charming ; I like her
as much as I hoped to like her ; but, Maman,
she is not a bit what I expected.'

Too grave, Sybil ? Too serious for you ? '

No, no, not that. But she seems to have
no self She does not talk of anything, or look
at anything, as if she had a personal share in it,
or any right to be considered. Oh, Maman,
what a contrast to Miss Litton, who was always
prepared to take offence at everything, and to
stand on her dignity at every moment.'

Miss Warne is indeed very unlike Miss
Litton, Sybil. But are you sure you are happy
in her company ? I leave you so much to
yourselves. I am so unsociable a mother for a
grown-up daughter,' continued Madame Vivian,
with a little hesitation and an anxious glance at
Sybil, ' that it would not do at all if you were
not quite comfortable together.'

Sybil, who was sitting on a footstool at
Madame Vivian's side, and amusing herself by
changing the rings on her mother's left hand 

the right, with a pen in it, rested on the table 
put the slender fingers to her cheek and her
lips as she said :

You are the very wisest mother in all the
world, for any kind of daughter, and I don't
hate the books and papers a bit. Marguerite
and I  I'm going to call her Marguerite, she
would like it  are getting on together as well
as possible. I should never tire of her company,
I am sure ; but I am sincerely surprised that
she does not tire of mine. Oh, of course, you
are not surprised,' said Sybil, meeting, the
mother's fond incredulous smile with an
answering one full of sweetness ; ' but I really
am so idle, and she is always occupied; and I
don't do anything particularly well, you know,
except enjoy myself; but there's nothing Marguerite
does that is not well done. However,
I am going to learn a great many things from
her  industry among them. And there's one
thing I'm going to give up, if you don't mind,
Maman.'

What is that, darling ? *

Singing. Don't say anything until I explain.
I have thought for a good while that
there was not much use in my persevering with
it. I shall never sing well enough to please
anybody but you, and you are pleased with my
mild minstrelsy only because you don't know
any better. Come now, confess, isn't that so ?
You are so clever ; you know so much  " la
femme savante par excellence," Madame de
Eastacq calls you  you needn't mind confessing
that there is just one thing you don't know and
that is, what music ought to be. Why, Maman,
I never heard you sing a note, or saw you touch
the piano, in my life ; and there is more of your
goodness, for you are always providing me with
music, and what the teaching I have had has
cost you, I am afraid to think. I am beginning
to have some notions about money, and what
things cost ; I am indeed. But it has been
wasted, Maman  except on making me love
you all the more. I shall never be more thana

 a decent sort of singer, and there's no such
thing.'

Madame Vivian laughed.

Yes, I know it's nonsense ; but at the same
time nothing can possibly be more reasonable
or more true. Oh, Maman, if you only knew
anything at all about music, and it only was
not I, but somebody else, who wanted to leave
off making a fool of herself, you would see it at
a glance. I have known for a long time I
should never sing well enough to please anybody
above a barrel-organ audience, and certainly
never well enough to give myself the slightest
pleasure ; but I might perhaps have gone
on, costing you money, and making myself
ridiculous, if it had not been for Marguerite's
music'

Don't exaggerate, Sybil. There is some
sense in what you say, but it is not all sense.
Miss Warne's singing is, as I told you, very
fine.'

It is like heaven to hear. And how good

she is about it ; she never seems to think me
unreasonable, and I don't believe she is even
proud of it. Wliy, Maman, if I had such a
voice as hers, and could use it as she does, I
would be a prima donna, like Madame Grist,
and have flowers thrown to me every night, all
the kings and queens and great people presenting
me with diamond things, poets writing
verses, and everybody talking about me. I
said so to Marguerite this morning, and told
her I was sure she might be a prima donna if
she chose, only she has no ambition.'

And what did she say ? '

That she could no more be a prima donna
than she could be a prime minister, and that it
is quite true she has no ambition. Then she
said for me two old lines that she learned when
she was a child :

The wind is loudest on the highest hills,
And quiet life is in the vale below.

She was quite distressed when I told her I
meant to give up singing and seemed to think

you would be annoyed about it. But you're
not, are you ? '

I am not answered Madame Vivian, after
a little reflection. ' I can quite understand
your feelings. I don't think I should have
been satisfied with mediocrity myself.'

'No, of course not. It's all right, then, and
Marguerite will be so pleased that you don't
blame her for my little caprice. I am off now
to the glen. Ha 1 ' she added, as she released
her mother's hand, ' the big ruby is loose in
your number-three ring, the one I like best.
Feel it ; it shakes.'

She ran gaily away, and Madame Vivian
was free to resume her work. But she did not
do so ; there was some disturbance in her
thoughts. She leaned back in her chair, and
stretching out her left hand before her, looked
attentively at the ring. It was a half hoop,
composed of three fine rubies and two brilliant.


'And so the child would like to be a prima

donna,' she mused, ' to have diamond things

given to her by great people, and verses written

about her. It is well for me that she cannot

sing.'

    #

The summer wore away, and the position
of Mavis became more and more assured. She
had completely won the heart of Sybil, and her
sincere and courageous efforts to subdue her
own feelings, and to do her duty, did not go
unrewarded. They could not bring her gladness
of heart ; they could not lift her spirit
from the dust ; but they gave her peace of conscience.
She had written to her father, and
was satisfied to await the fiat of his reply.

The Chateau de la Dame Blanche was a
quiet residence at all times, but in the first
year of the war it was quieter than usual. The
tourists and artists, whom, in addition to her
small ' circle,' Madame Vivian was in the habit
of receiving in the summer and autumn, were
very few that year. Besides them the chateau

VOL. III. F

had only two visitors : a Frenchman, who had
been, Sybil told Mavis, ' man of affairs ' to her
mother's uncle  ' the uncle who gave us all
this,' added Sybil, waving her hand tovards the
richly stored cabinets of curiosities, ' and a great
deal of money too, I believe '  and an Englishman,
whom the young ladies did not happen to
meet. He came ' on business,' remained only
one night at the chateau, and was gone when
Sybil and Mavis returned from a visit to Madame
de Kastacq. Nothing was said about this gentleman's
visit or business to Madame Vivian ;
but Mavis, who had come to know every line
and look of her face far better than her daughter
knew them, and to love them almost as well,
saw that it had set a fresh mark of weariness
and care upon her.

I know what it is she reminds me of now,'
thought Mavis, as Madame Vivian sat listening
to her that same evening while she sang, and
Mavis could see the fine outline of the downcast
face and the slender folded hands that had done

SO much work in their time ; ' it is of those

words of Longfellow's in '' Evangehne" *the

constant anguish of patience." '

A word from Madame Vivian to Sybil, to
the effect that she would do well not to talk of
the war before Miss Warne, because she had
lost a friend, was enough to secure Mavis from
a distressing topic. Sybil did not want to talk
about the war; she was interested in it only
just so far as Eene de Eastacq was concerned,
and she heard all she cared to know at the
Chateau de Eastacq. There the universal topic
was discussed with the added interest due +0
the share of Eene in the successes gained by the
French army, and the personal distinction
which he had won. The autumn was passing
into winter when important news from the seat
of war arrived at the Chateau de Eastacq.

Eene de Eastacq, having been severely
wounded at the battle of Inkerman and left on
the held for dead, was rescued by the personal
exertions of an English officer, who all but lost

F 2

his life in the act of saving him. To this
trusty comrade the yoimg Frenchman professed
devoted gratitude and friendship. Eene
was more fortunate than his preserver, for he
had been able to resume his duties in a short
time, and had since participated in all the
achievements and miseries of the siege.

This intelligence had been duly conveyed
to the Chateau de la Dame Blanche, and on the
receipt of the first instalment of it, relating to
Eene's wound and narrow escape from death,
Madame Vivian, accompanied by Sybil, paid a
visit to Madame de Eastacq.

They heard her story, told with mingled
pain, joy, fear, and pride. After many questions
 for her replies to which Madame de
Eastacq referred to the letter written for her
son by a brother officer  Madame Vivian asked
what was the name of the English officer who
had saved her son's life ?

 Ah, those English names ! I find them so
difficult,' said Madame de Eastacq, 'but here

it is ; a name I must learn that I may bless
and venerate it.' Then she read unhesitatingly,
" Captain Jacques "  you would call that
James, I think  " Vessel, an officer of infantry." '
Madame de Eastacq was so sure about the
name, that, as it was one Madame Vivian had
never heard, she did not think of glancing at
the letter, though it was held out to her. Had
she looked at it, she would have seen ' Jacques
Bassett ' written plainly enough to English eyes,
and might have carried it to the hearing of one
to whom it would have been a word of life.
So that she might not seem indifferent to anything
that concerned the mother and daughter,
Mavis forced herself to ask them what Madame
de Eastacq had to tell them, and Sybil related
the rescue of Eene from among the mounds of
dead on the field of Inkerman by an infantry
officer, one Captain James Russell.

So near had discovery of the error which
had wrought such havoc in the life of Mavis
come to her, so widely and hopelessly had it
drifted away.

CHAPTEE XXV.

THE STORY OF MAVIS.

The new year in France had no great advantage
over the new year in England except in
the matter of its skies. The moral atmosphere
of the two countries respectively was more
alike in the first months of 1855 than it ever
had been previously, or than there is any likelihood
that it ever will be again. The external
aims and objects of England and France were
identical, their interests of a certain order were
harmonious ; the things that had to be done
and were to be suffered were alike in kind,
although different in degree. These visible
bonds of union were not, however, the strongest
that united the traditionally antagonistic countries
during that memorable period in the

history of this century ; the origin of the sympathy
lay deeper in human nature, even so
deep as those two great motives, love and
grief. The homes in which the time-honoured
salutation, 'A merry Christmas and a happy
New Year,' was uttered with a heart sick reservation,
and the homes in which 'la bonne
anne ' was ceremoniously ' wished,' with the
same, were scattered through the length and
breadth of England and France equally. For
the duration of that war, waged in brotherly
accord against the common foe, the silver
streak meant no division. In the French
capital there was more show of gaiety and good
cheer than in London. The imperial court
was extraordinarily splendid and hospitable,
while the armies of France were making the
military fame of the Second Empire ; fame that
had need to be dazzling indeed, with the blinding
light of the renown of the First Empire
ever turned upon it. In country places in
England, and ' en province ' in France, the

time passed in similar ways. The men were
in scenes of danger and hardship, 

Men with sisters dear ;

Men with mothers and wives ;

and the war was the one paramount topic
among the instructed and the ignorant alike.

Eene de Eastacq had come in for his share
of hard knocks early in the long day of the
war ; he had survived them ; he was destined
to come through it safely, and keep up the
family renown in arms. His mother's family
traditions were of the law, not the sword ; but
noblesse de robe ' was a profitable dignity
after the Restoration, and the ' dot ' of Mademoiselle
Guesle had saved the inheritance of
de Eastacq. The relation between the mother
and son was all the closer that their fortune
was derived from the former, and that the latter
had hardly known his father.

Madame de Eastacq was a devoted mother,
but she was not a nervous or fanciful person.
She was endowed with good sense, a strong

will, firmness of purpose, and as much judgment
as could fairly be expected to exist with
narrowness of mind caused by her true French
concentration, her ignorance of other moral
horizons than her own, and her inexpensive
sympathies. She had no imagination, and her
spirits were of the even and equable kind
generally attendant upon good health and a
limited range of solicitude.

In Madame de Eastacq's friend and neighbour
(for in Brittany they do not mete distance
with our measurement) she found a sympathetic
listener ; one whose unflagging power of being
interested in the things that concerned herself
not at all, might have impressed itself even
upon egotism so compact and complacent as
that of Eene's mother. No such comparison
was, however, suggested to the self-satisfied
mind of Madame de Eastacq, who held it to
be quite natural that Madame Vivian should be
vividly interested in Eene, while she did not
observe that her friend's demands upon her for

interest or sympathy were both rare and restricted.
She was provoked, as it has already
appeared, because she could not find out the
amount of Sybil's ' dot,' and whether a project
of marriage for her daughter formed a portion
of Madame Vivian's business in England ; but
outside of those facts, she was philosophically
indifferent to all that made the occupation of
her friend's thoughts, and formed her daily
life. She could push curiosity to the limits of
good-breeding as freely and unblushingly as
any lady in any land ; but she rarely felt that
sentiment in the abstract ; the element of at
least a potential interest of her own was
necessary.

As this potential interest existed in the case
of Sybil Vivian  whom Madame de Eastacq
really cared for apart from her designs upon
her  there was no coldness, such as might have
revealed her hollow-heartiness to her singleminded
and unsuspicious friend. Madame
Vivian's view of their relations was a characteristic



one ; to her mind the great bond between
them was their respective loneliness and
motherhood. Each had one sole object and
motive in her life ; each had a past that was a
sealed book, and a future in which self could
have no place and no history. Under such conditions
neighbours must needs be friends, on
pain of a breach of the law of charity ; and if
Madame Vivian felt that there was a wide expanse
of her mind and feelings as far from the
ken of Madame de Kastacq as if they two had
belonged to different species, this was only
what she had felt about everybody, for years.
That expanse, in which thoughts, feelings, and
fancies, not only solitary but incommunicable,
flourished, grew in extent as she went on
writing her novels in the solitude of her unsuspected
literary life, and she believed that if
people concerned themselves less about her
than she did about them, this was not their
fault, but her own.

Madame de Eastacq had not taken cordially

to Miss Warne. There were two reasons for
this. The lady, who was altogether French,
disliked the easy confidence with which the
lady, who was half-English, treated a young
person of whom so very little was known, and
she also disliked the influence that Miss Warne
soon and easily exerted over Sybil. Those
romantic ideas which Madame de Eastacq deprecated
in the case of Madame Vivian were
also, she felt convinced, to be apprehended in
that of the grave, graceful young woman for
whose unexplained melancholy her employer
showed so much consideration.

While the time was wearing away during
which Mavis was waiting for a reply to her
letter to her father, she often thought of how
she would have described her life at the Chateau
de la Dame Blanche to Jack. There was no
one now to whom her story was of interest, and
if there had been, she would have had no heart
to tell it. She wrote only once to Jane Price
after the terrible news ; it was to tell her that

no more letters for her friend would be sent to
later care. Then she felt that there was nothing
farther to say ; the correspondence dropped,
without unkindness or real forgetfulness on
either side. If Jane should ever have anything
special to tell her, Jane would no doubt write ;
if any change befell herself she would inform
Jane of it. She had also written once to Miss
Metge, according to promise, and had told her
that her life at the Chateau de la Dame
Blanche was all that kindness and consideration
could make it. But there was no need of farther
communication between herself and Miss
Metge ; there was no link, ever so slight or
accidental, between herself and the time that
was so recent, but from which a great gulf now
divided her.

With Jack her past had died. He had, in
reality, come into her life for only a few weeks,
but he had absorbed it all, and now it had
neither past nor future. There was the living
on from day to day, as nearly as she could, u[)

to her ideal of what he would have expected of
her, and there was the hope ' that maketh not
ashamed ' of the life beyond the grave. These
formed her interior strength, the outside life
was devoted to her duties.

Mavis had made a plan in her mind, that in
the case of her father directing her to join him,
she would pay a brief visit to her old home.
She should have to sail from Liverpool, she
supposed, as her father had sailed, and she
would stop at Chester on her way thither, to
visit Bassett and the Farm. It never occurred
to her to speculate upon whether the people
who had known the Wynns at Bassett were
aware that she had not gone to Australia with
her father. She did not want to see any one
except Mr. Eeckitts. She knew he would
willingly allow her to look her last on the old
rooms, and the scenes that were at first so
dreary, but had all at once become so dear.

She would venture to visit the house on the
hill too, if, when the time came, she could nerve

herself to bear the trial, and she would find
some pretext for asking to see ]vir. Bassett. The
poor girl thought she could be courageous when
she should be going away to the other side of
the world for ever. She would ask Miss Nestle
to let her go all over the house. She wanted
to see the rooms where her lover had lived as a
child, a boy, and a man; her brave young
lover, sleeping in his foreign grave, in the country
of the enemy, with the tumult of war
around his great silence and unchangeable
peace. Afterwards she would be able to see a
vision of those rooms, in the weary days and
nights that were to be hers, beyond those great
and awful oceans which Jack would have traversed
to bring her home, had it pleased God
to give to him and to her their hearts' desire.

Even though Miss Nestle were to consider
such a request a liberty, and to hold that Mavis
was not observing the golden rule, she would
still be bold enough to press it, and she would
tell Miss Nestle how often he whom they

mourned at Bassett had spoken of her at the
Farm with affection and gratitude. This would
touch Miss Nestle's heart, Mavis could not
doubt, and she would not deny her request.
She pictured the rooms to herself; silent,
vacant, with a thousand tokens of Jack's presence
in them, until she could hardly endure the
agony of her own fancy, and yet longed with a
desperate impatience to realise the pain of it.
In imagination she saw herself in the presence
of his father, the old man stricken with the
great grief of childlessness, to whom she might
have spoken of a sorrow equal to his own, but
harder because hidden, and she said to herself
that if his voice came to her with any note of
the music of that other voice which she was
never more to hear, she could hardly bear it for
mingled joy and sorrow. In her dreams she
frequently saw the old rooms at the Farm, and
the riverside arbour, and sometimes her gentle
stepmother's presence would return to her in
sleep. But as the months passed, and the

seasons changed, the silence that she observed,
and the absence of any link of association,
caused the sense of distance between herself and
what had been to increase out of due proportion
with the actual lapse of time.

In her capacity of companion to Sybil
Vivian, Miss Warne, little as she resembled the
notion that Sybil had derived from her mother's
description, proved eminently satisfactory. Her
steady efforts to do her duty bore the beneficent
fruit of all efforts of the same kind ; they reacted
upon herself, and laid upon her grievous?:
wound the unfailing balm of a good conscience.

To the distant horizon of the other duty
that lay before her, if her father should summon
her, she rarely directed a straining, gaze. She
did not doubt her strength when the day
should demand it ; her own will and her own
way were no longer of primary importance to
the stricken girl. The strongest feeling connected
with the present time, and with her
actual life, by which Mavis was now actuated

VOL. III. G

was that inspired by Madame Vivian. The
impression Mavis had recorded in that letter
which Jack was never to see, was deepened, as
the disposition and personalty of Madame Vivian
revealed themselves, in an association marked
from the first hour by mutual kindliness.

It was not only the intellectual superiority
of Madame Vivian over any other woman
whom Mavis had ever known that interested
her so profoundly. This was hardly surprising,
for her experience had been very limited. She
was more impressed by the large-heartiness,
the sound judgment, the easy capacity
with which Madame Vivian ruled the little
realm over which she held sway. 'If ever
there was a perfect lady,' Mavis would say
to herself, ' surely this is one.' Among the
ladies whom once she had wished to see,
because they formed Jack's society, none, she
thought, could be superior to Madame Vivian :
so gracious, harmonious, and full of good will
and good deeds was her daily life.

That daily life was regulated with a nice
observance of the needs of every member of
the household, and could not fairly be called
unsociable ; but many hours of it were passed
in solitude, on which even Sybil did not intrude
without a valid reason. Seeing how
close was the companionship between the
mother and daughter, and observing the devoted
and solicitous affection that united them,
Mavis was at some loss to account for this rule
of solitary hours in every day. Madame
Vivian's adherence to it had no doubt led to
her requiring a companion for Sybil. She
felt a little ashamed of herself when she divined
the secret of Madame Vivian's employment (a
secret known to Sybil, but honourably kept by
her) from accidentally seeing the address of a
London publisher on a large packet ready for
post. She knew now that the solitary hours
were not devoted to study only ; that Madame
Vivian was a writer of books.

It grew to be a strong wish of hers that

G 2

Madame Vivian should one day admit her
to her confidence on this point, and talk to
her about that engrossing occupation. Mavis
wondered whether it fulfilled the expectations
with which she had adopted it ; for there was
nothing in the matter clearer to the girl's naturally
observant mind, now brightened and
sharpened by sorrow, than that Madame Vivian
sought for strength and consolation in steady
and uniform work. Mavis would not have
said to herself in so many words : ' Only happy
women lead idle and luxurious lives in retired
places, if they have brains as well as money,'
because her knowledge was too small to supply
her with such a saying ; but she knew by
intuition that Madame Vivian was not quite a
happy woman, that the whole of her life did
not he within the manifest boundaries of it.
Mavis had probably derived this impression in
the first instance from the ready, though silent,
sympathy that she herself had received, and
which seemed to her like skilful nursing in illness.

This could come only from acquaintance
with grief. Had Mavis ever formed an ideal
of what a woman might be, who had all the
advantages of circumstances and training added
to grace and beauty, she was sure that ideal
would have been realised in Madame Vivian,
and she never wearied of observing her. The
discovery that she actually wrote books rendered
her more than ever interesting and
fascinating to Mavis ; it was impossible not to
wish to know what sort of books they were,
not to wish that she might draw nearer to her
kind employer's real life.

Sybil was very attractive to Mavis in a
different way. She had never seen anybody at
all like this young lady, with her English
frankness, and her French grace, her ignorance
of a world outside her own well-ordered,
beautiful, safe-guarded home, and its pleasant
neighbourhood, and her unconsciousness of any
woes or wants deeper and more hopeless than
those she could at least assuage, when they

were brought to her notice, by the liberal
almsgiving which her mother placed within her
power, and the personal care and kindness she
delighted in bestowing. Sybil Vivian was one
of the rare persons with whom charity is a
vocation, who have the gift of understanding
the poor, whose benefactions are balm 'that
break not the head.' Yet Mavis was aware
that Sybil was ignorant of evil in any form
arising, not from the stress of circumstances,
but from human depravity ; that, for instance,
she would no more have been able to understand
the miseries of Fieldflower Farm under
the despotism of Farmer Wynn than she would
have been able to realise the mode of life
of the Esquimaux. Decorum and refinements
ease, and invariable good manners
had surrounded Sybil all her life. She would
be perfectly at home in a poor man's cabin,
tending the sick wife, washing the dirty children,
preparing the food she had brought,
and diffusing some of her own brightness and

hopefulness over the scene ; but a coarse word
or a rough touch, the frown of a tyrant, the
atmosphere of fear, would have frozen the very
heart within her. So, because Mavis shrank
from the memory of the time at Fieldfiower
Farm all the more sensitively as her thoughts
were now constrained to turn towards her
father, she talked to Sybil only of her life in
London with her uncle and aunt.

The two girls had a happy home, and
although the mode of their life would doubtless
be desolating to the modern young lady, it was
all that these two desired. Without any of her
mother's intellectual power, Sybil Vivian had
in her the beneficent love of books, and her
taste had been cultivated and guided. She
was literally as happy as the day was long.
Her one supreme delight was in the singing
of Miss Warne. Never had experiment been
more successful than that rash-seeming one of
Madame Vivian's, concerning which Madame
dj Rastacq was still sceptical and sarcastic.

According to the calculation of Mavis, she
might hear from her father early in the new
year, supposing no delay to have taken place
in this receiving her letter or in his replying toit.
She had, however, settled with herself that
she would not be disquieted or impatient,
should a longer period elapse, without bringing
her any sign* It had become a great object
with Mavis to be assured of her father's forgiveness
; her instinctive, unconquerable dread
of finding herself again in his power could not
decrease her solicitude on this point. Her
conscience had been thoroughly tried in the
hire of sorrow.

The new year came, and its opening was
celebrated at the Chateau de la Dame Blanche
with all the customary observance. The weather
was dry and cold, and Sybil enjoyed to
the full making her new year's visits to her
humble friends, and taking their ' varennes ' to
them in person. The young English lady was
also well known among the peasantry, and was

almost as frequent a visitor as Sybil herself to
the cottage of Jeanne Penhoel, who had been
Sybil's nurse.

The river had not risen sufficiently in the
early winter to render it necessary that the
planks across the Giant's Stepping Stones
should be removed, and the girls could reach
Jeanne's cottage on foot. They were fond of
frequenting the pass in all seasons, never tiring
of its beauty under every aspect, and they had
not met with any unpleasant adventure there.
Only for Sybil's confidences, Mavis would
hardly have remembered the incident that had
startled her the first time she had explored the
pass. That day was marked in her memory
by one terrible recollection which reduced the
other to a triviality. Sybil had told her what
was the permanent curse of her good Jeanne's
life, and Mavis then knew that the reprobate son
was the man whom she had seen on that occasion.
There had been no farther trouble about
him. It was understood that he hal gone to sea.

Jeanne and her husband presented a peaceful
and prosperous aspect to the two girls
when they paid their New Year's visit to the
cottage. Penhoel was at his work indoors
instead of out ; Mistigris was installed in the
snuggest corner of the ample kitchen ; Jeanne
had a basketful of needlework at her elbow ;
the house was warm, clean, and bright.

If everything could always stay just as it
is, when it is nice and comfortable, how delightful
it would be ! ' said Sybil, gaily, as she
and Mavis were making their tortuous way
through the pass. 'They are so snug and
so happy down there. My dear old man ' (she
meant Penhoel) ' has no pains this winter ;
that wretched Jean has taken himself off for
good ; they need not think about him anymore.'


The girls made their report to Madame
Vivian. She was pleased, but absent-minded.
Mavis thought, though her daughter did not
notice this. At dinner, however, Sybil observed

that her mother looked very tired, and asked
whether she felt ill.

Not at all,' Madame Vivian answered ; ' but
the new year brings me a good deal to do, not
always of so pleasant a kind as your occupation
to-day, my darling. I have been writing business
letters.'

I know,' said Sybil, with a pretty pitying
shake of her glossy black head ; ' to that horrid
M. Keveillon. He is a very nice man, you must
-understand, Marguerite, and a great friend ; but
I don't like him, because I was always sent
away when he came to see mamma on business
in Paris. That is a sound reason, isn't it ? '

Her mother smiled, and said it was the best
of reasons ; but she was still absent-minded,
and she left them unusually early.

On that New Year's night the weather
changed suddenly, and snow fell. Mavis liked
to see the sky at all hours and in all its moods,
and never closed the curtains over the windows
of her room. Being wakeful, she rose at dawn,

and wrapping herself in a cloak, stepped out
on the verandah to watch the struggling hurly-burly
of snowflakes falling into the ravine, and
forming soft masses upon the tree tops and
branches, to be touched into brightness presently
by the morning sun. The spectacle was
a fine one, and the profound stillness added to
ics impressiveness. The cold air came refreshingly
to her. She advanced to the outer edge
of the balcony, and then, glancing along its
extent, she noticed that light was shining from
the windows of Madame Vivian's library. Was
this by an inadvertence of the servants, or
could Madame Vivian, who had acknowledged
unusually early that evening that she was
tired, still be at work there ? She wished that
she might resolve her doubts by walking along
the verandah and looking in at the library
window, but she could not venture to do this ;
and while she stood irresolute the lights disappeared.
Madame Vivian had then been
sitting up until dawn ! With the unpleasant

feeling of having unintentionally played the
spy, Mavis returned to her room. Her last
impression of that New Year's day, which had
come and gone with so much external peacefulness,
was that her own was not the only
heart full of trouble, for which its conventional
greetings and good wishes had no meaning, and
held no promise.

Upon this there ensued a period of such
quietude and monotony, as, combined with the
influence of her own youth, her sweet and
patient disposition, and the kindness with which
she was treated by Madame Vivian and Sybil,
could not fail to do her wounded spirit good.
She heard nothing of her father ; no sign was
made to her from the past of her life. She, in
common with the others, heard of the progress
of the war  but it interested her not. She
never spoke of it, and the intelligence that
came to the Chateau de la Dame Blanche was
chiefly on the French side, and conveyed by
Madame de Rastacq.

The April days once more boasted their
uncertain glory ' ; just one year had elapsed
since Jack Bassett and Mavis Wynn had
plighted the troth that was so soon broken
by the stroke of fate, but would be kept forever
in Mavis's heart. Every day was an anniversary
to the bereaved girl. On one of those
April days she received a letter from Jane
Price. The sight of the handwriting gave hera
thrill of pleasure. She had not consciously
missed it, in the great loss and laying waste,
but when she saw it she was glad. She was
glad, too, of the news that the letter brought
her. Jane Price was going to be married
very soon to a respectable man whom she
had known for a long time, and they were
going out to Canada, where George Jackson
intended to buy land, and turn farmer on his
own account. Jane Price liked the prospect
very much, but would like it still better if she
knew any one at all in the strange country of
Canada. They were to settle near Ottawa,

and Mavis, she knew, had a cousin settled on a
farm ' somewhere thereabouts Would Mavis
write to her cousin on behalf of Jane and her
husband ? This was the chief purport of the
letter ; but there was a second question. Mavis
had left in Jane's charge a large trunk, containing
her books and music, with other small
possessions, which had been previously destined
to be sent on board the ' British Queen.'
When it was arranged that Mavis was to face
her new destiny under a new name, it had
been judged expedient that she should take
nothing to London that might furnish a clue to
her identity. It was Jane who had urged this
most strongly ; Jane, whose imagination had
been deeply impressed by that paternal curse
of which Mavis knew nothing, and who shrank
with the horror it inspired from the idea of his
daughter's again falling into Wynn's power.
She now asked Mavis for instructions as to
what was to be done with this trunk.

To the first part of Jane's letter Mavis

found it easy to reply. She had only to express
her pleasure at her friend's prospects,
and to enclose a note for her cousin, Matthew
Jeffrey, at the Pines Farm, near Ottawa,
Canada. She had heard nothing of him for a
long time ; but he would be kind to friends of
hers for the sake of his father and mother. It
was over the second point that Mavis hesitated,
and fell to considering. And now there occurred
in the history of her life a tiu-king of
the scale of chance by just a hair. She had not
given up the expectation of hearing from her
father, or that of having to go to Australia.
So, with the intention of seeing her old home
once more, it occurred to her that it might be
well to instruct Jane to send the trunk to
Fieldflower Farm, with a request from herself
that it might be kept until Mavis should apply
for it. Had Mavis acted on this idea, Mr.
Eeckitts would speedily have had in his hands
the key to the enigma in which Squire Bassett
and his son were so deeply interested. Mavis,

however, decided in favour of the simpler expedient
of having the trunk warehoused at
Liverpool.

After this there was no break in the even
tenor of the quiet time. Mouth succeeded to
month, but no word from her father readied
Mavis. She was forced to recognise that he
was implacable : that she might have to live
all her days without his forgiveness ; and the
knowledge pained her sorely. The bonds of
friendship between herself and Madame Vivian
were drawn more and more close with time ;
while Sybil came to regard her as an elder
sister. Visitors to the Chateau, in the autumn
of that year, were more than usually numerous.
Among those visitors was Mr. Lansdell, who
chanced to be a friend of Madame Vivian,
and had more than once previously taken
Brittany in the course of Ins far-and-wide
meandering.'

In the outer world, a.d. 1855 had a stirring
history. In September, Sebastopol was taken.

VOL. in. H

The beginnings of the end of the war had come.
At the Chateau de Eastacq the close of that
year was a time of rejoicing ; for Eene was
coming home, bringing his laurels with him.
He had sailed for France with General Vino,
in December. Early in the new year his
mother might look for his coming.

At the Chateau de la Dame Blanche, a.d.
1855 had passed in the stillness of calm that
precedes storm.

CHAPTER Xxii.

M. LE CAPITAINE.

The presence of Eene de Eastacq must under
any circumstances have been a pleasant interruption
to the monotony of life in the country.
It would be difficult to imagine a scene \\\
Which his brightness, readiness, briskness, and
unflagging power of enjoyment would not have
been welcome. In person Rene bore no resemblance
to his mother. He was not tall, and
his light figure was slender and spare, but his
aspect was strikingly bold and manly. Alertness
and activity were expressed in his every
movement ; a quick and undaunted spirit
looked out of his piercing light blue eyes 
eyes such as oftener are seen among the men
of the Basque provinces  eyes that have black

H 2

fringes and look straight at the sun like the
eagle's. His features were clean cut, and their
expression was determined, but not ungentle.
His short, curly hair was raven black, and his
clear but dark complexion lent peculiar effect
to the uncommon shape, colour, and beauty of
the eyes. It was not difficult  looking at his
sinewy upright form, well shaped alert head,
and handsome features, as he stood among his
mother's guests in the refined and luxurious
quiet of his home  to behold with one's mind's
eye Eene de Eastacq as he ' rushed by, with
the light of battle in his face,' while the fight
raged at Inkerman. With what warmth he
was greeted on his return to his home, after
the perils he had passed and the honour he had
won, it is unnecessary to say ; his mother's
pride and joy it would be impossible to depict.
The influence of those feelings told upon
Madame de Eastacq to her advantage. They
were so genuine and so deep, that the somewhat
cold polish of her manners, and the evenness

that conveyed artificiality to observant
persons, vanished before them.

While he was very well satisfied with himself,
and thoroughly Gallic in his exultation
over the achievements of the French Army,
there was nothing of the braggart about Eene
de Eastacq ; his national vanity was excusable ;
his personal vanity was not obtrusive. Eene
would indeed have been a far less pleasant
fellow if he had not been in perpetual good
humour with himself. But, as his good humour
was not of a vulgar or inconsiderate kind, and
as it led him to wish to keep other people in
good humour with themselves also, it was not
objectionable.

If experiences could be compared, we
should probably find that the devotedness of
French sons to their mothers is as much exaggerated
in novels and plays, and by our notion
of it, as the unfaithfulness of French husbands
and wives to their marriage vows. It cannot,
however, be denied that the demeanour of

Frenchmen to their mothers is, generally speaking,
pleasant to contemplate.

The demeanour of Eene de Eastacq to his
mother was especially pleasant. It was genuinely
affectionate, without ' pose,' and it conveyed
a correct impression that he was always
glad to be with her, and thoroughly shared her
life and its interests. This ' companionship,'
with the unaffected touch of deference that is
of the best French filial manner, was observed
by Mavis as a curious and interesting novelty.

Under the influence of Eene's return,
Madame de Eastacq's graciousness extended
itself to Miss Warne, to whom she had not
previously made any advance beyond that
strictly defined politeness which she could not
have neglected for her own sake. But now,
even the ' oiseau bleu ' came in for sprinklings
of Madame de Eastacq's good humour and
content.

She actually deigned to ask Miss Warne
whether she did not think Eene very handsome ?

and whether he was Hke what she had expected?
The latter question was difficult to
answer, for in truth Mavis had not formed any
expectations respecting Madame de Eastacq's
son and hero ; but she made just such a reply
to the former as she might have made had she
been bent on propitiating the questioner :

M. le Capitaine is indeed handsome,' she
said ; ' but one would not think at first of anything
in his face except its high courage.'

And then the attention of Mavis wavered,
and her interest in the conversation between
Madame Vivian and Madame de Eastacq flagged,
because her thoughts went back to the young
French officer who had talked so frankly to
Jack about his mother. She wished she had
learned the name of her dead lover's friend, so
that she might have asked Eene whether lie
also had known him, and whether lie lead survived
the war.

The story of his wound and his rescue was
an old story before Eene came home. The

mother doubtless said to the son what she had
to say on the subject ; but it was hardly touched
upon in general conversation, and if Madame
Vivian happened to hear that the English friend
to whom Eeue owed his life would probably
pay Eene's mother a visit, when he returned
from a voyage he had been making for the restoration
of his health, she gave no heed to the
circumstance. The inmates of the Chateau de
Eastacq and those of the Chateau de la Dame
Blanche met frequently during the liberal leave
granted to Eene. On many occasions the revelation
that Jack Bassett was not dead, but
living, and therefore searching for her, must
have been within touch of Mavis's hand. A
word, a chance reference, something light as air,
might in an instant have changed the face of
the world, and her whole fate, for Mavis. But
the word was never said, the reference was
never made. In utter ignorance she stood
beside the source of knowledge and relief. She
and Sybil passed the open door of Eene's

smoking-room at the Chateau de Kastacq one
day, and the two girls peeped in with shy-curiosity.
Among gloves, keys, loose money,
and other odds and ends scattered upon a
table, were two or three letters. If Mavis
had but gone forward into the room she would
have recognised Jack Bassett's square and heavy
hand Wth ting on the cover of one of these. But
it was not to be. Mavis was to pass ' k cote du
bonheur,' even an Evangeline, in her long search
for her living lover, passed so near, so pitilessly
far, that the poet exclaims in an agony of compassion
: 

Angel of God was there none to awake the slumbering
maiden !

Not for long after her son's return did
Madame de Kastacq allow her cherished design
to slumber. She was uncomfortably aware that
she could not hope to have the negotiation for
which she was preparing carried out with such
strict adherence to ' les convenances ' as she
had hitherto been able to maintain on all the

great occasions of life ; but she resolved that
the irregularities should be few, and not of a
nature to imperil the success of her project.

It mia;ht have occurred to an English
mother, forming a similar plan under the actual
circumstances, that the young man ' en dis-possibility
' might fall in love with the wrong
girl ; but Madame de Eastacq would not have
been disturbed by such a contingency. It was
not love, but marriage, that was in question ; in
her son's case she was incapable of theoretically
confounding the two. They had been kept
practically apart in her own, and the brief union
so long ago dissolved by her husband's death
had been equally uninteresting and respectable.

That Eene would meet and associate with
Sybil Vivian on terms of much greater ease
and freedom than she regarded as desirable,
Madame de Eastacq knew to be inevitable, but
she also had to take account of the deplorable
element of choice in the girl's case. Who
could doubt that she would find Eene charming

? Her previous impressions were all in his
favour, and he was coming back to strengthen
them with the added prestige of distinguished
gallantry and honourable mention.

The success of an enterprise is a pleasant
thing to witness (unless one happens particularly
to dislike the individual who achieves it), and it
is Likewise agreeable to record. The enterprise
of Madame de Eastacq met with all the success
which it would have deserved had its motives
been of a higher order. The unconsciousness
of Madame Vivian that her friend entertained
any project of the sort was as complete as if she
had never been cognisant of a plot in real life,
or had never woven one in fiction. So cordial
and gracious was her reception of Eene when,
three days after his arrival, he came with his
mother to the Chateau de la Dame Blanche, that
Madame Vivian made more impression on him
than either of the two girls. When his mother
talked about their visit, and questioned him
closely as to what he thought of Sybil since she

had completely grown up, lie answered briefly,
and reverted to the charming manners and intelligent
conversation of Madame Vivian. She
was too well bred to force her guest to ' talk
shop,' and the war was but briefly discussed ;
but Bene de Eastacq found that she had closely
studied its history, while his mother's knowledge
on the subject of the Crimea extended to but
little beyond the fact that he had been there.

The dark-eyed girl who hung so prettily
about his mother, and had a sisterly bearing towards
the grave young English lady, was much
better looking than when he had previously
seen her and complacently pronounced her ' tres
bien.' He had not thought much about his
mother's plan of ' marrying ' him to Sybil, and
she was too prudent to say anything more on
the subject until after the young people had
renewed their acquaintance. It never occurred
to Madame Vivian to observe her daughter on
this occasion,. and her pride and delicacy would
have been deeply hurt had she known that Sybil

was the object of close scrutiny by Madame de
East estrange

to say, Mavis, who of the whole
party had the least personal knowledge of the
ways of the world and the women of it,
observed this scrutiny, and had its meaning
revealed to her on that first occasion as if by a
lightning-flash. But, although she discerned
the fact, she was far from interpreting it aright.
Mavis had not been unconscious of Madame de
Eastacq's covert antagonism to her, and while
she had been personally indifferent to it, she
certainly had not liked Madame de Eastacq.
Now she felt ashamed of herself. The woman
who so truly appreciated Sybil's qualities and
charms as to desire that lie should become
the wife of her only son, himself such an
object of pride, must be a much higher-minded
person than she had hitherto taken Madame
de Eastacq to be. It was her own foolish
vanity that had created the prejudice iu lier
mind ; she had seen Madame de Eastacq with

jaundiced eyes, just because she herself had
not found favour in that lady's sight. The
idea of Sybil's ' dot ' had not, it is hardly necessary
to say, occurred to Mavis.

Being, from the very nature of things, in
the position of a looker-on, Mavis was also
quick to see that Sybil was from the first
favourably impressed by Eene de Eastacq.
Her own brief spring of love was for ever in
her memory, and she could recognise the
coming of a similar beauty, music, gladness,
and fair hope into the Hfe of another. About
Eene she did not feel so sure. This was the
first time she had ever met a Frenchman in
society, and she had no knowledge of the code
of manners that demanded restraint and formality
towards the two girls which he laid
aside in Madame Vivian's case ; yet a quick
attentiveness, and an alert interest in what Sybil
said and did, distinguished Eene's manner to
her from his manner to Mavis.

The mutual falling in love of a young man

and a girl is the commonest of occurrences ;
but it is also one that never altogether fails to
be interesting, for the world is composed of
persons who are in love at the present moment,
have been in love in the past, or expect to be
in love in the future. Thus the great human
bond makes itself felt. There is, however,
nothing to be said about this commonest of
occurrences that we cannot all put in much
better form in our thoughts than any writer
can put it for us, whether the source we draw
upon be memory, actuality, or expectation.
suffice it, then, to say that the project formed
by Madame de East acq took a development
beyond her design. Not only did Eene mean
to marry Madame Vivian's daughter, but he
readily won her heart by the way of exchange.
The comic side of the situation was, that
Rene did not wish his mother to make the discovery
that he was soundly and seriously in love
with Sybil Vivian. He knew she would not
like it ; that she would regard it as unnecessary,

and not quite correct ; but be had formed
a plan for himself, and he meant to carry it
out, without reference to her, or to the results
of her private inquiry into Madame Vivian's
money matters. He also wished to avoid
annoying his mother ; it would be highly improper
to do that, especially on a subject on
which perfect accord between them was of so
much moment. He intended dexterously to
combine the French way of conducting a matrimonial
negotiation, which she preferred, with
the English way, to which he was determined
to resort. In other words, he resolved to ask
Sybil, in a delightful tete-astute., to become his
wife, and to request his mother to make the
formal ' demande en manage ' to hers, after he
had secured Sybil's assent.

It argued no unpardonable conceit on
Eene's part that he did not feel any great
uncertainty or apprehension as to what Sybil
would say to him. He could not pretend to
the pain and tremor? of the tender passion.

AlthoiTgli no more innocent and spotlessly
modest maiden than Sybil Vivian ever gave her
heart away, her childlike simplicity, and the
fearless frankness that her mother's method
with her had encouraged, rendered her mood
of mind plain to any interested observer.

Her mother had not so much opportunity
of observation as Mavis, for she rarely left
home, while the two girls were frequent visitors
to the Chateau de Eastacq ; but Madame Vivian
would in any case have fallen into the error
common to all mothers. She would have
failed to see that her daughter was no longer
a child, but a woman, until long after everyone
else was aware of that fact.

It was, however, neither at the Chateau de
Eastacq, nor at her own home, that Sybil
Vivian heard Eene's love tale. On a fine day
in the early spring, Sybil and Mavis set out
soon after breakfast to walk through the pass
to Jeanne Penhoel's cottage. Sybil carried a
little basket of dainties, such as she delighted

VOL. III. I

in taking to the crippled basket-maker, whom
she called her ' foster-father.' Mavis carried a
roll of infant's clothing, to be bestowed upon a
new-born combatant in the battle of life, who
had just seen the day in a house at the top of
the steep road leading to the village. The girls
found all as usual at the cottage. Jeanne was
away, helping with the neighbouring newcomer.
Penhoel was at work in the tidy
kitchen, with Mistigris at his elbow, occasionally
blinking at the sunshine, as though he were
considering that if this kind of thing were
going to last, there might be something to say
for out-of-doors in preference to the fireside.
Mavis went on up the steep road on her errand,
but Sybil stayed with Penhoel.

She had unpacked her basket, made a tour
of inspection in the house, given Babette, busy
in the ' basse cour,' a smiling greeting, tried todo
a little bit of basket-plaiting as usual, and
made her customary merry failure of the
attempt  all to the delight of Penhoel, who fully

shared Ins wife's love for her uurslinir  jnd
was telling him how gay they had recently
been at the Chateau de Eastacq, when a step)
outside, and a knock at the door, checked her
speech.

Somebody who does not know the trick ot
the latch,' said Penhoel, putting out his hand for
his crutches.

Don't stir ; I will open the door,' said
Sybil, and the next moment admitted Eene de
Kastacq.

My mother is at the Chateau.' he said.
 Gregoire told me you and Miss Warne had
come here. I ventured to follow you, and
offer my escort back. I hope I am not presumptuous.'


He saw her answer in her face much more
plainly than he heard it in her voice, for she
made only an indistinct reply. It contented
him, however, and ho entered the kitchen,
went up to Penhoel's bench, introduced himself
With courteous gaiety, and presently was pro

2

satiating Mistigris, and successfully pretending
unconsciousness of Sybil's blushing embarrassment,
while it was causing him supreme satisfaction.


Eene had a happy faculty for talking to
people on their own particular subjects, and
getting the best of what they knew out of
them. With much innocent admiration Sybil
listened to his pleasant talk with Penhoel about
basket making and sailor life, and observed his
interest in the picturesque cottage.

Miss Warne is not with you ? ' he said,
turning to her at length.

Sybil explained, and then Eene proposed
that they should go in search of her friend.
Sybil agreed, and they left Penhoel, saying they
would return presently with Miss Warne. As
the door closed behind them, the basket-maker
resumed his work. His face was grave, as he
said to himself :  ' She has found her fate.
May the good God make it a fortunate one ! '

Eene and Sybil did not take the steep road

leading to the village. They walked about the
little shelving plateau, and down to the water's
edge ; they looked at the grand mass of rock
that formed the shelter of the cottage, and at the
sweeping curve of the little bay ; they turned
the shoulder of the great rock, and stepped out
upon the broad platform that jutted from its
face, with the water flowing close beneath it
to the foaming confusion farther down. The '
scene was wild, majestic, and solitary ; the
cottage was hidden from their sight ; in the
keen air was the odour of the early spring ;
the pale blue sky looked awfully vast and
distant.

We  we have lost our way, I think,' said
Sybil, with a nervous smile and a vivid blush ;
this is not the hill road.'

No, it is not ; yet we have not lost our
way. I think you guess why I have seized
this opportunity, and led you here ; and what
it is I am going to ask of you.'

Agitated, frightened, and happy, the girl,

who had not only never listened to a lover's
suit, but to whom the ordinary language of
compliment, and the homage of men to youth
and beauty, were absolutely unknown, heard
Eene tell her that he loved her, and ventured
to woo her thus, after the fashion of her country,
not of his. So great was her agitation,
that he was at first uncertain of his success, but
he soon interpreted aright her tears and blushes,
and knew that his suit was won.

Oh, what will mamma say ? ' was the first
spontaneous utterance of Sybil, after she had
been coaxed into uttering in broken words the
promise that sealed her lover's triumph.

I hope she will be pleased ; at least she
cannot be surprised. My mother is with her
now, and only waits my assurance that I am
blessed with your consent to ask your mother's.'

Then she  then Madame de Eastacq
knows  ? ' faltered Sybil.

An involuntary smile crossed Eene's face.
His own share in the matter was quite genuine

'110

K

L*iV.





wil

I ii i

V>!l:I:

SyhV arid Rene.

and honest ; but he was fully conscious of the
transactions nature of his mother's.

She knows, and approves.

How good of her ! She has always been so
kind to me. I have been so happy with her.
But I must speak to my mother myself, first.
I must be sure that she too will be glad of  of
this.'

It shall be exactly as you please. I venture
to think that your mother regards me
favourably, and will not be displeased. When
will you speak to her ? '

To-night, when the people who dine with
us have gone away. I always bid her goodnight
in her own study. You have not seen
that room  strangers never enter it. But
you  that will be different.' She said this
hesitating very prettily, and with a beautiful
blush.

And you will ask her to see my mother
on the subject, some time tomorrow?'

Sybil assented to this. Eene felt a little

doubtful as to how his mother would take so
very unusual  indeed unheard-of  a method
of proceeding, but he acknowledged to himself
that there was a great deal to be said for the
English notion that love ought to precede
marriage. It was very pleasant when acted
on. So sincerely was he in love with Sybil
Vivian, that he assured himself if he had not
been in love with her he would have resisted
his mother's project.

They remained some time longer upon the
platform of the Devil's Eock, hearing and
speaking those things which, perhaps, a man
does not wholly forget in after life, but which
a woman, whatever may come with the future,
remembers always. Mavis, coming down the
steep road towards the cottage, saw Eene de
Eastacq advancing to meet her, while Sybil sat
on the bench under the penthouse where
Penhoel worked in the summer. The tone of
Eene's voice as he greeted her, and the light in
his eyes, apprised Mavis that something had

happened ; when she came near enough to see
Sybil's face she knew what it was.

*******

The evening passed away without embarrassment
to the conditionally engaged lover?,
partly because it was not Rene de Eastacq's
way to be embarrassed under any circumstances,
and partly because Mavis engrossed the attention
of the whole party by her singing. Sybil
had to occupy her customary place by the side
of Madame de Eastacq, and listened to the
music that she loved with her usual absorbed
pleasure.

It was Mavis only in whose demeanour
anything exceptional might have been discerned.
An unaccustomed tinge of colour
suffused her fair cheek, and in her voice there
was a thrilling sweetness that went to all hearts
in that little company. It was not all pain,
that awakening of the memory of her own brief
hour of hope and joy, before the love that had
not died, and could never die, had ceased to bea

thing terrestrial ; nor was there the least
touch of envy in it. Only, as she sang, and
her glance moved from the dark bright face of
the lover, who had come safe home from the
blood-stained land that held Jack's grave, to
the fair, rather pensive, face of the girl before
whom life lay smiling, for whom it had never
worn aught but smiles  the actual scene faded,
the river ran again, and the wind blew, and
in her ears was the sound of a voice that was
still.

Mavis wondered whether Sybil would say
anything to her of what had occurred, when
she came to her room after leaving her mother,
for that last little moment, which had become
an established institution. With what a true
heart, and never a pang of envy in all its
thrills of remembrance, she would share the
joy of the friend, who, without a notion of her
own ministry, had helped and healed her by
gentle kindness.

The guests at the Chateau de la Dame
Blanche that day were neighbours ; late hours
were not customary, and it was only a little
after the time which Sybil and her mother
usually passed together in Madame Vivian's
library that they found themselves alone, and
Sybil was free to speak. The interview was a
prolonged one, and not quite satisfactory to
Sybil. Nothing could exceed her mother's
tenderness, and the fulness of its expression ;
nor did she say one word in disparagement of
Eene, or of any objection on her own part;
but two things surprised and disquieted Sybil.
The first was her mother's entire unpreparedness
for any such revelation ; the difficulty with
which she seemed to realise that her child was
a woman, with a new interest, fresh hopes, and
a personal purpose in life ; the second was a
kind of perplexity in Madame Vivian's look and
manner which was totally unlike her. Indecision
was absolutely strange to Madam Vivian ; yet
she would not decide now. She hung over her

child with the fondest caresses, but she would
not say the words Sybil wanted to hear. She
would not tell her that Eene de Eastacq should
have her consent on the morrow, that she would
receive his mother with the full intention of
agreeing to the proposal that he had forestalled ;
she would only say that many things had to be
considered, and she must have time. With the
assurance that no object was so dear to her
mother as her happiness, and also that no effort
should be wanting to secure it, Sybil was
obliged to be satisfied. Madame Vivian dismissed
her at length, and Sybil was glad that
the lateness of the hour made it unreasonable
for her to disturb Mavis, for she was feeling,
for the first time in her life, the oppression of a
vague fear  that touch of suspense which
makes solitude the one thing desirable. This,
too, on the day that had brought her the great
and wonderful happiness of her lover's avowal
of his love, and had also, notwithstanding that
perplexity which was so unlike Madame Vivian,

carried to her, with every utterance of her
mother's, however unsatisfactory, the assurance
that her child was infinitely precious to her.

Madame Vivian remained deep in thought
after Sybil left her. Her brows were knitted,
her hands were pressed together, on the writing-table
before her. Presently, slow tears rolled
down her cheeks, and this seemed to arouse her.
She rose and rang the bell that summoned
Gregoire.

The old man came quickly ; a summons at
that hour was unusual ; but his mistress reassured
him. She directed him to send a man
on horseback, in the morning, to the ' presbyters
' with a letter for the Abbe Fix. The man
would bring back an answer, and it was essential
that she should have it before the house was
astir. Gregoire was not to wait for the letter ;
he would find it on her table in the morning.

That letter was difficult to write. The
practised pen of Madame Vivian made little
way with it in much time. When at length she

laid it ready for Gregoire, she turned away with
a sigh of weariness. Amid the thoughts that
held her eyes waking, the roost distinct was
this : ' How could I, living in this country, fail
lo foresee that what has happened would be
sure to happen ; that the ruin of my own life
meant at least the risk of ruin to my child's ? '

Early next morning the Cure's answer to
her letter was placed in Madame Vivian's hands.
It announced a visit from the waiter in the
course of the day, with these words in addition :

The interview cannot be postponed. It is
reasonable that nothing should be decided in a
hurry, and by gaining time you may be able to
improve the aspect of affairs. This is an entirely
new contingency, and may be so represented
in another quarter. The production of
papers is just ground for delay.'

CHAPTEE XXVII.

Australia FELIX.

The land-locked double bay of Port Philip,
with its famous Heads, its expanse of bright
water, forty miles across, and its low-lying,
rich coasts, must always have been a welcome
spectacle to the incomer from the Southern
seas. In the early time of the Colony of
Victoria, when it was called the Port Philip
District, and for several years later, the aspect
of the country on either side of the bay was
very different from that which it now presents.
Where on the east and west pleasant townships
have sprung up, were then lightly-timbered,
undulating grassy plains, with huts
scattered here and there. The scene was no
more like what it now is, than the country

beyond Geelong is like the grassy waste into
which Flinders struck, when he started in April
1802 on his adventurous walk to Station Peak.
At the period to which this story has briefly
to refer, the face, the fate, and the future of
the Colony had already been transformed by
the discovery of gold. The first wonder,
romance, and hardship, the first flushes of
success and fluctuations of fortune, were over.
The first ebullitions of human passion let loose
on that which at once excites and feeds it were
past ; the rush and fever had become a settled
industry ; but the social life of the Colony had
not assumed the importance and refinement
which have long distinguished it. As the great
ships of these days pass swiftly through the
waters of Hobson's Bay  once so lonely, and
then suddenly invaded by the fleets of the gold-seeking
world  a panorama of wealth and
beauty, which it is hard to believe is the
product of so trifling a tale of years, is unrolled
before the eyes of the traveller. The

country residences that dot the coast-Une ; the
suburbs of Melbourne, forming whole districts
of picturesque villas, backed by rich lands and
the ' ever-flowing ' river, have multiplied wonderfully
since the good ship ' Caradoc ' entered
Hobson's Bay after a prosperous voyage from
Liverpool, and her passengers beheld the New
World bathed in golden sunshine beneath the
deep blue Australasian sky.

It was the end of autumn at the other side
of the world. At the Antipodes it wanted
but a few weeks of Midsummer  otherwise
Christmas. The new arrivals had come to the
Colony at a crisis in its history ; the old order,
or disorder, was passing away ; the new Constitution
was about to be proclaimed. The
era of self-government ' was dawning. With
its wildness and its rowdyism, many of the picturesque
and grotesque features of gold-digging
life were vanishing. The hurly-burly was
almost done ; the fast and furious battle had
been lost and won many times by thousands of

VOL. III. K

toilers and gamblers. The significant Ballarat
riot of the previous year had produced results
on which it would be unwise for mobs to
speculate, or historians to dwell. The poet,
the romance writer, and the general observer,
would naturally feel less interest in the prosperous
years that followed the reconstitution of
the gold-fields, and the development of political
action in Australia  a phenomenon as remarkable
as the new and gigantic industry itself 
than in the preceding time of ' storm and stress.'
Nevertheless, those were wonderful years in
which the country was forced forward with
leaps and bounds like those of its own wild
creatures. The youngest son of Time plunged
his hands deep into the parental treasury,
and, with exultant eagerness, drew forth his
good things. In 1855 he was about to make
a great haul. In less than three years later,
writes Mr. Westgarth, the historian of Victoria,
the two great Colonies of the mainland stood
upon as democratic a platform as either ancient

or modern times have known. The Ballot, No
Property Qualification, Approximately Equal
Electoral Districts, and Manhood Suffrage,
are now the Great Charter of Australian
politics.'

The * Caradoc ' carried a passenger quite
capable of the interest that so critical a stage
in the history of a country, strange to him in
everything except the speaking of his native
tongue, was calculated to excite. He had
thought much during his voyage of the things
that he should see and learn in the far land,
and he intended, when that which he came todo
had been accomplished, to use the short
time he should have to pass in the Colony to
advantage.

Jack Bassett had passed his days at sea, not
in tedium  a fixed purpose saves from that 
but with the concentrated yet disturbing sense
of waiting. There were only the ordinary
incidents and humours of life on shipboard
to occupy him externally. No adventures

k2

befell the 'Caradoc' His companions were
mostly men, young like himself, but, unlike
him, going to seek their fortune on the Antipodean
Tom Tiddler's ground. To these
young men Jack was an object of no small
interest, and the Captain and doctor of the
Caradoc ' especially affected his society. His
health improved during the voyage, and with
every day his spirits became lighter ; so that
when the ' Caradoc ' passed through the famous
Heads, Jack's mood was in harmony with the
brightness of the scene. When he stepped
from the boat that landed him at Partridge,
with all that lapse of time and those awful
watery wastes between him and home, he was
no longer so unlike the gay and gallant youth
whom the gaze of Mavis had followed, on an
April day now far away in the past. He
carried his right arm in a sling, it is true, but
his gait was firm and agile, and his blue eyes
were once more bright. When he should
have found Mavis, bis blue eyes would laugh

as they had laughed, when he looked at her
in the boat on their own river at home.

The ' Caradoc ' landed her passengers too
late for Jack to reach Melbourne that day with
any chance of getting an enquiry answered at
the post-office. He went with some of his
fellow-travellers to a public-house near the
landing-place, and, escaping with difficulty
from the festive proceedings incident to the
occasion, ' waited for day.'

It was late before Jack slept, but it was
early when he awoke and looked out upon
the strangle scene before him. It had no
power to arrest his thoughts, or turn them
from their often-travelled track. How soon
should he find Mavis .? where ? how . What
would be the explanation of her silence? If
it proved to be the arbitrary injunction of her
father, what should he do then? These questions
were about to be answered now ; soon
they would trouble him no more ; but never
had they put themselves to Jack with such

power to shake his composure as they did
when on the brink of solution. Mavis was
always before the eyes of her constant lover ;
never for a moment had she faded to that
shadowy shape which the long absent-living
will sometimes assume together with the dead;
never for a moment had he admitted that she
might be either no longer living, or no longer
his. Now she seemed to be newly revealed
to him. Her eyes shone on him ; her smile
beamed on him ; the soft touch of her hand,
so long unfelt, lingered on his own ; the tones
of her voice, with its fashion of quiet speech,
long unheard, came to his ear. He should see
her soon  it might be that very day. This
was no dream ! No ! the months that were
gone had been a lapse of dreams, and this was
the waking.

Jack ate his breakfast, ascertained how he
was to find the post-office, hired a horse for
the day, and had made a good bit of his way
along the flat, sandy road to Melbourne before

his fellow-travellers left their beds. It was
long since Jack had been on horseback, and
the unwonted exercise, the friendly relations
that immediately established themselves between
the man and the horse, the delightful air, and
the novelty of the scene, combined to exhilarate
him. He might have pitied any other
person for being so glad while still in uncertainty,
but he could not pity himself.
Health and youth seemed to have come back
to him in their fulness.

Wherever there is a street there will be a
street-boy. An opportune urchin was ready
to hold the horse, when Jack reached the plain
building that was afterwards replaced by the
present superb post-office. Jack found no
difficulty in getting his question answered.
Mr. Lewis Wynn was a well-known person
in Melbourne ; he might be found either at
his store in Burke Street, or at his country-house.
With a quick-beating heart, and eyes
that took no heed of the objects he passed,

Jack rode off to the first of these places, and
found that Mr. Lewis Wynn's store was, as he
afterwards described it, an emporium of everything.


The day was yet young, but business was
already brisk, and it was some time before
Jack could secure the attention of one of the
salesmen busily dispensing ' notions ' of the
most varied and incongruous description, to
customers whose attire revealed even to Jack's
unaccustomed eyes the digger or the station-hand.
He pushed his way towards the end of
a counter where a rough kind of cashier's desk
was railed off, and took his place by the side
of a young man, with a dark-complexioned,
intelligent face, who was paying for a roll of
canvas and a bag of nails in coin counted out
of a leather pouch On the completion of this
transaction, Jack enquired of the harassed and
heated individual behind the desk whether Mr.
Lewis Wynn was ' in town.' He had already
come to the conclusion that the proprietor of

this evidently flourishing establishment was not
present : no man in the store was over thirty.
The purchaser of the canvas and the nails had
already glanced curiously at the young Englishman,
whose soldierly air, careful dress, and
general bearing, denoted that he had nothing
in common with the surrounding scene. He
now took upon himself to answer Jack's question
:

Mr. Wynn is not in town. I have just
come in from his place.' The speaker's tone
was not rough, though his calling seemed to be
so ; he wore a kind of waggoner's frock, with
a leathern belt, high boots, a broad-leaved felt
hat, a red neckerchief tied in a sailor's knot.

Did you want to see him to-day ? He
isn't coming in.'

This was a first check, and Jack's highly-strung
nerves felt it. He thanked his informant,
adding that he did wish to see Mr. Wynn
that day, and should ride out to his country
house at once. He then made his way out of

the store, the dark young man accompanying
him to the street, and giving him clear instructions
for the finding of Wynn's house.

I wonder who he is,' said the dark young
man to himself, as Jack rode off, leaving the
street-boy grinning with satisfaction over so
good a morning's job, ' and what he's come todo
here. Doesn't look much like digging or
teaming, even if he wasn't disabled.'

Mr. Lewis Wynn's country residence was
situated at a short distance from Melbourne, ina
suburban neighbourhood now covered with
handsome villas, whose fortunate owners enjoy
all that is involved in sitting actually as well as
metaphorically under their own vine and fig tree.
The house, a roomy, one-storied structure of
stuccoed brick, with a verandah on all sides of
it, stood out from the background of blue gum
and wattle trees, in a walled enclosure, and
approached from a wide, low entrance-gate, by
a broad pathway bordered on either side with
brownish turf, interspersed with flower-beds.

Any visitor would have discerned Mr. Lewis
Wynn's tastes at a glance, for the small but
well laid-out grounds of his dwelling were
devoted to gardening, chiefly of an exotic kind.
The indigenous ferns, cacti, and other growths
were, however, well represented, and a number
of bird-perches in the verandah and among the
lower-beds were occupied by a noisy company
of piping-crows, parrakeets, and cockatoos.
This suburban abode of a prosperous
trader looked very bright, peaceful, and happy
in the beautiful and beneficent sunshine of an
Australian summer day, when Jack Bassett
rode up to the entrance of Yarra Lodge. The
gate lay hospitably open ; there was no one inside.
The visitor walked his horse slowly ups
the short avenue to the house-door, which lay
as widely open as the gate.

The front of the house faced him ; he had
thought Mavis might be there. What if in a
moment more he should see her, coming outwith
that light tread he knew so well, an that

smile for which his heart had ached with longing
all this weary time, to greet the lover who
had come to her from the other side of the
world ! His eyes were dim, and there was a
ringing in his ears ; but, for all the whirl, the
same knowledge was in his mind that had
always been there. Great would be the joy of
Mavis, but little her surprise. Let the cause
of her silence be what it might, she knew that
he would seek and find her.

The verandah was empty. The sunny stillness
was broken only by the shrill screams of
two black cockatoos, placed like supporters on
either side of the doorway, and apparently unfriendly
to strangers. Jack dismounted, and,
having thrown his horse's bridle over his arm,
was looking for a bell handle, when an elderly
gentleman, with a partially bald, grey head,
and a mild countenance, made his appearance,
coming from the right side of the hall. He
wore a loose suit of spotless, white linen, and
he carried carefully in both hands a pannikin

containing warm bread-and-milk. He was
gently blowing on the contents of the pannikin,
when he caught sight of the stranger in the
doorway, and, desisting with a start, stood
looking in surprise at Jack.

I beg your pardon,' said Jack ;  I could
not find the bell, and there was nobody about
May I ask if I address Mr. Wynn ? '

That is my name, sir. Walk in, if you
please. Oh, there's the horse.'

He set the pannikin down on the floor and
disappeared, but returned in a moment accompanied
by a smart-looking boy, who took the
bridle from Jack. Casting a regretful look at
the pannikin, Mr. Wynn ushered his unknown
visitor into the house, amid the angry screams
of the birds, whose breakfast was postponed on
account of this human intruder. Something
quaint and quiet in Mr. Wynn's look and
manner struck Jack, even in that moment of
suspense, by its curious unlikeness to the look
and manner of Mavis's father.

Mr. Wynn ushered his visitor into a good-sized
parlour, well but plainly furnished. Jack
saw with a glance that there was no trace of
feminine occupation in this room. His host's
invitation to him to be seated was welcome.
He drew his breath with difficulty as he replied
to Mr. Wynn's plain question 

What is your business with me, sir ? ' 

My name is Bassett. I come from Cheshire.
Your brother knows me well, and I suppose
you now know what has brought me to Melbourne
and to your house.'

No sign of any such knowledge appeared in
Mr. Lewis Wynn's face.

Of course I know the name of Bassett, and
I am proud to welcome to my house any one
who bears it. I presume you are the Squire's
son . ' Jack nodded assent. ' But I never heard
my brother mention you while he was here.'

While he was here ? Is he here no longer ?
Where is he ? Is his daughter with him ? Is
she not here ? '

His daughter ! No, she is not here. Lie
never has been here. My brother has gone to
the Bendigo gold-fields.'

Where is Mavis ? '

My brother's daughter ? I don't know.'

A sensation like fainting came over Jack
Bassett. The blow was tremendous ; he was
utterly unprepared for it, and he was defenceless
against it. He strove for a few moments with
the chilly, creeping weakness that beset him,
and conquered it. When he was able to speak,
he addressed himself to the legitimate wonder
and curiosity expressed in Mr. Wynn's countenance.


I will try to explain as briefly as possible
why I am here, and why I ask you these
questions. You take my word about myself,
don't you ? '

That you are Squire Bassett's son ? Certainly,
I take your word for that.'

Your brother knows me well, Mr. Wynn,
and he also knows that his daughter. Mavis, is

my promised wife. I wrote the whole truth to
him after he left England.'

Jack then told Mr. Wynn he had been
ignorant of all that had recently happened at
Fieldflower Farm ; and that immediately on
learning the facts he had resolved to follow
Mavis to Australia. The young man spoke
with fire and animation, but also with such
keen and pitiful distress, that the quiet, commonplace
trader, without a spark of romance in
his composition, was moved by an entirely novel
sensation. This was a very odd young man,
but he liked him. Mr. Lewis Wynn had never
given a thought to his niece since her father
had briefly informed him that it suited Mavis
to stay in England, and he had been glad to
leave her there ; adding that women were a
hindrance everywhere. The matter had not
been referred to again. Mr. Wynn did not feel
sufficient interest in Mavis to induce him to
inquire where her father had left her, or what
she was doing.

As the girl's lover appealed to him in many
and heartfelt words, telling of the harassing
uncertainty he had endured, of the pain of her
inexplicable silence, and the hopes with which
he had made this long voyage, interest and pity
were awakened in Mr. \ynn's mind. After
all, his niece micrht have been worth thinkiuii;
about. Jack's pride and self-control could not
keep his lips from trembling, or his voice from
faltering, but his hearer liked him none the less
for those signs of emotion.

I am sorry for you,' he said, dien he had
heard all ; ' it is a hard case. I would do anything
I could, but I know nothing about my
niece, and I doubt whether my brother would
answer questions if there were any means of
putting them 'to him. He's a queer-tempered
man, as every one that has anything to do with
him finds out. I happen to know that he did
get a letter addressed " care of Mr. Lewis
Wynn, Melbourne " ; but he gave me no hint
of its contents, and as he was always the
VOL. III. L

same, I should say it produced no effect upon
him.'

It was cruel of him to send me no reply.
He must have known what I would do.'

I am afraid he is cruel. I noticed that
very soon. But as for his knowing what you
would do, I don't think it is likely. It would
never come into his head, I should say, that
you would make such a voyage on such a
chance.'

But it wasn't a chance ! The possibility of
Mavis not having left England with her father
never occurred to me. How could it ? And
he has deliberately left me in the dark ! Why ?
There was nothing to offend him in what I
wrote.'

'Certainly not. But it is useless for you
and me to discuss his motives. The strangest
thing is that Mavis, having stayed in England,
never wrote to you. Excuse me, sir, but girls
are feeble creatures, wise folk say. May she
not have changed her mind, and, being ashamed

to confess it, have thought it better just to drop
the thing, and leave it there ? Of course,' he
added, for Jack's face had become tempestuous,
this is only a guess ; still, if she was left free
when her father sailed for Melbourne, why did
she cease to write to you ? '

I cannot even guess. It was a mystery
when I believed that I should find her
here ; it is a much deeper mystery now ; but
whatever the explanation may be, it is not what
you think. Of that I am as sure as that she is
alive  indeed, I am more sure '  a deeper
shade fell upon his troubled face,  'for she
might  she could  die. She could not break
faith. You don't know your niece, sir.'

No, no, of course not,' said Mr. Wynn,
soothingly ; ' I wish I did, poor girl. I wish
with all my heart she had come out here. It
would be all right now, and she would have
taken to the place and the birds, I dare say.'

As he said this, nervously  for the great
pain with which his visitor was doing battle

L 2

touched him strangely  Mr. Wynn noticed
Jack's tied-hip arm, and exclaimed :

*But you're hurt, Mr. Bassett ! How is
this ? An accident on board ship ? '

'No. I was wounded at Inkerman, and
my arm is not all right yet.'

Oh ! You are in the Army, then ? '
Jack could almost have smiled at the
speaker's tone. It expressed profound respect,
even awe. He had touched a responsive chord.
This mild little man, who had made his pile
by the peaceful processes of miscellaneous
trade, cherished a deep admiration of military
glory. He would have instantly spirited Mavis
from the other side of the world to her lover's
arms if he could. He regarded the gallant
young soldier's attachment to his niece as a
rare distinction and honour.

I am very glad to hear it  I mean, I am
proud to see you here  and  and  I hope all
will be well,' said the mild man, much embarrassed,
but timidly offering his hand to Jack,

who grasped it heartily. From that moment
this oddly-contrasted pair were friends.

It was readily arranged that Captain Bassett
should remain at Yarra Lodge until some
decision had been reached  not that he had
any hesitation about what he meant to do 
and he was at once placed in possession of a
pleasant room. The smart boy was sent off to
Partridge with the horse, and with orders to
bring back Jack's luggage.

When he had rallied from the shock of his
disappointment sufficiently to be able to observe
the place he was in, Jack found much to
interest him.

Mr. Lewis Wynn was an intelligent man.
He had lived many years in the Colony, and
had shared in the vicissitudes of its history
from its pastoral beginnings to the feverishly
active commercial era that was now assuming
a settled aspect. He had made a large sum of
money by trading in pretty nearly everything
that could be bought and sold, and also by the

recent rise in the value of land in and about
Melbourne. Some of his earliest savings had
been invested in that commodity. He had
never married. He left a sweetheart in
England when he went away to make his
fortune, but she died shortly afterwards. She
was only a dream to him now, and he had
never cared to displace the dream by a reality.
He was a plain, kindly, lonely man, of quiet
ways ; the making of money had long ceased
to be of importance to him, and he had no
sordid love of the money he had made. He
had induced his younger brother to come out
to the Colony, knowing very little about him,
but thinking that he might as well be on the
spot where he would probably one day possess
larger interests than any he could acquire in
England. The experiment had not succeeded.
The brothers were totally unlike in mind and
manners. Farmer Wynn, who had no certain
knowledge of the wealth which his brother had
accumulated, and estimated it quite erroneously

from his own vulgar point of view, had so
speedily resolved upon trying his luck at the
gold-fields, that he had not given himself time
to cultivate relations which might have led to
his being better informed.

Mr. Wynn and his unexpected guest had
ranged over many subjects absolutely novel to
Captain Bassett, before they parted for the
night ; but they had constantly returned to the
topic of Mavis. Nothing to mitigate the blank
negative with which Mr. Wynn had answered
Jack's first enquiries was elicited from him.
Jack showed him Mavis's writing, but he could
not even say whether his brother had received
letters in that hand.

In the evening, when Mr. Wynn's pets,
including a tame ' laughing jackass '  whose
singular notes, a blending of hee-haw and ha-ha,
have procured that unique Australian bird
its name  had been housed and were silent,
the two men sat until late m the verandah.
The strange stars were shining, and it was

morning at home. They talked of what the
next stage of Jack's quest was to be.

I bring my father's written consent. If I
had found her here, I do not think Farmer
Wynn could have objected ; but even if he had
refused me, Mavis would have come home with
me. It is only beginning over again. I will
find him, wherever he may be. He will tell
me where she is, and I hope he will let me
take his blessing to my promised wife.'

Mr. Wynn looked grave. ' You must not
think it will be an easy matter to get at him,'
he said. ' Although it is not so bad as in the
time I have been telling you stories of, the road
to Bendigo is still no easy one to travel, and
Ashen you get there you may not find my
brother. Nothing has been heard of him ; but
that I was prepared for. He may have gone
oa to Mount Alexander.'

I shall be able to ascertain that,' said Jack,
quietly ; ' and I shall find him, wherever he
may be.'

What if he's in one of his devil's humours,
and will not listen to this young fellow, or even
tell him where his daughter is ? ' thought Mr,
Wynn ; but he refrained from uttering the
thought. They talked of how Jack was to
travel, and his youthful spirits rose, stirred by
the novelty and strangeness of the adventure,
and the prospect of getting a glimpse of that gold-fever
against which he was proof. It would be
only a glimpse ; not for one unnecessary hour
after Wynn had spoken, should Jack's face be
turned from the homeward route. It soon
appeared that the young man he had met in
the morning at the store in Burke Street
might be of service to him. He was a clever
fellow, Jeffrey by name, one of a party of men
who had come out a couple of years before
from Canada, and had done wonderfully well
as, indeed, they deserved to do, were it only
for the ingenuity of their first proceeding,
which was to make the voyage from Quebec
to Melbourne pay, instead of costing money.

They bought a brig of 300 tons burthen, and
loaded the vessel with the things that are most
in demand in a new country. They sold the
cargo at a large profit at Melbourne. Then
they travelled to the Ovens diggings, at the
moment of their greatest prosperity, and got
highly-paid employment : some as diggers ;
others in the exercise of their woodman's craft
on the construction of weather-board huts and
hotels ; but the majority in ' teaming '  as carting
on the roads was called. The occupation
was very profitable ; the Canadians were first-rate
teamsters, and they knew what co-operation
Acts good for. In a few weeks, half a dozen
well-found American waggons were carrying
provisions from Melbourne to Beechworth at
rates varying from 100/. to 150Z. per ton.

Jeffrey was one of this industrious band.
He had been for some years farming in Canada,
in a small way, and he had come out, leaving
his farm in the hands of his partner, ' to make
a pile.' Shortly after his arrival he had fallen

in with Mr. Wynn, who liked his energy and
the absence in him of the prevalent roughness.
Jeffrey had made money by trading in a variety
of ways ; had recently sold his share in the
teaming ' business, and was lingering awhile in
Melbourne before returning to Canada.

You shall come in with me in the morning,'
said Mr. Wynn to Jack, as he bade him
good-night, ' to look about you a bit. Jeffrey
is sure to turn up, and he will be glad to come
back here with us.'

When he was alone with his defeat Jack
gave way for a while. He was a good fellow :
there was strong stuff in his simple, manly
nature ; but this had been a heavy blow.
Once more he had to face the unknown ; again
an interminable waste of waters lay between
him and Mavis. In how many days should he
hind Farmer Wynn? In how many more
should he be able to get back to Melbourne,
and embark for England?

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE CHAPTER XXIX.

TROUBLING LETHE.

Miss Nestle was summoned one morning in
the early spring to an after-breakfast conference
with the Squire. Its subject was Jack,
and the matter in hand was a letter from him
which this father had received the day before,
containing an account of the tragical death
of Wynn, and the destruction of his own
hopes. The Squire was deeply affected by this
intelligence. He had never had a just notion
of Wynn's character, because it had been the
farmer's interest to stand well with him, and
Wynn could dissimulate when it suited hin).
The Squire was not only shocked, but sorry.
Besides, the dreadful event implied formidable
future difficulties for Jack, who would come

back to his previous state of ignorance about
Mavis without the former resource, and with
precisely the same devotion to her. The
Squire felt as certain on this point, as he had
felt that Jack would stick to his determination
to be a soldier, and nothing else, in spite
of the news which Mr. Dexter brought to
Bassett.

Jack would be unhappy. His Hfe, so well
begun, and full of promise, would be spoiled.
The Squire, with all his heart, soul, mind, and
strength, wanted his son to be happy, his life to
be one of well-shapen ends. For himself he
had long been content to do without happiness
; he knew that for him that treasure lay
where the rainbow touches the earth,' or
rather, in a better country ; but he was not
consistent enough to ask himself why should it
be otherwise for his beloved son.? That last
hard touch of reason the Squire lacked.

Mr. Bassett looked ill and troubled. Miss
Nestle, too, was perturbed ; but this was on the

Squire's account. She was not particularly
grieved about Wynn's death or the manner of
it, though she had been decently shocked at
the intelligence. She had, however, ' slept on '
the catastrophe, and the night had brought
her counsels in accordance with her principles.
If Wynn had stayed at home and minded his
business, he would not have been killed abroad,
while meddling with things that were not in
his line. Furthermore, since she had declined
upon the level of Fieldflower Farm, Miss Nestle
had heard a great deal about Wynn that had
never reached her at the privileged altitude of
the house on the hill. She therefore reasoned
away her moderate regrets by the reflection
that nobody would be the worse for his having
been knocked on the head, while several people
would probably be the better. Miss Nestle
reflected on this occasion that if a certain number
of people must be murdered in order to
keep things straight with a mysterious system
she had heard talked of as ' averages,' it was

well they should be persons whom the community
could comfortably spare. If Wynn
had spoken first, and died a natural death
afterwards, it would have been better ; but,
since the immovable obstinacy of Mr. John had
reduced her to hoping to see Mavis Wynn his
wife, it was some satisfaction that she should
never see him Wynn's son-in-law. The truth
had been told to Miss Nestle when Jack
resolved on following Mavis to Australia, and
she had been trying ever since to reconcile
herself to it, by applying her own rule to her
own conduct. When the Squire now appealed
to her memory for any fact or inference that
might enable him to trace Mavis, in anticipation
of Jack's return, Miss Nestle repented her
of the indifference and reserve with which she
had treated the farmer's wife and daughter at
their last meeting. It was no salve to her feelings
that the suspicions she had entertained
were justified by events, and that her own
sagacity was thereby established. If she had

not been so sagacious, she might have been
able to help her beloved master  now that
facts had proved too strong for them both  to
procure his own way for the young man who
had never hitherto been balked of it. But
regret was unavailing ; Miss Nestle could render
no aid.

She must be found ; she must be found,'
said the Squire, so emphatically that Trotty
Veck started, and Isaac turned his topaz eyes
suspiciously on Miss Nestle as the disturber of
the peace ; ' there is not the slightest chance of
his giving her up

He always was the obstinate boy that
could be,' said Miss Nestle, ' even in his pinafores,
bless his heart ! And when he got into
jackets, there was no use in saying " No " to
him. " Nestyy, I mean to have it," was just
like the Burial Service ; there was no going
against it.'

The Squire nodded his head dejectedly, in
assent.

'To be sure what Mr. Jack stuck to was
mostly no harm, but he did stick to it, like
wax.'

That is one of his own bits of slang,'
said the Squire, with a smile. * Well, well, we
must wait until he comes back, I suppose.'

You don't know for certain when that
will be, sir ? '

No ; but I hope he is a good way on his
voyage by this time. He says, as I told you,
that he and his friend Mr. Jeffrey were to
sail by the first ship they could get a passage
in, after poor Wynn's affairs were settled, and
that he might not write again from Melbourne.
It will be a bad business if to the last nothing
turns up. I wish I could do something before
he returns. But there's no way, there's noway'


Couldn't Mr. Dexter find one, sir, if you
were to go to London and see him ? '

The Squire's face brightened :

A capital idea,' he said. ' I will go.'

Mr. Bassett, like many men who lead quiet
lives and move from home but seldom, was
quick in acting upon a resolution implying
chancre of scene. He started for London on
the following morning and knocked at the
door of Mr. Dexter's house in Taviton Street,
just as that gentleman, having devoted the
allotted time to his port wine and his evening
paper, was about to enjoy himself over what
he called ' arrears ' of work. Mr. Bassett was
ushered into the dining-room, and as Mr.
Dexter rose to give him a surprised but hearty
greeting, he placed the newspaper over the
pile of documents by his side. There was a
little embarrassment in his manner, but the
Squire did not notice it.

Mr. Bassett had dined at the Euston Hotel,
and the two friends were soon engrossed with
the business of the hour. This was the latest
intelligence from Jack  who stood much higher
than formerly in Mr. Dexter's favour  and the
Squire's melancholy comments upon it. The

lawyer listened with the inexhaustible professional
patience, in the intelligent professional
silence, and with interest quickened by his
remembrance of Mavis Wynn. His first comment
cheered the Squire.

If she is alive,' he said, ' I do not think
we can fail to find her. Supposing her father's
papers give no clue, there will arise the necessity
for advertising for her on account of the
property he has left. Now, as the only conceivable
reason for her silence would be obedience
to some unaccountable command of his,
she will know that she is free from anything of
that kind when she learns that he is dead.
Depend upon it, your son will hear of her
then.'

Yes, yes,' said Mr. Bassett, 'you are quite
right, Dexter ; this will be the way out of the
wood. We shall find her if, as you say, she
is alive.'

And your son would certainly have heard
of her death. There would have been some

communication, some last message from her,
depend upon it. All will be well. The boy
will win his wife, and nobody can deny that
he will have earned her. I used not altogether
to admire his tenacity, as you may remember.
I now admire it thoroughly in its higher form
of constancy.'

The Squire cheered up still more.
It is fortunate that you have come to town
to-day,' said Mr. Dexter, with the slight embarrassment
he had already shown ; ' for I particularly
wanted to see you, and meant to write
to you to-night.'
Indeed ! '

Lir. Dexter slipped his hand under the
newspaper, withdrew a packet from the pile,
and held it on his knee while speaking :

I have something serious to say to you,
Squire. It is on the subject that has been a
silent one between us for so honors

this indispensable ? '

Entirely so. I have had a visit to-day
VOL. m.

THE LOVER'S CREED.

from M. Keveillon. He has a communication
of imperative importance to make to you. I
assure you, Squire, that you must receive it,
and I was about to write and ask you to come
up to town for the purpose.'

Do you know its nature ? You are aware
that I disclaim all right of interference in anyway
whatsoever; that  they  are absolutely
free, as free as if I were dead.'

I know that you made such a compact ;
but you cannot confer what is not yours to
bestow, and the facts are against you here.'

What has happened ? '

'This will tell you.'

Mr. Dexter rose and held out the hitherto
concealed packet to the Squire, who took it
reluctantly, glancing nervously at the address.

Nothing that is bad in itself has happened,
but you will be obliged to reconsider your
position.'

That I can never do.'

Mr. Dexter privately recorded his belief

that Jack's obstinacy was of the hereditary
kind, but he patiently replied :

Very good. We shall see. Will you read
that, and let us discuss the subject to-night ;
or will you take it with you, as I should advise,
and meet Eeveillon at my office tomorrow ? '

You are clear that I must meet him ? '

Quite clear.'

Very well, then ; I will keep any appointment
you make for me. And now I will go ;
I am tired. I shall see you in the morning.'

Mr. Dexter went to the house-door with
the Squire, stood for a minute or two on the
threshold, watching him as he walked down
the street, then returned to the dining-room,
sat down before the fire, poked it, and fell into
a brown study.

It was very unlike Bassett,' so ran Mr.
Dexter's thoughts, ' to be so unwilling, or unable,
to enter upon this matter ; to ask no
questions, to make no fight against its being
pressed upon him. I take it his pride has been

:,

heavily battered by Jack's affair, and some
softer feeling may be creeping in through the
breach. Its late in the day, but " better late
than never." '

* * * 

On reaching his hotel Mr. Basse tt applied
himself to read the following : 

I address you, Randolph, under circumstances
beyond my control. These circumstances
oblige me to break the silence of many
years. It will distress you to receive a communication
from me, but it will distress you
Jess than to have the matter which I must lay
before you, disclosed to you in the first instance
by a stranger. In addition to this reason for
doing so, I am instructed that it is my duty to
write to you.

A complication of my position has arisen.
It is one which I ought to have foreseen and
avoided, but can now only face. I am driven
by it to intrude upon you. Your daughter,
who does not yet know that she has a father

living, but must presently be told the truth  to
her joy or sorrow will be for you to decide 
is now a good and lovely girl, nearly eighteen
years old. She resembles neither you nor me
she is strikingly Uke the miniature portrait
of your mother. She is sought in marriage
by a French officer ; he is a Captain in the
Chasseurs orleans ; his personal character
and social position are unexceptionable. She
loves this young man. His name is Eene de
Eastacq. His mother lives within a few miles
of my dwelling, and is my friend. She is
anxious that her son should marry our daughter,
and has made formal proposals to me, according
to the custom here.

You will have learned by this statement,
for what cause I break the silence which has
lasted so long, and what is the obligation that
rests upon both of us. Madame de Eastacq
and her son await my answer. I have told
them that I cannot enter into the matter until
certain papers are in my possession. Our

daughter has dutifully accepted that delay. It
is impossible to prolong it, and it is impossible
that Sybil can enter this honourable family
under a false name, and as the fatherless
daughter of a widow.

Madame de Eastacq strictly adheres to the
manners, customs, and ideas of her country.
She loves her son, and she loves our daughter.
She knows nothing whatever of my own
history, but she is aware that I can give Sybil
a good fortune ; nevertheless, she would break
this engagement and Sybil's heart with it, if
the breath of suspicion rested on my child, or
that of scandal upon me. You will ask, why
should suspicion or scandal rest upon either of
us, were the whole truth known ? I answer,
because such a position as mine, such a history
as ours, is out of harmony with the social
system and the social ideas of France. When
I have told Madame de Eastacq that you and
I parted, by mutual consent, after a year of
marriage, rendered wretched by my blind folly

and detestable vanity; when I have told her
that you left me absolute mistress of my own
life, and of all the money I might earn or
inherit, and having learned, that I was expecting
a child, declined to make any change in
our contract of separation on that account, but
declared that you would never see the child,
lest you might come to love it, and have to
suffer in its person also from the conflict
between your principles and ideas and mine ;
when I have told her that thereupon I formed
the resolution of allowing myself to be regarded
as a widow, and Sybil as fatherless 
she will say to me, " Prove your statement."
She will say to me, " Who were you ?  in what
position were you when this English gentleman
married you?" I shall have to answer:  "I
was the famous singer, Dorothea deserves. I
promised my husband, if he would keep our
marriage secret until I had achieved one more
triumph, that I would leave the stage, and goto
his quiet English home with him and his

motherless little son ; but the spell of my profession
was upon me ; I could not realise the
deep dislike with which my husband regarded
the publicity of my life, its odious associations,
and the complications of a secret marriage.
At length he gave me my choice  'Keep
your promise, or give me up.' Vanity, temper
astonished anger that he could place such an
alternative before me, made me reckless. I
made my choice ; like that of Esau, it was
profane. By that choice I have ever since had
to abide, and now the punishment of it, which
I have borne for all these years, alone, as it
was fitting I should bear it, threatens to fall
upon my child ! " What will Madame de
Eastacq answer to this ? She will answer that
her son cannot marry the daughter of a public
singer, whose husband left her before her child
was born !

This is the situation which our contract of
parting, made before we knew that there was
one who might have to suffer for our sins, has

created for our child. The fortune which my
uncle, Charles deserves, bequeathed to me,
added to that which was of my own earning,
and which you disdained to share, will not
avail to shake the resolution of Madame
de Eastacq. The point of honour will prevail
with her over every other consideration. For
Sybil's feelings I can answer confidently. She
is of a delicate constitution, and extremely
sensitive. The knowledge that the misery of
her life was of my making would break her
heart.

I have put before you my plain statement
in the fewest words I could use. Randolph,
what will you do ? I am told that your sou is
all your heart can desire, and that you are
devoted to him. Do you not think he would
plead for his sister if he knew of her existence,
without any thought of the miserable woman
who crossed his father's path to darken it, but
who might have filled, however humbly, the
vacant place of his own young mother? One

day or another his turn will come. When he
tells you that his happiness is in the keeping of
a woman whom he loves, what is there that
you will not do to gain for him his heart's
desire? Will you do nothing for his sister?
She has grown up to womanhood without the
guidance of a father, without the companionship
of a brother. This is a heavy penalty for
our innocent child to bear. Is she to bear a
penalty heavier still ?

I put this question to you with fear, but
also with hope. On every side of a matter
which has been wrong from the beginning,
there must be pain ; but should it not be so
apportioned as to spare the guiltless? The
revelation of our marriage cannot fail to be a
severe trial to you ; it is, however, inevitable,
although it should cause Madame de Eastacq
to refuse her sanction to her son's marriage
with our daughter. How is this avowal to be
made ? On your decision hangs the future of
two young lives. Our child and her husband

may realise what you and I once dreamed of.
Instead of paying the price of our disillusion,
they may reap the benefit of our experience.

Will you come here and acknowledge meas
your wife, and Sybil as your daughter ? Will
you  putting me altogether aside, for I have
not one thought for myself in the matter 
take your true position, anti vindicate your
daughter's right to enter an honourable family,
by establishing her mother's good name ? Will
you do this, Randolph, for God's sake first,
and then for the sake of her whom we have so
deeply wronged ? I think you would love the
child if you knew her, and you would see she
had not been brought up on principles and
with ideas so entirely unlike your own as you
take mine to be. She has lived in such retirement,
she knows so little of the world, that I
do not think she has ever realised that disappointment
has any place in it.

You would not recognise me, if we met.
I have sometimes thought that if we were to

meet, we might become friends, and the ghost
of the past be laid. But it is not with this
idea I write ; my motive is the single one
which I have stated. My prayer is wrung
from me by the peril of my child. Let it not
be made in vain to her father.

'M. Eeveillon takes this to Mr. Dexter.
He is also charged by me with certain communications
relating to money matters. These
are rendered necessary by French law and
custom. He will have to ask you for papers 
our marriage certificate, your formal consent
to Sybil's betrothal, and others. In any case
I should have to be furnished with these. In
the event which I dread to think of they will
be useless.

'Dorothea Vivian Bassett.'

The small hours of the night found Mr.
Bassett sitting before the fire, as he was wont
to sit at home ; but no book kept him company.
His head was bent upon his breast,

his hands hung over bis knees, his face wore
the painful laborious expression of one who is
travelling back in spirit along old pathways in
the mood of a self-accuser and a judge.

The ' old story ' was then to have a
sequel. The book in which it was written
was not a sealed volume, but one of ' remembrance.'
He had said in his resolute pride that
his marriage with the woman who had broken
her word, who had preferred her stage career
to him, should be as though it had never been.
And this had been so, for many years. His
sensitive and tenacious nature had received an
indelible impression. His wife's choice, he
believed, had been deliberate, and in accordance
with her inveterate tastes. Her first concession,
he was firmly convinced, had been
dictated by mere impulse, and her so-called
love for him had been a passing fancy, dispelled
when brought to the covenanted test.

He was incapable of looking at the case
from any standpoint but that of his injured

confidence and his wounded pride. His wife
had proposed the first contract, and she had
broken it. She had accepted the second, but
its terms admitted of no breaking. He had
suffered severely, but always with a resolution
to conquer the pain of an irrevocable,
irretrievable ill, and he had conquered it. His
secret marriage and its termination had become
an old story to Mr. Bassett sooner thana
similar experience would have become an
old story to many a less just-minded and kindhearted
man.

He had made a great mistake, and another
person was inevitably involved in its consequences.
In the time of calm thinking  it
was not slow of coming  he dwelt much on
the possibilities of his wife's future. She was
highly gifted, famous, ambitious ; the world,
which she had for a while believed she could
bear to sacrifice  nay more, that it would be
well lost ' lor his sake  was at her feet.
From the fetters of her secret marriage he had

no power to release her. She had proved to
herself that a husband's love could not compete
with the breath of public applause ; she
would not miss that which she had deliberately-rejected.
The false position of a woman supposed
to be free, while in reality bound by-marriage
vows, was irremediable, but she would
support it with dignity. Whe.i he should
have lived down his own pain, he need think
no more of her. The way she had chosen
lay fair and flower-strewn before the popular
singer.

He was living down his pain, in the company
of his little son and his books, when the
first news he had heard of his wife, beyond the
mention of her in newspapers, reached him.

That intelligence was of a startling nature :
his wife would soon be a mother ! The fact
was briefly communicated to him by herself.
His action upon this was characteristic of his
simplicity and tenacity alike. He had no complex
motives, and he failed to recognise and

allow for them in other people. He was rarely
in doubt, and once 'resolved,' remained so.
Variableness of mind was a factor which he
did not take into account. That his wife was
sorry for what she had done, that she meant
her simple statement as an appeal, did not
occur to him. He was only anxious to assure
her that he would never interfere with her sole
authority over their child. If she now regarded
the avowal of their marriage as necessary,
she was free to acknowledge it. On this
point he had no suggestion to offer.

From that hour until the present, Mr.
Bassett had never held any direct communication
with his wife. A formal notification of
the birth of their daughter was sent to him
through Mr. Dexter, who had been made
acquainted with the facts, and then the curtain
dropped upon that scene of the Squire's hfe-
drama. Soon after, he, like all the rest of the
public, read of the withdrawal of Dorothea
deserves from the lyric stage, to the unutterable

woe of a world which very soon forgot
her existence.

Has she been mistaken in that too ? ' was
Mr. Bassett's mental comment upon this event.

The story was a very old one now, and for
several peaceful studious years it had not
caused Mr. Bassett any disturbance of mind.
When Jack told his love-story to his father, a
chord was struck which had long been silent
in the Squire's breast. His boy had set sail
upon that treacherous sea in which he himself
had made shipwreck. What would his son 9
fortunes be? The bitterness with which the
Squire had repeated Jack's assurance of Mavis's
love, remarking to himself that his son ' would
not have the world for his rival,' was due to an
awakened memory. He had then been forced
to admit importunate thoughts of the past ;
now they were crowding in upon him with
merciless urgency, at this appeal from the
mother of his unknown daughter.

There is no lesson marre sure to be taught

VOL. III. ?

US by life than the impossibility of limiting the
consequences of our errors to ourselves. If
there be any conscience, any heart in us, we
learn that lesson by dint of many stripes, and
with bitter secret tears.

The Squire learnt it thoroughly, and took
it to heart, in his night-watch. He had never
thought about his daughter, except in the
vaguest way; and now he found himself the
arbiter of her fate. She had hardly been a
reality to his mind, and now he seemed to
see her, so vivid was the effect produced by
his wife's comment on Sybil's likeness to his
mother.

His wife's letter affected him strangely.
The very handwriting was like a message from
the dead. Then, there was something under
the restrained and self-effacing tone that startled
him. And she thought that he would not
recognise her if they were to meet ! Well,
perhaps it might be so  it was a long time
aso ! More than all the lifetime of their

daughter  the girl, so like his mother, whom

he had never seen. If she was like his

mother she must be like Jack, but with dark

eyes. What would Jack think when he should

learn the truth ?

The Squire had paid little heed to what

his son said of the young Frenchman whom

he had rescued from amid the mound of dead

after Inkerman. Trying to remember Jack's

words, he was reminded that he had talked of

an excursion to Brittany, to visit de Eastacq,

as a thing to be done in the future. So, if

this revival of the old story had not come

about, the brother and sister might have met

as strangers. Years had passed since he had

known where his wife was having ; the mention

of de Eastacq's home had no association for

him.

*****

With his first glance at the Squire, when he
saw him on the following morning, Mr. Dexter
said to himself, 'He will cfo. The letter

p 2

has hit a joint in his harness. That joint is
Jack!'

*****

Madame Vivian's agent had looked forward
with a good deal of curiosity to his interview
with her husband. He had previously believed
the Squire to be the most implacable and pigheaded
of mortals, and secretly wondered at
the infatuation which made such a woman as
Madame Vivian cling to the idea of him, in
their hopeless separation, as he was"* perfectly
sure she did. M. Eeveillon was, however,
favourably impressed by Mr. Bassett, and particularly
liked his simplicity and ' Britannic
frankness.' Having lucidly set forth the French
legal and social method of proceeding in the
matter of marriage, he asked Mr. Bassett the
downright question, whether he intended to
give the sanction of his presence to his daughter's
betrothal ?

I do, sir,' replied the Squire. ' It is my
intention to write to my wife to that effect today.'


I am sincerely rejoiced to hear it,' said M.
Eeveillon.

It was finally decided that the Squire and
M. Eeveillon should travel together so far as
Paris. M. Eeveillon then withdrew, and Mr.
Bassett wrote a note to Miss Nestle. He said
merely that unforeseen business obliged him not
only to protract his absence from home, but to
go to France for a short time.

The Squire dined with Mr. Dexter, and
their after-dinner talk led to an extension of
his plan. He proposed that Mr. Dexter should
accompany himself and M. Eeveillon. Mr.
Dexter had a way of finding time to devote to
his old friend's interests, and he agreed to go
with him, to the great relief of the Squire.

Mr. Bassett's proposal was indeed much to
Mr. Dexter's mind. He felt an ardent curiosity
with respect to the Squire's wife, for a reason
which had nothing to do nth the interest
inspired by the present crisis of affairs. This
curiosity had arisen out of a certain occurrence
of that morning.

Among the documents that he had collected
for M. Eeveillon was the intimation of his
daughter's birth which had been sent to Mr.
Bassett. This was written by the ' confidential
companion ' (so the writer styled herself) of
Mrs. Bassett, and it was signed ' Mary Metge.'
It was nearly eighteen years since Mr. Dexter
had seen this paper, and he naturally had no
recollection of the signature. But on removing
it from the tin box, wherein it had reposed all
those years, he had recognised both the writing
and the name. The housekeeper at Bassett had
been instructed by Mr. Lansdell to communicate
when necessary with Mr. Dexter. She had
obeyed her employer's instructions, and her
communications were signed ' Mary Metge.'

Mrs. Bassett is a very clever woman,' said
Mr. Dexter to himself. ' The unheard-of 
of Mr. Lansdell ought to
have made me suspect something, especially as
Eeveillon knew all about the loss of the suit ;
but it didn't. And so the Squire's wife is the

Squire's tenant  her former companion is housekeeper
at Bassett, Lansdell's a dummy  and I
am her man of business ! She is a very clever
woman. How the deuce did she make such a
mess of her own affairs ? How did she fail to
mAnage the most manageable man alive, provided
one never forgets his pride, and doesn't
go too dead against his prejudices? '

CHAPTEE XXX.

HIDDEN JEWELS.

What a horrid thing money is ! Don't you
think so, Marguerite ? If it wasn't for money
we might all be so happy and comfortable,
instead of waiting about in this way, and not
knowing anything for certain.'

The speaker was Sybil Vivian, and her half-jesting,
half-petulant words were addressed to
Mavis. The two girls were walking on the
platform under the verandah.

I suppose I ought sagely to remind you,'
said Mavis, ' that without money none of us in
this lower world can be either happy or comfortable.
But I will neglect my duty, and
agree with you.'

There's a good girl. It is really delightful

of you, Marguerite, to put up with me as you
do, and never to want to improve the occasion.
You can improve occasions so well, too ; for you
know you really are a rock of sense. The time
seems so long until M. Eeveillon comes back,
and brings those tiresome papers about Maman's
family and all that. Do you think it was very
nice of Madame de Eastacq to make it a condition
that Eene is not to come here until
everything has been arranged ? I thought
Maman seemed rather hurt about it, and it made
me feel almost ashamed  I could not settle
with myself zAy  gave me that feeling  but
Rene did not mind a bit. Shall I tell you what
he said? Yes? Very well then, I will. He
said, " We must let my good mother have her
way in this ; it will not interfere in the least
with our having our way on the main point."
Of course he is right ; Rene is always right 
and oh, what a good son he is ! So respectful,
so forbearing ! Still, dear Marguerite, you
cannot imagine, because*" you do not know

bow dreary the days are that do not bring
him.'

Mavis smiled very sadly. She could have
told the happy young girl who talked so lightly
of dreary days, what was the real meaning of
those that must pass on and on in hopeless procession,
never bringing, never by any possibility
to bring, the touch of a vanished hand, or the
sound of a voice that is still. ' I can guess,
dear,' she answered gently, ' but the time will
not be long in passing, and you know, if " il
faut soufFrir pour etre belle," one must also
suffer something for being happy.'

Oh yes, I suppose so. And we shall be so
happy ! Don't you think we shall. Marguerite?
Who could have a better chance of happiness
than I with Eene ? '

No one, I should think ; except Eene with
you.'

I think Maman quite likes him,' continued
Sybil, thanking Mavis with a squeeze of her
arm for that pleasant speech, ' though she looks

SO troubled and so absent. It is not on his
account, I am sure ; it is only on account of
these horrid papers, and the French way of
doing things. She looked ill this morning, did
she not? But still she looked lovely. I think
there is no one so handsome as Maman ; there
is so much in her face, Eene says. Is it not
strange that I know so little about Maman ?
Not even whether she and my father were very
happy together. It is only lately I have had
any thoughts about these things.'

The girls had turned at the rock-barrier at
the end of the platform-walk, and were now
under that portion of the verandah upon which
Madame Vivian's windows opened. They
looked up as her voice calling to Sybil reached
them, and saw her leaning over the railing of
the verandah.

 Have you had enough Walking ? ' she
said.

Yes, Maman, if you want us.'

'I do, both of you. Come to me here.'

Has she had any news ? Is it about
Een6?'

I cannot guess. It is no bad news about
him or anything else, at all events.'

In a few minutes the two girls joked
Madame Vivian in her study. She was standing
near the lofty carved oak chimney-piece ; a
wood fire was burning on the hearth, and its
light played upon her tall figure, arrayed in her
invariable morning dress of white cashmere
bordered with swan's-down. Her snow-white
hair was shaded with a lappet of Venetian lace.
The writing-table was covered with papers, and
Madame Vivian had apparently been at work
for some hours that morning.

Here we are, Maman,' said Sybil, gaily, but
with an anxious glance at her mother's face,
and we feel both honoured and puzzled, I
assure you. It is not often you let us into the
Blue Closet at this time of day.'

Suppose you were going to be shown
some of the secrets of the Blue Closet,' said

Madame Vivian, ' what would you think of
that?'

Delightful ! ' exclaimed Sybil ; ' I love
secrets, and I don't think I was ever told one in
my life. Sit down, Marguerite. Begin, Maman !
Why, what in the world is the matter with
Julius Caesar .P '

Madame Vivian had placed her hand on the
head of a figure of a Eoman warrior that projected
from the carved panel on the right side
of the chimney-piece ; the panel moved slowly,
revolving upon hidden hinges, and fell back
against the wall, like a door, revealing a sheet
of metal, with a small keyhole in it.

The girls looked at each other in amaze -
meat, as Madame Vivian put a little gold
key which she wore on her watch-chain into
this aperture. ' You did not know how appropriate
the name was, when in one of your
saucy fits you called this room the Blue Closet,
my darling,' she said, with a look of infinite
love at Sybil, ' but all its hidden treasures are

for you. In a few days you will be no longer
quite and only my own. I determined to give
you these pretty things first, to help you
through the time that I have no power to
shorten for you.' She turned the key, and
pushed back the heavy noiseless door of the iron
safe. The girls, who had risen and approached
the hiding-place, looked in and saw a casket of
silver ; Madame Vivian took this out and
placed it on her writing-table. It was discoloured,
but Sybil saw that it was of very fine
workmanship.

Oh, Maman, what is in it ? '

Some of the things that you talked about
the other day  things like those that are given
to great singers and actresses -jewels, my
daring.'

She raised the casket-lid, and a cry of admiration
burst from Sybil's lips. On a bed of
purple velvet lay a necklace of superb diamonds.
Their long imprisonment had not robbed their
everlasting lustre of a ray of its brilliance ; it

shot forth to meet the sunbeams in many-coloured
flashes, saluting them as its kin.

Take the necklace in your hands,' said
Madame Vivian, ' you will see it better so.'

Sybil obeyed her, and she and Mavis
examined the jewels, talking about them rapturously.
' Now look here,' said Madame
Vivian, and showed them a second tray in the
casket, whose contents were earrings, bracelets,
and a spray for the hair, all of fine brilliant.
The wonder and delight of the girls seemed
inexhaustible, but Mavis noticed that Madame
Vivian looked tired and sad, also that she did not
touch the gems, but bade her clasp the necklace
on Sybil's fair throat, and hang the earrings in
her pretty ears. Sybil could hardly realise
that these splendid things were hers ; she was
quite dazzled by their beauty, and overwhelmed
her mother with thanks. There was only one
drawback to her joy ; she would not be able
to show them to Eene until the tiresome papers
had arrived, and the horrid formalities were allover.

How pleased he would be ! ' But have
you never worn them, Maman ? ' asked Sybil ;
never at all, since  since my father died ? '

I have not worn them for many years, my
dear. I have kept them for you, and now they
are yours.'

Were they your mother's ? Did she give
them to you when you were going to be married?'


No. They were given to me, but not by
my mother. I can see you are longing to
know all about them, and I promise you that
you shall know. But not just yet  one grand
sensation at a time, if you please.'

Has it anything to do with M. Eeveillon,
and the papers ? '

Yes,' replied Madame Vivian, very gravely,
it has. Take your casket now, my darling,
and leave me. You and Marguerite will have
the whole afternoon to yourselves, for I have
to go to the presbyters.'

Sybil left her mother reluctantly. The

glory of the diamonds was somehow dimmed.
The two girls went to the music-room, and
Mavis sang magnificently, while Sybil sat listening,
with the silver casket in her lap. When
the pony-carriage came to the door, Madame
Vivian appeared in the hall ; Sybil ran down
to see her start, and carried the casket hinder
her arm. Her mother laughed :

You remind me of the time you had your
first doll, and carried it about everywhere for a
week  generally by its feet. Are you going to
sleep with your treasures under your pillows ? '

Mademoiselle would do much better to

put the casket back into the strong coffer of

Madame,' observed Gregoire, dryly.

*****

Sybil re-entered the house slowly and
thoughtfully. ' Marguerite,' she said, ' I think
I must be a downright fool. This morning I
told you that I hated money, and you put up
with that ! I now announce that I detest business,
abhor *' papers," dislike lawyers, and can't

VOL. It. Q

endure family secrets. Will you put up with
this too ? '

Certainly,' said Mavis, cheerfully. ' I don't
know much about most of those things, but
what I do know, I don't like. However, I feel
sure of this, dear Sybil, if there is any mystery,
if there are any family secrets in your case, the
clearing up of them is near. You can no more
doubt your mother's judgment than her affection
; depend on it she has done right.'

I never did doubt that,' said Sybil ; ' but
still I wish we could all be as transparent as
the de Eastacqs.'

Then throwing off her thoughtful mood,
she asked Mavis whether she felt up to a walk
through the Pass.

Maman will be away for hours ; our time
is our own ; it is an age since I have seen
Nurse Jeanne and my dear old man. It will
do me good to have a talk with them, and tell
them all my wonders. But don't say yes,
Marguerite, if you are tired.'

I am not at all tired ; I should enjoy thu
walk. Besides, the day is so fine, I shall be
able to finish my sketch of the Giant's Steppingstones,
and the Devil's Eock. You can leave
nie under my willow-tree for an hour. I can
do it in that time.'

The girls started on their pleasant walk.
Mavis carried a neat little sketching-case, a gift
from Madame Vivian, who had procured lessons
in drawing for her, as one means of ministering
to the mental malady she had discerned, and
Sybil carried a black leather hand-bag. Mavis
took no notice of this until they were well on
their way, when she asked Sybil what lie was
taking to Penhoel .

Sybil laughed :

Not any " goodies " to-day ; nor yet a
crowd book. Guess ! '

Mavis could not guess.

Well, then, I will tell you, though I
think it's Rather stupid of you not to be able
lo guc\ws, when you know the interest hei

2

takes in everything concerning me. It's the
diamonds ! '

The diamonds ! Oh, Sybil ! Is it safe ? '
Safe ? Of course it's safe ! Why, what
could possibly happen to them ? See, I have
made a nice bed of a fine handkerchief for them
in the bottom of the bag  oh, Marguerite, how
they shine ! '

She shut up the bag, and they walked on.
The willow-tree of which Mavis had spoken
was on the near side of the river, half-way up
the bank at a rather steep part of it, which led
straight up to a narrow pathway sheltered with
bushes. Beyond these the rocks rose in clustering
masses. It afforded good shelter as well
as an excellent point of view. Mavis settled
herself in her selected place, from whence she
could not be seen by any one crossing the Giant's
Stepping-Stones, while she could follow with
her eyes Sybil's light and buoyant steps. When
she was half-way across, Sybil stopped, and
holding up the black bag, gaily shook it in the

air. Mavis fancied she could hear her ringing
laugh. Then she betook herself to her drawing,
and her own thoughts.

As Sybil turned the shoulder of the rock
she saw Jeanne coming down the steep road
with Babette ; they were carrying a heavy
basket between them. Jeanne greeted Sybil
with her usual effusiveness, and called out to
Penhoel from the door :

Eh, here is our angel ! '

Penhoel was at his work, with Mistigris by
his side ; the tidy house was pleasant and
peaceful. The basket-maker was delighted to see
Sybil, and declared he had been expecting her.

I thought it was your hand I heard on
the latch just now,' he said ; ' and your foot
going past the window. So light a touch, so
light a foot! And M. le Capitaine? Have
you brought him ? Is he coming to fetch you? '

No, my dear old man, no. It's very sad,
you know, and those horrid lawyer people have
put us " en penitence." ' Then in her frank

and girlish way she told her troubles to Jeanne
and her husband. She had taken her customary
place by Penhoel's side, and sat with
her back towards the door of the room in which
the material for Penhoel's basket-making was
stored. Jeanne had immediately begun to busy
herself with the toasting of a cake for Sybil
who solemnly partook of a similar dainty
on each of her visits  the heads of the three
occupants of the kitchen were all turned in the
same direction, when the door of the adjoining
room was noiselessly pushed open by half an
inch, and as much of a face as could be applied
to the aperture appeared at it. The eavesdropper
was quite safe from detection while
Jeanne, Penhoel, and Sybil maintained their
respective positions. A pair of fierce, black
eyes rapidly scanned the situation, and then
fixed themselves upon the mahogany book-case,
which was placed against the opposite wall,
exactly facing the door.

Don't be long about toasting the cake,' said

Sybil, ' I have .got something beautiful to show
you. It's in my bag ; but I won't take it out
until you can attend to it.'

The cake is just done, my little one,' said
Jeanne. * Only two minutes more ! I can
guess what the something pretty is, a present
from M. le Capitaine.'

No, it isn't. Haven't I told you that
nothing is arranged as yet, and he mustn't give
me any presents, or write to me, or come to
see me, until all is settled? It is a present
though, and a far grander one, I fancy, than
ever M. le Capitaine will give me. Thank
you, nurse Jeanne ; now I will eat my cake,
and then you shall see what you shall see.
You will open your eyes, I can tell you.'

Jeanne was so accustomed to humouring
Sybil, as if she were still a child, that she
almost forgot she was not a child in realty,
and she listened, with pleased curiosity, but
with no notion that anything more than some
pretty trifle was in question.

Sybil ate her cake ; made Jeanne sit by her
side, so that she was placed between the two,
aud exactly opposite the door at which the
unseen listener was stationed ; then opening
the bag with a pretty air of ceremony and
solemnity, she took out a handkerchief. This
she spread on Penhoel's knees, and laid upon
it, first, the diamond necklace. Penhoel, to
whom the splendid thing conveyed no notion
of its value, but who saw its beauty, exclaimed
at sight of it, as Sybil herself had done ; but
Jeanne jumped up, struck her hands together,
and cried out :

Heavens ! the necklace of His Majesty ! '
Necklace of His Majesty ! nonsense, nurse
Jeanne. Do you suspect me of stealing the
Crown Diamonds ? It is the necklace of my own
dear mother, and these '  laying each as she
named it on Penhoel's knee  ' are her bracelets,
lier earrings, and a spray for her hair. How
beautiful she must have looked when she wore
them ! Did you ever see her " en grande

toilette," and all shining with these splendid
things, nurse Jeanne ? I never did, you know ;
I had no idea she possessed any diamonds.
They were in a strong confer in a hiding-place
under a panel of the chimney-piece in her study,
and she took them out and gave them to me
for my very own, this morning. I knew you
would like to see them, dear old man, and so,
as you cannot come to visit my fine things, I
brought them to visit you.'

I never saw anything so beautiful,' said
Penhoel, who had been touching the gems
admiringly with his large thin dexterous hands,
and now held up the necklace, so that the
coloured light streamed from it. *You will
look fine in all these ; but you ought to keep
them as safe as Madame has kept them.'

There's a silver box for them, and Maman
has given me that too. I should have brought
it, only that it is square, and would not fit into
the bag. It is such a beauty ! with figures of
the Twelve Apostles on the sides, and a crown

lying on crossed palm-branches on the top.
Did you ever see it, Jeanne ? Did you ever
see Maman wear those jewels, before my father
died ? '

Jeanne had recovered her composure by an
effort, after her unguarded exclamation ; but
she was again embarrassed by Sybil's questions.
The girl, totally unconscious of her embarrassment,
and occupied with the bracelets  she
had clasped them on her wrists and was turning
them about before Penhoel's eyes  repeated
her words. Jeanne had to answer :

'Yes, my little one, I have seen Madame
wear those diamonds, and she looked very grand
in them. I know the silver casket too. It was
made, Madame once told me, by a famous
worker in silver, for the daughter of the Queen
who was put to death, and it held relics of her
mother.'

Ah, then, that accounts for the crown and
palm-branch. I suppose it was one of Uncle
deserves' treasures. Look, look ! ' exclaimed



Sybil, passing to another subject, to Jeanne's
relief, ' when I jingle the earrings they actually
shoot out sparks ! '

She slipped the baubles into her ears, and
shook her dark shining head. The earrings
were of the old girandole pattern, and they
made a faint little musical tinkling. Penhoel
looked at her with the greatest admiration, and
hazarded a guess at the value of the jewels.

'I dare say, now,' he said, ' they're worth a
thousand francs.'

'What do you say?' exclaimed Jeanne,
almost angrily ; ' a thousand francs ! a hundred
thousand never bought them, you may be sure ;
nearer two hundred thousand I should say.'

The mere idea of such a sum fairly took
away Penhoel's breath, and indeed it startled
Sybil also.

Oh, Jeanne,' she said ; ' are they really
such valuable things ? I had no notion of that.
What can I do with them ? They are much
too splendid for a girl like me.'

They are not too splendid for Madame de
Eastacq " la jeune," ' said Jeanne, fondly
smoothing the dark, satin-like head of her
nursling, and gently removing the jewels from
her ears.

I will pack them up now,' said Sybil, ' for
I cannot stay more than an hour, and I've been
here three-quarters, chattering about myself all
the time too. Maman has gone to the presbyters,
and I know it is to talk about me. There, they
are quite safe in their bed now, and we'll talk
of something else.' She began to question
Jeanne about her neighbours, and what she
had been doing lately, and was very gay and
amusing until the hour had run out, when she
took leave of Jeanne and her husband, and ran
merrily down the green slope.

CHAPTER XXXI.

IX THE PASS OF THE DEVIL's ROCK.

As Jeanne opened the house-door for Sybil, a
sudden gust of wind blew that at which the
unseen listener had stood completely open.
He was no longer there. Jeanne, on going to
close this door, found the outer window of the
room also open. Penhoel explained, that
wanting some rushes while she and Babette
were out, he had made shift to get them, and
finding the store-room needed air, had hooked
back the window.

Naturally, the husband and wife talked of
Sybil and her diamonds.

It was a slip of the tongue that 1 made,'
said Jeanne ; ' but the sight of the necklace took
me by surprise. The Emperor Nicholas gave

that necklace to Madame when we were at St.
Petersburg, and she wore it at a grand dinner
at the Palace. I dressed her for the dinner,
and one of the opera people got a place for mein
a gallery, where I could see the great company
going into the dining-room. The Emperor
was a noble-looking man, with a stony
face, and the Empress had a fretful, frightened
look. I did not see one among them to come
up to my young lady. They said it was a
great honour for her, as she was only a public
singer, and so I suppose it was. The other
things were royal presents too, and when her
uncle heard of all the honour that was done
her, he sent her the silver casket to hold her
jewels. She never put on one of them since
the day her child was born, and I don't think
she ever looked at them. It cost her something,
I am sure, to take them out to-day, and
give them to our angel. But it was not a bad
way of preparing her for what is coming.'
I don't know much about the ways of the

gentlefolk,' said Penhoel ; ' but it seems to me,
if Monsieur quarrelled with Madame because
she would not leave the stage and take to a
quiet life in England, and for no other reason,
he might have made it up when she left the
stage of her own accord. Or else Monsieur
must have been very hard indeed.'

He was not that,' said Jeanne, who sat
looking at her stove, as though she were reading
a story in its polished delft face, and rubbing
her hands slowly ; ' he was not that ; but
he was a proud, quiet man, and one that could
never have been made to go from his word by
any one or anything. So, when Madame went
from her word, he was at first astonished, and
then, after a little, I suppose he said : " She
prefers her theatre-Hfe to her promise." That
was enough for him. I don't think she understood
him to the very last ; he was so grave
and so quiet. All my own troubles have not
taken that time out of my head : when the
anger went out of her. and the heartache came

ill ; when she would come home from the
theatre, with real bouquets and artificial
wreaths in her carriage, and throw herself into
a chair and cry until she was too tired to cry
any more. Ah, well ! her play-books, and the
wreaths they threw to her the last time, are all
that's left of that  she did not mind my keeping
them ; but she never spoke of it since.'

Jeanne rose, and looked in through the
glass doors of her cherished book-case. Her
little possessions were all in order. The
money-box still occupied its place among the
toys which had once been Sybil's. It was no
longer empty. In the peaceful months that
had elapsed since the reprobate son had ceased
to remind them of his existence, Jeanne had
again begun to save up for that rainy day
which French people bear in mind more
steadily than we, and which comes to them
more rarely.

Mavis worked at her drawing until the
stipulated hour had expired, when she replaced

her materials in their case, and began to lookout
for Sybil's appearance. The solitude of the
scene around her was complete ; her occupation
had slightly chilled her ; she was glad to catch
sight of Sybil, when, with her first steps upon
the planks, she emerged into view. Sybil
walked across the Giant's Stepping-Stones rapidly,
and, having turned into the sandy path
that led to the bank on which Mavis had been
sitting, was hidden by the willows. Mavis,
however, continued to gaze in the direction of
the Giant's Stepping-Stones, for now a second
figure, distinctly thrown out by the early afternoon
light, was crossing them. She recognised,
with a thrill of terror, the man whom she had
seen in the Pass the first time she visited it, on
the awful day that had brought her the news of
Jack's death. The man was stepping carefully
and slowly along the planks, turning his head
from side to side, as though to make sure that
he was not observed. Presently he paused 
and raising his hand to his forehead, seemed to
VOL. III. K .

be trying to see the path through the tree
stems ; now standing on his toes and craning
his neck, again stooping low, and looking
fixedly in the same direction. A sense of doom,
of malediction, crept over her at the mere sight
of this man. Another moment, and with the
recollection of the diamonds in Sybil's bag,
Mavis recognised the peril in which Sybil
and herself stood. Some strange intuition
came to her, and revealed what had occurred.
Jean Lebeau had been lurking about the cottage,
he had seen the diamonds, he had
watched Sybil, to discover whether she was
going back by the road, where a carriage would
be awaiting her, or returning alone by the way
through the Pass. Mavis knew the man could
not see Sybil from the Stepping-Stones, and
that she herself was hidden; but, if he was
tracking Sybil, he would come up with her in a
few minutes. She darted up the bank, reached
the narrow sandy footpath that wound through
the willows on one side and the rocks on the

other, saw Sybil below, not far off, and ran
towards her. Without slackening her speed
for an instant, she had opened her sketching-case,
and thrown its contents into the bushes.

Hush ! dear,' she said, in a panting whisper
; ' do not speak one word, and, for God's
sake, do as I tell you. You have been followed
by Jeanne's son.' While she was speaking, she
snatched the bag, and transferred its contents
to the sketching-case. This she forced into
Sybil's hands. ' I cannot run quickly  you cadi.
Nothing can save us from being overtaken by
him. Fly home vdth your diamonds ! fly for
your life! and bring help. Off! off! you
cannot help me. You risk our two lives by a
second's delay.'

Sybil understood, and obeyed her. It was
all said and done in a moment, and Sybil
darted away without a word. She had been
out of sight for some minutes, and Mavis
having, after an instant's thought, gathered up
a few handfuls of sand and put them into the

B 2

bag, was concealed behind the very same rock
that had once before hidden her from this
villain, before he appeared on the footpath.
That she could successfully elude him, supposing
her fears to be well-founded, would be
impossible, she knew. The ascending path
towards the chateau was visible from the point
he had reached for a much greater distance
than any woman could have attained in the
time since he lost sight of her, had that woman
been walking quietly and undismayed, as he
would suppose to be Sybil's case if she had no
suspicion that she was followed. If she was
not in view, she could only have left the path
on one side or the other, and he would merely
have to search for her within the circumscribed
space to which he would know she was limited.
A little time might be gained, but not much at
the best. Mavis's terror was extreme, but her
cool-headdress equalled it. The chance of
Sybil's getting safe heme depended on delay :
for if the villain should discover that the bag

did not contain the diamonds, he might easily
overtake Sybil before she could reach a place
of safety. Mavis had a bunch of keys in her
pocket ; she found a key that locked Sybil's
bag. She then crouched down under the
shadow of the rock, doubled her veil over her
face, and hugged the bag to her breast with all
the eager care that could be bestowed upon
a precious treasure, while she waited, with a
wildly-beating heart, for the approach of the
footsteps that were coming slowly and cautiously
up the footpath.

Mavis had not long to wait. Jean Lebeau,
on reaching the top of the acclivity, from which
the footpath was visible for a considerable distance,
looked ahead, saw nothing of his quarry,
and immediately began to beat the side of the
pass, with the stealthy accuracy of a sleuth-hound.
He had been experiencing some hardship
of late, to judge by his appearance. His
clothes were in an advanced stage of shabbiness,
and his florid face had lost its coarse stood

looks under th e influence of a free indulgence
in vice. The fixed ferocity of the eyes, the
animal expression of the strong white teeth
and thick vermilion-coloured lips were also
intensified. Altogether, a more remorseless,
consummate, and dangerous ruffian than the
man who wa.j drawing every moment nearer to
the brave girl who had so freely risked her
life for her friend, but yet shrank with natural
horror from the sacrifice, would have been hard
to find under the sun that day. Mavis closed
her eyes and prayed, as she heard him pushing
aside the branches of the trees on the opposite
side of the path. The oaths with which the
ruffian polluted the air, when he found that
Sybil had left the direct path, and therefore
concluded that she had seen him crossing
the Giant's Stepping-Stones, did not reach
Mavis's ears.

If she had told them,' he muttered, ' that
she had come this way, I could have slipped
away sooner, and might have been waiting for

her here. But how was I to know that she had
not a carriage at the top of the road, and was
not going back that way ? She has seen me
and taken fright ; and if she escapes me now,
I shall be signalled to the gendarmes, and notable
either to escape the country, or to pay ray
good mother and her cripple a visit unawares.
So much the worse for her, for I swear I will
have those diamonds, and her life with them, if
there's no other way of silencing her

He searched about for a few milites, during
which he went on muttering ferociously that
side could not be far off, and that he would be
even with Madame, who had recommended his
mother to wash her hands of him, and to let
him come to the scaffold his own way. The
beating of Mavis's heart was so violent that she
could hardly keep her hold upon the bag. She
began to feel that she was fainting just as he
crossed the pathway and made for the rock
behind which she was crouching. In a moment
he had seized her by the shoulder, and she,

Uttering a cry like that of a hare caught by a
greyhound, crouched down still lower, with the
desperate purpose of hiding her face. He held
her with one hand, and tugged at the bag with
the other ; but she clutched it with a desperate
strength. The struggle was, however, a brief
one ; he tore the bag from her hands, and flung
her upon the ground, while her despairing
scream ran vainly through the solitude of the
great pass. But as she fell her hat dropped off,
and the ruffian saw her face. It was not Sybil's.
It was the face of a stranger, of one who did
not know him, who could not identify him. In
an instant he resolved not to commit a useless
crime, a crime that must increase his danger a
hundredfold. How the bag had changed hands
he neither knew nor cared ; he had sot it. He
struck the prostrate girl with his heavy foot, and
rushed away with his booty.

Dazed, trembling with terror, almost incredulous
of her escape, Mavis staggered to her
feet, and supported herself against the rock.

Her dress was torn, her hands were bleeding,
her senses were confused. She had no notion
how much time had elapsed, when the ruffian
once more rushed up to where she stood, held
up before her eyes the black bag, slit through
and empty, cried, as he flung it away : ' Take
that for your infernal cunning ! ' and struck at
lier fiercely with a knife. She fell instantly,
and Lebeau, leaning over her, was just about
to repeat the stroke, when the deep bay of a
bloodhound and the shouts of men broke upon
the silence.

The assassin turned, and fled down the Pass.
He reached the Giant's Stepping Stones, and
was about to cross, when he was arrested by the
sight of his mother, hurrying over from the
other side. Jeanne knew the bay of the bloodhound
from the Chateau de la Dame Blanche,
and as its deep and piercing sound was borne
across the river, she had rushed out of the
cottage in terror of she knew not what. The
reprobate, balked thus, shrank back, and hid

himself. His mother passed close by him,
running wildly up the path which he had just
trodden. Fearing to cross the Stepping-Stones
now, lest he might be seen, he muttered to
himself : ' It's better so, the scent will be lost in
the water,' crept under the shelter of the willows
lower down the bank, and plunged into the
river. The deep bay of the hound was in his
ears, the violent surging of his blood, driven by
fierce passions, by the despair produced by a
vain crime, by the defeat of his scheme of robbery,
and by his utter penury and outcast state,
made a hideous ringing in his head. He battled
with it with furious curses ; and, being completely
hidden from view on the other side by
the Stepping-Stones, struck out well to the
middle of the river. Here a current caught
him, and his strength suddenly failed. A bloodred
flash before his eyes, a shock as though his
head had burst open, and Jean Lebeau was at
the mercy of the water. It sucked him under
the ledge of the Devil's Eock, and carried him

down to the noisy confusion of the rapid below ;
but he was dead before the rocks and the foaming
whirlpool got him, and what they did to
him was of no account.

*****

A noble bloodhound came tearing down
the pass, followed by four men, and, at some
distance, by two panting women, Eliza Blount
and Sybil. When Jeanne reached the spct
where Mavis lay, the dog and the men were
beside her. Jeanne pushed her way among
them, and knelt by the girl's side.

Is she dead, Madame Jeanne ? ' asked one
of the men, the head-gardener, with great awe
in his voice.

Keep Mademoiselle away,' said Jeanne,
peremptorily ; ' and stand back, all of you.'

She raised the senseless figure tenderly, and
examined it with a skilful hand. The position
of the wound revealed itself by the blood that
was oozing through a cut in the cloth dress, and
Jeanne called lo one of the men to hurry off

and bring Dr. Eenouf to the spot with all
speed.'

Is she alive ? '

It was Sybil who spoke. She had resisted
the attempt to keep her from Mavis.

Yes, she is alive. But how long will she
live here in the cold, unless we can move her ? '

While she spoke, Jeanne had cut open the
front of Mavis's gown, and was staunching the
blood with Sybil's handkerchief. The knife
had struck just below the collar-bone, and, but
for the thickness of the dress, would no doubt
have inflicted an instantly fatal wound. Consciousness
was returning, and with it came pain.
Mavis's face twitched, and she moaned heavily.
Sybil dropped on her knees and wrung her
hands.

Can I do nothing, nothing for her ? ' she
groaned ; ' for her who has given her life forme?'


Jeanne looked up from her task in amazement.
What did Sybil mean ?

If some brandy could be got,' suggested
Eliza Blount, who had run down to the river
and brought up a dripping handkerchief.

Eun, my angel, run to the house,' said
Jeanne ; 'the brandy is in the pression know
where. Put your hand in my pocket, you will
find the key. Take this good woman with you,'
she added, as Sybil rose from her knees, ' and
send her back with the bottle, and a blanket,
and my pocket-case. Do you stay, tell Penhoel
what has happened, and get the box-bed ready,
for we must take her there, if we only can take
her anywhere alive. Bun ! run ! '

The three men were looking on helplessly ;
the dog was sniffing about the ground, but
noiselessly, waiting orders from one of the men
whom he was accustomed to obey ; this man,
in his turn, seemed to be waiting orders from
Jeanne.

He can't be far off that did this,' said he ;
hadn't we better go after him ? '

Mavis opened her eyes, fixed them with a

wildly-imploring look on Jeanne's face, and
whispered : 

No, no  let no one leave me.'

Jeanne lead no suspicion of the meaning of
that look, but her mind was busy with a suggestion
which seconded Mavis's wish. The
wild eyes had closed again ; a cold wind was
rising, the means of stanching the wound were
so imperfect, that the blood was still oozing
from it. Waiting there for the doctor's coming,
meant waiting until his aid would be too late.

Could we carry her across the Steppingstones,
when we have the blanket to wrap her
in ? It's life or death ; if she is shaken or
frightened, all is over.'

It's death to keep her here,' said one of
the men. ' We will try it.'

Jeanne continued her efforts, and in a very
short time Eliza Blount appeared. Some
brandy was cautiously administered to the
sufferer, and with every possible precaution
she was tightly wrapped in the blanket ; then

the women placed her on the outstretched
arms of two of the men, and took up their own
positions, one on either side of her, with their
hands joined beneath her. It was a difficult
task they had undertaken ; the man at her feet
would have to walk backwards all the way, the
two women sideways. Eliza Blount was not
familiar with the Giant's Step ping-Stones ; she
had just crossed and recrossed them for the
first time. Would her nerves prove as good as
ner will ?

Don't do it, if you're nervous,' said Jeanne ;
let Etienne come opposite me.'

'Etienne is too tall. I am not nervous.'
'Don't look at the water.'
No fear ; I shall only look at her.'
The English maid's speaking of French was
still elementary, but Jeanne made out her
meaning, and trusted the pity and gratitude
that spoke in her plain Saxon face, in the
universal language of the human heart. Jeanne
had written on a card, ' She has been taken to

Penhoel's cottage : please follow ; ' and placed
it on the rock under which the wounded girl
lay, where it could not fail to attract the
doctor's attention. As the bearers made their
first painful steps towards the sandy footpath,
the man at the head nodded to Etienne, and
glanced at the dog. They might begin their
hunt for the criminal now.

*****

The bearers carried Mavis, unconscious
again, but still breathing, into the basket-maker's
cottage, and found such preparation
as there was the means of making, complete.
Sybil had told all to Penhoel, whose grief and
horror were extreme. While Sybil's hands
were busy with the things that would be
needed, Penhoel had eagerly questioned her.
How could Jean have known what she carried
in her bag ? How came he, unseen, unnoticed,
about the place ? Whenever he had previously
come to trouble their peace, he had done it in
the most open and ruthless way. Why had he

hidden himself this time ? Sybil hit on the
truth :

Perhaps this time he came not to cajole or
bully his mother but to rob her ; and so hid
himself in the house. If he knew where she
kept her money, he could have got it in her
absence, before your very face, you know ; you
could not have prevented him, and if you would
have called for help, there is no one to hear
you.'

That is true ; it must have been so. Ah,
I have it ! The soft touch on the latch that I
took for yours  he, peeping to see whether I
was alone ; the soft step inter the window 
this proving wolf's tread ! He entered by the
window that I had opened ! Did you see him ?
Can you swear to him, when they take him ? '

No, I did not see him, it was Marguerite
who saw him, and ran to me and saved me.
You know she saw him in the Pass once before.'

Poor Jeanne ! poor mother ! The worst
we ever feared was not so bad as this,'

VOL. III. S

His head sank upon his breast. He was
overwhelmed by the calamity that had fallen
upon his wife, and by his own powerlessness to
help her. The miserable wretch had indeed
gone his own way to the scaffold. If Penhoel
had but known that the justice of man had no
more to do with the reprobate, that even then
the hound had traced him to the water's edge,
but the river and the rocks had been his executioners,
he would have dreaded less to see his
wife. When she came, there was nothing to
be thought of for the moment but the sufferer.
The wound was dressed by Jeanne ; Sybil
bravely mastered her emotion, and rendered
great aid. The hardest part of her task was
to leave her brave friend, not even knowing
what the doctor would say of her chance of
life ; but Jeanne was peremptory.

'Madame will have come home, and you
only can tell her the truth. You only can
make her believe that you are quite safe ; that
she is not deceived. You must go. One of

the men to take care of you  how do we
know where the assassin may be ? The other
to remain here to take the doctor's orders to
the village, and the doctor's opinion to the
chateau ; Eliza Blount to help me with the
patient.'

Maman will come herself, you'll see.'

'I hope she will not, until tomorrow
morning, if Dr. Eenouf gives us hope. Quiet
is the best chance. Beg her from me not to
come unless I send for her.'

But, Nurse Jeanne  to stay away from
her who saved my life ! '

Again Jeanne looked at her in amazement,
and Sybil was confused. Bidding Jeanne ask
Penhoel, for he knew it all, she hurried away
with her escort.

The doctor had come, and pronounced it
possible that, with great care, the patient might
live. There was even more to be feared from.
the shock to the nerves than from the wounds

2

the case was extremely critical. He carried
his report to the chateau himself, and found
another patient there. Sybil, spent with emotion
and fatigue, was ill.

Even if it were otherwise right,' said the
doctor, authoritatively, ' you cannot leave your
daughter, Madame. You are the only person
in the house except Gregoire who has got
any head, and you will have to use it for
Mademoiselle, who has quite lost her own.'

Gregoire proved his claim to the doctor's
eulogium that night. He laid hands on the
sketching-case which Sybil had flung down in
the hall, and locked it up with the plate.

Nobody asks, or cares, what has become
of them, just now,' said the sagacious old man
to himself, 'but diamonds are diamonds, and
thieves are thieves. Until I can suggest the
strong coffer again, I will do the best I can
with the plate-chest.'

Night settled down upon the sufferers and

the watchers in the chateau and in the cottage.
With heavy care, with painful thought in every
line of her pale fixed face, Madame Vivian
kept watch by the side of her daughter, as she
tossed and moaned in feverish unrest. What
a vigil that was, with the vision before her all
the long night of her child's escape and that
which had purchased it ! If only that life, so
generously risked, to save the treasure and
delight of her own, should be granted to
her prayers and tears, henceforth Marguerite
Warne should be to her as a daughter.

Early in the morning, word was brought to
Madame Vivian that the body of Jean Lebeau
had been recovered from the river, and recognised.
She knew then that the worst was
known to her faithful Jeanne, and when they
met, no words were needed to tell each that
the heart of the other was but more closely
knit to her by their common calamity.

The night had passed at the cottage in

alternations of hope and fear, but in the morning
hope prevailed. It was just at dawn that
Eliza Blount, listening to the few words uttered
now and then by Mavis in English, and trying
to make out whether she was expressing any
wish, caught certain names, repeated over andover,
and observed that the sufferer frequently
moved her left hand feebly to her neck, and
felt about it with her fingers. She drew
Jeanne's attention to this, and added that
whatever she was seeking, the want of it
certainly distressed her.

I have it,' said Jeanne, after a little consideration
; ' it must be this.' She produced
from her pocket a small object hung on a
velvet ribbon. ' I took it off when the doctor
wanted to examine the wound. The ribbon is
dabbled and stiff with blood.'

It's a seal. Put it on a fresh ribbon, and
let her have it. She will never rest without it.'

What she says is all in English,' said

Jeanne. ' That is as it was before, when she
was ill, and we thought she had taken the
fever from you. Is it anything she wants? '

'I don't know. She says nothing but
names.'

What names ? '

'Father! Sarah! Jack!'

CHAPTER Xxxi.

IN THE BALANCE.

The perplexity of Madame Vivian was equal
to her distress. She had become so accustomed
to associate Miss Warne with herself and Sybil
in all things, that she had ceased to think of
the untold story in her life. She was, however,
forced to think of it now ; for the girl lay
between life and death, and she had no
knowledge of her kin. She had written to
Miss Metre so soon as the first horror and
confusion had subsided ; but she hoped little
from this, it was only a measure of relief to
herself.

The third day had elapsed, and Madame
Vivian had returned to the chateau after a visit
of several hours to the cottage. There was no

change in Mavis. The doctor had said, in a
matter-of-course way, that it would be well to
communicate with her relations.

Madame Vivian reluctantly decided that
she must seek among Miss Warne's effects fora
clue to any persons who had a right to be
informed of her state, and she had taken away
her keys.

The search was quickly accomplished.
Madame Vivian began by examining the
writing-table. The drawer disclosed the packet
on which Mavis had written the direction that,
in case of her death, it should be burned, unopened.
Laying this aside, Madame Vivian
continued her investigation, but without result.
The packet which presumably contained the
information she so earnestly desired to obtain,
was inviolable, and not the slightest trace was
afforded by anything else. The risk of asking
the sufferer a disturbing question would be too
great, even were it certain that she could take
in its meaning. Nothing could be done.

In the basket-maker's humble cottage
Mavis lay, tended by the woman whose
gratitude she had earned, and by the mother
of the ruffian whose hand had laid her low,
while she was watched with the deepest
solicitude by the mother of the girl whose life
she had saved. It was only by degrees, after
her daughter had rallied from the shock and
bewilderment of the occurrence, that Madame
Vivian realised what had happened up to the
moment when Sybil left Mavis, at her entreaty,
and flew homewards for help. The after
incidents were never made clear, except in
their results, for Mavis could not bear to speak
of them for Jeanne's sake. With indescribable
feelings Sybil's mother contemplated the young
girl who had not hesitated to do that ' great
thing,' the laying down life for a friend, and
knew that she might pass out of mortal sight
without its being possible for her to say a word
of her ineffable wonder, gratitude, and admiration.
All words that she could ever speak

would be SO feeble, that she sometimes felt it
would be foolish to attempt any. If Marguerite
lived she would simply tell her that a daughter's
rights were hers henceforth, in that home
which but for her would have been left
desolate.

When Madame de Eastacq heard what had
occurred, she suspended those rules of strict
etiquette on which the relations between the
two families were at present maintained, and
came over to the Chateau de la Dame Blanche
in a neutral capacity. Eene had at once put
himself out of the reach of temptation and
vexation by going away on a visit.

Madame de Eastacq was sincerely fond of
Sybil, and her prejudice against Miss Warne
gave way before the more amiable sentiment.
She admitted freely that the ' oiseau bleu '
had justified Madame Vivian's estimate of her.
She dwelt, too, upon her own sympathy with
Madame Vivian's feelings towards the preserver
of her child  did she not owe an equal debt of

gratitude to that gallant Englishman who had

saved her son, after Inkerman, and had so

narrowly escaped death himself? And was she

not all impatience until she should have the

satisfaction of receiving him at her house ?

Was there not in this remarkable coincidence

yet another bond between the mother of her

charming Sybil and herself? The name of the

gallant Englishman was not mentioned, although

it was to be presumed Madame de Eastacq had

mastered it by that time. Once more Madame

Vivian skirted the edge of discovery ; once

more she turned out of the way that led to it.
*****

The morning of the fourth day brought hope
to the watchers in the cottage, and to the lady
of the chateau such overwhelming agitation as
she had not believed she could ever again feel.

She had reckoned that she might have
news of M. Eeveillon's mission on that day,
but did not expect to hear more than that he
had made the necessary explanation to Mr

Dexter, and secured the transmission of her
letter to Mr. Bassett. She was alone, and had
just received a written report of the patient's
condition from Jeanne, when the mornings's
letters were brought to her. There was the
expected missive from M. Eeveillon, and one
other. At sight of this Madame Vivian stood
as though turned to stone. Eighteen years of
her life were swept out of remembrance by the
touch of that paper, by the sight of that handwriting.
She fought with the faintness that
was stealing over her, and she also resisted the
quick whisper of hope that said to her : ' If it
where a refusal, he would have sent it through
Eeveillon.' She was afraid of hope ; the
revenges which disappointment takes for the
entertainment of it are so merciless ! At length
she rallied her courage, and carried her
husband's letter into her oratory. Whatever
the award might be that awaited her with the
breaking of its seal, she could bear it better
there.

It was a full hour before Madame Vivian
summoned Gregoire and asked for Sybil. She
had gone quite early to the cottage, under
escort of the servant who was despatched
thither each morning to bring back tidings
of the night. The old man looked at his
mistress with unconcealed wonder. She caught
her breath while giving him directions to have
the pony-carriage got ready as quickly as possible
; her usually steadfast authoritative look
was wandering ; but yet there was an air of
elation about her, unfamiliar at any time, especially
discordant with the mortal anxiety of
the last few days.

She is better, Maman,' said Sybil, meeting
her mother at the cottage door ; ' she has been
quiet all night, and I think she knows me this
morning. I am sure she knows Jeanne, for
she opened her eyes and looked at her so pitifully.
I will tell you what I did ; I whispered
very distinctly in Marguerite's ear, " Her son is
gone away for ever ; they cannot punish him "

I'm sure she understood. Jeanne thinks so
too ; for the next time Jeanne touched her, she
leaned her cheek against her hand quite as if
she meant it.'

The watchers were right. That night the
balance had turned in favour of life, very
slightly, but still sufficiently to justify hope.

Leaving Sybil with the patient, Madame
Vivian had a private conference with Jeanne.
She made no attempt to console her faithful
servant for a grief beyond consolation on one
side of it  the grave of the reprobate son was
too new but she gave her that to think of
which would surely bring her comfort.

Good news for me is good news for you,'
she said ; ' this is the best news you have
heard for many a day. Sybil's father is
coming to the chateau to make acquaintance
with his daughter, and to sanction her
marriage.'

Eh, mon Dieu 1 is it possible ? '

It is true ; he will be here in a few da3s.

No one knows this but myself and you. I am
going to take Sybil home and tell her.'

She will be quite confounded.'

Madame Vivian had succeeded in turning
Jeanne's thoughts into a fresh channel. After
some time she took Sybil away. Jeanne stood
at the door and watched the mother and
daughter as they walked up the steep road to
the place where the carriage awaited them.

She looks ten years younger since yesterday,
and I never saw such a colour in her face,
since she used to get it out of her rouge-pots.
Dear, dear, what a crooked thing life is ! '

Sybil was so elated by the improvement in
the patient, so full of sanguine hope, that she
chattered to her mother gaily ; making plans
for Marguerite's benefit when she could be
moved to the chateau. The carriage was
stopped at the presbyters, and Madame Vivian
went in alone. The Cure heard with satisfactions
that his advice had been justified by
results, and gave his attention to the other

matter that was troubling Madame Vivian. He
fully recognised the gravity of it.

If she dies without revealing anything,'
he said, ' you are helpless and blameless. But
I think that will not be so. If she recovers
your intentions towards her entitle you to hex
fullest confidence. So much as this I may
say,' he added, answering Madame Vivian's
questioning, yet hesitating, look, 'I am convinced
that nothing in that confidence would
affect your intentions if you were in possession of
it now ; also, that when I received her into the
Church no names or places were mentioned.'

The Cure accompanied Madame Vivian to
the gate. Half way down the walk he stopped :
Stay ! ' said he ; ' did you not say that your
husband's English lawyer and old friend is
coming with him to regulate all these affairs ? '

'Yes.'

Very well, then. So soon as Mademoiselle
Warne is able to see me, I will advise her to
consult the English lawyer.'

VOL. III. T

He spoke a few words to Sybil, and the

carriage moved on. ' The lawyer will find someway

of getting at her father, and proving her

story,' said the Cure to himself ; ' it all lies in

that.'

* * * *

Oh, mother ! is it all possible ? is it all
true ? I can't  I can't take it into my mind
that I have a father who has never seen me,
and a brother ; and that I never knew it until
to-day. I feel bewildered.'

You must not agitate yourself. I have
told you to-day so that you may be quiet and
get used to the idea before your father comes
to us. We must not distress him, you know ;
we must be quite calm.'

But I can't be calm. To think that he is
my own father, and yet a perfect stranger.
To think that I ought to have been talking to
him all my life, and that I shall not know how
to say a word to him ! And he will think of
me only as a strange young lady ! '

Madame Vivian winced from the pain of
these words, so true, so unconsciously uttered.

'Yes, yes, you will know how to talk to
him ; and be quite sure he will think of you
only as what you are.'

But, Maman, he can't love me, you know.
And suppose I had died, any time, as a little
child, or now, he would not have been sorry
for me ! '

Hush, hush, I cannot bear it. Don't say
such things. Do you think I have not thought
the same many times ? Don't reproach me too
bitterly, my child.'

Reproach you, mother ! ' exclaimed Sybil ;
how could such a thought ever come into my
mind ? How could you imagine I shoukl ever
believe that the fault was yours ? '

But it was, dearest, it was. When you
are a good and happy wife you will understand
what I have told you ; you will see that it was
for want of " the grace of state " your mother
lost all the happiness of her life. And you will

I 2

learn by that, my dear. Ah, my God, my
God, if only one human being in this world
could really be taught by the experience of
another and saved by that teaching, it would
be well, well worth it.'

She had departed from the quiet firmness
with which she had told her story to her
daughter, and Sybil was startled by the change.

She turned very pale ; but said nothing.
Madame Vivian instantly checked herself, and
resumed with calmness :

I have told you my story badly, dear, if
I have left you in any doubt that the fault
was all mine ; you must take my word for
that  '

I cannot, mother,' Sybil interrupted, with
a decision quite new to her, ' even at your
bidding. I have known you, remember, all
my life. You cannot do away with that, and
it settles the question. But it is not for me to
ask, or to know, or to think, where the blame
lay. No  no  don't stop me ; let me say my

say. I will not displease you, I will not disappoint
you, but I cannot believe that the best
mother in the whole world was not the best
wife also.'

What could the mother do but hold her in
her arms and let it be so? She could trust
to time to make Sybil love her father. The
questions, the surmises, the wondering of the
girl were inexhaustible, and in them, the first
agitation past, Madame Vivian found relief.
Her mother's own story was a source of endless
wonder to Sybil. She would sit on her
footstool and gaze at her, trying to picture her
in stage robes, holding a great audience captive
by the spell of her singing. She was partly
amused and partly confused at the recollection
of her complacent assumption that her mother
knew nothing about music, and reminded her
of it.

You must have made a very strong resolution,
Maman, and held to it very firmly ; fur
I have never heard you sing a note.'

I have never sung since you were born.
I lost my voice some time before. One day
I will tell you all about the last time I ever
used it

And the diamonds? ' asked Sybil, suddenly,
struck by another remembrance  'were they
given to you as a great singer ? '

Yes ; you shall know all that too, intime.'


But this ? ' she touched the ruby and
diamond ring her mother always wore  'was
this given to you as a great singer ? '

'Yes  and no. It was your father's first
gift to me.'

And you put everything away from you,
except that ! '

She said no more, but turned the ring softly
about on her mother's finger. She was thinking
; if this meant that her mother had never
ceased to love the living husband she had
lost, what a wasted life had been endured, very
nobly, under her own eyes. How much that

had vaguely perplexed her was now made
plain !

And it was all owing to Eene that this
wrong was about to be righted. It was for her
sake and his ! Sybil was far from understanding
all that had been staked upon her mother's
appeal to her father ; she was quite content
with the knowledge that those horrid questions
of 'papers,' money, and business, which had
interrupted her happiness in its dawn, were to
be settled by this revelation. She pictured to
herself her lover's wonder and content ; she
arranged the meeting between her father and
Eene. Her mother, amid the tumult of her
mind, could find pleasure in observing that she
was growing familiar with the idea of her
father, and his place among them all.

I wish you could describe him to me,
Maman. I want to know what he's like. Am
I like him ? '

I think not.'

Am I like my brother ? '

I do not know.'

What is my brother's name ? Is he
coming too ? '

No. He is abroad. His name is John.
He is an officer in the English army.'

Is he a captain, like Eene ? Captain John
Vivian  what a nice name! '

No, no, my darling, not Vivian. I have
not told you all. Vivian was my own name.
Your father's name is Basse tt. Your brother is
Captain John Bassett.'

Sybil sprang up.

Maman ! is he in the Infantry ? In the
Eifle Brigade ? Was he at Inkerman . '

Yes, and severely wounded. Why do you
ask ? Does Bene know him ? '

Know him ! Why, mother, Eene has

talked of him to me a hundred times ! It was

he. Captain John Bassett, who searched among

the dead for Eene after the battle, and saved

his life I '

*****

The improvement in Mavis's state was
maintained. On the day of the expected
arrival of Mr. Bassett and Mr. Dexter, the
over-burthened mind of Madame Vivian obtained
relief on that point, for Dr. Eenouf
pronounced his patient ' saved ! ' Sybil was
full of all she should have to tell Marguerite,
but had been forbidden by Dr. Eenouf to say
anything for the present. How the hours of
that day passed neither the mother nor the
daughter could have told ; but they did pass,
and there came a moment when the two stood,
pale and silent, listening to footsteps crossing
the outer hall towards the salon. The next,
the husband and wife met, and Sybil's mother
placed her in her father's arms.

It was interesting to Mr. Dexter to observe
how the Squire took to his daughter, and how
Sybil took to the Squire. They studied each
other ; they talked, they walked together ;

they were on perfectly comfortable terms in
what would have been an impossibly short
time to persons of less simplicity of character
and greater self-consciousness than those two.
Mr. Dexter had not now to learn for the first
time how complete is the surrender of pride
and obstinacy in a fine nature, when conscience
has got the better of them both ; but he was
touched by this example.

Sybil's curiosity about Jack was inexhaustible.
Would he Uke her, did her father think ?
How soon could he come to them? The
special business that had led to the present
state of things was left to the arrangement of
Madame Vivian and Mr. Dexter. Eene was
summoned, and Madame de Eastacq was
apprised that the stipulated delay was at an
end.

Mr. Dexter had kept his discovery about
Bassett to himself ; it was for the perpetrator of
that pious fraud to explain and excuse it. He
did not doubt that she would do so effectually.

even though Mr. Bassett's pride stood in her
way. How perfect was the tact with which
she behaved ; how easy the matter-of-course
way in which she put the Squire at the head of
the house ! If she had only managed him as
well in the early days as she did now, the
intervening years might have been happy.

Madame Vivian took an early opportunity
of bringing the subject of Miss Warne before
the Squire and Mr. Dexter. Mr. Bassett was
eagerly interested in the story, and as anxious
as his wife that all it was in their power todo
should be done. Mr. Dexter, with a professional
reserve on the point of the prudence
of Madame Vivian's acceptance of Miss Warne
in the first instance, was clearly of opinion that
it was now necessary to ascertain whether she
had any one belonging to her. He was ready
to adopt the suggestion of the Cure. ' Considering
all the circumstances  ' he said, ' the
assurance given by Dr. Chad, the absence of
communication between Miss Warne and anyone

outside your own circle, and her silence,
while living on the best of terms with you, I
am convinced that the secret she is keeping is
not her own.'

The wonderful news which Sybil was longing
to impart to her friend could not yet be
told with safety, although Mavis was steadily
gaining strength, and the sight of strange faces
would still be too much for her. The gentlemen
might, however, accompany Madame
Vivian and Sybil to the cottage.

They descended into the Pass, and divided
into couples. Sybil took Mr. Dexter in hand
this time ; the Squire walked with his wife
through the winding ways, and talked to her
as to an old and trusted friend  yet not of
themselves, or of the past as it concerned them.
He told her Jack's story, and she listened with
the deepest interest. Her husband's beloved
son must be a fine, resolute young fellow ; was
the girl worthy of him ? Was his absolute
confidence well-founded Had she forsaken

him, or was she dead? The subject was so
engrossing, that the scene through which they
passed hardly attracted the Squire's attention
at all, until they reached a spot where Sybil
and Mr. Dexter were waiting for them to come
up. Sybil's eyes were full of tears. She pointed
to a rock in the sand and said :

It was there, father.'

Penhoel was sitting in the front of the
cottage, and gave them good news of the
patient. The Squire and Mr. Dexter remained
with him, and presently Jeanne came out.
She looked in some uncertainty at the two
grey-haired gentlemen. Which of them was
the handsome Englishman with the grand look,
who had married her beloved mistress, and left
her, for a broken promise, all those years ago ?
The Squire saying, ' Jeanne ! do you remember
me ? ' put out his hand. She saw the grand
look and the smile, and the bent figure with
the grey hair puzzled her no longer. Jeanne
was followed in a few minutes by Sybil.

Father,' she said, ' Marguerite is fast asleep,
and she looks almost like herself again. Come
with me and look at her. Maman says you
may.' The Squire followed his daughter into
the house.

Mavis had been removed from the airless
box-bed to a couch sent from the cheau,
and there she lay, almost as white as her
pillow, in a deep calm sleep. One thin hand
lay on the coverlet by her side; the other,
lightly closed, rested on her neck. The brow
was smooth, the lips were slightly parted,
the face wore a restful look of relief from
pain.

The Squire, with Sybil's hand upon his arm,
stood by the side of the couch, and gazed intently
upon the sleeping girl At the far end
of the kitchen Eliza Blount was speaking in a
whisper to Madame Vivian.

She is getting clear in her mind,' said the
woman ; ' this morning she spoke to Jeanne in
French. She will do now.'

The sleeper moved slightly. The Squire
drew back, lest she might awake. The closed
hand opened, and dropped at her side. She
turned her head, and a small object which had
been covered by her hand fell from a loosened
ribbon on her neck upon the floor, but without
disturbing her.

The Squire picked up the small object, and,
turning to lay it on a table, looked at it,

It is a seal she always wears, Jeanne tells
me,' whispered Sybil. ' I had better put it
back upon the ribbon; I will not wake
her.'

The Squire took no notice of what she said,
but went out of the door and addressed Mr.
Dexter :

Look here. Dexter, this is Jack's seal ; he
always wore it. It has just fallen from Miss
Warne's neck. He told me he had given it
to Mavis Wynn. Come with me and look at
her.'

The Squire, trembling with excitement, took

Mr. Dexter by the arm, and led him up to the
couch. The deep beneficent repose of the
sleeper was still undisturbed.

Mr. Dexter looked at her, drew back for a
moment, looked again, and made, on tiptoe, for
the door. The Squire followed him, the women
gazing at them in wonder.

Yes, Squire, that girl is Mavis Wynn

'If only Jack were here,' said the Squire
to his wife, while yet the solemn joy of the
discovery was full upon them all. ' If only
Jack were here, and his mind at rest ! '

It is better, believe me, that there should
be a little delay. He will not have to suffer
from seeing her as an invalid, and in her
present state she could not be allowed to
know that he was here. Remember that she
has believed him to be dead for nearly two
years ! '

The Squire shrank from the recollection of
the few minutes during which he too had
believed the same.

'Oh, mother,' said Sybil, in an awe-struck
voice, ' how is she to be told ? It might kill
her.'

I think we must leave that for Jack to
decide, dear ; but do not fear  it will not kill
her.'

VOL Til

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

THE lover's Creed.

Here's the old place, and it looks very much
as if we were not expected. I hope there's
nothing wrong.'

Jack Bassett jumped out of the fly that had
brought Jeffrey and himself from Chester, and
knocked vigorously at the door on the Farm-side.
It was opened by Mr. Eeckitts. He was
greatly surprised to see Captain Bassett, and
told him that his arrival had not been expected,
at least to the knowledge of the farmer, who
had seen Miss Nestle not half an hour previously.


Very odd,' said Jack. ' My father ought to
have had my letter a week ago.'

It's two weeks since the Squire's been gone.'

'Gone! Where?'

To France, I believe, Captain.'

To France ! Where's Miss Xestle ? '

I can't say. Shall I let you through with
my key, and then see to your luggage . '

In this odd fashion Jeffrey was introduced
to Fieldflower Farm.

Well ! ' said Mr. Eeckitts to himself, ' what
a thing travelling is, to be sure ! There's the
Captain been away to the far end of the
world, and he comes home no more uppish
than if he'd been to Liverpool and back by
parliamentary.'

Do you mean to say, Nestyy, that you don't
know where my father is ? ' said Jack, when
Miss Nestle had 'come to' after the fright
which his sudden appearance at the top of the
.stairs had given her. Trotty Veck's welcome
by this time had subsided from the barking to
the snorting stage.

I don't, indeed. Never did the Squire
leave me in such trouble of mind before.'

'You're sure he was quite well when he
went to London ? '

He was quite well ; only worrying about
you, as usual, Mr. Jack. I'm sure anyone
would think there was no clothes wanted in
France ; for he sent for no more luggage than
he took with him to London.'

And what did he go to London for ? '

'He went ' here Miss Nestle hesitated 
he went  well, it was on your business, Mr.
Jack. The Squire thought Mr. Dexter could
help him to get what you wanted done before
you came home.'

An expressive glance at Jeffrey accompanied
this explanation.

Never mind Mr. Jeffrey, Nestyy ; he knows
all about it. Mr. Jeffrey is Miss Wynn's
cousin, and he knows what a dear old friend
you are, too.'

Miss Nestle acknowledged the introduction
to Miss Wynn's cousin, with a curtsy of the
good old kind now extinct.

Then, Mr. Jack, I need not say any more,
and I will just see to your dinner. Mr.
Jeffrey's room is quite prepared for him.'

It has been ready since the day my father
told her it might be wanted in a few months or
so,' said Jack. ' She is the dearest old soul in
the world ; and if you only praise Belshazzar,
the parrot  a demon, if ever there Alas one ina
beak and feathers  you will be a favourite
with her at once.'

Miss Nestle's few words had raised Jack's
hopes. The Squire's absence, thus accounted
for, was no evil ; but what had he heard that
had induced him to go to Londoner This
question could not receive an answer to-day.
That night Jack would write to Mr. Dexter.

He was the first to enter the Dame's
Parlour. He thought, bitterly enough, of the
assured hope with which he had left the old
room where he and Mavis had plighted their
troth, and of the blank defeat he had encountered.
Still, his heart was not heavy.

The oceans that had divided them divided
them no longer ; the search might be difficult,
but at least it would not begin in a deception.
Besides, his father might be on the track
already.

He turned over the papers symmetrically
arranged on a speckless table. Nothing very
interesting among them. The usual circulars,
bills, notices, a few letters from brother officers,
and one from De Eastacq. Ah, that was a
lucky fellow ; his affairs were going well ;
nothing but a formal delay about the business
of the ' dot ' to trouble him. A few weeks
would probably see him married to the charming
Mademoiselle Vivian. Had ever the course
of true love run so smooth as for this pairs
De Eastacq was not sure about Jack's leave,
but hoped he would contrive to pay them his
promised visit in time for the marriage, which
Eene would hurry on as fast as Madame Vivian
would permit, on the score of the expiry of his
own leave.

I don't know about going there,' said Jack
to himself, ruefully ; ' I'm very glad for

De Kastacq's sake, but I Hullo! What's

the matter? '

Look here ! ' said Jeffrey, who had clattered
downstairs in a violent hurry, and now burst into
the room in his shirt-sleeves, with a bundle of
papers in his hand. ' I found these in my room
letters sent on from Ottawa by Scarsdale.
What do you think is amongst them ?  A note
from Mavis ! Hurrah ! she's found ! she's
found ! I say, Bassett, don't look so white
and wild. You stood all the rest so well ;
don't give in now.'

Jack put out his hand, and Jeffrey, with a
dubious look at him, gave him the letter in
which Mavis had recommended Jane Price and
her husband to the good offices of her cousin.

" Chateau de la Dame Blanche, near
Quimperle, Finisterre." ' Jack read aloud detached
sentences, with heaving breast and
uncertain voice  ' "I am settled here as companion

to Mademoiselle Vivian. Her mother
is a kind friend to me. . . . My father is in
Australia. Mrs. Jackson will tell you all about
me. I should be glad to hear of your welfare.
. . ." Why, Jeffrey, she is living close
to the very place I am invited to, and this
Miss Vivian is the girl De Eastacq is to marry.'

'You're looking better, my dear fellow,'
said Jeffrey, irrelevantly. ' It's an extraordinary
thing, and I am more than glad. It has been
a roundabout way of getting an address, hasn't
it .? And now I'll go and put my coat on.'

With this, Jeffrey left Jack to himself, and
returned to his room ; pondering on the surprising
and obstinate constancy of this youi)g
man, and the simple solution of the problem
that had balked them for so long, and involved
them in so much.

But Jack, with the beloved handwriting
pressed to his lips, fervently and humbly
thanked God.

Will you stay here, and let Miss Nestle

take care of you  for of course you know I'm
off in the morning ? ' said Jack, when they
were at dinner.

No, I shall go with you. I mean to see
this business right through. Perhaps my
cousin will want me to give her away, as next
of kin.'

They started for London in the morning,
and, arriving after office hours, called at Mr.
Dexter's house. But they could get no information
respecting the Squire, for Mr. Dexter
was away from home. Could the servant say
where ? She could : her master was in France.

He has gone with my father, depend on
it,' said Jack. ' They have got some clue, and
they are following it up. We won't waste
time on going to Lincoln's Inn tomorrow.
We'll cross in the morning.'

*****

The important interview had taken place.
The Squire's explanation, made with dignity
and simplicity all his own, had been received

with the very perfection of manner by Madame
de Eastacq, who found the amount of Sybil's
dot ' greatly beyond her expectations. Among
the talents of the ' very clever woman,' whom
Mr. Dexter studied with ever-growing admiration,
was a marked capacity for the management
of money. Madame Vivian was wealthier
than her astute neighbour had ever imagined
her to be.

Mavis's progress was so satisfactory that
Sybil had got the doctor's permission to tell her
just a little of her good news on the next day.
The betrothed-lovers had received the social
sanction that permitted them to meet, and to talk
of their future. Bene and the Squire were on
excellent, though not very conversational, terms ;
and Sybil found it a delightful task to interpret
between them, while she laughed at the English
of the one and the French of the other. Eene
had dined at the chateau, and the evening being
very fine, the whole party had adjourned to the
glass gallery. The moon had risen early, and

the sombre Pass was streaked with her silver
light. Madame Vivian sat a little apart, lost
in lier own thoughts. Mr. Dexter was undisguisedly
asleep. Eene, Sybil, and the Squire
had gone into the verandah.

It is a beautiful scene,' said the Squire.

I never thought it so beautiful before,'
whispered Eene.

I never was so happy in my life,' said Sybil,
addressing the assurance to her father and her
lover equally ; ' only one thing could make me
happier  if my brother were but here. There's
Gregoire. What does he wants Can it be
anything from the cottage ? '

She darted back into the gallery, just as
Gregoire's circumspect steps had brought him
to his mistress's side.

Two gentlemen from England desire to
know whether Madame can receive them. Their
business is urgent. M. le Capitaine Bassett and
Monsieur Jeffrey.'

It is once more ' glorious summer ' at Field-flower
Farm. Roses are clustering round the
long casements of the Dame's Parlour, the
turret-arbour is buried in greenery, the river
sparkles as it runs along through the rich fields
and under the old walls. On its shining bosom
a boat is afloat, with a pair of sculls in it, but
they are idle ; likewise a pair of lovers, but they
are silent. In the distance, near the arbour-boathouse,
Eeuben looks rather picturesque,
lying on the bank ; nearer the effect would be
injured, for he is eating bread and cheese in
larger lumps than ever. Trotty Veck, grown
too old for water-parties, keeps Eeuben drowsy
company.

Inside the house there is pleasant shade and
a delightful fragrance of simmering fruit. Miss
Nestle is in the miniature museum, surrounded
with jam-pots  Isaac sleeping among them 
and perfectly happy. If certain rumours that
have reached her are true. Miss Nestle may
presently resume her sway at Bassett. Pretty

topsy-tardiness she expects to find in the
museum there ! What else indeed is to be expected,
when ladies play at being housekeepers
even when they are very nice ladies with no
fallalishness about them, and have put themselves
out of their place with the best motives ?
But one thing she is determined upon; it is
that Mr. Jack shall not come short of jam. No
one in the world but herself can know how
much Mr. Jack depends on jam. Moreover she
will teach Mrs. Jack how jam should be made.

A sound of exceeding sweet singing comes
into the old rooms with the perfumed air. Miss
Nestle looks out, sees the boat motionless upon
the water, and listens to the solemn music.

'It's the psalm they're so fond of. How
clear her voice comes ! '

Before the hills in order stood,

Or Earth received its frame ;
From Everlasting, Thou art God,

To endless years the same !

Jack has taken up the sculls, and the boat
moves on.

Presently the boat nears the swans' nest, and
Mavis scatters bread upon the water for Jack
and Jill, and their thriving cygnets.

Let us get out and walk back ! ' says Jack.
He pulls the boat up ; they leave it for Eeuben,
and walk along the bank towards the old walls,
hand in hand. Mavis is still delicate-looking,
and there is too little colour in her cheeks ; but
she is much handsomer than she was when Jack
saw her first, and the gravity of her face is full
of peace. Presently Jack detains her, and,
looking up at the old walls, says :

It was here, Mavis, just here, that you
made me the promise to say, every day, that
you were mine so long as the river should run
and the wind blow.'

And I said it, every day  even when,
when '

I know, I know. But it is a better promise
we have made each other now '  he drew
her close to him  ' for you shall be mine, and I
shall be yours, when there are no more rivers

to run, and no more winds to blow, " in secular
speculum. Amen ! " '

Jack will have to join his regiment very
soon,' said the Squire to his wife, ' and I should
like to see him and Mavis in the old place
first; so I think of going back to England
next week.'

'Do you?'

She said this with a very nervous smile.

Will that hurry you too much, my dear ? '

She breathed freely.

'Not in the least. I could be ready tomorrow.
Gregoire will take charge here.'

Do you know where I propose to go ?
Our young people being in possession at Field-flower
Farm, I think of making a long visit to
my tenant at Bassett.'

Oh, Eandolph, you are too good to me ! '
The Squire's wife burst into tears, just as if
she had been a young woman, and not a
remarkably clever one.

This little dialogue took place in Madame
Vivian's library, and, as the Squire's eyes
gravitated towards books as naturally as some
women's  and men's  eyes gravitate to a ,
lie turned to an inspection of her
book-shelves, when she began to write the letters
rendered necessary by his welcome decision.

Slowly, and with the peculiar greediness of
aspect and steal thinness of touch of a genuine
lover of books, the Squire travelled along the
shelves, absorbed in his examination, and uttering
occasional little grunts of approbation.
Now and then, the forefinger passing along the
lines would pause, and he would slip a volume
off the shelf, dip into it, replace it, and go on.
His wife watched his proceedings with delight ;
he had entirely forgotten her presence ; she
might lay down her pen and be happy in the
mere unrestrained sight of him. He had inspected
a full third of her collection when he
turned round with a volume in his hand, and
surprise in his face.

How did this come here ? '

What is it ? '

She rose and went to him.

It is a book that belongs to me. It is a
marked copy, with my book plate in it too, of
a remarkable novel, by a writer whom I admire
very much. How comes it here ? Jack did
not bring it with him, I'm sure ; for this book
Alas not at the Farm. It was among some
books I left at Bassett to be sent to the binder.
How comes it here ? '

Did you say it was a favourite with you ? '

There was a tinge of pink in Madame
Vivian's cheeks that might have been the soft
blush of a young woman.

Yes, a great favourite. I have all the
writer's works. She calls herself 'signora."
But don't you know how the book came
here ? '

I do, Eandolph, I do. I took it away
Tvith me from Bassett.'

You  took  it  away  from -basset ? '

VOL. III. X

Yes. I have never ventured to tell you
until now. I went down to Bassett with Mary
Metge. I wanted to see your home, that was
to have been mine ; I wanted to have a picture
of it in my mind. I was there only a few
hours, and I saw this book  you had marked
some passages in it ; I could not resist the
temptation of taking it  it was like talking to
you once more.'

Why ?  what was there in it, particularly
? '

The Squire stood with his back to the
bookcase, the accusing volume in his hand.
His wife took it, and turned to the title-page :

Look,' she said, ' " Ignota  the Unknown.
Not to be known, not to be before the public for
praise, or censure, for any kind of discussion."
I could not help it, Eandolph. I had to put
something that would not let me think forever
of my wretched self between me and the
misery that was of my own making. Otherwise
I should have gone mad. And I took the book

because you had marked it, and written a word
here and there.'

Do you mean, can you mean, that you
are the writer of those novels, which I have
looked for year after year, and know almost
by heart ? '

I do mean that. I am Ignorant

magnified, my dear ! ' She was so
overpowered that he added, with the whimsical
expression she remembered so well :

Can you stand criticism, madame my
wife . Yes ! Then let me say that there's
a charming variety about your writing in all
respects but one. Your hero is a fixed type.
You call him by a variety of names, but there's
only one man. How do you account for this ? '

Easily. My unvarying hero is a portrait.
As you say : " There is only one man." I ama
true believer, Eandolph, and

One, and one only, is the Lover's Creed'' *
