CHAPTER I.

HORNDJKAN OF HORNDEAN.

"Nothing could be more creditable to a
- man than to have made himself on
the pattern and to the extent of which
the late Mr. Horndean had offered a distinguished
example. The pattern was that
of an estimable member of society, who discharged
all his obligations with exactness,
gave no offence, and had no history, save
in the self-making particular ; the extent
was that of a small landed proprietor,

VOL. II. B

but with a considerable fortune invested
in safe and remunerative securities. He
had been a lucky man in almost everything
he undertook : he had had his waving
all but a solitary instance  the one
woman whom he had loved was not for
him. Whether that contrariety of fate had
lastingly embittered the other favours of
fortune, no human being, save Mr. Horn-dean
himself, could have told. He was a
reserved man, whose quiet manners were
a preservative against the prejudice with
which success that does not demonstrate
itself in folly and extravagance is sometimes
regarded. Those forms his success had
never taken, partly because he really was
a sensible man, and partly because it had
not completed itself until he was sufficiently
advanced in life to be aware of the emptiness
of folly, and the unsatisfying nature
of extravagance. The most entirely appropriate
and timely piece of good fortune
that had ever befallen him, according to

his own estimate, was his getting possession
of the old house and small park on which
he had conferred the name of Horndean.
The place had been known by another
name for more than two centuries, and had
many recollections and traditions connected
with it, some of them worthy and lofty,
others evil and mean, but there had come
an end to the old line and the old history.
The last of the historic family to which the
place had belonged had revived its evil and
mean traditions in his own person during a
long and worthless life that came to its
fitting close in exile and contempt. No
son of his succeeding to an inheritance
which was simply one of debt and dishonour,
the place was sold. Mr. Horndean
bought it, and all who knew him at the
time, and the neighbourhood who did not
know him, supposed that now another of
the fine old English country places would
be turned into building-ground, and a vulgar
speculator would avail himself of the

b2

contiguity of the all-invading railway to
plant a vulgar townlet in its stead. Everybody
was mistaken ; Mr. Horndean settled
down to live in the old house, after it had
been substantially repaired, but not in the-least
injured in an ideal sense, in the process,
and the only Philistine act of which
he was guilty was the change of name.

I mean those who come after me to be
Horndeans of Horndean," Miss Lorton's
guardian had said, in explaining to her his
reasons for turning Charlecote Chase into
Horndean. "I am proud of the name I
have made respectable and kept clean, and
I hope no one will ever sully my name, as
the last Charlecote of Charlecote stained
and degraded his."

The lady to whom he spoke concluded
very reasonably from this explanation that
Mr. Horndean meant to marry ; indeed,
without it, she would have thought such an
intention likely, after the acquisition of a
fine place like that. Whether Mr. Horn-clean

did or did not marry, was not then a
material concern of Miss Lorton's, for she
was herself engaged to marry Mr. Townley
Gore. Of course, the new place would not
be so pleasant a resource for her with, as
without, a Mrs. Horndean, but beyond that
consideration she did not care. Her brother's
interest in the matter was a closer
one, for Mr. Horndean had no relatives in
anything like an obligatory degree of kinship
to Him, and he had always taken his
honorary relation to the Portions very seriously.
Her brother's interest must, however,
take care of itself. Miss Lorton was a
reasonable person at every period of her
life, and she was aware that it would be
absurd and unbecoming for her to exhibit
either surprise or discontent that her
guardian, a well-preserved man, some years
short of sixty, should think of founding a
family after having secured so satisfactory a
stake in the country as Horndean. Her
guardian, however, did nothing of the sort.

He merely settled down at the " translated ir
Charlecote Chase, gave her a splendid
wedding in the grand old house, made her
and her friends welcome there each autumn
for a few weeks of well-ordered hospitality,
and took to collecting. He was not a
fanatical collector, and his former business
habits and ideas kept him from exceeding
his means ; but he certainly did expend a
good deal of money on the purchase of
miniatures, enamels, china, Lines, and
precious stones, for which both Mrs. Townley
Gore and her brother could have found
a more satisfactory use.

In the harmless pursuits of adding to his
little museum and admiring its contents, the
last fifteen years of Mr. Horndean's life y
which had been one of unremitting toil
until its middle period was reached, passed
peacefully enough away. Perhaps if he had
been called upon, at its close, to declare
what moment of it had been the most
completely filled with entire and unmixed

satisfaction, he would have named that in
which he saw his own collection of Hungarian
garnets described in a learned article
upon precious stones in one of the great quarterlies
as "unrivalled" among private collections.
That life, with its early and respectable
struggles, its creditable success, its
presumable but hidden grief, its real loneliness,
its harmless gratifications, its pride, not
to be condemned, although it might have
been manifested after a less Philistine
fashion, was over now, and the troublesome
ward, the only son of the woman Mr. Horn-dean
had loved, but who was not for him,
was to succeed him at Horndean.

Frederick Lorton, who had never in his
life worked with steady, self-denying, self-restraining
purpose for any object, was to
have the enjoyment of all that Mr. Horn-dean
had acquired by long years of steady
and purposeful endeavour. The heir had
not even seen his benefactor on his deathbed,
or afforded him the satisfaction of believing

that his counsels had made any
impression.

Mr. Horndean and Frederick Lorton had
never been very good friends since the boy
had become a man. The two were as antagonistic
in temperament as they were
unlike in tastes. Of his two wards, the
joint legacy of his dead love and his dead
friend, the girl had of late been preferred,
and if he could by a stroke of his pen have
made a Horndean of Horndean of her, it is
probable Mrs. Townley Gore would have
been his heiress. This, however, could not
be done, and the old man's pride found a
dreary gratification in a disposition of his
property in which his feelings had hardly
any share. He had had his good things in
his time, and he had not merited them ill,
as merely human merit goes. He had
been a just man ; but among those good
things, the best, which is love, was not
included : love he had neither gained nor
given.

The spring was in its utmost beauty of
the tender green period, when the master of
Horndean lay yet unburied within the walls
of the old house that had opened its doors
to so many brides and bridegrooms, and
closed them behind so many dead men and
women of a race whose place was to know
it no more for ever. That beauty was
exceptionally exquisite at Horndean, for the
park was famous for its trees, oak and elm,
beech and ash, in all their varieties, and
great cedars and copper beeches stood
stately in the vicinity of the house, which
was approached on one side by a noble
double avenue of chestnuts and thorns,
white and red. Later in the spring, when
the lilacs, laburnums, and hawthorns should
have fully flowered, and the great banks of
rhododendrons should be in their first
bloom, the place would be a paradise of
colour. The formal gardens, with their
laurel and yew hedges, enclosed within
serried ranks of magnificent trees a vast

parterre where roses of every hue shed
their perfume on the soft air.

The house, a spacious building of redbrick
 toned by time and its growths into a
most harmonious colour  with white stone
facings, was almost square, with two grand
entrances, and a superb marble central hall
or saloon, with a cupola roof. The garden
front consisted of two lines of large and
lofty windows, with a wide balcony in
the centre of the upper line. Those upper
windows belonged to a vast drawing-room
or gallery, which extended along the entire
front, and was a beautiful and elegantly-proportioned
apartment, panelled in oak,
with a richly-painted ceiling, and an open
fireplace with a carved oak chimney-piece
of great value. In the recesses between the
windows, which reached from the floor to
the ceiling, were placed the cases that contained
Mr. Horndean's collections, occupying
about half the space in each recess ; the
upper half being filled by bookcases.

The books were rare and valuable, but
they did not form a " collection " in the
same sense as the other objects, for Mr.
Horndean had, so to speak, bought Charlotte
Chase " all standing," and the coat-of-arms
of the extinct family was stamped on
the buif-and-gold covers of the folios, octavos,
and quartos, and on the portfolios of
engravings that had rested undisturbed since
its flourishing days. Rich furniture in faded
crimson damask and gold ; heavy damask
hangings ; a number of fine cabinets, some
of them curiosities of old Chinese fabric ; a
few marble busts and small groups, and an
ancient harpsichord, daintily painted in the
sentimental and pastoral style of the period
when Stephen and Chloe were the exponents
of the eternal legend of love and youth,
combined to lend to the " long gallery " an
aspect entirely unlike that of a modern
drawing-room. Some fine portraits, for
which those of Charles Surface's ancestors
might be supposed to entertain a fellow-feeling

 for they too had been knocked
down in the lump, without ever a protest
on behalf of a Sir Oliver among them 
were fitted into the panels opposite the
long windows, and beneath each stood a
coffer or a chest, some velvet covered and
ornamented with the fleur-de-lys in wrought
brass, others in Florentine or Venetian
workmanship.

All day the light poured into this beautiful
room, silent and yet eloquent, lonely
and yet full of many memories from many
lands ; in the morning through the eastern,
in the evening through the western windows,
and between those hours through the long
line of the front that faced the grand old
garden, with the stately trees and the
solemnly noisy rookery beyond. There
were smaller but still spacious drawing-rooms,
a fine library, a great dining-hall,
and the vast marble saloon already mentioned,
but the gallery was the pride of the
house in modern as it had been in ancient

days, and in that room the late owner had
found all the pleasure of his later years.
To add a choice gem or jewel, a rare bit of
china, to his collection ; to inscribe in his
perfectly-arranged and scrupulously-kept
catalogue the history of a snuff-box or a
bonbonniere, on whose lid some languishing
beauty simpered  preparatory, in many
cases, to " looking out of the little window,"
for the beauties were chiefly of the period
of la sainte guillotine  to set down the date
and condition of an Aldine, which probably
nobody had ever read, and which he
most assuredly never would read : or the
subject of an enamel, with the name of the
atelier which produced it  were the harmless
delights of the old mans life.

They were mostly unshared, but he did
not care about that. The only reflection
that spoiled or damped his pleasure was
one which he could not keep away. Who
would care for his collections when he was
gone ? He would sally answer to this

question of his own, " No one," and then he
would look around at the rich and beautiful
objects that he, an utter stranger, had
bought " in the lump," and which, though
now dumb for ever, had once been eloquent
to men and women whose life-histories
were all closed, and would feel with
strange bitterness that the things he loved
would soon be as dumb and meaningless.
They should not be sold " in the lump " to
a stranger, however; he" would take order
against that. The Horndean collection
should be an heirloom, and descend with
the place, never to be diverted from the
possession of Horndeans of Horndean.

And now the time had come when this
provision against the inevitable change and
oblivion was to be carried into effect. The
great doors of Horndean House were about
to close behind the mortal remains of its
new owner, and Mr. Lorton was to reign in
his stead. The ceremonial that succeeds

death in rich men's houses was observed on
this occasion with the strictest propriety,
and nothing was wanting to the funeral rites
except mourning for the dead man. There
was none of that, but a decent gravity pervaded
the household. Mrs. Grimshaw,
the housekeeper, felt some real regret for
him, and Mrs. Townley Gore's manners were
good under all circumstances, so that there
was no levity or unbecoming behaviour during
the week of silence and downdrawn
blinds, for Mrs. Grimshaw was as absolute
in one sphere as Mrs. Townley Gore in
another. There was a great deal of curiosity
concerning the will among the household
and in the neighbourhood ; this was not
shared by Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore ;
they knew that Frederick Lor ton was to
have Horndean, and that his sister was to
receive a handsome legacy. Poor Mr.
Townley Gore had had his gout to think of
more continually since he had been at Horn-dean.

A luxurious country house, nothing
to do, and a state of things which prescribes
almost unrelieved solitude, are bad for persons
of Mr. Townley Gore's sort ; and they
proved bad for him : he was thrown too
much upon the risky resources of eating and
drinking, and the enemy made advances
upon him. Of course he was terribly cut
up by Mr. Horndean's death, as he told
his doctor in entire good faith, but he was
in reality " cut up " only about himself.
His wife behaved admirably ; she was anxious
about her brother, and there was a
great deal to be done ; but she never worried
him, she seemed perfectly equal to it
all. Mr. Townley Gore disliked, with all
the force of his selfish and ease-loving nature,
the proximity of death ; the pressure
upon his attention of that supreme and inevitable
fact was extremely irksome to him,
and there was no escaping from it. He
secluded himself strictly in the handsome

suite of rooms which he always occupied in
Mr. Horndean's house, but there was no
getting away from the consciousness that the
end of all the pleasantness, which, albeit of
late somewhat disproportionately tempered
with gout, his soul still loved, must come
with the even-footed hours. " One can't forget
it in a house whose master is lying
dead," Mr. Townley Gore would say to himself,
peevishly, quite convinced that peace
and wisdom are in the forgetting, and not
in the constant remembering. Thus time
dragged heavily within the fine old mansion
where so many masters had lain dead, and
the arrival of the day fixed for the funeral
was looked for as a relief by all.

Early on the morning of the appointed
day, a telegram from her brother was handed
to Mrs. Townley Gore. It had been despatched
from Charing Cross, and it contained
these words :

I have been dangerously ill. Learned

VOL. II. C

the news only yesterday. I am coming
down by first train. A friend comes with
me."

CHAPTER II.

MR. Portions FRIEND.

fTIHE grave of the late owner of Horndean
-*- had been made alongside the roomy
vault  well filled, however, and with not a
place to spare  of the Charlecotes. The
entrance to the vault was bricked up now,
and the key was put away with the family
papers in the strong-room of an eminent
solicitor in London, who had superintended
the very last of the family affairs. There
was no earthly reason why that key should
not have been sold for old iron, and those
family papers for remaking into fair white
and blue stationery, for there was no longer

a family to be " wanted " by death, or to
have its business done by lawyers. The
new grave now hid the successor to the
Charlecotes from the sight of men, and for
the second time a stranger had come to the
place, whence their very name had vanished.
So small a group of mourners had
rarely been seen at the funeral of a man of
local station and importance. It was composed
of the clergyman, the doctor, Mr.
Townley Gore, Mr. Lorton, and a fifth individual,
whom nobody among the little
crowd assembled to witness the interment
could identify.

The people about Horndean were mostly
well-to-do, comfortable farmers ; the working
classes were well off, employment was
plenty, there was a sturdy, not to say rude
spirit of independence among them, and it
mattered very little to them what sort of
person the new-comer at the old place might
be.

Still there was some curiosity on the point,

for it had got out before the funeral that the
place was left to one not of kin to the last
owner ; so that the bystanders looked with
interest for the appearance of the lucky man.

Everything was quite as it should be 
very handsome and very orderly ; and, if
looking ill was to be regarded as an indication
of grief, the late Mr. Horndean had at
least one sincere mourner.

Mr. Lorton looks as if he might soon
be going to his own funeral," said an Irish
nursemaid who was indulging her young
charges with the spectacle which, in the
country she came from, is regarded as a
treat, apart from associations.

He do look bad, to be sure," assented
her companion ; " but who's that, I wonder,
with the black moustaches ; him as ain't
a-mindin' of the parson, and keeps a-lookin'
up at the tower so ? Perhaps he's a wales."

No, no, if he was, he'd be with the servants,
and have a hat-band and a scarf.
He's a friend."

11 He ain't a friend of the corpse, then -
for he's a-fidgetin' and a-yawnin'. There I
it's over, and he's a-going' to 'ave a good
look at the tower. He's a-handlin' of the
livy now. I say, he's a good-lookin' fellow,
ain't he, and walks about as easy as if he
was a lord."

May be he is a lord."

"No, he ain't. Bless you! there don't
never no lords come about 'Ornden. There
was a mort on 'em when it was the Chace,
mother says. See ! they're going."

The little party was indeed leaving the
churchyard, and the straggler, whose proceedings
had been observed by the two girls,
joined his friends at the loch-gate.

In the road below, under the trees, now
clothed with their beautiful tender green,
were two carriages. Into the first Mr.
Townley Gore hoisted himself with some
difficulty and a stifled groan, the doctor followed
him ; the second conveyed Mr. Lorton
and the stranger.

v

"Now then, Fred, for the will," said the
latter, so soon as they had lost sight of the
churchyard-gate.

Fred " did not make any reply to this
cheery and doubtless well-meant remark.
He looked out of the carriage-window on his
side in an absent sort of way, and his companion,
after glancing at him sharply, and
muttering that he supposed it would not bethe
proper thing to light a cigar, but wished
it were, held his peace.

The road wound through a peaceful, sylvan
country, and was shaded almost the
whole way by fine trees, the scene was
grateful to the mind and the eyes of the
stranger ; he had sufficient occupation in
watching the play of light and shade, and
enjoying the effects of colour.

He did not feel snubbed in the least ;
he might perhaps have whistled, if he had
not been returning from a funeral ; as it was,
he only said to himself:

"Poor old Fred ! He has been terribly

hard hit, and hasn't pulled himself together
yet. He will be all right by-and-by."

The stranger looked like a man of light
and cheerful temperament ; a man who
could take the world, in which he had
lived for five-and-twenty years or so, easily
enough. He was good-looking, with bright,
dark eyes and dark hair, and something in
his appearance and manners, if not foreign,
suggestive of his having lived a good deal
abroad.

Mr. Lorton had reached Horndean so
short a time before the hour appointed for
the funeral, that he had only seen his sister
in her own room for a few minutes. They
had not exchanged a dozen sentences, but
Mrs. Townley Gore had been able to convince
herself that the explanation of her
brother's absence given in his telegram was
a true one. His pale face bore traces of
severe illness, his eyes were dim and hollow,
his features were drawn, his movements
were feeble and weary, and his limbs

were wasted. His sister could not repress a
start on seeing him, nor could she keep a tone
of alarm out of her voice.

I have been very ill  down with a
bad fever at Amiens' he said ; " quite off
my head ; did not know anybody ; should
not have been here now if it hadn't been
for the good fellow who has come with
me. I will tell you all about it by-and-by."

Then he left her, and while the funeral
was going on Mrs. Townley Gore devoted
more thought than she was in the habit of
giving to any matter which was not in the
narrowest sense of the term her own business,
to her brother and his affairs.

After luncheon, at which meal Mrs. Townley
Gore did not appear, but the gentlemen
were joined by the lawyer who had comedown
from London, the second part of the
day's programme was entered upon. The
will was read in the library in the presence
of Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore, Dr. Scott,
Mr. Osborne, the rector of the parish,

and Mr. Simpson, of the firm of Simpson
and Rees, Solicitors, Lincoln's Inn Fields,
the legal adviser charged with the Horn-dean
business. When, on one occasion,
during the present sojourn of Mr. and
Mrs. Townley Gore at Horndean, the former
recognised in Mr. Simpson, who had
come to visit his invalid client, the person
who had been entrusted with the posthumous
commission of Herbert Rhodes, he had
felt a transient sense of awkwardness and
discomfort ; but it vanished before what was
either genuine oblivion, or tact, on the part
of Mr. Simpson. That gentleman did not
make any reference to the matter of their
former interview. The business that brought
him to Horndean this time would not detain
him long, and was one that could be made
pleasant all around.

Frederick Lorton entered the library the
last of the party to be present at the reading
of the will. The others were already
seated, and Mrs. Townley Gore silently

pointed to a chair by the side of her own.
Mr. Lorton took it, drew it close to the
large leather-covered table, on which Mr.
Simpson was in the act of spreading out the
imposing-looking document, and, resting his
arm on the table, supported his head on his
hand, in an attitude that removed him
from the direct line of observation by his
sister.

The will, which was dated as far back as
the year of Mrs. Townley Gore's marriage,
was set forth with the customary costly and
preposterous verbiage. To his " ward,"
Frederick Lorton, the testator bequeathed
all his landed property, on the condition
that he should assume the name of Horn-dean
; the estate to descend to his heirs
general with the same condition. In the
event of Frederick Lorton's death without
issue, the estate was to pass to the eldest
male representative of Mr. Harden's nearest
of kin (named), to descend in the same
way and on the same condition. " I make

this disposition," so ran the will, " because
it is my desire and intention that the estate
of Horndean shall be held in the name of
Horndean, henceforth and in perpetuity,
whether its holder be male or female." To
Mrs. Townley Gore he bequeathed five
thousand pounds. After these, the most important
provisions, the testator proceeded
to deal with his cherished possessions, the
collection, and on this point his instructions
were minute. The gems and precious stones,
the china, enamels, and other articles of
virtu, were to be heirlooms, and to be kept
at Horndean, in their present order, in the
long drawing-room. This, in case that
Frederick Lorton should have children, and
that the property should therefore be inherited,
as he hoped it might be, by persons
who would have a traditional knowledge of
himself, his tastes, and the value he set on
these things. But in the contrary event,
and in case of the property passing to the
representative of his (the testator's) next of

kin, as he could not be assured that such
person would be one possessing any knowledge
of the value of his collection, he directed
that on Frederick Lorton's death,
without issue, the whole should be presented

to the Art Museum at M , the town in

which he was born. Some liberal bequests
to his servants, and a request that Frederick
Lorton should continue to entrust the management
of the Horndean estates to Messrs.
Simpson and Rees, were included in the
provisions of the will. With these the document
concluded, and Mr, and Mrs. Townley
Gore had heard it read with entire
equanimity. They had both been long
aware of the general nature of its provisions,
its noble endowment of Frederick Lorton,
and the handsome bequest to themselves.
The minor matters did not concern them.
But when Mr. Simpson had finished reading
the will, and just as his hearers were
about to speak, instead of turning to the
heir with the customary congratulations, he

kept his eyes on the sheets of parchment before
him, and said :

"There is a]codicil,made three years ago,
which I shall now read."

Mrs. Townley Gore glanced at her husband
in some alarm, and Mr. Lorton slightly
changed his attitude. Three years ago !
That was the time at which he and his former
guardian had fallen out more seriously than
in their long course of quarrels they had
ever done before ; that was the time from
which Mrs. Townley Gore had begun to
despair of her brother's ever coming to
much good  and especially to that supreme
good, the inheritance of Horndean  and to
be beset by the fear that her old friend's
own words had only recently dispelled.
The codicil was brief, emphatically worded,
and to the effect that if, at the period of the
testator's death, it should be found that
Frederick Lorton had contracted marriage
without the knowledge of the testator, the
previous bequests to him should become

null and void, and the whole of the property
named and described in the will,
should pass to the representative of the
testator's nearest of kin (named) on the
before-mentioned conditions.

Persons w T ho have observed the demeanour
of prisoners on trial on a capital
charge have remarked that there is one respect
in which they are all alike : it is the
physical manifestation of the effect produced
upon them by the delivery of the verdict.
When that fateful utterance is " Not
guilty !" the prisoner at the bar draws a
long, deep breath ; when it is " Guilty,"
the doomed wretch opens his dry mouth
like a fish, and the tongue clicks against
the palate. Perhaps, if one had opportunities
of observation, it would be found
that the termination of any kind of serious
suspense, for good or ill, manifests itself in
one of these two ways.

When Mr. Simpson, having read the
codicil through, laid his hand flat upon

the document, and said, "That is all,"
Frederick Lorton drew a long, deep
breath.

All who were present rose, and a few
words were spoken ; those of Mr. Simpson
were most to the purpose :

I presume I may congratulate you
freely and without reserve, Mr. Lorton ?"

"Thank you, Mr. Simpson, you may. I
am not a married man."

I shall leave you all to talk over things
for a while' said Mrs. Townley Gore.
"And perhaps you, Frederick, will join me
presently in the rose-walk. Mr. ;Simpson r
1 know, must catch the train."

She took a gracious leave of the lawyer
and left the room.

The men resumed their seats, and, with
the exception of Mr. Lorton, began to
talk.

"About this nearest of kin, this Richard
Smith, formerly of Nottingham," said Mr.
Townley Gore ; " where and what is he? I

never heard Mr. Horndean mention his
name."

"Nor did I," said Mr. Simpson, " except
when I took his instructions for that will
ten years ago. I know nothing about
him."

"Seems rather vague, does it not? A
Richard Smith, formerly of Nottingham."

Well, perhaps it does ; but, in the highly
improbable event " (with a slight bow to
the heir) " provided for by this," he was folding
up the crackly parchment as he spoke,
I think we should not have much difficulty
in tracing the nearest of kin."

Mrs. Town ley Gore rarely found herself
in any situation of which she was not
mistress ; in the present instance, however,
she was not so entirely composed and
comfortable as she could have wished to be,
and her pre-occupation gave to her aspect
a subdued gravity that was really becoming,
under the circumstances. Her manner was

vol. n. d

almost always correct, but absolute perfection
of demeanour cannot, after all, invariably
subsist with entire heartlessness ; that fatal
flaw will sometimes make itself evident,
and, had she not had a secret cause of disturbance
which troubled her serenity, it
would have manifested itself now in the
callousness with which she would have
treated the solemnities of a death and a
burial.

Her brother Frederick was now in sober
earnest the important personage she had
long hoped he might some day become ;
and she was not at all sure how she stood
with him. His illness accounted for a good
deal of his conduct with regard to herself,
but it did not account for it all. What if
she should find that he still resented her
method of meeting him, when last he had
applied to her in one of those frequent
scrapes of which she had at length wearied
to the imprudent point of bullying him?
Mrs. Townley Gore, whose faith in her own

infallibility was almost the only faith of
which she was capable, actually found herself
in the condition in which, when it
happened to suit her convenience to go to
church, she declared herself to be  that of
wishing that she had left undone something
which she had done, and done something
which she had left undone. She wished
she had not written that very sharp letter
to Frederick last summer; all she had said
was quite true, and more than deserved,
still she wished she had not allowed herself
to prove to him with irresistible force how
much wiser, cleverer, and stronger she was
than he. The demonstration had wounded
his vanity. Men were so horribly vain !
Then she wished she had kept Frederick
with her, or near her, instead of losing
sight of him for so long an interval. Who
could tell what influence he had now come
under? It was easy to be wise after the
fact, and to think it would have been worth
while to put up with some inconvenience

d2

for the few months during which Mr. Horn-dean's
life had been destined to last, but,
even without that display of posthumous wisdom,
she might have adopted a better policy
with Frederick. Who had he been with ? In
bad company of course ; he always was in
bad company when free to choose his own ;
and though there was nothing to fear on
the old score  that miserable girl, the paltry,
painted actress, about whom Mr. Horn-dean
had quarrelled with him, and against
whom the will was intended as a defence ;
had been burnt to death, poor wretch, and
was out of the way  who could say that
Frederick had not opened a new score ?
This very first day would decide the question
of her own position with him ; if he
meant fight, he would show fight when the
hour of explanation came. As Mrs. Townley
Gore paced slowly up and down the
velvet-like greensward, dotted all over with
rose-trees, absorbed in thought, she might
have been supposed to be thinking of the

tenant of the new-made grave that was so
near ; but she hardly even glanced at that
in her meditations. She was of the number
of those who bury their dead out of their
sight, and with whom they are " out of
mind."

She had been out for a full hour, now
walking, now resting on a garden-seat ;
when, looking towards the arched opening
in a thick, beautifully-kept privet hedge
which fenced off the rose kingdom from
its meaner neighbours, she saw her brother
coming through the arch, but he was not
alone.

How provoking of him," muttered Mrs.
Townley Gore, with a dark frown. But she
had cleared the frown away before her
brother came up to the place where she
stood, and said :

Caroline, this is my good friend, Frank
Lisle."

CHAPTER III.

IN MAYFAIR.

rFIHINGS settled down at Horndean with
-*- the facility that attends changes, when
there are no difficulties about money in the
way. The old master was gone, the young
master filled his place, that was all. The
transfer was effected with perfect ease ; the
neighbourhood paid its visits of condolence
by leaving its cards, and made its visits of
congratulation in person ; and was of opinion
that the present Mr. Horndean was a decided
improvement on the former.

The neighbourhood had not seen anything
of Frederick Lorton for three or four

years, and had seen but little of him at anytime
; if it had heard rumours to his disadvantage,
it was not disposed to remember
them now. The popularity of Mrs. Townley
Gore contributed not a little to this
pleasant state of things. It had amused her,
and cost her nothing, to make herself popular
during her annual visits to Horndean.
Her brother had earnestly begged of her to
remain with him and see him through the
taking possession business, as he called it,
protesting that he was not well enough,
that he could not be bothered, that he supposed
he was bound to stay at Horndean
for the present, but that it was an awful
bore ; and altogether demeaning himself as
though he were rather injured and aggrieved
by being converted into a landed
proprietor.

With this Mrs. Townley Gore patiently
put up. She had been speedily relieved
from her apprehension as to how her
brother might mean to behave to her, by

perceiving that, although he did not intend
to be communicative with respect to the
interval during which she had known nothing
about him, neither did he intend to
rake up past grievances, or maintain a feud
with her. This might be the result of
magnanimity, or it might merely proceed
from Frederick's inclination to make things
pleasant for himself. The motive concerned
her not. She accepted the fact that the
hatchet was buried, and freely acknowledged
to herself that smoking the pipe of peace
under such prosperous circumstances was
pleasant.

Of one thing she felt quite certain :
whatever Frederick's mode of life had been
during that interval which he clearly did
not mean to discuss, it had not agreed with
him. She was inclined to think the old
man had died only just in time; a little
more " knocking about," as people airily
describe sinful and worthless living, would
probably have finished Frederick. It was

quite true that he was very like their
mother, who had died young. He was
rather provoking in his ways just now, but
that would come to an end. The serious
advantages of so enviable and safe a position
as that into which he had stepped, must
overcome his undisciplined fancies and reckless
habits. The mere possession of plenty
of money might prove an effectual cure fora
propensity to spend too much, and to spend
it ill.

Mrs. Townley Gore was, in short, in high
good humour, and made the house very
agreeable for everyone, including her husband,
who was over his attack of gout, and
able to take an active interest in the stables.
The late Mr. Horndean knew nothing, and
cared as little, about horses ; so that he had
a carriage to use when he wanted to go out,
it was a matter of total indifference to him
what the horses were like. There were
four equine quadrupeds in his stables, but
he would not have known any of them had

he met them on the road, detached from the
carriage. The present Mr. Horndean was
not a horsey man, though, as his sister was
well aware, he had " dropped " a good deal
of money at the racecourses of more than
one country ; but he was alive to the propriety
of having good horses at Horndean.
So was Mr. Frank Lisle, but chiefly because
he wanted to paint them, as he wanted to
paint the cows and the dairymaid, the
dogs, Mrs. Grimshaw the housekeeper,
the cat, the pigeons, the terrace and the
flower-vases, the lake and the ducks, the
boathouse, and the post-pony. He was
always getting a "sitting" from somebody
or something, and his friend's very first
exercise of authority of the proprietors
kind was to have a big room with a north
light "turned out," as Mrs. Grimshaw described
the proceeding, and given up to
Mr. Lisle and the " painter's rubbish" that
he accumulated about him. It was understood
that Mr. Lisle was to stay at Horn-dean

until the humour seized him to go
elsewhere, and to do exactly what he liked
while he stayed there. Mrs. Townley Gore
made no objection to this unconventional
arrangement, although it was not one that
would seem at all likely to commend itself
to her ; and her acquiescence was only one
of many testimonies to Mr. Frank Lisle's
power of pleasing.

He was aware that Mrs. Townley Gore
was pleased with him, and he was glad of
it, although he was very far from appreciating
all the importance of the fact, or suspecting
how untenable he would have found his
position had it not received her sanction.
He was agreeably surprised to find Mrs.
Townley Gore so urbane and charming a
person, for he had been predisposed, by
information that he had received, to dislike
her.

If anyone had described Mr. Frank Lisle
to her, and she had not seen him, Mrs.
Townley Gore would have pronounced him

off-hand to be an objectionable person, one
of those individuals, superfluous and annoying
in a well-ordered world, who allow a
taste to assume the proportions of a mania.
To be an artist was not by any means a
passport to her favour ; she disliked artists
as a class, and had been annoyed, not without
reason, by her brother's predilection for
their society. Successful artists, of course,
were quite another thing ; one met them
every where, and they were eminently respectable,
though perhaps a little pronounces ; but
Frederick's artist friends were not in the
first nor even the second line, and they had
certainly done him no good.

Mr. Frank Lisle had, however, established
himself in the good graces of Mrs. Townley
Gore by his pleasant manners, disfigured
by any of the carelessness which she disliked
; his happy temper ; his good looks ;
and his evidently wholesome influence over
Frederick. It was from Frank Lisle that
she learned the particulars of her brother's

illness, for, as she told Miss Chevenix in a
letter written in fulfilment of the promise
she had made on leaving her, Frederick
was really not yet well enough to like talking
about the narrow escape from death he
had had.

It seems," wrote Mrs. Townley Gore,
that he had been staying with Mr. Lisle
in Paris  was actually there while we were.
I told you, you may remember, that someone
called to ask about me the very day
I left Paris. No doubt it was Mr. Lisle
himself; and they were to have come on to
London together. But Mr. Lisle took one
of his crazes for painting somebody or
something, and went off to some place near
Paris, merely leaving word for Frederick
that he would follow him as soon as he
could.

"Frederick had been feeling rather ill,
and, as usual, taking no care of himself,
and, from what Mr. Lisle made out afterwards,
it seems Frederick sat up all nighty

playing, at a ' cercle ' in Paris, having to
start the next morning for England. He has
told me next to nothing himself; but he did
tell me that his object in coming to England
was to see Mr. Horndean ; he thought the
estrangement had lasted long enough, and
he meant to try to make it up. He started
feeling weak and giddy, as well he might,
and, when the train ran into the station at
Amiens, the railway people found him insensible
in the carriage.

As there was plenty of money in his
pocket they took him to a good hotel, sent
for a doctor and a nurse, and put him into
their hands. There he remained for a whole
month. His illness was brain fever, and
when it subsided, he was so weak and so
confused he could form no plans for himself,
and give no directions, and he just stayed
on, helpless, but saved.

Mr. Lisle had in the meantime been wandering
like a will-o'-the.wisp with brushes
for wings, and, after his pleasant fashion,

had been receiving and writing no letters.
He wanders back to Paris, and finds a
communication ' dated several weeks back,
from the doctor at Amiens, to the effect that
lie was in charge of a gentleman whose
initials were F. L., and in whose pocketbook
the address of the house in which Mr.
Lisle lived was written. This communication
was rather vaguely addressed to the
concierge, but all would have been right
had Mr. Lisle been in Paris.

He started for Amiens by that evening's
train, and found my brother in the state I
have described. I am sure that nothing
could be better than the care he took of
Frederick, but it was some time even yet
before he was fit for anything. I asked
Mr. Lisle why he did not write to me, and
he said it was because Frederick would not
let him write. He did not want a fuss
made, and he meant to go back to Paris. I
asked Mr. Lisle whether Frederick had forgotten
Mr. Horndean as well as everything

else ; but he said no ; he had only changed
his mind, and meant to come to England
later. They went back to Paris together,
and Frederick was there for two or three
days, after which they started for England 9
and would have come straight through, only
that Mr. Lisle wanted to paint something
at Calais. They put up at a queer little
inn, 'with associations as Mr. Lisle says,
with Hogarth, and Sterne, and people of
that kind ; at all events, there they stayed,
Mr. Lisle painting promiscuously (especially
vagrant dogs  you should see his sketchbook!)
and Frederick wandering about.
He picked up the Times at the railway-station,
and saw our, or I should say your,
advertisement, and he and Mr. Lisle came
on at once to Horndean.

"There, dear Beatrix, is my story, or
rather, Frederick's, for you, and you see
how successful your brilliant idea was. As
for my brother, I cannot tell you what I
think about him, because I have not yet

made up my mind. If he were not still far
from strong I should say lie was immensely
bored. I am not bored in the least, and
Mr. Townley Gore is wonderfully well.
We probably should not like more than a
few weeks of this sort of thing, but at the
end of them we shall have a few people
down ; no regular house-party, of course,
only friends. Don't you think you could
come? It would be nice; and if Mr. Lisle
has not flitted away somewhere, he would
paint you to perfection as the Fair One with
the Golden Locks. I see the Morning Post
announces the Darnell-Hylton affair as ' arranged.'
His mother has had her way, and
will no longer be amusing. How funny washer
dread of your fine eyes and your freethinking
! I shall ask you to call at "

Then followed a list of commissions.

It was a hot day in London, and Miss
Chevenix was ensconced in the shadiest corner
of her back drawing-room. The sunshine
was shut out by blinds, the air was

VOL. II. e

cooled by a jet from a pretty little fountain,
and scented with the breath of choice flowers.
The small but luxurious rooms were
models of good taste, and had an air of leisure
and repose especially charming, from
their contrast with the sullen roar and
rattle of the great chy outside. Miss Chevy
looked very handsome that day; her
magnificent hair was a glowing mass of
brightness in the shade ; there w T as a deeper
rose-tint than usual in her cheeks, and her
eyes made up in brilliance for what was
wanting to them in colour. It was anger
that shone in them ; but hers was a face to
which anger was not unbecoming, but also
not contradictory. She would have described
her dress as the simplest thing possible,
for it was merely an elegant combination of
soft, sheeny, white muslin and filmy lace, but
it represented an entry of twenty pounds in
her modiste's bill. The coolness that surrounded
her was only external ; there

was nothing answering to it in her heart and
brain. On a pretty gold-tasselled basket -
table beside her lay a number of cards and
letters; in her hand was an open paper, but
she was not reading its contents, she had
gathered them already, and her thoughts
were busy with their meaning.

But I must have some money," thus her
thoughts ran. "There is no use in papa's
writing such nonsense as this to me ; there
is no brood in his telling me I must c tide
over things for the present;' they cannot betided
over. It is cowardly of him to keep
away and leave me to bear it. Servants are
not insolent to him, tradespeople don't tell
him that customers of our sort don't suit
them, as that wretch from Morrison's told
me this morning. I cannot, I will not bear
what I have borne for the last week. It is
the Darnell-Hylton affair, as my tenderly
sympathetic friend calls it, that I may thank
for this sudden persecution in the middle of

e2

U6RARV

universe of nimfl

the season. They were all civil enough
while Sir Henry was seen about with me.
Yes, that is the explanation."

She suddenly and viciously tore the paper
.she held into strips, twisted them tightly
together, with a subtly-cruel suggestiveness
in the manner of the action ; as if those
strong white finders of hers could have wrung
a bird's neck, or a baby's.

It's horrible, it's sickening, it's maddening
to see the safety, the peace, the calmly
triumphant selfishness of securely rich people
; about whom nobody has any doubt,
and who have no doubt about themselves.
And how I do hate them ! I might not hate
them so much if I knew more about ourselves.
I suppose I could bear what people
call reverses as well as another ; and I am
sure I could play a bold game for a big
stake ; but there's no such thing : there's only
a dreary sham, and I don't even know how
much is sham."

She lav back in her chair, with her hands

behind her head, her face was bent forward,
her eyes were downcast, so that the
red-gold lashes hid them, and a strange
smile hovered about her full red lips. Her
thoughts had gown off at a tangent from
her father's letter, which was altogether displeasing,
to Mrs. Townley Gore's, which
was pleasing and irritating at the same
time.

My fine eyes and my free thinking !
How clever she fancies herself! What a
neatly-turned phrase she flatters herself that
is ! And yet, if there is any woman in the
world whom she likes, I am that woman !
To be sure I have red hair and eyes like
rain-drops, while she believes that

All that is best of dark and bright,
Meets in her aspect and her eyes.'

Xo doubt it did once. Thus, among a great
many other pleasures which she, lucky woman,
can afford, is the pleasure of patronising
me. But the pleasure of hitting me

hard is at least as great  will she find it as
cheap ?"

A cluster of yellow roses was pinned into
the front of her gown ; she crushed them
with her soft round chin as she inhaled their
perfume, and nibbled their delicate leaves
with her sharp small teeth. The action was
subtle, and like that of her hand.

She does not even know the ugly little
Puritan to speak to, and if I had been Lady
Darnell I might have been of use to her ;
and yet she cannot resist a thrust at me, so
strong in her nature is the instinct of spite.
How thoroughly she enjoys her queening at
Horndean ! It ought not to be difficult to
dethrone her. The brother seems to be an
effete person, not the sort of man I imagined
until now. Not one third so rich as Sir
Henry Darnell, and probably quite as stupid.
I will accept her invitation ; there will be no
duns in the hall at Horndean ; and Mr. Lisle,
who is apparently a much pleasant person

than Mrs. Townley Gore's brother, shall
paint niy picture."

She laughed suddenly aloud, and rose ;
she had seemingly recovered her good-humour.
She looked approvingly in the glass,
pulled out the plaits of her hair, Hung
the crumpled roses at her neck into the
basket under her writing-table, and prepared,
smiling as ale arranged her writing
materials, to reply to Mrs. Townley Gore's
letter.

A telegram, ma'am," said a correctly
impassive servant, tendering her the yellow
missive, which she carelessly opened.

The sender was a Colonel Wilton, at
whose house Mr. Chevenix was staying for
some famous mid-season races, and it contained
these words:

Your father has met with a serious accident.
I am coming to town to take you
to him. I shall be with you in an hour.
Be ready to start at once."

CHAPTER IV.

A BARGAIN.

M

Miss OHEVENIX arrived too late.
The accident to Mr. Ohevenix, which
was said by the newspapers to have cast a
gloom over the proceedings of the festive
week, but which in reality affected only
those individuals whose bets with him were
rendered void by his death, had produced
fatal results before Beatrix reached Colonel
Wilton's house. There was nothing for it
but to take her back again. Colonel Wilton,
an unmarried man, and who had hardly
known anything of Beatrix  his friendship
with her father was the association of clubs

and race-courses  behaved very well under
the circumstances. Beatrix had no male
relatives, and her friends were hardly such
as may be counted on in dark days. Nevertheless,
she was not unkindly treated ; all
that had to be done was done properly, but
the inevitable time came when the provisional
friends, produced b}' a crisis and a
catastrophe, retired, and she found herself
face to face with the facts of her position.

If the shock of her father's death had
been succeeded by the deepest grief that
ever filled a daughter's heart, Beatrix
Chevenix would have been forced to rouse
herself from its paralysing influence, for the
question that she had so often asked herself,
as to what their position realty was, had
found an unpleasant answer so soon as she
was free to investigate it by the aid of his
papers and the testimony of his creditors.
No such feeling had, however, ensued upon
the shock of the catastrophe. Her nerves
were tough, her sensibilities had the bluntness

that frequently accompanies strong passions.
She had learned by the precept and
example of her father to care supremely for
self alone, to hold that making the best of
a life which is to have no hereafter is the
sole practical distinction between wisdom
and folly ; and she had no keen instincts,
or unruly emotional tenderness, to tempt
her to an illogical departure from principles,
merely because her father was in question.

Mr. Chevenix and his daughter had been
very good friends, but without paternal love
on his, or filial piety on her side. Neither
of them recognized any source whence such
feelings could proceed. The association had
come to on end, and the survivor had merely
to accept the fact, and wipe it out. For
beings without a future to mope over the
memory of the past would be a waste of
time and power indeed, and one of which
the dead atheist's intelligent pupil was incapable.
She was neither sorry for her
father, nor angry with him. When she discovered

the truth about him, she indulged
in no retrospect. He had made as much
out of life for himself as the chances of his
little subdivision of the realm of accident
enabled him to make ; the contingent remainder
coming to his child when the game
was played out was no affair of his. There
was a good deal of hard fairness about the
view of this young woman, who resolved the
science of life into everyone for himself and
no God for any of us.

There was also self-control and worldly
wisdom in the polite but steady resistance
which Miss Chevenix opposed to the offers
of friendly companionship that were made
to her so soon as her father's death became
known. She felt certain that she would
have to face much that was disagreeable,
and she resolved that she would encounter
the enemy alone. When she should have
learned the worst, without the temptation
of telling it to, or the risk of its being found
out by, any female friend, she would determine

on her course of action ; then she
should know exactly what version of her
position it would suit her to give. Until
then she was deeply grateful (on black-edged
paper) for everybody's kindness, but
unable to see anybody.

From among the letters of condolence she
selected two for more careful consideration
than the rest. One was written by Mrs.
Townley Gore, the other by Mrs. Jabber
who was out of town when the death of
Mr. Chevenix occurred. Mrs. Townley
Gore's letter afforded a proof that her heart
was not altogether closed to pity for the
orphan. The sympathy and compassion
that had been appealed to in vain by the
helplessness and the solitariness of Helen
Rhodes, were called into active exercise and
eloquent expression, by the deeply-affecting
calamity that had befallen the well-known
Miss Chevenix, and the touchingly interesting
position of that much-admired young
lady. Was there anything Mrs. Townley

Gore could do for her dear afflicted young
friend ? She would come to town at once
if she were wanted ; would have come, indeed,
without a summons, only that she did
not know whether Beatrix was at the house
in Chesterfield Street, and therefore thought
it best to wait until she should hear from
her. Her anxiety for an assurance that
Beatrix was tolerably well would be extreme.


Miss Chevenix had opened a heap of
letters, this one from Mrs. Townley Gore
onions the number, without beam* at all
discomposed by the operation ; but, when
she took up Mrs. Mabberley's, her usually
steady nerves thrilled unpleasantly. The
sensation for which she was so often provoked
with herself came again to irritate
her. The letter was commonplace but kind,
and as she glanced over the first page the
thrill of her nerves subsided. It returned,
however, when she read these lines at the
top of the second page :

I will not press you to see me until you
feel disposed to do so ; but you will best
consult your own interests by admitting me
without delay, and by keeping strictly to
yourself, until we have met, any knowledge
of your father's affairs that you may have
gained. I am in full possession of them
all."

She had been right, then ! Her instinctive
aversion to Mrs. Mabberley  she plainly
admitted to herself now that it was aversion
was well founded ; the sense this woman
had stirred in her was the sense of danger.
The knowledge which she had gained
amounted to this : her father had died justin
time ; his resources, unless he had some
means of making or procuring money of
which no trace remained, would be exhausted
by the payment of his most pressing
debts, and there would remain for her 
nothing. She was dismayed at the prospect
that presented itself, as any woman might
well be, all the more so that she had no

temptation to make the disclosure against
which Mrs. Mabberley warned her. To
whom should she tell her trouble ?

Nobody would care about it. She did
not murmur at that ; her harsh fairness of
perception came in there also. Why should
people care ? Their prosperity or adversity
did not affect her. She did not expect that
her prosperity or adversity should affect
them.

Under such circumstances it would have
seemed natural that Mrs. Mabberley's letter
should have brought Miss Chevenix a kind
of relief; the writer had been her friend,
and her father's friend always; she would
at least be one with whom to consult, and
her knowledge of the truth broke the
loneliness of Miss Chevenix's position.

But this was not what Beatrix felt. Instinct
was stronger than reason in this instance;
the letter left on her the impression of
a realized fear, the sense of being taken in a
trap. She acted on the advice of the writer,

nevertheless, and when Mrs. Mabberley was
admitted to see her, she found her composed
and on her guard.

When Mrs. Mabberley told her she was
looking wonderfully well she told her the
truth. Beatrix's mourning dress, composed
of the handsomest materials, and made in
the latest fashion, set off her brilliant
colouring and stately form. The quiet,
colourless, slight little woman, who regarded
her with genuine admiration, presented a
strong contrast to her.

One might meet Mrs. Mabberley three
days in succession, and on the fourth day
not be able to remember who she was, or
where one had seen her. There was
nothing remarkable about her except her
insignificance.

She had a low, musical voice and a slow
way of speaking. She moved noiselessly,
and although she was not one of those
persons who cannot look one straight in the
face, and therefore carry a danger-signal

always display 7 ed for the warning of their
neighbours, she rarely fixed her eyes on
anybody or anything. The glance would at
first be frank and clear enough, after a
moment it would waver and droop, and
she would go on speaking, with her eyes
downcast.

Mrs. Mabberley wasted but little time in
condolences; she came to the point of her
intended discourse with a decision which
Beatrix had not previously observed in her
manner.

You have acted on the caution I gave
you, I hope?" she said.

With the last word of this short sentence,.
her eyes drooped from their look into those
of Beatrix.

I have said nothing about my father's
affairs to anybody."

Quite right ; you will presently see why,
when you and I have discussed them."

"Excuse me," said Beatrix, a sudden
anger rising in her against the power that

VOL. II. p

revealed itself in the slow, low voice, fC I do
not understand why you are to be the exception.
"

No ? then I will explain. I am to bethe
exception, because I am the only person
from whom you have anything to expect.
You know that I was, so far as your
knowledge of his friends went, your father's
closest friend. Your investigation of his
affairs has not, perhaps, disclosed to you that
I am his chief creditor."

You ?"

"Ah, I see that I was right; the only
record is in my hands. Yes, I. Look at
these and judge for yourself."

She put a packet of papers into the hands
of her hearer, and sat with downcast eyes
while Beatrix untied the string and unfolded
the first of the papers.

Look through them all before you say
anything," she went on, with a slight uplifting
of her right hand.

Beatrix obeyed, and, when she had mastered

the contents of the papers, every gleam
of colour had left her face. She handed
them to Mrs. Mabberley without a word.

You could not have had any idea things
were so bad with him could you ? Poor
man, it was not altogether his fault ; you
really ought not to condemn him too severely."


I don't. He did the best he could for
himself, I suppose. He had been accustomed
to live in a certain sort of way while the
money lasted, and he wanted to go on living
in the same."

After the money was gone. Just so.
As you say, he did the best he could for
himself; now you have to do the best you
can do for yourself."

"There's no best in the face of these.
This house is yours, the furniture is yours,
the little money there is coming-in, so far
as I know, would not pay one half of the
outstanding bills ; naturally there is no will,
since there was nothing but debt to bequeath.

f2

I have five pounds in my purse, I believe,
and my mother's pearls. I cannot see
that there is any question of ' best ' in the
matter."

Now, my dear," Mrs. Mabberley said,
with a sort of smile that hardly changed
her face at all, "you are making of me that
exception to which you objected at first, and
we shall soon understand each other. You
put the case clearly : I am your poor fathers
chief creditor, and I am secured by the possession
of the lease of this house, and a bill
of sale on the furniture. There is no need
for me to go into particulars of the transactions
between your father and myself ; we
were old friends and, in a certain sense,
associates. His notions were different from
mine. I like to have more money than I
spend ; he liked to spend more money than
he had. Everyone to his taste in this
short life, which he wanted to be merry. I
prefer its being solid and safe."

There was not a touch of irony in Mrs.

Mabberley's tone ; it was quiet, even matter-of-fact.


He acted on his theory, I on mine, and
we were useful to each other. I had been
obliged to remind him several times of late
that his debt to me ought to be reduced, and,
in the event of my having any pressing need
of money, would be very inconvenient for
himself and you. I had also reminded him
that, should his death occur while it remained
unsettled or unreduced, you would
be left destitute."

"And neither the one argument nor the
other had any effect on him," said Beatrix,
with calmness that successfully imitated Mrs.
Mabberley's, "because he knew you would
never have any pressing need of money, and
because he did not care what became of me
when there was an end of him."

You ought not to give yourself the
habit of speaking in that way," remarked
Mrs. Mabberley ; "it is bad form. I observe
that such extreme opinions as you

hold are apt to lead to bad form. I don't
quarrel with the opinions, but I object to
the form. You will find it a disadvantage."

Beatrix's eyes sparkled with anger, but
she controlled herself.

Mrs. Mabberley continued :

Besides, in this judgment of your father
you are wrong. His indifference to my
representation did not arise from his not
caring what might become of you after his
death  you must bear in mind that he had
no reason to apprehend death for several
years to come  it was due to his very just
expectation that you would make a good
marriage, and so help him out of his
difficulties. You have always known that
he hoped and believed you would marry
well."

Certainly ; he was very candid with me
upon that point when I was quite young ;
but I wish he had made me understand the
full urgency of it."

He could not, my dear ; you would

never have realized it until the occasion
arose. We never do, believe me. But we
only waste time by discussing the matter.
Let us look at the facts. They are simply
these : the house and everything in it belongs
to me, the very small amount of
property remaining in addition to the house
and furniture will certainly not even appease
the most pressing of your poor father's
other creditors, much less pay the whole.
There is nothing whatever for you. What
do you propose to do ? The Darnell affair
is, I understand, entirely off. Is that so ?"

rt That is so."

Have you made any plans ?"

None whatever. I have no relations
and no friends, no money, no means of
earning money, except by marriage, and, as
I must necessarily disappear out of the
world in which we have been living, that
chance does not count for much. I don't
know that I shall try any other, it seems
hardly worth while. I should not hesitate

for a moment between poverty, I mean
avowed, squalid poverty  the sort of thing
they call ' earning one's bread ' as a governess,
you know  and putting an end to
myself. One's instincts of life are strong
when one is still young and handsome as I
am, but, when the game is so very thoroughly
up, common sense and knowledge of
oneself can get the better of instinct, I should
think."

Mrs. Mabberley raised her eyes and
looked at the speaker with a strange
horror. This was being logical and consistent
indeed ! This was following out the
training she had received to its legitimate
end.

Miss Chevenix's manifestation of the
courage of her convictions took her hearer
aback.

Beatrix perceived the impression she had
made, and laughed scornfully.

"You are surprised to find me no longer
what I was a fortnight ago; but why?

Eat and drink, for tomorrow you die,' is
your creed as well as mine ; I only contract
it into ' As you cannot be sure of having
anything to eat or drink tomorrow, die today.'
I am not hungry and thirsty yet,
and I never mean to be ; neither do I mean
to eat bread, to drink water, or to wear
anything but Morrison's equivalent for purple
and fine linen, except my shroud."

Is this girl trying to frighten me ?"
thought Mrs. Mabberley; but she quickly
answered the question in the negative.
There was an entire disregard of her in the
look and tone of Beatrix, and her hardihood
was perfectly sincere.

Therefore," she continued, " you need
not mind, if you are disposed to feel any
scruples about claiming your own  other
people will not be so squeamish, and you
will be no more to blame than they, if you
care about blame. You had your reasons
for being patient with my father ; there's an
end, with him, of your reasons."

Pray don't talk in that shocking cynical
way," said Mrs. Mabberley, quite hurriedly
for her. " Your father often said the same
sort of thing  that he would never bear
pain or illness if there was no prospect of
cure, or "

He meant it too," interrupted Beatrix,
"and he showed his good sense and consistency.
He always had the means of ridding
himself of life at hand if he should ever
come to the deliberate conviction that death
was the least of two evils between which he
had to choose."

How do you know that? He surely did
not tell you ?"

No ; he did not ; I found it out for
myself; I found the ' means Pray don't
look so scared, Mrs. Mabberley, I am not going
to poison your tea, I am only going to
ring for it."

She rose, smiling, and rang the bell.
Mrs. Mabberley's sense of being mistress of
the situation was failing her ; her nerves

were tried by the sang-froid of this consistent
and indomitable young woman. She
rallied her strength, and fell in with Beatrix's
humour.

You are an odd creature," she said ;
only that I understand you so well, you
might make me uncomfortable. Give me
my tea, and let us be business-like."

Beatrix gave Mrs. Mabberley her tea, and
preserved unbroken silence and an unchanging
smile while she drank it. It amused
her, it relieved her to a certain extent to
discompose this woman, of whom she was
more than ever afraid, but she was perfectly
in earnest in all she said.

"Now," said Mrs. Mabberley, "I will
tell you why I wrote to you that it would
be for your interest to see me soon, and
to keep your own counsel in the meantime.
It was not only because I had to
say what I have said, it was because I intended
to make you an offer of help in this
trouble."

ei Help! when all there is would barely-pay
the debt due to you."

Yes ; help. Listen to rue. You are so
well aware of all the advantages of the
position that has hitherto been yours that
there is no need for me to dilate upon them.
The terrible things you have said to me
sufficiently prove that you have correctly
counted the cost of losing it. If, at your age
and with your beauty and health, you can
deliberately prefer death, to deprivation of
the luxuries and the pleasures of life, to exerting
yourself to earn a livelihood, to facing
the battle in whose front so many women
stand defenceless ; you will be able to
estimate at its value the offer I now make
you. If you will agree to my terms, I will
hold over my own claims on your father's
estate ; and I will make an arrangement
with the other creditors which will free
you from any annoyance. Until you shall
have made a suitable marriage, I will enable
you to maintain precisely the same appearance

as before, so that all the world may
take you for the inheritor of your father's
fortune, to whom his death has made no
external difference."

Beatrix listened with amazement. Had
she been wrong after all ? Had her presentiment
misled her? Was this woman,
whom she feared, to be her rescuer ? The
surprise broke down even her composure ;
she said, faintly :

Do you mean it? Can this be true ?"

I perfectly mean it."

And the terms ?"

They are simple, and will not prove
unpleasant, I believe. I propose that you
come and live in my house, under my
chaperonage  everything shall be made
agreeable for you  that you consult me
with regard to your movements, cultivate
the people whom I recommend, accept the
invitations which I select, and undertake, if
you get a good offer of marriage, to fix the
time for your marriage at my dictation.

Those are my terms ; the proposal is to take
or to leave."

And the alternative?"

Mrs. Mabberley slowly shrugged her
shoulders, and slowly lifted and let fall
her hands.

She said nothing ; but Beatrix was answered.


You mean that, if I refuse, you will
have your bond ?"

U I mean that I shall enforce my claim.
Have you anything to urge against it ?"

Nothing. Come, Mrs. Mabberley, be
frank with me, this is only a pretence of
frankness. What is your motive in making
me so extraordinary an offer ? It is not
compassion for me, you are no more compassionate
than I am ; it is not affection forme,
you do not like me. You were my
father's friend, I know  you have never been
mine in reality  and under this marvellous
offer to pull me out of the gulf of ruin, and
save me from even being suspected of poverty,

there is some strong motive. What it
can be it is impossible for me to guess, but
one exists.' 1

Your frankness, my dear, is real enough
to do for both of us," answered Mrs. Mab-barley,
in her slow, placid manner as if there
had been no sting at all in the words of Beatrix.
" To a certain extent I propose to
imitate it. My motive is not compassion for
you, nor affection for you ; it suits me to do
this thing, and that is all I mean to tell you.
You will believe me, I am sure, when I say
that no one finds out a secret which I choose
to keep. I choose to keep this one. The
offer I make you, in perfect good faith, is your
business; all the rest is mine. It is, as I said
before, to take or to leave."

11 And you will positively tell me no
more? On this only I must make up my
mind ?"

I will positively tell you no more,
except that the motive which actuates me is
one that cannot harm you."

"And I must make up my mind soon ?"

In three days I shall come for your decision.
In three days you will see your
position here even more clearly than you
see it now, and I don't wish you to be surprised
or hurried into accepting my offer.
If you decide in your own favour there will
be no trouble to you in the matter. Now
I will leave you. Stay, there is just one
very trifling stipulation  I had almost forgotten
it  that I wish to make."

Mrs. Mabberley had risen, and was approaching
the door, as she uttered the last
words.

The stipulation was very trifling, it had
quite the air of an afterthought ; and Beatrix
hardly commented upon it. That, if she
accepted the whole proposal, she should
accept so trivial a part of it, went without
saying.

Left to herself, Beatrix pondered for
hours upon what had passed. The riddle
was beyond her reading ; the point on which

she finally concentrated all her thoughts was
the absolute hopelessness of her present condition.
As she paced the room to and fro,
her glance fell on Mrs. Townley Gore's last
letter, and she suddenly remembered the
mood in which she had been when she replied
to the former one. She remembered
what she had said to herself about Mr.
Horndean ; and she thought how securely
far from a chance of captivating her brother
Mrs. Townley Gore would keep her dear
afflicted young friend, if she had any notion
of the truth ; and how readily other women
of the world would adopt similar precautions.
The reflection served as a spur to
her intent ; nor did that day pass over without
its being stimulated in other ways.

Miss Chevenix had not been prepared for
the very immediate and peremptory pressure
of their claims by her father's and her
own creditors. She had supposed she would
have been given what she called " time to
breathe," but she was not. It was almost

VOL. II. G

as though some malign influence had been
brought to bear, especially in the case of
Beatrix's personal debts, and, when the demands
poured in upon her, she stood aghast
at their magnitude. She would not have
believed it possible that she could owe all
that money ! Not that the amount mattered
much, so far as she was concerned, for it
would either never be paid at all, or it
would be paid in part, at all events, by Mrs.
Mabberley, according to her extraordinary
proposal ; still it did startle her. And this
too pricked the sides of her intent, for she
was resolved not even to contemplate a future
in which she should have to do without
any of the personal luxuries for which she
owed that money. No, not she. Fate might
force hopeless pain, miserable sickness, abject
poverty, upon those who would submit
to be its slave ; fate should never force them
upon her.

The days passed, and each hour of them
taught her the lesson Mrs. Mabberley had

reckoned upon. On the third Mrs. Jabber
presented herself in Miss Chevenix's
drawing-room, as quiet, as slow-spoken, as
insignificant as ever ; and, as she took the
cold hand that Beatrix extended to her,
she said :

I have come for your answer, my dear.
Do you consent or refuse ?"

I consent."

"Then it's a bargain."

g2

CHAPTER V.

AFTER MANY DAYS.

rilHE heart-sickness of hope deferred was
-*- not slow to lay hold on Helen Rhodes.
When the week for which she knew that
she must wait for Frank passed by, and
there was no word from him to break the
monotony of her existence, she fell into a
condition of extreme alarm. She had borne
the silence and the watching throughout
those seven days with patient misery, and
on the termination of them she was greatly
excited.

He will come tomorrow and explain,
and all will be well," she said to herself.

She made such little addition to her plain
mourning-dress as was in her power, without
departing from her resolution to expend
no money until she should be Frank's wife ;
and she told Delphine with a smile that her
husband was certainly to come that day.

He did not come, and, when the night fell,
and Helen was left alone, a deadly fear took
possession of her. Was Frank dead ? Beyond
that horrible possibility she could not
look. She never thought of herself as the
lost and forsaken creature she must be if
the fear that had suggested itself proved
true. That fear seemed to paralyse her, to
fetter all the resources of thought, and fix
them on the production of itself.

When Delphine came to her in the morning,
the look in the girl's eyes, the dumb
unfathomable fear of it, frightened her.

Helen did not ask her a question, she only
raised herself on her pillow, and gazed at
Delphine.

"No, there are no letters for madame today

any more than on the other days ; but y
mon Dieu, madame must not be so much
alarmed, it is only a day after the time, and,
who knows, monsieur may be on the road
this very hour."

"Thank you," said Helen, gently. "I
think I will not get up yet, I do not feel
quite well."

Then she turned away her face, and lay
still and silent for several hours.

The days went on, and Helen suffered
all the varied agonies of suspense in their
utmost intensity ; the restlessness, the torpor,
the concentration of the mind on one absorbing
subject, and the uncontrollable
straying of the mind from it, with the quick
pain of recurrence to it ; the physical irritability,
the deadly sickness, the thrilling and
starting of the nerves. It was strange that
she did not succumb to the mental suffering
of that time, and lose at least a portion of
it in severe bodily illness ; but her youth
and her hitherto untried, uninjured health

aided her, if aid it could be called. Her
colour faded, and the bright girlishness departed
from her aspect never to return, but
she was not attacked by illness. Though
every leaden-footed hour was weighted with
pain, and needed an effort to live through,
the time was never afterwards entirely clear
in her memory. She could recall a part
of it in a broken way, shaking its incidents
and her feelings together like the bits of
glass in a kaleidoscope, but long lapses of it
escaped her altogether.

She strove to occupy herself, and found
in needlework the resource that it has
afforded to many unquiet minds. It was
only rarely that she could read, during the
hours of the day that succeeded to the vain
watch of the morning for the letter that did
not arrive, and before the restless agony of
the vain watch of the evening had set in ;
but she knew nothing afterwards of what
she had read. In the days to come, the
mere sight of certain books would recall

the qualms and terrors of that wretched
time.

At first, while she did not admit any
doubt of Frank Lisle, while her only attempt
at explaining his absence and his
silence was the dreadful supposition of his
death, she did not leave the house at all.
What if she were to go out, and the news
were to arrive, and she not there ? suggested
her terrors ; what if he, Frank himself,
were to arrive and she not there?
suggested her feeble, expiring hopes.

All day she would sit by a window
which commanded a turn of the high-road,
and, pushing the hangings back behind her
chair, would watch every vehicle as it came
up and passed, working fitfully the while,
with long intervals of listless idleness and
down-hanging hands. But as time went
on, and the beautiful spring advanced into
the supreme loveliness of that season in
Paris and its environs, Helen began to feel
the want of air, and a desperate longing to

go out. She would not disregard the lightest
word that Frank had said to her ; she never
turned her steps towards Paris ; she did not
even go to the entrance of the Bois, their
old meeting-place ; but she would walk
sedately about Neuilly, and the shady roads
adjoining, closely veiled and evading notice,
feeling the soothing and strengthening influence
of the fresh air. She took no heed
of the human life about her ; it seemed to
her that she was a being apart, shut out
from her kind. Her solitude was rendered
complete and overwhelming by the falseness
of her new position ; this mere girl, as unexperienced
as a child, was living utterly
alone, and living a lie !

By degrees it became evident, even to her
unsuspiciousness and inexperience, that she
was the object of curiosity but little tempered
with sympathy both to Delphine and
her mother. The veneer of respect and
observance with which the venality of Madame
Moreau had covered her native coarseness

and hardness, was wearing off. Helen
felt sure that Delphine had not revealed
what she knew to her mother ; but she had
no greater faith in her on that account. A
cold and cruel curiosity showed itself too
often in the hard, handsome, sensual face
that watched her unsparingly ; and there
was a relaxation in the small attentions with
which Delphine had at first surrounded her,
that Helen's quick sensitiveness recognized
at once. She did not care for these things,
she had not been used to much personal
observance, but she knew as well as the
wisest, by the instinct of her gentlewoman-hood,
what the omission of them meant.
What did Delphine believe concerning her?
That she was Frank Lisle's wife and he had
deserted her, or that she was not his wife at
all, and in either case a person whom there
was little honour or profit in serving ? In
her dread and perplexity she had said to
Delphine that he was dead, she was sure he
was dead ; but the shrewd answer which

Delphine made warned her to be on her
guard against self-betrayal.

It is impossible," she said ; " the friends
of monsieur would send the news at once
to the wife of monsieur ; she would have
the first right, nothing could be done without
her. No, monsieur is not dead ; something
has happened, but it is not that."

A little later this was followed by a hint
that, if madame was not altogether "well"
with the family of monsieur, there must befriends
of his to whom she might apply.
How was she to meet this? The question
itself forced her for the first time to realize
that she knew absolutely nothing of the
family or the circumstances of the man into
whose hands she had given her future. He
had never talked to her of his relatives ;
she did not even know whether he had
parents living. She had reason to believe
that her own existence was utterly unknown
to anyone connected with Frank Lisle ; she
knew, although she dared not admit the

knowledge, that he might be lying dead
anywhere, and the intelligence never reach
her, in consequence of his own precautions
for the keeping of their secret. The name
of his friend, on whose account secrecy towards
Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore was indispensable,
had never escaped his lips ; she
had no notion where this friend was ; of late
they had never talked about him. Of w r hat,
indeed, had they talked, except of the sweetness
and the bliss of their own young love
and hope? And now, almost the worst
part of what Helen had to suffer was the
shrinking from the remembrance of that
happiness, because it was becoming terrible.
When memory importuned her with the
dear words and the eloquent looks that had
made the wilderness of her unloved existence
to blossom with the roses of paradise,
and fertilised it with the waters of life, she
was seized with dread : she felt as if they
were something from which she must fly, a
phantom to haunt and terrify her.

At first, when the days passed and no
word from Frank Lisle reached her, Helen
had been sorely tempted, notwithstanding
her lover's prohibition, to go in search of
Jane Merrick, but she had refrained ; and
then, as the dreadful sense grew upon her
that, let the cause be what it might, she
was forsaken and desolate, despair came
up to her on that side also, and asked her,
in its sinister, voiceless way, what story she
would have to tell to her friend ? At the
question, her poor pretence of courage gave
way, and she laid her head upon her outstretched
arms and cried until her tears
were all exhausted. This was followed by
a stage of dull, stupefied suffering, in and
after which Helen ceased to wish for Jane's
presence and help, ceased to think about
her, was simply crushed under the weight
of her sorrow.

At this time that sorrow might, perhaps,
have killed her, or deprived her of her
senses, had she not been roused from it, to

a certain extent, by the presentation of
another aspect of her position in a direct
and irresistible manner. Madame Moreau
had been dishonest in her dealings with the
helpless and ignorant girl from the first,
even when the daily expected return of
Mr. Lisle might possibly expose her to detection.
Perhaps she regarded Helens
helplessness and ignorance as a providential
intervention on her own behalf, and would
not be so ungrateful as to allow it to take
place in vain. She became increasingly bold
with the extension of Helen's solitude and
suspense. The little store of money in the
table-drawer, the " slice out of their fortune,"
as Frank Lisle had said jestingly, had
diminished with alarming rapidity under the
demands made upon it. The Moreau family,
husband, wife, and daughter, were all of
one mind with respect to Helen, although
Delphine had the advantage of her parents
in point of information. They had ceased
to believe in the story of the marriage, and

they had arrived at the conclusion that
madame would see no more of monsieur.

"Those English are originals," remarked
Moreau, " he has seen somebody he likes
better, and has planted her there. Well,
that is nothing to us, provided she pays."

They took care she should pay. And
such was her helplessness, such w T as their
cupidity, that Madame Moreau would furnish
her with a pretended account, in which were
set down things that Helen had never had,
at prices which even she knew to be exorbitant,
and she had no courage to dispute
them. What would it avail ? she would
ask herself ruefully ; they would only deny
the truth, and quarrel with her, perhaps ill-treat
her, and she was entirely in their
power. In all the great, lonely, terrible
city there were no familiar faces, no voices
that she knew, except the faces and the
voices of these three people whom she came
to regard with a ceaseless but secret dread.

Delphine had been inclined to like her at

first, but the gentleness, the simple-mindedness
of Helen bored and weaned the French
girl, who would have been a first-rate confidant
for an intricate, and she became so
provoked with her patience and her reserve
that it was only occasionally she softened
towards her, and that contempt was instigated
by pity. She helped her mother to
pillage the poor girl, who would sometimes
timidly appeal to her as to whether she did
not think money went very quickly, and
they got very little for it, but she was not
so stolidly unimaginative as Madame Moreau,
and she indulged in a good deal of speculation
as to what was eventually likely to become
of Helen, in case Mr. Lisle actually
never did turn up. What would happen
when, for instance, the six months for which
the apartment was taken should have expired,
and madame must find some other
place to live in, and money to pay the rent ?
Well, Delphine made a forecast of what
would happen by the aid of a proverb.

Qui a bu, boira," this knowing young lady-would
say to herself, and she would reflect
with candid envy upon the good fortune of
a woman who could count upon opportunities
of drinking again of the sparkling spring
of pleasure, admiration, and what she called
love. The position was triste for the moment,
certainly, and it was madame's way
to make it all the more triste, but when the
money-drawer should be empty, and all
hope of Mr. Lisle's return gone, she would
have to look about her, and to console
herself like another.

It was this reasonable conclusion that,
unconsciously to herself, infused into Delphine's
manner, as the period of Helen's
agony of suspense prolonged itself, a certain
disdainful familiarity, something which conveyed
to her that Delphine understood that
the pretence of the marriage was dropped
on the one side, and the affectation of believing
in it abandoned on the other. From
her perception of this, Helen, on whom her

VOL. II. H

forlorn position was producing the educational
effect of years, shrank with intolerable
shame and pain ; and day by day her
manner became more timid and embarrassed.
The keen, vulgar eyes that watched
her noted the dread they inspired, and
exulted in it. The money-drawer was
nearly empty now, the time was coming
fast when that terrible question, of old,
haunting memory, " What is to become of
me?" must whisper itself remorselessly in
Helen's heart by day and night.

Since the day of their mutual recognition,
and her brief explanation of her position,
she had never spoken to Delphine of the
past time at the house in the Avenue du
Bois de Boulogne, and she had never gone
near the house. Delphine resented this
reserve ; it would have been a pleasant way
of breaking down the barrier between them
if she could have led Helen to talk of the
English people who had been so mysteriously
at once something and nothing to

her ; but Helen was not to be led into
any confidences. Delphine told her one
day that the house was again let to English
people, but Helen took little heed of the
information. She was busy, as usual, with
her work, and she did not pause or look up
from it.

"An English gentleman with a strange
name, even stranger than most English
names  I cannot say it  has taken the house.
He is there, but not for long; he is going
to Italy, and when he comes back his sister
and her children will come with him."

Indeed," said Helen, absently answering
only to avoid offending Delphine, "from
Italy?"

"No, from the Indies, the Indies of the
East."

The Indies of the East P Helen paused
now and let her work fall, while her eyes
filled with quick and painful tears. She
had almost forgotten her father ! The new
love and the new anguish had obscured the

h 2

old, but into the desolation of her brooding
thoughts at that moment they came rushing
back, and so agitated her that Delphine
eyed her with surprise and suspicion. She
was sorry if she had said anything to offend
madame.

You have not," said Helen, gently,
only I had not heard India mentioned
for a long time, and it was there that my
father died."

So far away ! Madame had then made
the voyage ?"

Helen explained in a few words that she
had never been in India, and then the
matter dropped, but she thought of it again
in the evening, and asked Delphine to
ascertain the name of the English gentleman
who had taken the house in the Avenue
du Bois.

You could say it very well if you would
only try, Delphine," she said, " for you are
getting on wonderfully with English ; you
speak the language now as well as I

speak French, after all the teaching I had
at school."

Delphine's eyes sparkled at this compliment,
which was sincere and well-merited,
and she took care to justify it by telling
Helen on the following day that the English
gentleman's name was " Warrender," and
pronouncing it correctly.

I never heard the name before," said
Helen. " You are right, it is a hard
one."

She had had a vague, unreasonable hope
that the name might be one that had been
mentioned in her father's letters. So profound
was her solitude, that the mere idea
of some one who might, under other circumstances,
have been claimed as a friend by
her, gave her a faint kind of relief, and its
extinction caused her a pang of disappointment.


How she hated herself for the dulness
and indifference to her father's memory
that had been creeping over her ! Could

it be possible that all this time she had
hardly thought of him, being so absorbed
in her love and her misery ?

It seemed all the more incredible, when
she recalled the fact that it was the accidental
discovery of the link between Frank
and her father's memory which had led to
the prolongation of her accidental acquaintance
with Mr. Lisle. How she had indulged
her romantic fancy with the hope that the
beloved father who was hidden from her,
had still a share in her life, and knew
and loved Frank ! How utterly she had
parted with that idea when the dread and
the suspense of all these weeks had come
upon her ! An accusing sense of faithlessness
to the memory of her beloved dead
shot a fresh arrow into the girl's stricken
heart.

"She looks very ill," said Delphine,
seriously to her mother that night. " She
has not touched her dinner or spoken a
word, and I think she has cried all day

She will have a great illness if something
is not heard of monsieur soon."

The following day was Sunday, and
Helen went out in the afternoon, alone as
usual, and veiled ; but her head ached badly,
and she was forced to put her veil aside,
that the air might come to her tired eyes
and throbbing brow.

There were a great many people about,
for the day was beautiful, and the holiday-makers
were enjoying it as only Parisians
do enjoy fine weather ; but Helen was perfectly
regardless of them.

She walked on, her eyes fixed straight
before her, and her head bent with the
weary air that was now habitual to her.

The Memorial Chapel erected on the spot
where Queen Marie Amelia watched the
last moments of her darling son, Philip,
Duke of Orleans, was a favourite resort of
Helen's. As she now passed it, the old retainer
of the Orleans family who has charge
of the chapel opened the gate for the exit

of an elderly gentleman, an elderly lady,
and a young but staid-looking woman, with
a pale, plain face and magnificent black
hair.

The three turned into the pathway, and
came straight towards Helen, who, on seeing
them, shrank back, giddy and trembling,
and laid her hand upon the railing. In an
instant the young woman sprang forward,
with a cry of, " Good Heaven ! It is
Helen!" and the fainting girl was in the
strong clasp of Jane Merrick's arms.

CHAPTER VI.

MADAME MORRISON.

~W HERE am 1 ? "

u Hush, dear, you must not try to
speak just yet. You are with me, and
quite safe."

"Jane, is it not?"

Yes, Jane. Drink this, and lie
still."

Helen obeyed, with a curious languor,
and a sort of suspension of thought. She
had no distinct knowledge of what had
occurred, but she did not particularly care ;
she was too weak to concern herself about
anything. Jane Merrick, anxiously watching

her on her recovery from the prolonged
fainting fit that had followed her recognition
of her friend, and during which she
had been taken in a carriage to Madame
Morrison's apartment, presently had the
relief of seeing her fall into a deep and
tranquil sleep.

She will do quite well' said the English
doctor, who had been sent for, and who
fancied he had seen his young patient before,
but could not remember where, or under
what circumstances. " She wants nothing
but rest and quiet. There's nothing wrong
with her."

It is very strange that she should faint
dead off like that, at the sight of an old
friend ! She must be in a very weak state,
don't you think so, Dr. Macgavan ?"

"No. She has no appearance of ill-health
; the cause is in the mind, I should
say. Who is she ? I have certainly seen
her somewhere."

She is an old friend of mine, her name

is Helen Rhodes, and her story is a sad
one. Her ' father died suddenly in India,
and she was, not adopted exactly, I should
say taken up, by people of the name of
Townley Gore. They must be proud,
unkind people, for poor Helen has quite
given me up, I have not heard anything of
her for months, and I know that was not
her own doing. I had no idea that Mr.
and Mrs. Townley Gore were in Paris,
though the lady is one of my aunt's customers."


They are not in Paris ; at least I think
not."

But they must be, doctor ! How could
Helen be here if they were not ?"

Ah ! I cannot say anything about that.
I remember now, it was at their house in
the Avenue du Bois that I saw your pretty
friend. Mr. Townley Gore had an obstinate
fit of gout, and I saw him almost daily.
But he left Paris two months ago. I had
some trouble to prevent his going away before

I considered it safe ; there was some
pressing matter of business on hand, and
madame preceded her husband. I presume
the young lady accompanied her ; but
I know the whole party returned to England,
for a friend of mine, Mr. Warrender,
of Chesney Manor, in Hampshire, has taken
the house they had."

{i I wish I knew where they are. They
will be alarmed about Helen. If I could
just get her to tell me the address, I could
send a message to relieve their minds at
once. I thought there might be a card ora
letter in her pocket, and that we could
have taken her to her home, but there is
nothing of the kind."

"Don't wake her for that, or any purpose.
She will not sleep long, and she will
wake quite well. Give her a bouillon and
some wine, and you may then take her
home with perfect safety."

So saying, Doctor Macgavan, a cheery
gentleman, so unmistakably British of

aspect that he might have seen Paris for
the first time that day, but who had in
reality practised medicine in that city for
twenty years, took his leave.

Jane Merrick seated herself by the side
of the bed on which they had laid Helen,
and gazed thoughtfully at the fair young
sleeper. The months that had passed since
they parted had wrought a great change in
Helen's looks, a change of a kind for which
Jane Merrick instinctively sought a moral
cause.

She has not been happy," so said Jane
to herself, as she noted the pensive expression
into which the delicate features settled
themselves in sleep : the slight darkening of
the eyelids, and depression of the cheeks,
the occasional faint quivering of the lips,
and the deep sigh with which a change of
position was accompanied. " She has not
been happy. The wonderful piece of good
fortune, as I took it to be, has not proved
so real as it looked. Would it have been

better for her if she had never had any
chance except that which my good aunt
offered her? How has she been treated?
I tried to think that these people were
right in dividing her from me ; according to
their notions I could not blame them ; but
she looks as if she had had something more
than that to bear. She is not the c bonnie
bird ' of our old days at the Hill House,
and she would not have fainted on seeing
me, if the surprise had not been a painful
one. No embarrassment, no fear that I
should resent her submission to the will of
her protectors, would have produced such
an effect as that. Something has happened
to her; something is gravely wrong with
her ; and, come what will, I lose sight of
her no more."

Helen turned her head upon the pillow,
and let her left arm fall over the edge of
the bed. Very gently Jane Merrick took
the small white hand in hers. There were
two or three simple rings on the fingers,

and among them, one at sight of which
Jane started. It was a thick, plain gold
ring, an " alliance" of the English fashion,
and worn on the " wedding-finger." What
did this mean ? It might be accident ; the
ring might be the wedding-ring of Helen's
mother; though Jane had never seen Helen
wear, or heard her speak of such a ring,
and she might not know that it ought not
to be worn thus ; or it might mean that
Helen was herself a wife. In that case,
Helen must, of her own free will, have left
Jane ignorant of the fact, the power of Mr.
and Mrs. Townley Gore over her existing
no longer. There was a sharp pang of pain
in the thought, and Jane gently released
the passive hand from her hold. Alas she
married, and unhappy ? With the instinct
of her sex and her calling, Jane scanned
Helen's attire. There might be much to
learn from that. Her dress was very
simple and inexpensive, neatly put on, and
not unbecoming; but it was the garb of

mourning, and not an article that composed
it was new. Her gloves and boots had
been removed when Madame Morrison and
Jane laid her on the bed. The gloves
were mended, the boots were worn. The
few rings, not one of them valuable, and a
pin, with which her light mantle was
fastened, formed her only ornaments.
Jane examined the pin. It was a fine
cameo, engraved with the head of Apollo,
surrounded by a laurel-wreath in green
enamel, beautifully wrought.

That pin belonged to a man," said Jane
to herself, as she replaced it in the mantle.
It is a scarf-pin. The wedding-ring is her
own. Helen is married. Poor child ! poor
child !"

She resumed her place and waited. Half
an hour later Helen woke, and looked
around. Her eyes were bright ; her intelligence
was all alive. She sat up and pushed
back her loosened hair. Then Jane stepped
gently forward, and said :

"You are better now, dear Helen, and
the first thing to be done is to send word to
your home that you are safe. Time has
been lost already, but the doctor would
not allow you to be disturbed. Tell me
your address. Mr. Townley Gore's, is it
not ? I will send off a messenger at once.
You must remain here for some hours yet."

Jane was inexpressibly shocked and startled
by the effect which her words produced.
Helen sprang to the ground, and catching
hold of the rail of Jane's chair, said, hurriedly
:

I cannot, I cannot. Do not detain me,
do not ask me any questions, but let me goat
once. Thank you, thank you a thousand
times. I don't know what made me so ill.
I don't know what happened to me exactly.
I cannot stay with you now. I cannot tell
you anything now. Another time, perhaps.
I must, I must go."

Alone ! And after having been so ill !
It is impossible! Be reasonable. Helen.

VOL. II. I

What is the matter with you ? What have
I done to you? If you are forbidden by
Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore to see me, so
be it; but at least you may let me take
you home. Indeed you must. You are
unfit to leave this house alone, and nothing
shall make me let you do it. My aunt will
be back in a few minutes. She will say
the same."

Helen stood clinging to the chair, and
trembling. She looked wildly round her,
like a creature hunted or newly imprisoned.
She passed her hand across her forehead,
and drew her breath with a gasp.

"Dearest Helen," said Jane, attempting
to take her hand, but Helen withdrew it,
"don't look afraid of me. Is there anything
very wrong with you ? You were frightened
when you saw me to-day. Why ? Remember
all we were to each other for so
long, remember what we promised each
other when we parted, and tell me what is

wrong with you. Are you unhappy ? Are
they unkind to you ?"

"They? Whom?"

"TheTownley Gores."

The colour flew up over Helen's face, dyeing
it to the roots of her hair, and her eyes
fell before the grave, pitying, imploring gaze
of Jane's.

I know nothing about them. I am not
with them now."

Then with whom are you?" asked Jane.
"Tell me the truth, I entreat of you. What
has happened ? Oh, Helen !"  she caught
the reluctant left hand, and held it up before
the girl's eyes  " are you married ?"

The question broke down Helen's guard,
and put all her short-lived resistance to
flight. A tide of terrible emotion rushed
over her, and the bitterness of its waters
was the bitterness of self-delusion, of trust
betrayed, of hope deferred, of sickening fear
and loneliness, of utter discouragement, and

i2

the exhaustion of a prolonged suspense.
Mingled with this bitterness there was a
strange relief and an irresistible yearning,
and the tide carried Helen away with it.
She could not turn from the grave and loving
eyes that sought to read her very soul,
she could not go back to the unshared misery
and the haunting fear of her daily life, now
that with Jane's face there had come a
glimpse of deliverance. If Frank Lisle were
living, and she should ever see him again,
he would understand that in her supreme
wretchedness she had at last been forced
to disobey him, and he would forgive
her.

These, and a thousand other thoughts,
rushed into her mind, in one of those immeasurably
brief instants which reveal to us the
capacities of our souls to think and to suffer,
and with a low cry of t{ Jane, Jane, I will
tell you everything !" she sank into the chair
beside her and gave way to a passion of
salutary tears.

Madame Morrison's spacious and handsome
apartment was situated above her
show-rooms, which occupied two floors
of a large house in the Rue de Tivoli, fronting
the garden of the Tuileries, and adjoining
the warehouse in which her husband
had already amassed a considerable
fortune in the Lyons trade. The beautiful
products of the looms of La Guillotine
and La Croix Rouge  where half-naked
men, ferocious of aspect and sentiment, (in
politics), turn out in vast, grimy, unwholesome
rooms the most poetical and exquisite
of fabrics, the cream-coloured robes of our
brides, the dainty court trains of our debut-ante,
the stately gowns of our noble matrons,
the gorgeous hangings of our palaces, and
the sumptuous adornment of our churches,
were the objects in which Mr. Morrison
dealt. So well-established was the
fame of the house, that, although he was
not a manufacturer, his silks, satins, velvets,

and brocades were specialities, and called by
his name.

Mr. Morrison was an elderly person, of
gentlemanly appearance and manners, and
Madame Morrison, his wife, who had made
for herself a name as good as her husband's,
was in every way worthy of him. They
were well enough off to retire from business?
but neither of them had any inclination todo
so. They did not propose to themselves
to assume any position but that respectable
one which was fairly theirs, and a life of
idleness had no charms for them. They
could neither take nor pretend to take to
pursuits other than those they had hitherto
followed at their time of life ; and they
were quite content with their lot.

Madame Morrison's niece, Jane Merrick,
was an object of equal affection to the husband
and the wife ; they were so fond of
her that they were almost consoled by her
for the great grief of childlessness, and they
did form plans for Jane's future, apart from

the business, although they formed none for
their own. The French system of marriage
was no more to the taste of Jane's aunt and
uncle than to that of Jane herself, but they
were wise and perspicuous persons, and they
kept to themselves their opinion of that system,
as of a good many others which they
saw in action around them. They had
chosen to make their abode in France, and
they had made a very good thing of the
choice. It was not for them to speak ill of
the bridge which had carried them over,
but there was no occasion for them to marry
their niece on the French system, and they
did not intend to do so. This was, of course,
a point upon which they were completely
misunderstood, and it was a settled part of
the business of their life to dispose, politely
and without giving offence, of the numerous
aspirants to the heart and dot of their niece.
Jane herself had no wish to marry. The
truth was that she was quite happy with her
aunt and uncle, persons of cultivated tastes,

and manners which were the true reflection
of their benevolence and uprightness. The
trio was a pleasant and contented one,
and the severest mortification that Madame
Morrison had ever sustained (in anything
connected with her niece) was the supposed
prohibition of the friendship between Jane
and Helen. After all, that was not very
severe, for Jane did not seem to mind it,
and Madame Morrison had a full and
alienable right to her conviction that the
real loser by the severance was not her
niece. Perhaps there is no one who enjoys
better opportunities than her modiste for
knowing a woman's real character, and especially
her temper. Madame Morrison, a student
of character in her way, had observed
Mrs. Townley Gore with some closeness and
curiosity ; and with this result, that she believed
her to be as much the inferior of Jane
Merrick, as selfishness is the inferior of disinterestedness,
and a heartless vanity is the
inferior of simplicity and elevation of mind.

She had not really known how much her
niece suffered from the separation from
Helen. Perhaps no married woman, with
the supreme and pressing interests and business
of life to occupy her, could enter fully
into a girl's feelings about her own particular
friend, and the matter had not been referred
to for a considerable time. When
the unexpected meeting took place at
Neuilly, and with so startling a result, all
the womanly tenderness and kindness of
Madame Morrison's nature woke up, and
she was as eager as Jane herself in her
attention to the fainting girl. She was
called away as Helen began to recover
consciousness, and on her return met Dr.
MacGavan, who had just left his patient,
and he told her that Helen was sleeping.
A full hour elapsed, and then Jane Merrick
appeared before her aunt, so pale and
agitated that Madame Morrison was alarmed.
My dear child," she exclaimed, "what
is the matter ? Is Miss Rhodes ill again ?"

No, she is better ; but she has told me
so sad and serious a story that I must tell it
to you without a moment's delay. Give me
your best attention, aunt."

Jane Merrick repeated to Madame Morrison
the story which she had heard from
Helen. Her aunt listened without interrupting
her, and in her face Jane could
read the impression which her words were
producing.

And now," said Jane, in conclusion,
what is to be done? She is alone, helpless,
almost penniless ; and she has no idea
of the gravity of her position."

This," said Madame Morrison, " is one
of the most terrible stories I ever heard.
What has become of the man ? Had he
ever any intention of marrying her? I
cannot believe that he had."

"That is the horrid conviction I had when
she told me her story."

What utter folly on her part !"

Yes, but also what utter ignorance and

innocence ! Helen had not the remotest
notion of what she was doing ; she does not
understand it even now ; she thinks of
nothing but her grief and suspense about
her lover. She has not the least notion
that she has done a terribly imprudent
thing, and that she has incurred grave
suspicion."

Mrs. Townley Gore can have taken no
care at all of her. I don't mean in the true
sense, but in any sense that would be satisfactory
to the fitness of things, even as
people like her interpret it."

"She was most unkind. Helen has not
said much ; but what must she have been,
aunt, when a girl like Helen was so solitary
under her roof that she could be placed in
such a position of danger, and not dare to
speak to her ? The man must have known
well how helpless and alone she was, before
he ventured to ask her to leave her protectors
and trust to him  a stranger ! I
wonder," Jane continued, her voice thrilling

and her face transfigured by the intensity of
her feelings  " I* wonder how Mrs. Townley
Gore would answer to God for the fate of
that young girl ?"

"She would answer," said Madame Morrison,
"in the words of the question of
Cain : Am 1 my brothers keeper ? She
would acknowledge no responsibility. What
is it to her ? What is the happiness or the
misery of anybody to people such as Mrs.
Townley Gore? But we waste time in
talking about her. What does the poor girl
think  what does she propose ?"

"Nothing; she is utterly unnerved. I
left her lying on the sofa in my room, and
told her I must consult with you. It washer
fear of me that made her faint when
she saw me, and yet she is immensely relieved
now that she has told me, and she
clings to me so pitifully ! Oh, dear aunt,
she seems strangely afraid of going back to
the place she is living at. I cannot make
out very distinctly what she means; but

it seems to me that she is afraid of the
people there ; the concierge and his wife,
and their daughter, who is her femme de
chambre"

"All harpies and wretches, I daresay,"
said Madame Morrison, who was given to
sweeping generalisations, "and they make
her feel her equivocal position thoroughly.
Yet she must go back, and I see in your
face what you want, but it cannot be ; I
cannot have you mixed up in any business
of the kind. No, no, we will get her out
of it if possible, and she will only be
brought to that by hearing home truths from
me ; but you cannot stay at the place where
she is living under false pretences and a
false name. You must see that for yourself,
Jane."

"I don't quite see it, aunt; but I am
bound to take your word for it, and to do
what you think right. It is getting late,
we must come to some decision. You will
let me bring her here ? Remember that she

has no notion of any wrong-doing in all
this, beyond a vague idea that she ought to
have held out against deceiving the people
she was with."

She shall come here when she pleases,
Jane ; be satisfied with that. And now goto
her; tell her to calm herself, that she
has found friends, and that I am going to
take her home myself. I will send for a
carriage at once. I shall be better able to
understand all this when I have seen the
place, and she will be more inclined to
confide in me when I am quite alone with
her. You and your uncle must dine without
me, and do not expect me until you seeme.


The surprise of Delphine when Madame
Lisle, who did not, to her knowledge, possess
a single acquaintance in Paris, returned
home, accompanied by a lady so perfectly
comme il faut as Madame Morrison, was
extreme. It was accompanied by a slightly
unpleasant sensation, for might not this

handsomely-dressed, clever-looking person
give Madame Lisle some domestic hints
which would not be consonant with the
interests of Delphine and her parents. She
would have viewed anybody with suspicion
who came to interfere with her rule over
the timid girl, more and more at her mercy
day by day, and her first quick, sharp, investigating
glance at the stranger was met
by a look of distrust, in which Delphine
instinctively felt there was a menace.

It was Madame Morrison who replied to
Delphine's officious inquiries  for Helen said
not a word  in a cool tone of authority.

Serve Madame Lisle's dinner at once, if
you please. She has not been well, and I
shall remain with her for some time."

Voila du nouveau V said Delphine to
herself, as she ran quickly down the stairs
to carry the news to the lodge of the concierge.
"So mademoiselle has contrived to
hunt up a friend. She is not, perhaps, so
near the bottom of the bag as we thought.

No matter ; it is not a friend in petticoats
who will keep her from arriving there, and
those of the other kind do not grow on the
bushes."

For all the dread and pain that were in
her heart, there was something welcome
and soothing to Helen in the quiet and
motherly way in which Madame Morrison
treated her ; in the pleasant familiarity and
the little tone of kindly direction so entirely
novel to her; in the being bidden to eat,
and encouraged with friendly, unobtrusive
words. An unfamiliar warmth arose about
her heart ; old, forgotten visions of the time
when she used to think about her own young
mother, dead so long, came back to her
with an almost overpowering sweetness.
She liked the sense of lassitude and weakness
to which she owed this wonderful little
bit of blue in her clouded sky, and she
cheered up, and talked to her new friend
about Jane, and the old school-time at the
Hill House, with animation that revived

her beauty, and revealed it to her hearer.

Madame Morrison was in no hurry to
leave her. She would see her comfortably
settled for the night, she said, and she sat
by her bedside for a long time. The kind,
judicious woman carried her point. She
remained with Helen until she had received
her entire confidence, until she was
thoroughly satisfied of her innocence and
the truth of her story ; but when, at last,.
she left her, promising to see her again on
the morrow, it was with the conviction that
Mr. Frank Lisle was an unprincipled scoundrel,
who had never intended to marry her.
She was convinced that he had either got
into some scrape, immediately after the unaccountable
but providential departure that
had preserved the unsuspecting girl from
the fate he had prepared for her, or that he
had found metal more attractive, and deliberately
forsaken her,

Madame Morrison had an exceedingly
bad opinion of men in general ; indeed,

VOL. II. K

there was only one man in the world whom
she regarded as an exception. That favoured
individual was her own husband. Helen's
story was a fresh confirmation of the views
that daily acquired strength and distinctness.
This Frank Lisle was a very choice
specimen of scoundrelism. He was not dead
not he. There would have been inquiries
in that case, and his latest proceedings in
Paris would have been easily traced by the
police. He had changed his mind for some
reason, it little mattered what, and forsaken
the girl, most happily for her.

Madame Morrison informed her husband
and Jane of all that had passed between
herself and Helen, and gave expression to
her conviction respecting Frank Lisle in very
plain terms, concluding with this characteristic
remark :

If I could believe in such a being as a
kind-hearted surgeon, which I can't, I
should say that I feel like a kind-hearted
surgeon who has got through the consultation,

and fixed the operation for the next
day. To-morrow, my dears, I am going to
tell this poor thing the truth, and make her
safety sure."

k2

CHAPTER VII.

A DESPERATE WRENCH.

"TTTHEN, on the following day, Madame
" Morrison saw Helen, she found her
looking very different from the weak and
woe-begone creature who had appealed so
successfully to her kind heart. With the
buoyancy of youth to aid the blessed sense
that she was no longer desolate and forsaken,
Helen had recovered hope. Since
she had looked into the faces that were full
of concern for her, the " lost-child like"
feeling,, as she had defined it, was gone.
Frank had not returned, and she knew no
more about him than she had known yesterday

; but she was no longer alone ; she was
no longer at the mercy of the two women
whom she regarded with dread and aversion,
which were, perhaps, not reasonable,
but which she could not surmount. She
might think more profoundly than ever of
her great trouble now, since she needed not
to think so anxiously about herself.

There was still a great deal of the child
about Helen, notwithstanding the withering
blight that had fallen upon her girlhood ;
she placed her hand unhesitatingly in the
kind hand held out to her, and she slept
that night, after Madame Morrison had
tended her with motherly solicitude, as a
child, who had been frightened in the cold
and dark, might have slept in a well warmed
and lighted room.

Delphine was very curious about the
English lady who had brought madame
home at so unusual an hour; she did not
know that madame had intended to make a
visit, and dinner had been prepared uselessly.

She had, indeed, been uneasy about
madame. Helen, acting on a hint from
Jane, gave Delphine no satisfaction ; and
that astute young woman scented danger to
her own and her mother's interests, from
the appearance on the scene of a person of
the indubitable respectability and the authoritative
air of Madame Morrison. What
if they were altogether wrong, and there
really was a marriage, and this lady was a
relative of the families on either side ?

"She called her l my dear,' I can tell
you," said Delphine to her mother, " and
those English do not say that to all the
world. And she is coming tomorrow,
early too."

u You will hear something then," said the
mother.

I think so, indeed," said the daughter.

But Delphine reckoned without Madame
Morrison, who, with her first look at her
handsome, insolent face, had distrusted her.
And she was defeated by that lady's coolly

dismissing her, and entering Helen's room
unannounced. Of course the resource of
listening at the door remained ; but Madame
Morrison was too much for her there also.
She set the door of the bed-room, which
opened into the little salon, wide open, and
shut the opposite door that opened into the
vestibule.

Delphine might listen there as long as
she liked, she would be none the wiser.

"You are a good girl to have done what
I told you, and I am glad to see you looking
so much better this morning," said
Madame Morrison, as she took a seat by the
side of Helen's bed, and laid her hand
gently on her head. "You are quite yourself
again. No headache ?"

11 1 am perfectly well ; and, oh, it is so
kind of you to come to me."

"But you would rather have seen
Jane! That is natural, but T. have much
to say to you that Jane could not say, and
you shall have her with you by-and-by.

And now, my dear, for we have no time to
lose, tell me, have you thought about what
you are going to do ?"

I am always thinking about that ; but
I cannot come to any decision." The frightened
look came into her face again, and
tears rushed to her eyes. " Oh, Madame
Morrison, what is to become of me ?"

Nothing evil, be sure of that. You are
perfectly safe from harm, if you only will
to be safe. My husband and I will protect
you, and take care of you, if you will allow
us to do so ; no misfortune can befall you
unless it be of your own making."

I don't understand you ; I know that all
you are saying is good and kind, and I feel
sheltered and protected by the mere sight
of you ; but I don't know what you mean
by misfortune of my own making. I have
done very wrong, I am afraid, to call myself
Madame Lisle, and to say that I am married.
It was to have been for a week only.
I know now, by all I have suffered, by the

shame and the misery, what a falsehood for
an hour, or a moment, is ; but Jane and you
will forgive me, will you not?"

Indeed we will, and do," said Madame
Morrison, whose heart beat painfully as the
tearful, child-like, grey eyes gazed at her
pleadingly with a dreadful look of wistful
innocence ; " but I must make you understand
me, however great the pain I shall
have to give you ; and to do so I must tell
you your own story, not as you fancy it
to be, but as it is in hard fact, and as the
world would read and judge it. You are
the dupe  you have had a frightfully
narrow escape of being the victim  of a
villain."

"Frank ?" exclaimed Helen, starting up
wildly.

Yes." Madame Morrison laid her
gently back on the pillow, and held one of
her hands tightly. " 1 must say that word.
You cannot imagine the degradation and
misery of the fate which he destined for

you when he took you away, with a devilish
duplicity and cunning, from your only
protector, the friend to whom your dead
father had confided you, and isolated you
from all help and rescue."

"No, no; it was not so. I have told
you we were to have been married in a
week !"

He told you so, and you believed him,
because he had made you love him and
trust him, and because you knew nothing
of the world or of real life at all. How
should you know that no man places the
woman he means to marry in a position of
disadvantage before the world, or lowers
her in his own or her own respect?
How should you know that his sympathy
with your unhappiness was a device to lead
you into the profound est misery, and his-proposal
to rescue you from an uncongenial
home was a lure to hopeless and irremediable
ruin ? If he had been honest in either,
he would have gone boldly to your protectors,

told them how he had met you by
an accident, and what had come of it,
an d "

It was on account of his friend," said
Helen, in feeble, terrified protest ; for were
not her fears, her voiceless, half formed
fears finding utterance by the mouth of this
good and sensible woman ? Her stricken
heart quailed under the terrible verification
; but she tried to make a little fight
still.

His friend ?" repeated Madame Morrison,
indignantly. " His friend? My child,
no man of honour lets the possible interest
or convenience of a friend outweigh the
honour, the good name, the safety of his
future wife ; and the friend who would
expect or wish him to do so must be a poltroon.
Besides, what do you know about
himself? Who is he ? What is he ?"

He is a painter."

He told you so, but what evidence
have you that it is true ? Did

you ever see a picture of his painting ? Is
there one here ? He is much more likely
to be a mere dissolute idler, unhappily
cursed with the means of gratifying his
passions and his vices, and he probably
assumed the character of an artist to make
himself more interesting in your innocent
eyes."

He said we should not be rich," faltered
Helen, "and it was on business he went
away. If he had had a fortune, and could
do as he liked, why should he have left
me?"

This pertinent remark commended itself
to the good sense of Madame Morrison.

"You are right," she said. "He is nota
rich man, and he may be what he assumes
to be. Did he never tell you anything
more distinct about his affairs ?"

He said he could place me here, and
arrange about our marriage, because he
had had a stroke of luck, and he talked
of something I did not understand  of the

veine ' and the l divine ' ; that was
all."

A gambler ! That is the explanation, ,r
thought Madame Morrison. " Bat it is useless
to tell her so ; she would not understand
the deadly meaning of the word."
Then she continued : " Only the innocent
child you are, could have been tricked with
so weak a fable about himself and his friend,
as that which this bad man invented. Only
a heartless villain could have tempted and
deceived you through your sacred love and
reverence for your dead father. Well he
knew the chord to strike, and with a remorseless
hand he brought out that sweet
music of memory and piety to be your
death-dirge. My dear, it is written, 'Thou
shalt not seethe the kid in the mother's
milk,' but the tender mercies of the wicked
are cruel, and you have fallen into the
hands of the wicked. How were you to
know, supposing he had returned at the
appointed time, and chosen, for the sake of

still deluding you for a little longer, to go
through some form of marriage with you,
whether it would have any meaning or
value? How were you to establish any
claim upon him ?"

He loved me  he loved me !" said
Helen, amid her sobs.

Ay, poor child, with the evil love of a
false, wicked, and selfish man who, in
reality, loves himself only, and who would
leave you, and as many like you as might
take his fancy, to remorse, and shame, and
misery, and, it might be, to eternal death,
without a pang of the conscience that his
vices have killed within him. How should
you know what love of that accursed kind
means ?"

Oh, don't, don't !!' said poor Helen. " I
thought papa had sent him to me."

"Heaven forgive him!" Madame Morrison
wiped the tears from Helen's cheeks 
they were pale enough now  and kissed

her fervently. "He has an awful sin to
answer for, wherever he may be."

Do you think he is dead ?" asked Helen,
faintly.

"No, I do not. There would be some
record found, there would be some clue
that would direct inquiry in this direction,
if he were dead. I do not pretend to be
able to make any attempt at solving the
problem of his absence and his silence ; but
there is no doubt that it is nothing short of
a miraculous interposition in your favour.
It has saved you from sin, and shame, and
misery. You have suffered much, and there
is still much for you to suffer ; but none of
these things. The Divine mercy has been
stronger than the enemy. And now, my
child, you must respond to this action of
Providence ; you must recognize the full
truth, and do your own part towards completing
your own rescue."

"What must I do?" asked Helen,

shrinking as if from an impending blow.
You must leave this place at once."
Leave this place ! And not see him if
he comes back  you said you do not believe

that he is dead  and not know "

Yes, my poor child, even so."
Oh, I could not, I could not ! Frank I
Frank !"

That cry wrung the heart of the listener.
She had compared her task, not inaptly, with
that of the surgeon who has to save his
patient's life at the cost of inflicting terrible
pain, and on whose nerve and steadiness
the result depends. There was a strong
pull upon her nerve and steadiness now.

Don't think that I do not know what
you suffer, and that I do not feel for you ;
but this must be, my dear. This wicked
man has first deceived and then forsaken
you, for, even though circumstances had rendered
his return impossible, nothing should
have prevented his writing to you. You
must place yourself beyond his reach. You

understand his conduct now, you are no
longer blind, but see ; you could not plead
ignorance or innocence as an excuse for
wrong-doing now ; you have your position
to redeem, your good name to save, and,
what is of far more real importance, your
duty to do."

"What shall I do? Oh, what shall I
do?"

I will tell you, and Jane and I will help
you to do what is right. You must come
home with me. You remember that Jane
asked you to do so, before the brighter prospect
of the protection of Mr. and Mrs.
Townley Gore offered itself."

I was so miserable with them, Madame
Morrison, I could not bear it, and so uncared
for."

Had you not been miserable and uncared
for, no such design as this wicked
man's could have been carried out. You
need not assure me on that point. Let me
go on. The same offer that I made to you

VOL. IT. L

then, I now renew ; you shall live with us as
long as you like, and either learn my business
or I will endeavour to find you suitable
employment. There need be no hurry
about that; you will need long rest and
good care to recover from this painful episode
in your life, and it will be my good
niece's greatest happiness to have you with
her. Her love of you has never failed or
faltered."

"I know that. I saw it in her face before
I fainted. But," and here, in spite of
Madame Morrison's soothing hand, Helen
sat up, and pushed her hair feverishly off
her forehead, " suppose I did go home with
you, and that Frank came back, and that it
had not been so bad after all ? Suppose he
had really meant what he said, and that he
could explain, what should I do then ?"

Madame Morrison did not make an immediate
reply ; perhaps she found it difficult
to repress a movement of impatience at
the girl's obstinacy and folly ; but she remembered

" the precious ointment that
breaks not the head," and she applied it
with a skilful touch.

My dear," she said, " what you should
then do is this. You should give Mr. Lisle
the opportunity of proving that he had
been only thoughtless and imprudent, but
not wicked in his conduct to you, by obliging
him to take, in that case, the course
which he ought to have taken at first. You
should give him no clue by which to find
you, unless by making application to the
protectors of whom he has deprived
you."

kf But they believe that I am with Jane."

Indeed ! Was that another device of
this honest gentleman's ?"

Helen hung her head, shame-faced. She
was beginning to see it all now. She was
beginning to be amazed at her own blindness
and weakness.

It was to be a deception only for a few
days."

i2

Does he know who Jane is, and where
she lives ?"

I don't know ; I don't remember. It
was all so hurried ; I did tell him, I think,
when Mrs. Townley Gore refused to allow
me to visit Jane ; but I could not say positively.
Why do you ask ?"

Because he must not see you while you
are with me, no matter how good a story
he may make out for himself. The facts in
this case are among the most stubborn
within my knowledge, and I shall deal
with the facts. If he should return, and
wish to find you, he will know that he can
do so by addressing himself to Mr. Townley
Gore, and the fiction about his friend will
soon disappear before any honest intention,
or the worthy love of you, if such exists in
him. If there's a spark of good in him, if
there's any reasonable explanation to be
given of his conduct, he will not be afraid
to confront the woman whose unkindness
put you in his power, and to ask her what

has become of you ? Let her tell him ; and
let him seek you then. You will be safe,
and beyond his reach, in the sense of your
ruin and dishonour; if you can trust him,
there will be none to forbid you. But you
must see, my dear child, that there is no
other way by which we can undo the wrong
that he has done you, and prove that you
have judged him more correctly than I."

I see it. I thank you. I will obey
you."

Madame Morrison had to steel herself
against the heart-broken tone in the young
voice ; the surgeon's work was almost done.

Now, tell me about this woman who
waits on you, and about your money
matters."

Helen told her what arrangements had
been made, and Madame Morrison investigated
the condition of the money-drawer.

Fifty francs between her and destitution,"
she said to herself. " Is this all the
money you have anywhere?"

I have five francs in my purse, but the
last bills are not paid, and they will come to
more than there is."

I will see to all that. Do not trouble
yourself on that score. Up to what date
has this apartment been paid for ?"

Helen told her.

Three weeks between her and homelessness,"
said Madame Morrison to herself.

And this girl, this Delphine, are her
wages paid ?"

"I do not know; I think they must be,
or she would have demanded them, for she
knows my money is nearly gone."

"That accounts for her insolence. What
else does she know ?"

Helen's face flushed deeply as she replied
by telling Madame Morrison that Delphine
had recognised her, and that she feared
she did not believe her to be Madame Lisle.

"This woman is dangerous," said Madame
Morrison, after listening attentively
to Helen's account of the matter, and asking

her several questions; "she nest know
nothing more about you. Can you let me
see the accounts with which these people
have furnished you ? They are dishonest,
I conclude?"

Yes, they are," said Helen, humbly and
resignedly. She was ashamed to confess
the cowardice to which her false position
had reduced her ; but there was no need for
her to confess it ; the sympathy of Madame
Morrison was of that quality which goes to
the root of the matter. "The papers are
in the drawer."

Will you dress yourself while I look
over them, and transact a little business
with this girl and her mother, in the salon ?
And will you then come to me there? I
cannot stay much longer."

Madame Morrison gathered up the papers
and left the room. She well knew to what
agonies she was leaving her patient, but the
worst was over, the surgeon's work was
done, the healer's was to be done now.

"That will begin," thought Madame Morrison,
" with the restoration to wholesome
companionship, and a homelike life. What
wretches the poor child has encountered."

CHAPTER VIII.

CUTTING THE PAINTER.

11 Take," said Madame Morrison to her
 niece, two days after she had performed
that duty which she had likened to
a surgical operation, " I have just been
thinking that, if this poor girl keeps to her
resolution  and I believe she will  it would
be a judicious precaution to mystify those
Moreauss about where she is going to. I
sincerely hope she will never hear more of
Mr. Lisle; that would be so much the best
way in which the matter could end."

Oh ! aunt, do you think so ? She will
never get over it ; she loves him."

"She thinks she loves him, toy dear; but
she is very young, and she knows nothing
of life; and this is an affair of the fancy,
not of the heart. When she realises what
might have been her fate, she will get over
the notion that this man was her gallant deliverer
from a miserable life, and the building
will fall with the caving-in of its foundations.
If, however, her never hearing
any more of him should prove too good to
be true, the next best thing, and what we
must secure, is that he should be forced to
seek for a clue to her from Mr. Townley
Gore. Now we cannot make sure of this,
if anybody at the house at Neuilly can tell
Mr. Lisle, or any person deputed by him,
where it was she went to from that house.
Therefore these people must be carefully
misinformed 'a trompeur, irompeur et elemi,'
is fair play, you know ; though I hope
this is the only instance in which we shall
have to act on that unpleasant principle.
You will put those labels on Helen's trunks,

and give the driver audible instructions to
take you to the Gare du Nord. You must
be careful about the hour ; do not start too
early or too late for the evening mail for
England ; these people will be sharp enough
to notice it if you do, and, as they would
also be sharp enough to take the number
of the carriage, you will actually have to
drive to the station, and allow the luggage
to be taken in. Your uncle will meet you
there, and bring you and Helen and the
trunks safely away ; there will be nothing
surprising in a party of English people putting
off their journey, because one of the
young ladies is not quite well."

I understand you perfectly, aunt," said
Jane, glancing at the labels, on which was
written : " Mrs. Lisle, Passenger to Charing
Cross." " But I wonder whether Helen will
see the necessity for this? She may be
difficult to persuade that no clue should be
given ; for she must still hope."

She will consent, my dear, and that is

all we need care about, in reality. I have
explained to her that she must be properly
approached by this man, if at all, and she
will understand that it is of vital importance
to herself to have all communication with the
few people who know anything about this
episode in her life cut off. I am as anxious
for this reason as for the other, that these
precautions should be taken ; and we must
resort to them under the strange necessity
that we are placed in, to save this poor girl,
to a certain extent, against her own will.
Only think what a death's head that Delphine
might prove to her in the future, if
she knew where to find her, and what the
truth about her is ! And now I think you
know all that is to be done, and I cannot
give you any more time. My correspondence
is very heavy this morning, and the
letters are almost all such as I must answer
myself. It is a little bit of a coincidence that
one of them encloses a cheque from Mrs.
Townley Gore  I conclude this will close

her account with us  and another is an
extensive order from Miss Chevenix, whom
she introduced."

Jane did not attend to her aunt's final
remarks ; she was intent upon Helen ; her
imagination was busy with a fresh apprehension,
awakened by what Madame Morrison
had said respecting Delphine. Let the
best that could come of this sad episode
happen ; let Helen be delivered from the
thraldom of an imaginary love for an unworthy
object, and saved from the consequences
of her own ignorant imprudence;
her life must still have in it the lurking
danger of a secret, which it would be in the
power of those persons of whom Jane entertained
no good opinion to disclose. She
went about her ordinary business with her
usual diligence indeed, but with her thoughts
full of the coming hours.

Madame Morrison had not let the crass
grow under those feet of hers that were
swift to carry her in the ways of well-doing,.

and all that she had planned to do in the
matter of Helen Rhodes had been accomplished.
She had seen the landlord  a
miserly old person, who wore gaiters and
a greasy skull-cap, kept white mice in a
cage, and lived in the topmost storey of one
of his own houses  and ascertained that the
rent of Helen's apartment had been paid for
three months in advance, as the concierge
had stated. She had informed him that
the apartment would be immediately vacated
by Madame Lisle, and the astute old gentleman
at once proposed to place it en location,
thereby getting the chance of a month's
rent twice over ; but Madame Morrison informed
him that she had no power to make
such an arrangement ; Mr. Lisle might return
any moment and require his domicile.

But not the little lady ! Hein ! Aha,
I see !" said the impertinent old wretch.
Madame Morrison then addressed herself
to the settlement of Helen's accounts, and
found, as she expected, that the Moreau

family had combined to cheat her in everyone
of the mean and small ways that were
within their power. In this instance also
she was helpless. And she even thought it
wiser, under the circumstances, not to excite
the anger of the pitiful delinquents, who
were, as she readily discerned, full of curiosity.
It was not until she had investigated
every claim, and satisfied every demand,
that Madame Morrison made known
the impending departure of Madame Lisle.
Then she directed Delphine to pack all her
mistress's clothes and other property, to be
ready for removal on the following day.
By this time Delphine had been driven to
the last point of exasperation by the cool
authoritativeness of Madame Morrison, and
the gentle, melancholy silence of Helen,
and her customary discretion forsook her.

Am I not to accompany madame ?" she
asked, with flashing eyes. " I was engaged
by monsieur, and it is my right."

You were paid by monsieur, I believe,"

replied Madame Morrison, calmly, " and
you have received a month's wages which
you will not have to earn. Madame Lisle
has no further occasion for your services."

She has not told me so," said Delphine,
insolently, " and I have no orders to take
from madam e, whom I do not know."

"Madame Lisle will give you her own
orders," said Madame Morrison, w T with impassiveness
that drove Delphine frantic.

I shall then be free, and not obliged to
await here the return of monsieur? For
the rest, I do not expect him."

You know on what terms M. Lisle engaged
you," said Madame Morrison, " and
the rest is entirely your own affair. You
will have the goodness not to intrude it
upon me."

With this, she left Delphine to her rage
and her suspicions, and troubled herself no
more about her, except that the little scene
suggested the final precautions which she
impressed upon her niece. For to Jane

had fallen the task of removing Helen from
the place where she had tasted of the joys
of her fool's paradise ; where the first terrible
knowledge and bitter experience of the
meaning of life had come to her ; where her
girlhood had fled away into the background
of memory, and she had become a woman,
with the full capacity of womanhood for
suffering, while much of the unreason of
childhood abode with her still.

With true consideration and tact, Madame
Morrison decided that this would be best
done by Jane. The pain of the final severance
would be less to Helen, and she would
be more unrestrained. Helen had consented
to all that the disinterestedness and clear-sighted
kindness of her friend had proposed,
and now the time was come.

You will have to control yourself, my
dear, with very great care," Madame Morrison
had said on parting with Helen the day
before, " because, though we shall not say
so to these people, it is well they should be

VOL. II. M

left to suppose that you are acting on instructions
from Mr. Lisle."

a I will do all you tell me," Helen had
said, in the tone of humility and gratitude
that was so touching to Madame Morrison ;
4 'but Delphine will never believe that. She
knows me too well, and she has watched
me too closely."

Helen was perfectly right in this forecast.
Delphine did not in the least believe in the
implied version of the proceedings which
took herself and her mother so much
aback.

When Helen locked the door of her bedroom,
and sat for hours writing, or trying
to write, and crying, with her face laid on
her extended arms, in many forlorn intervals
of that agonizing time, Delphine was
perfectly aware of the nature of her occupation,
and she interpreted the whole situation
with a surprisingly near approximation
to the truth, considering how limited washer

actual information, and yet with a
characteristic perversion of motives.

These English people have decided her
to break with her lover," she said to herself.
"They are rich, and they have, perhaps,
found a match for her. So much the
better. She is stupid  ah, mon Dieu ! how
stupid she is !  and, even if he did come
back to her, it would not be for long. I
hope he will come back, and that I shall
see him, for I want to be quite sure that he
is the monsieur of the Louvre. And where
are they taking her to ? That I shall easily
find out. This stiff English lady, and the
cold, ugly miss, who never looks at one, they
are a triste exchange for a lover, even if he
does play some tricks and keep one waiting
for a long time. My faith ! if she was not
so stupid, she would not be persuaded by
them."

Then Delphine, obeying Madame Morrison's
directions  which Helen had backed

m 2

in a timid, hesitating way which inspired
her attendant with the utmost contempt 
while she arranged Helen's small wardrobe
for packing, speculated upon what reward
she might receive for her faithful maintenance
of the secret that existed between
herself and her young mistress. It was
probably of but little consequence now.
These English people, no doubt, knew about
those other English people who had lived
in the Avenue du Bois de Boulogne ; but
still Delphine had kept the secret, and
'mademoiselle" owed her something for
that. On the whole, she had but a slender
expectation that her discretion would be
rewarded, for she knew well how small
were Helen's possessions, and her own
pilfering among these had not been inconsiderable.


Supposing Helen were to give her a
ring ? To be sure, she could not wear it,
but she might sell it, or exchange it for one
that would fit a finger of her large, brown,

dexterous hands. There was that pin with
the glittering green wreath round the handsome
head. Delphine coveted it extremely,
but she did not hope for it. She had not
failed to observe that Helen set great store
by this pretty ornament, wearing it constantly,
with all changes of her dress, and
laying it on the table by her side at night.
The pin was not among the articles which
Helen silently collected and placed in the
little salon, where two boxes stood ready to
receive all her worldly goods. No doubt
she intended to wear it in the simple dress
she had selected for her journey. Helen
was very silent ; she took no notice of Delphine's
attempts to draw her into conversation
; she did not seem to be aware that
two or three times, with apparent inadvertence,
but real impertinence, and as a reminder,
Delphine addressed her as " mademoiselle."


She moved about, when her task of
writing" was completed, pale and abstracted,

her brows knit, and her eyelids heavy with
the weight of tears.

If it was a joyful journey to meet the
husband," said Madame Moreau to her
daughter, "she would not have eyes all red
and puffed like that. I think, my daughter,
there is no husband in the case, and she is
just paid oiF."

"No, no," said Delphine, "those English
people take her away. If it had been the
doing of the monsieur, he would have given
up the apartment. We shall see more of it
yet."

The time was drawing very near ; a note
from Jane had warned Helen to expect herat.
a certain hour, and Delphine had not
failed to notice that the paper was carefully
placed in Helen's pockets so soon as she
had read its contents. The rooms had the
bare and disorderly look of a departure ;
the inventory had been duly taken ; nothing
but the closing of Helen's boxes remained

to be done, when the event for which Delphine
was waiting took place.

Helen called to her to bring the blue
velvet bonbon-box (that in which Frank
had placed his letter of welcome) to her
bed-room, and Delphine saw that a large
packet of letters, securely tied and sealed,
lay on the table before her. She placed
the packet in the box, locked it, and desired
Delphine to place it in the largest of
her trunks, to close both, and bring her the
keys.

When Delphine returned, Helen was
standing in the middle of the pretty little
room, with the intent expression of one who
is taking a consciously last look at a familiar
scene.

Put down the keys and come here,"
said Helen.

Delphine obeyed.

"You have kept the promise you made
me," said her young mistress, " and I thank

you. Perhaps I shall never see you again,
Delphine, and I should like you to have
kind thoughts of me. If I have ever been
troublesome to you, it has been because I
was not happy."

I hope madame is going to be very
happy now' said Delphine, who, being like
all other human beings, not altogether bad,
was suddenly touched by the extreme gentleness
and sweetness of the girl's speech
and manner.

I do not know. I want you to wear
these  I know you like them  for my
sake."

She opened her hand and displayed to
Delphine's enraptured eyes a pair of gold
earrings, very prettily worked, which she
had constantly worn, but which Delphine
had never thought of for a moment as a
fish of a kind that could possibly come to
her net. A flush of unutterable delight
spread over the French girl's dark, handsome
face, and she said, with perfect sincerity,

as she accepted the gift, that she had
no words in which to thank madame ; that
she would never forget her; and that, if at
any time she could serve her, she would be
happy to prove her devotion.

There was a strong movement of remorse
in Delphine's heart at that moment ; it went
at least so far as to make her wish that her
mother had not fleeced the unsuspecting
young lady quite so mercilessly ; and to
have moved her to even vicarious penitence
was something. But Helen knew nothing
of all this, and with a few more gentle
words she dismissed Delphine for the moment.
All was ready, and with the anguish
of her resolution and her action  and she
could hardly believe in them even now
there was mingled an irresistible sense of
relief.

A few minutes later Jane arrived, and in
her face Helen read a warning to be cautious
and composed.

The trunks were taken down and placed

on the carriage, and Helen passed out of
the door of the pretty little "home" that
had witnessed such terrible pages in her life-history
with a pale, fixed face, but she shed
no tears. She felt as though she had no
more tears to shed ; as though they had all
been wept over the poor little letter that
was lying in the drawer of the small table
in the salon  the drawer that had held the
"slice of their fortune," hers and Frank's,
in the time of her day-dream.

Madame Morrison's prevision was justified.
Moved, perhaps, by no more defined
impulse than that of curiosity, the Moreauss
had bethought themselves of taking the
number of the carriage that was waiting for
Helen, and before she appeared that number
was inscribed on a bit of paper, and put
safely away The man and woman were all
civility, as the former accepted the gratuity
with which Jane accompanied her parting
injunctions. These were that Moreau should
hand to Mr. Lisle, or anyone representing

him, the small sealed packet that she confided
to his charge (it contained the key of
the table-drawer), and which would be applied
for by herself on the day on which
Mr. Lisle' s tenancy of the apartment was to
come to a termination, in the event of Mr.
Lisle's making no appearance either in
person or deputy.

The landlord was slinking about the door
as Jane and Helen got into the carriage,
and, little as there was in his appearance to
inspire confidence, they felt it was as well
that he had overheard their commission to
the concierge. Helen spoke not a word,
and pulled her veil over her face as Jane
gave the order : " a la gave du nord"

CHAPTER IX.

Helen's letter.

*- II Madame LISLE ?"

-L" The question was asked by a person
who had stood for a moment irresolute at
the open door of the lodge of the concierge
in the house at Neuilly. Madame Moreau,
busy with her needle at a little round table
in the closely-draped window, had not
looked up until a tap upon the glass door
attracted her attention. The question followed
immediately on the tap, and instead
of replying to it by the usual mechanical
intimation of the floor on which the apartment
of the individual asked for was situated,
she rose, came to the door, where she

could distinctly see the questioner, and
answered :

She is no longer here."

No longer here ! Where is she,
then r

I do not know."

Madame Moreau was looking very sharply
at the speaker, with a puzzled expression
of countenance, as if she were not quite sure
of his identity, and this seemed to irritate,
as much as the words she had just spoken
confounded him. He asked her testily
what she was staring at, adding that she
must be perfectly aware that he was Monsieur
Lisle.

Madame Moreau's servile manner was
adopted on the spot. She regretted infinitely,
but the fact was that Monsieur

4 'Never mind about me," said Mr. Lisle,
stepping over the threshold and taking a
seat uninvited, very much with the air of
one unable to stand ; " that is of no consequence.
Tell me about Madame Lisle.

When did she leave this ? When does she
return ?"

Madame Moreau's dull face was not so
dull but that Mr. Lisle could read in it the
unfeigned and exceeding surprise with
which these queries inspired her. She had
almost had time to forget the profitable
client whom it had been so easy to cheat,
and whose departure had been accomplished
in so rapid a manner, and with so little
satisfaction to the curiosity of herself, her
husband, and Delphine. But here was a
savoury ailment supplied to dormant
curiosity : the husband or the lover, whichever
he might be, knowing nothing about
the lady, coming there to ask for her 
there was no doubt now that Delphine was
in the right ; the English people had taken
Madame Lisle away, she had not been
paid off." Madame Moreau had very
little to tell. Madame Lisle left the house
between two and three weeks ago, but she
lead said nothing at all about coming back ;

indeed she had hardly spoken to Madame
Moreau at all ; it was the other lady who
gave the orders.

"The other lady? What other lady? Of
whom are you speaking?"

Does not monsieur know ? An English
lady, very dry in her manner, very short of
speech. She came back with madame, one
Sunday that madame had been out for a longtime,
and two days after it made known
that madame was going away to join monsieur.
They all thought so, until the last."

And why did you think otherwise
then ?" asked Mr. Lisle, quickly.

Because the young lady, the other, left
a little packet for monsieur, and that had
not the air as if she expected to see him
herself."

A little packet for me ! Where is it?
Let me have it at once."

Very sorry, monsieur, but I cannot.
It was confided to the care of Moreau, the
most exact of men, and he locked it up in

the bureau which monsieur sees there in
the corner. He is gone out for the moment,
and has the key on him. But he will return
immediately, and if monsieur chooses
to go up to the apartment I can accompany
him. Monsieur will find everything in good
order ; the windows are opened every day. ,r

"No, thank you ; I will wait here for
your husband's return, if you will allow me.
In the meantime, tell me, as exactly and
as fully as you can, all about the departure
of Madame Lisle."

Putting a strong constraint upon himself,
patiently following the confused and tautological
narrative of Madame Moreau, and
adding to it such fragments of knowledge
as he possessed, Mr. Lisle arrived at a conclusion
not very far removed from the truth.
Helen had broken her promise to him ;
under the pressure of suspense and loneliness
she had gone to her friend  he could
not recall the name now, but it would be
very easy to ascertain it  and imparted the

circumstances to her. Her friend. had taken
Helen away, with her free will, of course ;
it would not have been possible otherwise ;
and, with this reflection, angry resentment
replaced the first shock of disconcerted surprise
with which he had heard of Helen's
departure.

Then a word of Madame Moreau's struck
him ; she was alluding to Helen's illness.
He questioned her, and learned that she
had been ill at the house of the English
lad 7 . Madame Moreau did not know where
the English lady lived, nor who the younger
lady was, the one who took Madame Lisle
away with her  to London, she supposed.

"To London !" said Mr. Lisle, with evident
discomposure. " How do you know ?"

11 It was written on the trunks," said
Madame Moreau ; " and the other lady told
the cocher to drive to the Gare du Nord."

This intelligence was bewildering to Mr.
Lisle. Helen's friend certainly lived in
Paris ; with what intent could she then have

VOL. II, N

taken her to London ? Could it have
been some one else who had come to her
aid ? Mrs. Townley Gore herself, by any
wonderful chance ? Or had this meddlesome
friend persuaded Helen to go to
London with her, and replace herself under
care of her former protectors?

As these alternative suppositions presented
themselves to the mind of Mr.
Lisle, he became exceedingly red and uncomfortable.


In either of the two cases he would
find himself in a very unpleasant position,
one considerably worse than that which he
had expected to have to face on his return
to Paris, after his long and unexplained
absence.

He got up and walked about, in the
narrow space of the lodge of the concierge,
wholly regardless of the suspicious appearance
of such agitation on his part, combined
with his ignorance of the actions of
the lady whom he called his wife.

"Yes, there's no doubt about it; she
said the Gare du Nord," repeated Madame
Moreau, and then she added: "But, hold,
here is Moreau himself, he will tell monsieur
the same."

Moreau entered the lodge, and saluted
Mr. Lisle, but he, too, looked at him with
something of uncertainty, which seemed
strangely irritating to that gentleman.

Pardon, but it is that monsieur "

Mr. Lisle interrupted Moreau just as he
had interrupted Moreau's wife.

"Yes, yes, never mind. You have a
packet for me. Where is it ?"

Moreau exchanged looks with his wife ;
but a quick nod from her made him understand
that he was to ask no questions, and
he proceeded at once to search his pockets
for the key of the bureau.

That is the packet the lady left for
monsieur," he said, handing the little
parcel to Mr. Lisle, who instantly broke
the seal, and found a key enclosed in a

n2

small pasteboard tube that had once contained
a bottle of homoeopathic medicine.
A little slip of paper, bearing the words,
Money-drawer," in Helen's writing, was
attached to the key.

The concierge and his wife kept silence
while Mr. Lisle looked at the key, and
examined the paper in which it had been
wrapped, but on which he found nothing
written. Presently he said :

u If you will come and open the door, I
will go up now, if you please," and he led
the way up the general staircase.

In a few minutes Madame Moreau came
down, and related to her husband all that
had passed during his absence. They
laughed, and shrugged their shoulders, and
wondered what monsieur would find above
there  who could have thought there was
only a key in the little packet ? and agreed
that it was a droll thing, and these were
droll people, though not bad to have to do
with, and that it was droll in particular to

discover that it was not monsieur, after all,
but madame who had lc taken the key of the
fields."

When Mr. Lisle found himself alone in
the little apartment, he looked about him
with a shrinking uncertain glance. Were
there ghosts in the place, that might lookout
at him in broad daylight from the stiff
folds of the window-hangings, or the smooth
surface of the mirrors that had reflected
Helen's face through the long hours of her
unrelieved suspense? He made a hasty
inspection of the empty rooms, and then, returning
to the salon, flung himself wearily
into a fauteuil, and clasping his hands behind
his head, with a deep impatient sigh
fell a- thinking.

There was something strange about Mr.
Lisle's way of taking the utterly unexpected
intelligence of Helen's departure. It did
not denote either violent grief, anger, disappointment,
or anxiety. It was rather the
attitude of a great and pressing perplexity ;

there was neither the anguish of love nor
that of fear in it. With what feelings, what
thoughts, what intentions, had he returned
to Paris ? It was clear that he had expected
to find Helen in the place where he had
left her, but that was the only thing that
was clear in the matter. And now, whatever
might have been his purpose or his
mood, the one was put to the rout, and the
other was changed, by an event unforeseen
that he was entirely at a loss how to take it,
and there was over him a strange incapacity,
both physical and mental, to calculate and
avert its consequences. Even as he sat
there thinking, he dozed off to sleep, and
awoke presently, with a start, to remember
the key. He had left it, with his hat, in the
vestibule, and he staggered as he rose to go
for it.

He looked about for the little writing-table,
unlocked and pulled out the drawer.
At the back of it lay a sealed packet, containing
the pocket-book which he had placed

there. In the pocket-book was a letter,
and the pin with the head of Apollo, encircled
with laurel, Frank Lisle's first gift to
Helen Rhodes, also the mock wedding-ring,
his second.

If you ever come back to enquire what
has become of me," Helen had written 
"for they tell me I need not fear that
you are dead  you will be glad to know
that I am with my good friend. I did
not disobey you by going to her, though
my distress was very great, and I was
very lonely ; she saw me accidentally, and
she would not leave me. It is her good
aunt, who offered me a home when my
father died, that has made me understand
the wrong thing I have done, and has
enabled me to undo it, so far as any wrong
thing can be undone in this world. Perhaps
it was because you also did not know
how wrong it was, and have found it out,
that you have stayed away, meaning me to
learn it by this means ; if so, it is well,

though it has made fine suffer a great deal,

and I shall yet be able to thank you, I

know now that you could never respect

me, and I should dishonour my father's

name if I did not go away at once. I

shall be safe, and no one will be troubled

about me. I have done so wrong, though

I did not know it, that I do not deserve

ever to be happy. Where I shall be placed,

or what will be my occupation, I do not

know; but there will be no need for

you to reproach, or disquiet yourself

on account of me. You must try and

forgive me for being so ignorant and

so selfish ; for I was both when I led you

to pity me so much, that you did what was

wrong for my sake. I am sure it was for

my sake, and you must forgive me now

and forget me. I am not helpless and

deserted, though I am very, very miserable.

But that is my own fault. I could not let

my friends help me, as they will do,

without telling them everything ; and so I

have told them that it might injure your
friend, and would certainly displease you,
to have your name mentioned to Mr. and
Mrs. Townley Gore. I have their promise
that it never shall be mentioned. My
secret and yours will be faithfully kept ;
and if Mr. Townley Gore ever makes any
enquiry for me, he will be told that I amin
my friends' charge. The false pretext,
for which she has forgiven me, will be the
truth. You see, there is no reason why
you should ever take any thought for me.
I will not write more, for this is all that I
am bound to say, and I might write forever
without saying what there is in my
heart. Only one thing more I must say.
Even if you have not acted from the
motive I have imagined  indeed, no matter
what the cause of your conduct may be  I
would not condemn you, if I could be
made to know it. The fault was all mine
all mine. I trust the penalty may be."
Mr. Lisle read this letter through twice

over, and then sat for some time thinking
over it. This, then, was the explanation.
These officious women had enlightened the
girl's mind, to a certain extent at any rate,
having jumped to the conclusion that his
motives and intentions were of the worst
kind, as your very pious people are apt todo,
when the children of wrath are in
question. And she had not indeed taken
in all their meaning  her letter made that
plain  but perceived the truth sufficiently
to be rescued from the danger, while still
investing him with a remnant of the halo
of her pretty and ingenuous fancy. Mr.
Lisle anathematised the canting insolence
of Helen's friend and her aunt, as freely as
if they had inflicted on him the grossest injustice
by their suspicions, and his motives
and intentions had been of the loftiest kind,
and as emphatically as if the action to
which those suspicions had led had not
happened to fit in with his own private

wishes and convenience at that particular
time.

He was as angry with Helen for having
been persuaded to free herself from the
snare which he had set for her, as if he
had not been in his secret soul disgusted
with his own folly, for having incurred so
much additional embarrassment at a critical
moment in his life, and inwardly conscious
of an immense relief in the knowledge that
she had escaped. But the vagaries of
pride, and the promptings of vanity, are past
enumeration, and profitless to analyse.
Both pride and vanity were in arms in the
case of Mr. Lisle, and for a while they prevailed
over the other forms of selfishness in
him. It was, seemingly, not good for him
to be strongly moved by any passion just
then, for his colour varied strangely, and
when he rose abruptly, as if under the impulse
of some stinging thought, and walked
about the room, his gait was unsteady.

Whatever the cause of his abandonment
of Helen had been, by what circumstances
determined and accompanied, absence had
deprived her of her charm for him.

He was not untouched by her letter, but
he was more angry than affected. There is
such a possibility as that of finding certain
difficulties smoothed away to the point of
mortification, though, as his wrath somewhat
abated, he derived considerable satisfaction
from the passage in her letter that
referred to Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore.

"That certainly is uncommonly lucky,"
he said to himself, framing his thoughts in
such familiar words as told of the assuagement
of his first lofty wrath. " I got a
great start when the idea occurred to me
that she might have come in person after
Helen, or that those sanctimonious meddlers
might have taken Helen back to her prison ;
but that is all safe. Indeed, it all seems
pretty safe, and, considering what a fool I
have been, I have not come off so badly."

At this point in his meditations, Mr. Lisle
seemed to have recovered his temper and
controlled his nerves ; he glanced over
Helen's letter once more, restored it, with
the pen and the ring, to the pocket-book,
which he placed in his breast-pocket, buttoned
his coat, looked at himself in a glass
with a critical air, put on his hat, and went
down the staircase swininthe door-devon
his forefinger.

Moreau had availed himself of Mr. Lisle's
visit to the long-forsaken apartment, to fetch
the landlord, ready at hand in his garret
close by, and when Mr. Lisle re-entered the
lodge of the concierge he found the miser,
in his invariable coffee-coloured suit of patched
 clothes, his dirty gaiters, and his greasy
skull-cap, on the watch for him.

To this pleasing person Mr. Lisle handed
over the key, telling him he might let the
apartment that day if he liked ; and then,
having openly bestowed upon the Moreauss
a gratuity, which the landlord eyed with a

hungry glare eloquent of his longing to
transfer it to his own pocket, was about to
depart, when he bethought himself of the
attendant whose services he had engaged
for Helen. She might tell him some things
it would be useful to know. He asked
Madame Moreau where her daughter was
and whether he might see her ; but Madame
Moreau replied that her daughter was no
longer at home. She had got a very good
place, only ten days ago, that of maid to a
very fine and fashionable lady, and was
gone to England. Hold, this was the lady's
name ; and Madame Moreau showed Mr.
Lisle a name and address, written on a card
stuck into the clock-case on the chimney-piece,
remarking, " that monsieur might be
acquainted with Mrs. Ramsden."

Mr. Lisle obligingly glanced at the card,
but he was not acquainted with the lady.

I really should not have known him,"
said Moreau, when Mr. Lisle was gone, and
the landlord had also retired, muttering

that the concerned had a fine time of it,
and that he wished he could be his own
concierge."

And I actually did not know him, fora
minute," remarked Madame Moreau.
Ah, they are a droll lot, those English ;
they don't cry out before they are hurt, no,
nor when they are hurt, neither. But, hold,
there was one thing we did not tell him 
that the young lady said she would come
when the terra is finished, in a week that
will be, to see whether he had appeared
and taken the packet."

"Yes, we ought to have told him that,
but one cannot think of everything."

On the day after these occurrences, Frank
Lisle left Paris, in the company of his friend
Frederick Lorton, who was returning to
England after a long stay abroad. The
usually high spirits of the artist were a little
dashed ; his friend, who had but recently
recovered from a severe illness, was feeble
and peevish, and although no mood, either

of his own or any other person's, could hinder
Frank from seeing beauties in landscape,
even when viewed by express train, and
watching for bits of colour as they flew past,
he felt too thoroughly anxious to be as happy
as he was under most circumstances. How
Frank Lisle's friend found himself advertised
for in the Agony Column, and learned that
the chief object of his journey was not to be
realised, but that his own position was materially
altered, has already been related.
Frank Lisle was in high delight at his
friend's good fortune, and during the remainder
of the journey indulged in much
speculation upon the future, but he derived
his chief amusement from the fact that he
was about to be presented to the once formidable
Mrs. Townley Gore, with, as he
expressed it, " her teeth drawn."

CHAPTER X.

A LITTLE DINNER.

ON DON was very hot, very dusty, and
*- much pervaded by the imposing fourgon,
and the humbler, luggage-carrying cab.

The season was over ; the Goodwood
week had come to a conclusion ; the very
latest of the garden-parties had taken place ;
the yachting arrangements were all made ;
and it only remained for the paradise of the
last three months to be declared quite too
dreadful for further endurance by its Paris
with a passe-partout.

Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore were at their
house in Kaiser Crescent ; both of them in
good health, and very well satisfied with

VOL. II. o

things in general. The gout had released
Mr. Townley Gore from its clutches, and he
had been able to enjoy the latter half of
the season, after the discreet fashion in
which it was his habit to take his pleasures.
The prospect for the autumn was an agreeable
one. It included a fortnight's yachting
with a friend, and some capital shooting
down at his brother-in-law's place in Hampshire.


The shooting at Horndean was not, indeed,
much to boast of; but Mrs. Horndean had
a miserable and accommodating neighbour,
who, not caring for sport of any kind himself,
and having no parties at Chesney
Manor during the autumn, had made the
Horndean guns free of his woods and his
stubble-fields in the time of the late proprietor
of Horndean. Mr. Warrender had
gone abroad just before the late Mr. Horn-dean's
death, and was not personally acquainted
with Mrs. Townley Gore's brother,
but he did the proper thing, as Mrs. Townley

Gore expressed it, by giving the usual
directions to his " people " at Chesney
Manor, and his own absence would make
little or no difference. Old Mr. Horndean
had 0t on better with Mr. Warrender than
with any other of his neighbours ; but he
was not much in Mr. Townley Gore's line.
Very gentleman-like, and all that  as, indeed,
it would have been odd if he were
not, for the Surrenders of Chesney were of
as old planting there as their own famous
oaks  but not country-gentlemanlike ; bookish,
" and that sort of thing," as Mr. Poker
said of " Italy," and not much liking for subjects
on which Mr. Townley Gore had a
great deal to say for himself, and liked to
say it.

Mr. Warrender was not much in Mrs.
Townley Gore's line either, for, although
he was perfectly polite on the rare occasions
of their meeting, he had never conveyed to
her the least indication that he admired, or,
indeed, that he so much as perceived her

o2

good looks ; and what could be more repellent
than such a deplorable defect of
sympathy? So far was Mrs. Townley Gore
from regretting the absence of the owner of
Chesney Manor that, in giving a young
friend, to whom she was in the habit of
talking confidentially, a sketch of her plans
and intentions for the remainder of the
year, she actually enumerated it among the
advantages of the situation.

Heat, dust, and noise were all carefully
excluded from Mrs. Townley Gore's .
The choicest flowers adorned it,
and its two occupants presented an attractive
picture. Mrs. Townley Gore was seated
close to the open door of the small conservatory
; her dress, of the lightest fabric
and most elegant composition, might, by
making believe very much, be supposed to
represent slight mourning. She was looking
remarkably well, and the last half of
the season had not told on her at all.
She "had enjoyed such peace of inind,"

she said, " and that was a great thing P
Her companion was Miss Chevenix, and
their interview was as familiar as it was
animated, for Beatrix was lying at full
length on a sofa, in her favourite attitude,
with her hands clasped at the back of her
head. Her attire was deep mourning, expressed
by an expensive combination of
rich silk, embroidered crape, and heavy jet
fringes ; and it became her well, adding to
her radiant beauty the one subtle touch of
refinement that a few very critical observers
had sometimes permitted themselves to think
it lacked. This perfectly tasteful toilette
had several little features which only a woman
would discern in detail, although men
would be aware of the completeness of the
whole effect.

Mrs. Townley had a special reason, in
addition to her interest in the young lady,
for observing Miss Chevenix on this their
first meeting since the death of Beatrix's
father. Mrs. Townley Gore was absolutely

unacquainted with the facts of her friend's
pecuniary position, and she was just the
woman to catch at once the indications
afforded by dress, and the minor modes of
personal expenditure. She knew that,
though it would not be possible to deceive
her about the value, or, at all events, the
price of a gown and its accompaniments,
other people were not so discerning, and
the small things that make the difference
between the quite first-rate, and the something
between first-rate and second-rate
might fairly be expected to escape notice.

Miss Chevenix was two minutes in her
presence before Mrs. Townley Gore said to
herself: "She is better dressed than ever.
That treatment of jet is quite new."

The observation was just ; she was only
in error in her deduction from it. And her
visitor knew what she had looked for, and
what she was thinking of, as well as she
knew it, while they were smiling at each

other, and deploring the " age " that had
elapsed since their last meeting.

Miss Chevenix was in charming spirits ;
having returned only just as everyone else
was leaving town, she was much newer to
London than Mrs. Townley Gore.

The conversation had lasted a good while,
and the old familiarity was re-established
by the time the friends had reached a point
in their discussion of plans for the autumn
which naturally led to the mention of
Horndean and its neighbourhood.

Chesney Manor adjoins Horndean," Mrs.
Townley Gore explained. "The former
people were connected with the surrenders,
and there's only a sunk fence and a
railing for half a mile or so between the
park and the Horndean shrubberies. Cheney
is twice the extent, and a far handsomer
place, and I believe the pictures are
very fine. I never saw them."

It's rather a pity the man is a bore,"

said Beatrix. "What is he? Religious,
philosophical, or philanthropical ?"

I really don't know \ I never took the
trouble to find out. He doesn't hunt ; he
doesn't shoot; he doesn't know anyone 
I mean of our world  and he has the most
absurd cut-and-dry notions about everything.
I believe he thinks the nineteenth
century no such wonderful era of the world's
history, and would have every woman cut
her hair off, wear a ' front,' a cap, and a
shawl, from her wedding-day out, and retire
from the observations of mankind."

Beatrix laughed. She was genuinely
diverted, for she perfectly understood what
it was that put the spice into Mrs. Townley
Gore's sketch of Mr. Warrender.

He is one of those objectionable people
who has a ' standard,' and is always applying
it. A bore of the first magnitude, in
fact. However, we shall not have his company,
and we shall have his coverts."

It will be quite charming ! And it is
so good of you to think of me !"

Of course I thought of you. Beatrix ;
and, when your answer was delayed, I
assure you we were quite miserable. Frederick
is immensely elated about your coming.
By-the-by, why were you so long
about making up your mind ?"

Miss Chevenix hesitated for a moment
before she replied, and a look of vexation
passed over her face ; but she said presently,
as carelessly as she could,

I could not tell exactly what I should
be able to do, until I had heard from Mrs.
Mabberley."

My dear Beatrix, I do hope you have
not put yourself in for too much restraint
and interference from Mrs. Mabberley. I
cannot quite make out your agreeing to live
with her, for I don't think you ever liked
her particularly ; and, if she is to interfere
with your going where you please, you will

find it a nuisance. Why did you agree to
live with her?" added Mrs. Townley Gore,
abruptly, and, as her hearer felt, intending
to get an answer to her question.

"What was I to do? Mrs. Mabberley
and ray father were old friends; she was
the only person who offered me any help in
that way. I have no relations, and I could
not live alone, unless I provided myself
with a sheep-dog of the most objectionable
kind. And even then it would hardly have
done. The duchess said so the other day,
for, as she remarked, I am not enough of
an heiress to do that sort of thing. I really
had not any choice. Mrs. Mabberley is
very nice to me; she does not want to interfere
in general ; it was only that I had
half promised to go to Scotland with her in
September. I delayed until 1 had her
answer, letting me off. On the whole, I

shall be very comfortable, and then "

here Miss Chevenix assumed a look of prudence,
and a tone of calculation, which were

as re-assuring to Mrs. Townley Gore as the
gown from Worth itself  "there's the letting
of my own house, you see ; four hundred
a year added to one's income is always
worth having, and I get rid of the servants."


"Ah ! yes, that explains it. And so your
house is let? Who are the people?"

"A Colonel Ramsden, his wife, and son.
I know little of them, except that they are
great travellers, friends of Mrs. Mabberley's,
and forbiddingly pious. She gave me many
cautions not to air what she obligingly
called my heathenism before them, if I met
them at her house ; and told me they were
satisfactory about the odious arrangements.
How I do hate transacting business, don't
you?"

"Not at all," said Mrs. Townley Gore,
with a serenely superior air. " I rather
like it."

But then you're so clever, while I am as
ignorant in such things as Harold Simple

pretended to be. Mrs. Mabberley took
most of it off my hands, and she got everything
she wanted done."

There's a quiet persistency about her.
I should think she could carry a point."

She called on the Ramsdenss the other
day. It was so funny, she told me. The
colonel has got papa's room, and there's a
big Bible on the table, and an illuminated
text over the door. They have the servants
in to family prayers, and go to church twice
on Sunday. I wonder what foreign curiosities
they've introduced into my room ?
More texts, I daresay, and a revolving ' remembrancer'
hung up over the looking-glass."


There was a bitterness in the ridicule
with which Miss Chevenix spoke that made
Mrs. Townley Gore uncomfortable. She,
too, wished Beatrix would not talk in this
way ; it was so unnecessary ; it was, indeed,
such bad form. Mrs. Townley Gore herself
went regularly to church at Horndean ; it

looked well in the country ; and Mr. Osborne,
the rector, was a man of very good
family. She did not even always stay away
from church in town. It was very tiresome
of Beatrix. She ought to know better;
she ought to have learned wisdom from the
Darnell affair.

Some of these thoughts also Miss Chevy
read, and, with one of her peculiar
laughs, in which there was mockery and
knowingness that spoiled their music, she
said,

"I see, you are reflecting sadly on my
free-thinking, or, rather, on its translation
into free speech. I won't do it again. And
now, tell me about your brother. Is he
well?"

"Quite well, and in town. He dines
here tomorrow, expressly to meet you."

"Anyone else?"

His friend, Mr. Lisle. It will be amusing
to see the painter studying you. He is
the oddest person, quite unconventional, but

not in the least ill-bred. Mr. Townley Gore
quotes some rusty saying about good manners
and a good heart apropos of Mr. Lisle.
He is the only person unlike other people
whom I have ever liked. You will astonish
Tiirn, Beatrix; and he will show it quite
simply, just as if you were a picture, or a
flower, or a beautiful bit of textile fabric.
And Frederick will fall in love with you at
first sight."

How do you know that ?"

There was some abruptness, but no confusion,
in Miss Chevenix's tone.

It is his way, my dear. The eternal
passions, which have lasted six weeks or so,
that Frederick has confided to me, in the
good old times, before he took to wandering,
and we quarrelled, more or less, would fill
a good many story-books. The affair that
nearly cost him Horndean, and led to the
condition I told you of in Mr. Horndean's
will, I knew nothing about, of course ; but
I believe it was the most serious, as well as

the least desirable, of them all. He is a
good deal altered in many ways ; he used
to be rather outspoken than otherwise, but
now, though we are perfectly good friends,
he does not tell me any secrets. However,
I know him well enough to be convinced
there is no eternal passion on hand just
now. Frederick is not the man to keep
away from the object of it if there were
one, either for her sake or his own, especially
now that there are no risks to be run,
and he has been content enough at Horn-dean
until lately."

But an eternal passion may have set in
'lately'"

"No, it has not. I know the symptoms.
I wish, Beatrix, in serious, downright earnest,
he would fall in love with you, for I
am afraid he is gambling again."

And I might divert him from that pastime
 for six weeks."

Something in the speaker's tone, and the
swift flash of her eves, might have warned

Mrs. Townley Gore that she had gone a
little too far in her open exhibition of the
tranquil selfishness that characterised herby
thus proposing Beatrix as a corrective to
that particular one of her brother's vices to
which she most objected, because it was the
most constant and the most costly. But
Mrs. Townley Gore did not see the look or
notice the tone, for she was quite in earnest.
A change had come over her mood of
mind about her brother since that day when
the spitefulness that was dangerously near
the surface of her nature had impelled her
to sneer at Beatrix's defeat by Lady Darrell,
and Beatrix had dimly seen her way
to revenge. Frederick was independent,
safe, and, she was glad to believe, inclined
to be respectable. He could afford to please
himself, and, as it was not be hoped that he
would not marry, it would be pleasant for
her that he should marry her friend. Mr.
Chevenix was out of the way, and this Mrs.
Townley Gore regarded as another great

thing. That he had been a dubious person
she always felt, and Beatrix was well off,
in excellent society, and very much liked
by the "best" people. It really would do
very well; but, just because she thought of
it so approvingly, Mrs. Townley Gore had
enough worldly wisdom to abstain from
talking about it. She had in her a touch
of the superstition that will prevent an old
Alsatian peasant from alluding to his age,
"lest Death should hear him and remember."
She had vague notions of belief in
anything except fate, and that she held to
be mostly malignant, yet sometimes capable
of being cheated. So she merely smiled at
Beatrix and said,

Of course for six weeks. You are that
sort of woman, you know ! But tell me
about the duchess. She came up to town
with you, did she not?"

"Yes, or I came up with her  whichever
you like. It was dull at Derwent, but dulness
was the correct thing for both the

VOL. II. ?

duchess and myself. She is a good woman,
ever so kind and friendly, and she would be
charming, if she did not fancy she can sing,
and if she was not so fidgety about her
children. With about a score of people to
look after them, she is perpetually in the
nursery or the school-room, and they are
what are called ' fine ' children. You know
what I mean  big, fat brats, always eating,
running about, and hanging to their mother's
gown. It was very nice of her to
invite me to Derwent, and the very thing
for me at the time ; but it was dull. A
young duke, rising two years old, isn't
amusing, and the duchess wouldn't see a
soul except the curate, out of consideration
for me. I am afraid I was rather glad
when Benson complained of illness, and the
panic set in. I saw my way to leaving Derwent
after I had put in only half my time,
and I was right. Benson was packed off at
ten minutes' notice, and a substitute found ;
but I saw at once that the dear duchess was

uneasy. The children became suddenly invisible
; even the governess vanished. I
had been dressed by Benson ' after the
feverish symptoms had declared themselves.'
I was in a kind of quarantine. It would
never do for me to fondle the darlings, and
how could I resist it, you know ? I cut the
knot of the duchess's difficulty, and earned
her gratitude by telling her plainly that I
knew she was uneasy, thought her anxiety
wise, and begged her to allow me to leave
Derwent. She was delighted, made me
promise impossible sojourns in the future,
gave me a lovely ring, brought me up to
town, left me at home, and then went off to
consult some quack whom she worships, as
to the best means of disinfecting the house.
I have had bulletins from her, with details
of the health of the girls and little Derwent,
every day, and I have acknowledged them
becomingly. I was so glad to get back to
town ! Need I say how glad when I found
that you were still here ?"

p 2

"Poor, dear, silly woman! And what
was really wrong ?"

With Benson ? I don't know. Whatever
it may be, it is not likely to be cured,
unless railway travelling be a specific for
headache, sore throat, shivering, and hysterics;
for with all these maladies was Benson
afflicted ; and, when I inquired for heron
arriving at Breton Street, Mrs. Jabber
informed me she had sent her home to
her family. She never kept sick servants in
the house, she said. Benson's family reside,
I believe, in Glasgow, so she had enough of
it, I should think, by the time she got
there."

Rather cool, I must say, considering the
woman was your maid."

Oh, I did not mind at all," said Beatrix,
with composure ; " she had been with Mrs.
Mabberley for some time, and she did not
suit me."

Derwent is a fine place, is it not?"

Yes, very grand ; but the house is

gloomy, and it is crammed with magnificent
things that the duchess doesn't care for.
Indeed, I do not think she cares for anything
except her nurseries ; the stables, perhaps
 she tries to like the horses, because
of the poor duke. It amused me to go
over the great, museum-like place, and rummage
and rout, as the duchess called my
proceedings. You remember her diamonds?"


u Of course. They are almost the finest
I ever saw. Those arrows for the head,
especially."

"I put them all on the other night; she
decked me out in them, and very well they
looked in my red hair. She admired me
prodigiously, and said, in her funny, frank
way, that it was a great mistake for ugly
women to wear diamonds. ' They might
pass unnoticed,' said she, 'but their diamonds
don't. Now, I was never aood-
looking enough for diamonds, only my husband
could not be brought to see it.' "

That was not for want of kind attempts
at opening his eyes, if all one has heard be
true."

This was another trait of the speaker's
spitefulness. She was not altogether pleased
about Miss Chevenix's visit to the Duchess
of Derwent, for it was she who had made
Miss Chevenix known to that kind and
simple lady, who had, however, never invited
Mrs. Townley Gore to Derwent Castle.
And once again her friend discerned the
little weakness, and enjoyed it, according to
her wont.

When Miss Chevenix entered Mrs. Townley
Gore's drawing-room the next evening,
she found there the persons whom she had
expected to see, and two or three others.
She produced all the effect which her hostess
had anticipated, by her lavish and majestic
beauty, her calm, dignified air, the 
manner of a woman to whom
homage is as familiar and unfailing as daily
bread, the perfect savoir vivre of the best

social work]. Her dress was not exasperated
into sumptuousness, but it was deficient
in no device of elegance, and it set off every
beauty of her stately figure, and tried her
perfect complexion by cunning tests that
revealed its faultlessness. These charms
were not accompanied by, or compatible
with, that of girlishness, but they lacked no
other. Mr. Horndean and his friend, who
both confessed to a lively curiosity, freely
acknowledged to each other, in the smoking-room
that night, that they had not expected
Mrs. Townley Gore's pet young lady to be
such an indisputable beauty, and to have so
much to say, with a way of saying it that
left everybody else nowhere. The dinner
was very pleasant ; Mr. Townley Gore
always showed to advantage on such occasions
; the guest of the evening was fascination
personified, and the hostess had the
satisfaction of observing that her incredulity
with respect to Frederick, which all her
politeness had failed to hide, melted, like

snow under the sunbeams beneath the influence
of his determination to please Beatrix.
Mrs. Townley Gore was tolerably
familiar with her brother's manner on similar
occasions, and she sincerely admired him on
this one. The troublesome, inconvenient,
menacing, objectionable Frederick Lorton
was happily replaced, completely obliterated,
by the unexceptionable Mr. Horndean of
Horndean.

He was even so much better looking ;
slimness was becoming to him, and if his
fine, dark eyes were a little hollow, they
had gained in expression. How well he
talked ! with that careful deference to Beatrix's
opinion, that charming air of seriously
holding what women said worth hearing,
though the talk was not trivialities; and
the rare tact of change of topic without
abruptness.

And the artist? Was he studying the
model Mrs. Townley Gore had so long promised
him ? He was, and closely ; but, if

he had told her the result of that study, it
would have surprised her not a little. He
did not tell it to her, or to Mr. Horndean,
with whom he perfectly agreed as to the
beauty and the brilliancy of Miss Chevenix ;
but it was this : he had never seen a
woman whose beauty his artistic sense more
thoroughly recognised, but who was so devoid
of charm for him ; and he had never
heard a woman talk whose utterances, for
all their fluency, and wit, and self-possession
had so grated on his ear, and jarred with
his conscience, his taste, and his humour.
Perhaps Frank Lisle had an ideal in his
mind, or an image in his memory of a pure,
fair girl, unconscious of the calm loveliness
that was " as moonlight unto sunlight " in
comparison with the splendid beauty of
this red-haired woman with the glittering,
colourless eyes, the lips that were a tinge
too roseate, and the laugh that was not
quite in tune. Perhaps the ideal in his
mind, the image in his memory, was of a

sweet and innocent intelligence, devoid of
the knowledge that tipped the shafts of
Beatrix's wit, and the boldness that sent
them flying to their mark. However that
may have been, Frank Lisle disliked Miss
Chevenix almost as much as he admired
her.

The two friends, whose apparent agreement
had so wide an unsuspected divergence,
were joined in the smoking-room by Mr.
Townley Gore ; he came in with some newspapers
in his hand.

It's rather odd," he said, " we should
have been talking of the Duchess of Derwent's
diamonds to-night. They've been
stolen. Here are the latest editions of the
evening papers, with an account of the
robbery. A clean sweep, and deucedly
clever."

CHAPTER XL

EPISODICAL.

ON the day after the little dinner, Mrs.
Townley Gore and her young friend
were to meet again. They would naturally
have a good deal to say to each other. Mrs.
Townley Gore would want to discover what
impression her brother  whom it was desirable
to " steady" by a love-affair of a
creditable kind  had made upon Beatrix,
and Beatrix would want to find out what
impression she had made upon Mr. Horn-dean.
Not that Beatrix was in any doubt
upon the point. The looks, tone, and manner
of her friend's brother had been sufficiently
expressive of admiration, But she

would be glad to have her own conviction
confirmed, and also to ascertain whether
Mrs. Townley Gore was in reality so well
disposed as her extreme urbanity of the
preceding evening had indicated her to be.
As a matter of fact, she was, because she
did not care a straw whether her brother
merely amused himself with Miss Chevenix
with the result of gaining her affections, and
bestowing what he called his own upon
some newer object, within an undefined
term of delay  or whether the matter took
a serious aspect. Of course Frederick might
do a great deal better ; but then, he might
do worse.

On the whole, Mrs. Townley Gore was
in a very good humour, as she sat in her
morning-room writing her letters, after she
had settled her household affairs and put
her engagements in order. There was a
comfortable, smooth-water sense about all
her affairs just then, which made her feel
benevolently disposed.

Presently her brother made her a pleasant
little visit, and that was, in itself, a significant
departure from his ordinary ways.
They talked of Beatrix, her beauty, her
singing, her lively conversation, and her
social success.

Mr. Horndean was quite animated. The
air of boredom and languor which hung
about him in general, and was imputed to
the lingering results of the fever, was exchanged
for the manner that recalled
Frederick in his " troublesome " but charming
days. The indefinable restraint which,
notwithstanding all his hospitality and attention
as her host, had marked his intercourse
with her at Horndean, and restricted
their conversation in general to the most
ordinary topics, with a careful avoidance of
reference to the past, suddenly vanished.

11 1 am glad you think Miss Chevenix so
handsome," said Mrs. Townley Gore. "She
is quite my ideal ; but I have not found
everyone ready to agree with me."

In her style, she is the finest woman I
ever saw. Of course, Lisle put an Italian
painter's name to the style. I forget which
of the old fellows it was ; some one who was
great at red hair, and what he calls the
 pearly ' tints."

"Does Mr. Lisle admire her very much ?"

Yes ; but he is so critical. He never
lets one forget that there are spots in the
sun. There is not one in Miss Chevenix's
complexion, as I remarked to him. He
acknowledges that is her strong point, but
he will have it that her eyes are not far
enough apart, and that they are shallow,
that her mouth is hard, and that there is a
want of soul about her.' ,

Mrs. Townley Gore smiled. She was not
displeased that her brother's friend was less
captivated by Beatrix than her brother.

"She certainly is not sentimental, if he
means that," she remarked. " He must only
tone down these defects, in the portrait he
is to paint at Horndean."

There is a great deal of aplomb about
her  all the manner of a woman of the
world."

'precisely what she is, my dear Frederick.
Beatrix Chevenix would adorn any
position. I thought yesterday, when she
told me how the duchess dressed her up in
her diamonds, that she must have become
them ' bravely ;' and if they never turn up
again they will have made a good end. Nothing
more of the diamonds, I suppose, in
the papers this morning ?"

Nothing. It was what they call a put-up
business, no doubt."

Beatrix will be full of it, when I see
her to-day. I daresay she will have heard
of the affair direct from the duchess."

At this point, Mr. Townley Gore entered
the room, and Mr. Horndean, having ascertained
that his sister and Miss Chevenix
would be in the park at five o'clock, took
his leave.

Mr. Townley Gore did not seem to be in

very good spirits, and he did seem to have a
little difficulty in entering on the matter in
hand.

His wife saw that he had something
special to say, and went to the point at
once.

Anything wrong ?"

"No, not exactly; but I have a letter
from Mr. Simpson, which I thought you had
better see."

What on earth has he to write to you
about? No new folly of Frederick's, I
hope !"

"No, nothing to do with Frederick.
Mr. Simpson writes to inquire about Helen
Rhodes."

With an impatient exclamation and a
black frown, Mrs. Townley Gore took the
letter from her husband's hand. It consisted
of a few lines only, in which the
writer stated that, having his attention
called to certain matters relating to the
affairs of his late client, the Rev. Herbert

Rhodes, he was anxious to ascertain where
Miss Rhodes was at present, and what was her
actual position. Referring to the statement
of his purpose with regard to Miss Rhodes,
made by Mr. Townley Gore on a former
occasion, Mr. Simpson had recourse to him
to obtain those particulars.

I do not see why you should have
thought it necessary for me to see this
letter," said Mrs. Townley Gore, as she
threw it on the table. "The subject of
Miss Rhodes is highly distasteful, and you
could have replied to Mr. Simpson, if you
thought proper, without referring to me."

Perhaps so ; but I considered it wiser
to consult you. It does not do to shirk
distasteful subjects always; and I feel that
this one has been shirked too long. I
cannot answer these questions without
making myself acquainted with the facts,
and I think an inquiry into them would
come better from you than from me."

I do not know what you mean."

VOL. II. Q

"I mean, Caroline, that I want you to
write to the person with whom that poor
girl is, and ask for her. Your inquiry maybe
as formal as you please."

It was very rarely that Mrs. Townley
Gore gave way to her temper when her
husband was in question ; she was too wisely
considerate of her own comfort ; but
this was one of those rare occasions. In an
instant the elegant composure of her
manner vanished, her features flushed with
anger, and she answered, in a raised and
tremulous tone,

I shall do nothing of the sort, and I
wonder you venture to ask me. 1 wonder
you name that person in my hearing.
Poor girl,' indeed ! You must have a
great deal of pity to spare if you bestow
any on so ungrateful and undeserving an
object."

"lam sorry you take the matter in that
way, Caroline," said Mr. Townley Gore,
for it is one in which there were faults on

both sides. One fault was mine. I did
not tell you of poor Helen's appeal to me
against your treatment of her  treatment
which drove her to the step she took ; and

I did not insist on your altering it, as I
sought to have done."

Mrs. Townley Gore's astonishment was
almost equal to her rage. The subject of
Helen Rhodes had been dismissed by tacit,
consent after they received the false
explanation of her flight, and neither had
any reason to suppose that the other ever
bestowed a thought upon it. That her
husband should take this turn, that he
should talk to her about " faults " and

II insisting," was something new indeed,
and it hardened her heart still more against
Helen.

The violent effort by which she restrained
herself, was aided by her sheer
surprise.

"I neither know nor desire to know
what you are talking about," said she, with

Q2

recovered calm, " and I beg the matter
may never be mentioned to me again. I
decline to discuss Miss Rhodes, her conductor
her position."

As you please. I shall write to her
friend myself, and I hope there may be
some motive for Mr. Simpson's question
that means good to come from somewhere
to her. Be so kind as to give me the
address of Madame "

Morrison, milliner and dressmaker 
the individual whom Miss Rhodes selected
to replace you as her protector. I never
pretended to be anything of the sort. That
is her address, and now I beg that I may
hear no more of the matter."

With ostentatious insolence, Mrs. Townley
Gore resumed the writing of her letters,
and her husband, after one steady look at
her, which might have conveyed a warning
had she seen it, left the room.

She is growing positively plain !" Such
was Mr. Townley Gore's first reflection.

Ihad not noticed before how much her
infernal temper tells on her looks."

The mood in which Miss Chevenix found
herself on the day after the little dinner
at the Townley Gores was as cheerful as
that of her friend. She was in the habit
of studying her looks at some length of
mornings, and on this particular morning
her looking-glass gave her the pleasantness
assurances. Her eyes were bright, her skin
was fair, health and vitality in their beautiful
perfection were displayed in her face,
her form, and her movements. She admired
herself with a sort of abstract and
impartial sincerity, as she leaned back in
her chair and rested her finely-formed,
large arm, tired with the unaccustomed
exercise of brushing the hair that hung,
a glittering, redly-golden mantle over
her shoulders. She was up early, as
usual, and, though it was a bore to be
without a maid, she had declined the

services of Mrs. Mabberley's attendant.
Somehow, Beatrix was always glad when
she could decline any offer, or traverse any
arrangement made by Mrs. Mabberley.
Either of those opportunities occurred but
seldom ; there was a quiet strength of will
and an unalterable fixedness of purpose
about the insignificant-looking, low-voiced
mistress of the house which Beatrix called
home, and to those two qualities Miss
Chevenix, whose passions were stronger
than her mind, almost always yielded. The
restraint of which she was conscious had not
yet become intolerable ; perhaps, because
she had been a good deal away ; but it had
deepened her dislike of Mrs. Mabberley
into aversion, that would, had any stimulant
been wanting, have supplied her with
superhuman resolution to achieve her independence.


The two ladies behaved to each other
with perfect courtesy ; not the most inquisitive
domestic detective could have discovered

a flaw in their relations. Mrs.
Mabberley's household was a model of
decorum, and Mrs. Mabberley herself was
a .happy example of the juste milieu.
Family prayer was as fixed an institution as
breakfast, and every individual in the house,
except Beatrix, went to church at least once
on Sundays. Mrs. Mabberley did not, however,
belong to any of the subdivisions of
the so-called religious world ; the ritualist
with the aureole of unrighteous imprisonment
on his pale brow ; the per-fervid professor
of new lights, with an astonishing
41 reading " of the plainest-spoken texts of
Holy Writ ; the liberal and enlightened
divine, who has expanded in one direction,
and whittled away in another, until old-fashioned
people find the faith of the day
as little to their liking as its morals or its
manners, were never "lionised" by Mrs.
Mabberley. She was "so well-regulated,"
people said ; and hers was " such a nice
house for one's girls to go to," was observed

by mothers who still retained the belief
that discrimination in such matters was a
duty. To one of these mothers, who ventured
to comment on the fact that Mrs.
Mabberley's dear interesting young friend
never went to church, and made no secret
of her free-thinking, she made an answer
which raised her a degree in the hearer's
estimation.

Dear Mrs. Rowley," said she, " we must
never forget that poor Beatrix had not our
advantages of bringing up ; nor such training
as your sweet girls enjoy. This thought
should render us so indulgent. Do you
not think so ? And with time and good
example there is much to hope."

This skilful avoiding of the charge of inconsistency
would give the measure of Mrs.
Mabberley's tact. Things had hitherto gone
quite smoothly between her beautiful guest
and herself; the only strain of the chain
that connected them occurred when Mrs,
Townley Gore's invitation clashed with certain

previously-formed plans of Mrs. Mab-barley's.
On that occasion she kept Miss
Chevenix in suspense for a whole week, and
at the end of it told her, without vouchsafing
any explanation of the delay, that she
might make her arrangements to go to
Horndean in September.

This promised visit was engaging Miss
Chevenixs thoughts very pleasantly ; she
had found Mrs. Townley Gore's brother
much more agreeable than she expected,
and she had thoroughly enjoyed the consciousness
that he was captivated by her.
Altogether things looked very well, if only
the odious interval were over. The prayer-bell
rang, unheard by Beatrix. She went
on languidly brushing her hair, and after a
short interval her letters were brought to
her room. A three-cornered note was on
the tray; it contained a line from Mrs.
Mabberley.

u I have to K> out on business this morning,

and do not expect to get back until
late. I have promised for you that you will
come with me to dine at the Ramsdenss."

How horribly provoking !" said Beatrix,
half aloud, as she tore the paper with the
cruel action of the ringers peculiar to her.
This dinner engagement came most inconveniently.
She had been speculating on
Mrs. Townley Gore proposing some impromptu
amusement for that evening, Mr.
Horndean was just in the state of mind that
leads to schemes of the kind, and she especially
hated to have to pass an evening in
the house that had been her own.

The next letter was from the Duchess of
Derwent, and it, too, disturbed Miss Chevy
composure very strongly.

Have you the evil eye, dear Beatrice'"
wrote the duchess, " and did you cast a
spell on the jewels that became you so
well? I am sure you are sorry for me.

You will see by the papers how cleverly the
robbery was done. The police are active,
of course, but I never expect to see the
diamonds again."

Beatrix rang her bell, and desired that
yesterday's newspapers should be brought to
her. In the evening journals were detailed
accounts of the great jewel robbery at Derwent
Castle. It had taken place three days
after the termination of her stay at the castle
; was supposed to be the work of one
person, as only one stranger had been observed
about the place; and had been effected
with extraordinary coolness, daring, and
success; the lock of the duchess's jewel-case
having been dexterously picked, and the
diamonds abstracted without apparent injury
to the box. Access to the room had
been gained by a workman's ladder, which
was left standing against the wall beneath
the open window. The only evidence concerning
this was that of two of the duchess's

children and their nursery governess : a
man had passed them in the shrubbery carrying
a ladder ; he was not one of the gardener's
assistants, and the children had never
seen him before.

Beatrix was horrified. She estimated the
duchess's feeling rather b} 7 her own appreciation
of the delights of possessing diamonds,
than by that of her friend, but, to even the
most careless of such things, the loss was a
very serious one. It was rarely that Beatrix
sought the presence of Mrs. Mabberley,
when she had an excuse for avoiding it, and
she never joined her at breakfast ; but, this
morning, she went downstairs so soon as
she was dressed, with the newspapers and
the duchess's letter in her hand, and found
Mrs. Mabberley breakfasting sedately in
solitude. She had not chanced to notice
the account of the robber 7 , she rarely read
the records of crime; but she displayed
what, for her, was interest in Beatrix's story
and in her description of the beauty and

value of the diamonds. She had never
chanced to hear the Duchess of Derwent
mentioned as the possessor of remarkable
jewels. Mrs. Mabberley feared that the
duchess was right, that she would never seethe
diamonds again. She herself had been
robbed of jewels (of course quite insignificant
in comparison with such a loss as the
duchess's), and ail the efforts of the police to-trace
them had failed.

"Though it was not so cleverly done as
this," added Mrs. Mabberley, "which is
evidently a long-planned, put-up thing;
for that, I believe, is the phrase they use
in their odious jargon, when they mean that
a robbery is done with the connivance of
people in the house."

"Oh, do you think so?" objected Beatrix;
"the duchess's people are all so devoted
to her."

Mrs. Mabberley smiled, and Beatrix saw
that she, being busy, had had enough of the
duchess and her diamonds.

Mrs. Townley Gore had a good deal to
say about them when she and Beatrix met.
She had got over her ill-humour by that
time; she was very pleasant about Beatrix's
conquests of the previous evening, and she
remarked, before the carriage turned into
the park, that one of the advantages of the
end of the season, was, that one could make
a plan on an impulse, and had not all one's
time laid out like a chess-board. She had
promised Frederick that they would do
something that evening  Richmond, perhaps,
or Twickenham  and she laid an embargo
on her friend accordingly. Then Beatrix
had to explain, with genuine vexation, that
she was not free to accept so charming an
invitation, and she was puzzling Mrs. Townley
Gore very much by her uncharacteristic
yielding to Mrs. Mabberley's behest,
when they came in sight of Mr. Horndean
and Mr. Lisle, who were on the watch for them.
The victoria was drawn up under the trees,
and the gentlemen entered into animated

talk with its occupants ; Mr. Horndean, who
stood with his back to the footpath, protesting,
with all the earnestness that Beatrix
could desire, against her cruel decision and
the overthrow of his hopes.

Frank Lisle, talking to Mrs. Townley Gore
on the other side of the carriage, paused
and looked curiously after a man who passed
on the footpath. The man was tall,
strongly built, fashionably dressed, with nothing
remarkable about him except that he
wore his hair rather long. His eyes and
complexion were dark.

Mrs. Townley Gore, observing Mr. Lisle's
gaze, glanced at its object, and asked him
who was the person that had caught his
attention.

"Not a person, but a resemblance," he
answered. "I never saw one more striking.'
That man might have sat for my portrait
of the organ grinder whom I found
asleep under the big tree on the green at
Horndean. I had sketched him comfortably

before he woke up and expressed himself in
disobliging terms respecting my eyes and
my impudence. It is quite extraordinary.
They might be twins. I hope he may come
this way again, and that you will see it."

The object of Mr. Lisle's remarks did not
come that way again, and the ladies drove
on presently, leaving Mr. Horndean to all
the discontent into which a contradiction
was wont to plunge him.

When Madame Morrison received the
civil letter in which Mr. Townley Gore requested
her to inform him whether Miss
Rhodes was with her, and made a polite, if
cold, enquiry after Helen's health and welfare,
she was troubled. She had expected
and desired some such enquiry ; but, now
that it had come, she was perplexed by it.
If the way to a reconciliation with the
Townley Gores, and a restoration of Helen
to their protection and her legitimate position
in society, could be opened by this

means, it would be the right thing ; and yet
Madame Morrison shrank from the idea.
Helen was improving, her mind was less
disturbed, her heart was more at ease ; here
would be the renewal of suffering for her.
But her future? Madame Morrison, unaware
that Mr. Townley Gore's enquiry was
not due to the unaided promptings of his
own conscience or his own feelings, very naturally
expected that it would have some further
result ; and she therefore thought it
right to inform Helen that the enquiry had
been made, before she replied to it.

Helen received the communication with
great emotion, and learned with downright
terror that Madame Morrison expected it
might have consequences. She protested so
strongly that she never could face either
Mr. or Mrs. Townley Gore with the burden
of her secret to make everything so much
more dreadful than before ; she so earnestly
entreated Madame Morrison to answer the
questions as briefly as possible ; she was

VOL. II. R

made so ill by the incident, that Madame
Morrison gave up the attempt to persuade
her. She wrote to Mr. Townley Gore that
Miss Rhodes was residing with her, and was
in good health.

Mr. Townley Gore communicated the reply
to Mr. Simpson almost as curtly, and there
the matter ended.

CHAPTER XII.

ANOTHER LITTLE DINNER.

:; T CANNOT say I think you are 
ing your best this evening," said Mrs.
Mabberley to Beatrix, as the two ladies
were being conveyed in Mrs. Mabberley's
soberly-appointed brougham the short distance
that divided her house from Miss
Chevenix's former home in Chesterfield
Street. It was their first time of meeting
that day, and Beatrix was out of humour.

I daresay not," she answered, with
supreme indifference, " 1 am tired ; it is a
bore to have to dress myself, and I do not
care how I look to-night."

"For people who are only my friends  I

b2

understand." Nothing could be sweeter
than the manner of Mrs. Mabberley, or
more complaisant than her smile. " But I
don't know that you are right," she added.
"When one's business in life is what yours
is, it is well to use every opportunity, and
wise to despise no means."

I don't see that this is an opportunity,
or that these people can put any means to
my end in my way. You have never told
me anything about them that could interest
me."

"No? Well, I suppose I have not.
They are not in either your old or your new
set, certainly ; but still I hope you will be
civil to them."

"I am hardly likely to go to people's
houses and be rude there !"

I do not know that, by any means,"
said her candid friend, in a tone whose untroubled
evenness grated on the ear of
Beatrix. " You have such a very bad
temper that it is impossible for you to have

quite good manners ; and I think it is not
impossible your temper may get the better
of your manners to-night. Keep it in order,
my dear, I advise you."

The carriage stopped at the door of
Beatrix's old house ; as she stepped out she
glanced upwards at the drawing-room window.
The balconies were bare of flowers,
and there were no bird-cages there, as there
had been in her time.

Inside the house the aspect of things was
also changed ; the furniture was indeed the
same, but the different character and mode
of life of the occupants revealed themselves
in the primness of its arrangement, and by
certain changes which the quick eye of
Beatrix noted instantly. The big flowerpots
of old Given stood in a row, empty,
under the hall-table, and that massive piece
of furniture was no longer strewn with cards
and notes. A London Directory, an ugly
wire construction for "Post" and "Delivery,"
a practical-looking slate, and a

square basket containing neat bundles of
tracts, with a card, legibly inscribed, f: Please
take a packet for distribution," replaced the
mundane litter of Beatrix's time.

New blinds," said Miss Chevenix to
herself as she followed Mrs. Mabberley up
the stairs, " and what hideous ones !"

Her introduction to Colonel and Mrs.
Ramsden over, she had leisure to look
about her, and to wonder at the altered
aspect that the rooms, although ever r
article was the same as it had been, now
presented. She was not at all sentimental,
and the change did not pain here, nor did
she, as persons with more feeling than
logic are inclined to do, resent any alteration
at all in a place which might be supposed
to have dear remembrances.

Beatrix merely wondered that anything
so ugly as the green-and-yellow table-covers
which Mrs. Ramsden had added to the
perishing, could have been designed by
human invention ; whether the colonel and

his shrewd-looking wife held flowers to be
sinful, and accordingly banished them, and
what sort of people made up the Ramsden
world. Very respectable, no doubt  judging
from the samples that presented themselves
in rapid succession, until a party of
twelve was assembled  but profoundly uninteresting.
The last person to enter the
room was a young man, who was immediately
presented to Beatrix as Mr. James
Ramsden.

The son was an improvement on the
father in point both of appearance and
manners, for Colonel Ramsden struck Beatrix
as being the very stiffest and old-fogies
individual she had ever met ; with something
in his air which she, with her quick
perception of social nuances, explained by
the supposition that he had risen from the
ranks. He was pompous, but he was not
easy, and he occasionally used expressions
and turns of phrase which, without being
actually incorrect, were not customary.

Mr. Ramsden was well-looking, in a picturesque
style. The sort of man who would
go to a masquerade as a bull-fighter or a
Spanish gipsy, thought Beatrix. And she
found him amusing, though he did not know
anyone whom she knew, and was not well
versed in London topics.

Mrs. Ramsden was a dark, reserved, cold
little woman of fifty, with furtive eyes and
the hands of a housemaid. Her dress was
expensive and ill-chosen.

The dinner was a good one, and it lasted
long, to the satisfaction of Beatrix, who
looked forward with dread to the ordeal of
the drawing-room hour with five uninteresting
women. She wondered whether they
would cross-examine her on religion, and
talk of their favourite preachers.

It was so odd for her to be there, at a
solemn dinner, with a solemn set of people,
all eating and drinking with the most serious
goodwill, in the same room that had been
the scene of the charming little dinners for

which Mr. Chevenix was famous : dinners
in the style of that of the day before at the
Townley Gores  gay, unconstrained, refined
the best people among the guests, and
never a trace or suggestion of the unmannerly
existence of black care.

What a perfect host Mr. Chevenix was
in those days ! The duns in the hall, of a
morning, did not intrude themselves upon
his remembrance in the evening ; and, provided
the best of everything made its appearance
upon his table, it gave him no
manner of concern w 7 hen it should be paid
for, or whether it was ever to be paid for
at all.

Beatrix thought of these things while
Mr. Ramsden talked to her about Italian
opera and Spanish dancing, and she, also,
thought of the end of them. How right her
father had been ; how much he had enjoyed
life ; how cleverly he had cheated the
enemy, ennui ; and how precisely at the
right time he had finished up with it all !

Unfortunately, it could never be the same
thing for a woman ; the social system, her
own dependence, and her own nerves, place
her at a great and unfair disadvantage. It
must always be essential to a woman to feel
secure.

An agreeable consciousness accompanied
these thoughts. Security, which should be
combined with other pleasant conditions of
existence, was within the reach of Beatrix.
She looked with disdain, carefully hidden
under a gracious smile, at the young man
by her side, under whose bold glance her
colour did not rise, nor did her eyelids
droop, and from the illuminated text above
the sideboard to the solemn, second-rate
company, as she thought complacently that,
unless she had misinterpreted the words and
looks of Mr. Horndean more completely
than she had ever before misinterpreted
words or looks, the hateful tie that bound
her to Mrs. Mabberley might be broken
almost as soon as she pleased.

It was at the moment of the move that
she was most full of this consoling thought,
and Mr. Ramsden had just picked up her
fan and handed it to her, when she observed
a quick, questioning glance directed by Mrs.
Mabberley to Colonel Ramsden, and answered
by him with an almost imperceptible
nod. There was something strange in this,
and Beatrix, for all her self-concentration,
was so constantly constrained to think about
the woman with whom she lived on terms
of intimate dislike, that it turned her
thoughts into another channel.

The look on the one side, the gesture on
the other, implied a peculiar intimacy ; and
Beatrix wondered whether it was of the
same nature as the intimacy that had subsisted
between her father and Mrs. Jabber
If it were, the parties invested their
friendship with much reserve. That dread
ordeal of the drawing-room was brief, and
Beatrix employed the interval in tracing
the once familiar articles of furniture and

ornament to their perverted places and uses.
She would have liked to go upstairs and
look into her own old room, but Mrs.
Ramsden was not a person to whom she
could propose anything of that kind. She
did stroll into the conservatory, but found
it bare of flowers, half-lighted by one dim
lamp, and invaded by rubbish. Some photographer's
apparatus, and a box huddled
up in green baize, occupied the neat shelf
which had been devoted to Beatrix's favourite
ferns. As she came out of the conservatory,
the gentlemen entered the ,
and she was immediately joined
by Mr. Ramsden.

"I fear you must think us sad Goths; my
smother does not care for flowers. You
love them ?"

"Passionately. I could not live without
flowers."

"You will enjoy the gardens at Horn-dean.
Mrs. Mabberley has been saying
that you are going there."

Do you know Horndean ?" she asked,
quickly.

"I have seen the place; the gardens are
good, and well kept."

Beatrix felt vaguely curious. When had
Mr. Ramsden seen Horndean ? Mrs. Townley
Gore knew nothing of the Ramsdenss.
Did Mr. Horndean ? She would have
asked a question on the point, but at that
moment a general movement was perceptible.
What did it mean ? Prayers, perhaps,
thought Beatrix ; the servants were
moving tables and arranging lights. " The
colonel will treat us to an exposition and
an outpouring. Too bad of Mrs. Jabber
to put me in for that sort of thing."
Her fears were unfounded, but she could
hardly believe her eyes when the meaning
of the movement was made clear, and the
whole party, with the exception of Mr.
Ramsden and herself, sat down to play
cards in very serious earnest.

You look amazed. Miss Chevenix," said

Mr. Ramsden. " You did not expect to
see 'the devil's picture-books' in this house ?"

A touch of familiarity in his tone annoyed
Beatrix, and she answered, haughtily,

11 1 formed no expectations whatsoever
about this house, Mr. Ramsden."

And you might easily have supposed us
to be too pious for card-playing."

Neither did I trouble myself about the
piety of its inmates."

I have the misfortune to displease you
by my remarks," said Mr. Ramsden, with a
sudden change of his manner to distant
respect. " Will you permit me to atone by
my one poor accomplishment ? I know
you love music  and when they are at cards
nothing ever disturbs them."

He opened the piano without waiting for
her reply, and in a few minutes had won
Beatrix from her ill-humour by playing and
singing in a style that fairly enchanted
her.

When the Ramsden family were alone,

Mrs. Ramsden left the room without speaking,
and the colonel and his son proceeded
to comment on Mrs. Mabberley's fair friend.
The tone of their remarks was free rather
than refined, and the colonel used some expletives,
apropos of what he took the young
lady's temper to be, that hardly harmonised
with the illuminated texts and the family
reputation.

It was a deuced clever thing of Mrs.
Mab., wasn't it?" said the young man,
whom Beatrix had impressed as much by
her insolence as by her beauty.

"I don't say it wasn't; but, mark me, it
was a deuced dangerous thing, too. That
handsome minx is too clever to be safe,
with her eyes shut."

With this enigmatical utterance, the colonel
withdrew to his private meditations,
and the consumption of a good deal of
brandy and water ; while the young man let
himself quietly out of the street-door, and
went off to more congenial scenes.

"I wish to say a few words to you tonight,"
said Mrs. Mabberley, when she and
Beatrix were in the hall at Hill Street. She
led the way into the small back room on
the ground floor, in which this most exact
of women transacted her business of all-kinds.


I am rather sleepy," said Beatrix, as she
followed Mrs. Mabberley reluctantly.

' 1 shall not detain you. Will you not
sit down ?"

a No, thanks. It feels more like getting
it over to stand."

She leaned on the back of an easy-chair,
with her arms crossed, and both her face
and figure expressed a fatigued indifference.
Mrs. Mabberley went on, in her habitual
low, slow tone, and with the customary
imperturbable smile.

I have not much reason to thank you
for your concession to my wishes, Beatrix,
but you cannot provoke me, though you are
so foolish and shortsighted as to let your

temper continually tempt you into trying todo
so. It does not suit me, my dear, and
you cannot suppose that I should allow a
girl like you to induce me to do anything
that would not suit me. You did not behave
at all nicely this evening." She pretended
to be totally unconscious of the
start of indignation with which Beatrix
heard her, and the angry flush in her face
at this calm assumption of superior manners.
And I have no doubt you made a very
unfavourable impression "

Beatrix interrupted her with a scornful
laugh.

"The great affair' she said, " to make
a favourable impression on people like
those !"

They are all a good deal more important
than you are. But we will let
that pass. There will be no need for you
to make any other such exhibition of your
taste and your breeding. My purpose intaking
you to the Ramsdenss has been

VOL. II. s

effected ; you will-not have to go there
again."

So much the better ; it does not ' suit
me,' as you say. I am sure I cannot
imagine what your purpose was."

No ? It is not at all necessary that you
should ; and we will, if you please, drop
the subject. I wanted to say to you tonight
that you will have to limit your stay
at Horndean to three weeks, as I wish you
to accept Lady Jane's invitation for October.
That is a house at which it maybe a great
advantage to you to visit."

Beatrix sullenly signified her acquiescence.
She did not say a word to Mrs.
Mabberley of what was in her thoughts ;
it formed no part of their compact that she
should do so.

You will write at once to Lady Jane,
accepting her invitation, and remember that
I shall like to know of whom her party will
consist."

Lest they might not suit you ?"

"My dear Beatrix, your sarcasm is silly.
Precisely so ; lest they might not suit me.
And now, I will detain you no longer, but
say good night, adding a bit of news that
will please you. Your new maid will be
here the day after tomorrow."

"Oh!" said Beatrix, shortly, and that
was all she said.

Mr. Frank Lisle tired of London after a
short sojourn, and as he had visions of the
very earliest of the autumnal tints at Horn-dean,
and was in haste to realize them, he
went back there a few days after the little
dinner. His friend was left to the task of
attendance upon his sister, in which Mr.
Hornclean had suddenly become laudably
assiduous, and to the enjoyment of a good
deal of Miss Chevenix's society.

"Frederick has fallen m love with that
handsome, selfish young woman," said Mr.
Lisle to himself, as he watched the flying
miles of brick and mortar that stretched far

s2

ahead, before he could hope for the country
tints and forms that he loved, " rather more
expeditiously than I have yet seen him
perform the same feat. He can afford to
marry now, and so I suppose he will marry
her before the fit is over. It is, then, only
to be hoped that the fit may last. Mrs.
T. G. means it, I should think, or she would
not throw them together in the way she has
done. Here's the first lane on this side
town, and there's a real cottage, a tree with
a brown trunk instead of a black one, and
the indispensable bit of red supplied by a
flannel shirt drying on a line. There's neat-handed
Phyllis too, washing the greens.
How do you do, my dear? What a pity
we are going thirty miles an hour !"

CHAPTER XIII.

A NEW LIFE.

JANE MERRICK punctually kept her
V engagement with the concierge at the
house at Neuilly. She received from Madame
Moreau a report of the visit of Mr.
Lisle, an assurance that the parcel left in
Moreau's charge had been given to him, and
the additional information that Mr. Lisle had
appeared to be totally unprepared to find
that madam e had departed to England, and
that monsieur himself was so changed she
(Madame Moreau) could hardly believe he
was the same person who had taken the
apartment, and engaged her daughter Delphine
as an attendant for the lady.

You can hardly believe it," repeated
Jane, quickly. " Are you quite sure this
person was the same ?"

Oh ! yes. Madame Moreau was quite
sure ; there could be no doubt at all ; what
she had said was only a way of speaking,
it was very surely Mr. Lisle. And he had
remained a good while up there, and had
gone away, finally, leaving no word or
message for anyone. Madame civilly hoped
the young couple were happily re-united,
and that all was well with Madame Lisle.

Jane made her a vague reply, and returned
to Paris, troubled and confounded
by the result of her visit to Neuilly. She
had not expected to hear anything of Mr.
Lisle ; she had come to believe, with her
aunt, that he had merely forsaken Helen ;
that he should return to look for her, and,
finding her gone, take no further step in
reference to her, was out of Jane's calculations,
and she was afraid of the effect which
this inconsistent conduct might produce on

Helen. Mrs. Morrison and Jane were both
of opinion that she must be told ; and they
were surprised at the way in which, after
her first agitation and tears, she took the
incident.

I am so glad, so happy, so relieved,"
she said, " that he was not so bad as you
thought, as you were afraid he might be.
And I am so thankful to know, to be quite
sure, that he is living, and that no harm has
come to him. You will forgive me, I am
sure, if I cannot yet think much of anything
else."

She said very little more on the subject,
and though she was very quiet, and would
sit absorbed in thought, and seemingly unconscious
of things around her, for long
lapses of time, she improved in health day
by day. Her aspect was too grave for her
years, the impress which is not to be shaken
off had been set upon her beauty; the glow,
the glitter, and the gladness had passed
away from it never to return, as had the

girlish trust, the universal hope, and the
innocence that does not fear harm, because
it does not know the existence of evil ;
but there had come something in their
place that lent to Helen a deeper and a
more potent charm. The varied suffering
she had undergone within a period really
brief, but which seemed to her to have been
endless in duration, had educated Helen's
mind as years of mere teaching might have
failed to educate it. The self-confidence,
the fearless expectation of youth and inexperience,
had departed from her for ever,
but precious things had come in their place,
accompanying and taking the sting out of
her condemnation of herself for the grave
fault of which she had really been guilty.
Those precious things were the gifts of
humility, of self-knowledge, and of patience ;
the dawning of a perception that happiness
is not a flower of this world's growth, and,
therefore, they who seek for it labour in
vain, and to the hurt of their own souls;

and the release, accomplished only with an
almost intolerable pang, from the bondage
of a love which was for the most part
visionary.

Helen became aware of this release
shortly after she had heard from Jane the
result of her visit to the house at Neuilly ;
and she suffered, perhaps, as terrible an
agony in the consciousness of it, as in any of
the hours of miserable suspense from which
she had been delivered. Many feelings
went to the composition of the state of mind
into which she fell, and among them there
was burning shame, self-contempt, and self-condemnation.
The two good women who
loved the girl, and watched her with deep
commiseration that was never intrusive, and
patience that never gave way before her
variable moods, could not, probably, define
the phases through which she passed, but
their sympathy availed as much as if they
had accurately analysed her feelings. They
regarded her as a sick person snatched from

death, and now needing to be nursed back
through convalescence into health ; and
they did the nursing accordingly, without
bothering their patient, or even so much as
asking her in words how she did. Their
intelligent observation of symptoms, and
judicious administration of nourishment and
stimulant, brought the happiest results to
the mind diseased. It was a condition of
her state that Helen should but dimly, if at
all, apprehend their wise and constant care
of her, and it was not until long afterwards,
when life had taught her many another
lesson, and she had extended perceptions
and enlarged sympathies of her own to help
her to a comprehension of them, that she
rightly understood and duly estimated the
skill, the tenderness, and the sympathy
with which she had been treated in that
terrible sickness of the soul. But, when
that time came, Helen wondered at these
things no longer, for she had learned the
meaning of that " grace of God" that Jane

had been used to speak of in their schooldays,
and she knew the smile, the touch,
and the whisper of the chief among its
ministers  Charity ; which knowing, there
was no more "amazement" for her.

The time of such refreshing and stabs
liniment as this was, however, in the far
future, and it is with the fever and the
feebleness we have to do.

When Helen knew that Frank Lisle was
not dead, but that he had made no sign, she
began to feel conscious of a growing freedom.
All was dim and doubtful beyond
the fact that his conduct was not explained
by the only solution that would have proved
it to be involuntary; and, after a short time
of great misery, she knew that she no longer
suffered from that dimness and uncertainty.
Her youth asserted itself, though its elasticity
was impaired ; the new atmosphere of
cheerful activity, and happy, helpful companionship
aided her ; the imaginary world
gave place to the actual, and Helen had to

realise, with a great shock of conviction,
and a sense of something like self-loathing,
that she no longer loved and lived upon the
memory of Frank Lisle.

I must be the worst and wickedest creature
that ever lived," such were her hard
thoughts of herself; "for I can bear to be
without him now, and, when he was with
me, I did not grieve for papa. Oh, is there
nothing real ? Does nothing last ? Or is it
only I who am so fickle and so wicked ?"

Thus did the lessened heart strive
against itself, and against the inevitable law
of human life. It was with feelings which
she could summon up in her memory all
her after days that Helen asked herself
whether, if she really had been Frank
Lisle's wife, she could ever have ceased to
love him ? If he had been faithful to her,
if the life they had pictured to themselves
had "come true," the life of the hard-working
artist, and his helpful, admiring, trustful
wife  what then? But Helen, for all her-dreams

and fancies, and for all her ignorance
of life, was not devoid of reasoning
faculties, and she was insensibly learning to
use them ; so she knew that she need not
torment herself with such a vain question,
for it was because Frank Lisle was not
"true" that the fabric of her fancy had
revealed itself as air woven, and had vanished
in the revelation.

And she? Was she false because she
could bear to live without him, because she
could lift her sorrow-bended head and
heavy eyes, and look out once more on the
fair world in which he had no more part
for her ? She knew very well, in her pure
heart, that she had loved loyally, with a
great humility too, and willingness to take
the lord of her life for its law in all things,
small and great, and there was something
beyond and different from the sad repining
of a love sorrow in the conviction that this
love was a dead thing, only fit to be buried
out of her sight, by no power to be raised

from that death, though she should wear
her weeds for it for ever.

The strangest thing about this mood of
Helen's to her own perception, was the way
it dealt with time. She seemed to have
lost the measurement of that ; between her
and the past there was a great gap, a gulf
with dim vapours floating up from its depths,
and she sometimes asked herself whether
the Helen Rhodes who now stood on the
near side of that gulf, was really the same
Helen Rhodes who had stood upon the far
side? She was still so young that she could
not but make of herself her chief occupation,
and her good friends made' all allowance
for this, while they tried to substitute
other interests.

For instance, Madame Morrison laughed
at Helen's French a good deal, (as she had
laughed at Jane's, when her niece left Miss
Jerdane's establishment), and proposed that
she should take lessons in the language.
And then she set her to learn some of the

lighter and easier details of her own business,
and she employed her occasionally to
write English letters for her. Helen took
to it all very kindly, and Jane proposed that
she should be called " Kate Nickleby," but an
objection to that sportive plan was raised
by Helen. Were Madame Morrison and
Jane prepared to become respectively Madame
Mantling and Miss Knag ? When
Helen propounded this query, with her old
smile, and brought the book and read the
Mantling scenes until the two girls cried
with laughter, Jane began to feel a comfortable
conviction that she would " do."

It was not very long before Helen, with
all the heartfelt acknowledgment of their
goodness to her that she could put into
words, and carefully fencing herself from
being supposed to think that any such
matter was in their thoughts, broached the
subject of doing something for herself.
Then there arose a discussion that might
have reminded the friends of that which

they had held at the Hill House on the day
when Helen had seen Mr. Townley Gore for
the first time. Helen maintained that she
should never be able to make herself sufficiently
useful to Madame Morrison to be of
any "real good" in the business; indeed,
she told Jane she was perfectly aware  for
she had found out a good deal from the
young ladies  that her own share was the
merest make-believe ; and she wanted Jane
to fulfil her promise of getting her employment
as a governess. She had now some
additional qualifications for that occupation,
but she was still disqualified by her too
good looks, her youth, and her sensitiveness.
That the incident which had made so
sad a difference in her life was one which
she was, or her friends on her behalf were,
required to regard as a drawback, never
entered Helen's mind, or Madame Morrison's
; the one was too innocent, the other
was too sensible. Jane had some difficulty
in persuading Helen to let the matter stand

over for discussion at a future time, and she
had only just gained her consent to this,
when the first interruption of Helen's isolation
from the past of her life took place.
Mr. Townley Gore's letter reached Madame
Morrison.

The terror with which her kind friend's
suggestion that this renewal of communications,
slight though it was, might lead to a
proposal for her restoration to the protection
of Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore, filled
Helen's heart, was accompanied by a scruple
of her mind. Was she not, by shrinking
from such a possibility, with the unqualified
dread that she had plainly displayed before
this scruple occurred to her, imposing upon
the generous kindness of Madame Morrison
? If Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore would
indeed receive her, had she any right to
reject this means of relieving Madame Morrison
from the charge of her ? That view
had not for a moment presented itself to
her generous friend, whose sole considerable.

II. T

tion was Helen's own advantage. After
fretting over it a great deal, Helen spoke to
her frankly, and the matter was set at rest
for her in a few sentences.

Of course," said Helen, " if they offered
to take me back, I must tell them the whole
truth. They would have a right to know
it ; except, I suppose, I should not be bound
to give up the names. I could not do that
on account both of  him  and his friend.
And then, I do not think Mrs. Townley Gore
would let me into her house."

"No, I suppose not," said Mrs. Morrison,
thoughtfully; "I never considered that necessity.
And I tell you this, Helen, once for
all," she added, with her characteristically
brisk and decided air, " if she had to be told,
and if she did agree to take you back, with
myconsentyou should never enter her house.
She was a detestable tyrant to you, when
there was nothing to blame you for  what
would she be with a secret to hold over
you ? No, no, ray dear, we may look upon

that matter as over and done with, and I am
heartily glad your conscience has made a
way of escape for mine.' ,

How glad Helen was, she could not have
told. Her eyes brightened ; her tread grew
lighter ; her needle flew more swiftly through
the light tasks that were set her ; she took
a livelier interest in the show-rooms, and disconcerted
Madame Morrison's ideas of her
want of taste  founded, not unreasonably, on
her doggedly English mourning  by some
very ingenious and original suggestions.
Indeed, the " treatment of jet" on Miss
Chevenix's gown which Mrs. Townley Gore
was so good as to admire, and so shrewd as
to recognise as a test of expense, was a
treatment " of Helen's devising. The impertinence
of the agent whom Madame Morrison
employed for the looking-up and 
of her unpunctual customers in London,
and who had found Miss Chevenix one
of the most unpunctual and impracticable of
the number, had been condoned by Beatrix,

t 2

when she found herself enabled to pay the
long out-standing bill.

Nobody dresses me like Morrison," said
Miss Chevenix, when she was arranging
matters with Mrs. Mabberley ; u and, after
all, I suppose these people have to be rude
sometimes to get their money."

"No doubt," assented Mrs. Mabberley,
with her usual obliging readiness.

It was September, a beautiful, mild September
with no chill upon it as yet, and the
woods at Chantilly, at St. Cloud, at St.
Germain, and elsewhere in the neighbourhood
of Paris, were putting on the autumn
tints that are so beautiful when one has not
English woods to look at, but which sink
into insignificance when one has. Madame
Morrison and her husband had made a
short excursion " aux eaux," but Jane and
Helen had not been away at all. There
was a great deal to be done at such an establishment
as Madame Morrison, even in
the slackest season, and Helen had got on

very well indeed with the correspondence.
Jane gave her a fair share of the work to do,
and she liked it. She was well, and, although
she would not have consented to
make the statement in words just then, she
frankly admitted afterwards, in looking back
upon that time, that she was happy.

A great many orders for England were on
hand. Madame Morrison's country-house
costumes were much admired, for she had
been in, at least, second-rate favour during
that wonderful time when visitors to the
beautiful arbitress of fashion took twelve
costumes to Compiegne, to be worn in three
days. Some of the orders were for wedding
trousseaux, and, in one instance, the
prospective wearer had come to Paris, and
was a good deal about Madame Morrison's.
She was a pretty, rather awkward English
girl, and Jane and Helen were quite interested
in her as she came, day by day, with
her fat, rich mamma, and had her mind expanded
and her taste corrected on the subject

of dress. Her name was Ellen Smith,
and she has nothing to do with this story,
except insomuch as she was the cause of
Helen's being placed in an absurd and embarrassing
position. The wedding order was
completed, the fat, rich mamma and her
pretty daughter, were about to seek once
more the white cliffs of Albion, and to spread
astonishment, not unmingled with envy,
among their female friends, for the dresses
were costly and beautiful, and the owners
were feasting their eyes on them previous to
packing, in the last of Madame Morrison's
three spacious and handsomely fitted-up
show-rooms. The doorways between the
rooms were draped with velvet of a dark
neutral tint, which did not " try " the
colours that had to be displayed, and velvet
divans lined the walls underneath the
mirrors.

Mrs. Smith and her daughter, Jane and
Helen in attendance upon them, were intent
upon business, in which all four seemed

interested, in the third room. Two dress-baskets
lined with spotless Holland, and
covered with shining leather, gaped open-hidden
for their splendid load, a part of which
was spread over the tables and heaped on the
divans, while the four ladies were eagerly
considering two objects on a chair within
easy range of the bride-elect's bright shy
eyes. Those objects were a large square
of very rich Brussels lace, and a wreath
of myrtle and orange-blossoms tastefully
composed.

Nothing could be more beautiful," said
the bride-elect, " only I never quite know
how a square veil should be worn, and
there's so much in the way a thing of that
kind is put on ; don't you think so ?"

Jane assented. The fat mamma wheezed,
and looked doubtful ; she had misgivings
about the Lancashire methods in such
matters.

It is quite easy," said Jane ; "I could
show you in a moment. It depends on

whether you wish to wear it thus or
thus."

She held a couple of fashion-plates, with
two happily impossible young women
simpering at their prayer-books depicted
on them, for Miss Smith's selection of a
method.

I am sure I could not look like either
of those," said Miss Smith, frankly, " my
head is too big and not the right shape.
Could you not show me some pretty way of
your own ?"

I think I can," said Jane, smiling ; she
liked this English girl. " Helen, your hair
is dressed quite rightly. If you will allow
me, Miss Smith, I will put the wreath and
veil on Miss Rhodes' head, and you can
judge of the effect."

This proposal was acceded to with eagerness.
Helen seated herself, and Jane, having
set the crown of flowers on her head, draped
around her slender, lissom figure, and folded
over her glossy, braided hair the rich, filmy

lace ; and then, bidding Helen stand up,
stepped back to observe the effect.

How extremely becoming !" said the
fat mamma.

How beautifully done !" said Miss
Smith. "Thank you so very much ; I quite
see it now. So simple ; only two long pins
and a little twist."

But at this moment Helen started violently
T , for in the long mirror before which
she was standing meekly and patiently, like
a lay-figure, she caught sight of a man's face
intently gazing at her image, and two voices
in the second room uttered simultaneous
exclamations of,

oh, oh r

Who is there?" said Jane, hurrying into
the second room, while Helen hastily took
the pins out of the veil and snatched the
wreath off her head.

I beg your pardon," said a gentleman,
to each of whose hands a pale-faced, little
girl was clinging, as she stood on tiptoe,

trying to see more of the lovely vision in
the next room. "I am afraid I have intruded,
but a young lady told me I should
find the representative of Madame Morrison
in the show-room, and I did not find anyone
in the first room, so I came on."

"I am Madame Morrison's niece," said Jane,
directing him by a polite gesture to retrace
his steps to the outer room, and accompanying
him thither, much against the will of the
children, who pulled at him spitefully, " and
I can attend to any business you may have
with her."

"My business with her is not on my own
account," said the gentleman, who had by
this time shaken off one of the children, and
removed his hat, and he smiled in a singularly
pleasant manner as he spoke. "I have
been sent here by my sister, and these little
ladies would come up with me. My sister
is Mrs. Masters ; she said Madame Morrison
would know all about it. She has, unfortunately,
sprained her ankle, and can't

get out, and she is anxious to see Madame
Morrison. I was to ask if it would be
possible for Madame Morrison to call upon
her."

Mrs. Masters from Chundrapore, I suppose,"
said Jane.

Yes ; come home on account of the
children. This is the address, madame,
Avenue du Bois de Boulogne"  he handed
Jane a card. " Will you have the kindness
to give my sister's message ?"

Jane took up the card when he had
bowed himself out of the room, and read
the name on it. The Paris address was
written underneath the following : " Mr.
Warrender, Chesney Manor."

CHAPTER XIV.

A PRIVATE VIEW.

nne end of September was at hand ; the
beautiful autumn was in its glory amid
the woods of Horndean, and the more extensive
ones of Chesney Manor. The
weather had been very fine during the
whole month, and the fresh sharpness in
the breeze, telling of the coming of " chill
October," was but a charm the more to
people who were young and strong, who
had not come to a regretful counting of their
autumns, and who might still take pleasure
in " a nipping and an eager air." Horn-dean
and its surroundings were beautiful
at all seasons, in a grave, rich, 

way, and in the autumn especially pleasant,
because of the great variety of trees,
whose foliage had to fall so splendidly', with
gradations of fine colour. Even Mrs. Townley
Gore, who was not enthusiastic about
nature, and usually suspected every place
out of doors, except a fashionable promenade,
of damp and spiders, was constrained
to admit that the woods were lovely, and
the sunsets extraordinarily fine that year.
Our sunsets," she called those evening
pageants, proprietorially.

September had been a success " all round"
at Horndean, and everyone was in high
good humour  Mr. Townley Gore, because
he had capital shooting, rooms in the aspect
that suited him best, and no gout ; his wife,
because things were going smoothly in the
grooves which she approved, and the allegorical
crumpled rose-leaf had not made
itself felt; Mr. Horndean of Horndean, for
certain reasons that will presently appear ;
and Miss Chevenix, because she had, of all,

the most solid grounds for satisfaction. The
other guests, who came and went during the
month, had been judiciously selected. Of
the women, there was not one who could
rival her, or who felt inclined to attempt todo
so. Of the men, there was not one who
did not admire her, or who admired her too
ardently.

Mr. Horndean did not know or care a
great deal about these people ; he had been
so much away, he explained to Miss Cleve
that he had lost the thread .of society,
so to speak.

"People die," he said, "or go under in
one way or another, except quite the very
big people of the world, who are kept
perpetually in sight, and all their doings
registered. I consider this my brother-in-law's
year, and that I am in training."

He was taking his training very well,
Beatrix thought, and she wondered what
had been the history of that wild time
when Mrs. Townley Gore was afflicted

with a "troublesome" brother. He was
an unusually amenable one now, at all
events, and except that he had occasional
fits of depression  which did not proceed
from ennui, Beatrix felt sure, and which
she therefore imputed to importunate
recollections  there was nothing to indicate
that he had passed through a " stormy "
youth.

Frank Lisle was still at Horndean when
September was nearing its end. He was
going to Florence for the winter, and he
had, for a while, cherished the hope that
his friend might be induced to accompany
him.

Settling down was all very well, of
course, in Mr. Lisle's opinion, if one did
not carry it too far ; but to settle down to
an English winter, even under the exceptional
advantages which would attend
that operation when performed at Horn-dean,
would be to carry it very much too
far.

In vain did Mr. Horndean represent to
him that he ought not to confound an
English " with a London winter in a
general and sweeping condemnation. Frank
Lisle would not listen to any fair but futile
distinctions. He could not get through a
winter without sunshine. He did not mind
the cold winds or the absence of " comforts"
abroad. He had never had many, and,
though he knew them when he saw them,
he did not miss them when he did not see
them. There was no sunshine in England
at that season, and no colour, so he must be
off.

He speedily relinquished the hope of
inducing Mr. Horndean to go to Florence
with him ; for in his jolly, light-hearted
way Mr. Lisle was a sensible person, and
never thought of contending against a
woman's influence. Mr. Horndean, he
knew, was in love with Miss Chevenix, and
unless by a freak of fortune, which he felt
would be too good for him to deserve, she

was to take it into her head that the city of
flowers would be pleasant than the city of
fogs, there would be no chance of getting
his friend to go there.

This melancholy consideration somewhat
dashed the spirits of Mr. Lisle, and as he
did not come round from his first impression
respecting Beatrix, but still disliked
almost as much as he admired her, he had
no very bright anticipations for the future.

Horndean, with Beatrix for its mistress,
would not be a tempting place of sojourn
to him, and he roamed about the gardens
and the woods during those last days, sometimes
extending his rambles to Chesney
Manor, while the other men were shooting
an occupation which Mr. Lisle held in
aversion  or he shut himself up in his
painting-room and worked vigorously.

On Mr. Lisle's working days he did not
appear at breakfast, and then Mr. Horndean
would invade him before he set about the
business or the pleasure of the day, and

VOL. II. u

they would have a pleasant talk together.
There was no external symptom of a slackening
of their friendship, such as Mr. Lisle
ruefully foreboded from what he called
"the wiles of the red-headed witch," but it
was not without significance that they had
left off discussing Miss Chevenix. Mr.
Horndean was frankly communicative on
every other subject ; not even excepting his
sister. He would say to Mr. Lisle, in the
easiest way, that it amused him very much
to observe how his altered position had, to
use the expressive Irish phrase, made " a
white-headed boy*' of him in the sight of
Mrs. Townley Gore ; and he would dwell
with a grim humour upon sundry past episodes
in the joint experience of himself and
his friend, when it would have been useful
and consoling to have had a stock of sisterly
sympathy to draw upon, such as he
might confidently resort to at present.
And I don't think I'm a better fellow,"

he added, after one of these retrospects.

Perhaps not, bat you're ever so much
better off," answered Mr. Lisle, with simple
seriousness, pausing in his work and drawing
his head well back to get a good view
of the object he was painting. "You were
a considerable nuisance in those old times,
which, upon my word, I often suspect you
of regretting ; and it is not like you, you
know. I should always have hated this
sort of thing, to own it, I mean, and have
the what-do-you-call-'ems of property as
well as the thingumies ; but you never could
do without money, and a lot of it too ; and
that's why I don't understand your being so
dismal sometimes. There ! The organ
comes in beautifully. I flatter myself I've
got the right old-leather tone and greasiness
about the strap. Now, if I could only get
a monkey to sit for his portrait !"

Had the man a monkey ?" asked Mr.
Horndean, who was well used to his friend's

u2

discursiveness, and never minded his ending
a dialogue a thousand miles from its
starting-point.

No, he hadn't ; but he ought to have
had. Why, an organ is nothing without
a monkey in a blue frock and a flat red cap.
I think the waltzing marionettes are a great
improvement also, but I can't draw on my
imagination for that fact in this instance, as
my i grinder ' is in ' an attitude of repose,'
that is, fast asleep."

Haven't you idealised him, Frank ?"

"Not a bit of it; he was a very good-looking
fellow, but a foul-mouthed rascal.
I have only idealised his clothes ; they were
too clean and too British  regular slops 
so I have given him a touch of the Savoyard
dirt and finery. There you are ! Now I'm
ready for the private view. The ladies are
coming at three o'clock to look at ' Motley
Green at Noontide.' Sweet name, isn't it ?
so we must clear up here, Fred."

At three o'clock, Mrs. Townley Gore

being detained by visitors, Mr. Horndean
persuaded Miss Chevenix to go with him
to the private view.

"Lisle is such an impatient fellow," he
said, libelling the absent artist without
scruple; "he can't bear to be kept
waiting."

In spite of this assertion, Miss Chevenix
was not very much surprised to find that
Mr. Lisle was not in his painting-room.

The picture, with a sheet thrown over
it, was placed on an easel in the proper
light, and two old tapestry chairs, rightly
considered by Mr. Horndean's housekeeper
quite good enough for such a
scene of " muddle " as Mr. Lisle's sanctum,
had been dusted after a rudimentary
fashion, and placed in front of the canvas.

To crowd everything that could be got
out of the way into one corner, and barricade
the heap with a big table, was Mr.
Lisle's notion of 'clearing up," and he had
carried it out.

Beatrix looked around her with amused,
slightly contemptuous curiosity, and, having
seated herself in one of the old chairs, said
to Mr. Horndean :

"Take that thing off, and let us see the
picture."

No, no," objected Mr. Horndean ;.
u Frank would never forgive me. He will
be here presently. I daresay he has only
gone for flowers, or to fetch his cat  to look
at a queen. We must wait for him."

He spoke rather hurriedly ; he was in
high spirits. She was smiling, composed,
and looking remarkably handsome. A
subtle change had passed of late over the
beauty of Beatrix Chevenix ; there was a
softer lustre in the diamond-bright eyes,
and the smile that had formerly failed to
touch the keen lines about the finely-curved
red lips had a flickering sweetness quite new
to any expression of her face. When she
was alone, now, she had many troubled
thoughts, and there was one in particular

that filled her with perplexity, and would
stick to her with a pertinacity almost
bewildering, in spite of her firm will and
resolute habit of looking facts in the face;
but, nevertheless, she had a source of happiness
within herself. The dreariness of her
godless and self-centred life was changed
for a vital interest, and for a hope, in which,
although there were restless and threatening
elements, there was undreamed-of
sweetness. This hope was at its full tide
within her breast as she met the gaze that
accompanied the words of the young man
who was looking at her as if her fair face
were a vision of heaven, and knew what his
next words would be. Why they were
spoken then and there, Mr. Horndean
could not have told  there was no lack of
opportunity in the social life at Horndean,
nor would he have been slow to make it if
there had been  but now, for the first time,
he silenced a scruple that had hitherto withheld
him, he gave every doubt, every consideration

to the winds of chance, and
answered the smile, queenly, not coquettish,
with which Beatrix received his compliment,
by an ardent declaration of his love.

You knew it, my lady and queen," he
said, as he knelt before her unrebuked, and
taking her unresisting hands, kissed them
passionately. " From the moment I first
saw you, my love, my life have been yours.
Will you take them ? Tell me, Beatrix ?"

She did not answer him in words, but
he was satisfied ; the hands he tightly held
returned the pressure of his, her head drooped,
her breast heaved, a deep blush suffused
her face. That moment of strong and true
emotion had renewed the girlhood of the
beautiful worldling, who had had no chance
of better things. This was the only man
she had ever loved, and he was at her feet.
Another moment, and she was in his arms,
and there was no past and no future, only
that ineffable now ; and in all the wide
world, for those two, only themselves.

The wonder of it ! The triumph of it !
With the beauty and the brilliancy of
Beatrix there had always been something
that had kept Mr. Horndean at a distance,
even in his thoughts ; a certain stateliness
and finish of manner  for to him, as he did
not ruffle her irritable temper, she had
never been rude, abrupt, or disdainful  and
the air of a woman perfectly versed in the
ways of a world with which his own
acquaintance was fitful and not profound.
And now, that queenly head lay upon his
breast with a strange meekness, and the
thick, up-curved lashes that hid the bright
eyes, with a new and beautiful softness in
them, were wet with such tears as Beatrix
Chevenix had never before shed ; happy,
shy, girlish tears of love, avowal, and surrender.
The superficial nature of the man,
who had wasted and made havoc of such
power of feeling deeply and nobly as he
had ever possessed, was also touched by
something far below the surface. A keen,

extraordinary pang of remembrance and remorse
wrung his heart, as it beat high under
the cheek, smooth and pure as a blush-rose
leaf, resting upon it; amid the tumult of his
feelings the still small voice protested, and
was heard ; and he made to it a soundless
answer, in vicarious penitence.

I will be true to this woman who loves
me ; she shall be happy ; so help me
Heaven ?"

Frank Lisle did not come in ; Mrs, Townley
Gore's visitors still detained her ; the
lovers had the painting-room to themselves
for a whole hour  a precious hour, a blessed
hour, Mr. Horndean called it ; and that was
time enough in which to settle their plans
for the immediate future. Standing by the
half-shaded window of the painting-room,
supported by her lover's encircling arm,
Beatrix looked out upon the fair domain
that stretched before her, and felt an exultant
conviction that she had risen superior
to her own design. She had, indeed, intended

to marry Mr. Horndean before she
had even thought whether she could love
him. Love had no place in her calculations,
in that time which now seemed to have
rolled back to an immeasurable distance,
and to be of no account at all. She might
forgive herself for that, she might forget it
to herself, for she loved him  loved him so
well, that she could allow herself the full
luxury of knowing that there was in her heart
no thought of anything but him, no sense
of triumph in a successful scheme, nothing
but the one pure joy of womanhood's highest
privilege. For that brief hour, at least,
the blind had a yearning for sight, and the
deaf for hearing. If Beatrix Chevenix
could have got at the notion of God, she
would have thanked Him.

They were talking of her approaching
departure from Horndean.

I wish I knew Sir Edward Vane," said
Mr. Horndean, C I might manage to get
myself asked to Temple Vane ; but I know

very few of the county people. I never
cared about it until now. When your visit
there is over, you will come here again?
My own love, say you will, and that I may
tell my sister before then."

The first shadow fell upon Beatrix. The
remembrance of her compact with Mrs.
Mabberley crossed her mind for the first
time since she had stepped over the boundary
of the common world, hand in hand
with her lover, and into the enchanted land.
What must she say to him ? How must
she tell him that her actions were not free,
and yet not tell him how or why ? In a
moment she was brought back from the enchanted
land to the common world, and to
the fetters which she had been so incredibly
foolish and short-sighted as to impose upon
herself.

Beatrix was very clear-headed, but it
would have been unnatural had she been
able to look at the position "all round,"

and to remember, just then, that it was
the expedient by which Mrs. Townley Gore
and people in general were deceived, that
had procured her present happiness and
future prospects for her. It was more thana
shadow that fell upon her; a cold thrill
of vague and shapeless fear passed over her,
and her lover looked at her anxiously.

Waiting for her reply, she forced herself
to answer him in her usual tone :

"I am not sure what I shall be able todo
after Temple Vane, and your sister will
not be here."

1 am sure she will remain to oblige me,
especially when she knows. It would be
so delightful, and so much nicer than town,
unless you were at Kaiser Crescent. Your
Mrs. Mabberley might not like to be
troubled with me, and I really could not
promise not to be troublesome. "

Beatrix smiled, not very readily or
brightly.

But you must not be troublesome, and
Mrs. Townley Gore must not know for the
present."

u My sister must not know ! Why ?"

For one second Beatrix hesitated. Should
she answer this question with the imperious
manner that Mr. Horndean knew so well 
though she did not direct it against himself
and make him understand that such washer
will, and he had merely to conform toit?
This, standing on such slippery ground
as she did, might be a wise initiative ; or
should she take a more womanly, more
winning attitude? She decided quick as
thought, and, turning her magical eyes upon
him, she said,

Because my Mrs. Mabberley, as you call
her, has a prior claim to know ; because I
owe her much, and especially consideration
for her little foibles ; because jealousy is one
of them. I suppose you know nothing of
such a weakness ; but she would be deeply
hurt and offended if anyone were to know

until after she had been told. Remember,
Frederick, she is the only person in the
world who even imitates relationship tome
; I am quite alone. I owe her all
affectionate observance."

That Mr. Horndean should assure her, in
the words that every lover uses, that she
was an angel, was a matter of course. He
went on to dwell with appropriate rapture
upon the termination of her state of isolation,
telling her in fervent words and withall
the earnestness of the very strongest
of his "fits," as Mr. Lisle called his love-affairs,
that he valued the position and the
fortune which had come to him, solely because
they were not wholly unworthy of
being offered to her, to whom, however, all
the wealth and honours of the world could
lend no beauty, no power that was not her
own already. He would implicitly obey
her ; not until she gave him permission
would he tell his sister that he had won the
prize of his life ; their engagement should

be a dear, delightful, precious secret for the
present, but would not Beatrix promise tolet
Mrs. Mabberley know soon ? To this
Beatrix replied that he must leave that to
her. Mrs. Mabberley, for all her quiet
insignificance, was an oddity ; and oddities,
even when by chance they were amiable,
were notoriously hard to manage. They
would still have a few days of each other's
society before Beatrix would have to go to
Vane Court.

And now," said Beatrix, with a smile,
to which all the radiance had returned, for
she was relieved and reassured by the ease
with which her lover had accepted her
sentimental explanation, "do you not think
we had better give Mr. Lisle up and retire
from this very unusual private view? Mrs.
Townley Gore has forgotten all about the
picture, evidently. I think I must go to her
now."

I suppose so," he said, reluctantly ; and
they were turning from the window, when

they perceived Frank Lisle coining across
an open space of smoothly-rolled lawn in
the shrubbery, on which the painting-room
looked, at tremendous pace, and with his
soft hat in his hand.

He caught sight of them, waved his hat,
darted round the end of the house, and in
two minutes was in the room. He found
Beatrix seated in one of the tapestry chairs,
in her usual attitude of graceful composure
and unconcern, and Mr. Horndean turning
over some sketches with an attentiveness that
was perhaps a little overdone.

I beg your pardon a thousand times,
Miss Chevenix," said Frank Lisle. u I am
so distressed at having kept you waiting,
and much obliged to you for waiting so
long. Mrs. Townley Gore could not wait,
of course."

He was busy with the easel, and the
conscious pair exchanged meaning looks.
Neither explained, both accepted the situation.
Was there ever a pair of lovers who

VOL. II. x

would not have done precisely the same
thing?

But what on earth detained you, Frank?"
inquired Mr. Horndean.

Quite an adventure. I thought I should
like to put in a monkey ; you know we
talked of it this morning  you'll see why
presently, Miss Chevenix  and I remembered
that Mr. Osborne's boys have one, and
thought I would go and have a look at him.
So I went ; but when 1 got to the rectory
I found the monkey was dead, and I was
coming back quite disconsolate, but in good
time for the private view, when I witnessed
a very sad accident. It was near the postoffice
in the village ; a very pretty little
white dog ran across the road just as
Bracken's cart  Bracken is the butcher,
Miss Chevenix, and his boy is a demon 
came tearing down the hill. In an instant
the little dog was under the wheels, and I
saw at once that it was terribly hurt. The

demon pulled up at sight of me, I picked
up the dog, and two little girls ran towards
me, screaming. The dog was theirs, and
the children were quite frantic with grief.
I am a little bit of a surgeon, as you know,
Fred, and I saw the poor thing's leg was
broken, but I thought I could manage it, so
I adjourned with my patient, the children,
and their governess, who was nearly as
much upset as they were, to the post-office,
where we were hospitably received. I set
the little dog's leg, consoled the children
and their governess, got a basket, put the
invalid into it, chartered a boy to carry the
basket, under severe pains and penalties, to
the abode of my young friends  and  here
I am. Now for the private view."

Wait a minute, Frank. Where do the
children and the dog live ?"

Upon my word I never asked. They
went up the road from the village. That is
all I know."

x2

He uncovered the picture.

"That, Miss Chevenix, is 'Notley Green
at Noontide.' "

A village green, with a group of noble
elms ; on a bench beneath the great branches,
a man, sleeping, his uncovered head resting
against the trunk of one of the trees. On
the ground at his feet a barrel-organ. A
very good picture, good drawing, good
colours, light and shade admirably expressive,
very telling. Miss Chevenix admires
it much, but she is almost startled by it,
too, for the sleeping organ-grinder presents
a striking resemblance to Mr. James
A Ramsden.

Where did you get your model, Mr.
Lisle?" she asked.

Just where you see him, Miss Chevenix,
asleep under the elms on Notley Green."

CHAPTER I.

TEMPLE VANE.

M

Miss CHEVENIX thankfully availed
herself of the hour of solitude in her
own room before dinner, which the comfortable
custom of Horndean secured to her;
she wanted to think, after so much mere
feeling.

A bright, wood fire was burning on
the hearth, the burnished brass clogs were
winking in the cheer, crackling flame ; the
autumnal evening chill was excluded by the

VOL. Ill, b

thick damask curtains; the large and lofty
room, with its carved oak panels and ancient
tapestry, its high mantelpiece in oak, surmounted
by the escutcheon of the Charles
its great carved and plumed bedstead,
large enough to fill a modern room, and on
which lay a satin coverlet of cunning needlework
which would have rejoiced the soul of
South Kensington, had a look of perfect
comfort and repose. Beatrix lighted the
candles on her dressing-table, and seated
herself, with a slight shiver, by the fire.

There was a strange trouble in her
thoughts, mixing itself up with her happiness
and her love ; a trouble that was not
the great one besetting her. She would,
however, put it aside, until she had
thoroughly considered the position of her
own affairs.

She was happy ; it was necessary to settle
that with herself beyond all doubt. She
had secured that which she held to be
essential to happiness, and she loved the

man who was to bestow it all upon her 
loved him with a passionate fulness of love
that might almost have moved her to self-sacrifice,
had that been called for, and had
she known what it meant. She allowed
the conviction, the deep enjoyment of this
sentiment to fill all her heart and mind fora
while ; it was the first time she had ever
been happy in a feeling given to another ;
and then she turned her thoughts to the
love she had won. Could she trust it ?
Was it as true and firm as it was passionate
? Supposing she were to tell the truth ;
supposing she broke with Mrs. Mabberley,
defied her; acknowledged to Mr. Horndean
that her present life was a sham, and that
she had entered upon the deception with a
view to a "good" marriage, what then?
Would he believe that she really loved him,
or would he see in himself only the dupe
that she had, before she knew him, intended
him to be? Was her power over him, the
spell of her rare and splendid beauty, potent

b2

enough to induce him to accept all the
truth, to put it behind him for ever, and to
trust her in that future for which, in her
blind, untaught way, she formed resolutions
not without some nobleness. She loved
him; she would make him happy; they
would enjoy life together. Yes, she thought,
as the hurried, eager, passionate words he
had spoken recurred delightfully to her,
and the new softness once more diffused
itself over her face ; she might tell him the
truth, and be done for ever with this horrid
sham, in which there was something that
inspired her with an indefinable fear which
no reasoning with herself could dispel, and
that had grown upon her strangely this very
day.

She rose and paced the room, checking
off the points of her position, and every
instant gaining in resolution, when she remembered,
with a sudden shock, Mrs.
Townley Gore ! To tell Mr. Horndean the
truth, to trust to his clemency, was quite

another thing from allowing the facts to
become known to his sister. She knew
her too well to trust her in circumstances
that would call for the exercise of generosity
; their mutual regard was a mere matter
of social convenience, and she had been the
most carefully deceived of Beatrix's friends,
because she was the only one from deceiving
whom she had derived downright
amusement. What would Mrs. Townley
Gore do? And how far would Mr. Horn-dean
be influenced by his sister ? Beatrix
had the rare faculty of looking at things,
when she was in earnest, with the eyes of
her judgment, unobscured by her personal
wishes, and she was constrained to answer
these two questions very much to her own
disadvantage. Mrs. Townley Gore knew
more of her mind than anyone ; from her
Beatrix had never concealed her cynicism,
and she would scoff at the idea of there being
any reality in her love for Frederick, if she
knew that she was a penniless adventuress.

As for her influence with Frederick, it was
evidently great ; and, backed by the arguments
which she could adduce to prove to
him that he was only a dupe, it might outweigh
the charms that had caught his
volatile fancy.

Beatrix well remembered how, in Frederick's
troublesome days, Mrs. Townley Gore
had dwelt upon his inconstancy and utter
want of principle where women were concerned.


Want of principle " was one of those
phrases that Beatrix regarded as jargon,,
but she took the thing it meant into consideration
when it concerned herself. A storm
of doubt and difficulty arose in her mind,
and might have been traced upon her face.

No ; she must not place herself at the
mercy of Mrs. Townley Gore. She must at
all events temporise ; making use in the
meantime of all the power which her secret
understanding with Frederick would give
her to win him completely to herself, and

so secure her empire over him that she
should have nothing to fear. The present
would be too soon. This conclusion
brought her relief, and she was able to
think of the happiness of the moment. To
meet Frederick as his affianced wife, in
the presence of others, the precious secret
being all their own, had a charm for
Beatrix's naturally secretive disposition.
She was glad that the dinner-party was to
be a rather large one ; she would take additional
pains with her dress ; he should
think her more than ever beautiful. She
looked around her at her room and all its
handsome contents, with a new and pleasant
sense of proprietorship ; it would be
delightful to go down presently and take
her place among the guests, where she was
ere Ions; to be hostess, and to know that
her lover would be thinking just the same
thoughts.

Beatrix rang for her maid, and put herself
into her hands at once. She rarely

spoke after she had given her directions briefly
; it was a new experience for her attendant
to find her changing her mind about
her gown, and dissatisfied with the arrangement
of her hair. And as Benson's successor
was by no means a machine, and, for
reasons of her own, felt more than ordinary
curiosity about her mistress, she permitted
herself to wonder what it was that Miss
Chevenix's thoughts were so intent upon,
afterwards, as she sat before the mirror,
looking at her own image as though she saw
it not, while her new maid's quick fingers
braided the bright tresses, and formed them
into a diadem upon her head. It was
something that caused her to frown almost
as darkly as Mrs. Townley Gore herself
could frown ; it was something that sent an
angry flush up into her red hair, and over
her white neck ; it was the sudden suggestion
of her common sense that, under any
circumstances, she must have had a similar
difficulty to encounter, on succeeding in

securing the "good" marriage that was the
avowed object of the compact bat ween Mrs.
Mabberley and herself, and Mrs. Mabberley
must have known that ! Her own shortsightedness
now seemed to her wonderful.
In short-sightedness on Mrs. Mabberley's
part she did not believe. Whatever was to
be the result, or the termination, of the bargain
between them, she was quite sure Mrs.
Mabberley had seen and calculated it. She
remembered the exact words of the offer
made to her.

I propose that you should come and
live in my house, where everything shall
be made agreeable for you, that you consult
me with regard to your movements, cultivate
the people whom I recommend, accept
the invitations that I select ; and undertake,
if you get a good offer of marriage, to fix
the time for your marriage at my dictation."

She remembered as distinctly the advantages
she was to gain by acceding to these
terms. It seemed to her that she could

now hear the even, low tones of Mrs. Mab-barley's
voice as she set thei forth.

I will hold over my own claims on your
father's estate ; and I will make an arrangement
with the other creditors that will free
you from any annoyance. If you agree to
my terms 1 will enable you to maintain,
until you shall have made a suitable marriage,
precisely the same appearance as
before, so that all the world may take you
for the inheritor of your father's fortune,
to whom his death has made no external
difference."

The dilemma of the present was, then,
prepared for her from the first, and she had
not seen that ! The day of reckoning had
not entered into her calculations. But the
woman who had made her this perfidious
offer, the woman who held her in chains of
slavery, none the less real because she could
neither grasp nor define them ; what washer
meaning ? She could not tell, she had
not the slightest clue to it. A cold and

sickly feeling of dread crept into the heart
of Beatrix, and from thence to her nerves.
She shivered under the maid's dexterous
hands, and that observant woman knew as
well as she did that the shiver was from
within, not from without. Mademoiselle
was cold, no doubt, and tired, she said, but
there, it was done. Had mademoiselle ever
seen her own head looking better, more

CD i

distinguished, more entirely in the style that
became her? Beatrix threw off her preoccupation
with a resolute effort. Of these
things and all that attached to them, she
would think at night ; for the present she
would put them from her, and look beautiful
with all her might. Her face was her
fortune ; it remained to be seen whether
she was solvent. This was a strange mood
in which to meet her newly-affianced lover,
in their solitude a deux in the midst of a
crowd, but Beatrix brought her strong will
to bear upon it, and when she entered the
long gallery, richly dressed, and with her

accustomed air of self-possession and dignity,
it was no wonder that Mr. Horndean's heart
swelled with triumph as he looked at her,
and said to himself, " She is the fairest woman
in the world, and she is mine."

That evening was one continuous triumph
for Beatrix. She had not over-estimated in
her fancy the pleasure which the secret understanding
between Frederick and herself
would give her ; every word, every look
was fraught with a subtle delight. Never
had she seen him so agreeable, so handsome,
so entirely free from ennui, so attentive to
everybody, so desirous to please. Once or
twice she fancied Mrs. Townley Gore was
very observant of her brother, and wondered
whether she was tracing to their true
source the pride and happiness that were
legible on his face, and audible in his voice ;
but, even if it were so, his sister was not
displeased. The lovers had not much time
for talking together during the evening, for
the general eagerness to hear Beatrix sing

was not to be resisted by her in her high
good-humour, and so fine was her singing
that night, so full of expression and true
melody, that Frank Lisle, always impressionable,
quarrelled with himself about her,
and protested to himself that he was a
churl to dislike her as he had hitherto done.
Fred is safe to marry her," so ran his
thoughts, " and with such colouring, and
such a voice, there must be good in her."

When Beatrix was alone in her room, the
elation of the evening quickly passed away,
and she returned to her vexed thoughts.
Should she write to Mrs. Mabberley then
and there, and tell her that the compact
between them must be explained or broken ?
She knew in her heart this would bethe
wisest course, but she had not the courage
to adopt it. Love, in whose lordliness
she had never believed, had taken full possession
of her; an extraordinary timidity
had also come to her. The worst would be
so infinitely bad to face that she must at

least delay about facing it. For the first
time in her life Beatrix Chevenix submitted
to the vague and unknown, rather than confront
the thing she feared.

Early on the next day but one, Beatrix
left Horndean on a visit to Sir Edward and
Lady Vane. The carriage in which she was
to be conveyed to the railway-station, accompanied
by Mr. Horndean and his sister,
was at the door, and Mr. Townley Gore
and Frank Lisle were exchanging farewells
with the departing guest, when Miss Chevy
maid, handing a dressing-bag to the
footman, said to him :

"Tell me, then; I have understood ill;
which of these gentlemen is Mr. Horndean?"

Why, that one, coming down with Miss
Chevenix, of course, mademoiselle."

"And the other?"

"The other is Mr. Lisle."

"Your master, then, is not a painter?"

Certainly not. What can you bethinking
of, mademoiselle ?"

Nothing. Never mind. I don't know."

In his daily letters to Beatrix Mr, Horn-dean
urged her to arrange with Mrs. Mab-barley
for her return to Horndean, and assured
her that his sister would be glad [to
meet his wishes with respect to her plans
for the winter. This constituted the one
drawback to the pleasure with which she received
his letters, for she remained unable
to make up her mind about her course of
proceeding towards Mrs. Mabberley. The
country house at which she was now staying,
was a much more lively one than

Horndean. Sir Edward and Lady Vane

j

were fond of company, and never happy in
the country unless their house was as full as
it could be, without inconveniencing their
guests, and they were indefatigable in
providing amusement for their successive
parties. Stiff people, whose own houses
were deadly dull, and their own solemn
grandeur indisputable, were given to talk of

the " mixture" that was to be encountered
at Temple Vane, but they were very glad
to be invited to meet the mixture, and Sir
Edward and his wife laughed at them.
Young people were delighted to go to Temple
Vane, for there was always something
pleasant to do, and generally some one interesting
to see. Vane was capitally situated,
in a good and populous neighbourhood,
and the dances, private theatricals, garden-parties,
and picnics, which Lady Vane was
never tired of organising, according to the
season and the weather, were always pertain
to be successful entertainments. Beatrix
was a favourite with Sir Edward and Lady
Vane, and, under ordinary circumstances,
she liked a visit to Temple Vane well enough.
She was considered a great acquisition there,
because, as Lady Vane was in the habit
of saying, Miss Chevenix could do anything
act, play, sing, dance, recite, and promote
the general amusement better than anybody
else, and then she could be so charming

when she chose. The latter faculty is always
a strong card to play in society, providing,
of course, one is a person of some
importance -the monotony of uniform amiability
has not a chance in competition with
it.

The easy, joyous atmosphere of the
place pleased her, and she enjoyed the
sense of superiority to the "mixture."
There was nothing changed in the state
of things at Temple Vane this time, and yet
the place and the people bored her, and
Lady Vane's programme seemed to her simple
weariness. All but one item. Lady Vane
had issued cards for a fancy ball, to come
off on the morrow of some races that were
to take place in the neighbourhood, and the
eve of her own departure from Temple Vane
for London, en route to the continent. It
had been agreed with Mrs. Mabberley that
Beatrix should return to London on that
occasion from Temple Vane, and it was this
arrangement that Mr. Horndean had so ure

III. c

gently entreated her to set aside in his own
and his sister's favour.

When Lady Vane told her of the projected
ball, and also mentioned that she
should be very much overdone with women,
Beatrix saw her way to gratifying her lover's
wish, and very quickly elicited a request
from Lady Vane that she would write in
her name to ask Mr. Horndean and Mr.
Lisle to the ball. Would they mind the
distance ? Lady Vane asked, but Miss
Chevenix assured her on that point. Mr.
Horndean gladly accepted the invitation for
himself and his friend, who was in London,
preparing for his foreign tour, but would
come down for the occasion, and he besought
Beatrix to return under their escort
to Horndean. At this point Beatrix could
no longer procrastinate ; she was forced to
come to a resolution. She wrote to Mrs.
Mabberley in the following terms :

Mr. Horndean has proposed to me. I
have accepted him. The object with which

I agreed to the arrangement between you
and myself is gained. What your motive
was I know now no more than I knew it at
first ; but I suppose, as you looked forward
to this, that it too will be satisfied. I do
not know how my real position is to be explained,
although I have never made any
positive statements as to whether my father
did or did not leave me an independence,
and this creates a great difficulty for me,
one which I think I have a right to ask you
to solve ; for you must have always foreseen
it. It did not occur to my mind until the
circumstances arose. I bear in mind the
terms of our compact ; I fix no time for my
marriage until I know your pleasure. Will
you let me know it with as little delay as
possible ? Mr. Horndean wishes me to
return to Horndean, where his sister, still
in ignorance of our engagement, will remain
to receive me. I have not answered him ;
in this matter also I await your directions."
Airs. Mabberley did not keep Beatrix

c2

very long in suspense. Her answer was
received by return of post.

It was this :

It is impossible for me to discuss the
subject of your letter in writing. I wish
you to adhere to the arrangements already
made."

-Beatrix was obliged to acquiesce, but her
pride revolted against the thraldom in which
she was held, and her eager fancy leaped
at the prospect of release by the hand of
the man whom she loved.

The night fixed for Lady Vane's fancy
ball arrived, a mild, starlit night in October.
The preparations were on a splendid scale,
for Temple Vane was a fine old house, and
the hospitality of Sir Edward and Lady
Vane was of the profuse order.

Among the earliest of the arrivals were
Mr. Horndean and Frank Lisle. The
former had eyes for Beatrix only ; the
latter was full of interest in and admiration
of a scene very novel to him.

Beatrix looked superbly handsome as a
Heine blanche of old French history, in the
spotless white of royal mourning, one of
Madame Morrison's most tasteful productions,
and wearing the beautiful necklace
and bracelets of pearls with clasps of fine
diamonds, which had been her mothers, and
now formed her only wealth. Her magnificent
hair was partly concealed by the
coif, and this lent a strangeness to her
appearance that captivated Mr. Horndean
anew.

I have never seen you so beautiful," he
whispered, as he claimed her for their first
dance, and Beatrix, to whom admiration in
every form of expression was as familiar as
the air she breathed, heard the words with
the fresh and trembling pleasure of the
merest girl.

It was late before Frank Lisle's turn to
claim a dance from the undisputed belle of
the ball arrived, and he had much to say,
and was very amusing.

After a while, however, he paused, and
seemed to forget what he had been talking
about, and Beatrix, observing the direction
of his intent gaze, followed it with her own.

Mr. Lisle was looking at a tall man in
the dress of a Spanish grandee, whom Beatrix
recognised, with equal surprise and
displeasure.

"It seems impossible," said Frank Lisle,
' and yet, Miss Chevenix, can you tell me
who that man is, in the short cloak, with
the black velvet hose, and a rapier?"

Yes, I know him slightly ; that is, I
have seen him once before. His name is
Ramsden ; he is the son of Colonel Ramsden."


Is he ? Well, it's very odd ; but if he
is not also the original of my picture  you
remember the private view  I'm a Dutchman
! Not that I should mind being a
Dutchman, if my name were Cuyp, or
Teniers. He is coming this way to speak
to you."

Let us go on," said Beatrix, and she
stepped into the whirl again ; "I don't want
to speak to Mr. Ramsden if I can avoid it."

She could not avoid it, though, for when
she made her way to Lady Vane, she found
Mr. Ramsden by her side, and he spoke to
her with an easy assumption of acquaintanceship,
and asked her for a dance. This
she refused in so cold and ungracious a
manner that there was no mistaking her
intention.

He gave her one look, in which she
might have read a menace she would do
well to avert, fell back, and allowed her to
pass on.

How came that man here ?" she said
to herself. " By whom is he introduced ?
I don't believe Lady Vane knows him.
And why does the sight of him frighten
me ? Has he the evil eye, as the duchess
says, and has he thrown me a 4 sort ' ?
What nonsense ! He is merely an underbred
person with an unpleasant way of

looking at one, and objectionable to me
because he is a pet of Mrs. Mabberley's."

Mr. Horndean joined her, and she soon
forgot Mr. Ramsden, who did not recall
himself to her remembrance. Neither did
Frank Lisle see him again. He had pointed
him out to Mr. Horndean, and he remarked
that he did not seem quite easy under their
scrutiny.

I don't wonder at it, Frank," said Mr.
Horndean, " for your artist's eye is certainly
a piercer."

Very soon, dearest, you promise me ?"
said Frederick to Beatrix, in a whisper, ashe
bade her farewell, and she repeated
Very soon " with a glance and a smile that
might have sent a more exacting lover away
content.

Mr. Horndean and Mr. Lisle stayed that
night at the inn in the little town, and, by
a remarkable coincidence, they found themselves
at the railway-station on the following
day just as the party from Temple Vane

arrived. They had ten minutes to spare
before the starting of the " up " train, and
Mr. Horndean made the most of them. Sir
Edward was a traveller of the fussy order,
and wanted to speak to everybody about
the place. Mr. Horndean ventured to whisper
to Frank, " Talk to Lady Vane, like a
good fellow," and Beatrix talked apart with
him. A quantity of luggage was piled upon
the platform, and a couple of men-servants
waited to superintend its transfer to
the luggage-van. There was a good deal
of movement in the station, and the train
was tolerably full when it started.

It was a pleasant and easy run up to
London, and, at the terminus, Mrs. Jabber
brougham was waiting for Beatrix
No journey could have been more uneventful,
and yet the travellers would never forget
it ; for that night Lady Vane and Beatrix
respectively made a distressing discovery.
Each lady had among her luggage
a dressing-case, with a leather cover and

strap, and each had seen the box in question
put into the railway carriage ; but,
when the leather covers were removed, only
"dummies" were found within them. A
daring robbery had been most dexterously
accomplished, and, no doubt, the police
held, by substitution at the railway station
from whence the travellers had started.
This, however, the servants, upon whom
Sir Edward would not hear of a suspicion
being thrown, stoutly denied. The boxes
had not been out of their sight for a moment,
until they placed them under the feet
of their respective owners, after they were
seated in the carriage ; the substitution must
have been effected when Sir Edward and
Lady Vane and Miss Chevenix got out, at a
rather long stop at a junction, and lingered
about a bookstall. It was " beautifully
done," the detectives said, and, of course,
the police would be active and intelligent
in the matter ; but poor Beatrix remembered
the foreboding of the Duchess of Derwent

which had been realised, the Derwent
diamonds never being heard of again  and
grieved without hope for the loss of her
pearls. Lady Vane's jewels were of great
value ; she had worn several of the finest
at the ball, and it had been her intention to
deposit them, as usual, in Sir Edward's bank
before going abroad.

CHAPTER II.

AN EXPEDIENT.

RS. MABBERLEY's even suavity, in
JJtX which there was no cordiality, was
not in any way disturbed by the evident
reluctance with which Miss Chevenix returned
to her house and society. She received
her unwilling inmate with politeness
that was almost warm, and when the discovery
of the loss of the dressing-case was
made, she displayed womanly pity and
indignation.

Beatrix felt quite grateful to her. This
one little bit of fellow-feeling made the two
almost intimate.

Mrs. Mabberley was inquisitive about the

details of the occurrence, and when, early
on the following morning, they heard that
Lady Vane was a fellow-sufferer, she extended
her sympathy to Lady Vane also.

When the excitement and vexation of
her loss had subsided in some degree, and
Beatrix had given all the information that
was supposed to be useful, and which Mrs.
Mabberley drew up in a remarkably clear
form for the assistance of Scotland Yard,
the subject of Mr. Horndean was discussed
between the two, with less covert antagonism
than usually characterised their conversations.


As Mrs. Mabberley listened to all that
Beatrix had to say, her shifting glance was
frequently turned upon the speaker's face,
with an expression of doubt and surprise ;
but she did not interrupt her by a single
question.

Beatrix concluded by saying :

M You understand my difficulty  I need
not dwell upon it ; and I think I may fairly

expect you to help me out of it, as you
must have seen from the first that it would
arise, whenever a chance of marriage came
in my way."

I understand your difficulty perfectly,"
said Mrs. Mabberley, " and we will discuss
the way out of it presently ; but first I want
to be certain that I understand yourself.
The advantages that a marriage with Mr.
Horndean has to offer you are considerable,
but they are not extraordinary. There are
higher prizes well within your reach, and
the same trouble would have to be faced in
any instance. Are you not deciding in too
great a hurry ?"

The higher prizes have not come in my
way in all these years," said Beatrix, bitterly,
"and I do not grow younger or
brighter; besides, I have other motives. I
shall not marry Mr. Horndean for his fortune
only."

Indeed ! You love him, then  do you
mean that?"

A lone-untouched chord in Beatrix's
breast vibrated under the coarse touch of
this alien hand, but she stilled the revolt
within her.

"I do mean that, Mrs. Mabberley. Will
you kindly accept it as the truth, and let it
pass ?

Certainly, my dear. I beg your pardon
for allowing my surprise to be so visible. I
ought to have remembered that love has
made more unlikely conquests before now.
I myself never pretended to despise that,
or, indeed, any other human passion. It is
enough that it is to be reckoned with in the
present case ; it shall by all means be taken
into account. Let me see, let me see " 
she played noiselessly with her fingers upon
the table before her  " you will want to
have an absconding trustee, an insolvent
banker, or, much better  for investigation
will not be easy  a friend of a speculative
turn, who has led you into disastrous investments.
You will have been entirely

ignorant of money matters, and absolutely
reliant upon the judgment of your friend,
and it will be only when the necessity arises-for
your looking into affairs, for ' realising,'
as it is called, that you will discover that
your confidence, not in the honest', but in
the judgment of that person, has been misplaced,
and that your fortune has been
muddled away. There will be no difficulty
in selecting among the bubble schemes of
this year a few whose reputation will be
none the worse for any charge you may
bring against them. You will make this
unpleasant discovery, and inform Mr. Horn-dean
of it, and he will assure you, with
perfect sincerity, that it is not of the slightest
consequence, and the rest of the world
will be none the wiser. What do you think
of my combination ; does it offer you a
feasible way of escape from your difficulty ?"
A flood of conflicting feelings, so entirely
new to Beatrix that they seemed to change
her identity, had surged up in her heart as

she listened to Mrs. Mabberley's slowly and
carefully uttered words. Fear, shame, and
something terribly like despair were among
them. She loved this man with all the
strength of her nature, for good and ill, and
she rebelled against the necessity for deceiving
him. It would have been a luxury to
Beatrix, as great as any material good she
had ever enjoyed, to have been able to tell
Mr. Horndean the truth.

But this could not be ; the meshes of the
great fraud of her unfortunate life were
around her, and there was no escape in that
direction. She could not but acknowledge
that Mrs. Mabberley had contrived with singular
ability a way of escape for her in
another. It would depend on herself only
to make it secure, by giving it as much as
possible the air of truth.

"This will be the best thing to do, no
doubt," she said, " but I shall have to be precise.
One cannot put off the man one is
going to marry with vague generalities, as

VOL. III. D

one might put off a mere inquisitive acquaintance.
I decline the trustee  he knows
I have none ; I decline the banker  banks
do not flourish or fade without a local
habitation and a name; I 'opt' for the
imprudent, but well-meaning friend."

Something feverish in the manner of
Beatrix, and the fictitious gaiety of her
tone, again awakened surprise in Mrs. Mab-barley.
She looked covertly at her from
under her eyelids, and thought,

It is well that she has almost served
our purpose ; the colonel was right, she is
dangerous with her eyes shut. She would,
however, be impossible with them open, so
I have no choice."

You see things with your usual clearness,
my dear," she said, aloud, "and define
them with the plain speaking that I have
always admired you for. And now we have
reached the point at which I think I can help
you effectually. You will have to be precise,

as you say ; you will have to tell Mr.
Horndean and his sister who the imprudent
but well-meaning friend that has risked
your little fortune in ruinous speculations is
well, you have only to tell him that I am
the involuntary culprit."

You ?"

Yes, I. You are astonished, no doubt,
but you may entirely believe me. I am
quite willing to incur the odium of folly.
Women who dabble in speculation are
among the features of our time, and although
I never did anything of the kind,
and consider a woman who meddles with
speculation as a fool foolish than all her
tribe, I have not the least objection to playing
the part of terrible example for Mr.
Horndean's benefit. You may begin, so
soon as you like, to hint at my business
faculties ; if he has any sense or knowledge
of the world at all, he will be prepared for
squalls after such an intimation as that, if

d 2

you have previously given him to understand
that you are completely in my
hands."

But why  what do you mean ?" asked
Beatrix, in bewilderment. "Why should
you take such an imputation upon yourself?
It must injure you very severely."

Mrs. Mabberley smiled, in the covert and
deeply-meaning way that Beatrix always
shrank from with a sensation of fear, as she
answered :

u I mean that I am prepared to help you
out of your difficulty, and that T am totally
indifferent to Mr. Horndean's opinion of my
business faculties. He will keep it to himself
for your sake, and his believing me to
be one of those fools who are soon parted,
not only from their own money, but from
that of other people silly enough to trust
them with it, will not do me any serious
harm. You will 'handle me gently, as if
you loved me as Isaac Walton says of the
fisherman and the frog, in the telling  also

for your own sake, and, when you and I
part, we shall be quits."

Her voice had not varied, nor had her
face changed for one fleeting instant, while
she spoke thus, and yet never had Beatrix
felt so much afraid of her. A thrill, as of
a cold wind at the back of her neck, passed
over her.

"This," continued Mrs. Mabberley, " is
the best, indeed the only thing you can do.
And now, as regards your immediate plans,
it would not suit me that your marriage
should take place very soon. When it does
take place, I may as well relieve your mind
by telling you at once, you and I part
company for the future."

If Beatrix's life had depended upon her
subduing every trace of emotion, she could
not have kept down the long breath of
relief that she drew on hearing those words,
or hindered the wavering of the tell-tale
colour in her cheek.

You are glad to be assured of that,"

said Mrs. Mabberley, with her composed
and complacent smile ; " so should I be in
sour place. You will have nothing to fear
from me. Change is not in my line.
Mrs. Horndean of Horndean will have no
debts to pay for Miss Chevenix, no arriere-
pense need trouble you. But the time has
not come yet, and you must yourself see
that delay is in your interests. My imprudence,
my ruinous credulity must be amply
demonstrated."

"What do you mean by time'' asked
Beatrix, sullenly. "I must give Mr. Horn-dean
a reasonable answer."

"Certainly, my dear; and, considering
how short your acquaintance with him has
been, I don't think there is anything unreasonable
in my saying that you cannot
marry until after Christmas."

Certainly not," said Beatrix, relieved.
She had feared a much more considerable
postponement than that, and then she added,

under a momentary impulse to which she
yielded with a kind of desperation : " Do
forgive me, Mrs. Mabberley; but I never
knew whether I ought to feel grateful to
you or not. I wish you would tell me your
motive."

Mrs. Mabberley sat silent, with downcast
eyes, and fingers beating noiselessly on the
table, for a full minute before she replied,
then she said,

"You owe me no gratitude; if even you
were capable of it. Between you and me
it would be an idler word than it is nine
times out of every ten that it is uttered. My
motive was a powerful one, it is nearly
exhausted. This marriage of yours falls in
very well with my plans ; let it suffice you
to know so much, and that you will be free
from me ever after."

But it does not, it cannot," said Beatrix,
desperately. u I feel like a person walking
in the dark."

Straight into the light, however' said
Mrs. Mabberley ; "let that content you.
You cannot say I have not adhered to my
part of our bargain ; you have not much
longer to hold to yours. This, however, I
may say ; it, too, will be good news for
you. I don't intend to remain in England
much longer. I have relatives in Canada,
and I think of going there early next year.
When I do go, you can tell Mr. Horndean
that it is because I have come to grief by
speculating in bubble companies. And now,
let us drop the subject. The terms of our
present agreement remain unchanged ; you
make your engagements only with my approval
and consent, and accept such as I
make for you."

With the exception of any that involve
my meeting Mr. Ramsden," said Beatrix,,
rising, and standing before Mrs. Mabberley
in a resolute attitude, and with a look of disdain.
" I positively refuse to recognize that
man; he is an insolent, low person. I was

astonished to see him at Lady Vane's ball,
and was very near asking her how she came
to invite him."

"It is fortunate you did not, for it was I
who asked her for a card for him, and the
question coming from you would not have
been in good taste. Mr. Ramsden does not
please you. Ah ! that is to be regretted ;
but if you will take my advice, Beatrix, you
will not let the fact be too apparent. I do
not know a man whom I would not rather
have for my enemy than Mr. James
Ramsden, especially if I had anything to
conceal."

I do not care ; I will not meet him."
"I do not foresee at present," said Mrs.
Mabberley, without the least disturbance of
her profound calmness, and moving her
crochet-needle with her usual quickness,
that there will be any further occasion for
your meeting Mr. Ramsden ; but, if there
should be, you will be a greater fool than I
take you for, if you are rude to him. You

are not in a position to brave enmity, my
dear, and, although I am going out to
Canada, I have no reason to suppose that
Mr. Ramsden will be leaving London."

At this moment a card was brought to
Mrs. Mabberley.

Mr. James Ramsden," said she, glancing
at it. " He calls early. Some message
from his mother, most likely. Yes, I can
see him."

Beatrix darted out of the room by a side-door.
She was raging with anger and
humiliation, and it was long before she
could subdue them sufficiently to take the
good out of what Mrs. Mabberlev had said.
Every hour since she had parted with her
lover had seemed to lessen her content, and
to bring with it some new apprehension and
misgiving.

She walked up and down her room with
something of the impatience of a caged
animal, and only controlled herself when
she had to begin her letter to Mr. Horn-dean.

He had begged her to let him know
Mrs. Mabberley's views as soon as possible,
so that, if they were not favourable to his
own, he need not propose any change in his
sister's plans. She had to tell him that they
were opposed to his wishes, and she had to
write in a considerate and affectionate tone
of the woman whom she hated and feared.

From this the pride of Beatrix recoiled,
as much as her love  so potent, although
of such recent growth  revolted. As she
sealed the letter, she felt that it would befor
ever hateful to her to remember, although
it settled the time at which she was
to be emancipated, and to become the wife
of the only man whom she had ever even
fancied that she loved.

Mr. Horndean was as impatient, and as
indignant, when he found that he was not
to have his own way, as he always had been
when circumstances and individuals did not
bend themselves to his will, even before

he ceased to be " troublesome " Frederick
Lorton.

His reply to Beatrix was a passionate
love-letter, but it was a very ill-tempered
production as well, and Beatrix, heartily in
love with him as she was, recognized the
vehement self-will in it. She was not
frightened by this; the same existed in herself,
 though in the one instance of Mrs.
Mabberley it had been subdued,  and she
would of course be the one person in the
world to whom Frederick would submit.

The same post brought her a welcome
letter from Mrs. Townley Gore. The
weather had turned very cold, everything
was deadly dull, Frederick was detestably
sulky the writer had no doubt Beatrix
knew perfectly well what made him so 
Mr. Townley Gore was sick of Horndean,
and so was she, and they were coming to
town at once. Frederick would come up a
day or two later, and she should be so glad
to see Beatrix at Kaiser Crescent again.

There was no news, Mrs. Townley Gore
added, except that Mr. Warrender had returned
to Chesney Manor with his sister,
Mrs. Masters, who had come home from
India and had been detained at Paris by an
accident.

Her children have been here sometime,"
added Mrs. Townley Gore. "Mr.
Warrender and she arrived on Tuesday ; I
am going to call there to-day."

CHAPTER III.

TIDED OVER,

Cheney MANOR had no great architectural
beauty to boast of; the old
house lacked the stateliness which so fitly
distinguished the ci-devant Charlecote Chase.
It was a long, low, rambling building,
originally of not more than half its present
dimensions, to which several successive
owners had added, each according to his
own requirements and his own taste. The
result was a roomy, comfortable, unaccountable
sort of a house, with haphazard doors,
quaint and independent windows, and unexpected
staircases. The prevailing tint of
the house was grey, but the walls were

almost concealed by climbing plants, and
the wide terrace on which it stood was
divided from the park and the lake by a
balustrade of red brick, with a wide coping,
and almost covered by a luxuriant Virginia-creeper,
which was famous in all that part
of the country. The park was extensive
and effectively laid out, and the gardens
were large and of the old-fashioned order.
The manor was essentially a quiet place;
there was nothing precisely shabby about
the house or its furniture, but neither was
there anything new or fashionable. An air
of staidness and order pervaded the place,
and the stability of a family firmly fixed in
the respect of the people, seemed to be
conveyed by the physiognomy of Chesney
Manor.

Mrs. Masters was so happy to find herself
in her old house again, surrounded by
the soulless things that were so full of meaning
and memory to her, and in the society
of her brother to whom she was strongly

attached, that she cheered up as she had
never expected to do during her dreaded
separation from her husband. There were
many old places and old friends to visit ;
she and John would have much to go back
upon together ; the memory of the past and
the dead was dear to them both ; her
brother had changed little during her long
absence ; no one had come to occupy the
place she had left vacant, in the old familiar
rooms where she and John had passed their
childhood. She would have been at Cheney
Manor a month sooner, but for the
troublesome accident that had detained her
in Paris, and kept Mr. Warrender with her.
She felt envious of the good fortune of her
children and their governess, who had been
sent on in advance, and had enjoyed all the
early autumnal beauty which she was too
late to see in its perfection.

The largest and the handsomest room in
Mr. Warrender s house was the library ; his
books were the treasures that he most 

prized, and, as the taste was hereditary,
they were nobly lodged. The four lofty
windows on the ground-floor to the left of
the wide portico of the main entrance,
belonged to the library, which occupied a
similar extent in the left angle of the house.
From the front windows a beautiful view
of the park and the lake was to be had ;
those of the side looked into a smooth
bowling-green, with a fine orchard beyond
it, and an intervening settlement of beehives.


In winter and summer alike the library
was a cheerful room, and there we find
Mrs. Masters installed one day, very shortly
after her arrival at Chesney Manor, and in
confidential conversation with her children's
governess. The latter is a young lady of
youthful but grave aspect, with beautiful
grey eyes in which there is a most attractive
mingling of trustfulness and timidity, a very
fair complexion, just a little too pale for
complete beauty, and a slender, graceful

VOL. III. e

figure. She is seated by the side of Mrs.
Masters's couch, which is drawn up close to
one of the front windows ; a small, squat
Algerian table stands at her feet covered
with papers, and she holds with both her
hands a large photograph, at which she is
looking with eyes dimmed by tears. Sweet
and grateful tears they are ; for this girl, on
whose youthfulness a shadow of gravity has
fallen, is Helen Rhodes, and the photograph
in her hands represents her father's tomb in
the English burying-ground at Chundrapore.
Into the safe haven of Mrs. Masters's protection,
extended with glad and generous
alacrity, has the orphan daughter of the
English chaplain, whose last deliberate act
was one of compassion, been brought. The
papers before her have just reached Mrs.
Masters from Chundrapore, and she is telling
Helen how she had written to her after
the death of Herbert Rhodes, enclosing the
photograph of the tomb, but had not had
any acknowledgment, and how, after a

long interval, the packet was returned to
her through the post-office.

"We knew Miss Jerdane's address,"
continued Mrs. Masters, "so I wrote to you
at the Hill House. It would have been
wiser to have addressed my letter to the
care of the lawyer, but I did not think of
that. Miss Jerdane had, of course, left
England before my letter reached the Hill
House, and nobody there knew anything
about you. They naturally refused to take
it in, and so it was returned to me.
Colonel Masters and I were very much distressed
about it, and I always intended to
apply to the lawyer on my arrival in
London."

"You mean papa's lawyers, Messrs. Simpson
and Rees, who sent me his letters," said
Helen. " They did not know anything
about me, I think. I did write to them
once, when I was in Paris, but not to tell
them anything, only to ask a question."

So that I should have failed againe

2

When I heard the good news from Madame
Morrison, by what some people, I suppose,
would call an accident, I wrote at once to
ask Colonel Masters to send me the photograph
and the letter, and now, after many
days, you have them."

The one as precious as the other. I
have so much to thank you for, that I am
unable to thank you at all. How well I
remember the vain longing I used to feel
to see some one who had known my father,
and how I wished for the sake of that I had
gone out to Chundrapore, even when it
would have been too late. To think that I
did not even know your name !"

And how I might never have found you ;
how I might have passed alongside of you
and missed you, as Gabriel missed Evangeline,
if it had not been that my brother
chanced to come in while Madame Morrison
was with me, and asked her about
the pretty young lady whom he had seen
c rehearsing.' Of course you know, Helen,

he had no notion of what you were really
doing, but took you for a bride-elect."

It was a fortunate day for me," said
Helen, striving to hide the trouble into
which she was thrown by Mrs. Masters'
words  the speaker felt them to be thoughtless
as soon as she had uttered them ; " I
can never merit the happy fate it has
brought me."

She spoke in a tone of simple conviction,
and Mrs. Masters, looking at her'attentively,
saw peace and serenity in her face.

tl That is a healed heart," she thought,
u and what an innocent one."

Oh, yes, you can," she said, briskly.
You are an excellent friend for the children,
and a dutiful, elder daughter to me
already ; and, my dear, how like your
father you are sometimes ; not always."

Here Mrs. Masters raised herself on her
couch, and looked out of the window in the
direction of the park.

I see my brother and the children," she

said. "They are going to the hazel-copse,
no doubt. How strong they grow in the
English air."

They were so well while you were
away," said Helen. " Not even nurse could
make out that Maggie was pale, or Maud
dawns as she says."

By-the-by," said Mrs. Masters, settling
down again among her cushions, " I wonder
whether nurse thought it odd that you did
not go outside the grounds, after the accident
to Tippoo Sahib ?"

I don't think so ; the grounds are so
large, and the village is so dull, and every
other place is beyond a walk. I thought it
was the only safety."

Helen said this in an anxious, questioning
tone.

' Of course it was. You were quite right.
If I had had a notion the Townley Gores
were at Horndean I should not have sent you
to England before me ; but I had not. I
have been so long away and my brother is

so silent about his neighbours' affairs  indeed,
so unobservant of them  that I did
not know, and he did not tell me anything
about the people there. I remember Mr.
Horndean, a quiet, stiff, old gentleman, with
a risen-from-the-ranks look and manner,
and I remember a magnificent Miss Lorton,
who barely condescended to recognise my
existence in the old time before Colonel
Masters appeared on the scene ; but I never
heard of her after I left England, or, if I
did, I had quite forgotten her. When Madame
Morrison told me the story of your
being taken up by a friend of your
father's, and made so miserable by the man's
wife, it never occurred to me that Mrs.
Townley Gore was the Miss Lorton of my
former acquaintance, and that you could be
placed in any difficulty by living at Chesney
Manor. It was not until you wrote
and told me of the state of the case that I
heard of old Mr. Horndean's death. My
brother had not mentioned it, and neither

he nor I know anything of Mr. Lorton. But
I am not sure, unless you had objected
very strongly yourself, that we should have
thought it a reason why you should not
come to Chesney. We have always agreed
with Madame Morrison that it would be
well you should be formally reconciled with
Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore, especially as
you do not want any favour from them,
and as you acknowledge that he meant
kindly to you."

"Indeed he did," said Helen, "and I was
very much to blame."

Mrs Masters laid her hand with maternal
kindness on the girl's fair, bended head, as
she said :

There is nothing I have observed about
you, Helen, that I love better than the
frankness of your admission of that. We
will speak of it no more, but I take it into
account in considering the present circumstances.
While I was away, and you were
here alone, you were perfectly right in

avoiding the possibility of encountering Mr.
or Mrs. Townley Gore ; it would have been
very awkward and unpleasant ; but now
that I am here, and it is in the nature of
things that we should meet, I do not think
you ought to avoid them. What I propose
is, that I should tell them, when they call
on me, that you are with me, and how it
came about. You may be quite sure that
Mrs. Townley Gore is too clever not to take
the cue that I shall give her by my manner
of speaking of you, and also that, if she does
not take it, she will lay herself open to having
a large piece of my mind administered
to her with polite frankness."

"She will think me very fortunate; far,
far happier than I deserve."

Perhaps so ; she took such pains to
make you wretched, that it would be a
contradiction in human nature if she could
be glad to know that you are happy and
well cared for ; but she will keep her feelings
to herself: the matter will be passed

over smoothly, and no doubt Mr. Townley
Gore will be sincerely glad to see you.
The position has its awkwardness, but that
will soon be got over, for they are sure not
to stay long in the country, and we shall
be here all the winter. So," added Mrs.
Masters, in the tone in which one closes a
discussion, " it is agreed that I prepare Mrs.
Townley Gore for seeing you, and that
you meet her as if nothing particular had
happened."

Yes," said Helen, submissively ; " but
suppose she tells you I am a wicked, base,
ungrateful girl, and that she refuses to seeme?


In that case, Helen, I shall inform her
very politely that I do not believe her.
Take away your treasures, my dear, and remember
that no one and nothing can
counteract the effect of your own perfect
candour with me, or shake my resolution
to befriend to the uttermost the child of

Herbert Rhodes. Now go; I have to write
to my husband."

Helen left her and went to her own room
a pleasant, spacious chamber, with old-fashioned
chintz furniture, and from whose
deep bay-windows the woods of Horndean
and the widely-spreading shrubbery of Cheney
Manor, severed from its neighbour only
by a sunk fence and a railing, were visible.
An old-fashioned bureau stood between the
windows, and had from the first been selected
by Helen for the safe keeping of all her
little treasures. She put away the photograph
of her father's tomb in one of the
drawers, and placed the letter from Mrs.
Masters, that would have been so great a
help to her if it had reached her according
to the writer s intention, in the blue velvet
bon-bon box. Her father's letters, those
that had been sent to her by Messrs. Simpson
and Rees, in obedience to his instructions
 and the letter which Frank Lisle had

left for her  were in the box. She had
often taken out Frank's letter and asked
herself whether she ought not to destroy it.
Its writer had deserted her ; the phase of
her life with which he was concerned was
over and done with for ever, the page was
closed and, even if she could, she now knew
that she would not reopen it ; would it not
be wiser that she should destroy this one
remaining record of what had been ? Yes,
it would be wiser, and some day she would
destroy it, but not just yet. And then she
heard the children's voices in the hall below,
and she replaced the box, locked the bureau,
and went downstairs.

That same afternoon the event anticipated
by Mrs. Masters took place. Mr.
and Mrs. Townley Gore called upon their
neighbours at Chesney Manor. They found
Mr. Warrender and his sister in the library,
and, the first civilities having been interchanged,
the quartette divided itself, and,
while Mr. Warrender and Mr. Townley

Gore discussed sport and local news, Mrs.
Masters and Mrs. Townley Gore talked rather
laboriously of Horndean, the changes that
had taken place during Mrs. Masters's absence,
and the plans of the respective households
for the winter.

Mrs. Townley Gore presented to Mrs.
Masters a curious subject of observation.
Her good looks, her self-possession, her
self-satisfaction, her air of assured prosperity,
as of one beyond the reach of the
darts of fate, all made an impression upon
a woman who, although remarkably sensible
and self-controlled, possessed a lofty and
sensitive mind, and was solicitous for those
whom she loved, and dependent for happiness
upon the interior rather than the exterior
of things. Knowing what she knew
of her, and feeling with each minute of their
interview, and every sentence that Mrs.
Townley Gore uttered, a growing inclination
to tell her that she knew it, Mrs. Masters's
imagination was easily reconstructing Helen's

experiences, as she listened to the smooth
tones in which the conventional phrases
were uttered.

She was just wondering when the conversation
would take such a turn as might
enable her to introduce Helen's name, and
thinking that an inquiry for her children
on the part of her visitor would probably
furnish her with an opportunity, when Mrs.
Townley Gore's attention was attracted by
a water-colour drawing on an easel near
her.

Your copper-beech is a great favourite,"
she said ; " and deservedly so. It is the
finest in the county, I believe. I am the
happy possessor of a portrait of it, and I
see there is one nearly finished. I suppose
you have heard to what an extent my
brother's friend, Mr. Frank Lisle, profited
this summer by Mr. Warrender's kind permission
to us to make our guests free of
Chesney Park."

"Mr. Frank Lisle? No, I never heard
of him."

"I am very sorry that I cannot bring
him to make his acknowledgments in person
; you and Mr. Warrender could not
fail to be pleased with his appreciation of
the beauties of Chesney. We found my
brother's artist-friend a great acquisition
during the summer ; he is very amusing,
and immensely in earnest about his painting.
He was constantly running over to
Chesney to draw something or other, and
he was particularly proud of his success with
the copper-beech."

Is Mr. Lisle at Horndean now ?"

"No, I am sorry to say he is not. He is
going to Italy for the winter, and my brother
joins him in London in a day or two.
He will miss Mr. Lisle very much ; they
have been friends and travelling-companions
for a Ion" time."

o

This topic interested Mrs. Masters ; she

led Mrs. Townley Gore to talk of her
brother, of his illness and absence at the
time of Mr. Horndean's death, and of Mr.
Lisle's having taken care of him, and returned
to England with him. When she
had heard all that Mrs. Townley Gore had
to say on these points, she began to wish
for the departure of her visitors ; she needed
to be alone, she had something to think of.
She had changed her mind about making
mention of Helen ; she would postpone that
for the present. It was only by an effort
that she could attend to what Mrs. Townley
Gore said, afterwards, of her brother's
regret that he could not accompany her to
Chesney Manor, and his intention of calling
there on the following day ; of their imminent
removal to London, and intention of
returning to Horndean in the spring.

When Mr. Warrender returned to the
library, after seeing Mrs. Townley Gore to
her carriage, he found his sister looking
perplexed. She asked him abruptly :

Do you know much of Mr. Horndean?
What was he doing before the old man
died r

"I know very little about him," answered
Mr. Warrender, " and most of that by hearsay.
I believe he was an unsatisfactory
sort of person enough, until he had it made
worth his while to be respectable, but I
have no personal knowledge of the facts.
Mrs. Townley Gore used to be said to keep
her brother dark ; she never talked of him
to me."

He was not likely to have very reputable
friends and companions, I suppose ?"

Hardly ; but this young artist, Mr.
Lisle, seems to be a pleasant, clever, harmless
fellow. I wish he had stayed a little
longer ; he would have liked to have seen
the things we brought home from Italy.
By-the-by, you did not spring your mine
upon Mrs. Townley Gore. You said nothing
about Miss Rhodes. "Why did you
change your mind ? Were you frightened

VOL. III. F

when it cause to the point? Don't mind
admitting it, if you were," added Mr.
Warrender, smiling, " for I should be entirely
of your way of thinking, if I had
ever intended to say anything even constructively
unpleasant to Mrs. Townley
Gore."

No, no ; I was not afraid," answered
his sister, with a little confusion, confirming
him in his belief that she was. " It
was not that ; but when I found that they
were going away on Wednesday, and there
could be no risk of their meeting Helen, or
hearing anything about her, I thought it
would be quite useless and unnecessary to
mention her. When they come back it will
be time enough, and the reprieve will be
acceptable to her, I have no doubt."

Mr. Warrender accepted the explanation
although his own inclination would have
been to get an unpleasant business over as
promptly as possible  and left Mrs. Masters
to her reflections. These were perplexing.

She could not resist the conviction that

Helen had been exposed to the risk of

meeting the man who had deceived and

deserted her, under circumstances which

would have combined every element of

disaster to her peace and her fair fame.

She could not doubt that the artist, Frank

Lisle, who accompanied Frederick Lorton

to Horndean, was identical with the artist,

Frank Lisle, who forbade Helen to mention

his name to Mrs. Townley Gore, lest she

might get a clue to that " friend," who was

in that lady's black books ; and that the

u friend " was Mrs. Townley Gore's brother,

now restored to her favour by the potent

interposition of prosperity. Was this man's

desertion of Helen connected with the

revolution in the fortunes of his friend ?

She recalled the circumstances, as Mrs.

Townley Gore related them, she compared

the dates, and she arrived at the conclusion

that Frederick Lorton's illness, and the

devoted attendance on him, that led to

f2

Frank Lisle's position as Tame de la maison
at Horndean, were synchronous incidents.
The man was a baser creature than even
she and Madame Morrison had judged him
to be, that was all. The protection of
which he had robbed the orphan girl, the
one resource to which he well knew she
never would resort, was that of the Townley
Gores, and yet it was by them and their
position that this gay-hearted, careless,
happy young artist, who was such a favourite
with everybody, was profiting. She
could not help thinking what a thunderclap
it would have been for him had he
and Helen met, and almost regretted that
the encounter had not befallen ; until she
remembered that to Helen it would have
been a thunderbolt, and fatal.

It took Mrs. Masters some time to makeup
her mind that she would not say a word
of all this to Helen. The danger was over;
it might never recur. If it threatened,
Mrs. Masters would find a way to avert it ;

she could not throw Helen back into the
fever of mind from which she had so long
suffered. The man was out of the way ;
silence was safest and best. When she
summoned Helen, and the girl came, trembling,
to learn what had passed, and she
witnessed her thankfulness, her relief, her
simple acquiescence in the infallibility of
her friend's judgment, Mrs. Masters congratulated
herself that an extraordinary
complication in a difficult affair was safely
tided over. That portion of Helen's story
in which Frank Lisle was concerned, was
the only secret which Mrs. Masters had
ever kept from her brother. She had not
hesitated to conceal the facts from him for
Helen's sake, because her own absolute
conviction of the girl's perfect innocence
satisfied her that no breach of faith was
involved in the concealment. Had she not
chosen Helen as a companion for her own
children ? How heartily she now congratulated
herself that Mr. Warrender knew

nothing of the matter. What complications
might arise if he knew the truth ?
What, indeed ?

Helen was very bright and happy that
evening, almost as gay as the children
themselves, and Mr. Warrender, remarking
the beauty of her smile and the melody of
her laughter, approved of the decision to
which his sister had come. He had few
dislikes, but Mrs. Townley Gore was the
object of one of them : perhaps it was the
unconscious influence of this feeling that
made him find Helen more interesting than
he had ever imagined a girl could be, even
interesting enough to beguile him from his
books at unlikely hours.

The party at Horndean broke up, and the
house was deserted, while the little group
at Chesney Manor settled down to a peaceful
and enjoyable life. Mr. Horndean and
Mr. Warrender had not chanced to meet,
nor did Mrs. Masters see Mr. Horndean
before he went up to town. He called at

Chesney Manor on the day after his sister's
visit, but Mr. Warrender was out, and Mrs.
Masters bad not left her room. As be
was riding homewards by a short cut,
where there was a bridle path through a
wood, he caught sight of two little girls ina
field on the Chesney Manor side of the
railing. The children were tossing a ball,
and a little white dog was following it,
lamely. At some distance he perceived a
lady, seated on a fallen tree ; from her
attitude he concluded she was reading.

The Masters children, I suppose," said
Mr. Horndean to himself, "and Frank's
four-legged patient."

CHAPTER IV.

PLEASANT PLACES.

TTTHEN the two good women who
" took so practical an interest in
the welfare of Helen Rhodes held their
final conference about her, Mrs. Masters expressed
to Madame Morrison a hope that
their protegee might get a chance of marrying.
They were both sensible, matter-of-fact
persons, and if either had been so
deficient in knowledge of human nature
and experience of life, as to regard the state
of Helen's mind at that time as one likely
to be everlasting, or even durable, the
change that had passed over her before
Mrs. Masters joined her at Chesney would

have corrected the impression. But they
took just such a change for granted, and
they discussed Helen's future on that basis.
Madame Morrison agreed with Mrs. Masters
in thinking that a suitable marriage would
be the happiest lot for Helen ; but she
had misgivings, founded on knowledge of
her character, that Helen would consider
her past history a bar to her acceptance
of any other love, no matter how entirely
she might reciprocate it. She had studied
Helen closely, and discovered a good
deal in her which had grown and developed
rapidly. Her simplicity was of the
frank and generous, not the weak kind,
and the elasticity natural to her youth
was not accompanied by any levity of conscience.
When Helen had attained the
thorough knowledge of her wrong-doing,
she did not dally with conviction and repentance,
and the more far-seeing of her
two friends felt sure that she would bear
all her life what she would take to be the

penalty of it. Madame Morrison did not
enter into this with Mrs. Masters. It would
have been difficult to impart her view to
her, she had come upon the scene of events
too late to understand the whole of their
details and bearings, and she was associated
with so complete and fortunate a change in
Helen's destiny, that it was natural she
should not quite realize what had been the
moulding influence of the past upon the
girl's spirit.

"She shall be nominally our children's
governess," Mrs. Masters had said, " so that
any sense of dependence and obligation
should be removed, but neither Colonel
Masters nor I will ever regard her otherwise
than as an adopted daughter. I can answer
for him in this matter with perfect confidence
; all that I do will have his entire
approval. If I go out to India again  and
I may have to go, unless my husband leaves
the service, when the children are old

enough to go to school  I shall take her
with me. She will be certain to marry
there."

Madame Morrison repeated this to her
niece, and awaited her comment upon it
with some curiosity. But Jane shook her
head doubtingly, and said,

I do not think Helen will ever marry.
She might find a man who would forgive
her easily enough, but she will never
forgive herself. No, aunt; our pretty
Helen will be an old maid ; a happy and
contented one, please God, but still an old
maid."

I think so too," assented Madame
Morrison, " and I am sorry for it, the more
so as she will be a poor old maid. However,
we will not think of that just now,
but of her present happy fortune. There's
a good old Irish saying that tells us, * Tt is
time enough to bid the devil good-morrow
when you meet him'"

And so her best friends parted with her,
and missed her, yet felt happy about her,
and settled back into their old ways without
her. She wrote frequently to Jane, and
her letters were so full of the peace and
serenity, the cheerful occupations and the
kindly security of her life at Chesney Manor,
that it became difficult for Madame Morrison
and Jane to realize the painful and
mysterious incidents in which she and they
had been concerned. The story was only
a few months old, and it already seemed
like a dream to them. And yet there had
not been an utter lack of the unexpected,
either, for Helens discovery that Mr. War-render's
next neighbour was the brother of
Mrs. Townley Gore, and that she and Mr.
Townley Gore were actually staying at
Horndean, had been duly communicated to
Jane. Helen also told her of the precautions
she had taken in consequence, and it
was therefore an anxious time for her friends
when they were expecting her narrative of

the arrival of Mrs. Masters at Chesney
Manor, and the subsequent explanation with
the Horndean people.

When Helen's letter reached them, it
announced the adjournment of that explanation
to an indefinite period, and related
the visit of Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore,
adding that it was only to announce their
immediate departure, and so she had escaped
for the present. The prospect for the winter
was a delightful one, Helen wrote, and Mr.
Warrender said she was an admirable
private secretary. She was becoming quite
an adept in " making references," and enjoyed
very much all the copying she could
induce him to let her do ; for Mr. Warrender
was an author, but that was a secret,
and, for all that, she was not a bit afraid of
him. Mrs. Masters was very much better,
able to drive out, though not yet to walk,
and in wonderfully good spirits  considering.
The weather was lovely ; the children
and she had a long walk every morning,

when Mr. Warrender went out with them,
and that was his little nieces' best lesson-time,
for he knew everything, all about
the trees, and the animals, the birds, the
insects, and the history of the place, and
he told them things in such an interesting
way.

The children were very fond of their
uncle. He seemed to have a great deal of
business to transact in reference to the estate.
Helen had never understood before that
there was anything to be done about a
fine house and a big place except to enjoy
them, but she was learning every day she
lived at Chesney Manor. The quick and
just perception that had enabled her to
apprehend Mrs. Townley Gore's character
with correctness which that lady little suspected,
was no less quick and just, now that
it had such opposite employment. The
tender and grateful heart that had been so
ruthlessly crushed, having risen like strong,
sweet herbage when the trampling foot was

removed, gave out its fragrant strength of
love and gratitude.

Jane Merrick was very thoughtful over
this particular letter of Helen's. She read
it aloud to her aunt, then read it again to
herself, folded it up slowly, and said, after
a long pause,

"I am trying to remember what Mr.
Warrender is like. I hardly looked at him
that day he came here and saw Helen in
Miss Smith's wedding finery. How old is
he, aunt ?"

"About forty, I should think. Perhaps
a little more."

"Not at all handsome, is he?"

"Well, no, perhaps not," said Madame
Morrison, reflectively. " He is one of those
rare persons about whom one never thinks
whether they are handsome or not  the
matter of their looks is so unimportant. I
could not describe Mr. Warrender's features,
except the bright blue eyes, for I never
thought of them ; but the impression his

face gives of intellectual power, thorough
goodness, and serene sweet temper, is very
striking. I remember thinking, the first
time I saw him, 'That is the most fearless
face I ever looked at"'

"He seems to be a most devoted
brother."

He is indeed, and his sister is much
attached to him. She said to me, when
she propounded her views about Helen,
that her brother was the best man in the
world."

And yet she did not tell him all."

No ; but that was not for her own
sake. It was entirely for Helen's. She
had not the least fear that, if he had known
all, he would have opposed her doing what
she did."

I almost wish Mrs. Masters had told
him. I think it would have been safer."

"Safer?"

Mrs. Morrison laid her work on her
knee, and looked up at Jane in surprise.

Yes, safer. Helen is in a false position
towards Mr. Warrender."

To a certain extent ; but I cannot see
that it matters. And it would have been
so very awkward."

True, true," said Jane. " Perhaps it is
all for the best. No doubt Mrs. Masters
was the person to decide."

Certainly, my dear. It would not have
become me to offer an objection, even if one
had occurred to me."

Here the conversation dropped. But
Jane read Helens letter again that night,
and said to herself:

However awkward it might have made
the position, I am sure it would have been
safer to tell him."

Time  so happy and so peaceful, that
when she looked back at it afterwards its
hours seemed to Helen to have been winged
was going by, and the chief characteristic
of life at Chesney Manor would have ap-vol.

III. G

feared to outsiders to be a cheerful and
occupied monotony. The stranger within
the gates had as entirely ceased to be a
stranger in her own feelings as her friends
could desire, and when she thought of the
past, so recent, and yet so immeasurably
distant, it was with the trustful thankfulness
of a creature who, after shipwreck, is in a
safe haven.

Her views of what would constitute happiness,
if happiness had indeed that existence
in which she once believed, were changed
beyond all recognition, and she found herself
thinking of herself  she was too young
to turn from that unprofitable subject  as
having got all her storms over early betimes,
and with them also the noontide
glory. The evening had come to her very
soon and suddenly; but it was clear and
tranquil. The pensiveness of her mind was
free from sickly melancholy, because she
was sincere and unaffected ; but the seal of
sedateness had been set upon her demeanour

by sorrow, and there was no hand to
lift it evermore.

Helen was entirely unconscious of the
attractiveness of the composed and considerate
mien, the low and gentle voice, the soft
movements, the smile that came but rarely
and broke slowly over the fair, candid face,
the ready but quiet obligingness, and the
unfailing, observant care for others in everything,
that were all characteristic of herself.
From any perception and sense of her own
beauty she would shrink with a sharp
pang, and put them from her with aversion,
for was it not that which had betrayed
her?

He had cared for that only, and so little
and so briefly, and she had taken the foolish
feeling for love ! Of its ignobleness
Helen had not the most distant notion.
She had only learned its insufficiency, its
futility, and she shunned the idea that she
was beautiful, because there was a humiliation
in it. That was all the man whom she

g2

had loved and trusted, and who had forsaken
her, had ever known about her, or
cared to know. She remembered this now ;
she remembered the constant praises that
had then sounded so sweet, and were now
sickening to her memory, and she would
avoid the sight of her own face in a looking-glass
for days together. This, however,
would be when she suffered slight relapses
into the malady of introspection ; her mood
was generally more healthy, her liberty of
spirit greater. And, as if it were her destiny
to be placed at the opposite poles of
experience, Helen began to stand in some
little danger of being spoiled at Chesney
Manor.

Mrs. Masters, who had become exceedingly
weary of the female companions to
whose society she was restricted at Chun-
draper, and of whom Mrs. Stephenson was
an above-the-average sample, was quite fascinated
by her young protegee. It added to
the pleasure with which she once more

found herself in the ample and luxurious
home of her early years, that she could
make this girl, who had suffered so much,
feel that it offered to her a free, heartfelt,
and embarrassing welcome. She consulted
Helen as if she had been a daughter,
she occupied herself with her, she delighted
in her presence, she made her a resource
and a pleasure, and enjoyed to the utmost
the satisfaction of having gone far beyond
the intentions towards Herbert Rhodes's
child with which she had left India. No
mother, she flattered herself, would have
been more solicitous, more keen-sighted fora
daughter than was she for Helen : and
yet there was one fact, nearly concerning
her, of which Mrs. Masters was entirely unobservant.


This fact was that Mr. Warrender had
fallen in love with her beautiful young
friend, in as decided and expeditious a
manner as if he were not a middle-aged
gentleman who had had losses in his time,

and outlived them without very grave difficulty.


That his sister should not have found him
out, was less remarkable than Mr. Warrender
considered it to be. She was several
years his junior ; but so accustomed to regard
herself as an old married woman,
with all the fancies and coquetries of life
delightfully far away from her, and all its
precious bonds and sacred charities close
about her, that she classed her brother
quite among the elders, and looked upon
him, too, as beyond any stormy vicissitudes
of feeling. She had never formulated the
belief, but she entertained it, that to be her
husband's brother-in-law, her own brother,
the uncle of Maggie and Maud, and Mr.
Warrender of Chesney Manor to boot, was
all John ought to desire in this world. And
he had got it all ; he was a perfectly happy
and contented man.

Of his one love-story she had not known
much ; it had been told after her marriage,

and during her absence from England. It
was a very simple story ; there are hundreds
like it happening every year. Mr.
Warrender had lost his betrothed by the
English plague  consumption. The girl
was marked down by the fell disease before
he had ever seen her ; she died a few weeks
before the time fixed for their marriage ; he
had passed several months in hopeless attendance
upon her, while she had never
ceased to hope, and to assure him that she
should soon be quite well.

He had borne it all very quietly, and,
having narrated it simply to his absent sister,
had henceforth held his peace, and gone his
way, for a long time wearily, but always
bravely and well. The story was an old
one ; the grave in Notley churchyard had
been kept green for ten years when Helen
Rhodes came to Chesney Manor, and Mr.
Warrender had not in the interval been
known to be more than politely conscious of
the existence of any woman.

We have seen how Mrs. Townley Gore
regarded such indifference ; to his sister, it
appeared the most natural state of things,
especially as she was not included in its
conditions. That it ceased to exist, surprisingly
soon after the accidental intrusion of
Mr. Warrender upon the " rehearsal " in
Madame Morrison's show-room, and was
speedily replaced by a love as true and
devoted as ever woman won, for the girl
whom his sister had befriended, she had not
the least suspicion.

Her brother s " ways " were those of a
thoroughly domestic man ; he was with herself
and Helen at all times when he was not
imperatively obliged to attend to some business
elsewhere ; he was evidently happy in
their society, and never " put out " by the
children. Chesney Manor was certainly nota
lively place of sojourn, but he never
seemed to want to go away from it, and his
attention to the two ladies surpassed that
which might be expected from a model

brother and host by the most sanguine.
That these were symptoms, never occurred
to Mrs. Masters ; she had always known her
brother to be the kindest, the gentlest, the
bravest of men, but she had been long unfamiliar
with his habits, and saw nothing to
wonder at in his home-loving ways. Formerly
there were only his books for him to
care about, now there were herself, and the
children, and Helen. He was so happy
with them all that she could not bear to
allude to that possible prospect of her
returning to India, and taking Helen with
her.

And Helen ; was she, as the wintry days
crept on, and the pleasant prospect of congenial
society and favourite occupations
realised itself, equally unconscious of the
feelings with which Mr. Warrender regarded
her ? Did she suspect that he loved
her, with a love that the noblest of women
might have been proud to win, and which,
could she but have held herself free to accept

it, would have made her enviable
among the happiest ? Had she any notion
that this accomplished scholar, this man of
weight and importance in the land, this unknown
poet, this perfect gentleman, was
torn and tossed with conflicting hope and
fear, and that she was their object. The
hope that he might win her bright beauty
and her innocent, girlish heart ; the fear
that in her eyes he could never be other
than a grave, elderly man, a kind protector,
to be regarded with grateful and respectful
liking, which would be intolerable to him ;
a stone on which his teeth should be
broken, while he was craving for the bread
of life ?

As the wintry days crept on, Helen began
to dread that something was coming to
trouble her new-found peace, to disturb the
lines that had been laid in such pleasant
places. She would not have been, at that
stage of her life, capable of understanding
the full meaning of being loved by such a

man as Mr. Warrender, but she had listened
to words and received looks of love, and no
woman to whom those have come can fail
to recognise the feeling that they interpret,
even before it has taken their form. She
recognised it, with profound amazement,
with a wild attempt at incredulity, and with
a deep-seated, despairing dread. Was shea
creature accursed of fate, that she should
bring misery to those whom she loved, and
who had so nobly befriended her ? It was
no impulse of vanity that moved her to this
desolate cry of the soul ; she knew that love
unrequited, love disappointed, however unworthy
the object, or wasted the passion,
means suffering that seems, for the time at
least, to be unbearable. That such a man
as he whose life and character she had been
studying with the delight that might have
been inspired by a revelation, should love
her, was simply amazing, but she did not
dwell on this, she thought only that he
would have to suffer through her agency.

When he should know the truth about her,
what pain he would have to undergo !
Helen did not wonder at all at her own
keen-sightedness, nor did she trifle with the
serious thoughts which her discovery brought
with it, by any sentimental rebuking of herself
for presumptuous fancy ; she was too
sincere for that. However great the wonder
that Mr. Warrender should love her,
she knew he did, and that was the fact
with which she had to deal. It changed
the whole aspect of her life, it destroyed
her peace, disturbed her security, endangered
the recently formed relations that were
so precious to her ; in every rational sense
it was a terrible evil, and yet  she fought
with herself, she blushed for herself, but
down deep in her heart there was exultation.
In vain she reminded herself that
when he should know the truth about her,
he would cease to love her, that he was
cherishing a delusion, and would renounce,
when he detected it ; she did not believe

her own argument ; something  it was not
hope ; that had no place with her  told her
that he would love her still.

And then, amid all the confusion, the
apprehension, and the misery that had suddenly
arisen and encircled her with a bewildering
cloud, Helen knew one thing
quite clearly, and also that the strength of
its consolation could never fail ; that she
was happy because he loved her, happy in
spite of everything, notwithstanding the inevitable
parting that awaited her, happy let
what might come. What was she to do ?
Must she wait until he had spoken the
words to her that would force her to
separate herself for ever from him, and the
home that was so dear to her, or were there
any means by which she might avert that
blow ? Could she venture to anticipate it,
and entreat Mrs. Masters to tell all the
truth concerning her to Mr. Warrender?

Helen's ignorance of the world, and her
natural simplicity, rendered her, happily

for herself, unconscious of the many-sided
objections that might fairly be raised
against the step which something subtler
and stronger than reason told her Mr.
"Warrender contemplated, and, therefore,
none of the misgivings that would have beset
a more worldly-wise person came to
turn her from contemplating this course.
Mrs. Masters was to her all that she had
imagined a mother might be ; she would
certainly have taken such a trouble as this
to her own mother ; she would take it to
Mrs. Masters. And, when Mr. Warrender
should have learned from his sister that
love and marriage were closed chapters in
the story of Helen's life, he would forgive
her the pain she had made him suffer, and
they should be friends  in so far as with
her insignificance she could be the friend of
so great-souled a man  always. Thus did
Helen, with the beautiful facility and pertinacity
of youth in finding a way out of its
difficulties without paying the toll, arrange

a solution which merely lacked, to render it
possible, the taking into account of human
nature.

It was after one of the morning walks, in
which Mr. Warrender joined the children
and their governess, that Helen had found
herself face to face with this new trouble.

Christmas was near; the weather was
bright and frosty; the great logs burned
briskly with a pleasant, crackling sound on
the wide hearth of the library ; the spacious
room looked very comfortable in the winter
evenings, when the little party of three
occupied it. On the evening of that same
day, Mrs. Masters being called away by the
nurse, Helen found herself again tete-astute
with Mr. Warrender, and, with a novel
sense of nervousness and confusion, she
began to talk of the book she had been
reading. It was on the subject of popular
superstitions, and Mr. Warrender took it up
and read a page or two.

"It must be difficult to avoid unlucky

incidents in some countries, according to
their notions," said Mr. Warrender; "and
betrothed lovers should be provided with a
pocket code for their instruction. I see they
must not exchange gifts of knives, scissors,
hair, or prayer-books ; a bridegroom must
not see his bride's wedding-gown before she
wears it at the altar, and a bride must not
have the wedding-ring in her possession
beforehand. And here are cautions for
mere aspirants : an unbetrothed girl who
puts on the wedding-veil of a bride will
never be married ; a betrothed girl who
puts on the cap of a new-made widow will
be a widow herself. How absurd !"

He threw down the book and looked at
Helen. The trouble in her face struck him,
and at the same instant, he remembered how
he had seen her first, and knew that she too
remembered it.

With a desperate effort Helen seized the
chance that had offered itself.

"The omen will not be belied by

me," she said ; " the first time I ever saw
you I wore the wedding-veil of a bride,
and I, most certainly, shall never be married."


Helen ! What do you mean ? Is
this "

She put up her hand imploringly, and
stopped him.

Do not ask me any questions, Mr.
Warrender ; and never, never let us speak
of this again. You are so good to me, I
am glad you should know I have had a disappointment,
and I shall never be the wife
of any man."

"You  so young!" His voice was almost
inarticulate.

"Yes, I was very young. But it is so;

and " She was unable to say more,

and fell back in her chair, covering her face
and trembling.

Very quietly he approached her, and
drew down her hands, holding them firmly
while he spoke :

VOL. III. h

U I know why you have told me this, and
it was nobly done. Have no fear, either
for yourself or me."

He dropped her hands and resumed his
seat, as Mrs. Masters re-entered the room.

There's nothing really wrong with
Maggie," she said, gaily, "and I have
brought you some news. Look up from
your books, both of you. There's a wedding
afoot!"

Indeed," said Mr. Warrender. " Whose?
Nurse's, perhaps."

"Mr. Horndean's. I wonder how Mrs.
Townley Gore will like it ? It seems that
Mr. Horndean is going to marry a Miss
Chevenix, a beauty by all accounts. She
was down here in September, and caused
quite a sensation."

I have seen Miss Chevenix," said
Helen; "she is a great favourite with Mrs.
Townley Gore."

Did you like her ? Is she nice ?"

"I should not have dared to likelier;

she did not take any notice of me. She is
very beautiful."

b( When are they to be married?" asked
Mr. Warrender.

Shortly after Christmas ; and they are
coming direct to Horndean. I heard all
the news from nurse, who heard it from
Dixon, who heard it at the post-office."

n 2

CHAPTER V.

DIFFICULTIES.

TTTHEN Helen looked out of her window
on the following morning, to find
heavy rain falling, and the sky with the uniformly
sullen aspect that promises a wet
day, she was relieved. Among the disturbing
questions that had kept her waking in the
night was one concerning the early hours of
the day now begun. What was she to do
about the morning walk with the little girls
and Mr. Warrender? Whether he would
avoid it or seek it, whether he would
resume the topic of the preceding evening
or not, she could not guess. If she had but
said a few more words, something that

would have implied a prayer that he would
never again revert to it, things might have
been easier ; but the interruption had
prevented that, and in her trouble and confusion
she was not even sure what were the
exact words he had said. Something to
the effect that she was not to be afraid, was
all she had caught, but that did not
strengthen her much, or help her ; for he
did not know of what she was afraid, and
his ignorance was the heaviest part of her
trouble. If he spoke to her again  and unless
she could avoid the morning walk it
was almost probable that he would do so 
what was she to do ?

The straight fall of the rain before her
windows was therefore a welcome sight ;
Helen felt reprieved. Mr. Warrender always
breakfasted with her and the children,
but they were never alone on those occasions
; so that while she might be able to
gather from his manner whether the subject
that she dreaded was to be a closed and

forbidden one, she need not at the worst be
afraid of its immediate resumption.

There was a strange strife of feeling in
Helen's heart. Silent chords had been
struck, and there was a giving out of their
old music. She wondered, she feared, she
was glad and sorry, proud and perplexed,
all at once. And she wondered why it was
that in all this tumult of feeling there was
none of the former agony of regret for her
false and fickle lover. The time when her
brain had reeled and her eyes ached, when
her heart had almost broken, and her
strength had failed with the protracted
agony of longing for his presence, might
have been lived through in another state
of existence, so little was its influence upon
her now. An abiding regret for her own
error would be with her always, but no
more of the pangs of despised love. If she
could have told Mr. Warrender all the
truth, she would have been infinitely relieved,
but that she was not free to do.

Mrs. Masters had thought it best that the
circumstances should be known to herself
only, and in this matter her wishes were
law. But how was Helen to act towards
Mrs. Masters ? This was one of her chief
perplexities, and she brooded over it, pale
and dejected-looking, for an anxious hour,
after she was dressed and ready to go
downstairs.

Helen had taken no heed of time that
morning ; she was up long before her usual
hour, and yet, when the children came to
fetch her, according to custom, she was surprised
to find that it was breakfast-time.
She had not yet solved her difficulty ; how
was she to act towards Mrs. Masters ?
What was she to tell her, and how was she
to tell it ?

Helen loved and honoured Mrs. Masters
with all her heart, and her gratitude to
her was as profound as might have been
expected from a grateful nature, quickened
by such an experience as that of the tender

mercies of Mrs. Townley Gore. She suffered
intolerably from the mere idea of failing in
the most absolute truthfulness towards her,
but what was she to tell ? Could she goto
her and say : " Your brother loves me,
and would marry me if I could consent ;
you know I cannot, and that I am helplessly
condemned to make him unhappy."
Mr. Warrender had not said that he loved
her ; he had not asked her to marry him.

To know there was a disturbing cause
among them, that the peace of the household
into which she had been so warmly
welcomed was troubled, and by her, was
terrible to Helen. If she could but see
Jane, and get advice from her !

Thinking this one thought distinctly,
amid the confusion in her mind, she went
down to breakfast, and found, not altogether
to her satisfaction, that she and the
children, were to have that meal to themselves.
The longer her first meeting with
Mr. Warrender was postponed after the

events of last evening, the more awkward
she would feel that meeting.

Mr. Warrender was too great a favourite
with his little nieces, and too necessary to
their contentment, for the children to take
his absence from the breakfast-table without
question. They raised a clamour immediately,
and Helen was enabled to learn,
without enquiry on her own part, that Mr.
Warrender had invited himself to breakfast
with his sister in her dressing-room.

The intelligence made Helen's heart beat
quickly. What did this mean ? Was he
going to speak to Mrs. Masters ? Was he
going to tell his sister that which must
make her repent of her generous kindness,
and heartily wish that the orphan girl had
never come across her path ?

With burning cheeks and icy-cold hands
Helen sat silent at the table, and forced
herself to attend to the children; but she
partially recovered her composure when
she found that the letters from India had

arrived that morning, and that they were
unusually numerous. It might be only an
accident, it might merely be that Mrs.
Masters and her brother had to talk of
family affairs.

The morning wore away; the children
were cross and troublesome, under the
double infliction of a wet day, and the
deprivation of "Uncle John." They did
not like Miss Rhodes at all so much as
usual, and the lessons were not a success.
It was nearly twelve o'clock when Mr.
Warrender came into the morning-room,
and was received with shouts of delight, and
an instant demand for battledore and shuttlecock
in the hall on account of the horrid
rain.

Helen gave him one fleeting glance, and,
by a desperate effort of her will, kept her
face from changing. That his was grave
she could not but see. There was no alteration
in the kindly courtesy of his tone ashe
addressed her, said something about the

batch of Indian letter?, and added that Mrs.
Masters would be glad if she could go to
her.

Helen hurried away, dreading she knew
not what. She was obliged to pause at the
door of Mrs. Masters's dressing-room to
summon up her courage, but, with her first
glance at her kind friend, she saw that she
should not need any, except for her own
private use.

Mrs. Masters talked to her about the
weather and the children ; about the budget
of news from India  the letters included a
gushing epistle from Mrs. Stephenson  and
about Colonel Masters's disconsolate and uncomfortable
state in her absence. Mrs.
Masters was always rather " low" on Indian
mail days ; she longed for the letters, but
they fretted her when they came.

"In Mrs. Stephenson's letter," she added,
there is a great deal about yourself and
what she calls 'the romantic rencontre*
meaning my meeting with you in Paris*

She heard of it from Colonel Masters, and
wants to know all the particulars, for, as
she very justly remarks, there is no getting
details' out of my husband. She asks a
whole string of questions about you, and
wants your photograph. I never knew
anybody with such a fancy for having portraits
of people whom she does not know.
But the oddest thing is her familiarity with
the affairs of Horndean. Of course she
never heard Mrs. Townley Gore's name in
connection with you, but she seems to know
all about her, and she is very gushing on
the subject of the 'inheritance,' and the
prodigal,' as she obligingly calls Mr. Horn-dean
 I am sure I do not know why. She
wants to know whether he has foresworn
cards, sown his wild oats, turned over a
new leaf, and married an heiress! She is
an extraordinary woman ; she writes about
our next neighbour, whom I don't know by
sight, as if she were his intimate acquaintance."


Mrs. Masters said this rather irritably, for
Mrs. Stephenson, either in person or on
paper, had an irritating effect on her, and
Helen found it singularly difficult to speak.
The name of Frank Lisle had rarely been
mentioned since Madame Morrison had told
her story to Mrs. Masters, and the incident
of Mrs. Stephenson's letters to him, and the
use he had made of them, was one which
had not dwelt in Mrs. Masters's memory.
But Helen had to speak the name.

It would be from Mr. Lisle that Mrs.
Stephenson would hear about Mrs. Townley
Gore and her brother," she said ; " she was
a great friend of his, you may remember."

"I do remember, and I am very sorry I
said anything about her letter, my dear
child. It was thoughtless of me. Of course
that was her source of information."

Mrs. Masters was vexed with herself for
her forgetful n less, and also freshly struck
with the strange suddenness and yet the
nearness-at-hand of the links that connect

human beings and human affairs. Mrs.
Stephenson could no doubt tell them all
about Frank Lisle ; the man who imagined
he had cut every link between himself and
the victim of his heartless caprice, was
within Mrs. Masters's reach, if she chose to
stretch out her hand ; but her only desire
was to know nothing about him, to keep
Helen from the risk of meeting him, tolet
him fade from her memory. If, when
the Townley Gores returned to Horndean,
and the inevitable meeting between them
and Helen became imminent, she heard
anything of Mr. Lisle's intending to come
to Horndean, Mrs. Masters was not sure
but that a quiet and timely hint might
be given him that he had better stay
away, if he did not wish to be unmasked
before his friends. That, however, was a
consideration for the future ; such a contingency
might never arise, This passed so
swiftly through her mind while she was

arranging her letters, that there was hardly
a perceptible pause before she said,

"My brother seems to be infected by the
prevalent disease of restlessness ; just as I
was congratulating myself upon his being so
thoroughly content and settled down here.
Is it not provoking of him ?"

A few minutes before, Helen's heart had
been racing, now it stood still. She could
not ask Mrs. Masters what she meant, but
Mrs. Masters was full of her grievance, and
she went on :

John cannot beat about the bush, it is
not in him ; but he tried to insinuate his
meaning gently just now. The fact is, he
means to go abroad in January."

Abroad ? Very far ?"

"Very far indeed, though he talks as
though it were in the next county  to
Egypt. He says he wants to make some
studies on the spot ; that he has reached a
stage of his book which requires them ; that

he does not like the cold  not having come,
like me, from a prolonged baking  and
wants to escape the three worst months in
the year. I think he also wants to escape
my visitors, Colonel Masters's brother and
his wife, who are coming next month, but
he declares he does not, and so I am bound
to believe him. It really is very provoking,
just as we had all settled down so happily ;
is it not?"

Three months !"

So he says ; but I know what three
months will mean, when John gets among
mummies and hieroglyphics. I said I could
only conclude that he was bored with our
company, but that hurt him very much ; so
much that I do believe if I had pressed the
point, and pretended to think so in sound
earnest, he would have given it up. I could
not do that, you know ; it would be too
ungenerous."

And so  Mr. Warrender is going
away ?"

Yes. How dreadfully we shall miss
him ! However, I shall certainly try to fix
him by a promise to the three months.
John always keeps his promises."

"A great deal may happen in three
months' said Helen, dreamily. She was
talking to herself, and her mind was busy
with a resolution she had just taken.

True ; I hope it will happen to him to
grow very tired of Egypt, and to come
back before his tether is pulled tight. I
must say it was a most unpleasant surprise."

This communication made Helen very
unhappy. It was almost more than she
could bear to feel that she was the cause of
this great disappointment to Mrs. Masters,
whose utter unconsciousness smote her with
the keenest pain. She made an excuse of
headache, which her pale face confirmed,
to escape to her own room, and shut herself
up with her new grief. He was flying from
her; she had ruined his peace; she was
banishing him from his home, depriving his

VOL. III. I

sister of the comfort and joy of his presence
she who had no right there ; she who
had done a thing so wrong that no repentance
might redeem it, and if she were to
have the great relief of telling him the
truth, it could only be in praying him to
tear her from his heart. This was what
had come of the noble generosity with
which the sister and the brother had welcomed
her. What should she do ? Implore
him to remain at Chesney for his
sister's sake, and beg them both to let her
go?

As she sat forlornly on the floor, leaning
her head against her bed, in a childish attitude
of trouble, she remembered, as another
contrast in her fate, the appeal that
she had made to Mr. Townley Gore, her
entreaty to be allowed to fly from hatred,
and the house that to her was not home,
but a prison.

It was from love, and peace, and happiness

that she would fain fly now ; and whither
? How was she to do it, and on what
pretext, since Mr. Warrender had not given
her the right to tell the truth, either to his
sister or himself?

Her thoughts were in a whirl ; she could
not reduce them to order ; she only knew
that she must go  that was the one right
way out of this trouble into what? Ah,
who could tell that ? Would Madame Morrison
come again, or allow Jane to come
to her aid in this unexplained distress, when
she should be forced to appear to act with
the veriest caprice and unreason ? Again,
and after how brief an interval, she was
confronted with the question, what was to
become of her ?

In the meantime, certain aids to the solution
of that question were working towards
its settlement, independently of Helen.

It was with some surprise and interest
that Delphine Moreau, on arriving at Horrid



dean, recognised in the lady who did the
honours of that grand English country
house, the same person who had occupied
the house in the Avenue du Bois, and
whose proud and luxurious ways had so
much impressed her then inexperienced
mind. Delphine's intelligence was of the
rapid order, and, short as the interval was,
she had seen a good deal since then. She
was neither to be dazzled nor awed by
Mrs. Townley Gore, or anybody like her,
now ; she was merely curious concerning
her.

Nothing was seen or heard at Horndean
of Madame Lisle. What had become of
her since she returned  as Delphine never
doubted  to England? Did they know
anything about her, this dinner-eating, ease-loving
gentleman, and this fine lady, who
was so well-preserved, except in the matter
of temper? Not a hint was to be gathered
that the people at Horndean had ever heard
of "mademoiselle." Delphine felt a sort

of interest in her ; she remembered her
when the earrings looked especially becoming.


All this in the first two days of Beatrix's
stay at Horndean, during which her maid
did not chance to see Mr. Horndean and
his friend Mr. Lisle ; but her curiosity was
stimulated, and her interest was aroused
when she caught sight of those gentlemen,
and, instantly recognising the monsieur of
the Louvre, he who had come to the lodge
of her uncle, Jules Devrient, and asked for
Mrs. Townley Gore, had heard that he was
Mr. Lisle.

k And Madame Lisle?" she asked; but
the housekeeper laughed at the question.
There was no Madame Lisle ; Mr. Lisle was
a deal too roving in his ways, and too merry
and devil-may-carish to " settle " yet awhile.
Delphine, actuated by her habitual caution
and secretiveness, said no more, but she
gave a good deal of thought to the matter.
Her duties kept her very busy ; Beatrix

was an exacting mistress, and the rooms
which she occupied were far removed from
the gentlemen's quarters. It chanced that
Delphine never again saw Mr. Horndean and
Mr. Lisle together until the day on which
she left Horndean with Miss Chevenix for
Temple Vane. After that day she pondered
more deeply than before on the subject
of " mademoiselle," no longer thinking of
her as a possible " madame" after what the
housekeeper had said, and wishing that she
could find an opportunity of disturbing Mrs.
Townley Gore's serenity  for she detested
that lady with the full force of a fine
capacity for hatred  or of employing someone
else to do it, with safety to herself.
No such opportunity offered, however, and
Delphine, who had important private affairs
of her own to attend to just then, on her
clever administration of which depended the
chances of a modest dot  prospect ever dear
and absorbing to the French heart  had to
reconcile herself to waiting.

The relations between Miss Chevenix and
her maid were of a singular kind. Miss
Chevenix had begun by treating the new
maid provided for her by Mrs. Mabberley
as she had treated the former one  (that
Mrs. Benson who had been taken ill at the
Duchess of Derwent's house, and peremptorily
sent home to Glasgow, and concerning
whom she had never since troubled
herself to ask a question)  that is to say,
with insolence and disdain. But she very
soon abandoned her line of conduct, for
the sound reason that it made things unpleasant
for herself. Delphine was a match
for her mistress in temper, and had more
coolness, because she was in a position of
superior strength. The first time Beatrix
was insolent to her, she refused to dress
her, and met the fury with which she was
assailed with the quiet remark, "I-take
orders from mademoiselle when she gives
them properly, never otherwise. Mademoiselle
will please to remember that. Such

are the instructions of my employer." Beatrix
turned deadly pale and shivered. If
she could safely have killed Mrs. Jabber
and Delphine at that moment, she would
have done it. But freedom did not lie that
way. She rallied her spirits by thinking of
the way it did lie, and said, with a forced
smile of exceeding bitterness,

u You shall have your orders ' properly
my good girl. The point of honour must
be keen indeed with such as you."

Delphine walked quietly out of the room,
and Beatrix had to follow her, and to beg
her pardon in set terms. From this hour,
the two handsome young women hated each
other with intensity characteristic of both ;
but no outward sign of that feeling escaped
either of them. In the emancipation to
which Beatrix looked forward so eagerly,
the getting rid of Delphine was no small
item of advantage, and it gave her a spiteful
pleasure to conceal her intended marriage
from her maid as long as possible.

Delphine, on her side, wishing Miss
Chevenix all possible ill, and possessing
this advantage in her hatred of her mistress
over her mistress's hatred of her, that she
had it in her power to bring about not a
little of that ill, while Beatrix could do her
no harm at all, made certain observations
respecting Mr. Ramsden with a secret pleasure.
He admired this creamy-skinned,
red-haired, light-eyed, she-devil, and he
would \ find it pleasant and profitable to
marry her; she (Delphine) wished him all
success, and she believed there were certain
ways of securing it. Mrs. Mabberley
would not approve, perhaps, but bah ! what
should she care, beyond a certain point,
for Mrs. Mabberley ? When the time came,
she would help Mr. Ramsden to his prize ;
for Delphine could fully trust him to avenge
any injury that anyone had received at the
hands of a woman who should be in his
power.

I know him," she would say to herself,

and he is a devil. Now a he-devil can
always outwit and beat a she-devil, when she
cannot get away from him. He shall have
the cream-skin, and the red-head, and the
shining eyes, when the time for telling
comes. "

CHAPTER VI.

SMOOTH WATER.

"VTTITH each day that passed Miss Chevy
enim learned to appreciate more
highly the value of the expedient by which
Mrs. Mabberley had proposed to solve the
difficulty that had seemed so formidable.
She had at first suffered real pain from the
impossibility of telling Mr. Horndean the
truth, but, when she found that the object
she desired could be accomplished as successfully
by telling him what was not the
truth, she was almost as well pleased.
After all, the other feeling was a mawkish
sentiment. To succeed was the only thing
of importance. Why should she care, she

to whom truth and falsehood were merely
words ? She was consistent, and she did
not care ; stuff of that kind was a result
of the influence of love upon weak minds ;
she had been only passingly touched by it.
The false explanation that released her
from her difficulty, and satisfied her lover,
was the best thing for both.

Mr. Horndean behaved perfectly. At
first he did not want to listen to the story
that Beatrix begged him to hear ; but she
assumed so resolute and so dignified an air,
that he found he must attend to this unpleasant
business ; and she proceeded to
explain it, not very clearly, indeed, but in
fair-seeming detail. She had, with Mrs.
Mabberley's assistance, provided herself
with a note-book, and a small bundle of
prospectuses, and she had, quite pat, the
names of several enterprises which had been
set on foot with the purest motives and the
fairest prospects, but had come to grief on
account of the stupidity or malice of moneyed

mankind, as displayed either by its never
supporting or promptly withdrawing from
them. Her lover took the note-book and
the prospectuses out of her fair hands, threw
them down, and begged her to spare herself
and him the worry of going over such unprofitable
ground. She submitted gracefully,
and he assured her, with perfect sincerity,
that he did not consider the matter worth a
thought, and regretted it only because it
had power to bring a look of care into the
heaven of her face, which he would always
have as cloudless as it was divine. As
for Mrs. Mabberley's conduct, Mr. Horn-dean
was disposed to be very easy and
apologetic in his treatment of that. Of
course he discussed it as though he, himself,
had always possessed a " head for
business," and had invariably employed his
head in the transaction of business. That
was natural and manlike, and although
Beatrix had heard from Mrs. Townley Gore
a good deal about Mr. Horndean, when he

was Fred Lor ton, at which time he would
have been more conducive to the comfort
of himself and other people if he had numbered
prudence among his virtues, she listened
with perfect gravity. Her glossy
head nestled softly against his shoulder,
her white hand lay confidingly in his, her
thick eyelashes drooped, her lips were not
stirred by the very slightest smile, and yet
she was very much amused. For nothing
could blunt the cynical edge of Beatrix's
sense of humour ; not her apprehension for
herself, nor her love of her lover, which
was as ardent and as strong a passion as he
could desire. Indeed, it sometimes touched
him with a vague uneasiness, perhaps because
he had seen and experienced a good
many shams, and never until now the real
thing.

"We must not be hard on her, my
queen' he said, with his head bent towards
her nestling face ; "she meant well, and no
doubt she has singed her own wings pretty

badly also. Nine times in ten, women who
dabble in speculation make an utter mess
of it ; their vanity gets in the way, you
know ; and those promoter fellows and
people of that kind flatter them with the
notion that it's a deuced clever thing for a
woman to understand finance  and so it is,
mind you, in any other way except spending
money. None of them are bad at that,
and I should not like them if they were."

No ?"

No, certainly not. Women who are
always thinking of small economies are
simply odious ; they spoil everything for
one, they take the flavour and the go out
of life."

"Letting 'I dare not' wait upon 'I
would.' I never did think of small economies
; but, if it were not for you, Frederick,
I should have been obliged to think of
them, and to practise them, too, as a result
of Mrs. Mabberley's unusual faculties for
business."

She flashed her bright eyes at him as she
raised her head from his shoulder, and he
was not sure whether the flash meant anger
or amusement.

"What an idea! At all events, I am
indebted to Mrs. Mabberley's talents and
tastes ; they have made it worth my while
to be Horndean of Horndean."

It was gallantly said, and Beatrix rewarded
the speech with one of her rare
kisses, after which her lover was not inclined
to talk of money any more. Nor
was Beatrix unwilling to change the subject
for that inexhaustible one, the lovers'
future ; but, although she had got her story
told more expeditiously, and more successfully,
than she had anticipated, there were
just two points remaining to be impressed
upon Mr. Horndean's attention.

Stay, Frederick," she said ; " you must
let me say something more, and then, if
you wish, we may lay the subject by forever.
I don't want to blame poor Mrs.

Mabberley myself; she has been too good
to me, in spite of all her mistakes, for
that "

u Angel I" murmured Mr. Horndean, in a
parenthesis of admiration.

And it would pain me very much that
other people should blame her. When she
told me the whole sad truth, acknowledging
that all my money was lost, and confessing
that she had not had courage to go into the
accounts, as she called it, until the near
prospect of my marriage " (a second parenthesis
occurred here) " made it impossible
to shirk them any longer, she said one thing
which struck me very forcibly, not because
of the effect it would have upon you  I
knew I need not care about that  but
because of the truth, the convincing truth,
of it to other people  to your sister, for
instance."

"And what was that truth, my queen ?
And what are other people, even including
my sister, to you and me ?"

VOL. III. K

The sentiment implied in the latter question
was of the insolent and cynical kind
that Beatrix shared and liked, but just at
that moment it did not suit her to sympathise
with it.

Other people, and especially your sister,
must always be a great deal to us ; we
cannot help that. What Mrs. Mabberley
said, was that everyone who came to know
anything about my affairs, and particularly
Mrs. Townley Gore, would be aware that,
when I accepted you, I had no notion I
should be a penniless bride. You must
see, Frederick, that there is a satisfaction
in this for me."

I shall try very hard to see it, if you
bid me do so, my beautiful darling ; but I
can hardly believe there are fools in the
world so foolish as not to know that no
riches could add to, and no poverty could
take from, the treasure you gave me that
day. At all events, I will answer for it
that my sister is not one of those fools.

Why, I first heard of you and of all your
charms from her !"

Beatrix did not smile, but she remembered
that the charms of that bygone epoch
included her own supposed possession of
the pretty little fortune which had enabled
her father to keep up a smart house in
Hay fair, with everything "in a concatenation
accordingly." Beatrix knew Mrs.
Townley Gore a good deal better than Mr.
Horndean knew her, for he had forgotten
many of the experiences of Frederick Lorton
; but what she did not know was the
selfish hardness with which his sister had
treated Frederick. If she had known this,
Beatrix would have divined the secret uneasiness
that constantly beset her friend,
and kept her on her good behaviour towards
her now important brother, and she
would have thought less of Mrs. Townley
Gore's probable action in any matter concerning
herself. Not knowing this, she was
apprehensive, for the business faculties of

k2

her lover's sister were not mythical, and
the determination with which she could
pursue an object was one of her strong
points.

If Mrs. Townley Gore should make up
her mind to sift the story of Mrs. Jabber
unfortunate investments, she would
inevitably come at the truth, or, rather, at
the falsehood of it, and then there would
be a dangerous moment for Beatrix, To
provide against the risk of this was her
next move.

Your sister has always been the kindest
of friends to me," she said, " but so clever
a woman as she is, must necessarily blame
me for being so stupid and so vague about
all this horrid business. I should not like
her to think me quite a dunce. She could
not wish you to marry one, you know ; and
yet, dearest Frederick, even to avoid that,
I could not bear to have poor dear Mrs.
Mabberley cross-examined and worried,
an d "

11 Why, of course not," said Mr. Horn-dean,
interrupting her eagerly. "The poor
woman has enough to bear, with the loss
she has brought on you and herself, and
the mortification of finding out that she
has been a fool where she thought herself
a genius. But why should anyone cross-examine
or worry her, if you don't ? I
can't see it. Especially my sister. What
business is it of hers ?"

"I thought," answered Beatrix, with
captivating shyness, so novel to her that
it was a fresh delight to her lover to observe
it, " that when you tell her of our
engagement, and  and our plans, she would
be sure to talk all about my position, and
those odious ' settlements,' that seem to bethe
chief thing when people in our world
marry."

Very likely she may want to know, and
perhaps she may ask," said Mr. Horndean,
with sternness in his face and voice which
carried a pleasant assurance to Beatrix ;

but it by no means follows that I shall
tell her ; and, in fact, I will not. Caroline
and I are very good, but we are not intimate,
friends, and we never shall be. Some
day I will tell you why, and all about it.
I am too happy, too richly blessed, to think
of old grievances, or to resent old injuries,
and it is only to set your dear, gentle heart
at rest about your friend that T even refer
to them by saying that, when Caroline
might have saved me from much harm by
taking an interest in my affairs, she did not
do so, and she shall never have a chance of
meddling with them now."

Does she know that ?"

I think she does ; she is too sharp to
be under any mistake about it. At all
events, she shall know it when 1 tell her
of my happiness. If she asks me any questions,
I will pull her up very sharp indeed."

But she must know about arrangements
?"

Certainly not ; no one except my solicitors

need know anything about them."
I wish," said Beatrix, with a smile that
might have won her the fulfilment of any
wish within her lovers power of granting 
I wish we could be married without any
settlements at all. There's nothing now of
mine to be ' tied up and nobody to tie it,
and I would not have it tied if there were.
What do we want with settlements, and a
lawyer, Frederick, to vulgarise our marriage,
and take your time up P"

"What, indeed, if you will trust me, my
queen ?"

Trust you, when you are giving me
everything ! Oh, Frederick !"

"Then we will have no lawyer, and no
business ' about our marriage, dearest, and
there will be a double advantage in keeping
clear of everything of the kind."
Will there ? What advantage ?"
"This: In addition to the fulfilment of
your wish, nothing need be known of poor
Mrs. Mabberley's indiscretions until we are

man and wife, and then it will not be of any
consequence."

I see that; how clever and dear of you
to think of it," said Beatrix, with a secret
thrill of exultation at having brought him
so exactly to the point she had desired, but
hardly hoped to reach. She had shot the
rapids, she was in safe, smooth, shining
water again  all was well. Now she might
be free from fear, and scheming, and uneasiness,
and give herself up to the happiness
of her love, and the brightness of her prospects.
Mrs. Townley Gore could do her
no harm with Frederick, and her bondage
to Mrs. Mabberley w r ould soon be a thing
of the past, like a bad dream.

It was unpleasant to have to report progress
to Mrs. Mabberley; but Beatrix did
this with the best grace she could.

Mrs. Mabberley heard her to the end
without interruption, and made this mental
comment upon the little narrative :

She has more brains than I gave her

credit for  almost enough to have made it
safe to trust her. She has played her game
remarkably well, and mine even better."

To Beatrix she said, in her lowest,
smoothest tone,

It is fortunate that Mr. Horndean is a
person so easy to deal with. His consideration
for me is quite touching. When you
are mistress of Horndean, and I am in
Canada, my unfortunate speculations will
afford a subject for gossip as harmless to
both of us as it will be amusing to our
friends. You may let Mr. Horndean announce
his coming bliss to his sister as soon
as you please now ; indeed, the sooner the
better, as he is in so commendable a state
of mind. And you had better consult Mrs.
Townley Gore about your trousseau. That
will be sisterly and nice, and judicious too,
for you can order it regardless of expense,
and she will not know who is to pay for it."

I suppose you mean that Mr. Horndean
will have to do that ?"

Of course. My unlucky speculations
come in conveniently there too. He is
never likely to ask you whether you ordered
your trousseau before, or after, you made
that terrible discovery. You have no money,
I suppose ?"

I am as rich as I was the day you invited
me to come to you," said Beatrix,
bitterly, " with the difference that I have
lost my mother's pearls. I have just five
pounds."

You shall have some money for small
expenses. Those pearls are a sad loss ; the
value of them, if you had been obliged to
sell them, would have more than paid all
you have cost me."

I should never have sold them," said
Beatrix, angrily ; " and there was no question
of repaying you."

In money ? Certainly not, my dear ;
that is a correct statement, and mine was
an idle remark ; only I was not sure that
you were aware of the actual value of the

pearls, as distinguished from their sentimental
value. You will soon be indemnified
for both, no doubt. Mr. Horndean
will give you jewels, of course, and you
will have the use of the heirlooms that
Mrs. Townley Gore is so fond of talking
about. They will become you, Beatrix;
you are just the style of woman to wear
massive jewellery; and I suppose it would
be contrary to Horndean ideas to have them
reset."

I don't know' answered Beatrix, with
superb indifference. " Nothing has been
said about them. If Mr. Horndean speaks
of them to me, I shall request him to leave
them alone until afterwards. I do not care
about them."

You surprise me ; I should have thought
you would have cared very much about
them. It will be another matter with jewels
of your own  paraphernalia, I believe those
are called. I hope Mr. Horndean will be
liberal in that way."

"Thank you," said Beatrix, coldly, "but
I have told him I will not accept any other
gift than this." She held out her left hand ;
a splendid ring formed of diamonds and.
cat's-eyes adorned the third finger. " He
brought it to me to-day."

Mrs. Mabberley inspected the ring closely,
holding the firm, white hand of Beatrix in
her thin, yellow fingers with a strange,
nervous clutch. A tinge of colour rose in
her whitey-brown cheek, a spark of eagerness
shone in her dull, grey eyes, as she
pored over the five large stones.

You're a fool," she said, " not to have
a set of these while you can get them. No
man is ever so generous, or has so quick an
eye for the becoming, afterwards. Take
my advice; change your mind, and have a
set."

She relinquished Beatrix's hand as if reluctantly,
and her glance followed the ring.

No," said Beatrix ; " I shall keep to my
intention. I daresay you are right about

men in general ; but if I choose to believe
that I have found an exception to the
rule, and it's a delusion, I harm nobody but
myself."

As you please, my dear," said Mrs.
Mabberley. " And now I fear I must dismiss
you."

Beatrix left her and went to her own
room, where she found Delphine. The success
of her scheme, the pleasure of her
lover's visit, the sense of approaching
emancipation and safety, an undefined feeling
of relief with respect to Mrs. Townley
Gore, and even a natural and harmless
gratification in the possession of her beautiful
ring, rendered Beatrix unusually complacent,
and disposed to unbend a little
even towards the detested Delphine. She
actually showed her the ring, and told her
that she was going to be married.

It would have taken an expert physiognomist
to discern, when Delphine respectfully
congratulated her mistress, that she

had been aware of the fact almost as soon
as Beatrix herself, and that it possessed an
interest for her, apart from her own apparent
concern in it.

Mr. Horndean was not mistaken in his
notions of how his sister would receive the
intelligence of his intended marriage. She
was prepared for it, and at least resigned toit.
She was also keenly alive to the
difficulty of her relations with her brother,
and their tendency to become " strained " at
any moment, or through the least imprudence
on her part. She met the situation
with tact and temper, reminded Frederick
how she had predicted his captivation by
Miss Chevenix, wished him all happiness,
and remarked that nothing could be more
satisfactory to herself individually, as Beatrix
was the one girl in the world whom she
really found companionable.

And, as for her having no relatives or
connections, it does not matter," Mrs. Townley
Gore went on to say, " she is so well

post in society on her own account. After
all, people-inlaw are generally rather a
bore ;  apropos, what does that neutral-tinted
creature, Mrs. Mabberley, say to it ?"

Much that she might be expected to
say to so important an affair of the person
whom she had treated like a daughter,"
answered Mr. Horndean, in a tone which
gave his sister instant warning ; " that she
is very glad, and thinks me very lucky."

"You can't blame me, and I am sure
Beatrix won't, for saying that I think the
luck is equally shared between you."

Thus did Mrs. Townley Gore retrieve her
one slight blunder, and then she wanted
to know the earliest hour at which Beatrix
could receive her, and sent Frederick off
with a charming little twisted note to her
sister-in-law elect. This Beatrix justly
regarded as the sign and seal of the day's
success.

I think of Morrison for most of the

things. She knows what suits me," said
Beatrix, addressing herself to Mrs. Townley
Gore.

The scene of the interview was a room
in the house in Kaiser Crescent, which had
come to be known as Beatrix's, and the
occasion was the confidential half-hour before
dressing-time. The friends were sitting
close to a bright fire, each within the shelter
of an embroidered screen, And Delphine
was folding and putting away some lace
which they had just been inspecting.

You cannot do better. I am quite sorry
I gave her up."

"Ah! yes, by-the-by, so you did. I
never knew why."

It was on account of an unpleasant
affair about that Miss Rhodes, whom Mr.
Townley Gore took up in such an absurd
way. You saw her once or twice, I
think?"

"Yes, I remember her perfectly."

Well, my dear, I don't mind telling

you now, though I did not care to do so
before, that the girl insisted upon leaving
our house in Paris, and betaking herself
to Madame Morrison's. She had been at
school with a niece of hers, or a cousin, or
something, and there was a romantic
friendship between them. I was delighted
to get rid of Miss Rhodes, but it was not
pleasant to have any sort of relation with
the people she was with. Mr. Townley
Gore had absurdly allowed her to call herself
his ward  altogether it would not have
done. But there's not the least reason
why you should take any notice of the

transaction."


Is Miss Rhodes with these people
still ?"

I have not the slightest idea," answered
Mrs. Townley Gore, with unaffected apathy.
11 She was with them in Paris when we last
heard of her, in the summer."

Delphine had been standing quite still in
front of an open wardrobe, with her back to

VOL. III. L

the speakers, during this dialogue, and she
had listened with keen attention. When
they passed away from the subject of Miss
Rhodes to other talk, she noiselessly closed
the wardrobe doors, and left the room
unobserved.

On the following day two letters addressed
to Madame Morrison were dispatched
from Mrs. Townley Gore's house. One
was Miss Chevenix's order for wedding
clothes on a scale of which Mrs. Mabberley
would have fully approved, had she been
consulted ; the other was an anonymous and
ill-spelt letter written in French, in the
following terms :

Madame,  You are the friend of Madame
Lisle. You ought to know something
that much concerns her. They "say she is
in Paris with you, and I hope this is true,
for so you will be able to let her know that
she may hear of her husband at a place
called Horndean, near Notley, in Hampshire,

England. He was there a short
time ago, and the writer of this letter saw
him."

l2

CHAPTER VII.

delphine's discovery.

II 1" RS. MABBERLEY was busy in her
-V-*" morning-room, and had given orders
that she was not to be disturbed for anything
short of a telegram. She had always been
a much-occupied woman, but of late her
cares seemed to have undergone a sensible
increase, she had become less exacting towards
Miss Chevenix, troubling herself
hardly at all about her movements, and
being satisfied to know that she was with
Mrs. Townley Gore a good deal.

There were no close observers to take
note of Mrs. Mabberley's doings ; from any
movement of curiosity on the part of Beatrix

she was well aware that she would be
secured by the invincible indifference of her
young friend, and her servants were
thoroughly drilled. They were well paid
and well treated, but there was not one of
them who did not know that, if the slightest
annoyance to Mrs. Mabberley were produced
by servants' hall gossip, the immediate
loss of a very comfortable place would
be the result.

The quiet, insignificant little woman had a
wonderful faculty of compelling obedience,
perhaps because she conveyed the impression,
when there was occasion, that she was
entirely inaccessible to any movement of
pity. The idea of remonstrating with Mrs.
Mabberley, was not one to be entertained
by those who were brought into immediate
contact with her. She took a secret and
vindictive pleasure in the consciousness that
she had reduced Beatrix to obedience, and
on looking forward, as she was now doing,
to the break up of her present mode of life,

and the transfer of herself and her possessions
to another country, she almost regretted
the relinquishment of that exercise
of power. There was none that had ever
yielded her more concentrated, concealed,
and silent satisfaction: it gratified at once her
dislike of Beatrix, and a certain grudge which
she cherished against the memory of Mr.
Chevenix. Risky as such a step would,
to her full knowledge, have been, Mrs.
Mabberley would have married Beatrix's
father if he had asked her, and she had often
speculated upon his doing so as the readiest
way of settling certain outstanding accounts
between them ; for the " frugal mind " of
Mrs. Mabberley was never diverted, by the
sentimental, from the practical view of any
question. Mr. Chevenix had, however, not
asked her. For this omission his daughter
had unconsciously paid, although Mrs.
Mabberley kept to the letter of the bargain
that had been made between herself and
Beatrix.

This bargain was the subject of her
cogitation now, and she was thinking how
easily, on the whole, Beatrix had fulfilled
her share of it, and how fortunate she had
been. The turning-up of such a trump-card
as Mr. Horndean in such a game as they
were playing, was indeed an extraordinary
piece of luck. That he was a gambler,
momentarily diverted from the indulgence
of his favourite vice, by the irruption into
his life of a temporarily stronger passion,
Mrs. Mabberley was aware, and that he
would probably take to gambling again,
when the new passion had been gratified,
she did not doubt : but that was the affair
of Beatrix, who certainly was not such a
fool  albeit she was in love with Mr. Horn-dean
 as to suppose she was going to marry
a man without vices. Mrs. Mabberley
smiled a little as she thought how unusually
fair a match it would be between these
two, when they should have settled down
to the life-long scrimmage of matrimony.

She had a sound, though of course a secret,
contempt for Mr. Horndean, and would
have backed Beatrix to any extent to win
in the long run, if she had not been in love
with him.- Mrs. Mabberley distrusted mixed
motives ; they divided one's forces, they
disturbed one's calculations, they prevented
that concentration of mind and purpose
which she had found so useful  indeed, so
indispensable. But she could not waste
time in looking beyond Beatrix's palpable
good luck : in the future she must fight her
own corner, and Mrs. Mabberley would not
be there to observe with impartial curiosity
how she did it.

In the silent, unobtrusive manner that washer
way of doing everything, Mrs. Jabber
had been for some time making preparations
for leaving London. Some valuable
and ugly articles of furniture and ornament
had been quietly disposed of. There was
no one in particular to miss them, or to
notice that the house had gradually assumed

the dull and spare aspect of a house to be
let furnished, and was in all respects limited
to the strictly necessary. The removal of
these articles, and also that of some heavy
boxes, which were accompanied by Mrs.
Mabberley herself in a cab, had taken place
in the absence of Beatrix, but this might
easily have been an accidental occurrence,
for whenever Miss Chevenix could find a
reasonable excuse for going out and staying
out, she availed herself of it, and Mrs.
Townley Gore, whose complaisance for her
brother was all that could be desired, was
very ready to furnish her with such excuses.
The depletion of the house did not attract
the attention of Beatrix, but it was not
accomplished without the knowledge of
Delphine.

She is getting ready to be off," said
Delphine to herself; u I wonder whether
she means to save herself before or after ?
It does not signify much to me, because she
cannot go, either before or after, without

settling with me. And I wonder when I
shall receive my final instructions. My
faith ! I shall be content, for I hate this
England." And then Delphine permitted
herself to indulge in visions of a future, in
which a snug and remunerative business and
a smart husband played a part, and she was
philosophically indifferent to Miss Chevenix's
temper. "Somebody else will have to
bear that, by-and-by," she reflected, " without
being nearly as well paid as I shall have
been."

This was before Delphine discovered 
from the conversation between Mrs. Townley
Gore and Beatrix  what had become of
Madame Lisle. From that moment her
indifference vanished, and, for reasons of her
own, she took a vigilant interest in all that
was going on. Beatrix habitually spoke to
her in French, and was apt to forget that
Delphine understood English, and Mrs,
Townley Gore never troubled herself to
think of Delphine at all. Thus she constant

expected to hear some further mention
of Madame Lisle. She heard none, however
; that subject was entirely without
interest to the friends. She was now as
eager for information about the marriage as
she had been devoid of curiosity respecting
it ; she wanted to know exactly what was
the time fixed, at what church the wedding
would take place, and where the happy pair
were to go to for their honeymoon. The
time was only vaguely named as yet ; " some
day in January" Miss Chevenix had said,
and this pleased Delphine ; there would be
plenty of time for the doing of that which
she wanted to have done. She might even
have the satisfaction of seeing it done, as
she lead not yet been told at what time she
was to leave Miss Chevenix ; she only knew
that she was not to remain with her after
her marriage.

Miss Chevenix had gone out with Mrs.
Townley Gore before luncheon, on the dark,
dull, wintry day that Mrs. Mabberley was

devoting to business, when Delphine was
told that she was wanted in the morning*
room. Just as she reached the ground-floor,
Mr. Ramsden came out of the room, and
said, with a familiar leer as he passed
her :

Any news of the famous pearls ?"

Without waiting for a reply, he went
out of the house, closing the door noiselessly
behind him.

I hate that man," said Delphine to herself,
" and, when I can do him a bad turn
without harming myself, I will give myself
that pleasure. It is not yet, but it will
come. '

I sent for you," said Mrs. Mabberley,
to say that I shall want you to leave London
just before Christmas."

"That is very soon," said Delphine,
disconcerted and disappointed.

11 Yes, it is sooner than I had intended,
but it will make no difference to you. Miss
Chevenix wishes to have her new maid with

her for a little while before her marriage,
so that she may get used to her."

"Is the new maid engaged? Does madam e
know her?"

I believe Miss Chevenix is making
arrangements, but I know nothing about
them, or the person concerned. You will
attend strictly to the instructions I am now
giving you. To-morrow you will have a
letter from your father, telling you that your
mother is ill, and that you must return at
once. You will regret to have to leave
Miss Chevenix, but you cannot consent
to remain beyond next Thursday morning.
You must make all your preparations, and
on Thursday you will leave London for
Paris ; but you will not go by the mail, as
you are to be supposed to do, but by Newhaven
and Dieppe, and you will remain at
Dieppe until you receive instructions from
me.

I understand, then, that I am still in.
madame's service?"

Certainly. You shall hear from me,
or perhaps see me within a few days. You
will go to the place written down on this
paper, and stay there, keeping quiet and
attracting no attention."

And if anything should prevent the
arrival of madame ?"

"You mean, if I should attempt to
deprive you of your place, and cheat you of
your pay? Well, I do not blame you for
the doubt, I rather admire your prudence ;
but it is over-scrupulous. I always discharge
debts of this kind for my own sake.
When you leave London you shall take your
pay with you, although you still remain in
my service."

I hope madame will forgive me ; I did

not intend  madame need not fear "

stammered Delphine, cowed by the cold,
even tone, and the single instantly-shifted
glance of the only person of whom she was
afraid.

I do not fear anyone or anything," said

INIrs. Mabberley, quietly, raising her right
hand and letting it fall noiselessly on the
desk before her  a familiar movement of
hers to which Beatrix had a special dislike ;
I am satisfied of your fidelity, because it
is necessary to your own safety. You will
leave everything that is in your charge in
as good order as possible. You can go
now; I shall have no more to say to you
until you come tomorrow to tell me of the
letter from your father."

Mrs. Mabberley resumed her writing, and
Delphine left the room, puzzled and foiled.
Unless that which she wished to see done
were done quickly, she should derive no
gratification from it. She was equally
anxious to do one person a service, and
another person an injury, by the letter she
had written, and it would be very hard on
her not to know whether she had succeeded
in doing either.

Delphine could not indulge in reflection
just then; she had to take to Kaiser Crescent

the things Miss Chevenix would require
for a three days' visit, and to be there intime
to dress her for dinner.

Mrs. Townley Gore's drawing-room was
an animated scene late on that afternoon.
The drawn curtains, numerous alights,
and cheerful wood fire, offered a delightful
contrast to the cold, damp, and darkness
outside ; rare hothouse plants with shining
leaves adorned the rooms in single spies,
and beyond were the battalions of the conservatory,
with its scented fountain, and its
shaded lamps. Tea, with all its comfortable
accessories, was in progress, and some
subject of interest, sufficient to collect the
scattered talkers who had met there by
accident into a group in which a serious
discussion was being carried on, had been
started among the ten persons who were
present. Mrs. Townley Gore, sitting by
the tea-table, was examining a drawing held
in a position convenient to her eyes by her
brother. Beatrix, occupying the central

position on a large sofa, between two very
elegantly-dressed ladies, had a big flat
book of coloured fashion-plates on her
knees, and Frank Lisle, who had taken
possession of a footstool and placed himself
in front of her, was pointing out the claims
of a Hungarian costume depicted on the
open page. The subject under discussion
was a fancy ball, which was to take place
early in January, at the house of a celebrated
artist, and to which " all the world "
was going. The occupants of Mrs. Townley
Gore's drawing-room were, in their opinion
at least, no inconsiderable items of that
world, and the costumes which they were
to assume had been imparted and debated
with much interest. Only Beatrix had not
yet made up her mind what she would wear
at the fancy-ball, which was to witness her
last appearance in public as Miss Chevenix,
The drawing that Mr. Horndean was showing
to Mrs. Townley Gore was a sketch by
Frank Lisle, of a stately woman, with some
VOL. III. M

resemblance to Beatrix, in the quaint rich
dress of the noble ladies of old Hungary.

Here it is in detail," said Mr. Lisle,
pointing to the coloured plate in the volume
on Beatrix's knee, ll and nothing could be
more becoming. So uncommon, too ; one
is so tired of the eternal Mary Stuart,
the inevitable Queen Elizabeth, the Swiss
peasants, and the French fishermen  I
hope no one here is hurt by my remarks 
that a little originality is desirable. Do be
persuaded, Miss Chevenix."

The dress is very rich and grand-looking,"
said Beatrix, "but the effect is greatly
due to the ornaments and their arrangement.
And I have no jewels  indeed, I
suppose nobody has any  that could be put
on in this way. Look at those bosses, and
clasps, and that girdle."

Mr. Horndean had now joined the group
at the sofa, and he exchanged a look with
Mr. Lisle,

"There will not be the slightest difficulty
about that," said Frank ; " I know lots of
places where things just like those can be
hired. They are not real, of course ; but
nobody wants them to be real. That will
be all right. Do make up your mind, it
will be a tremendous success."

To this there was a general assent, and
Beatrix, looking up to see what her lover
thought of the suggestion, for he had not
yet said anything, perceived that he was
awaiting her decision with positive eagerness.


Do you really like it?" she asked him,
with the rarely-assumed gentleness that
was so fascinating in her ; and then, with a
smile that even Frank Lisle felt to be absolutely
beautiful, she added : " Then I decide
on this at once. Thank you, Mr. Lisle ;
with your sketch and this combined, the
costume will be perfect, I am sure. And I
leave myself in your hands about the
ornaments."

m 2

"It was a pleasant surprise to see Mr,
Lisle to-day," said Beatrix to Mr. Horn-dean,
when they met for what he called
"those precious moments " before dinner.
I had no idea he was in London."

"Nor was he; but he had fortunately
only got so far as Paris on his way to Italy ;
there were some Coots to be seen somewhere,
and Frank forgot even climate for
them, when I had your leave to write and
tell him my good news. I put it to him so
very strongly that I could not do without
him, and that he might get away again when
we do ; so he turned back, like the best of
fellows as he is, and dropped in at my
rooms this morning with a portmanteau and
a portfolio, just as cheerily as if he had not
come out of sunshine into a black hole."

"Mr. Lisle carries his sunshine with him,
and turns it on, I think."

Then Beatrix was rapturously assured
for the thousandth time or so that she was
an angel, and a very pretty and ardent

love scene was enacted during the ten
minutes preceding the arrival of the guests.
Mr. Lisle was amon? the number. He
continued to enjoy a distinguished place in
the good graces of Mrs. Townley Gore, and
he was always acceptable to her husband.

An artist who does not think himself
the first among living painters, and who
takes an interest in other things, is a black
swan." Such had been Mr. Townley Gore's
pronouncement upon Frank Lisle ; thus it
will be seen that a singular uniformity of
opinion respecting Mr. Horndean's friend
prevailed in the Townley Gore household.

On the following day (Tuesday) Delphine
informed Miss Chevenix that she would be
obliged to leave on Thursday morning, and
Beatrix received the intimation with the
bad temper and absence of sympathy that
her maid expected.

c 'If my mother had been really dying,"
said Delphine to herself, " I should have
liked to strangle this woman, who would

have heard of it with as much feeling as a
frog, and thinks we have no right to feelings,
because we serve people like her for
wages."

Beatrix complained to Mrs. Townley
Gore of the " nuisance " of Delphine's departure
before the highly-recommended
person who was to replace her could possibly
arrive, and of the " bore " of family
affections among people of that class. Mrs.
Townley Gore agreed with Beatrix ; she
did not understand why people who could
not afford to gratify their feelings should
listen to them at all.

The accord of sentiment between the two
ladies did not, however, prevent the carrying
out of Mrs. Mabberley's instructions by
Delphine. The pre-occupation of Beatrix
with the important question of how she was
to replace Delphine on Thursday, with the
least possible diminution of her own personal
comfort, probably prevented her from
making any remark from which Delphine

might have learned that Mr. Lisle had returned
from Paris to join his friend in London,
or that Mr. Hornclean and Mr. Lisle
were going to Horndean on the ensuing
Thursday, on business which they kept
strictly to themselves.

And so you won't tell me, Frederick,
what you and Mr. Lisle are ' running down '
to Horndean for; and I am to take it for
granted that your purpose enfolds a delightful
surprise for me ?"

Thus spoke Beatrix, as she stood, encircled
by Frederick's arm, about to say
farewell to him on Wednesday. He and
Frank Lisle were going down by an afternoon
train. Mr. Horndean had confessed
that there was a secret involved in his visit
to Horndean, but he had also declared that
she would be much pleased when she learned
the nature of it, and that he had the additional
motive of wishing to make, in person,
some provision for the entertainment of
his humbler neighbours and the poor for

the coming Christmas. Beatrix treated this
in a scoffing spirit which even her lover
could hardly regard as angelic.

Pray do not give way to the long-descended
ancestry kind of sentiment, Frederick,"
she said. " It would do just as well
if you sent these people some money. You
are not rooted in the soil, you know, like
the Charlecotes  until they tore themselves
up by their roots  and the role of a territorial
providence will be horribly tiresome."


Mr. Horndean looked a little hurt ; there
was a gibing and exceeding bitter spirit
about Beatrix which puzzled him, and
sometimes almost frightened him. Could
she be so happy in his love as she declared
herself to be, and view all the world beside
to which his heart warmed because he
was happy  with that cold and cruel glance ?
But he hated a mental misgiving as much
as he hated a sensation of physical discomfort,
and when one assailed him he got rid

of it as speedily. She, too, felt that she
had made a mistake, and, resting her head
on his shoulder, she said softly, while her
fair hand stole gently round his neck, and
her lips touched his cheek :

You will promise me, dearest, that
the secret which I am soon to know, shall
be the very last you will ever keep from
me ?"

The last, my own, own love, the very
last,"

On the following clay, Delphine took
leave of Miss Chevenix, and (all the promised
conditions having been punctually
fulfilled by Mrs. Mabberley) set out for
Dieppe. She was of two minds in going
away. The one was a disappointed mind ;
but she consoled it by reflecting that she
could not be prevented from learning what
should happen in the matter that interested
her, even should she have to come back to
England when she was done with Mrs.

Mabberley, for that purpose. The other was
a contented mind, for it reflected that she
was safe from all risk of implication in that
something to which she referred in her
thoughts as " it," speculating whether Mrs.
Mabberley would leave England before or
after " it."

It chanced that Mrs. Townley Gore and
Beatrix, in their afternoon drive on that
day, passed through Chesterfield Street, and
the former, looking out at Beatrix's former
home, said to her companion :

You did not tell me that you had lost
your tenants, Beatrix. When did the Rams-dens
give up the house ?"

Beatrix also looked out quickly, and saw
the house, evidently unoccupied, and with
bills upon the windows : " To be let, furnished
or unfurnished." She turned very
red and looked both angry and foolish.*

Mrs. Mabberley takes my business matters
off my hands very completely indeed,"
she said. " I did not know that Colonel

Ramsden had given up the house, and that
it was to be let again."

Indeed !" said Mrs. Townley Gore, with
that slightly insolent raising of the eyebrows
to which she had resorted of late much less
often in her intercourse with Beatrix ; " that
is being useful. Do you know, I think I
should hardly like it ? Women of business,
as they call themselves, always have a
way of treating other women like babies."

I don't like it," said Beatrix, " but she
means well, and she is always ready to take
trouble for one."

She has not helped you in the matter of
your maid."

No," said Beatrix, angrily and incautiously;
"because my maid will no longer be
her servant."

c< Her servant ! What do you mean ?"

11 Oh, it's hardly worth talking of, but.
when I agreed to live with Mrs. Mabberley,
she made it a condition that I should take a
maid of her selection, and that she should

be at liberty to dismiss her if she thought
proper. She said she must always be mistress
in her own house, and could not have
anyone in it who was not under her control
to that extent."

c ' Very extraordinary ! I would not have
accepted the condition. I should have been
afraid of the character it indicated. It was
weak of you, Beatrix."

u Perhaps it was."

No more was said.

As the carnage approached Mrs. Townley
Gore's house, Mrs. Mabberley's brougham
moved off to give place to it, and Beatrix
found that Mrs. Mabberley was waiting to
see her. She had come to bring her some
trivial message about her costume for the
ball, and to ascertain when she meant to
return to Hill Street.

Beatrix, irritated by Mrs. Townley Gore's
sneer, spoke sharply of her annoyance at
being left in ignorance about the house in
Chesterfield Street.

Mrs. Mabberley answered with her usual
imperturbability :

"Your own affairs? You forget that
you have none, as yet. I can excuse you,
however ; the prospect of independence has
obscured your judgment, or you would not
talk in a way to oblige me to remind you of
the fact,"

What has become of the Rainsdens?"

They have gone abroad again. You
will see no more of them."

"I never intended to see any more of
them."

Mrs. Mabberley rose to go.

"On Saturday, then," she said. " Will
Mr. Horndean dine with us ?"

Thank you for asking him," said Beatrix,
"but I cannot answer for him. Mr.
Lisle has come back to London, and they
have gone down to Horndean for a few
days ; I don't know exactly when they return."


Mrs. Mabberley had approached the
door, accompanied by Beatrix; her face
was in shadow, and so Beatrix did not
see the ashy paleness that overspread it.
Neither did she notice that for an instant
Mrs. Mabberley tottered on her feet. It
was only for an instant ; the next she recovered
herself, and took leave of Beatrix with
the remark that the dinner engagement
might stand over for the first day Mr.
Horndean could give them. She got into
her carriage, to be taken home, and then,
leaning back, well out of sight, she let the
fury and the fear within her escape in muttered,
broken words.

Gone to Horndean ! And Delphine
said nothing of this. What's to be done ?
I cannot stop it now ; I don't know where
he is, or what name he goes by. The
others are off  all safe. No getting at
them if they knew. And it may be tonight."


She wrung her hands hard and groaned ;
but by the time she reached her own house
she had taken a resolution.

"It is six o'clock," she said; "I have
thirteen hours in which to provide against
the worst. I'll do it."

CHAPTER VIII.

GHOSTS.

"1 /TR. HORNDEAN and Frank Lisle had
-*-*-*- a pleasant journey. Everything, even
the weather, which had taken up again after
one wet day, was looking bright for the
happy lover of Beatrix. It was vexatious
that his beautiful betrothed should have
had all that trouble, and Mrs. Mabberley
was a fool, but in reality the matter did not
distress Mr. Harden. He was perfectly
indifferent about money, on the simple condition
that he always had as much as he
wanted. He was in high good-humour
with his friend, the ready sacrifice of whose
plans and wishes to his own did, for once,

strike Mr. Horndean as a trait of amiability ;
for lie knew how the sun-loving soul of the
painter hated the English winter. And he
was delighted with their present errand at
Horndean ; for it had the adornment of
Beatrix for its object, the rendering of a
fresh testimony to her beauty, and to his
worship of it.

The idea had occurred to Frank Lisle on
the occasion of the first discussion of the
projected fancy ball, that the precious
stones which formed a portion of the Horn-dean
collection, and especially the famous
Hungarian garnets, would complete with
striking effect the rich and uncommon costume
that he hoped to induce Beatrix to
wear. The jewels were ancient, and of
considerable value, and their form was
exactly that required : the circular head-tire
of gold was studded with uncut stones ;
the girdle had long ends of wrought gold
and iron, with clasps, fringes, and bosses of
the ricci garnets of Bohemia and Magyar-vol.

nr. n

land ; the stomacher had bosses of the
same ; and in the collar and bracelets, of
more modern date and extraordinarily fine
workmanship, a profusion of stones was
employed. Of all the objects in the collection,
Beatrix admired these garnets the
most ; there were gems of greater value
there, but the richness and the quaintness of
this parure pleased her, and she had been
quite interested in Mrs. Townley Gore's
account of old Mr. Horndean's acquisition
of the precious things, and his pride in the
recognition of their value by rival collectors.
His heir and successor would have continued
to regard them as " a parcel of valuable
rubbish shut up in a box, and bound to stay
there "  according to his contemptuous designation
of them to Frank Lisle  if they
had not been glorified by Beatrix's admiration,
and if the artistic Frank had not instructed
him in their beauty. That they
should be used for the adornment of his
betrothed was a delightful idea. Beatrix

would be the observed of all observers, of
course, in any costume, but Mr. Horndean
looked forward to her success, thus splendidly
and singularly arrayed, with the triumph
of a lover, and Frank Lisle with the satisfaction
of an artist. It had been agreed
that the friends should go to Horndean,
select the jewels from the case, of which
Mr. Horndean had the keys, and take them
back to London to be arranged for Beatrix's
use. She was to know nothing about the
matter until the parure should be complete ;
and this was the harmless secret which her
lover had promised should be the very last
he would ever keep from her.

Frank Lisle also was very happy in his
easy way as they travelled down to Horn-dean
in a comfortable smoking-carriage,
talking pleasantly in the intervals of newspaper
reading. Mr. Lisle had made up his
mind to his friend's marriage ; it could not
be helped ; the red-haired witch was heartily
in love, at all events. That said more

n 2

for her than Mr. Lisle had expected ; and
Mr. Horndean's latest and severest " fit "
was certainly keeping him from gambling.

They arrived at Horndean in time for
dinner, and, late in the evening, they went
to the long drawing-room, where the cases
containing the collection were placed, as has
already been described. A bright, wood
fire was burning, the room was partially
lighted, but, nevertheless, its aspect was
gloomy. The long range of cases, hidden by
securely locked covers, that occupied the
recesses underneath the bookcases, the sheeted
cabinets, swathed-up lustres, generally
out-of-use furniture, and the full-dressed
portraits seemed to be in discord with
the fire and the light.

"I wonder whether old Mr. Horndean
 walks,' " said Frank Lisle. " This looks a
likely sort of place for a ghost. Perhaps he
keeps guard over his treasures, and won't
like our meddling with them. I say, Fred r
I hope we shan't see the old fellow."

Mr. Horndean did not smile, and he made
rather an odd answer to Frank Lisle's foolish
speech.

"Do you?" said he, sadly. " I think I
should like to have the chance of saying
Thank you,' though only to his ghost."

The case which contained the jewels was
not one of those that occupied the recesses
under the bookcases. It was a separate
structure, placed in the centre of the long
room, between two beautiful, inlaid, marble
tables, and exactly opposite to a door masked
by tapestry, that communicated with a small
sitting-room which Mr. Horndean had used in
the summer, and which had now been made
ready for him and Mr. Lisle on the short
notice given to the housekeeper. This case
was composed of ebony and thick plate-glass,
and it stood on brass feet, which were
screwed into the floor. An oak cover fitted
over it like an extinguisher, and was secured
by an iron band passing under the bottom,
over the top, and along the sides ; this bar

was fastened by a padlock. They speedily-removed
the cumbrous cover, and revealed
the thick sheets of glass under which lay
the precious collection of gems, cut and uncut,
and the famous Hungarian parure, fitted
into its white-velvet case, and ticketed with
the dates, the origin, and the names of the
workers in precious metals whose cunning
skill had produced it.

Here they are," said Frank Lisle, " and
more of them than I thought. They will
do splendidly, when it is all put together.
Just look how the light gets into and shines-out
of the red hearts of them !"

Mr. Horndean looked at the jewels with
a new interest ; he could imagine how they
would set off the smooth, creamy whiteness
of Beatrix's matchless complexion. He was
impatient to see her wear them ; he hoped
they would console her for the loss of her
pearls.

They carried the jewels into the little

sitting-room, having carefully locked the case,
and replaced the cover, and Frank Lisle set
to work at once on the drawing, which they
were to place, with the parure, in the hands
of a jeweller.

v ' There will not be much to do," said
Frank Lisle. " Only a few clasps to set
right, and the head-circlet and the necklace
and stomacher to mount on velvet. There
will be plenty of time."

He went on with his drawing, and Mr.
Horndean smoked and read. He was not
in a talkative mood, and the stillness of the
big, empty house seemed to oppress him.
At length Frank Lisle completed the sketch
to their joint satisfaction, and after a little
desultory talk, and they were about to part
for the night :

"By-the-by," said Frank, "what had we
better do with the gimcracks ? It won't do
to leave them about here. Mrs. Grimshaw
will think there has been a robbery, and

that the thieves have abandoned a portion
of the spoil, if these are found onthe table
in the morning."

"Take them to your room, and put them
in your bag. And, Frank, remind me to
tell the old lady tomorrow that we have
taken these things ; she ought to know of
their removal. I suppose you will be early,
and I shall be late, as usual, in the morning."

Yes. I shall be off for a walk as early
as I can ; but I shall be back in plenty of
time for our start at eleven o'clock."

He wrapped the antique parure up in a
handkerchief, deposited the packet in his
dressing-bag, and, after a final admiring
contemplation of his sketch, bethought him
that as he contemplated a long walk in the
Chesney Manor and Notley Woods early on
the following morning, he had better get to
sleep at a reasonable hour.

When Mr. Horndean was alone, the depression
that had come over him increased.
He felt restless ; he hated the stillness, he

wanted to think of Beatrix, of nothing but
Beatrix, and he could not. Was the glass
falling ? Was a storm coming ? He was
sensitive to things of that kind, and he
drew back the window-curtains and looked
out, almost hoping to see an angry sky,
with black, scudding clouds and menace in
it. But there was nothing of the kind, the
sky was serene, and the moon was shining,
unveiled. Mr. Horndean drew the curtains
together with a clash, and sat down
before the fire, stirring the logs, and finding
a relief in the crackle with which they flung
off their sparks. What was the matter with
him ? Why did the past intrude itself now,
of all times, upon him : the needless, dead,
irreversible, unmeaning past ? Was it
Frank Lisle's jesting mention of that old
friend, that generous benefactor, whose patience
he had so sorely tried, whose kindness
he had so ill repaid, from whose deathbed
he had been absent (but that, at least, was
no fault of his own), that had done this?

Were there ghosts that took no form, and
yet could haunt men in the broad daylight
of their lives, in the full sunshine of their
happiness, coming back long after they had
been laid, and bringing the chill of doubt
and presentiment with them ? What was
this that was in the air around him ; threatening,
intangible, formless, but so real that
his skin shivered, and his heart sank at its
presence ? What was this that the fair face
of his betrothed Beatrix could not shut out,
when he summoned it up before his mind's
eye, and addressed the beautiful image in
murmured words of passionate endearment?
Whatever it was, he was determined to drive
it away by all the opposition which a happy
lover's rehearsal of his bliss could offer it.
He would write to Beatrix ; his letter would
reach her only a little before his own
arrival, but so much the better. She would
meet him with that wonderful look in her
starry eyes, and that intoxicating tone in
her low, clear voice, which made him half

mad while their spell was upon him. What
could all the ghosts of all the past, or even
that one ghost, feared the most of all, that
ghost gliding horribly near him now, do to
him then ? He almost laughed aloud as he
defied them.

Mr. Horndean wrote on steadily for two
hours. Never before had he written so
long a letter, and as he sealed it he wondered
whether Beatrix would keep it always,
or burn it at once. He had said so much
in that letter ; he had poured out his whole
soul to her, he had made vows and protestations
of love such as he had never
uttered to her in speech, even in the most
assured moments of their solitude and their
happiness; he had revealed and admitted
her empire over him, with lavish adulation
such as she had never yet received from
him ; for there was no restraining touch of
that cynical hardness which Beatrix showed,
even towards him, to check him in the worship
he was offering to her now. It was

such a letter as some women could not bear
to keep, lest it should ever come to be a
mocking memorial of a dead passion  these
would be women who knew the world. It
was such a letter as some women could not
bear to destroy, holding it an assurance of
the immortality of their treasure  these
would be the women who knew nothing of
the world. Mr. Horndean was well aware
that Beatrix was of the former class ; but
he did not reason at all upon the question
that suggested itself. Some day he
would ask her what she had done with his
last love-letter ; for this would be his last ;
they were not again to be a day without
meeting, until their marriage.

He placed the packet in full view upon the
mantel-shelf, and, the ghosts being all gone,
his serenity restored, and his mind exclusively
full of Beatrix, was about to undress,
when his eye fell on the coat he had worn
that morning, and he remembered that at

the moment of starting he had put some
unopened letters into its breast-pocket. He
had not thought of them until now, when
he resumed his seat, and looked over them.
They consisted of two or three notes of no
importance, and a letter, evidently unwelcome,
bearing an Indian postmark. Mr.
Horndean looked at the address with a
strange aversion, the expression of one in
whose memory a jarring chord is struck,
and with a visible effort, opened and read
the letter. Presently he let it fall into the
fender, and sat like a man stricken with
death, pale and motionless. The time
passed, and save when he passed his hand
across his forehead and uttered a deep sigh,
he remained in the same seemingly paralysed
state. The night was far advanced,
the candles were guttering in the sockets,
the last spark had died out amid the grey
ashes of the charred logs, when he rose,
shivering, and threw himself upon his bed.

The vague presence had taken form now,
and was close upon him ; he knew whose
was the ghost, now.

It was after eleven o'clock on the following
day when Frank Lisle, coming in, out
of breath, but in high spirits, found Mr.
Horndean waiting for him, without any
appearance of being prepared for their
journey.

I was almost afraid I should be late,
Fred," said Mr. Lisle. u I have had a run
for it, but I suppose my watch is wrong, as
usual. I ought to have allowed for that, like
Captain Cuttle."

You have plenty of time. Where have
you been ?"

"I started for Notley, and had a pleasant
walk ; the hedges were all sparkling with
the sun on the night frost. They're getting
on capitally with the restoration of the
spire. I saw the postman, and old Bob,
the carrier : I wish I hadn't been too modest

to ask him to sell rae his red waistcoat ; it's
fifty years old, at least, and the tone is
wonderful ! Then I turned into the manor,
and taking the short cut through the shrubbery,
by the copper-beech, you know, whom
should'' I meet but Mr. Warrender, two
little girls, and a white dog  my white
dog:  the one whose lea. I mended in the
autumn. "

"Yes, yes, I remember, you told me
about it," said Mr, Horndean, hurriedly,
and stooping to poke the fire unnecessarily.

u The children recognised me ; I introduced
myself, and in a few minutes I found
myself enrolled as a volunteer on a holly and
ivy-cutting expedition. My 'young friends
were very unwilling to part with me when
I had to leave them  bv which time the
attendant gardener's wheelbarrow was filled
and very anxious that I should join them
in the afternoon, when they are going to
dress up' the church they call 'Uncle's'
for Christmas."

Where is the church, and why do they
call it their ' Uncle's ' ?"

It is the little Catholic church, with a
pretty cottage within the enclosure, near
the west lodge of Chesney Manor. I suppose
the children call it their uncle's because
it is chiefly supported by him. Mr. Warren -
der is the only Catholic among the gentry
about here."

I understand. W T ell?"

I walked back with them to the house,
and Mr. Warrender invited me to dine, and
asked me to invite you, but I explained our
flying visit, and came away."

Did you see no one else ?"

tc No ; not belonging to the family. I
caught a glimpse of the governess, at the
door, as the children ran up the steps to
her. Such a pretty girl, Fred. I did not
observe her when I saw the children the
first time ; she is quite beautiful. But, my
dear fellow," added Frank, as he came
hastily towards Mr. Horndean and looked

curiously at him, "there's something wrong
with you. What is the matter ? Are
you ill ? Have you heard any bad news ?"

I have."

"What is it?"

I cannot tell you ! : '

You cannot tell me ! Why, Fred, what
do you mean? There you stand, looking
ill, and as if you had not slept all night,
and you acknowledge something has happened,
and you cannot tell me what it is."

I cannot tell you now," repeated Mr.
Horndean, laying his hand heavily on Frank
Lisle's shoulder, " but I will, before long.
I am in a difficulty, a great difficulty,
Frank, and you must help me, as you always
do ; only this time you must help me
blindfold for a little. I must be alone
here to-day. It is indispensable ; there is
something I must do  you shall know it
all soon, very soon ; but I must be alone
until it is done. I want you to go up to
town ; you must start in ten minutes, taking

VOL. III. o

the things with you, to settle about them
with the jewellers, and to send word to
Beatrix, who will be expecting me, that I
shall be detained here until after tomorrow
by business. Will you do this, Frank ?"

Of course I will, but "

You don't understand it. No, but do
I not promise that you shall ? I will tell
you all about it when I come up to town."

Is there any reason why I should not
return ? For how long do you want to be
alone ?"

For only a few hours."

Then I will come back to-night. You
need not see me until morning if you don't
like, but your looks are not at all to my
mind, and I shall come back to-night, by
the last train very likely, but to-night.
There's the dog-cart ; and there go my bag
and my coat into it. Good-bye, Fred."

Good-bye, Frank. You shall know all
tomorrow."

They shook hands and parted. Mr.

Horndean did not go to the door with his
friend, but, after the dog-cart had disappeared,
he remained lost in thought for
some time, and then returned to his own
room. There he took a small packet from
the tray of a despatch-box, placed it in his
pocket-book, and came downstairs again.
A few minutes later, he left the house,
passed through the shrubbery, jumped the
iron fence which formed the boundary between
the Chesney Manor lands and his
own, and, striking into the path that led
through Chesney Wood from east to west,
was soon lost to sight among the stems of
the gaunt, leafless trees.

In the meantime, Mrs. Masters's little
daughters had been relating the incidents
of their morning walk to their mother, who
was kept in the house by a cold, and to
Miss Rhodes, who had gladly availed herself
of that pretext to remain with her.

"Tippoo Sahib knew the strange gentleman
at once," said Maggie, cutting out

o 2

Maud in volubility and circumstantiality,
"and he was so glad to see him ; he sniffed,
and barked, and hopped like anything.
And the strange gentleman knew him, and
spoke to Uncle John, and then he came
with us to cut the holly and ivy, and I like
him so much that I mean to marry him
when I am as tall as Miss Rhodes."

And he drew a picture of the copper-beech
that Uncle John is so fond of before
we came home," struck in Maud, gaspingly,
and took Moo-Cow's portrait, and Jack's,
too "  Jack was a donkey  " and oh, do tell
me, Miss Ehodes, what is a bit of an artist?"

"A bit of an artist?" said Mrs. Masters,
smiling ; " why do you want to know that ?"

Because the gentleman said his name
was Frank Lisle, and he was a bit of an
artist, and I should like to marry him, too,
when he comes back."

Mrs. Masters glanced at Helen in alarm.
Here was what she had dreaded come upon

them ! Here was that she had endeavoured
to conceal revealed by an accident, which
she might easily have foreseen to be a probable
one. What was to be done now ?
She sent the children to their nurse before
she spoke again, and, when she and Helen
were alone, she said to her tenderly :

I have been very wrong, my dear girl.
I have known for some time that this man
was in the habit of coming to Horndean,
and that there might be danger of your
meeting him, and I did not tell you, fearing
to disturb your peace, and because I heard
that he had gone abroad for the whole winter.
Of course, the risk of your meeting
him now can be averted ; but I wish you
could have been spared this shock."

"There is some mistake," said Helen,
who was deadly pale, but quite composed.
I distinctly remember the person who set
Tippoo's leg. I was with the children when
the accident happened, I saw the gentleman,

and spoke to him then. He was a
perfect stranger to me !"

And yet his name is Frank Lisle, and
he is Mr. Horndean's friend."

Yes. It is strange ; it seems almost
impossible that there should be another of
the same name, also Mr. Horndean's friend - T
but this gentleman is not  he."

CHAPTER IX.

FACE TO FACE.

rpHE west lodge of Chesney Manor faced
*- the prettily laid out enclosure, within
which stood the Catholic church, and the
house which Mr. Warrender had built for
the use of the officiating priest. From the
little garden, with its privet hedges, and
the rustic porch, the west gate was plainly
to be seen, and there was also a view of a
picturesque bit of the park. The site of
the church and the cottage had formerly
made a portion of a fine wood which
skirted a gentle curve past a long stretch of
rising ground, and the small clearing was
backed and bounded on both sides by the

wood, all leafless and wintry now. The
sun was shining on the cottage and the
garden, and the long narrow windows of
the little church were glittering in its rays.
The doors of both church and cottage were
open, and there was an unusual stir about
the quiet scene. A couple of wheelbarrows
under the charge of a couple of boys, and a
light cart, drawn by an unmistakably pet
donkey  the Jack so well beloved of Mrs.
Masters's children  were stationed at the
side of the church nearest to the cottage,
and a tall, grey-haired man, wearing a long,
black cassock and a black velvet skull-cap,
and carrying a stumpy book under his arm,
was superintending the unloading of the
donkey-cart by Jack's driver. The contents
of the three vehicles were flowers in pots,
long shining garlands of holly and ivy, and
other winter greenery, and these were all
taken into the church.

"We are to go back for another load,"
said Jack's driver, "and I was to tell your

reverence that Miss Rhodes and the young
ladies are coming down at two o'clock."

Away went the man with the cart and
the boys with the barrows, and the priest,
going with them to shut the gate, observed
that a gentleman was standing on the pathway
at a little distance. Not knowing
whether the stranger meant to come in or
to pass on, the priest did not close the gate
upon the barrows, but stood at it, waiting.
There was a loitering, uncertain air about
this person, but the priest's attitude seemed
to decide him, and, lifting his hat, he said,

Mr. Moore, I think ?"

That is my name," answered the priest.
11 You wish to see me ? Will you walk
in?"

Thank you," said the stranger, complying
with the invitation; "I am glad of an
opportunity of making your acquaintance.
My name is Horndean."

Some desultory remarks followed, and
Mr. Moore was leading the way to his house

when Mr. Horndean, pausing at the open
door of the church, asked permission to
enter. They went in, and, while the stranger
looked about him at the unfamiliar scene,
the priest knelt for a few moments in front
of the altar.

The church was empty, save for a boy, in
the long coat of a sacristan, who was busy
about the altar ornaments ; and, after a
casual examination of its simple architecture
and decoration, Mr. Horndean's inspection
came to an end. Mr. Moore politely invited
him into the adjoining house, but he preferred
the open air, and was careful, while
talking to the priest, not to lose sight of the
gate and west avenue of Chesney Manor.
Something was said of the season, and the
decoration of the church, and Mr. Horndean
politely expressed a hope that in future Mr.
Moore would lay the shrubberies and gardens
of Horndean under contribution.

I am bountifully supplied for Christmas
by Chesney Manor," said Mr. Moore ; u but

I am obliged for your kind offer, and may
avail myself of it at Easter. You do not
remain at Horndean for Christmas, I believe?"


No. I am going away again, but soon
to return. Then I hope we shall be good
neighbours."

All this time he was intently watching
the west gate of Chesney Manor.

Mr. Moore made a civil reply, and was
secretly wondering what had brought Mr.
Horndean, whom he had not once seen
.during the months of his sojourn at Horn-dean,
to the retired nook at the Chesney
west gate, when his unaccountable visitor
took an abrupt leave of him, and walked
away towards the skirt of the wood. At
the same moment, Mr. Moore caught sight
of a group moving along the avenue of
Chesney Manor, and immediately crossed
the road to the west lodge to meet Miss
Ehodes and her little pupils. They preceded
the re-laden donkey-cart and wheelbarrows

; and they were accompanied by
their nurse. There was a good deal of
news for Mr. Moore : Uncle John was
coming presently, they might stay until it
was growing dark, and mamma had ordered
almost all the amelia to be cut for uncle's
church on Christmas Day.

Miss Rhodes was rather silent and apathetic,
and when she had hung up a few
wreaths, and given the boy in the long coat
some directions, she excused herself on the
plea of having to get back to Mrs. Masters,
and, leaving the children with their nurse to
await Mr. Warrender's arrival, she went
away, accompanied to the gate by Mr.
Moore. A side path through a plantation,
extending on the right of the gate lodge,
led by a circuitous route to the house, and
this was the way that Helen selected, with
the object of avoiding Mr. Warrender.
This had become her chief solicitude ; not
that anything on his part had made her
position more difficult than before, but because

she found the pain of it, the sense
that to her would be due the breaking up
of that happy home, the acute disappointment
of her kind and generous friends,
almost intolerable. This had such complete
possession of her mind that the incident of
the morning had faded in comparison ; the
thing was a puzzle, it might be a danger,
but it was not that which was almost choking
her: it was not that which made her
feel the house a prison, and the faces she
loved terrible. That morning, Helen had
resolved upon appealing to Jane, and as she
walked through the plantation, breathing
freely because she was alone, and might
indulge in all the trouble of her mind, undisturbed
by a solicitous look to cut her as
if with a keen reproach, she tried to
arrange the sentences in which she should
tell her friend how all that had been done
for her peace and protection had come to
nought.

"What wonder," she said to herself,

bitterly, and with smarting tears rolling
slowly over her cheeks, " if they think mean
unlucky, uncanny creature ; not fit to
help myself, and marring every endeavour
to help me ! What wonder if they should
blame me because he loves me, if they
should think that I have forgotten the
wretched truth, and led him into this great
mistake, evil, and sorrow."

She had been so absorbed in her thoughts,
she had so entirely yielded to the relief of
solitude, that she had not heeded the slight
rustling on the side of the plantation near
the park fence, which had accompanied her
own steps, and now, seeing a neatly-trimmed
log of timber by the inner side of the path
a little ahead of her, she quickened her
steps, and, seating herself upon it, gave unrestrained
way to tears. Presently they
were checked, her startled attention was
attracted by a stir among the trees in front
of her, and a little packet fell at her feet.
She started up, and looked around her in

some alarm, but there was no one in sight,
and she picked up the missile. It was
addressed, in pencil, to " Miss Rhodes," and
the sight of the handwriting made her feel
deadly faint. She sat down again, from
sheer inability to stand, and, trembling from
head to foot, she broke the seal. Not a
word was written on the paper, but it enclosed
the Apollo pin ! The pin which
Frank Lisle had given her, and she had
returned to him with the false wedding-ring,
the lying symbol of their pretended
marriage ; the pin which she knew had been
in his hands since then ! In a moment she
understood that this was an announcement
of his presence, of his proximity ; that the
mystery of the visitor at Hornclean, who
was not the Frank Lisle of her own sad
story, but bore his name, was about to be
cleared up. By whom ? Whose hand was
it by which her false lover had sent her
that token of her old servitude? The
pretty, delicate ornament lay in her lap,

and her eyes gazed at it as though it was
some loathsome object ; her head reeled,
that terrible vertigo which had once or
twice before come to her with a shock,
seized hold upon her ; she stretched her
hands down at either side of her, and tried
to clutch the rugged bark of the log on
which she was sitting, while the scene grew
dim and distant, and a black pall hung
itself before her eyes. The agony of surprise
and terror might have lasted an age,
or an instant, she knew not ; with a deep y
gasping sigh-she tried to rise to her feet
and fly from the spot, but her knees refused
to support her, and she sank down again on
the log. Only a few moments of this seemingly
endless suffering passed, when Helen,
looking up in deadly fear, saw, as if through
a mist, a man standing before her. The
man was Frank Lisle.

She uttered a dreadful, low, gasping cry T ,
and hid her face in her hands.

"Don't be frightened," he said, and he,

too, was pale, and his voice was strange ;
and pray let me speak to you. I must.
It is absolutely necessary for us both that I
should. There is nothing to fear. For
Heaven's sake do not shake like that."

She put a strong constraint upon herself,
and forced her lips to form words.

What do you want with me ? Why do
you come here ?"

I want nothing but your forgiveness.
I come here because I am forced to do so;
because the truth must be told between you
and me ; because you must be made aware
of who I am."

Who are you ?"

"I am Frederick Lorton Horndean."

She stared at him in blank terror and
amazement ; she uttered a faint sound, but
no articulate words ; once more the blackness
came before her eyes, and she would
have fallen to the ground but for his sustaining
arm. He held her in no gentle
clasp ; there was not the slightest suggestion

vol. in. P

of a caress in his touch ; it was merely the
aid of strength to weakness ; and she rallied
instantly, and shrank away from him with
a movement which he did not attempt to
contest.

"You are better now," he said, "and
you will listen to me. It shall be for the
last time. And you will believe what I say,
I am sure, villain as you must hold me to
be, and as I suppose I am. It was only
last night that I learned, by a letter from
Mrs. Stephenson, that you were living with
Mrs. Masters at Chesney Manor. To-day I
came down to the church here, thinking
that I might find some means of sending the
token that would reveal my presence to you,
and then write and entreat you to see me
without anyone's knowledge ; but the priest
was there, and he saw me. 1 had to talk to
him, and to give up that plan. There was
nothing for it but to follow you, and risk it."

She was listening to him, but it was as if
in a dream. The crowd of recollections

was too great, its whirl was too bewildering.
Her brain seemed to be burst and shattered
by them ; she could only realise that this
man was Frank, and that she was suffering
horrible pain.

I am here to tell you the truth, and
first, that I did not desert you as you believed."


Ah, yes;Jier mind was getting a little
clearer. This was the man by whose false
name she had been called ; for whose coming
she had vainly watched and waited through
all those dreadful weeks ; who had utterly
wrecked her life. She made no attempt to
speak, and she closed her eyes and covered
them with her hands. Nevertheless, he
knew that she was listening to him.

"No, as Heaven is my witness, I did not.
When I left you, I meant to return as I
had promised and arranged ; but I was
seized with sudden illness the next day,
and for several weeks I was either unconscious
or helpless, and nobody knew where

I was. When I returned to Paris, you
were gone to England, I was told ; at all
events, you had placed yourself under the
protection of your friends, and withdrawn
yourself from mine. I don't excuse myself,
I only explain. Circumstances hindered
me from trying to get you back. It wa
better for us both."

"Did you mean to marry me when you
returned to Paris ?"

He hesitated, and with his hesitation her
emotion vanished. She was quite calm as
she waited for his reply.

I  I will go back to the beginning, and
tell you the truth. The day I met you at
the Louvre, when I put you into a carriage,
} 7 ou gave as your address my sister's house.
She and I had quarrelled, and I knew nothing
of her doings just then ; my curiosity
was excited about her, my admiration was

roused by you " She shrank so plainly

from these words that he hurriedly begged
her pardon and continued : "I contrived to

meet you again, and as I did not want my
sister to find out anything about me, and
did want to do her an ill turn, I called myself
by my friend Lisle's name, and tried to
win your confidence in a false character."

And succeeded. It was not very brave.
I was only a girl, a miserable dependent in
your sister's House."

u Don't think that I don't know how
cowardly it was; but the wretched little
excuse there was to offer I could not make
now without offending you. I was living
very recklessly at that time, gambling, and
drinking, and doing all the things for doing
which my guardian, Mr. Horndean, had so
severely condemned me, and which were
very likely to cost me the inheritance that
he had promised me. There was just one
thing which would have made my loss of it
quite certain  a marriage unapproved by
Mr. Horndean. That was the risk I could
not incur, the penalty I could not face ; in
that you have the explanation of my conduct

to you, execrable, I admit. It was
not a deliberate plot ; that is all I have to
say for myself. When I left you at Neuilly
to go to England, I was in hopes that the-old
man was dying, and that all would be
safe. Had I reached England then, and
had he died, I would have returned and
made you my wife."

Mr. Horndean believed what he said.
Needless to add that Helen believed it.
But, while the assertion gave him a sensation
of comfortable self approval, it merely
awoke in her the heartfelt sentiment :
Thank God for all that has happened,
because it was not that."

I need not repeat what did occur.
Before Mr. Horndean died, you were gone,
and then, I confess, I saw the extreme folly
of what I had done, and I was glad, very
glad, you had found honourable protection.
We had both escaped a very great evil."

It had never, perhaps, befallen Frederick
Lorton in his life before to have to say anything

so difficult of utterance as those latter
sentences ; the meanness, the cruelty, and
the falsehood they revealed were as evident
to himself as to the girl who listened to
him. But that girl was no longer the weak
and childish creature whom he had deceived
so easily, Nobler associations and the
forcing school of suffering had instructed
her. She raised her head with supreme
dignity, and said, in a tone of cool command
:

"Pass on from that part of your explanation,
if you please."

He gave her a startled look, but he
obeyed her.

Your letter convinced me that the best
safety for both of us was in leaving things
as they were. I was summoned to England.
Mr. Horndean was dead ; by the
terms of his will I should have been disinherited
if I had been a married man at
the time of his death. And now, I have
indeed to crave your pardon ; for I know

I ought to have sought you out when I
became ray own master, and made you my
wife, but ''

She calmly interrupted him.

You had ceased to wish to do so, Mr.
Horndean. I have at least reason to be
grateful to you that you did not inflict that
worst of injuries upon me. You need tell
me no more ; I know that you are about to
marry Miss Chevenix, whom I have seen,
and all the consequences to me of that
marriage are clearly before my mind."

"To you! Surely it is impossible that

you " He hesitated; the strife of his

contending passions was great.

You would say that I have no part in
the matter  that it is impossible I should
love you still. You are right, that is quite
impossible ; that, with all its suffering, has
long been over. And I forgive you, quite
fully and freely ; you will be a very happy
man if my wishes can avail. But there are
consequences to me. I cannot remain here.

I can neither reveal your secret nor carry
on false pretences to my friends. Miss
Chevenix and Mrs. Townley Gore must
soon learn that I am here ; and besides 
don't mistake me  this must be the last
meeting between you and me."

He was ashamed of himself  he was
sorry for what he had done  he would
have given a good deal of money never to
have seen the face of Helen Rhodes, but a
great, irrepressible joy was awakened in
him by her words. She had said in a few
words all that he had been laboriously
planning how to say in many. The importance
to him of secrecy, which he was at a
loss how to insinuate without insult to her,
had been perceived by her unassisted intelligence.
He was saved, free, relieved from
all dread of his beautiful Beatrix's jealousy,
anger, or suspicion ; the haunting ghosts of
the last night were laid.

And Helen? What of her? Only the
old question, What was to become of her?

He said something of her future being his
care, but she put it aside with indifference
that was hardly even disdainful, and simply
reiterating her assurance that he was forgiven,
and that she would have left Chesney
Manor before he brought his bride to Horn-dean,
she begged him to leave her.

I must have a little time to recover
myself," she said, " and I shall be missed
at the house. Good-bye, Mr. Horn-dean."


Even to his perception, so dimmed by
vice, so dulled by selfishness, the nobility
of the girl was striking. He felt something
as near to reverence as he was capable of
feeling as he bowed low and turned away
into the plantation. There was one point
of resemblance in the respective states of
mind of Helen and himself; it was the impossibility
that both felt of realising their
former relation to each other. Between
Frederick Lorton and the pure, gentle,

lovely image of the girl whom he had loved
and left so lightly, there interposed itself
the splendid picture of Beatrix, the grand
passion of his hitherto wasted life. Did
anythingjome between her and the image
of her false, lost lover, as he was when
Helen had loved and believed in him, to
blur and confuse it in her mind's eye as she
sat for a while where he had left her, trying
to think, but fast losing the coherence
and resolution which had come to her aid
while he was there, and with a terrible
consciousness of physical illness stealing
over her ?

If there was any such thing, Helen did
not know it.

When she reached the house she was
surprised to find Mrs. Masters in the hall,
and on the look-out for her.

A glance at her showed Helen that something
unusual had happened.

A charming surprise for you, " said

THE QUESTION OF CAIN.

Mrs. Masters, taking her arm and giving
it a warning squeeze. "Jane Merrick is
here!"

CHAPTER X.

THAT NIGHT.

rjlHE short winter's day had almost closed
-*- in before Mr. Horndean returned
home, after his interview with Helen. He
came out of the west gate of Chesney
Manor, and found Mr. Moore at the entrance
to the church. Two little girls were
with him, and they regarded the stranger
with solemn curiosity. He saluted Mr.
Moore, and went on, taking the path
through the adjoining wood to the nearest
point at which Chesney Manor marched
with his own grounds, and regained the
house by the back way that led past the
stables. The man who had driven the dogcart

to the railway-station in the morning
was lounging at the yard gate, and Mr.
Horndean asked him at what hour he was
to meet Mr. Lisle. He was not to go to
the station, he said ; Mr. Lisle preferred
walking up, as it was moonlight, and there
was nothing to carry.

Mr. Horndean had a good deal of time
for solitary reflection before he could look
for the return of his friend ; more time,
indeed, than he cared for ; he regarded
the hours with dejected apprehension.
Mr. Horndean had been accustomed to put
everything that was unpleasant from him
as far and for as long as he could possibly
manage to do so, and he hated to have to
think, all by himself, of a difficulty that
had somehow or other been got over.
That incurable levity which comes of want
of conscience was as conspicuous in him as
the " inexorable ennui " that comes to all
sorts and conditions of men, who make
themselves the chief object of existence,

and he was now impatient to be rid of the
impression produced by the occurrence of
that day."

One of the most powerful descriptions of
a state of mind ever written is that of Jonas
Chuzzlewit after the murder of Pigg; there
is not a turn or a touch of it that does not
convince the reader of its truth ; but there
is one feature of that description subtle
beyond all the rest. It is the murderer's
measure of time; it is his thinking of the
murder as an old crime, before the sun has
risen whose setting light shone upon his
victim as a living man. In its degree a
similar experience came to Frederick Horn-dean.
So many thoughts, remembrances,
fears, and difficulties had crowded into his
mind since the revelation made to him by
Mrs. Stephenson's letter, that he felt as
though a long time had passed. The danger
was averted, the difficulty was conquered
; the unpleasantness had been faced, and
it was done with ; the affair was an old one ;

he was awfully sorry about it, but it had
ended well, and it would be a bore to have
to think about it until all hours of night.

He wished he had not arranged with
Frank Lisle that he should return, but had
said he would join Frank in town ; an hour
would see him through all his remaining
business, and then he might start. He had
half a mind to do this ; but was restrained
by the reflection that it would not do tolet
his friend come down to an empty house,,
and that he could not telegraph to him,
because he did not know were he might be.

The small sitting-room looked pleasant
and welcoming when the master of the
house re-entered it. The great pile of
buildings was gloomy; no light showed
outside, except that from the housekeeper's
rooms, on the ground floor, on the side
opposite to the long gallery; the small
sitting-room looked into the paved quadrangle,
and its windows were closely shuttered
and curtained. All was profoundly

still, and when, after he had eaten his
solitary dinner, he lit a cigar, and drew
his chair close to the fire, Mr. Horndean
knew that he had to face the thing he hated
most, reflection.

It has probably occurred to every man
to wonder, on some one occasion of his life,
how he could have been such a fool on
some other, and many have put that question
to themselves, when "fool" was not
the word they ought to have used, but one
much stronger. This occurred to Helen's
false lover now ; he had no words in which
to condemn his own "folly" with sufficient
severity; but, so much may be said for him,
he reflected no blame on Helen in his
thoughts. He acknowledged her innocence,
her gentleness, even her beauty, though its
charm for him had been so brief  the
"folly " had been all his own. It had been
hard on her, poor girl, although, after all,
everything had now arranged itself for the
best, and, as she was so reasonable about it

VOL. III. Q

all, things would come right. As for her
feelings  he would rather not think of
them.

Finding, however, that he could not
escape from the subject, that it pursued him,
in the positive form which it had assumed
to-day, as closely as it had pursued him in
the vague form of last night, he took refuge
in the persuasion that she had not really
suffered much, beyond anxiety and suspense.
From these he could not have saved her,
and for these he was not to blame. She
had not really loved him, did not, indeed,
know what love meant, had not the faintest
notion of any kind of passion, and she would
be capable in the future of as much happiness
as could come in this world to natures
like hers, with a flavour of the angelic in
them. That Helen should think the brief
and blameless love-affair between herself
and him  especially as not a soul who
would be capable of misinterpreting it would
ever know that it had existed  a barrier

between her and any other man who might
wish to make her his wife, was literally impossible
for Mr. Horndean to imagine. He
ceased to dwell on Helen's share in the
matter, and became entirely engrossed with
his own. As he thought of this, his slumbering
wrath against his sister awoke, and
rose high. After all, it was her doing ; it
was her treatment of him, her selfishness,
her heartlessness, her cool ignoring of his
troubles in the plenitude and security of
her own prosperous estate, that had put the
first temptation in his way ; and it was her
cruel, unwomanly, odious treatment of Helen
Rhodes that had laid the girl open to the
temptation of escape by any means. Yes,
Mrs. Townley Gore was entirely to blame.
And then, the subsequent conduct of his
sister and that easy-going egotist, Townley
Gore : never looking after the girl  never
even mentioning her name, so that, without
his previous and private knowledge, he
would not have known that any such 



son had ever been an inmate of their house ;
could anything be worse than this ? His
sister would have been punished indeed, if
he had gone straight back to Paris, after
Mr. Horndean's death set him free to marry
whom he pleased, and brought to Horndean
as his bride the poor girl whom she had
oppressed. If he had never seen Beatrix,
he might have done this, even though his
passing caprice for Helen had so cooled and
dwindled that he had been well disposed to
listen to the promptings of prudence, when
he found the bird flown from Neuilly ; but
he had fallen in love with his sister's friend,
and the passion inspired by Beatrix had
swept away every other thought and feeling
with a rush like that of a mountain torrent.
What would have happened if he had made
that marriage, with its mixed motives of
liking and resentment?

Helen would have been easily persuaded
to excuse the deception he had practised
upon her, but would she ever have been

happy as the instrument of his vengeance
upon his sister? Probably not  that touch
of the angelic in her nature, which Mr.
Horndean recognised uneasily, would interfere
in such a case. Nothing could be
plainer than that things had happened for
the best for Helen. Cruel, unwomanly,
odious, such were the epithets that Mr.
Horndean applied in his thoughts to the
conduct of Mrs. Townley Gore towards her
husband's protegee. Had she retaliated
upon him with cruel, unmanly, and odious,
what could he have said ? He did not put
that query directly to himself, and, when his
conscience made any sign of approaching it,
he hustled it aside as importunate. Thus
did the brother and the sister, in whose
hands the fate of Helen Rhodes had been
placed, repeat in action that defiant question
of Cain, which has found unending reiteration
throughout all the ages in all the
generations of men : " Am I my brother's
keeper?"

And then, there was Frank Lisle ! Mr.
Horndean disliked exceedingly the explanation
that would so soon have to be made to
him. In the excitement and perplexity of
that morning, when the object of chief importance
was to secure the day to himself,
with no one to observe his proceedings, and
so to obtain a secret interview with Helen,
it had been easy enough to promise to tell
Frank everything. But now, when all this
was done, and things had turned out so
much better than he could have expected,
when Helen had been so reasonable, the
explanation seemed more difficult and less
necessary. Frank was the best fellow in
the world, and the easiest going, but still it
could not be agreeable to him to learn that
his friend had borrowed his name without
leave, for a purpose which he would find it
difficult to justify, even to the best and
easiest-going of fellows. If he had only
had a little more self-control, if he had not
been so completely upset by that confounded

woman's gushing letter about the romantic
coincidence which was to bring her dear
heart-friend " in contact with the orphan
girl of whom she had made " quite a
heroine," he might have got rid of the unsuspecting
Frank for a few hours on some
easy pretext, and had no explanation to
make at all. It could not be helped
now, however, and Mr. Horndean had
only to wish that bad quarter of an hour
well over, and in the meantime to think of
Beatrix.

How long the evening was ! Why could
he not have done with all the miserable
past, and be rid of its phantoms ? All was
safe now, and there might surely be an end
of it. He had Helen's assurance and
promise, and something  perhaps that
objectionable touch of the angelic about her
made him rely upon them absolutely. It
was not distrust and it was not fear that
troubled him. Nothing troubled him ; he
would not be troubled.

There was only a boy in the house,
the men-servants being in London, and
Mr. Horndean dismissed him early, saying
that he would let Mr. Lisle in at the side
door and afterwards lock it. He pleased
himself with picturing how bright and
animated the old house would be, when he
should see it next, all en fete for the reception
of his beautiful bride. His fancy drew
a score of pictures of her, in the fine old
rooms, and he told himself anew that not
one of the dead and gone Charlecote women
though several of them had been very
fair  could compare with her who was so
soon to be lady and mistress in the place
that knew them no more. The portrait
which was to be Frank Lisle's chef-d'oeuvre
had not yet been begun. It should represent
Beatrix in her Hungarian costume,
adorned with the quaint, antique jewels
which were to be the heirlooms of the new
family.

Over the oak mantelpiece of the small

sitting-room, hung one of the Charlecote
pictures, and Mr. Horndean's gaze rested
curiously upon it. The subject was a young
woman, in the " blown-together " dress of Sir
Joshua's predilection, gauzy, elegant, innocent
of needlework, haply impossible, but
pleasant to believe in ; a woman with a
sweet, serious face, and lightly powdered
hair, just touched here and there with
jewels. By her side knelt a lovely child, its
dimpled limbs resting on a satin cushion, its
limpid eyes raised to the mother's face bending
over it, and its little hands folded within
hers. The words of the prayer seemed to
breathe from the lips of the mother and
the child, and the serene, serious eyes of the
lady to look beyond the baby-head, at the
stranger within the gates of her ancestors
and her descendants.

Mr. Horndean knew that picture ; it was
one of the best in the house, but somehow
it attracted him strangely to-night. It
associated itself with the image of Mr.

Moore, as he had seen him kneeling in the
little church, in his unaffected matter-of-course
way. Man, woman, and child ; the
long since dead, the living and present ;
here was something which bound them all
together, and could, if only it were real
and true, take bitterness out of the brevity
of life, and deprive its vicissitudes of dread.
But of what this was, he knew nothing.
What was that child  she died, a grandmother,
before Mr. Horndean was born 
saying so carefully and prettily after her
mother ? He could guess that at least :
Our Father Who art in Heaven"  how
long it was since he had uttered those
words ! He went on to the end of the
Lord's Prayer, and the sweet, serene, serious
eyes of the lady in the picture seemed to
dwell upon him, as in a far distant time
those of his own mother had doubtless dwelt.
Perhaps, after all, there was something in
what people call religion ; and it might be
worth finding out. He wished Beatrix believed

in " something"  he actually put it
thus to himself in his thoughts. He had
occasionally winced at her frank disdain of
all belief; there was certainly a hardening
influence in this utter incredulity, her disbelief
in God made her distrustful of man,
and then it was " bad form " in a woman.
The radiant image in his mind's eye was fora
moment blurred and imperfect as this reflection
occurred to him ; he did not like to
pursue it in any farther, he shrank from the
conclusion to which it would lead him, that
the love of a woman who had no God, and
who looked for no future,] must be of the
earth, earthy. There would be time enough
to think about these things. They might
both change one day, she, her mind of hard
and positive negation, he, his mind of not
knowing and not caring; but, for the
present, there stretched out before them
the life proven, the life that was to be
seen, and felt, and lived, in a delightful

7 7 7 C

vista of love, youth, health, and wealth.

The foe that they must face at the end was
so far off that they need not think about
him, although he was the sure, the inevitable
conqueror. Before they had to confront
him there was a paradise to be enjoyed, and
people said nobody really minded death
when it came.

And after death the judgment." The
words flashed into his memory, and for one
moment of blinding light he saw the awful
possibility that what they stated might be
true, and the hideous folly of ignoring that
possibility. What was the ghost of last
night to the ghost that rose before him
now, for literally the first time since he had
laid aside childish things ? He rose with a
shiver, replenished the fire, muttered something
about Frank Lisle's being almost due,
looked at his watch  it marked half-past
eleven  and crossed the room to a table on
which a tray of refreshments had been left
ready for the traveller. Having drank
some brandy and soda-water he resumed his

cigar and his seat, meaning to listen for
Frank Lisle's knock, but after a few minutes
he fell asleep.

Mr. Horndean's was a light slumber ; he
was aroused from it by a noise ; but not
that for which he had been listening. This
sound proceeded from the long gallery or
drawing-room : it was not loud, but quite
distinct and very peculiar. He looked
around him for the cat, with the idea that
she had been shut into the long gallery by
accident, and was scratching at the more distant
door ; but she was asleep in her basket.
Then he lighted a candle, and softly opened
the door in the tapestry. A broad streak
of moonlight was flung upon the floor of
the long gallery from a wide, open window
at one end, and on a line with the door in
the tapestry stood a man, his back turned
to Mr. Horndean, stooping over the case
from which the jewels had been removed
on the previous day. A small lantern placed
on a table lighted the thief to his work ;

and a green baize bag lay at his feet ready
to receive the spoil. The man, who was tall
and strongly built, was dressed in a brown
velveteen coat and trousers, and a red
waistcoat; he wore a wide-leaved hat of grey
felt. He had removed the cover of the case,
the padlock with a key in it lay on the
ground, and he had unlocked and lifted the
lid, and was looking eagerly into the receptacle.
Eagerly but vainly ; the treasure was
not there, and in his fancied security the
thief gave vent by a savage oath to the fury
with which this discovery filled him. The
next instant a stream of light came through
the doorway behind him, he let the lid fall,
and, turning sharply, confronted Mr. Horn-dean.


"Ramsden!"

The man rushed at him, knocked the
candle out of his hand, pulled-to the door
in the tapestry with inconceivable quickness,
dashed down his lantern, and made a rush
for the open window. He might have

effected his escape only for the moonlight,
for the suddenness of his movements confused
Mr. Horndean for a moment. The
next he was plainly revealed, and, with a
shout for help, Mr. Horndean seized him,
just as his foot cleared the window-sill.

There was a quick, fierce struggle, the
thief and his assailant were in almost equal
danger; the ledge of white stone that jutted
out under the windows, and formed a sort
of balcony without a balustrade, only deeply
grooved at the edge as a rain channel,
afforded very narrow footing. Mr. Horn-dean
had stepped over the window-sill with
one foot only, the other foothold gave him
the advantage. He had all but draped
the thief back into the room, when, with
a growl like a wild beast, the man freed his
right arm, drew a short, iron crowbar from
his breast, and struck him a terrific blow
with it upon the temple. Frederick Horn-dean's
griping hands loosed their hold, his
arms swung for an instant, and then he

dropped, a limp and bleeding heap, upon
the floor, across the bar of silver moonlight.

In a second the thief had set his foot
upon the rope-ladder, hooked into the
groove in the ledge, by which he had gained
the window, and was rapidly descending,
when two men emerged from the shadow
of the house. One of these was Frank
Lisle, the other was a railway porter, who
carried under his arm a large parcel of toys
intended for Mr. Lisle's little friends at
Chesney Manor. They caught sight of the
ladder and the descending figure at the
same instant, and made a simultaneous
rush ; as the man touched the ground they
seized him.

"The organ-grinder, by Jove!" ejaculated
Frank Lisle. u What have you been doing
here, you scoundrel ?"

The man answered only by a violent,
unavailing struggle, and at the same instant
the crowbar dropped out of his clothes.
The railway porter picked it up without

loosing his grasp of their captive, and said
to Mr. Lisle,

"There's been mischief, sir; there's wet
on this, and  my God, there's hair ! Hold
him, sir, hold him, while I tie him, and then
you can go and see what this means. Don't
waste strength in shouting, sir."

The thief strove with them like a madman,
kicking and biting, but silent, for he
knew where the boy was, and that he might
hear, but his fight was all in vain. They
dragged him to the spot on which the porter
had thrown down his burden, they tied his
hands and feet with the thick cord off the
parcel of toys, and then Frank Lisle, his
clothes torn, his face ghastly, and his heart
sinking with a nameless fear, left him in
the other's hands, and ran off towards the
house door. But the porter called out to
him,

The ladder's there, sir ; it will save time,
if your head is steady."

He ran back, and began to climb up to

vol. in. u

the window. Amid the horror and confusion
of his thoughts, there was a distinct
impression, never to be lost, of the scene
below : the brilliant moonlight, the scattered
toys, the thief, bound and helpless, struggling
no more, the alert, wiry man by his
side, with a close clutch upon his coat collar,
the still sleep of the earth, and the pure
coldness of the air of the winter night.
He even observed a dark object close to
the wall at the foot of the rope-ladder;
this, he afterwards learned, was the mock
organ which had completed the make-up
for the character assumed by his unconscious
model.

He reached the stone ledge in safety, saw
a dim object on the floor beyond the window,
stepped over the sill into the room,
and knelt down beside the dreadful motionless
heap. The moonlight still lay clear and
white along the gallery floor, and when
Frank Lisle lifted the head upon his knee,

and tenderly felt for the limp hand, it
showed him that Frederick Horndean was
stone dead.

r2

CHAPTER XT.

A FATHER S LEGACY.

Titre HORNDEAN's letter was punch
tully delivered by Frank Lisle to
Beatrix, in time to prevent her from suffering
from the hope deferred of his arrival,
and he had told her to expect Frederick on
the next day but one. So great was the
pleasure, the enchantment which his letter
caused her, that she rejoiced at her lover's
absence, just for once, because it had procured
her such intense enjoyment.

I will keep this all my life," she said 
for once unlike a woman who knew the
world  and she had hidden it in her bosom

as the merest romantic schoolgirl could
have done. The passion of it, the fervour
of it, the assurance which it conveyed of her
own supreme power over this man, thrilled
and fascinated the beautiful woman, as the
spoken words of her lover's courtship had
never yet done. There seemed to be in
that letter a new departure for their love,
and she revelled in the thought of the spell
she had laid upon him.

There was this in common between her
and Frederick that day, that as he had
never been so entirely held and absorbed
by his love for her, so she had never before
so thoroughly understood it. If he could
have stood beside her, as she murmured
the words upon the paper to herself, and a
flush of pride and pleasure suffused her face,
he might have spoken out all the fulness of
his heart ; there would have been no more
of that strange, hard mockery in her manner
which embarrassed him even when he was
most happy.

I shall know how to keep him to this,"
she said that night, as she smoothed out the
letter, warm from its contact with her fair
flesh, and laid it under the tray of her
dressing-box. " Our marriage shall be no
common-place companionship. We shall
be rich and happy  while it lasts."

She studied her face very attentively
in the glass for a few minutes, and then,
having noticed the moonlight upon the
staircase, she drew back a window-curtain
and looked out. The sky was clear, the
moon was shining bright and steady, without
an intervening cloud, turning the ugly,
ponderous houses opposite to silver, and
sending a streak of its radiance into the
street.

How beautiful the night must be at
Horndean, thought Beatrix, who could see,
in her mind's eye, the park, with its leafless
trees, and the long line of the fine old
house bathed in that silver radiance. Perhaps
Frederick was looking out on the

beautiful night just then, and thinking of
her. What a pity it was that people who
were rich and happy could not live ever so
much longer !

She shivered slightly, and closed the
curtain. After all, moonlight was chilly
and melancholy  a stupid thing. There
was nothing like sleep.

The following day, which was so bright
at Horndean, was almost equally fine in
London ; a " pet day," indeed, and so
pleasant, everyone said, within so short a
tiuie of Christmas.

The luxurious and well-ordered house in
Kaiser Crescent was bright and cheerful,
and all the dwellers in it were in good
spirits. Things had been going very well
of late with Mr. Townley Gore ; he had not
had the gout, he had not had worries of
any kind, and he had observed with pleasure
that the relations between his wife and
her future sister-in-law were of a satisfactory
kind.

Beatrix would hold her own with Caroline,
he thought, and things would be pleasant
between the two households. Perhaps
it was because Mr. Townley Gore was conscious
that he himself did not always hold
his own with his wife, who, although she
never quarrelled with him, invariably had
her own way, that he was so well pleased
to find Beatrix a match (and more) for
Caroline.

And then, there was something very
agreeable in Frederick's new position. To
have an impecunious and " troublesome "
brother-in-law, with an objectionable habit
of turning up in a scrape, converted into a
gentleman of estate with a stake in all the
proprieties, and seemingly none but virtuous
inclinations, is a source of satisfaction
which all the world can appreciate ; and
Mr. Townley Gore liked very much indeed
the enjoyment Horndean had to offer, with
no trouble, and nothing to pay. He admired
Beatrix, too, and felt sure that they

should always get on very well together.

Beatrix rather liked Mr. Townley Gore ;
he was selfish and heartless, no doubt,
though less so than his wife ; but selfishness
and heartlessness were to her mere words,
like those that expressed their opposites.
Those characteristics did not affect his manners,
or lessen the amusement she derived
from his fluent and " knowing" talk  that
of a thorough man of the world  and, as
she should never allow them to interfere
with her comfort or her plans in anyway,
they could not possibly matter to
her.

Mrs. Townley Gore was in the serene
spirits ; her ticklish position with Frederick
was becoming easier and more assured everyday.
She had asked him a question about
the intended settlements, he had answered
her briefly that there were to be none. She
had replied that Beatrix was quite charmingly
romantic, while secretly wondering
that she should be such a fool, and the

incident had ended without the slightest
strain of the fraternal relations.

There were probably not to be found in
all London on that bright morning three
more contented persons than Mr. and Mrs.
Townley Gore and Beatrix, as they discussed,
after breakfast, their respective plans for
the day.

How handsome and how happy Beatrix
looked, in her dainty morning dress, as she
leaned back in her chair, fingering with a
caressing touch the blossoms of a splendid
bouquet, (Frederick, in foreign fashion, sent
her one as a love-message every morning),
and talking gaily.

The ladies' day was well filled. The
morning was to be devoted to shopping;
in the afternoon they were to have an inspection
of the costumes for the fancy ball,
and after an early dinner they were going,
with friends, to the play. Mr. Townley
Gore was to dine with some men at a
club, on his return from a short run into

Surrey to look at a pair of horses with a
friend. So that he was as well pleased as
were his wife and Miss Chevenix.

When Beatrix was ready to go out, and
the carriage was at the door, she lingered in
her room for a few minutes to glance once
more over Frederick's letter, and she pulled
some leaves from a rare flower in the bouquet
of that morning, and placed them with
it in her dressing-box. No doubt he would
have written to her again last night ; and
she should have his letter before she went
to the play. That would be delightful ; she
would enjoy "The Bells" all the more.

The programme of the morning was carried
out exactly, and nothing occurred to
ruffle the contentment of the two ladies.
They returned to Kaiser Crescent to
luncheon, and it was then that the first
trifling contrariety of the day presented
itself. Beatrix had sent her maid to Mrs.
Mabberley's house for something that she
wanted, and she was now told that the

messenger had returned, having failed to
gain admittance. Thinking, as the young
woman was a stranger, she had made some
mistake, Beatrix questioned her. There
was no mistake. The maid had gone in a
cab to the right number in Hill Street;
there she had knocked and rung several
times, but without effect. At last a policeman
appeared, and he, too, knocked and
rang at the door, equally in vain. After
some time a woman came up the area steps
of the adjoining house and told the policeman
that " it was no good for him to go on
knocking, for there was no one there." On
being questioned further, she said the servants
had all left the house on the previous
evening, and " the lady " early in the morning.
The policeman remarked that it was
a "queer start" to leave the house quite
empty, to which the woman replied that
very likely a charwoman had been left in
charge, and that she had gone out, taking
the back-door key with her, "as," she

added, "a many of 'eui will, and leave the
'ouse to look after itself for hours and
hours ; as you policemen knows right well."
The policeman acknowledged that similar
breaches of faith had come within his ken,
and, opining that it was quite impossible to
say when the charwoman might return, he
advised the puzzled abigail to go home and
come again, later, on chance. Then, without
taking any notice of the remark of the
woman upon the area steps, " which, mind
you, I don't say positive as there is a charwoman,
for I haven't seen none," lie smote
his gloves together, and resumed his stolid
walk.

Mrs. Townley Gore and Beatrix heard
this account of the maid's unsuccessful mission
with much surprise. They were totally
at a loss to imagine what could have induced
Mrs. Mabberley to leave home in
this sudden way, and especially to have
sent away her servants in the first instance.

The whole thing was inconsistent with all

that had passed during her interview with
Beatrix. Was she the sort of person, Mrs.
Townley Gore asked, to get into a rage
with her whole household on discovering
some delinquency, and turn them all out of
the house ? Beatrix could not tell. She
could only say that her belief was, whatsoever
Mrs. Mabberley chose to do she would
do.

** But then," she added, " that would not
account for her going away herself, and
going without letting me know. I arranged
with her that I w 7 as to return to Hill Street
on Saturday, and she asked me to invite
Frederick to dine with us. It is a mystery.
But no doubt she will write to explain, It
will be very awkward for me if she remains
away beyond Saturday."

"Why should it be awkward for you,
dear Beatrix?" said Mrs. Townley Gore.
You don't want to be told, I hope, that
this house is much more your home than
Mrs. Mabberley 's."

The afternoon passed, as the morning had
done, according to the plan arranged. The
modiste arrived with the dresses for the
fancy ball, the Marguerite de Valois costume
for Mrs. Townley Gore  with the famous
pockets for the dried hearts of the lovers of
that princess faithfully reproduced  and
the Hungarian costume for Miss Chevenix.
Both were eminently satisfactory  rich,
correct, and becoming.

The modiste was anxious about the ornaments
to be worn with the Hungarian dress ;
but Beatrix could reassure her. They would
be quite right ; and, in fact, Frank Lisle had
told her, when he called yesterday, that he
had succeeded in procuring all that would
be necessary.

It was not until she was dressing for the
early dinner that was to precede the play,
that Beatrix had leisure again to think of
the oddity of Mrs. Mabberley's proceedings.
Could she be mad ? To form such an idea
of the most quiet, methodical, repressed, insignificant

of women, one whose voice was
never raised, whose demeanour was never
fluttered by an emotion, seemed the height
of absurdity. And yet Beatrix did entertain
it. No living creature except herself
and Mrs. Mabberley knew what the compact
between them had been, and for the
making of that compact Beatrix had never
been able to discern the motive. What if
it had been mere madness ? What if Mrs.
Mabberley were only one of the many unsuspected
maniacs, gifted with plausibility,
who are out and about in the world ? It
gave her a shudder to think that such a thing
was possible, that she might have been
living for so long in daily contact with a
madwoman, and then that was succeeded by
a thrill of joy, deeper perhaps than she had
ever felt before, at the thought of the release
that was imminent, and the brilliant
future that was opening before her.

Beautifully dressed, in high spirits, though
a little put out because no letter from

Frederick caine by the afternoon's post,
Beatrix, carrying her lover's morning gift of
flowers, took her place in the carriage beside
Mrs. Townley Gore, and was taken to
the Lyceum Theatre. Their friends had
just arrived ; their box was one of the best
in the house ; Mr. Irving threw into his
performance of the part of Mathias all the
weird power that has made the conscience-slain
murderer one of the most memorable
impersonations ever seen on any stage ; the
whole party looked and listened with fascinated
attention.

Neither Mrs. Townley Gore nor Beatrix
was at all likely to be unconscious of notice
; on ordinary occasions each of them
would have been well aware that the
glasses of observers opposite were turned
upon her, and that she was the subject of
comment ; but it did happen this evening
that neither observed these things. For once
they were both, and equally, taken up with
the play and the acting. It was fortunate

VOL. III. s

for Mrs. Townley Gore's good name in
the world of fashion, that attention and
earnestness " at the Lyceum are the correct
thing, for there was some whispered comment
about her and her companion in the
boxes opposite, and in the orchestra stalls.
Men left their places and talked together in
doorways, and a few kindly women's faces
bore an expression of concern and compassion.


This was, however, quite late, after the
news in the latest editions of the evening
papers would have had time to reach the
theatres, and it did not attract the attention
of either Mrs. Townley Gore or Beatrix.
Afterwards, Mrs. Townley Gore remembered
that they had got their carriage up with
surprising celerity, and that there had been
unusual attention paid to them by the attendants
; but at the time this passed unnoticed,
as did the facts that, although it washer
own footman who stood at the door of
the carriage, the seat beside the coachman

was occupied by a stranger, and that the
footman followed in a cab. As the carriage
rolled away, some people standing in the
doorway of the theatre looked at each other
with a kind of horror in their faces, and one
of the men said to a lady,

"That is his sister, and Miss Chevenix
is with her. They evidently know nothing
about it."

The carriage stopped, the ladies alighted
and passed into the house, followed, without
their knowledge, by the man who had
taken the footman's place upon the coach-box.
The instant Mrs. Townley Gore
entered the well-warmed, well-lighted,
crimson-carpeted hall, she felt that something
was wrong ; there was calamity in the
atmosphere, and knowledge of it in the
pale face of the servant who advanced and
said that Mr. Townley Gore begged she
would go to him at once in the library. It
was not her husband, then ? She drew hers

2

breath move freely, but cast a startled
glance at Beatrix, who had gone to the
hall table, and was looking over the evening's
letters in the hope of finding one from
Frederick.

Don't take Miss Chevenix with you,
ma'am," whispered the servant, as he removed
Mrs. Townley Gore's cloak; and,
without a word, she crossed the hall and
entered the library.

With indescribable terror she saw her
husband rise and then, unable to advance
to her, re-seat himself, covering his face
with his hands, and also saw that there
were four persons with him : Frank Lisle,
Mr. Osborne, Mr. Warrender, and a stranger.
The latter was a grave, stern-looking
person, of official aspect, and he was standing
very upright by the side of Mr.
Warrender.

For God's sake, what is it ?" said Mrs.
Townley Gore, leaning back against the
door, as Frank Lisle and Mr. Warrender

came towards her. " Tell me at once ;
don't torture me. Is Frederick dead ?"

"He is dead!"

It was Mr. Warrender who spoke ; and
while she breathed hard, with the gasps
that are the first effect of a great shock, he
placed her gently in a chair, and begged
her to calm and strengthen herself to learn
what they had to tell her. All this time
the stranger observed the scene in an
unchanged attitude, and with an unmoved
face.

In a few minutes Mrs. Townley Gore
was able to hear the story they had come
to tell her, and she listened to it as we all
listen to dreadful news, with the double
feeling that it is unreal and impossible, and
yet that, even while the words that convey
it are being spoken, every one of the
possibilities of anguish contained in it
is present to us in all its details. She was
very still, and she listened in silence as
Frank Lisle broke to her the terrible truth

that her brother's sudden death was not
natural, but inflicted by a murderer's hand.
They were all relieved when her tears came,
as Frank, himself in dreadful agitation,
related the capture of the murderer, red-handed;
how they had taken him next morning
to the nearest town, and charged him
before the local magistrate, Mr. Osborne,
with the crime. The wretch, they added,
was in prison, and had made a very important,
statement.

It was at this moment that Mrs. Townley
Gore bethought herself of Beatrix.

"Ah, that unhappy girl!" she cried.
She does not know it yet, and who is to
tell her ? You must," addressing her husband
; u I could not." Then she started up
excitedly. " If the servants know, it may
reach her unawares. Pray, pray go to
her."

Don't be alarmed," said Mr. Townley
Gore, " the servants have received strict

orders," and here he glanced at the stranger,
who nodded curtly. u Nothing will reach
her ; but, my dearest Caroline, there is
more ill news to come, and we cannot spare
you the hearing of it. Tell her, Lisle, and
make an end of it, for pity's sake."

Then they told her that the thief and
murderer, finding the game was up, had
volunteered a statement which was of terrible
import to Miss Chevenix. This man,
James Ramsden, to whose identity the
police had just gained a clue, and who
was to have left the country and joined
his confederates, the pretended colonel
and Mrs. Ramsden (they were not his
parents) abroad, after the final coup of the
robbery at Horndean, acknowledged that
he had stolen the Duchess of Derwent's
diamonds, and Lady Vane's jewels. He
also declared that his confederate on those
two occasions, and also in the projected
jewel robbery at Horndean, was Miss Chevy

To Mrs. Townley Gore's exclamation
of horror and incredulity, and her eager
question :

61 You surely do not believe this monstrous
lie P" no one answered with the
denial she expected ; and as she looked
from one to the other, with starting eyes
and a face of ghastly pallor, she saw that
they did believe it.

"The story," said Mr. Osborne, "is, unfortunately,
as consistent as it is terrible.
That Miss Chevenix is an adventuress is, I
fear, beyond a doubt ; the questions which
we have put to Mr. Townley Gore have
satisfied us of that j and the circumstances
tell strongly against her. The Duchess of
Derwent exhibited her diamonds to her,
showed her where she kept them, and this
man states that from Miss Chevenix's hands
he received the key of the jewel-ease, and
that she furnished hit with instructions how
to reach the duchess's dressing-room, and
removed the fastenings of the windows.

The robbery was successfully perpetrated
after Miss Chevenix left the house, and the
proceeds were shared with her, at her own
former house in Chesterfield Street, which
she had ostensibly let to the confederates.
The robbery of Lady Vane's jewels was
then arranged ; and Miss Chevenix went on
a visit to Temple Vane. The robbery would
have been effected in the same way as at
Derwent Castle, only that the easier method
of the substitution of a dummy jewel-case
was suggested by Miss Chevenix, when she
found that Lady Vane was about to take
her jewels to London. This man had been
introduced into the house, and made acquainted
with all the localities by Miss
Chevenix ; when the plan was changed, the
substitution was effected by her, and the
jewels were handed over by her to him, at
the railway-station, as he passed her on the
platform, carrying a half-open travelling bag
into which she slipped them."

That at least is impossible," said Mrs.

Townley Gore, " for her own pearls were
stolen on the same occasion."

"So Mr. Lisle remarked to the man,"
said Mr. Osborne, " but he replied that the
loss of the pearls was a blind. Miss Chevy
was at a loss for money to carry on her
deceptive position until she could marry,
and had made up her mind to sell her pearls.
They also were in this man's possession, and
he sold them, and she had the money together
with her share of the spoil of Lady
Vane. I fear there is no way out of this
explanation."

Mrs. Townley Gore answered only by a
groan.

The Horndean robbery," continued Mr.
Osborne, " was to have been the next, and it
was expected to be a very rich haul. The
man came down in the disguise of an organ-grinder
 it was to that disguise that the
police got the clue  and he picked up all
the necessary information. Miss Chevenix
got at the keys of the collection, and at the

window fastenings, just as she had done in
the other instances."

"But it was all to be her own. Why
should she rob herself?"

Because she would have been denounced
to you and your brother as an adventuress,
if she had hesitated; and she
could not have retaliated without avowing
her own guilt. She did struggle and
protest, but in vain ; she had to submit.
This was to be the last of the
series of crimes ; the elder confederates
had cleared off with their gains  very considerable,
no doubt, for Miss Chevenix was
not the only tool they worked with  and
Miss Chevenix was to be free from her
associates."

11 But how, then, did it  did this awful 
did the crime occur, if she  if my brothers
affianced wife "  Mrs. Townley Gore shuddered
from head to foot as she uttered these
words  "knew ?"

Mr. Lisle asked that question also ; but

there was an answer to it. Miss Chevenix
did not know. When this villain found her
manageable on the point of the robbery at
Horndean by threats only, he left her in
ignorance ; he refused to tell her when he
intended to act upon the information which
she had supplied. He knew nothing of Mr.
Horndean's intention to come to Horn-dean,
so he states, and I am inclined to
believe him, and he declares that he had
no idea that Mr. Horndean was in the house
when he entered it with the purpose of
committing the robbery."

"What is to become of this wretched
girl?" was the first utterance of Mrs. Townley
Gore, when Mr. Osborne paused. She
was wonderfully calm and collected. Probably
the very greatness of the shock had
steadied her. u Who knows of this ? Is it
public property yet ?"

The murder only," answered the
stranger, speaking for the first time.
41 That was in the evening papers."

Then Mrs. Townley Gore recalled, as if ina
dream, the ease of their exit from the
Lyceum Theatre, and the looks and whispers
of the groups in the doorway. And
now the stranger struck in, with such effect
that all the others subsided into the background,
and Mrs. Townley Gore had a
horrid consciousness that he was taking
possession of her and her house, and all
that was in it.

I am Inspector Simms, of the Metropolitan
Police," said the stern stranger,
and I hold a warrant, granted by Sir
Gregory Jackson, for the arrest of Miss
Chevenix. Mr. Osborne came up to town
with these gentlemen ; they got the warrant,
and they communicated with Mr.
Townley Gore, and here we are  I and
an officer. He came back with you and
the young lady from the theatre; he's in
the hall now, and it's our painful duty to
apprehend Miss Chevenix, here and now."

In our house ?"

Yes, madam, in your house ; and I'm
sorry to say, when there's such family trouble
about, the sooner the better. There's a
cab waiting."

"You don't mean to say," remonstrated
Mr. Townley Gore, " that you will take her
away to-night? She has to be told that her
affianced husband hasten murdered, and that
she herself is denounced by his murderer as
an adventuress and a thief. You are surely
not bound to remove her from my house ?
Take any precautions you will against her
escape ; I will aid them to the best of my
ability, but let her remain her until tomorrow.
All this may be capable of an
explanation compatible with her innocence."

u It may, sir, and I do not say it is not.
We are used to stranger stories than this.
From what I understand, this Ramsden's
record is a precious bad one ; but duty's
duty. I must act on this warrant"  he
produced the paper  " and it's getting late.
The question is, which of you gentlemen

will come with me and break it to the
party?"

So far as Mr. Townley Gore was concerned,
the inspector's question was answered
on the instant, for, with a deep sigh, Mrs.
Townley Gore fell from her chair in a dead
faint, and he was fully occupied with her.
After a hurried consultation, Mr. Osborne
and Mr. Warrender left the room with the
inspector, and passing through the hall,
where the other policeman, in plain clothes,
was on duty, they went upstairs, preceded
by the frightened butler, who was told to
call Miss Chevenix's maid into the passage
to speak with them.

Beatrix, vexed at finding no letter from
Frederick, and, wondering at the delay of a
summons to the pleasant little supper with
which Mrs. Townley Gore always wound up
an evening at the play, was sitting by the
fire, thinking, now of Frederick, again of
"The Bells," and anon of Mrs. Mabberley's
odd freak. She was tired, hungry, and impatient,

but still she was very happy. Presently
she set her dressing-box upon a velvet
table by the fireside, and took out the precious
letter. She might have tiuie to read
it once again before the gong sounded.
How sweet it smelt, with the scent of the
fragrant leaves about it ! As she lay back
in her chair, her queenly head with its red-gold
crown of plaited hair against the embroidered
cushion, the gleam of jewels on
her fair neck and strong white arms, the
blended light of wood-fire and wax candles
playing on her rich dress of cream-coloured
satin, she presented a perfect picture of
beauty, ease, and luxuriousness. Who could
have believed that the hour had struck, the
fiat gone forth? A mild knock at the
door of the adjoining dressing-room, to
which her maid responded, did not even
attract her attention. That was all for her
lover's letter, as she dwelt upon it, with
long sighs of happiness. She looked up at
the hurried entrance of her maid, and, seeing

three strangers in the doorway, rose,
laid the crumpled paper back in the box,
closed the lid, and asked them who they
were, and what their business was with
her ?

Frederick was dead ! The man whom
she had hated and defied had killed him !
It was all over ! Only a few minutes ago
she was the happiest of women ; what was
she now? The most wretched. Accused
of crimes which she hardly comprehended,
beyond seeing that there was no way of
clearing herself from the imputation of
them, had she even cared to do so ; a beggar,
an outcast, the most lost, ruined, forlorn
wretch upon the surface of the earth
soon to cover him whose hand, two da T s
ago, had written the words that had made
her heart burn within her. What did she
care for any of these things, beyond the first
of them ! Frederick was dead ! She had
loved him, and now there was no such

VOL. III. T

thing. She gave no thought to his sister
or to the world ; the void was too utter for
gradation, the ruin was too complete for
stages. The dignity and composure with
which she met the statement made to herby
Mr. Osborne, (with a due warning on
the part of the inspector that she should
not say anything to her own injury), made
a profound impression upon the beholders.

I have done none of these things," she
said ; " I don't know what you mean."

And then she left them all there in her
thoughts, as matters of no account. Frederick
was dead !

The inspector told her maid that she
might put up a few necessaries for the use
of Miss Chevenix, and he withdrew into
the passage while a morning dress was being
substituted for her evening attire. Through
all this she was perfectly passive. Frederick
was dead ! All was over ! She was at the
foot of the wall, and facing her was the
blank of nothingness.

When the gentlemen were re admitted,
Mr. Osborne said to her,

I trust that you will seek consolation in
God, and that He will establish your innocence."


You are very good, sir," was her dreary
answer, "but there is no God, and my
innocence does not matter to me or to
anyone left alive."

Then the good clergyman shrank away,
and went to the library, and cowered therewith
Mr. and Mrs. Townley Gore, waiting,
with a sickening dread, for the sound of
footsteps in the hall, and the departure of
the wretched woman into the outer darkness.


Mrs. Townley Gore had offered, had even
tried to go to her, but she was quite unable,
and Beatrix had merely said :

See her ? No. Why should I ? I do
not want to see anyone any more."

Only Mr. Warrender, whose gentleness
and compassion could not be surpassed, and

t2

the inspector, who had never met with anything
]ike this before, were with Beatrix,
when her maid said that she was "ready'*
She had not asked whither they were going
to take her ; she was quite lost in thought,
and she had not shed a tear. Her eyes
burned with a feverish brilliancy, her complexion
varied from a crimson flush to a
waxen paleness, her hands were icy cold,
and the nails were blue, but she stood
steadily upon her feet, and no tears came.

When all was done, she calmly asked the
inspector,

u May I take some papers out of my
dressing-case  only a letter or two ?"

He told her she might, and she quietly
resumed her seat, drew the velvet table
close to her, and raised the lid of the
box. The letter lay on the top, but she
shifted the tray, and bending her head so
that it was hidden for a minute, seemed
to search for something under it. The next
moment she leaned back, with Frederick's

letter spread out in her hand, and pressed it
passionately to her lips ; the action concealing
her face completely. Then her hand
closed and dropped, a few flower-petals
fluttered to the floor, and the inspector and
Mr. Warrender saw that her eyes were
shut. They waited for a little, after which
the inspector said,

We must go."

At the same instant there was a faint
sound, like the click of a lock, and the
closed eyes slowly opened. The two men
rushed to the side of Beatrix, but she had
eluded their vigilance. The poison of
which she had spoken to Mrs. Mabberley asher
father's " legacy," had furnished her with
the means.

CHAPTER XII.

THE NEXT OF KIN.

nne following is an extract from a letter
-*- written by Mrs. Masters, at Chesney
Manor, to Colonel Masters, at Chundrapore,
a month after the incidents related in the
preceding chapters :

To-day, Helen has been pronounced
out of danger, and the first effect of this
great relief is that I am able to write for
you a brief account of what has occurred
since the terrible events of which my last
letter informed you. I shall begin with
Helen herself, who was taken ill on the
very day preceding the atrocious murder

of Mr. Horndean, and within a few hours
after Miss Merrick arrived here to confer
with me upon the anonymous letter. Miss
Merrick and I arrived at the conclusion
that Helen's illness must be the result of
the shock of finding that Mr. Lisle was a
constant visitor at Horndean, and that she
might be exposed to the risk of meeting
him. Only that morning, she had taken
so composedly the revelation of this, and
the curious complication of our finding that
the Mr. Lisle who visited at Horndean
and her treacherous lover, whom the writer
of the anonymous letter to Madame Morrison
professed to have seen there, were
two different persons, that I was quite
deceived. I really thought her youth, and
the quiet, happy life she had been leading
with us, had got her over her trouble,
and I was surprised as well as distressed
by the feverish, almost frantic way in
which, a few hours later, she clung to
Miss Merrick and seemed to yield at once,

unresisting, to illness. The events which
immediately ensued, the murder of Mr.
Horndean, the awful death of Miss
Chevenix, the investigation here, of which
I shall tell you presently, her own critical
state, were all unknown to her ; the brain-fever
declared itself rapidly. I believe that
she has known all through her illness that
Miss Merrick was with her  the most admirable
and untiring nurse I ever saw  and
so great was Miss Merrick's influence over
her that John and I resolved to abide by
her advice in all things respecting Helen.
A part of that advice is that we should not
revert to the mystery of the identity of Mr.
Lisle. My brother has been told Helen's
story  Jane discovered that she urgently
desired that he should know it  I am happy
to say that he feels about it just as I do, and
he entirely agrees with this view. The
matter has lost much of its importance by
the change that has, taken place at Horn-dean
; Helen has little to fear now, not only

because of Mr. Horndean's death, but on
account of another event, to which I am
coming. Similar advice has been given us
by Mr. Moore. Strange to say, the first
wish she expressed was to see Mr. Moore,
and he came at once. It was necessary
that she should learn the fact of Mr. Horn
can's death as soon as possible, for reasons
which you shall hear presently. And he
undertook to inform her of it.

"Their interview was a long one. We
were afraid of the effect, but it proved beneficial.
We suppose her asking to see Mr.
Moore, and being so restlessly anxious
about it, is to be explained by the last impression
on her mind before her illness
came on having been associated with him ;
at all events it was fortunate, for he seems
to have managed very well. She will have
to make a good deal of effort at the earliest
safe moment, and she is gaining strength
for it more rapidly than we could have
hoped. 'Let the past rest completely;

never recall it to her by a question.' was
Mr. Moore's counsel. I objected, e but suppose
the real man to turn up ; and he
might now be very willing to try his chance
with her, what then?' To this Mr. Moore
made the oracular reply : ' It would be
time enough to meet that contingency if it
arose.' Of the anonymous communication
made to Madame Morrison, Helen knows
nothing. She is very silent, and seems
satisfied to see that Miss Merrick is there,
without asking why ; she lies for hours quite
still, and frequently asks to be left alone ;
this is always yielded to, and she is, as I
began by saying, quite out of danger. And
now for my story.

The sensation caused here by the murder
of Mr. Hornclean has not yet subsided. The
frightful charge brought by the wretched
criminal against Miss Chevenix, and the
catastrophe to which it led, intensified the
general feeling, and the neighbourhood is
not yet free from the perquisitions of newspaper

reporters. As you know, John was
present when the terrible story was told to
the Townley Gores, and to the unhappy
girl, who listened only to the promptings of
her despair. He does not believe the accusation
against Miss Chevenix  in which the
murderer persists  nor does Mr. Lisle.
John remained in town, to assist in the
dreadful task which the Townley Gores had
to fulfil : the inquest on the miserable
woman, and the funeral arrangements. The
merciful verdict of 'temporary insanity'
enabled them to bury her with Mr. Horn-dean
; the double funeral was a most
melancholy spectacle. Mr. Osborne, who,
as you will remember, was in the room
when the poor girl took the poison, was unable
to officiate; the services of a strange
clergyman were secured. Mr. Osborne was
not even able to be present, and I never
saw John so much unnerved. Mr. Townley
Gore came down to Horndean the day before
the funeral ; Mr. Lisle received him.

and John went to him in the evening. He
was quite scared and broken down, and
gave a sad account of his wife's state. She
seems ,to have had a slight paralytic stroke.
No wonder, to lose her brother and her
friend, both within a few hours of each
other, and in such awful ways; and then,
the dreadfulness of the inquest in the house !
And the scandal, which she would think of,
I fancy, very nearly as much. I felt very
sorry for her, although she is such an
odious woman, and although Helen, whom
she had so wronged, was at that moment
dangerously ill. She has had a tremendous
blow, for, even if she has no heart, she has
pride and ambition, and they are laid low ;
besides, John cannot bear me to say she
cared more for her brother's possessions and
position than for himself. I daresay her
grief is as profound as her mortification.
Mr. Townley Gore  I have seen him a few
times since  seems quite dazed by all this
trouble, and yet there is a certain air about

hi in which I cannot help remarking, and
which would be amusing, if everything about
this matter were not too terrible to admit
of such an idea. It is an air of indignant
surprise, as if he really could not understand
the taking of so great a liberty with
him by Fate. He depended entirely on
John and Mr. Lisle. Nothing can be more
admirable than Mr. Lisle' s conduct ; and he
it is who really feels Mr. Horndean's death.
I believe they were very old and close
friends, and there must have been something
in the young man, against whom I
always felt a prejudice, to win such regard
from one so frank, single-hearted, disinterested,
and unconventional.

The family solicitor, Mr. Simpson, of
the firm of Simpson and Rees, to whom you
sent Mr. Rhodes' papers, came down to
attend the funeral. The two coffins met at
the gate of the churchyard. Think, dearest
Arthur, of the awfulness of that, for the
silent sleepers in them had parted full of

hope only a few days before, and that very
night they were to have gone to a great
fancy ball, and Miss Chevenix was to have
worn those fatal jewels. There was a tremendous
crowd, but perfect order was kept.
Mr. Townley Gore had to return to London
on account of his wife's illness, and business
matters were gone into at once. There was
no will. Mr. Horndean had not intended
to have any marriage settlements, but Mr.
Simpson knew what arrangements he meant
to make afterwards ; they were most generous.
And now comes the pith and point of
my story. According to the will of the late
Mr. Horndean, the whole of the property
was to go, failing heirs general of his successor,
to his own nearest of kin, or the descendants
of that person. No one, except
the lawyers, had ever taken the trouble to
inquire who the individual, so little likely
ever to emerge from the obscurity in which
old Mr. Horndean's own origin was wrapped,

might be. But Mr. Simpson arrived
at Horndean with all the necessary information
ready to be produced, and when the
gloomy company, consisting of himself, Mr.
Townley Gore, Mr. Lisle, and John, were
assembled in the library, he startled Mr.
Townley Gore by requesting that he would
tell him what was his latest news of Miss
Rhodes? John says the question agitated
Mr. Townley Gore so visibly that he could
not resist the conviction that, since the terrible
calamity occurred, compunction has been
visiting that selfish and worldly man.

' Why do you ask me ?' he said. ' What
has she to do with our present business ?'

' A great deal,' answered Mr. Simpson.
When I wrote to you for Miss Rhodes'
address, in the summer, I was pursuing
certain investigations, which I brought to
a conclusion soon afterwards. Those investigations
rendered it advisable that I
should know where Miss Rhodes was to

be found, in case that contingency should
arise, with which we are unhappily face to
face to-days

' What contingency ? I do not understand
you.'

'the death of Mr. Horndean without
heirs. The estate devolves on the descendants
of the late Mr. Richard Smith of
Nottingham, who was the next of kin to
the late Mr. Horndean. Now, this Mr.
Richard Smith died twenty years ago,
leaving one daughter ; she survived him
only a few years. That daughter was the
wife of the late Reverend Herbert Rhodes,
and she left an only child, Helen, who is
the sole heir to the estate of Horndean.'

"It is all perfectly true, my dearest
Arthur. The letters which our dear friend
directed should be sent to England, and
which you sent, are all in Helen's possession.
Miss Merrick knew where to find
them  'the poor child kept them in a box

which that wicked man gave her  and we
had to hand them over to be examined,
while she was lying between life and death,
and when they did not know but that
another next of kin would have to besought
for. The evidence was there, in the
simplest, clearest form ; there was no difficulty
of any kind. The old gentleman
must have seen Helen, in her penal days at
the Townley Gores, without the remotest
idea that she was of his kindred. She
steps into the estate and position of the
brother of the odious woman who was so
merciless to her; she will be mistress in the
house where Mrs. Townley Gore was so
fond of queening it. The old romances are
put out of countenance by so hard a fact as
that Helen Rhodes is Miss Horndean of
Horndean !

11 It would not be in human nature  at
least, in Townley Gore nature that they
should not feel both bitterly and awkwardly

vol. in. u

about this strange turn-up of fortune. Asa
matter of fact, we do not know what they
feel, for we have heard nothing since Mr.
Townley Gore went back to London, having
expressed with the utmost propriety his
confidence that the interests of Miss Rhodes
were in the best hands. He looked very
foolish, however, when, on Mr. Simpson's
asking him whether he would wish himself
to convey the important information to his
young friend at Madame Morrison's, John
was obliged to explain that Miss Rhodes
was no longer there, but at Chesney Manor.
He rallied, nevertheless, like a true man of
the world, and made a polite rejoinder.
And then there occurred one of those things
which interrupt the solemnity of the most
solemn and even tragic scenes. The irrepressible
f bit of an artist ' showed itself in
Mr. Lisle through all the keenness of his
distress, when he discovered the identity of
the heiress of Horndean with our children's

pretty governess, and he said :  I only
caught a glimpse of her as she stood at the
top of the steps, full in the light, but I told
poor Frederick that morning what a pretty
girl she was. What a pity it is that he
never saw her.' John told this to me and
Mr. Moore when he came in, as a trait in
Mr. Lisle that he liked. We have seen a
good deal of Mr. Lisle ; the children are
devoted to him, and I think they do him
good. He has a horror, as we all have, of
the trial of Ramsden. It will take place
soon. Helen has said literally nothing
about her own position, except that she
hopes we will allow her to remain with us,
and that she wishes Horndean to be shut
up for a year."

The following is an extract from a letter
written by Mrs. Masters, at Chesney Manor,
to Colonel Masters, at Chundrapore, six
months later :

u2

If only you were. here in these beautiful
summer days, how lovely this place would
be ! But you are not here, and I want to
get away from it, and back to dry and dusty
Chundrapore. Only the old story, but with
a difference this time, because I see my way
to getting back with an easy mind. Helen
and Jane have been talking to me this
morning, with, I need hardly say, a running
accompaniment by Mr. Lisle, and the proposal
which Helen begs me to submit to
you, with a request that you should ' wire'
your answer, is that she should remain herewith
Jane, and take charge of the children,
until after next Christmas, and should then
remove with them to Horndean. We hope
John will have had enough of mummies,
cataracts, and crocodiles, by that time, and
will be induced to come home and finish
his big book at Chesney Manor. I could
leave the children in Helen's charge with
perfect confidence. It seems an ideal arrangement.

What do you say to it, my
dearest Arthur ? Let it be ' yes and do,
pray, grease your lightning in reply. Helen
has been ever so much better and brighter
since this plan occurred to her. She seems
to find all her happiness in aiding that of
other people ; and her gratitude is too profound
and sensitive. She has almost recovered
her health, but a great sadness and
weariness hung about her for a long time
after her illness, and are, indeed, not dispelled
even yet. It is remarkable how her
physical and moral likeness to her father
grows. It is pretty to see the sympathy,
the sweet gravity, the total absence of anything
like envy or regret with which this
dear girl, whose life had been so spoiled
and laid waste, views and fosters the budding
love-affair between Jane and Frank
Lisle. He goes away occasionally, but he
is always darting back, and he has a general
invitation here, and also to the rectory.

I need hardly tell you that he is painting
Jane's portrait, and really very well.
He flatters himself that he is the soul of
impartiality, when he says to me, looking
at the picture with his head on one side,
and his eyes shining with admiration, { No
one could call her handsome. But what a
heavenly expression, and what divine hair !
Talk of golden locks, my dear Mrs. Masters,
nothing but that blue-black hair is worth
painting

"The rule that we laid down for ourselves
at the time of Helen's illness has been
adhered to. No allusion is ever made to
the past, and she is losing her frightened
manner, and beginning to take her place
with an easy, modest dignity that I never
tire of observing. There is a good deal of
business for her to transact, and Jane,
who, as Frank Lisle remarks with delight,
could govern a colony with ease, and
is not to be made wink by all the

figures that ever had to be totted up,
assists her. If she ever mentions that
wicked man, it is to Mr. Moore, but of
this we have no proof, it is only a surmise.
He told me not long ago that he was sure
Helen believed the man to be dead, and
that he shared her conviction. So, as we
hope this may be true, we agree to believe
it. She has had a very handsome monument
erected in Notley churchyard, and
a beautiful window placed in the church,
in memory of Mr. Horndean ; a second
inscription on the former records that
in that spot rests also ' Beatrix Chevenix,
his promised wife.' One is always finding
out traits of goodness in this dear girl,
some of them so like her father. She has
taken great pains to ascertain what were
Mr. Horndean's views and plans about the
estate, and his tenants, and dependents,
being resolved to carry them out ; but he
seems never to have formed any. I fancy

he was merely careless and good-natured,
with no sense of responsibility, one of those
of whom it has been said, ' eat, drink, and
be merry ; but this night thy soul shall be
required of thee.'

The guilt or innocence of Miss Chevenix
remains an unsolved problem. No trace
has been found of the people who passed
as Colonel and Mrs. Ramsden, or of Mrs.
Mabberley. Her disappearance is one of
the 'baffles,' as Dick Driveller would say,
which mortify and exasperate the police ;
she must have had faithful confederates, and
large resources to do what it is believed she
has done. Not that one word tending to
criminate her was elicited from Ramsden ;
her sudden disappearance, abandoning a
good deal of property (though at the same
time leaving a large amount of debt), is the
only witness against her. On the other
hand, the murderer persisted up to the last
in his charges against Miss Chevenix. It

was not until the day before his execution,
when he was visited by Mr. Osborne, that
he learned that the object of his vindictive
hatred, for such she evidently was, was
beyond his reach ; and then his blasphemous
rage was horrible to behold. Mr. Townley
Gore, on whom John called just before he
left England, imparted to him a theory
which may have some truth in it. It was
that the unhappy girl was a tool, but not an
accomplice, of the gang of thieves ; that she
was accompanied on her visits to great
houses by a maid who was in their pay (she
admitted to Mrs. Townley Gore that her
maid was engaged by Mrs. Mabberley and
under her control), and that the information
and aid which Ramsden declared was
supplied by her, was in reality furnished by
her attendant. The supposition struck John
as being so probable that he made inquiries
at Horndean about the maid who was therewith
Miss Chevenix, and ascertained that

she was a Frenchwoman, and that her name
was Delphine. This struck a light for
Jane ; the woman who waited on Helen at
Neuilly was called Delphine. We concluded
that it was she who had written to Madame
Morrison, she who took Frank Lisle for the
man whom poor Helen had called her
husband.

Then came the difficulty that the letter
said that the writer of it had seen Mr. Lisle
at Horndean, but Jane disposed of that at
once as an exaggeration, the amplification
of a shrewd guess, for the French girl who
waited on Helen had never seen the man
who called himself Frank Lisle ; her so-called
identification of him therefore went
for nothing, if, indeed, the letter were
written by her.

"Madame Morrison, having been informed
of all this by Jane, went to Neuilly to seethe
concierge and his wife, who were, she
understood, the parents of Helen's attendant,

and to find out something about her.
She failed, the people were no longer there,
and the legend concerning them in the
neighbourhood was that their daughter had
married in England and emigrated to
America, and that they were gone to join
her there, a la mode Anglaise, which was
quite foreign to French ways and ideas.
There the matter has ended, and the
mystery remains. Whether i the. world '
believes or does not believe that Miss
Chevenix was guilty, one thing is certain,
it does not care, and it has forgotten
her. Mrs. Townley Gore is, I am told,
a distressful spectacle. The slight attack
of paralysis distorted her face, only a
little, but just enough to shake the
beauty of it, and destroy her ' well preserved'
look. When people say of a
woman of the world l she is quite a wreck,'
they pass sentence ; her day is done. Cold
curiosity was the only feeling her misfortunes

excited ; cold curiosity was all she
would have felt for others in a similar case ;
and I suppose people of her world really
do regard a family in which a murder has
taken place, in something of the light in
which Mr. Chester puts it in ' Barney
Judge.' At any rate, her star is waning,
and her discontent is great. She is terribly
afraid of a second attack of paralysis, which
would probably not be slight. She has
contemptuously rejected Helen's gentle
overtures, showing an unworthy bitterness
and meanness of spirit. She cannot forgive
Helen because she has wronged her, because
she is the possessor of Horndean, because
she bears the name that was her brother's.
A wretched mind to drag about and live
with ! Mr. Townley Gore is not of her way
of thinking. He would be friends with
Helen if he dared, and she always hopes the
time will come. She rates his worthless
kindness, that lacked courage so completely,

much too highly ; but unreasonable gratitude
is a fault one pardons readily, for its great
rarity.

"How anxiously I shall look for your
message ! John is at Cairo. He would
meet me at Alexandria. Say ' yes.' "

Thus did circumstances aid Helen to keep
her word to her false lover. She will never
reveal his secret, and, if it should be divined
by one who is as true as he was false, it will
be held sacred for her sake.

