CHAPTER I.

MISS DELTA  MISTRESS PRIDE.

*' My brain, methinks, is like an hour-glass,
Wherein imagination runs like sands,
Filling up time ; but they are turned and turned,
So that I know not what to stay upon,
And less to put in act." Ben Jonson.

There is no change in the picture that any
day in the year makes of Rood Hill at Aiild-
caster though we put back the clock half a
century or so. The street is broad, and rises
in a gradual ascent from the market-place
to the parish church  a noble church, having
a square tower of great massiveness, and a

VOL. I. A

peal of eight bells, called the finest bells in the
county. About half-way up the hill stands the
White Hart, the principal inn of the town,
and on the other side, looking north, is a
timbered house of the seventeenth century.
Each upper story overhangs the one below,
and the framework of the black cross-beams
in the ochre-plastered walls is shown throughout.
It has five gables towards the street,
on which falls the warm glow of the summer
sun at setting, and hence its name of the
House with Golden Gables. There is no other
house above it until the rectory is reached 
nothing but a brick wall enclosing a garden,
of which the antiquity may be guessed at by
the grand cedars that rise above it. Beyond
the church and the rectory the hill merges
into country. The land is glebe, and the
slow-o:rowino: town has crown in other directions.


The House with Golden Gables was In the
occupation of Judge Daventry, her grandfather,
when Miss Delia  Mistress Pride was born
there. She was his first grandchild, the first
child of his only son. The Daventrys were
an Auldcaster family of long and honourable
traditions. The judge had retired from the
bench before he had earned his pension. His
health had broken prematurely under the strain
of work too incessant ; and the physicians promising
him a lengthened life, with ease and
leisure, he had chosen that, and comparatively
straitened means, rather than a lengthened
service, with Its certain penalty and doubtful
gain. He had bred his son to the law, had
countenanced his early marriage, and invited
the young couple to share his home. They
were cheerful company In the country in
intervals of business. The baby was born
while her father was absent on circuit at

Beaumlnster. He was back at Auldcaster
for her christening in September. She was
christened DeHa, and they made a great day
of it. Holy Cross Day was the day.

The rector who christened the Httle DeHa
was a Daventry, and his presentation to Auldcaster,
and his arrival with his bride, was a
welcome addition to the circle of relations and
dear friends of whom the judge was the centre.
Miss Delia was the forerunner of a numerous
progeny. Babies soon ceased to be phenomena
in the House with Golden Gables. It was full
of them, and all boys except Miss Delia. The
rectory more than rivalled its fecundity. But
the Daventrys were a good stock, and Auldcaster
was apt to say that there could not be
too many of them.

Another cousin of the name was master of
the grammar-school where all the boys had
their early education. Later, one went to Eton

and two to Westminster, and two went to the
sea  the Church, the Law, and the Navy were
the professions that the Daventrys favoured.
The girls had their education at home, and
the holidays, when the brothers and cousins
came back, were seasons of great jollity.

Simplicity of having prevailed amongst the
long-seated gentry in the neighbourhood of
Auldcaster much later than amongst the newly
enriched generation who, in more progressive
parts, were already pushing them from their
places. The House with Golden Gables had
a spacious freedom in its large rooms and
broad staircases, but no luxury of ornament
or pomp of furniture. The oak boards were
dark with age and friction, but there was a
scarcity of carpets everywhere. On the staircase
none, in the dining-parlour none, in the
judge's study none, in the ante-room none ; and
in the withdrawing-room, as the great parlour

was called, only Indian matting laid before the
hearth, and erandmamma's sofa, and mamma's
writing-table, but it had a rare comfort in its
homeliness. The grotesque china whim had
infected some lady of the house in Queen
Anne's time. There were jars in the corners
big enough to pot a baby, and bowls and jugs
and cups and ugly images showing themselves
off on black velvet shelves. A Japanese folding-screen
survived from the same date, and on
the walls hung many fine portraits of various
dates ; for it had been a custom of the
Daventrys to perpetuate the faces of their
distinguished men and beautiful women. The
glory of the house was one of these : a
Vandyke portrait that went in the family by
the name of the French Madam. It hung
above the fireplace in the withdrawing-room
a formal, youthful figure in a dress of
amethyst velvet, with a collar of pearls, and

a band of the same in the flowing auburn hair.
The hands were crossed Lightly in front, and
displayed a wedding-ring and some very
splendid jewels. The features were fine and
delicate, and the colouring was lovely, but
the countenance was without charm, pervaded
by a melancholy and haughty humour;.

Miss Delia's eyes had opened to the world
In a bed-chamber hung with unbleached linen
worked all over in worsted devices of trees and
birds, and the same antiquated drapery still
adorned her mother's chamber when she was
a girl grown up  adorned her own chamber
too, which was made beautiful in a primitive
fashion because she was beautiful and o-ood

o

and very precious, the one sweet daughter of
the house. She was the mark of love and
homage from her birth. The boys called her
Mistress Pride, but in pure fun and affection,
because she had a likeness to the exquisite

French Madam ; and the lofty petulant airs
with which she queened it amused both bo's
and men. The judge was the only one whoever
took her to task, and he was, perhaps,
the most devoted to her, as appreciating her
fine qualities the most justly.

She had not many faults, and what she had
were the flaws of a strong character. She was
imperious and exacting, but with a natural
inclination towards goodness, and was always
ready, even eager, to deny herself to do a
kind or charitable action. Amongst the girls
she was allowed the first place as the one of
most excellent ability, though she did not
possess the lighter accomplishments In the
same perfection as Fanny, Grace, and Emmeline
at the rectory. The sole distinctive
feminine taste that she cultivated sedulously
was for needlework, and her embroidery-needle
she used with a most patient skill and Ingenuity

to enrich her dress. She delighted In grand
attire, and the grandest became her, as she
Heed to prove on festive occasions when she
got leave to equip herself out of an old chest
where reposed in tarnished lustre the court-costumes
and bride-clothes of her fore-mothers,
going back to the days of sacque and cardinal.
Then the elders would signify their
tender and gracious approval, and the boys
would pay her their compliments all round.
Vanity was quiescent in her, for she was inured
to admiration, but being called Mistress Pride
was sweetest flattery from lips that loved her,
because the oricrlnal was crlorlous in hero

o

beauty, and she knew no desire yet so warm
as the desire to rival her.

With a little more knowledge came a change
of sentiment.

One day, when she was about sixteen years
old, she said to her grandmother, standing

contemplatively before the Vandyke portrait :
'' Grana, this lady was not French. She
was born in this very house where I was
born."

Little girls should not ask questions,"
replied the old lady, ignoring the fact that
the little girl asked no question, but made a
statement.

The reply was meant to silence her, and it
was effectual ; but when next her brothers cried
out on her as Mistress Pride, she cried out on
them aealn : " I will not be called after that
loathly lady ! " and voice, gesture, accent, were
all of the fiercest repulsion.

The boys struck comical attitudes of terror
and dismay, the judge clapt his newspaper
down on his knee, grand mamma looked over
her spectacles aghast, mamma exclaimed :
"My love ! my love ! "

Delia stood tall and towering, blushing

defiance, amazed, angry with herself, trembling
fast Into tears, into timidity.

*' It is an unworthy name to give your
sister," said the judge with a significant nod
to the boys, who vanished.

He resumed his study of the debates, not
altogether undisturbed. Grandmamma's hands
shook as she plied her knitting - needles.
Mamma toyed with her pen as if what she
had been about to write to her absent husband
were scared out of her recollection.

Delia, who has talked to you of the
French Madam ? " her mother asked her presently
in private.

** Abby," said she ; for she was too courageous
to prevaricate. But the colour came
hot into her face.

That was enough. Abby took her departure
from the House with Golden Gables.
She had done loner and faithful service there.

and the judge pensioned her. She went too
far off to pervert or instruct Miss DeHa anymore.
Only the other day DeHa was a child
to them all  a simple, innocent, lovely child 
but from this time her elders realised that
the workings of her heart and mind had
ceased to be an open study. She had no
stint of that curiosity which betrayed the
mother of us all. She looked and saw, heard
and understood, thought and discovered, as
Nature taught and guided her. Some of
her discoveries she kept to herself, and the
name of Mistress Pride, forbidden now,
seemed to match with her mien and air
better than ever.

Give her more occupation ; give her more
amusement. Why does she not study and
exercise her mind ? She is waiting too soon
for life to begin," said the rector, sought to
for advice by Delia's mother.

When he had examined her for confirmation
the year before, he had found her less
well informed of her duties, moral and religious,
than some of her humbler contemporaries.
He had found also ample room for
improvement in her general education. He
warned those who were responsible that they
were taking too much for granted of Miss
Delia's powers, and mentioned the fable of
the hare and the tortoise. He mentioned
also that nothing keeps down the growth of
weeds in the youthful soul more effectually
than the steady training of the fruit-bearing,
active virtues. In their immense admiration
of their beautiful daughter her parents lightly
regarded these admonitions of their spiritual
pastor and hers. He spoke his judgment,
and had done. Her mother remembered later
when the opportunity of docile girlishness was
past retrieval.

The young Daventrys were so large a circle
that they did not want society beyond themselves,
and thus Miss Delia failed of one of
the most essential parts of education. She
missed the joys of youthful friendship and
the discipline of youthful collisions. She lived
at home without a rival, without an equal
amongst her companions, who were just her
cousins, who confessed her superiority and
felt her oppressive.

At nineteen Miss Delia was a will and an
influence in the house  a stonewall and a
pervading influence. She had continued to
follow her own ways of working and playing,
and had been too much induced in them to
be diverted into other ways by any hint that
other ways might be better. Schemes were
proposed for her improvement but she waived
them, or despised them. It had begun to be
acknowledged that Delia would do as she

liked, and would not bear control. Her
mother thought tenderly that what she liked
was almost always becoming, and said that
she had a fine discernment in choosing what
was right and ht to do. The judge as tenderly
demurred. Every rule has its exceptions.
Delia's notions were mostly evolved from her
own consciousness. Her opportunities of fresh
observation and comparison were few, and
what was familiar she made little account of.
Otherwise she had rare examples. What she
mused of when she sat so many hours plying
her needle for the flowering of a petticoat ora
gown, who shall tell ? She was not intellectual.
She did not read, had no store of
fine conceptions of fine authors to revolve.
She was not emotional, had no cud to chew
of sweet or bitter experience. Perhaps she
built castles in the air, and was herself the
illuminating presence of every chamber. Or

perhaps she thought of nothing. Yet when
sae rose from her favourite seat in the recessed
window at the end of the withdrawing-room,
and stept stately across the floor, the judge,
observing her with pathetic shrewdness, saw
that the young creature was rapt away by
delusive fancies, enacting some splendid part to
the deafening applause of her own imagination.
These were her glorious moments, real and
unreal as when a lunatic dreams himself a

kino.

One day her eldest brother Walter, the boy
from Eton, came suddenly upon her descending
the staircase, wide enough to drive a
coach. She held her scanty dress like a royal
train, she pointed her foot, straightened her
back, stiffened her neck, tossed up her head
with ineffable airs.

'room there for Mistress Pride!" whispered
the lad, and bowed low with mimic reverence.

Delia started, almost imperceptibly modified
her majesty of gait, and passed him with a
sweeping indignation. She was vexed and
mortified because Wat had caught her playing
the tragedy queen. Wat forgot it the next
hour, but Delia did not forget it, nor that he
had mocked her. She loved him the less for
It, and she feared him.

Her propensity to sumptuous reverie increased.
Daily the bare chambers of the old
house were re-hung with fantastic tapestry
of her weaving out of dreams, while her perceptions
of pleasure In the world of nature
remained faint and cold. The sincrinof of birds,
the scent of flowers and their loveliness, the
rapturous morning and evening glory, stirred in
her no fibres of delight at all. On the other
hand, she was deeply interested in the names
and circumstances of men and women of condition
round about. When they were talked of

VOL. I. 13

she listened with an eager spirit of inquiry,
but if the conversation turned upon books, or
things, or public events, her attention soon
flagged. The other girls were happy in pairs,
but Delia seemed best pleased in her own
society. Even her mother stood outside her
confidence. Delia told her nothing of what
was in her mind. She had no pernicious
secrets, but those who dearly loved her were
grieved by her reserve, which was a growing
habit. When gently urged to talk, to say something,
she would ask with a quiet surprise:
'' What shall I talk about ? "

Let her alone. She has nothing to say,"
the judge interposed once, hearing her thus
answer her grandmother. He sat in reflection

o

a long while after, and when she had gone out
he muttered with a profound sigh : " God pity
her, poor thing ! " as if he foresaw her loneliness
of heart in days to come.

Another time he remarked that Cricket
would be a savlno grace to his sister. Cricket
was Edward, the last-born son of the family ;
a wistful-eyed atom of deformity, warped out
of shape by an accident in his babyhood.
Delia had a tenderness for him such as she
bestowed on no other person. He was very
dependent on tenderness, but uncomplaining,
of a lively temper and keen wit. Now and
then the rough, healthy brothers would try to
amuse him, but he would soon beg to be left
to sister. Then Delia, with a conscious joy
and triumph, would lift him in her arms, and
carry him out into the garden, and walk
between the long rows of espaliers till they
were both weary. He was easier in his
wheeled chair, but it was a loving favour to be
carried in the arms of sister. When then-mother
saw them making this procession, and
Delia's face bending over the child, slice said

to herself that, by and by, all would come
rioht with her daughter, when the magical
touch of love should unseal and set flowing
the hidden treasures of her arose and generous
heart.

CHAPTER II.

A NEW VERSION OF AN OLD SONG.

The merchant, to secure his treasure,
Conveys it in a borrowed name ;
Euphelia serves to grace my measure,
But Chloe is my real flame.

My lyre I tune, my voice I raise,
But with my numbers mix my sighs,

And whilst I sing Euphelia's praise,
I fix my soul on Chloe's eyes.

Fair Chloe blushed : Euphelia frowned :
I sung and gazed : I played and trembled :

And Venus to the Loves around

Remarked how ill we all dissembled."

Prior.

But twenty years old struck upon Miss
Delia, and no suitor had come knocking 'yet
at the door of the House with Golden
Gables.

'' I suppose we shall be courted some day,"

she said once, thinking aloud before her cousin
Fanny.

Fanny hoped so, indeed  Fanny was
eighteen, and had the prettiest dimple In
the sweetest cheek in the world.

The girls were standing under the cedars
in the garden. It was Deliass birthday, and
the occasion was being celebrated by a general
muster of the Daventrys and their nearest
friends. The lady of the day appeared
dressed in white, and was in a humour of lovely
condescension. Every one had brought her
flowers or gifts, and when these had been
presented, and the customary congratulations
offered and accepted, it happened that she was
left with Fanny alone, in the green shadow-where
she had stood to receive them. And
so left for a perceptible interval of time. She
fell into a muse, and was not more than half-conscious
of what she said in self-revelation.

Fanny did not know that her Cousin Delia
ever dreamed of Love. But, indeed, her
busy fancy went often to his encounter, in a
grand masque, with flourish of trumpets, and
pomp and universal homage. She would be
wooed with other charms than lovers' simple
vows.

Fanny had a meek, shy wish to be elsewhere,
but she was too kind to leave Delia by
herself. The elders were exchanging family
chat  the youngsters were waxing noisy at
some game. Many groups and pairs passed
by them. At length Cricket was wheeled into
the refuge of shade to his sister. Fanny might
have gone then, and not have been missed by
Delia, but the person who had wheeled up
Cricket robbed her of the wish to move. He
was a fine young gentleman of five or six and
twenty, a sanguine-tempered person who believed
and confessed that life was not made for

melancholy. Fanny complimented his arrival
with a delicate blush. Delia lifted her head
with the stately grace of Juno, and thanked
him for his care of Cricket.

This fine young gentleman was Mr. James
Herrick of Knowle, commonly called Jem
Herrick, the third son of Sir John Herrick of
Danesmore. Jem was born with the benediction
of fortune. He inherited a vigorous
frame and genial constitution from his parents.
They had given him, besides, a sound country-home
breeding, and his education at Westminster
and Oxford. Then the young man
had read for the bar, and generally amused
himself with foreign travel and study to the age
of four-and-twenty, drawing his funds from
his god-mother, a dowager with a handsome
property at her own disposal. It was an
understood thing that James Herrick was
to have it, and when this lady died in the

fulness of years and honours, she was able
to congratulate herself that Jem was old
enough to take to Knowle. He had taken
to it very kindly. It gave inn a position in
the county, and invested him with all the
duties, privileges, and responsibilities of a considerable
landowner. The house at Knowle
was famous and picturesque, and in the
judgment of the neighbours wanted nothing
but a mistress to make it perfect. But Jem
Herrick seemed in no haste to find her. He
had been master there eighteen months, and
was still a prize to be won.

As Miss Delia thanked Cricket's protector
he bowed With alacrity, then stood for a minute
modestly abashed, recovered himself with a
glance in Fanny's eyes, and on a word of
encouragement broke Into conversation. He
directed it entirely to Delia, only from time
to time including Fanny In a kind look of

reference. Fanny's voice was not heard, but
Delia spoke as one having power and authority
to hold men listening. It was, indeed,
wonderful how well she talked when she
had an audience that she desired to impress.
Many of the guests in the garden that afternoon
observed her, and some who loved her,
and some who did not, drew the like conclusion,
and whispered, or more discreetly
thought, that there would be weddings-news at
Knowle erelong. And Jem Herrii ck gave
them reason enough. He launched out with
an eloquent tongue in description of his travels
and adventures, and with his manly figure,
his frank countenance, and spirited air and
gestures, was a fair mark for any young lady's
fancy. Delia brightened into responsive animation
 it was almost a rivalry of wits. Fanny,
in soft eclipse, contributed nothing but now
and then a shyly mirthful smile and a timid,

blithe look out of her doves' eyes, which Jem
Herrick never failed to appropriate.

Similar scenes had been enacted before,
and were enacted many times again in the
weeks that followed. Mr. James Herrick
greatly affected that old garden which was in
common between the rectory and the House
with Golden Gables. Knowle was but three
miles from Auldcaster, and that was a most
delightful summer out-of-doors. Under the
cedars was pleasant than any parlour. The
young man had no company at home, and it
was natural that he should seek it abroad.
He was always welcome, and welcome to
everybody except, perhaps, to Cricket. That
child liked to absorb his sister In silence
all to himself; and when Mr. James Herrick
came, she was changed as by enchantment ;
she drew vivacious, and would hold forth on
a score of topics that did not concern him.

Possibly the reason why the rest assumed
that Jem Herrick came for Delia was because
Delia so undoubting assumed the case herself.
None but the jealous little observer in
the wheeled chair perceived differently, unless
the judge did, and the judge was not the man
to betray it, if he discerned what the lovers'
eyes said to each other. Fanny was gentle
and retiring, and Jem was no more crafty than
his conscience excused. Delia met him with
self-possession and confidence of her acknowledged
superiority. She in no wise feared
him, or flattered him, or idealised him. She
approved him, she believed that he approved
her, and was willing to be desired. Fanny
had little or nothing at his service but her
smiles, her blushes, and a sweet good-night or
good-morning. She often sat by, seemingly
disregarded ; but if, by chance, she went away,
Jem soon grew restless, uneasy; he lingered

as though loth to go, but his mind was absent,
let Delia be ever so gracious. It was Fanny
he loved, longed for, waited for.

And Delia  was her heart touched ? That
was a mystery. James Herrii ck was a lovable
man, but he had many attractions for
the ambitious mind besides his loveliness.
Delia's fancy ran much on Knowle, and she
realised the desirable adjuncts that the possession
of such a fair estate ensured. Her face
was her fortune, and she had set her hopes on
rank, riches, and honours, to match It. There
were heirlooms at Knowle in the shape of
jewels, point-lace, pictures, enamels, marbles,
carvings. These things embellished hero

o

reveries. She looked onward and upward.
If James Herrick, like the majority of younger
sons, had been waiting on promotion, Delia
would have asserted her right to be admired
by him, but he would not have dominated

her Imagination and topped her hopes as
the chief figure in her visions of the future.
Rich or poor, he would have won his pretty
Fanny ; poor, he might have sighed for Delia,
and sighed in vain. But Jem Herrick had
not to wait on promotion. He had achieved
honours at both Westminster and Oxford,
and meant to reap their rewards. There was
no name in that division of the county more
popular than James Herrick's, and a project
was on foot to bring him into Parliament as
one of its representatives at the next general
election. All these advantages Delia was
able to appreciate, and she was able to appreciate
the young gentleman himself as a worthy
suitor Love is blind, they say, but if she
had loved with her heart, she must have seen
that she had no hold on him, that she even
tired him sometimes. But what she wished,
she grew in the belief of. She put high lights

into her pictures. She carried Jem triumphantly
into the House of Commons, let him
attain to swift distinction there, let him rise
to fame, place, power. Then she elevated
him to the peerage, created him Earl of
Knowle, Marquis of Auldcaster.

Do you laugh ? Many men and women
have indulged in dreams just as baseless, just
as foolish.

Lady Knowle, Marchioness of Auldcaster,"
Delia whispered, trying the sound of her
titles m nubibits.

She paced the bare boards of her chamber,
heard the trail of velvet robes behind her, felt
the weight of a coronet on her straight brow.
She meant to be great to do good, like the virtuous
woman in Scripture, and the husband of
the virtuous woman was known in the gates.
Her magnificent hallucinations kept her in
serene blind humour. All the world was todo

her homage  its thank-offerlnof for noble
service.

When her fall came, it was a great fall,
indeed.

On a certain afternoon Cricket had got
his sister to himself in the recessed window.
She was at her needle-work and her dreaming,
and he had a book. The judge was accustomed
to say that Cricket would make a fine
scholar if he lived ; and between his lessons
and play-books and his sister s silent presence
he was ever supremely contented. Their
mother was out of sight, but within hearing,
and grand mamma's spectacles contemplated
the pair fondly, and often in the intervals of
changing her knitting-pins. By-and-by voices
were heard in the garden, and one of the
voices was Jem Herrick's. Delia craned her
neck to see. The rector was with him, and
Fanny walking by her father's side. They

turned twice or thrice on the long walk, and
Delia besan to fold her work. Cricket
watched her until he was sure what her
movements signified, and then he asked
with pettish sarcasm why she must go.

"When Cousin Fan is there, Jem Herrick
has all he wants," muttered he.

Delia o-knced at her little brother, smiling,
and rallying his presumption : " How do you
know that ? " she whispered. " Read your
Latin, Cricket, you will be a wise man some
fine day." And with that she opened a leaf
of the lattice, and cried to the three in the
garden : *' I am coming. Wait for me."

They all looked up, and stood where her

call arrested them. Fanny blushed, and Jem's

eyes sought hers behind her father's back with

a gaze of tender urgency. The rector left

them, and walked towards the house to meet

his niece. On an impulse of the moment her
VOL. L c

mother intercepted and delayed Delia, and the
lover had a minute to dispose of which he did
not waste.

Fan, let me speak to your father," said he
gravely. '' I don't think we shall take him by
surprise."

*' No, Jem, please, no ! " cooed she ; for at
the thought of that serious measure her heart
throbbed, her blush faded to white rose, and
her soft eyes filled with tears.

Yes, Fan, please, yes' rejoined Jem,
laughing at her, holding her by the chin
with kindest contemplation.

She put up her hand on his arm, but was
too timorous to prolong the pleading scene.
She heard Delia's approach, and fled from it.
How could she face her cousin with swimming
eyes? Jem Herrick turned to meet her
with boldness not entirely free from confusion.
Delia was looking radiantly handsome, and

bore herself with a proud, conscious grace.
She was talking to the rector in her high,
decided tone as she advanced, and she glanced
about in search of Fanny, but made no remark
on her evasion. It seemed natural, and no
less natural that after a few minutes the rector
also should move off, and she should be left
with Jem Herrick alone. And Jem was equal
to the occasion, which, indeed, demanded but
little. Delia had no fearful expectation of-being
taken by the chin, rifled of kisses, or
girdled unawares by a strong arm  tyrannies
of her lover which Fanny sweet, mild persuasiveness
had not, of late, been always
able to avert. Delia was as safe as her
grandmother armed with her knitting-pins,
and offered to Jem Herrick's fancy no more
temptation.

Fanny had carried her tremors and emotions
to her mother's bosom : " Oh, mamma, Jem

Herrick wishes to speak to papa ! " sobbed she
on her knees. 'what shall I do ? "

'* Leave It to us, my love," said her mother,
stroking her hair. Then as Fanny went on
sobbing, she added comfortingly : "Jem is In his
right. Some day you will run to him as confidently
as you run to me." Fanny looked up
with wonder and reflection In her face : *' But,
indeed, my love, I think you do it already"

Fanny found no more to sob and cry for.
It was true that she had come with gradual

o

self-consciousness to regard Jem Herrick as a
pillar of strength, a refuge In difficulty and
distress. A lovely rosy smile broke like sunlight
through the capricious shower of her tears,
and clasping her hands, she made her confession
: " Mamma dear, I am very happy."

'' God bless you for a good child. Fan ! You
deserve to be happy."

Meanwhile the mother of Delia watched at

the window in troubled perplexity. James
Herrick paced beside her daughter with what
patience he might, whilst sadly eager for his
dismissal. Several times they stood still, Delia
in high animation, and Jem rather perverse
and cavalier, as the observer interpreted his
manner. They were interrupted by the judge,
and a few minutes after Jem made his
escape.

That evening Delia was asked how she
would like a journey to London  London was
yet in the swing of the season. The proposal
came without preface or warning, and it came
from her grandfather. Delia's first impulse
was joyfully to accept it. She had never been
in London. At that date young ladies of the
minor gentry were not expected to go to court
and shine in London society. But on second
thoughts she hesitated. Grandmamma peremptorily
obliterated her hesitation.

*' You must go, Delia. The chance may
not recur. Thank your grandpa for his
kindness," said she.

Delia was instantly obedient, and thanked
him quite charmingly. Her mother gave her
some excellent advice when they were alone,
and seemed not a little depressed at the prospect
of parting with her. Delia, on the
contrary, was gay, and full of joyous anticipations.
In the interim she was busy with her
wardrobe, a rather scanty wardrobe, but she was
to have leave to visit a milliner in town. She
talked openly of Jem Herrick, and wished she
could have bidden him come to London too.
She wanted him to be let know what a o;reat
event was happening to her, and finding Lady
Herrick at the rectory when she ran in thereto
solicit Fanny's help, she invited her to
tell him. Jem's mother kissed the girl with
unusual warmth and tenderness. But she did

not deliver the message. And James Herrick
did not appear again at the House with
Golden Gables until after Miss Delia's departure.


CHAPTER III,

A HARD REBOUND.

Within her breast, as in a palace, lie

Wakeful ambition leagued with hasty pride."

Fletcher.

Judge Daventry's son had worked hard in his
vocation, but he was on the wrong side in
politics ; and though he had achieved professional
distinction, he had not achieved promotion
yet. His family was expensive, and he
called himself a poor man. A man is easily
poor who has a large family of sons to educate
and put out in the world. For this reason he
had never made himself a home independent
of his father's house. He was compelled to
be much in town, but his wife seldom followed

him. She stayed down in the country with
her children, and when their father came to
Aiildcaster it was a hoHday. He had talked
sometimes of a house in London, but it had
never been set up, and when the judge brought
Miss Delia to town for a month, to give hera
taste of its pleasures, they went into lodgings
in the lawyers' region of Bedford Square  the
same lodgings to which he had brought his
wife and daughter-in-law on previous occasions,
when events were transacting which few
people can hope to assist at more than once
or twice in a lifetime.

Delia imagined her grandfather to have
business on hand, but his sole business was to
provide her with agreeable distractions fora
while. He carried her to the play and the
opera, to Westminster Abbey and all the
public shows for which she had a curiosity oran

Inclination. Ladles of his own and her
father's acquaintance took her under their wing
to balls that were crushes and crowds, to drive
in the Park at fashionable hours, and otherwise
exerted themselves to make her visit a success.
She o-ot attention for her father's and grandfather's
sake, and admiration for her own,
though she was not of the most popular order
of beauty. She appeared to greater advantage
in classic repose than in lively motion, and
was more attractive to men of the world who
had had enough of its noise than to her
youthful contemporaries who still delighted to
dance and sing.

A letter from her mother brought to Delia
the intelligence of her Cousin Fanny's engagement
to Mr. James Herrick. The
writer diplomatically assumed that the event
which was gratifying to the family generally

must be gratifying to her daughter ; and
Delia, startled into the refuge of Imitation,
seized upon that cue, and acted appropriately.


Here is wonderful news, grandpa !
Cousin Fan Is gfoincr to be married, and to
whom do you think ? To Jem Herrick of
Knowle ! That is famous promotion for
Fan ! " cried she, holding out the letter.

I have expected it for some time," said
the judge pleasantly.

Delia's hand shook, and there was a fluctuating
colour in her face, but she carried off the
surprise with admirable stoicism. Her grandfather
adjusted his glasses to read the letter,
and when he brought its perusal to an end
Delia was quietly drinking her tea. She did
not speak again, which, considering the joyful
nature of the tidings, would have struck the
judge as strange had he not possessed an

Insight of the truth. He was touched by her
instinctive moderation and control.

When breakfast was done he got up, and
saying mildly : " You will write to Fan. Give
her my love and warm congratulations," went
out, committing his grand-daughter to the
counsels of silence and her own strong
common sense.

Delia sat for a long while without moving.
She read the letter aoain. The event was so
totally unexpected that she was more benumbed
by the shock than hurt by the blow.
Her countenance was blank, and she felt
nothing consciously, unless it were relief that
she was spared all softness, and a resolution
to betray none. Her mother had done wisely
to indicate self-suppression. It was a disappointment
not to be spoken of.

An hour elapsed before Delia could attempt
to write that letter which her grandfather had

reminded her ought to be written. It was not
an easy task. She had the habit of condescending
to Fanny as a trivial Httle soul who
could not live without petting, and had often
summed up in tones of kindly patronage those
modest charms to which James Herrick had
surrendered  ''A small nose piquant, a cherry
mouth, a pair of laughing eyes blue-grey, two

blush cheeks, item, one dimpled "

And this simple, happy face had won the
triumph that she would not have disdained.
It was a lesson for her  one of those lessons of
experience which bite Into the memory, never
to be effaced. And It was a sien of the
generosity that leavened her character when
she, at once, began to see Fanny through James
Herrick's spectacles, and to think the more of
her because he, whom all approved, had given
the crowning proof of manly worship In seeking
her for his wife. She re-considered Fan,

and took her at a truer measure, learning the
rule of proportion for their sex  that the most
womanly sweet woman is ever the best and
the strongest.

The letter when written was well enough.
Fanny's eyes glistened at it. Fanny's mother
said : '' Your cousin Delia has a noble disposition."


At the House with Golden Gables they
beo:an to wish now that Delia's mother had
gone with her to London. It was likely that
Delia wanted her, though she said nothing.
The judge perceived no difference In his
grand-daughter, unless It were that she laughed
more, and fell Into sudden fits of absence
between gushes of volubility. He was very
good to her, and found her abundant amusement
and occupation. .

Delia endeavoured to keep her painful
sensations all to herself. Four-and-twenty

hours sufficed to recover her from the shock
she had sustained, and to probe the wound
she had got. It was not mortal, not more
than she could hide, if she were let alone.
And she had great recuperative power. Her
face burned now and again, but she was
able to believe that she had no reason to
be ashamed.

Her thoughts were active, her feelings
complex and shifting. Soon her fancy,
impatient of a vacuum, began to disport itself
round a new object. This new object was, of
course, a possible lover  a man she had met
several times without seeing him, but who had
seen and marked her with critical approval.
He was of the same county as the Herrick
and Daventrys  Mr. Denys of Cote.

This gentleman was in great request at the
house where Delia had first met him. The
mother of the family spoke of him as being

very rich, and when one of the daughters objected
that he was very ugly, she was told that
after people were married that soon wore off,
and nothing was of less consequence. Delia
did not think Mr. Denys so very ugly. She
had never heard his name in the country, butin
the town, he was for that season a rather
conspicuous figure in the crowd  a man
interesting to lawyers as the winner of the
famous suit for the possession of Navestock,
and interesting to ladies as a bachelor of great
estate, arrived at the age when a man must
make haste to marry if he mean to marry
well.

That Mr. Denys meant to marry was
confidently asserted, but it was said that he
would be hard to please. Delia's new face
caught him. , It was discreetly whispered that
she had made a conquest. Her ears were
quick. She knew about Navestock. It made

a figure in the county history, and had
lessens belonging to it.

The judge had never met Mr. Denys until
they fell in together at the house of a common
acquaintance in London, but he knew him by
reputation, and was not of a mind to know
more of him. It was therefore a disagreeable
surprise when Mr. Denys called upon him at
his lodgings, and in his absence inquired for
Miss Daventry. Delia saw him. He outstayed
the limits of a morning visit on the
pretence of a neighbourly desire to be better
acquainted with her grandfather (he had a
more particular design in it than that), and they
made such progress in general conversation
that when they met again in the evening Mr.
Denys put himself forward with airs of friendly
assurance. The judge signified his astonishment
and disapprobation in a manner that
gave Mr. Denys pause ; and as they were

VOL I. D '

driving back to their lodgings he took DeHa
to task for her facility.

If there had been light enough to show it,
Delia's face would have apprized her grandfather
of the need for caution. She reddened
with anger, but as she did not speak he
believed that his admonition was being taken
in good part. He went on to tell her that
there had never been any league or alliance
between Cote and the House with Golden
Gables, and that if Mr. Denys ventured to
presume again, as he had presumed that
day, she must repel him, which, said the
judge, no young lady was better qualified
to do.

Deliass high spirit rebelled against this
direction. Her pride had not been dumb
since her ordeal began, and the prospect of
a deliverance unhoped for  of a deliverance
with signal triumph  had the effect of

spurring her ambition to new ardours. It was
known at home that James Herrick had
slighted her ; she thought that she did not
care for him any longer, but the remembrance
that she had cared for him was very irksome,
and Mr. Denys' approval was a balm that
went to relieve it.

A natural, modest hue of dignified reserve
appeared in her when they met next after her
grandfather's lecture. The judge received
Mr. Denys' civilities with a freezing coldness,
and withdrew the young lady from his
attention. Mr. Denys was piqued. But Delia
seemed to cast a wavering, unwilling glance
behind her in her retreat, and Mr. Denys was
encouraged.

Henceforward there was a covert sense of
attraction between the two. Mr. Den's knew
what he wanted, and that his opportunity was
now or never. Miss Daventry was manifestly

gratified when he distinguished her above
others. He sent her a letter, and she kept
it secret. He took his answer from her eyes
the same evening. He wrote the next day
with more boldness. Delia, in a commotion
of feeling, vouchsafed him a reply that was
gracious, and her fancy crystallised into an
imperious resolve that no law should stand
between her and this chance of advancement.
He addressed her again, and now in the
rapturous accents of a lover, sending her a
gift of jewels that seemed to her royal. Delia
blushed for shame at the secrecy of the transaction,
but her easy wooing had already run
its length, and when she accepted the offering
of Mr. Denys she accepted him with it, requiring
only that he would stay for her departure
from London before seeking her father's consent
to their marriage. Secure of her own,
a week's patience was not a very cruel imposition,

but the lover railed at it, and Delia
was flattered with a revived sense of predominance.


In the course of that week many private
communications were exchanged between them,
but in public they made no sign, and when the
judge carried his grand-daughter back to Auldcaster
his kind heart yearned over her with
the fondest affection. He had a sincere
anxiety about the meeting with her cousin
Fan and Jem Herrick. He need have had
none. Delia was satisfied with the reparation
that had been made her, and received the
lovers with a superb magnanimity. Her grandfather
commended her for a good girl, and
was intensely relieved to have that over. But
her mother was uncomfortably perplexed,
discerning symptoms of gratified pride in
her daughter's tone and mien, for which, as
there was no reason that appeared, there

must be a reason that was concealed. And
her mother did not like Delia's concealments.


Cricket, that keen-eyed, suspicious changeling,
went straight to the root of the matter,
and asked if she had found a lord for a lover
up in London.

No, Cricket, no lord' said his sister with
an intonation which, while denying the lord,
admitted the lover.

A very rich man, then ? "

Delia nodded, and laid her forefinger on
her lip.

Cricket acquiesced in the plea for silence,
but naturally wanted to know more. " Does
he live far off . "

"In this county. That is all I shall tell you
now  and remember, it is only between us
two."

Cricket looked up at his sister with a piercing

scrutiny : " Then you are not overjoyed ?
You are afraid ? "

Delia compressed her mouth with a petulant
gesture, and walked away.

Cricket threw another biting word after
her  " You are not proud of him ? You
know they will be vexed ? "

Delia's conscience had given judgment
against her. She was well aware that her
grandfather did not condemn men, as he had
condemned Mr. Denys, lightly or for nothing.
She was afraid. She trembled in anticipation
of the day of account. And yet she knew she
should stand fast in the end to what she had
undertaken. She got down the old county
history, and strengthened herself with a perusal
of the glories of Navestock, and a study of
the woodcuts in queer perspective that Illustrated
them. When she shut It up again, she

was able to look beyond the bad quarter of
an hour that had to be passed, and to contemplate
the scenery of her life in the distance
with a pale composure and courage.

CHAPTER IV.

DISCLOSURE.

She was ruddy through the perfection of her beauty : but her heart
was in anguish for fear."

Esther' Tie Apocrypha.

Miss Delia's humour did not continue lone in
one stay. Self-doubt and discontent crept in.
On the second evening: after her return from
London, secluded in her white chamber, she
brought out her fine jewels from their hiding-place,
and sat by the window with them in her
lap, absently bathing her hands in the pliant,
linked brilliance of necklace and bracelet and
band, and looking through tears at two figures
in the garden.

They were James Herrick and her cousin
Fan.

What Delia felt for their blithe condition she
did not analyse. It was exquisite pain. There
was the subtle, cruel bewitchment of envy in it.
She tried not to think of them, but of her own
triumph, soon to be disclosed. It was vain.
Across her visionary pageant came again and
again and again the shadows of that blissful
pair, felicitated by all the world, with father
and mother and friends doing them honour
and pleasure every hour, and happiest still
when they might stray off into some green
solitude, and see love alone in one another's
eyes.

If she had risen and beheld herself in the
glass, a stern face would have looked out at
her with a melancholy frown. But her beauty
did not retain the darkliuQ mask. And if
hard thoughts pestered her imagination, she
was the more careful to keep her heart from
evil, and to set a watch upon her lips.

Some of them could not but see the traces of
her conflict, and the deep sympathy of silence
screened it. Her mother was sorry and pitiful
beyond measure. She rose and listened
at her door in the night, but there was never
any cry for help. Once she asked to stay in
her daughters room, but Deliass reserve was
invincible.

** What for ? I am well, mamma," she said
sweetly.

Are you well, Delia ? Is there nothing
you want to tell me ? " she whispered,
pressing her close.

Delia looked in her mother's eyes, and
kissed her soft quivering mouth, but shut her
out.

Her mother thought that Delia blamed her,
perhaps. But it was not so. Delia had not
that way of casting her own fault upon
others.

There is more on her mind than we know,"
said her grandmother.

Her mother answered : " I am sure there
is. She is not only very unhappy, but she is
very anxious. There is a secret to come out
some doubtful matter. It was not wise to
send her away as we did."

"It was an experiment. We thought it
wise."

Thus they talked. The judge heard them,
but did not speak. He remembered Mr.
Denys of Cote, but still he did not speak. He
was observant, and perceived soon that Delia
was wary and suspicious of him. It must bea
secret, indeed, that could make her act
towards her grandfather as towards an enemy.

*' Pride never was a good counsellor, Delia,"
he said to her one evening with a wistful kindness,
to draw her back to him.

Delia felt conscious, and sighed. " Don't

believe worse of me, gran'papa, than you
must," was her reply.

It was not a confession, but it admitted that
there was need of confession. She was waitinor-
expectantly, and very uneasily now until the
disclosure was made.

They were walking in the garden in the
twilight, and others were walking there too.
It was one of the last times of her life.

The post letters were laid every morning
at the judge's end of the breakfast table, and
he distributed them. A little over a week
after their arrival at home he handed Delia a
letter, at the same time looking at her lone and
penetratingly. A torrent of blushes dyed her
face, and her eyes fell. The letter was one
about which there was no pretence of hiding
the matter. Mr. Denys had sealed it with his
own seal. Delia laid it down seal upwards,
and scorned to reverse it when Cricket espied

the crest, and Instantly referred it to the
owner.

There was no more talk after he had
spoken, but just as they began to move from
the table a noise was heard in the hall, and
Delia's mother glancing at her, said : '' It is
your father."

The young lady kept her place, her unopened
letter in her hand. All the others
turned towards the door to greet the newcomer.
There was a second door leading to
the servants' quarters and the back-stairs.
Delia bethought herself of that way of escape,
and when her father came in she had disappeared
: she was secure in her room, tearing
open, reading her letter, to get what light
and preparation from it she could for the
impending scene. Her heart throbbed, her
colour came and went, all her limbs shook,
but her pride swelled high.

Mr. Denys wrote that her father had given
his proposal a short hearing and a curt dismissal.
With many lover-like expressions he
added, that he depended upon her to keep
her word, and said that he should come to
Auldcaster to see her, whether her family gave
him leave or refused it. Delia felt that she
should see him thankfully  and confirm her
promise when he came.

She was in some awe of her father. His
honos absence made him less familiar to his
children than the judge was. Cricket called
to her presently : " Sister, are you not coming
to kiss papa ? " and she made ready to brave
them all.

That was a sad day at the House with
Golden Gables. Delia was pale and rigid, and
fierce too, as she went slowly down the grand
staircase. Her mother looked out of the
judge's study, and said: 'ewe are here, my

love;" and as she went in, and was folded ina
warm embrace, she was surprised to find
herself lapsing into tears.

The judge sat in his elbow-chair, leaning
back and wearing that austere countenance

o

which had made him awful on many a day to
conscious criminals. He was awful to Delia
now  a man so upright, yet so tender and
good, that the most hardened sinner might
well shrink from his merited rebuke. And
she had deceived him, had played a double
part  meanly double, immodest too. Her
pride could not blind her to that meanness,
that immodesty. The judge's opinion of her
behaviour, visible though not spoken, covered
her with shame and confusion.

Her father kept her for a minute within his
arms, surveying her with a mild sarcasm which
issued in the query : 'why so warlike, Delia ?
We are not enemies here."

Until now, Delia had been simply his
beauty. He had formed great expectations
of her. It had sometimes occurred to him
'hat she might have been more charming fora
strain of fun, a spark of wit, because he
loved a bright woman. He had even once
told her mother that they were spoiling her
in the country, letting her be too idle. And
here was the result.

He gave her a chair and seated himself, and
Delia found her mother and grandmother both
confronting her. She met their grieved eyes
with a clouded, stubborn look which augured
ill for them all. Unintentionally, perhaps unconsciously,
she had brought Mr. Denys' letter
crushed in her hand, and an instant call upon
her obedience was made by her father, saying,
Give me that letter, Delia." She started,
hesitated, but gave it. It was the shortest
way of making known her determination.

VOL. L E

Had Mr. Denys been a poor young gentleman,
handsome and high-spirited, whose suit
was resisted by her family for low, prudential
reasons, his letter would have seemed a very
fine letter, indeed; but to Mr. Daventry, who
knew him for what he was, it read like a
hollow, rhetorical effusion. There could be
no mistaking the derision and contempt with
which he glanced through it, and restored it
to his daughter.

'your grandfather played the duenna very
badly, my dear, to let such a gallant, gay
Lothario as Mr. Denys of Cote get possession
of your virgin affections, and with such
despatch too," he said caustic. " Can you
tell us how it happened ? "

Delia held up her head, blushing intensely,
but kept her eyes down, and answered nota
word.

'* Poor child, she does not know him,"

said her mother, In the voice of a moderator.


She soon can know him. Denys of Cote
is not a man gentlemen care to have in their
company," the judge said.

The fashion of locking daughters up was
gone by. Her grandfather said, let there be
no harshness, no precipitation. Delia had
used a cunning against himself capable of
defeating any guard that might be placed on
her. Let her hear now what the world at
large had to say of her lover : if that did
not sink in and work a cure, her case was
hopeless. The sacred name of love was not
taken on anybody's lips. No one believed
that love could be concerned in Delia's infatuation.


She was not required to give any promises.
There had been an Intention of appealing to
her sense of honour and duty, but that had

passed out of mind before her coldly obstinate
aspect.

The scene was not prolonged. Her father
signified that she might go. Her mother put
out a hand to touch her as she passed. Delia
never looked up, offered no excuse, pleaded
nothing in extenuation of her fault. She
took her dismissal passively, and went away
wondering whether she, poor soul, was alone
to blame. She shed some tears in pity for
herself. Then presently came her mother in
the hope to comfort and persuade. But for
that time it was of no avail. Delia would say
nothing, would answer nothing. She felt
weak and vulnerable, and sought refuse in
silence.

CHAPTER V.

MR. DENYS OF COTE.

Some men, like pictures, are titter for a corner than a full Hglit."

Seneca.

The House with Golden Gables was not like
itself after the disclosure of Miss Delia's
secret and hasty engagement. Nobody knew
what sunshine she had made there until this
cloud fell upon her, nor did she know how
much she had lived by love until she had to
endure coldness and averted looks.

Mr. Denys came to Auldcaster as he had
promised, and saw Delia in the presence of
the judge and her mother. She put herself
into his hands, and Mr. Denys claimed to

hold her bound. The judge said that her
marriage with him should never have his
consent. It was Delia herself who rejoined,
that she should be of age within the year,
and free to marry without it.

This rejoinder was the key-note of her
subsequent behaviour. After Mr. Denys' visit
she was open with her mother. She told her
everything. Everything was not so very
much. Her mother coloured when she was
shown the jewels, and said, that was a pity ;
but besides that there was nothing any of
them need have taken exception to had the
lover himself been unexceptionable. Her
Grandfather had conceived a hicrh india-nation
against Delia ; but even he allowed, that had
she played off her deceits for the sake of
some ardent vouno: fellow of her own ae,
he would have known how to forgive her.
It was skittish, sly tricks on behalf of

Mr. Denys of Cote that were beyond his
excusing.

Save the judge, they all privately referred
the disaster to Delia's disappointment about
James Herrick. The judge would not hear
it. He said, Jem was not to blame : Jem
had never touched her heart. He said that
nothing was to blame but her indulged pride,
which had shot up into a mad rivalry, and
was hurrying her towards endless repentance
for the sake of an imagined triumph. She
had set her mind on being a great lady and
very rich. She believed that riches would
buy many things that are not, in fact, to be
purchased with money ; and to get them, she
was ready to run into a marriage which everyone
who loved her agreed in reoardincr as

O CD O

a consummate degradation.

Delia was easier within herself when all
was told, but the tax on her fortitude was

very heavy. The assumption that she did
not care for Mr. Denys was general and
obtrusive.

'' Luxury and show you may get by your
sacrifice, but none of the joys that content
the heart," her mother pleaded with her.

It did not appear that Delia coveted those
joys. " I am not like Cousin Fan. The
foolish fondness that fill up the measure
of her happiness would be troublesome tome."


*you don't know what you say, Delia.
Some day your heart will ache for the simple
affection you make so light of now."

Delia sighed. Did she make light of simple
affection ? She thought not. Her mouth was
set, but not In scorn. Her grandmother, who
came of a stricter and sterner generation, did
not mince her speech in delicate remonstrance.
*' What most shocks me is your bad taste,"

cried she, her fine old face wrinkled with
anger and disgust. " IMr. Denys may have the
air of a gentleman, but he is such an ugly
fellow. He comes of a bad lot, and is saddled
with a bad inheritance. A curse goes with
Navestock. You may laugh, Delia, but never
a man who has had it has kept a son to
take his seat ! "

Delia said that she knew of the curse, but
she was not superstitious. The old lady
flushed at her manner, and bade her not be
disrespectful. Then Delia flushed, assuming
the air and tone of a woman of consequence,
with a right to her own opinion.

Cricket was very miserable in these days.
He got up in haste much curious information
about the successive owners of Navestock,
which, with the odd spite of a jealousy that is
not inconsistent with affection, he retailed to
his sister in the intention of vexing her as

thoroughly as she was vexing everybody
else.

Delia kept her temper, and retorted that a
man was not to be held responsible for the
bad deeds of his ancestors.

''He is not hanged for them, perhaps,"
Cricket admitted, with a pensive air of considering
whether it mioht not be safer for
society if he were.

You are unkind. Cricket, and very prejudiced
and silly."

I state historical facts, sister. And the
sins of the fathers are visited upon the children
to the third and fourth generation."

The third and fourth generation are
dead and gone. Mr. Denys is ever so far
removed from your heroes of the elder
branch."

'' The curse ooes with Navestock  the love
of money and the death of children."

Cricket, you are cruel, cruel ! "

'' If you do not believe me you can read it
in the old county history  and how Navestock
was got by Giles Denys of Cote in the time
of Old Noll. It is a very black old story,
indeed. I would not have it in our annals
for all the world."

Delia knew the black old story, but was
incredulous of its consequences. She expressed
her incredulity quite coolly, and said,
that if the misdeeds of his fathers were the
worst that could be brought up against Mr.
Denys she did not care.

I am not saying that they are the worst.
He has a reputation of his own, and there
is time enough for the family likeness to come
out very strong in him. It is easy for God
to make a poor man rich, and money covers
a multitude of sins. The world will have
a short memory for his now, but grandpa

can tell you what there is to be forgotten."


'' Don't, Cricket dear. Be you good to me,"
Delia whispered entreatingly, kneeling by his
chair, and laying her face against his face, asher
loving way was to soothe him when he
suffered.

After that Cricket had mercy on her, understanding,
in part, her pain.

Her grandmother was her most persevering
adversary. Towards her mother Delia continued
always mild and persuasive, but her
grandmother encountered in the girl a spirit
as Intrepid as her own.

First Impressions go for much. In the
beginning when Mr. Denys was Introduced to
her, she saw him in company where he was
courted, and well liked enough. She had
found in him no defect of manliness, and If she
had spoken out her motives, so far as she knew

them, she might have said that she was grateful
to him. She did say so to her mother
a Httle later, in reply to one of her frequent
tender appeals.

I am very grateful to Mr. Denys. I am
sure that he loves me."

And don't we love you ? " her mother
rejoined with pathetic reproach In her
voice.

There had not been much show of It since
Mr. Denys' visit to Auldcaster, and Delia
implied a doubt by her silence. The judge
was distant and reserved in manner, and did
not talk to her or make her his companion
as he used to do. The like constraint was
visible In her father, and even affected her
elder brother. She felt it In every vein of her
heart, but it did not relax her resolution. Nor
did she resent it. Apart from the cause, It was
readily admitted that she bore herself with

sufficient dignity In treating the present difficulty
as an evil that might, perhaps, by time
and patient steadfastness be overcome.

She had to be very wary of undermining and
surprises. Her grandmother recommended to
her perusal a neat duodecimo In white and
gold (a present to herself In her young ladyhood),
containing " Letters on the Improvement
of the Mind," by Mrs. Capons, and ''A
Father's Legacy to his Daughters," by Dr.
Gregory of Edinburgh. Delia found there
more besides the precepts of filial obedience
which were specially directed to her address by
silken strings between the leaves, and being
inquired of by-and-by whether she had yet
given herself to the study of the book, she was
prepared with her answer.

'eyes, grana, I have," she said seriously.
"It is a little book full of sound counsel.
Some of it is too late, but I have discovered

a few wise and beautiful sentences that miorht
have been written for me. This, for instance :
As Nature has not orlven us that unlimited

o

range in our choice which men enjoy, she has
therefore assigned to us greater flexibility of

taste.

The elder lady perceived with chagrin that
her moral armoury had furnished weapons to
serve aoalnst herself.

Delia proceeded : '' I take it that England
and Scotland are one on this subject, grana ?
because Dr. Gregory says that In his country,
without an unusual share of natural sensibility
and very peculiar good fortune, a woman has
very little probability of marrying for love.
He thinks that what is called love amongst us
is rather gratitude, and a partiality to the man
who prefers us to the rest of our sex. I am
convinced that he is riorht. It must have
been that partiality which invaded me when I

was singled out by Mr. Denys as the young
lady who would suit him best'; for everybody
else calls him so very ugly, and I cannot
see it."

Lady Daventry was vastly disconcerted.
Delia grew bolder with a sense of triumph :
The old Scotch doctor says further, that if
crosses and difficulties are put in the way,
this gratitude is likely to rise into a preference
which, with suspense, may advance at last to
a degree of attachment that is very near to
love "

With great irritation her grandmother br-ke
in : " Delude yourself, Delia, with whatever
pleas and pretences you can invent, but the
true sum of the matter is that you are willing
to marry for money. That was what she did "
with a fierce gesture of reprobation towards
the glowing portrait of the French Madam.
She sold her beauty to be rich  and in a

year what befell her beauty ? You know 
and how she lived after : blinded, neglected,
the most despised and pitiable of women."

Delia looked white and sick, but made her
rejoinder firmly : '' Grana, mine will not bea
mere mercenary marriage such as hers was.
Mr. Denys is in every way a fit match forme
if I think so. Had he not been rich he
would never have addressed me. And had
grandpa been civil, he was intending to go
about his courtship in the old-fashioned way
of laying his proposals first before my parents,
when they could have raised what objections
and asked what explanations they pleased. I
am not to blame for all that has passed which
you disapprove."

Then Delia retreated, and left her grandmother
with something new to reflect upon.

Reflection did not, however, induce Lady
Daventry to change her tactics. She believed

VOL. I. F

herself strong In good reasons for interrupting
the engagement, and was ready to do it at all
hazards. She returned to the charge again
and again. She kept no terms with the girl,
and once availed herself of an opportunity
against her which Delia could never quite
forgive.

Lady Herrick had a married daughter residing
in the neighbourhood of Cote, and Lady
Daventry inquired of her, as by the way, in
Delia's presence, whether Mr. Denys was in
better odour there than formerly.

Lady Herrick smiled, and answered crisply :
''He has always the same autocratic temper
and high sense of his prerogative which
brought him into collision with the judge
when he was a young man. Sir John
still tells the story of that famous cause,
and talks of what a good Grecian Daventr}'
was.

'What was that famous cause . " DeHa
asked with an air of quiet interest.

It was a small matter involving a great
principle which Mr. Denys had despised. It
is too long to tell you the particulars, but the
judge had to state the law in Mr. Denys'
favour, and the pith of the story is, that having
done that, he came down upon him with a
fine quotation from a speech of Pericles, to
this effect : that while hearkening to the constituted
authorities and the laws, Mr. Denys
appeared to have but a dull perception of
those other laws which, though never formally
enacted, all men hold it shame to
violate."

'' Mr. Denys was not in court unfortunately,
and he missed it," Lady Daventry said.

Delia blushed and quivered to her fingertips
: '' It was very severe. And was it quite
deserved ? " she asked keenly.

It was thought to be deserved," Lady
Herrick answered, struck by the marked
intonation of the question. She paused an
instant, considering it, and no one else taking
up the word, she added : " Mr. Denys has the
character of being a hard and mean man, but
people are Indulgent to his foibles, and have
ceased to expect from him better than he
knows. He is a great prize in the matrimonial
lottery since his accession to Navestock, but
the she must be quick indeed, who means to
make sure of such a slippery, changeable
lover."

Lady Daventry looked at her granddaughter
with a directness that could not fail
to y Lady Herrick's notice. Delia looked
at her again with a pale defiance that said
as plainly as if she had spoken, that she was
not afraid. The visitor understood that covert
feelings were at work here, and to further

inquiries she replied with management. Delia
gathered up some of her words.

"Whatever faults Mr. Denys has  and it is
not to be denied that he has many and great
faults  he is good to his own. I have never
heard any one say otherwise of him than that
he \NdJ good to his oiun

Delia brightened, and said that she valued
the homely virtues. Then she blushed.
Then she laughed Outright. This was telling
the whole story.

Lady Herrick asked no questions, but said
kindly : '' You are reasonable, Delia. The
homely virtues most affect the happiness of
women ; " and she kissed the girl.

Lady Herrick was one of those who
believed that Delia had loved her son James,
and her first thought on this disclosure of her
ambitious match was that she had rushed Into
it to conceal or quell the sting of her disappointment.

She wished her well and very-well,
and was sorry that she had said what
she had said. But Delia accepted her kiss
cordially, and with it was given to her the
heart of a true friend.

CHAPTER VI

A WRAITH.

The finding out of trouble is a wearisome labour of the nihil."

ir/csias/cus.

After the conversation with Lady Herrick,
Miss Daventry's engagement to Mr. Denys
of Cote could not any longer be kept a secret
from the intimate friends of the family. It
was a wonder and surprise to nearly all. The
Daventrys had been very strict in their
marriages, and the Denyses had been a race
peculiarly unfortunate. Nevertheless, some
people said that the young lady had done
remarkably well for herself.

The judge declared his own prejudice

invincible, and refused Mr. Denys any access
to the society of his grand-daughter at the
House with Golden Gables. But he was
seen in Auldcaster from time to time, and
Delia did not conceal that she met him. More
than once she communicated to Cricket passages
of their conversation which interested

o

the boy : 

The ancestor from whom Mr. Denys
inherited his title to Cote was a half-brother
of the unredeemed villain who brought
Navestock into the family. His name was
Hugh. He had married the daughter and
heiress of a man of Kent, and his name and
the land he got with her  no great deal of
it  had been handed down from father to
son without a break to the present day : 

Acklam, in the parish of Sevenoaks.
You shall see it, Cricket," his sister promised.
" The eldest son always had a public-school

education, and stuck to the land. The
others followed commerce. There have been
Denyses aldermen of London  most respectable
people."

Cricket went to work to investigate these
respectable people, and Delia borrowed for
him from Acklam a fine old history of the
crjnty of Kent, which told him what pretensions
the Kentish Denyses had to rank
amongst the county worthies. Their pretensions
were small, but they seemed to have had
regard to their name ; for though not shining
with glorious deeds, their record was fair
and honourable. Cricket found it somewhat
dull. The deeds of these good men were
burled with their bones. A half-timbered
house no better than a grange, a few fields,
and a few old stones in the churchyard, were
all that Mr. Denys of Cote was born to, and
all he had in prospect until he had done with

school. It was open to any one who desired
to believe the best of him to say, that, bred
to narrow fortunes, he had learned narrow
ways, and had never been able to get out
of them.

And why had he not been able to get out
of them ?

There were circumstances  extenuating or
not, as men chose to treat them. Their
aspects were various, according to the point
of view. As yet Delia knew nothing of these
circumstances, but it was necessary that she
should be informed, and her grandmother
found the occasion on a day when she seemed
in better cheer than usual. She had walked
a mile on the road to Beauminster to meet Mr.
Denys, who was at Navestock on affairs of
business,*and being asked if she was in good
spirits because she had seen her lover, she
confessed frankly that so it was.

I am sorry for you, Delia, building your
castles in the air still. You are looklno to
Mr. Denys to give you a great place in the
world  let me tell you, that is not in his
power. He has never even taken his place
amongst his equals. Since his mother's death
he has lived in the country, where everything
is known, in open defiance of social order."

"What do you mean, grana  in open
defiance of social order ? " Delia asked. She
had become very pale, and shook from head
to foot.

'* There is only one thing that I can mean.
You are not a child  you are old enough to
understand. Mr. Denys has made his home
for years with a lady who is not his wife, and
he has sons, half-grown young men."

Delia was not a child, nor were her feelings
any longer childlike. She got up and went
out of the room, supporting herself by the

wall as she went, and began to climb the great
staircase. The window was open on the landing
over the door towards the street, and Mr.
Denys' black horse that he had ridden in the
morning was being led up and down in front
of the White Hart. Mr. Denys himself came
out of the inn at that instant, and caught sight
of Delia's face at the window. She made him
a sign, and stopped there while he crossed to
the house.

The judge In his study heard Mr. Denys'
foot at the door and his strong peremptory
voice saying : " There is a lady here who
wishes to speak with me. I will step through
into the garden."

Delia came trembling down the stairs aoaln,
and went to meet him on the lawn.

*' I have something to say to you," were
her words, faint as a sigh almost, looking up
in his eyes with a death-like solemnity.

What more she said, or how, neither could
well remember afterwards, but Mr. Denys
understood her to be adjuring him to tell
her the truth, If there was anything in his
life concealed that It would kill her kindness
to discover when no door of repentance
or escape was left her.

He answered her emphatically that there
was not  and listened breathless for what
was to come next.

Delia with passionate intensity went on :
Because I should die of shame to supplant in
her lifetime a woman who is the mother of
your children. She Is your wife though you
were not married in church."

*' I wish I had told you the story myself.
She is dead, Delia : I lost her three years
ago. You call her my wife, and so she
was. She was a qood and lovlncr woman.
Some day I will talk to you about her "

Mr. Denys was as powerfully stirred as
Delia herself. Her eyes filled. She was
sorry if she had hurt him. He saw it, and
was quick to reassure her.

*' For what you have said, I honour you the
more. It is not your fault that you were
misled. But you must believe me when I tell
you that the lady you have heard of was everything
to me that a true wife could be. She
never had a rival while she lived. Even you
can be no more than second to her "

There was little need to say that. While he
was speaking Delia felt by the vibration of his
voice that Mr. Denys did not care for her ashe
had cared for his love whom he had loved
when he was young. The interview thrilled
them both with pain, but they parted friends.
And the next day Mr. Denys wrote to her.
There are two ways of telling most stories.
He chose the right way  the shortest and

plainest. There was something for Delia to
read between the lines. She read it fairly, and
was bereaved in the process of many fine,
delusive fancies. But her mind was fixed.
She had lost her ideal of a perfect life, and of
this real life that was substituted for it she was
purposed to make the best. She showed Mr.
Denys that she trusted him, and in due time
he gave his proofs that she had not trusted
him for nothing

her grandmother she said not a word 
her grandmother had used her disingenuously
but to her mother she recited all she knew
of the lady whom she chose to describe as
Mr. Denys wife, not married in church. Her
mother listened with a red flush on her cheek,
which confessed to a sense of humiliating,
patient pain.

Don't speak till I have done, mamma. I
will use ]mr. Denys' own words. He insists

Upon It that their marriage was good, because
they broke no law of God, and they were faithful
each to the other until death parted them.
She was a Greek by birth. They were very
young and much thrown together, and they
had a passionate attachment. His mother was
urgent with him to make a different connection
because of Cote looming in sight, and the
young lady was sent out of his way. He
sought her, and she found him. If either
sinned, both sinned  he says the sacrament
of marriage lies not in rites but in consent.
When he came to his kingdom and came
home again, they had two sons. Any day he
would have ozone to church with her, but she
would not. She was warned of the curse of
Navestock, which already he was contending
for, and she said, ' Let me keep my children ;'
and when he reasoned with her she still
refused, on the plea that she loved her firstborn

best, and no younger son should come
before him In any right they had. And in this
she persevered. They paid their penalty, of
course, and perhaps her share of it was not the
heaviest. She had her children, and she had
him, all she cared for most, and she had her
house and garden, and friends of her own
people. She was a sweet and happy-tempered
woman of great energy and cultivated talents
a companion with whom he would have
been contented to grow old. Yes, mamma, he
has told me so. All this is true. Mistress
Pride has had a great fall. Nothing, I think,
will ever set her up again."

The tears were running down her mother's
face when Delia ceased. It was her voice set
them flowing, the emotion of it, strongly controlled.


'' And now, mamma, I think I ought to be
let alone, and to suffer no more persecution on

VOL. I. G

account of Mr. Denys. Say it shall be so,"
she entreated.

'' For myself I promise, Delia. I cannot
undertake for the rest," her mother said. 'rit
is cruelly mortifying to us all  but if this man
has elicited your sympathy, I know that to try
to turn you is vain."

'' I shall never be turned, mamma. If that
is the best you can say, let us make an end of
talking about it."

CHAPTER VII.

A ROUGH WOOING.

Reputation oft got without merit, and lost without deserving."

Shakspeare.

This serious remonstrance of Delia addressed
to her mother did not fail entirely of its desired
effect. She had another advocate near home
in the rector, who called the judge's resentment
exaggerated, and advised more lenient treatment
for the young lady. The judge maintained
his right to exclude Mr. Denys from his
house, and to withhold his consent to his
grand-daughter's engagement ; but, by degrees,
Delia was permitted to see that though her
marriage with Mr. Denys might not have the

cordial acquiescence of any of her family, yet
it was not a marriage that would justify them
in cutting her off from their kindness ; and her
mother, at length, told her that though she
must not expect a wedding such as was preparing
for her cousin Fan, neither need she
fear being sent away from home like a
daughter who had offended. Delia's pride and
hopes of glory were now so far subdued that
this concession satisfied her.

Before that wedding was celebrated ito



became news for the whole county that Mr.
Denys of Cote was a suitor for the hand of the
beautiful grand-daughter of Judge Daventry,
and that it was sure to be a match ; for though
her family disliked the connection, the young
lady herself was not discouraging. The news-mongers
of Auldcaster pondered whether, in
these conflicting circumstances, Mr. Denys
would be present amongst the guests at the

marriage of Mr. James Herrick and the
rectors eldest daughter. The propriety of
inviting him was debated in a family council,
but firmly negatived by the judge, on the plea
that twice before there had been a slip between
the cup and the lip of a lady Mr. Denys had
made conspicuous by his notice, and that the
same thing might happen again. Her grandmother,
who spared Delia no pain that she
thought it salutary to inflict, told her of the
council and its conclusion.

Delia with a curl of her delicate lip said
quietly : " Mr. Denys has no wish to go where
he is not welcome. About those ladies whom
grandpa says he made conspicuous by his
notice, I should have expected grandpa to
inquire before speaking. There may have
been ladies willing to deliver Mr. Denys from
social ostracism, but I am (quite sure he never
asked them."

The marriage from the rectory took place
on a morning in October, a fine hunting morning
with a southerly wind and a cloudy sky,
when, if Mr. James Herrick had not been
going to be married, he would certainly have
been out with the hunt. The hounds were to
throw off at eleven o'clock at Wormwood, about
a mile to the north of the town, and it happened
that just as the bride's procession was
starting to cross the road from the garden-door
to the church that several gentlemen came at
full trot up Rood Hill on their way to the
meet.

Denys of Cote and his two sons," Sir
John Herrick whispered to the bride's mother
as the three rode by, the last of the cavalcade.


The boys were attracted by the vision of
beauty, and wheeled about to see. Their
father pulled up a little farther on, and Delia

amongst the bridesmaids looklnor that wav
gave him a surprised bright sign of recognition,
then a little wave of the hand, most graceful,
which he acknowledged with a sweeping
bow. The boys copied their father, and when
the fair ladies had vanished into the gloom
of the church they galloped forward, the
clattering of their horses' hoofs on the paved
road ringing and echoing from a long way
off.

Delia had a soft blush on her cheek and a
wavering smile on her mouth all through the
ceremony. She was composedly happy to the
end of the day, and to her mother her
demeanour was especially gratifying. She had
not witnessed the episode at going into church,
nor had it been reported to her yet ; but they
all heard of it later, and her grandmother
expressed great disgust.

Sir John herrick, who had seen It, said to

his wife afterwards : " There are worse fellows
than Denys of Cote. Never tell me again
that Miss Delia does not care for him."

She cares for him quite enough. I am
very glad of it," said Lady Herrick.

The newly-married pair went upon the
Continent for a few weeks, and were welcomed
home to Knowle shortly before Christmas.
The season was kept up with great festivity
on their behalf all round the neighbourhood.
Mr. Denys of Cote was not of that society,
but bv a little effort he might have been
included in it. Nobody, however, chose to
make the effort. Miss Daventry went everywhere,
and was much observed, much admired.
Probably she was envied now and again. But
she had a difficult part to play. That her
enoraorement was still without the consent of
her family was evident, because Mr. Denys
was never to be seen at any of their houses.

People speculated how he liked It, and why
he put up with it. He did not like it at all,
but he was a man who could reserve his
feelings, and he put up with it for his love's
sake. Delia had endeared herself to him ina
way and degree that she did not yet know
of. He was perfectly thoughtful and considerate
for her. It was her sweet look of
goodness that had charmed him, and this
goodness rang true. When he saw her
grieve, he was sorely tempted to try a rescue,
but she had it so much at heart to leave all
friends at home that he dared not vex her
with a word.

How keenly Delia felt the position of Mr.
Denys she betrayed by a request that she
preferred at this time to her cousin Fan.
Fanny made much of Delia, and invited her
to Knowle amongst the earliest of the (guests
who came to stay.

I want you to do me a kindness, Fan 
ask Mr. Denys to dine at Knowle while
I am here. James knows him," she said,
blushing warmly in her earnestness to have
what she asked granted.

Fanny was struck with consternation.
*' James knows him in a manner, but he
cannot bear him. I should not like to
propose having him here. Oh, poor
Delia! Why did you despair of yourself
so soon ? If you could have had patience,
somebody as good as James would have
wanted you before long. None of us
can ever feel friends with Mr. Denys of
Cote." Fanny's pleading was certainly not
judicious.

Hot tears rushed to Delia's eyes : " You
are all determined that he shall be the only
friend I have," she said with passionate force.
I am sorry that I mentioned it  but I

will never ask you to do me a favour
again 1 "

Fanny mingled her tears with Deliass,
but Mr. Denys was not Invited to dine at
Knowle.

The remaining months that Intervened before
Delia came of ao-e llno-ered alone under
clouds of alienation and discomfort. There
was for her none of the sweet spring courting-time,
such as makes beautiful most young
lives with a green pleasant place for memory
to go back and rest upon in dull and arid
after-weather. Mr. Denys never saw her
under a roof all this long while, and saw her
but seldom anywhere. But their correspondence
was unremitting and it became clear as
the summer advanced that she had an understanding
with him to end her ordeal at home
with her first day of liberty. Her father

had remained neutral, hoping, and perhaps
expecting, a silent change ; but when her
mother convinced him that the thine was
inevitable, he agreed that it had better be
done decently and in order, and she was
bidden to bring her to London to buy new
clothes.

Delia was glad to go to London, but she
told her mother that she should want no
wedding-dress. " Only a travelling-dress,
mamma. Mr. Denys will not enter this
house. He will take me away straight from
the church-door." She spoke in a low,
strained voice, smiling with tremulous lips,
and looking full in her mother's face.

Oh, my love, how sad it is ! What a pity
that you should leave us so. It is fit to break
my heart ! "

Deliass eyes began to shine. "It shall bea
white dress, mother, because I am young,

you know. And though we are not to
have a show, people will come to see me
married."

When the judge was informed of the arrangements
for the marriage, he was relieved,
and Delia's grandmother said austerely that
so it would be best : it would be inconsistent
to affect rejoicing for an event that they
deplored.

Then to Delia she said in her cutting tone :
Had I been in your shoes, my dear, I would
have made it easier for everybody by playing
the heroine, and running away with Mr.
Denys."

I would  only then it would have made
it harder for me ever to come home acrain,"
was Delia's rejoinder in a half-whisper to
herself.

The judge heard it, and was struck by
signs of mental sufferings" in her that had

crept on so gradually as to have escaped
them all. Their eyes met, and hers were
full. Such weakness in Delia was strangle
to him.

I am weary with crying," she said, wiping
her tears, " and I wish it were over. You
have not been very kind to me, grana,
but I don't want to say anything that it
may hurt you to remember when I am
gone."

The judge was touched and perplexed.
Could It be that her affections, hunted away
from home, had found a refuge and rest in
this man whom they all contemned  but
who had the character of being -ood to his
own ?

Another inconsistency offered Itself for
solution.

Lady Herrick had said that Mr. Denys
bore the reputation of a very mean man ; yet

the best gentleman in the county could not
have behaved more generously in the matter
of marriage-settlements than Mr. Denys behaved
to the poor young lady he had chosen
for his wife. And he reposed in her, besides,
a trust and confidence which gratified her
with a new sense of honour after the contumely
she had undergone.

At the last there was regret amongst her
friends that they had not made better of it for
her dear sake. For they loved her  they all
loved her, even her grandmother, who was
so angry and so bitter.

It was dreadful to Cricket to watch his
sister going about gathering up her small
property in old birthday gifts and Christmas
books, and to think that tomorrow she would
be gone  gone clean out of sight, never to beat
his beck and call any more. Her tears fell
constantly, and she avoided every face. It

was no use saying now that they had forgiven
her, and they would try to hope  to hope that
God would bless her, and she might be happy.
She could anticipate nothing but the tragedy
of her near departure, and all the loss that it
involved. There were no busy, lively preparations
to divert her thoughts. Mr. Denys
had arrived at the White Hart just across
the street, and no one wanted him but
her.

In the afternoon Grace and Emmeline came
from the rectory to see if they could do
anything for her. They could not, but they
kissed her often, by way of being comfortable.
Delia found it very hard to bear  so hard that
it wrung a cry from her.

'' It is like a bad dream. I never could
have believed my life would turn so ill ; " and
then she quite broke down.

Grace asked presently who was going with

her  on her wedding journey  to wait upon
her.

Phoebe' DeHa said, recovering herself with
a sad sort of mirth  " droll little Phoebe !
Gran mamma calls her a queer little body to be
own woman to a young married lady,, but I
am very fond of Phoebe. She has been with
me ever since Abby was sent away, and I can
talk to her about all of you here at home.
Cote is her country too; she will be going back
to her own people." Delia did not show herself
in the drawing-room aoain after her outburst
of natural sorrow. That exhausted her.

She has shut herself up from us," her
mother said, late in the night, when all but
the heads of the house had separated.

'' Everything is ready for the morning ? "
the judge asked.

Yes, everything. We are to be at the
church by a quarter to ten."

VOL. I. IT

Go upstairs last. When we have shut our
doors, perhaps, she will call you."

And Delia did call her mother. She was
listening for her footstep down the little
passage that led to her room.

I want to talk to you, mamma. I have
been waiting  I thought you were never
coming. One has but one mother, and
there is nothing like her," she said with a
tenderness that was very sweet to remember
afterwards.

So you have found that out, Delia. Late
in the day, dear, late in the day."

Her clothes to be married in were laid out,
white upon white like snow upon snow.
Delia made her mother admire them, standing
with her hand-in-hand. They were very
pretty, as bride-clothes are always, be the
bride glad or sad.

"You have a great deal to go through tomorrow,

Delia," her mother said, looking from
them in her face anxiously.

Yes, mamma. More and worse than it
need have been. But there'll be no tears.
I have done with crying.'

I wish, my love, that it may be so."

"It mist be so. I have some one else to
think of now. So this I say  I cannot bid
grandpa good-bye in the morning. I shall
be gone out of the house quite early  and
that is why." Deliass voice was painfully
eager ; her grasp on her mother's hand made
her almost cry out.

Do you feel it like that, my poor child }
Oh, I am sorry."

'* He used to be so good to me, mamma. I
think I loved him more than you all. I have
grieved and disappointed him beyond everything,
and I cannot bear the sight of his cold
displeasure. I must go  let me go in peace."

''My darling, you shall go in peace. He
has not ceased to love you."

Then let me bid him good-bye to-night."

The judge had wandered down to the study
again, restless as Delia's self, to stay for her
mother's report. He came to her, and they
had a few words. He began by saying that
her marriage was too near now to make
counsel available for anything but her duty to
the partner In whose company she was going
to walk through life.

At this point Delia with spirit spoke out :
He shall teach me that himself, gran'papa.
Mr. Denys has, perhaps, more virtues than you
give him credit for. If I have been good at
all since I turned rebel, it is owing to his
forbearance. We both should have been
happier had submission to you been compatible
with loyalty to each other." *

The judge said drily that he was glad to

hear it  he was certainly surprised. And in
this humour their parting was effected, and
proved less distressing than it might otherwise
have done.

Mr. Denys has given you reason to believe
that he respects me, gran'papa, has he not ? "
Delia said further.

'' Yes, Delia, he has, indeed."

And, gran'papa, I respect him too. I
believe you have done him injustice. All I
have seen of him, and know of him from himself,
has my approval." Delia's face burned.
She was conscious that her praise was
moderate, but it was sincere, and she was
pleased to be able to utter it.

The judge said no more, but he gave her
his blessing. And she went, and kissed her
grandmother.

When Delia was alone again with her
mother, she said in a tone of appeal : " Now,

mamma, I want a little cheering with good
prophecies. Tell me truly  did you care for
papa the day you were married as much as
you cared for him the day Walter was born 
or as you care for him now ? "

*' First and last, my dear, I loved your
father with my whole heart. Ours was a
love-match."

Delia sighed. " Then, mother, let us have
done. There's no comparison. You had
better luck than your poor daughter. It was
not written that I should make a love-match.
But such as mine is, I will try to live so that
some day we may thank God for it."

CHAPTER VIII.

HER Wedding-day.

** The end is, to have two made one
In will and in affection."

Ben Jonson.

AuLDCASTER woke Up on the morning of the
wedding without any of the jubilant sensations
that ought to have attended a wedding from
the House with Golden Gables. It was an
August morning, and a sultry gloom overspread
the sky, causing people to observe
that there was thunder in the air, and the
storm would come before nicrht.

Mr. Denys had taken up his quarters at
the White Hart, with a new travelling carriage,
a pair of fine bay horses, and his own

servants. He had no friend with him; for
there were to be no festivities. None of
the neighbours, small or great, were invited
to rejoice at the marriage. Nevertheless,
the townsfolk came out into the streets,
mustered up Rood Hill, and crowded into
the church.

There was much curiosity to see the
bridegroom amongst such as did not know

o o

him, and some disappointment that he was
not more remarkable when seen. He was
in the church ten minutes before the arrival
of the bride, and sustained the scrutiny of
the congregation without flinching The
majority were of Miss Delia's opinion  that
he was not so very ugly. He stood a little
over the middle height, and was solidly
built  a robust and powerful figure of a
man, forty-five years old, or thereabouts,
naturally fair, but tanned to the colour of

a nut-brown berry. His light hair was
thick, Hke thatch, upon his head, which was
large, square, and well set on his shoulders.
His clean-cut lips closed with a firm pressure,
and he had the blue eyes of his race 
eyes extraordinarily bold and lively, which
looked thunder when he was angry, but were
mild to-day as became the occasion. His
countenance was cheerful, expressive of a
heart in prosperity ; and one of the spectators
 the old country doctor who had
known Miss Delia from her birth, and was
very fond of her  gave it for his opinion,
that she might have made a worse choice,
a deal worse choice, and have gone away
with flying colours.

There were no flying colours for her
to-day. It was a dull wedding. The bride
came attended only by her father and mother,
two of her brothers, and the two girls from

the rectory. She was simply apparelled ina
dress of white poplin, and a broad-leaved
hat, turned up at one side, with a long
feather. Her blushing soft grace of manner
was very beautiful, and Mr. Denys gave
great popular satisfaction by his visible pride
and delight in her. The rector read the
whole of the service, and a pin might have
been heard to drop in the solemn rests
and pauses of his voice. The responses
were made by both as if they meant what
they said, and before the ceremony was over
many persons had wondered in whispers why
the judge was so set against the marriage ;
for the pair seemed not unequally yoked.

They were to start from the church door,
and as they walked down the aisle together,
it was noticed that the bride betrayed none
of the tearful trepidation of a girl leaving
her home for the strange house of a husband.

She had enough to weep for, if weeping
would have availed her, but as she had told
her mother, she must think now of some one
else. And it was her compensation for their
want of welcome to let the world see that
she went to him with joy.

As soon as they were seated in the carriage,
driving away on the road to Beauminster,
Mr. Denys said : " You have behaved
capitally, Delia, and I thank you "  his first
words outside the church, made more emphatic
by his first kiss.

Delia drew a lone breath of gladness that
the strain was over. " I have heard that you
are always good to your own  and you will
be good to me, will you not ? " she said ina
voice of confident appeal.

I will be as good to you as I know how 
so help me God," Mr. Denys answered with
a glow of sincerity.

He felt and she felt at that moment very
strongly that the hands which had been her
defence had quite left hold of her. But he
believed that she loved him best ; and It is
certain that she never gave any one the
right to doubt it after that day.

The sweet clamour of the bells, the famous
bells of Auldcaster, followed them far on the
road. At three miles from the town, half-way
up a long hill where it made a sharp curve, the
carriage rested to breathe the horses. Delia
wished to feet out and walk a little, and take a
last look of the valley. Mr. Denys gave her
his arm, and they walked very gently to the
top of the hill. Here they met a sturdy old
woman with a brace of market-baskets going
down to Auldcaster. She had carried butter
and errors to the House with Golden Gables
for fifty years, and at the sight of Miss Delia,
all in her white array, she dropt a curtsy, and

spoke with the kindly, respectful interest of an
old servant of the family.

'god bless you, Miss Delia! You was
married this morning ? " said she.

Yes, Mrs. Jesse, and this is my husband.
Tell them at home that you saw us," said the
lady, and Mr. Denys lifted his hat.

It was something for Mrs. Jesse to tell.

The judge and his wife were still in the
garden, where they had waited while the
wedding-party were in church. The others
had come back to them there when the bride
was gone, and they had stayed all together
under the cedars in the scented warm air, some
talking about It, some silent, hearing the rush
of the bells, and hearing nothing else.

Mrs. Jesse delivered her message.

And sister was not crying ? " Cricket
earnestly inquired. He had been crying, poor
child.

Crying ! bless you, dear, no ! What should
she cry for ? ' This is my husband,' says she ;
tell them at home that you saw us ; ' and the
gentleman laughs, and takes off his hat, as
proud and pleased as could be." Mrs. Jesse
judged rightly that Miss Delia's words would
bear repeating, and that her story was best
told just as it happened.

Delia's mother was comforted.

Cricket said : " Give me my book. I wish
she had gone with a bit of glory. I think she
deserved it."

And she was all the sister we had," said
Walter.

The young people had not spoken or interfered
before. It had seemed towards the end
too serious and tragical for them to touch.
But there was a curt finality in the scene
coming out of church that had shocked them.

Whose fault was it .' " Walter said again.

'' Her own fault," said her grandmother
sternly, but there were tears in her eyes.

The judge and her father got up and walked
away together, and Cricket opened his book
to read.

She is gone. We have lost her," he said,
turning the leaves to and fro, with absent mind
forgetting his place.

Not lost her. Cricket. She will come
and see us  often, often, we hope," his mother
whispered.

'will he let her come ? " Cricket whispered
back.

That was a question that had not occurred
to any of them, nor to Delia herself. And only
time could answer it.

THE BRIDE'S PROGRESS.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

HER NEW HOME.

Now came still evening on, and twilight grey j
Had in her sober livery all things clad.
Silence accompanied  for beast and bird,
They to their grassy couch, these to their nests,
Were slunk  all but the wakeful nightingale ;
She all night long her amorous descant sung.
Silence was pleased. Now glowed the firmament
With living sapphires. Hesperus, that led
The starry host, rode brightest, till the moon,
Rising in clouded majesty, at length
Apparent queen, unveiled her peerless light,
And o'er the dark her silver mantle threw."

Milton.

Mr. Denys proposed to carry his bride through
to Cote all in the day. He hoped that she
would love it the better for beincr able to date
her bringing home from her wedding-day.
His own mother had often so talked of her
bringing home to Acklam by his father, and

Mr. Denys had no standard for good wives
higher than his mother.

They made three stages of the journey, and
accomplished it easily before the sun went
down. They had left the storm behind hours
aofo. The thunder-clouds that huno over
Auldcaster in the morning pursued them across
the hills with salvoes and flying showers till
past noon, and then rolled off In faint reverberations
to the north. Their faces were set
to the sea and westward, and it was the time
of evening when shadows lengthen, and the
reapers in the cornfields begin to look tired
for nightfall and rest, that they came in sight
of home.

There was no noise of bells to welcome
them. Cote Church was an edifice of vast
antiquity that had only one bell to ring the
living to prayers, and the dead to burial. It
stood upon a green ' mound, girt with a low

wall and screened by trees, close to the gate
of the Manor House. This was a great square
house with a waggon roof and low, thick
chimney-stacks, plainly built of the stone
native to the country. The windows were
shaded by luxuriant vines, out of which hung
clusters of pale roses and tendrils of jessamine.
A wide expanse of lawn lay in front, and
beyond that, looking from the gate, were
glimpses of a garden through archways in
clipped hedges of yew, where splashes of vivid
colour glowed against the intense gloom of
green. It was a quiet picture in the warm,
low light, and beautiful to remember.

Just before the carriage turned in at the gate
a gentleman came by, with a serious, mild face,
bowed, and went on.

Mr. Clarges, the rector," Mr. Denys
said, and the next minute they were at the
door.

They were old servants who were on the
watch, waiting for the arrival of their master
and his bride, and, as old servants, were likely
to be hard to please. But their master looked
in rare good-humour, and as the young lady
appeared both gracious and handsome, they
said, one and all, that she would do.

It was a very simple reception. Mr. Denys
made the necessary presentations.

This is Mrs. Brice, Delia, my mother's
maid, and my housekeeper at Acklam since; "
and Mrs. Brice curtseyed.

And this is Knapp  my man, ever since
I have had a man. We shall be ready for
dinner in half-an-hour, Knapp," Mr. Denys
said again in a comfortable, matter-of-fact way ;
and then he conducted his bride up the fine
staircase, not unlike the staircase at the
House with Golden Gables, and committed
her to his mother's maid to be adorned

for the meal for which he was in such a
hurry.

Phoebe came anxiously after in her bonnet
and travelling gear, but was forthwith dismissed.
*' You may leave me to Mrs. Brice,
Phoebe, and go and be taken care of yourself,"
her mistress said, and Phoebe went.

Mrs. Brice's countenance recommended her
as a servant to be made a friend of.

Delia had got an impression at the instant
of entering the house that it had been swept
and garnished with the utmost pains and
thoughtfulness to please her. It was an old
house, and of itself perhaps not beautiful, but
things had been done to drive it race and
pleasantness. It was airy and fresh and
sweet. There were flowers everywhere, and
abundant lioht from sconces fixed against the
dark wainscoted walls. The old fashions had
not been abolished, but only adapted to newer

needs, and the finished effect was rich and
full of repose.

After they had dined  and that ceremony
was not suffered to be formally tedious  Mr.
Denys invited Delia to come to her drawing-room,
and see what he had done for her there.
Evidently he thought that he had done
wonders, and was impatient to display them.
And indeed she would have shown herself ill
to please had she not been touched with
admiration for the beauty and glory that were
revealed as they went in. It was a room some
forty feet long, and wide and high in proportion,
at the farther end of which had been
thrown out an immense bay-window, that set
as in a picture-frame a prospect of fields and
woods, with the moon rising over the sea  the
August moon, red as red gold, and barred
with purple cloud, till it mounted into high
heaven and hung there like a silver shield.

Delia was moved and silent, and Mr. Denys
stood watching her for some reward.

Now I think you must feel at home.
Is it as pretty as the window that I have
heard of looking into the cedars ? " he
said.

That is only an enclosed garden-view.
This is far lovelier. I have seen nothing to
compare with this. I have not often seen
the sea, and never with the moon and stars
shining in such a sky."

*' Then thank me for it. Call me by my
name. I made this window just to gladden
your eyes. Because I want you to be happy,
and to believe that I love you ; for indeed
I do."

Delia thanked him with a sweet dignity.
*' We are strangers yet. Your name does
not come to my tongue trippingly," she
said.

J

We shall be better acquainted. Everything
comes in time to those who know how
to wait."

Mr. Denys knew how to wait. He had
learnt some useful lessons during that year
which had been to Delia so dreary an ordeal,
and in the result both were likely to be the
wiser for it.

The bride's window looked down into the
garden, which was visible in the distance from
the gate.

'' We call it the Dutch garden' Mr. Denys
said. " You see those broad green walks ?
 They are delightful in these hot summer
nights when the moon is up. Let us go out
there for a little while. The place has been
kept precisely as it was planted a hundred and
fifty years ago. It must have seen a world of
people, lovers and others. There used to bea
wooden balcony and steps down from the

old window, but we did away with them when
we enlarged the opening. Perhaps it was a
mistake ; for now we must go through the
house."

Mr. Denys talked fast, and moved on as he
talked, drawing Delia by the hand. In the
hall he seized a plaid of his own, and folded it
about her shoulders with the practised art of
a man who has had to take thought habitually
for a tender companion. The door was not
shut, and Delia stepped out upon the lawn
into the full light of the moon, and stood
gazing abroad at the serene majesty and
splendour. Then she looked back at the
house, and as Mr. Denys came and stood
by her, she asked him if he had lived
there always.

Never, until you promised to come and
live with me. Since then I have been building
your nest. There is half a life-time behind

me, Delia. You shall be welcome to all its
history, but not now."

I will not be afraid of shadows if I can
help it, nor jealous of what never belonged
to me."

That is well and kindly spoken. Will you
take my arm ? I want my young wife to be
my best friend  I have set some hopes upon
her. We turn this way."

This way was down a step or two, and then
along a tile-paved path through an arch cut in
the green wall of the Dutch garden, which
appeared to Delia as if laid out in moonlight
cheques of black and white. It was a sweet-scented
seclusion, divided into four equal parts
by turfed walks crossing at right angles, the
centre being marked by a sun-dial raised
on an octagonal base. One heard there the
rustle of the waves washing the shingle to
and fro on the beach when the day was

Still, but got no bonny blue gleam of the
water.

Afterwards, when she became familiar with
the place, and knew it in the garish sunshine,
Mrs. Denys did not much affect its trim
monotony unless to entertain company there.

CHAPTER X.

IN THE SUNSHINE  AN EMPTY HOUSE.

** The earth lay like one great emerald, ringed and roofed with
sapphire ;
Blue sea, blue mountain, blue sky overhead."

C. Kingsley.

The splendid weather that Mr. Denys brought
his bride home to held for a considerable
while. A series of thunder-storms with bountiful
rain had refreshed the earth at the bearing



king of harvest, and the country round Cote
was in the perfection of its beauty. Delia
woke to the enjoyment of new pleasures in this
fair, pastoral land by the sea. Every day
Mr. Denys had something to show her, somewhere
to take her.

** It is paradise ! I think I can live and be
good here," she said with a soft enthusiasm
that was half surprise at herself.

Mr. Denys did not remind her who went
disguised in Eden. Her air of perfect wellbeing
amused and gratified him.

You might have escaped from some
great city canopied with smoke, where the
rain rains every day, and the whirr of
money-spinning never gives over," he said.

They had gone up that morning to a ridge
where nothing grew but gorse and little wildflowers
akin to the wind. It was a lonesome
spot, but very lovely. On both sides it ran
down into the dusk entanglement of woods,
and all that could be seen from it then was
open sea, green wilderness, and shccp-fed
down, with clouds of faint blue smoke hovering
here and there, to the betrayal of solitary
farmsteads and remote villaccs hidden in the

low, sheltered spots which the old builders
favoured. Lonof since those villages have

o o

emerged into the open, and reached out their
hands to one another. All that fine, indented
part of the coast is fringed with human habitations.
Houses cluster thick upon the cliffs
where on that peaceful day were none of them,
but only clumps of broom, and rows and
groups of umber-stemmed pine-trees, amongst
which the thatched roofs of Cote lay buried in
their gardens out of short.

On the right hand the high down closed the
prospect, and the fields, arable and pasture,
swelled to meet it with many gentle slopes
and shallow depressions. There was no level
line except the sea-line, and no house to be
seen but the Manor House, set under a
round wooded hill, with its numerous windows
glancing in the sun.

** He has a beautiful share of the world who

owns all this," Delia said, looking straight
before her.

'' It is a partnership now  mine and thine,
Delia. We will do with it what you like.
Cote is your dower  your house till death."

His wife turned to Mr. Denys inquiringly :
What can we do with it ? It is charming as
it is," she said.

He began to tell her of the stir of life and
prosperity at that period almost universal in
the world  of out-of-the-way places roused
from the slumber of ages by the shrill alarum
of the railway-whistle, and of fortunate proprietors
of land where main lines passed
putting money in their purses beyond the
wildest dreams of cupidity.

Delia was not moved to admire the prospect
of rude changes. She said that she preferred
her paradise in quiet.

We are not likely to be tempted this year,

VOL. I. K

nor, perhaps, next," Mr. Denys told her.
But Sir Thomas Britton, over yonder at
Marshleas, is all for progress, and Midas at
Cambourne is with him. Cote lies between
the two, and when the time comes we shall
have to make up our minds whether to let it go
with the stream or be stranded and left high
and dry on one side. Cambourne is starting
at a great pace already, but it would not be
difficult to cut us all out of the world. If you
observe the configuration of the coast, you will
see that we live in a peninsula. Lowborn',
which is our market-town, is on the isthmus
that connects us with the mainland."

Delia listened thoughtfully, glad that there
was no call upon them for instant decision, but
able to foresee that neither might enjoy being
stranded when their neighbours were rising
with the tide. She had seen Marshleas from
the sea, and Cambourne she had driven

through, Marshleas consisted of a grey-green
mansion surrounded by watery pastures, and a
few fishermen's huts on the low shores of the
bay. Cambourne was a verdant bower amidst
limestone crags, with intricate break-neck roads,
a barn - Hke church, and a few cottages of
labourers. Cote, midway between the two,
was as primitive as Cambourne and almost
as picturesque ; but being open to the north,
the air was more bracing, and from the lie of
the land the climate was drier  the fault of all
that region being a too great abundance of
moisture.

Mrs. Denys had not yet walked about the
village  Mr. Denys rather avoided the village
but he acquiesced when Delia proposed that
they should take a turn round that way on
the road home. It was a windings road, and
at several points composed into lovely pictures
with the sea for a background. The first

houses they came to were casement stone
houses, all under thatch. Here was the inn ;
the shop where bread, groceries, and drapery
formed a mingled store ; and the library and
bazaar, where a few shelves of books, a few
phials of drugs, and a scanty miscellaneous collection
of shells, pebbles, toys, and stationery,'
invited strangers to read, take physic, and carry
away a small memorial of the isolated village.
Wherever there is sea, and easy access to a
pleasant beach, strangers will find their way,
and though Cote had provided no special
accommodation for them, there were over the
"shops and elsewhere some little rooms where
gentle people were contented to eat and sleep
for a week or two of summer weather, inconsideration
of the charms that were to be
enjoyed out of doors. And every year of
late more had sought to come.

Beyond this cluster of houses the road bent



uphill, bordered by tall hedgerows and overhanging
trees. A lane on the right diverged
to the cliffs and the way down to the shore.
The cliffs at Cote were severed by a deep
wooded glen, wide at the mouth next the sea,
and narrowing as it ran inland until it was
lost in the copses under the down. High
up on the sunny side, and well sheltered at
the back, were a few cottages of gentility,
enclosed in gardens that mounted by slopes
and terraces of rude, irregular construction,
by groves of bays, myrtles, and fuchsias, by
stone steps and rows of pines, grotesque and
shadowy. The position of these cottages was
very fine, but an old house, called the Glen
House, occupied on a lower level a site more
delightful than any. It was accounted, indeed,
the most characteristic and beautiful spot in
Cote.

Nothings to be seen of the Glen House

from the road. Beeches and sycamores and
the dusky ilex cast a wavering gloom over the
lane, and hedges of yew and holly made an
impervious screen below.

It is not inhabited," Mr. Denys said as
they passed the gate.

** Then may we go in, and see the view ? "
Delia asked.

'eyes  yes, if you wish it," he said, and
turned with just a perceptible shade of
reluctance.

A thought had flashed into Mrs. Denys*
mind, but it was just too late. A gardener
at work close inside the gate routed low to
the squire and the lady, and Mr. Denys walked
on, not speaking, but looking about as if he
had not lately seen the place, and was noting
chancres.

The house had three low gables in front,
and wide lattices glazed in the Venetian

manner. The roof was thatched, and the
walls were completely clothed with myrtle.
There was a magnolia in blossom sheltered
by a projecting wing, and roses in profusion
dropped over the light iron fence that protected
the cliff. The turf was like velvet, and
even the Dutch garden at the Manor House
could not more than vie with the jewelled
mosaic-work of the flower-beds and borders.
The place was kept with the most careful
labour. Not a weed, not a faded leaf, appeared
anywhere. And yet it was an empty house.
The windows were closed and darkened as
if one lay dead there. But the dead and the
mourners were long gone out of it. It was
only an empty house.

It stood on a plateau fifty feet or so back
from the edge of the precipitous sandstone
cliff, where it made a hollow curve, facing the
mouth of the crlcn, which was full of trees.

Looking from the rustic verandah across this
expanse of forage, tinted with early autumn
and softened by sunny haze, the view dropped
abruptly on the sands, where a thread
of water ran into the sea. And here a few
boats, fishing-nets, crab-pots, and bare-legged
men and boys in blue jerseys and red nightcaps,
gave life and animation to the scene.

You can guess what this place is, Delia ? "
Mr. Denys said.

Your former home : I am so sorry,
Hugh;" and Delia sounded very sorry,
indeed.

- They did not say much, but Mr. Denys
led the way down a hollow green walk between
two rows of beech-trees, mossy under foot
and cool over head, with boughs arching
and interlacing  a very sweet spot, a shade
and a silence apart from the world. On the
outside of the trees was a path wide enough

for two, which skirted the cuff, and had a
margin of wild garden and bushes that in
the season were garrulous with the chatter
of birds.

'ewe were always here when the spring
was turning to summer," Mr. Denys said.
"It was the time of the year that Agnes
loved best. She was a hopeful soul."

They had come to a seat where the prospect
was open towards the house, and Mr. Denys
invited his wife to rest there while he went
farther. Delia accepted the invitation, taking
it for a command.

She had determined already on her line
of behaviour  she would be nothing but o-ood
to her husband as concerning the former
circumstances and events of his life. If she
trespassed, it would be by accident; if she did
not perfectly sympathise, it would be through
ignorance. She perceived that there was a

soreness in his recollections of past years,
though he never spoke but of their sweetness.


This thing seemed to her especially hard
to have sons that he loved and was proud
of, and not to have them with him, and a
little maid-child besides whom he never saw.
Delia had heard of her from Mrs. Brice. She
was a baby when her mother died.

Mrs. Denys set her heart to consider
whether she could not chancre this for the

o

peace and comfort of them all. Pride
whispered that it might be safer to let well
alone. But Delia desired to be wise, and
wisdom is a loving spirit.

The next Sunday Mr. and Mrs. Denys
went to church at home  to Cote Church.
They had gone to Cambourne, and farther
still, to say their prayers on the previous
Sundays, and Delia had not yet been within

the gates. As they walked up the path
the bell was performing Its five minutes'
ritual of ringing the people In, and Mr.
Denys drew his wife on one side to wait
until it ceased.

The churchyard was pretty of itself, and
the pretty custom prevailed of putting flowers
upon the graves. Near by where they
stood, below the east window, adjoining the
vault In the chancel where smouldered the
bones of all the Denyses who had died at
home, was a grave, and three in It for
company. A granite slab against the wall
enclosed a lozenge of brass, on which their

names were written

Marie Theodora Denys. Marie Placid
Denys. Marie Agnes : their dear Mother."

A cross and three crowns lay upon the
green grass above the dead. They were
never forgotten.

They had been taken all together. '' It
was the fever' Mr. Denys said, alluding to
the familiar enemy of rich and 230or at Cote.

Delia bent her head, deeply touched, not
attempting to speak.

In a simple, pleasant tone as if it were
nothing, Mr. Denys added: "When my time
comes it is my wish to be burled next them.
There will be your place over beyond me."

Delia drew herself up, shuddering strongly :
It is soon to talk of dying, and only married
the other day," she said, and the moment
after: "Look, Hugh! there is somebody
walking over our grave."

It was a very little girl, beautifully dressed
in white and carrying a posy, who was making
her way on the level sward to the mound.
She laid her offering by the cross, and then
knelt down and lifted her hands in the attitude
of supplication. There were many witnesses.

The rector hurried by  a good man apt to
be five minutes late  shedding a tender, pitiful
glance on the small devotee and a benign
smile on the squire's lady.

Is this your doing, Delia ? " her husband
asked in a quiet, neutral voice.

Delia said first, '' No." But that was not
quite true, perhaps, and she made haste to
add : *' It may be. If you are glad she is
here, so am I. After service I will tell
you."

The child's attendant was a lady in black,
who stood behind her, and took no notice of
anybody else. Her dress was much like that
of an Anglican sister of charity. In fact, she
belonged to the religious house where, at the
request of her mother in dying, the little girl
had been sent to be taken care of and brought
up.

Mr. Denys conducted his wife into church,

but presently went out again, and remained
outside until the singing began, when he reappeared
with the child, and set her up on the
seat next himself, holding her within his arm,
from which vantage-ground she surveyed the
congregation as if they all belonged to her.
The old building was full to overflowing with
distinguished visitors, many of whom, finding
no room in pews, sat on chairs in the aisle,
stood in the porch, and hung about the open
windows, if by chance they might hear a
word.

Mrs. Denys, from her spacious seat apart in
the chancel, regarded them with compassion,
and wished the church enlarged. It was a
customary sight to the rector and his native
flock, a sign of a crowded season that caused
them to rejoice. During the hymn before
sermon two or three ladies went out overcome
by the heat, and all the younger ones amongst

the school-children, awakening some envy in
the breasts of their elder companions arrived
at the years of confirmation. The little girl,
who had been contented till now with her
father s knee, cast a glance towards the lap of
the lady, white like her own frock, and after
walking about a little came to a stand there,
resting her hands and looking up in the sweet
serious face. Delia looked down at her as she
used to look at Cricket, and the child intimated
a wish to be better friends. Then Delia lifted
her up, and settled herself comfortably in her
corner. The child intimated further that her
hat and gloves must come off, and beings
of these, she nestled softly down with
a sigh of baby satisfaction, watched for a
drowsy moment a bird flying amongst the
brown old rafters of the roof, and then fell
asleep.

Mr. Clarges had a very agreeable delivery.

and in his matter nothing exciting. It was
a warm morning, and Mrs. Denys seemed to
hear the humming of bees. They were humming
in the land of Nod. The fashionable
bonnets wagged, wavered, melted into a cloud
with the round heads of the dearly beloved
brethren. Her eyes closed, her face drooped
over the child's flower-face. Mr. Denys
blushed for them. The preacher looked
down, and turned over two leaves of his
sermon.

There was a famous painter in the congregation
who had the pair full in view : " Wasn't
it lovely ? " he said to a comrade at going out
of church.

And that the squire's young wife made a
soft lap for the motherless bairn was a favourable
introduction of her to their tenants and
humble neighbours. She was much talked of
under cottage-roofs that day.

A man who knew him well, said : " Denys
is a rough fellow, and will drive her a sore
heart before he has done with her ; " to
which a woman who heard him made
answer : *' So he may,  so he may. But she
has trot the love in her that's a sovereign
heal-all."

There was no sign of the nun-like person
when Mr. and Mrs. Denys, with the little girl
between them, walked through the churchyard
home. That lady was found in the Dutch
garden. Delia suddenly bethought her of her
promised explanation, but there was no need
of it.

I have remembered  it is an anniversary
to-day," Mr. Denys said. " Already you
have begun to put things out of my mind,
Delia. This little Marie Irene is four years
old, complete since the sunrise, and they have
sent her from her convent to pray at her

VOL. I. L

mother's grave. That was a promise when
the good sisters took her in chase."

Little Marie-Irene had slept at sermon
enough, and was very lively and active the
rest of the day  a most affectionate child,
and docile for such an energetic spirit. Mrs.
Denys was even tired when she went away,
but the ' tiredness was of a happy sort. It
reminded her of the houseful at Auldcaster.

I should like to have the noise of the
little feet and voice always here. You cannot
think how still it is when I am left
alone by myself," she said, without considering.


Mr. Denys was silent for an instant, then he
replied : " I have not brought you to Cote to
bury you all at once. I ought to go to Nave-stock
early this week, and you shall go with
me. Let it be tomorrow  the country is
beautiful before the corn is cut. I cannot

bring the child home : my word to her
mother is sacred. Think of another toy."

'' I want no toy, Hugh. Since we have
shown ourselves at church, the people roundabout
will call, will they not ? "

Some of them will Delia, but we need not
stay at home for them. We have not many
neighbours. There is Mrs. Wilton, a daughter
of Sir John and Lady Herrick, who made a
poor match. She is the only young lady in
the place likely to be a companion for you."

Mrs. Denys was silent now in her turn.
Then she asked some question respecting
Navestock, which caused her husband to
regard her with a sudden surprised intentness.

*' Do not you know that Navestock was dismantled
and abandoned as a residence forty
years ago ? " he said.

Delia would have given much to keep
the blush out of her face that betrayed how

immensely she was disconcerted. "No," she
said, " I did not know that. I read a fine
description of the house in the county
history."

Mr. Denys turned his eyes upon the ground.
'' That was all true when it was written half
a century back. It was a great and famous
house once, but the fortunes of the family
have been long unequal to its maintenance."

Delia had taken for granted whatever her
lively imagination was pleased to depict in
adornment of the original plain statement that
Mr. Denys was very rich. If she was making
discoveries, he was making discoveries too.
He had it very much at heart to fulfil her
expectations, and he did not quite know what
these expectations were. Delia was anxious to
drop the subject, but Mr. Denys went on to say
that he had never cared to make a home of
more than one house, and amongst the country

places that belonged to him he had chosen for
their married life this  Cote Manor House 
because of its being the ancient seat of his
family. It Alas not grand, but it was grand
enough for him, whose habits were early
formed on simple lines.

Delia's cheeks burned at the thought of her
magnificent castles in the air. " And for me
too, dear Hugh, for me too," she said in haste
deprecatingly, sensible all the while of a painful,
shame-faced embarrassment.

Mr. Denys was blind to it: 'ewe will goto
Navestock ; and when you have seen Nave-stock,
afterwards we will go into Kent," he
said quietly, as if something had been given
him to reflect on.

Delia was relieved and clad. The tedium
of life visits new homes, even the best, until
with use and custom they grow friendly. She
was restless yet, and the prospect of more

change and variety was agreeable to her.
What was unknown was still a background for
the bright weaving of her fancy, which she
indulged again now with a sort of wilful delight
in its recovered freedom. Mr. Denys was beyond
the age of day-dreams, but perhaps his
experience was better.

CHAPTER XL

NAVESTOCK UNDER A CURSE.

The multiplying brood of the ungodly shall not thrive nor lay
any fast foundation."  The Wisdom of Solomon.

Mrs. Denys had not to suffer in her early-married
life what young people of active disposition
most dread  she had not to suffer
dulness. They heard of her at the House with
Golden Gables as driving about the country
with her husband in his mail-phaeton, looking
handsomer than ever, and wearing a becoming
dress of fie dark serge, and a black
plumed hat.

'' My lady recommends a close fitting

costume of that sort to Jem's wife," said Sir
John Herrii ck, who was their informant.
** Pretty Fan is rather too fond of light, bright
colours."

'' And how does Mr. Denys look ? " Lady
Daventry asked. Delia's mother winced at
the question.

Denys looks good friends with his company,"
Sir John answered. 'ewe shall have
to hold out a hand to him for your dear girl's
sake. Luttrell was talking of them at the
magistrates' meeting on Saturday at Beauminster."


Mr. and Mrs. Denys had been seen in Beauminster
the day before. It had been decided
on the road to stop the night there, and
proceed to Navestock in the morning. The
minster bell was going for evening service
when they arrived as the Cross Keys. Delia
would have liked to go to prayers, but Mr.

Denys was not prayerfully disposed, and did
not judge it fit to let his young wife go alone.
He pleaded business, and left her with Phoebe
for an hour or two in a loner low room of the
old inn, which had a line of windows looking
into the Close, and a bow commanding the
entrance from the Hioh Street.

The owner of Navestock was known in
Beauminster, and eager, deferential greetings
met him at almost every step. Mr. Denys'
ordinary manner was abrupt and cold, the
reverse of a popular manner, and he did not
once halt for a crreetincr until a gentleman
having an air of some distinction came up with
outstretched hand and audible inquiries how
he did. This gentleman turned and walked
with him the way he was going.

It was getting on for six o'clock, and Mrs.
Denys was tiring of her solitude in a strange
place, when an open carriage with a pair of

handsome bay horses driven by a lady passed
up the High Street, and a few minutes later
returned, bringing back the gentlemen. Mrs.
Denys was witness to a very animated conversation
scene between her husband and the
lady. Delia did not admire her. Finally the
strangers drove away, and Mr. Denys came
upstairs to his wife in an exhilarated humour.
It had done him oood to fall in with old
friends to whom he could talk with his old
freedom, and he began to speak of them to
Delia, not very delicately, but with the intention
of prepossessing her in their favour.

'* Some of you poor young ladies have
wonderful great luck," he said. " That lady
was as poor as yourself, Delia, until she
captivated Mr. Essex-Brough."

She must be much older than I am.
Has she been married long ? " Delia said
crisply.

No. She wears well. She does not tell
her age at all."

Delia thought that the lady's face and
figure told of six-and-thlrty, but she did not
express her opinion. Also she thought her
bold-looking and boisterous, but of this too
she was reticent. She inferred from her
husband's sudden elation of spirits that they
were amongst his favourite and familiar

o

associates, and she listened attentively while
he explained them further.

'' She was Miss Charlotte Deane Foxe, a
daughter of Sir Martin Deane Foxe, a capital
horsewoman. Mr. Midas at Cambourne
is her cousin. They are living now at
Lingfield, a fine place midway between
Beauminster and Navestock, but they do not
get on well in the clerical society here. He
talks of selling it, and coming out Cote way.
Cote has not too many neighbours, and you

might find her an acquisition. She is a
clever woman."

Mrs. Denys' countenance did not promise
a very cordial welcome to Mrs. Essex Brough,
but she said " Yes " musingly. She was
considering that so far as neighbours went
Cote was unexplored country yet. Cricket
had acquainted her carefully with the names
and standing of the county families within
a twelve miles' round. She desired to
begin well, and was not without rules and
precedents for so beginning. At Auldcaster
the best society in the best sense was all she
had known, and her experience was sufficient
to warn her that the lady loudly jesting and
laughing at the inn-door with Mr. Denys
was not of the type and good form she had
been used to.

On the wav to Navestock the next mornings
they called at Lingfield and took luncheon,

the mail-phaeton being sent on with notice
that they would follow shortly. Delia was
not quite pleased with the arrangement, which
had been made without consulting her, and
she was not apt at concealing her feelings,
but Mrs. Essex-broach made no sign of recd

O

harding them. She talked with lively fluency
and observance, decided at a glance that
Mrs. Denys was very young in the ways
of the world, and probably very tame. Her
manner of offended princess she found rather
absurd, and then she thought of her no more,
but devoted all her attention to j\Ir. Denys.
Delia was not angry, but in her own mind
she called Mrs. Essex-Brough odious, presuming
 a pale, sallow woman with a great
mouth and province eves. Mr. Denvs knew
the fastidious turn of his wife's lip, and the
other lady was sensible presently of being
checked and curbed, and her familiarity held

in. Mr. Essex-Brough sat silent, his arms
folded across his chest, and his chin down,
eating nothing and speaking seldom. His
features were refined, but he was not agreeable
to look at. He had a bad countenance, Delia
said to herself, almost suddenly becoming
aware of it. Altogether she did not like
these friends of her husband, whom he seemed
desirous of making her friends too.

After luncheon Mrs. Essex-Brough undertook
to drive her guests to Navestock. The
distance was about three miles through
delightful scenery. When the carriage turned
off the highway in at a stout wooden gate,
it rolled smoothly along a good road, on both
sides of which the wheat was ripening
unfenced. The expanse of undulating ground
was clear of hedges and bare of trees, saving
isolated groups and single trees spared for
their beauty, or to relieve the monotony.

*' It looks like a park sown with corn,"
Mrs. Denys said, gazing about curiously
interested.

Mrs. Essex BrouQh answered her : " That
is just what it is. At the top of the next rise
you will see the house. If it belonged to us,
I would have it pulled down. I would sell
the materials or burn them, and pass the
plough over the site. Then, perhaps, there
would be no more curse."

Mrs. Denys wished this rude woman were
out of the way with her terribly coarse suggestions.


** There it is, Delia, there is Navestock,"
said her husband, and she leaned forward to
contemplate the exquisite scene.

It was exquisite indeed, but strange, but
unexpected. The house stood out white and
clear, a vision of architectural grace, against
a waving sea of golden train. There was no

wilderness of neglected gardens, but everywhere
labour and rich culture. The fine plan
of the terrace could be traced looking down
the valley to the Avon, but corn grew on and
under its slopes. The great centre flight of
steps with their balustrade remained, and fora
little way a footpath that was presently
lost. Far as eye could see stretched a
soft, luxuriant, rolling country, lilac in the
far-off clouds of air, sun-colour, hot and
vivid near.

Did I not tell you that it had ceased to
be a house and home forty years ago,
Delia?" Mr. Denys said after a pause of
several minutes, during which he had been
watchings his wife's face.

Delia's dumb astonishment continued unbroken.
She looked at him, but her mind
was absent.

The carrlaoe, which had halted at this fine

point of view, drove gently on until it came
under the shadow of the walls, then turned
in at an archway below a magnificent overhanging
window, and came to a stand in a
great quadrangle with buildings all round it,
and siofns of life enough, but of a life that
looked oddly out of character with its environments.
Delia might have known it before
had she heeded, or had her heart not been
so set against hearing. And yet she could
not remember that even Cricket had ever
spoken of Navestock as degraded into a
farmstead.

In the centre of the spacious square the
pavement had been taken up to turn it into
a fold-yard. A very populous fold-yard it
was, and most comfortably well-to-do. Milch-cows
drowsed in the warm, quiet afternoon,
and families of pigs were fat and happy, knee-deep
in trampled straw. Pigeons and Ixirn-

VOL. I. M

door fowls were there in cheerful multitudes ;
and the house-dog, after one sonorous bark of
warning to his friends, disposed himself in
front of his kennel to receive the fine company
with affability. His voice brought out men
and women, a stableman and Mr. Denys'
groom, a dairy-maid with her pails, and a
large ruddy person in a white-ribbed apron,
who called to the men to seek the master.
This ruddy personage looked towards the
carriage inquisitively, but did not approach.

You see what it is, Delia  a great farm.
It was done long before my time," Mr. Denys
said, getting down from the carriage, and
divino her his hand to descend.

Delia cast her eyes upwards, and saw
through the rich, stone-transomed windows of
splendid chambers that they had been converted
into storehouses, granaries, and barns.
The building was so strong that it might

serve these common uses for centuries yet.
From one high opening hung a powerful
crane ; against another was leant up a
wide - stepped ladder. A brick stairway
had been built in a corner, and a window
removed to make room for a strong oaken
door.

The clatter of a horse's hoofs on the pavement
announced the arrival of the master, who
dismounted, and came up to Mr. Denys with
the frank deference of a prosperous tenant perceiving
his landlord. He was a young mana
modern, farmer with progressive notions,
who had been educated at an agricultural
college, had succeeded to his father's place,
and was filling it adequately. The ruddy
personage still at the door was the widow, his
mother, Mrs. Golden.

Mrs. Gooden had no great favour for Mr.
Denys, and none at all for Mr. and Mrs.

Essex-brooch, whom she knew well. She
waited for them to approach before stirring to
offer her welcome, then to Mrs. Denys she
curtseyed, relaxed, and was gracious. News
had come to Navestock of the marriage at
Auldcaster without consent of friends, and
had raised no wonder ; for the Daventrys
were a family of honour and renown in all
that part of the country. Mrs. Gooden admired
the beautiful bride, but thought her
not to be envied, whether she had married
for love or for money, as the tale was told
to her. She had a long memory, and knew
many things.

The young gentlemen are out, and about
somewhere with their guns," she informed
Mr. Denys curtly. '' Half their time they
spend at Lingfield. Bed and board, that is
all they trouble me for."

'' I am sorry they are not acceptable guests,"

Mr. Denys answered, looking her straight in
the eyes.

I never said so, sir," she rejoined, her
ruddiness flamine into heat.

Mr. Denys turned to his wife, speaking
in an undertone : " The boys are
here, DeHa. They ought to have met us.
They will come in by and by when we are
alone."

Delia knew the boys were there, and was
well inclined towards making their acquaintance.


After this Mr. Denys signified that the two
ladies wished to see the house, and perhaps
Mrs. Gooden would act as their guide, or find
a deputy while he transacted some immediate
business with her son. Mrs. Gooden had
better manners than to refuse the respect
due to their landlord's wife, and, preceded
by a woman-servant to unfasten shutters

and let daylight into the deserted rooms,
she led the way herself.

The place had never been made a show
of since it was dismantled, when the great
sale that ensued was a nine days' work. Once
it had been royal in its state and grandeur,
but now it was denuded and dead-alive.
Their footsteps echoed in the empty rooms,
and their voices echoed too.

'' It feels like walking amongst ghosts'*
Mrs. Essex-Brough whispered, treading with
stage-stealthiness down the long ball-room,
where the smell of must and mildew met
them in the face like a chill breath out of
a grave.

This is the north side of the house. There
is never any sun here  that is why it smells
damp," Mrs. Gooden explained, seeing Mrs.
Denys shiver. " It has never been used
since " She checked herself and hesitated.

'since when? since what?" Mrs. Denys
said. " You need not fear to shock me 
I know. They say it was murder  I have
no doubt it was accident." Her voice
was low but peremptory, quite forbidding
reply.

From the ball-room they passed into an
ante-room which had furniture of a motley sort
and a glass door opening on a flight of steps
that led down into a small, square garden,
turfed and intersected by straight walks. A
perforated stone balustrade enclosed this
garden, over which ancient lime-trees extended
their branches, the only shaded
green loveliness they had seen yet. Then
they turned back along the floor where
lords and ladles of successive generations had
danced the orange and the minuet, the
country-dance and the quadrille, until the
lamps were finally put out after a grand

rout, which ended with hot words and perhaps
a passionate blow.

'' It was here they found him," Mrs. Gooden
said, speaking with awe.

She had opened a narrow door formed of
a panel in the wainscot to show the dreadful
spot  a sort of stone entry at the bottom of
a turret-stair, dimly lighted from above by a
slit in the wall. The ladies would not go up.
Mrs. Denys drew her breath through her
teeth with an audible gasp.

Mrs. Gooden said again: "Just here: as
if he had missed his footing coming down,
and had fallen headlong. His neck was
broken, and his flaxen hair all dabbled with
blood from a wound in the right temple."

Mrs. Denys stared with a pallid face, and
asked if she remembered it.

I remember it as if it had happened
yesterday. I was the wood-steward's niece,

a servant in the house, waiting on the ladies.
The young man was bonnier than some I've
seen, but real wild and wilful : no great loss
if there'd been other sons, but there was
none. It was the old story over again, and
the curse come true. A quarrel with his
father about money. It always is money, they
say. Their voices were heard in loud contention
and anger, but only God above was
witness to what was acted."

Mrs. Denys moved away, and Mrs. Gooden's
further moralities were lost in the creaking of
the panel-door as she re-closed it.

Mrs. Essex Brough muttered to herself,
snuffing the malodorous air: "If I were wife
to Denys of Cote I would not bring my babies
to Navestock for all that it is worth."

Mrs. Denys caught her meaning, but
offered no remark.

There was a name for each of the rooms

through which the ladles wandered farther.
All were reduced to the same level of nakedness,
but the fabric was scarcely touched
yet with decay. The oaken floors were sound,
the floated ceilings sharp and clear. In the
saloon looking south over the terrace, the
great central window had many panes open,
and the wind blew in pure and sweet.
Certain iron hooks, from which stout lines
stretched across between wall and wall, just
high enough to clear the heads of persons
walking underneath, told the reason why.
The farmers dried her clothes there in bad
weather. Indeed, nothings sacred now.
The smell of cheese and apples was strong in
the guest-chambers on the grand gallery that
went round the hall, and dust was everywhere
in the upper stories dust of meal and dust of
ages. And finally, for a climax of surprises,
from a wing shut off by lofty, double-leaved

doors came a noise of children  of so many
children that it might have been a school
broke loose.

Mrs. Gooden explained it. '' The labourers'
families are accommodated in the west wing,
which makes six good tenements. Navestock
is a village of itself. The clergyman holds a
service on Sunday afternoons in the chapel,
and a comfort it is in the short winter days, for
the church is over a mile off You see,ma'am,
when the park and pleasure-grounds were
broken up for cultivation it seemed better to
turn the old house to whatever purposes it
would serve than to spend money on new
buildings, when money, perhaps, there was
none to spare."

When Mrs. Gooden launched into details
Mrs. Denys' attention flagged. Her brain
was busy with speculations on what she saw,
and the interruption was not unwelcome when

Mr. Essex Brough called for his wife, and
they two drove off.

Mr. Denys was still engaged out of doors
with his tenant, and Mrs. Gooden invited Mrs.
Denys to her parlour and a cup of tea, which
was a comfortable parlour and excellent tea.
Phoebe presented herself with the tray, seeking
instructions and looking serious. Mrs.
Gooden, perusing the young woman's countenance,
inquired whether it was the squire's
intention to stay the night at Navestock,
because, though he had stayed sometimes by
the week together in the hunting-season and
for the partridge-shooting, there was nothing
fit for a lady, unless Mrs. Denys would be
pleased to accept of her best room, which
was plain, but sweet and dry as sunshine
and fresh air could make it.

This told more than met the ear, taken
together with her tone in speaking to Mr.

Denys of his sons ; and Mrs. Denys rightly
inferred that she had been received into favour
by this worthy but formal and conventional
person. Her husband had spoken of having
business at Navestock for a week, and before
accepting or declining the proffered lodging,
she asked to be shown his customary quarters.
To reach them she was conducted through the
ball-room again, and though rough and bare
quarters they proved to be, she said, nevertheless,
that they would do. Phoebe's solemnity
was abated in proportion as her mistress was
pleased. She was one of those paradoxical
characters who do not believe in ghosts,
yet are mortally afraid of them, and being
shown a passage that led by roundabout
methods to the cheerful kitchen without
ofolnof near the haunted door, she was
heartened up to her duties, and the results
were capital for a makeshift.

Meanwhile Mrs. Denys waited in the
ante - room which opened on the garden
where the Metres made a fragrant screen
against the sun. By every token it washer
husband's den. Here were guns and
whips, fishing-tackle, foils, and boxing-gloves.
Here were books of farriery, agriculture,
sport, and law. There were maps and
surveys on the walls. Here were old
pictures almost extinct, and old pieces of
furniture, without doubt the refuse of the
great sale of forty years ago. Delia had
that habit of observation which accurately
registers details. The next room, which
served apparently as a room to eat in, possessed
a series of ideal landscapes painted
in the tall panels of the wainscot, and in
medallions above them was a series of family
portraits. Delia wished they had been
ideal too, but she could not deny her

husband's ancestry. They were a race of
thick-set, strong-featured men Hke himself,
and had delighted in exuberant fat women,
if the witnesses on the walls were to be
believed. The present Denys of Navestock
seemed to be the first who had brought a
beauty into the family.

As Delia contemplated the ladies whose
successor she was, an indescribable feeling
of humiliation crept into her heart. She
recognised that they had not all been wrong
at the House with Golden Gables ; that she
had indeed fallen on a prodigious blunder,
that she had indeed married under a cloud
of delusion. Navestock was an old place,
Denys was an old name, but this she had
failed to grasp  that a place may be old
without dignity, and a name may be old
without honour. If she could have seen this
house with its desecrated chambers, its uorlv

effigies, she would have paused, she would
have understood the meanings and significance
of such a dearth of treasures and glories,
and would hardly, perhaps, have cared to
make herself a unit in a line so ignoble.

But the deed was done, and by good-luck
that had happened since which hindered
regret, though her world of dreams lay behind
her, and before her a life which had no glow
of them at all : she had learned to care for
her husband more than for any of the things
that he could or could not give her.

This shabby museum of odds and ends
collected to serve the day's necessities touched
her sense of the incongruous, and the lauo-h
was still on her lips when Mr. Denys came
by some way unseen into the garden, and
made straight for the class door. This was
the means of access to the house which he
and his sons used always. Delia appeared

on the steps as he approached  Hight in her
eyes, mirth in her face.

"Weary of waiting for me, DeHa ? " he
said, running up to meet her.

'' Yes, Huoh. I have been over this seat
house. It would lodge an army, but there
is nothing in it so enchanting as my window
at Cote with its beautiful view of the sea."

Mr. Denys was gratified by her appreciation
of his gift : '' Ah, you will find it hard
to match that, whether at home or abroad.
Now, Navestock never touched my heart
at all, but it gives me an immensity of
work."

Can I help you ? I should like to help
you," Delia said with perfect simplicity of
intention.

Your life will be better furnished if you
can take a real interest in affairs. There
is a vast deal to do and think of in the

VOL. I. N

administration of estates in land, but perhaps
it is scarcely in a young lady's way." Mr.
Denys seemed at the same time amused and
pleased by his wife's wish to help him.

"If you will let me learn things, I have
notions, Hugh," Delia said modestly.

So I have discovered," was his shrewd,
lauohinor answer. He had discovered, too,
that their notions were not always in accord.
His standard was a long way below that
which the Daventrys and Herrickss measured
by  the only standard Delia knew  and would
have to be raised considerably before he
would endure to have his actions tested
under her inspection ; for he ardently desired
that she should believe well of him.

The sound of boys' clear voices in animated
talk arrested what more they might have
said. Delia was still standing at the class
door, and saw them coming. They looked

Up at their father's call, blushing vividly both
of them, but not more vividly than Delia
herself.

Here they are, George and John, the
artist and the merchant," Mr. Denys said,
and took his wife's hand, who moved forward
with a sweet, kind stateliness to
receive them.

The boys were handsome and perfectly
well-behaved. They bore little resemblance
to their English father, were dark-eyed and
dark-haired, taller than he was, but with
nothing like the promise of his strength.
Their mother had never visited Navestock,
nor had they in her lifetime, but since they
lost her, when the Glen House was permanently
closed, they had come there in
the holidays, consigned to the care of Mrs.
Gooden, who would perhaps have loved them
better had they been of more trouble to

her. They were companions for each other,
and so warmly attached that they were never
separate in the country. Mr. Denys had
even to all his children his own name at
baptism, but his sons had a distinct understanding
of their position ; and though it
induced some reserve of manner amongst
strangers, they cherished no resentment because
of it that could be detected. With
their father they appeared on cordial terms,
and when their father's young wife said
kindly that she trusted they would let herbe
their friend, John thought that would
be easy, and George with an odd, shy grace
touched her hand with his lips.

They dined in company, and dined well,
Mrs. Gooden's unpromising reception notwithstanding,
and afterwards Mr. Denys proposed
an adjournment to the terrace. There they
walked in the balmy cool of the evening

between sunset and dusk, and the young people
grew pretty well acquainted. Delia spoke of
her brothers who were of the same age, an
introduction which developed a latent sociability
in both the boys. Mr. Denys listened
to them, not taking much part in the conversation,
and gradually losing himself in thought.
They exchanged information about schools
and professions. George and John had both
gone from the first to international schools,
spending terms alternately in London, Paris,
and Vienna, acquiring the education of merchants
destined to trade with the wide world,
until George declared himself too much the
artist to be anything else successfully, since
which date he had been a student worklncr
hard at the Academy,

'' George will presently go to Rome. I am
going to Smyrna in the spring, to enter the
mercantile house of the Czcrnys  our mother's

people," John said. "Next Christmas will be
our last holiday together here."

Oh, but you must come and spend Christmas
at Cote. That will be merrier and
happier for all of us," Delia answered in an
expostulatory voice. She had taken to the
boys. She was touched by their gentleness
and frankness.

George asked rather quickly : *' Shall you
have our little sister with you?"

Delia told them of Marie-Irene at Cote last
Sunday, and promised to have her at the
Manor House at Christmas, If leave lay with
her. " You will let her come, Hugh ? the
Sisters will let her come, will they not ? "
she said to her husband.

Mr. Denys roused himself with an effort from
his fit of abstraction, and needed to have the
query explained. But he did not relapse.
The motherly impulse of his young wife

towards his children was very grateful to him,
and he had not expected it. "If you make
them feel that they have a home with us, my
boys and their little sister, I shall thank you,
indeed," he said, in a tone penetrated with
tenderness.

Delia just put her hand within his arm, and
they continued to pace the terrace until the
stars came out.

George and John discoursed with animation
of the pleasures of the sea, which they loved
and had missed at Navestock, and of Cote and
Cote people, making them known to Mrs.
Denys from their point of view. There was
old Crump, the agent, a name of fear, and
Richard and Jack Blythe at the Orchard,
names of renown, and the three Todds who
were boatmen, and probably smugglers, and
others besides to whom were attached familiar
memories of boyish adventures.

Their father crave them some links of inc
>

formation. The years of their exile from Cote
had not lapsed without events.

Richard Blythe is married, but he goes on
divine with his grandmother at the Orchard,"
he said in the manner of one who imparts an
unwelcome fact.

It was unwelcome ; yet it seemed a mitigation
of the boys' injury and bereavement that
Richard and not Jack had got married. Their
beloved Jack, entangled in the holy bonds of
matrimony, could never more have been playfellow
of theirs as he was once  their comrade
in sport, master in woodcraft, helper in many
a peril rashly and wilfully incurred. Delia
knew their hero as well as a man could be
known by his description before they had
done praising him.

'' The Blythes are a family of shepherds.
Two hundred years, from father to son, that

family have had the Orchard. A good stock,
but puritanical  a perpetual reproach to their
squires," Mr. Denys said, explaining them
further.

Delia looked up, feeling an edge in her
husband's tone that was strange to her,
and the boys were silent. Their glorification
of Jack Blythe had touched some jarring
chord of recollection in Mr. Denys' mind,
which was suddenly re-awakened in their
minds too, and the conversation dropped.

CHAPTER XII.

BELLS IN THE AIR.

Man and wife are equally concerned to avoid all offence of each
other in the beginning of their conversation. Every little thing can
blast an infant blossom" Jeremy Taylor.

Navestock was not more than a two hours'
drive from Auldcaster for those who knew
the cross - country roads, and over the hills
by the bridle - tracks it was considerably
less.

News was brought to the House with
Golden Gables that Mr. and Mrs. Denys
were at Navestock. Mrs. Daventry was hopefully
excited. Cricket said: "Now, mother,

what do you think  will Mr. Denys let sister
Dil come to see us ? "

We will send her a letter," his mother
answered, with a soothln caress.

The letter went by a special messenger,
and Delia had it early in the morning. She
did not anticipate this Invitation, and the
surprise brought a joyful flush to her face.
They were just rising from breakfast, they
and the boys.

Look here, Hugh," she whispered to her
husband, holdlnor him bv the arm, and offerlnor
the letter to his eyes.

He read it, and looking down at her, said
kindly enough, yet with a remonstrative tone :
I shall deny you nothing that you set your
heart on, Delia ; but I cannot go to Auldcastcr,
and judge you whether it be right and fair
that my wife should go home to her own
people for the first time without me .' " He

was, In fact, amazed that she could propose
to go.

Delia spoke not another word, but she
wrote : " Dear, dear mother, I cannot come
to you now. Tell Cricket we are on our way
into Kent, and I shall write him a letter from
Acklam, as soon as I have a long hour to
myself."

Mr. Denys was going to be occupied with
his tenant about matters that could give no
entertainment to the young people, and he
entrusted Delia to the boys, who promised to
be her escort wherever she might wish to go.
Delia could form no precise wishes yet, knowing
nothing of the place, and to begin at the
beginning, John asked if she had seen that
terrier of Navestock that hung in the justice-room.
Delia did not seem to know what the
terrier was, and she had not been in the
justice-room. John undertook to instruct her.

He had an historical mind that would have
made him acceptable to Cricket. No one
was more intimately acquainted with the
annals and traditions of his father's family
than John Denys.

The terminer' he said, " is a roll of the
tenants on the manor, with a map showing
the boundaries, roads, and water-courses, and
in what state of cultivation the soil was two
hundred years ago. It is older than the house
itself. They have a later survey shut up ina
strong box somewhere, from which we
know how Navestock has spread since it
came into possession of the Denyses of Cote ;
but this is much more curious. Come and
see it."

The lady was decoyed into a bleak and
lofty room where defunct law-breakers had
been brought to judgment before dead and
gone squires, and where were preserved, besides

the map on the wall, a worm-eaten oak
table and chair, unholy relics of that Denys
of Cote whose black deeds had brought the
broad acres of Navestock into his family
saddled with a curse. She examined it with
an interest that increased as John's exposition
grew long. It was worth his while to take
pains with her ; she wanted to learn, and Mr.
Denys, dropping in on them unexpectedly in
the middle of the morning, found her seemingly
quite absorbed.

"At work in earnest already, Delia .'" he
said with an intonation that caused the colour
to rise warmly in her face.

Delia's peculiar self - consciousness about
Navestock was likely to be embarrassing.
She replied that John had brought her thereto
give her a general idea of the country before
taking her out. Now she was prepared to go.
Her blush deepened as she spoke, and Mr.

Denys read her feelings at a glance. She
had been distressed by the incident of her
mother's letter, and was in a sensitive mood,
vibrating at a word, at a tone in his voice
even.

He turned to his sons : " Come up through
Ransome Wood to the Three Beeches, and
bring with you something to eat and drink.
It is a pretty knoll, Delia, and you will find
shelter from the sun nearly all the way. I will
join you presently," he said, and was gone
again as suddenly as he came, averting a
peril  the sight of tears in his young wife's
eyes.

Delia rallied her courage, and inquired of
the boys how far it was to the Three Beeches.
John said a mile, George said two, and they
set off about noon when the sun was hot. It
was a sweltering day without a breath of air
in the woods. Delia wished the' could feel

a breeze from the sea, but she persevered
to the appointed spot, which was on the verge
of Navestock Chase, and had the same glorious
expanse of prospect as she had seen from the
road on arriving.

The harvest was later on these hio-h lands
than in the neighbourhood of Cote, but the
ripe corn was falling before the sickle to-day
in many a long furrow. The boys found for
the lady a good place where she could rest,
and as their father delayed to come they fed
her and themselves, and talked meanwhile of
things past, present, and future, with a flattering
confidence.

There are hours and scenes that memory
photographs in a beautiful aspect. This
drowsy afternoon at the Three Beeches was
one. The distant hills were dim with mist
of heat, and in the silence brooding over the
plain Delia imagined dear, familiar voices.

Georee was observing her countenance :
'what do you hear?" he said.

'' I thought I heard bells. Can you hear
Auidcaster Church bells all this way?"

No. If you hear bells, they are Beauminster
bells. I hear nothing but the
thrumminQ: of some creature in the honor
grass. What is it, John?"

George saw more than he cared to see,
and was sorry for the break in the lady's
voice. John looked up, and the brothers
moved off in search, or feigned search, of
the creature, leaving her to herself for a
little while. When they re-appeared they
had a proposal to make. John was spokesman.


"If you could be up at six o'clock, wc would

ride with you to Auidcaster in the cool of the

morning. There is a beautiful little bay horse

here that carries a lad\-  you might have all
VOL. I. o

the day to rest, and return after the sun has
set."

Delia shook her head. " I am not so
homesick as that," she said between laughing
and crying. " But I do thank you both for
the kind thought." And she did not forget
to tell Cricket when she wrote him that promised
letter.

When Mr. Denys came, he came riding that
beautiful little bay horse that would carry a
lady, and which he said he had brought to
carry Delia back. It did carry her back, by
the bridle-path through the woods and fields,
her husband walking at its head, and the boys
following, twined arm-in-arm lovingly. The
husband and wife did not find much to say on
the road. She was quiet, and he was grave.
It was a retired way, but a right-of-way for all
the world nevertheless, and they had not gone
very far when they met Sir John Herrick and

his eldest son returning from Beauminster to
Danesmore. Delia's face of sudden joy was
like a call to them to stop, and stop they did,
the gentlemen shaking hands, and Sir John
good-humouredly expressing a hope that he
should have the pleasure of finding his neighbours
at home when he went next to Cote.
For ten minutes they halted in a group,
talking with a discursive confusion of a great
medley of things, as Delia perceived when she
came to think it all over afterwards. But it
did her heart good that had felt quite sore
since the morning.

You will see them arain before I do  I
need not tell you what to say," was her farewell
to Sir John.

He gave her a nod full of comprehension,
and threw a glance behind him when he
had ridden on. " If a woman's looks are
to lee trusted, she is happy enough," he remarked

to his son, and his son agreed with
him.

There was a dark blush on the face of Mr.
Denys, and for several minutes, walking at
his wife's bridle-rein, he said no word at all.
Delia had quite cheered up, and was no
longer shy of speaking. She told him that
bene so near to Auldcaster she would
have liked to gO home for a day, for her
mother s sake and Cricket's  nobody else
need have missed her. and asked, would
he let her m the next time he brought
her to Navestock ? He answered that he
would let her go 7iow  had he not said so
before ?

'you know very well, Hugh, that I shall
not accept such a grudging permission. I shall
not go without you," was her rejoinder. Mr.
Denys was pleased with it. His young wife's
people had used him so hardly that he had

begun his married life \vith the angry intention
of keeping her away from them, for
fear, like a child gone to school for the first
time, she might be distracted by thoughts of
home from her new affections and duties.
The danger seemed already inconsiderable,
and Delia's method was persuasive. The
resolution that tears and urgency would
have confirmed and strengthened, her control
and reasonableness absolved him from.
He gave her no promise, but he left
her in hopes that he would not continue
obdurate.

They did not return to the house by
the same way as they had quitted it, but,
submitting to the guidance of George, went
through a picturesquely ruinous waste place
of broken walls clothed with old ivy, where
the deadly nightshade made a purple contrast
with the white bindweed and slinging

nettle all over the uneven round. It was
In the cold north shade, and here were
traces of a moat Imperfectly drained ; for
the soil oozed under the foot, and the
print filled with blackish, dank water. This
was the most ancient part of the house.
The lower walls were blank and grim as
the walls of a fortress ; and hlMi up the
murky windows of the ball-room let In the
reeking moisture, Impregnated with seeds
of death.

*' The curse of malaria must have hunch
about Navestock In Its golden days. One
might catch a fever here. No need of anv
curse besides to carry off the children,"
Delia said, and covered her mouth, remembering
Mrs. Essex-brooch's remark that
had offended her, and esteeming It now a
remark with much reason.
" You ordered this place to be cleared

out  It has not been touched," John said,
looking to his father.

Mr. Denys did not speak ; his silence
seemed to express weariness of speaking.

CHAPTER XIII.

WEARING TO THE YOKE.

Remember that marriage has a morrow, and again a morrow."

Frederica Bremen.

*' Do the duty which lies nearest thee  which thou knowest to be a duty."

Carlyle.

Mr. Denys was never a man for much talk
about things. Delia had discovered this
soon, and having the gift of silence herself,
she found it easy to respect her husband's
taciturn humours.

That evening after dinner the boys vanished
promptly, taking a hint from their father
which the lady did not see. Mr. Denys rose
too  it was not his habit to sit honos at his
wine  and giving his hand to his wife, they

passed Into that miscellaneous den which was
all the withdrawing-room they had. An old
leathern seat, settle-shaped, of which the
pattern stamped In gold was nearly worn out,
had been moved up to the glass door, and
there Mr. Denys cast himself down, motioning
to Delia to sit by him.

Their attitude was sociable, and in the
twilight their silence felt sympathetic. Delia
was yearning to know what had struck her
husband dumb. It was nothing but the
vapour of discontents, the legacy of his dead
past, evoked by the encounter with Sir John
Herrick and his son, and in a little while
her living: breath, a touch of her livlnof
hand, made them away. The present
reigned again.

I am very glad of you, Delia," was his
response to her gentle advances.

'* That is brood. Then tell me what vexes

you  or don't tell me, if it would be better
not put into speech."

Probably it was better not put into speech.
** What are these pretty beads about your
neck  sculptured cherry-stones ? " was the
irrelevant query that came after a pause byway
of answer.

*' Nothing much more precious : I think
they are the seeds of some foreign plant.
Nurse Abby gave them to me when she left
us. She said they were a rosary that she
had from her first mistress, Mrs. Meade
of Updeane. Here is the crucifix;" and
Delia showed it, hidden in the folds of her
dress.

''Ah, it is wrought gold, very curious: old
Norman work." Mr. Denys fingered it, and
let it drop, thinking, perhaps, of something
else.

There had been mention of diamonds

between them for Delia ; she wondered
whether this was In his mind.

The next morning after breakfast Mr.
Denys invited his wife to ride with him,
saying that he wanted to take her where
they coukl not drive, and farther than she
could walk. " I want you to see what I am
lord of here," he explained, and Delia made
haste to be ready and go.

The day was cooler than yesterday. There
had been a sharp rain in the night, and
vegetation was refreshed. The atmosphere
was clear, and the towers of Beauminster were
greyly visible on the horizon. But it was
not views or far, fair prospects that Mr.
Denys was come out to see with Delia today.
They left the beaten roads, and
travelled across the fields from point to
point as the crow flies, through gaps

of hedges sometimes, and sometimes by
gates badly In want of mending with new
ones.

Have you ever followed the hounds,
Delia ? " Mr. Denys asked once when the
little bay horse and she had pulled cleverly
through a battered fence with a ditch at the
farther side.

No. I don't think I should have the
courage," Delia said.

You have courage enough. But, perhaps,
you don't care for sport ? "

I think it Is cruel for ladles. We had a
rough little pony or two at home between
our boys and the rectory, and they often gave
me a canter on the Stray. It Is pleasant
riding on Auldcaster Stray."

Mrs. Essex-brooch hunts all through the
season."

Don't bid me copy her, dear Hugh. I
can ride, but I was never passionately fond
of riding."

*' I am sorry to hear that. You must ride
at Cote, or often stay at home. I had that
little bay horse broke on purpose for you,
and Mrs. Essex-Brough has taken pains to
bring him into perfect training. His action
is very fine and his mouth capital. You
must try to like him  he is yours. What
will you call him ? "

'you are very good to me, Hugh. What
shall I call him ! Let me consider  I will
call him Phoebus."

Delia was grateful for her husband's oift, and
amused him by putting Phoebus through his
paces. '' I shall not teach him any antics ; he
has too much solid merit," she said, and the
next minute they were careering at accelerated
speed down a green slope, at the bottom of

which was a low hedge of quick that Phoebus
skimmed as lightly as a bird.

It is warm weather, my wife," Mr. Denys
said, overtaking her at his leisure. '' Don't tell
me that you are not fond of riding."

They went on, companionably silent, passing,
now and then, near a farmstead or a group
of cottages, all more or less picturesquely in
need of repair, but halting nowhere until, on
rounding a half-grown plantation of spruce,
they came full in view of a house that it
had screened. It was the Warren House, an
isolated dwelling set in the midst of the fields,
that had no approach but by a rough cart-track.
Mr. Denys had given it for a shelter to
the man who had contested his title to Nave-stock
 to Ralph Denys, otherwise Wayland.
Cousins they were called.

Thatch was its roof, where the stone-crop
grew in golden cushions, and rubble were its

walls, white-washed, and stained with russet
lichens. In front lay a small garden exhaling
all manner of sweetness, and at the foot of the
old walls was a vigorous growth of young
plants straining upwards to cover their
bareness.

Very busy in this garden, and to all appearance
happily busy, were three persons, and
one looking on  the workers a woman and
two girls, not working-people born, but workings
with a will, as emigrants cast on a strange,
barren shore might work on a hopeful day.
The one standing idle was a mano



For a minute and not looser Delia saw
the three stooping and moving amongst the
bushes, then the man turned, straightened
himself, and came towards the gate, taking
off his straw hat to the lady with a sullen
courtesy.

Good morning. Cousin Ralph," said ]mr.

Denys. '' Good morning," said the other,
and the two shook hands, but scarcely Hke
men ivho are friends. At a shorn from Mr.
Denys the woman and girls approached, and
he named them to Delia as his Cousin
Ralph's wife and daughters. They had been
gathering fruit, and the younger girl held
up her basket of plums, ripe and purple,
tempting the lady to eat. The elder stood
at gaze, a finger on her lip, only wondering
and perhaps envying.

It was a remarkable scene that Delia
witnessed. She heard the Osiris called Aforehand
DIavola.

Ralph Denys had a visage lean and hard-lined
 the visai2:e of a man with a Grievance
which he lets gnaw at his heart constantly.
On his wife's face there was the reflection
of It, softened by much patience and much
pity. She was not a lady, but she had

some of those graces of nature which nature
distributes without regard to rank. Inditing
her head gravely to Mrs. Denys by way
of excuse for leaving her to the girls, she
drew to her husband's side to listen to what
he was saying. He had begun on his grievance,
of course, but Mr. Denys was not in
the humour to hear it.

Don't hark back on that, Ralph," he said,
with suppressed irritation. " You fought
your quarrel to the bitter end, and left me
but a hungry triumph when all was done.
What am I here  what shall I ever be but
steward of Navestock ? You hate toil and
trouble, and Navestock is nothing but labour
and care from year's end to year's end."

I would have had blood out of it yet ! "

cried the other with a passionate fling. " It

is a poor heart that never rejoices ! Oh-ou

are not like the fine old stock that ate, drank,
VOL. I. r

and were merry, pine who would to nourish
their waste ! "

Mr. Denys turned from him deliberately,
and surveying the garden, spoke to the wife :
'' The flowers have thriven. I trust that the
kitchen stuff, the pease and potatoes, have
done as well ? "

'' Yes, sir, thank you. The seed was all
of the best. We have wanted for nothing ;
but our needs here are few," she said
with a strong cheerfulness that told her
character.

Mr. Denys cast an eye over the girls.
They were dressed in brown holland plainly
braided with white, and wore sun-bonnets of
the same material which shaded entirely their
necks and faces. The mother was clothed
in a similar fashion. Some of the worst
Ills of poverty she was able yet to stave off
by dint of Industry and thrift, and the

younger girl was her willing, effectual helper

Anorel.
< >

And how about a shooting licence ? If
Ralph will carry his gun to levy war on the
ground-game, the pot need never be empty,"
Mr. Denys said, satisfied apparently with the
general results of his inspection.

The wife from her manner would have
deprecated the leave to carry a gun, but
her husband caught at it with cynical eagerness.
" Let me have the licence. Cousin
Hugh, and send plenty of ammunition. When
I carry my gun, I have the false air of a
gentleman still."

Mr. Denys nodded, turned his horse's
head, and, leading the way, beckoned Delia
to follow.

* Poor Ralph has great luck in that good
woman. He would have gone to the dogs
in raging despair long since but for her,"

he said, and gave a sigh to the dreary
presence they had left.

Delia did not feel that she knew this
story, and Mr. Denys was indisposed to
tell it, except so far as his cousin Ralph
was to blame for the pillage that Navestock
had suffered under the lawyers in the
lingering suit that had been between them 
tokens of which were everywhere visible
before her eyes.

They took the rough cart-track from the
Warren House, which, after skirting the
hedges through three fields, merged into a
deep, hollow lane, and joined the high-road
where the first scattered houses of the village
formed the approach to the parish church.
The parsonage was close by, the churchyard
and parson's barnyard being separated only
by a low wall of unmoored stones. They
pulled up.

'' Here is a picture for you, Delia. I
warrant you never saw such a picture,"
Mr. Denys said, and looked from it to
her.

Delia was startled. *' I never did, Hugh,"
she said softly. " Never have I seen so
much poverty in a day as I have seen since
we set out on our ride this morning."

And the poverty is mine," was her
husband's grim rejoinder.

The church was centuries old, and had
stood through many evil days, of which the
present days were not, perhaps, the worst ;
for it was in quiet if it was in ruin. The
gate opened on a pathway green with
moss, and the arrives were lost in the rank
growth of grass. The parsonage was buta
larger cottage with broken, falling thatch,
and half the windows darkened with mouldering
shutters. The villas ale-house was

in sight and a cluster of village houses, all
pictures of a like mean and squalid type.

Delia asked what the clergyman was
about  was there no clergyman ? Mr. Denys
answered that there was a curate-in-charore
who did the best he could, but the divine
was sequestrated. Delia understood what
that meant  a shepherd out of the way, a
sheepfold broken down, and a flock left to
wander.

They rode back slowly to the desolate great
house, passing more and more evidence of
the want of money.

"There is nothing like this at Cote,"
Delia remarked once, on the aspect of an
abandoned farmstead orinoco utter wreck.

o o

There is nothing quite so bad, but there
are things bad enough even at Cote," Mr.
Denys said.

He spoke in a tone and with an air of

making, once for all, a clean breast of
some troublesome fears that were perplexing
him. Delia gazed straight before her,
drawing certain obvious conclusions which
were not the less surprises because they
were so obvious. The events of her life had
changed their perspective quickly, indeed.

Mr. Denys after a short silence went
on : 'M have only Acklam to show you
now  all the greatness I was born to. TJiis
was thrust upon me  Cote and this. And
truly, Delia, I have been none the better
for It!"

Delia turned her face to her husband with
her beautiful look of goodness, and answered
him : " Don't say that, dear Hugh. I am
ready to share every burden you have.
They used to tell me at home that I should
never be happy without power and praise.
This shall be my praise  not to want

diamonds to set me off, but good works
such as the helpmeet of a poor rich man
may find to do."

Mr. Denys thanked her. He was delivered
from a secret anxiety. His countenance
cleared as if a cloud had been lifted.
"It is not a narrow life that is before you,
forego what you may. If I take you at
your word, will you ever reproach me ? You
are Generous, but this is a lomond severe
test. Shall I tell you what It means ? "

'* Not now. Tell me by and by." Delia
remembered how she had dreamt of velvet
robes and coronets, of the world at her
feet, of incense, homage, and cymbals of
applause. 'yet I never cared for those
things in my heart," she said.

Mr. Denys' views in his marriage had
been quite simple and natural. In taking
that yoke upon him he meant to wear it

with a good grace, and In this virtuous,
portionless young lady, country-born and
bred, he had looked to find a grateful,
easy, and submissive yoke-fellow, who would
give him children to be his heirs, guide his
house, and keep him company In the dull
decline of ashe.

For his comfort, she promised to be much
more than this  a tender, true friend and
loving spouse.

In the evening he told her a little of
his fortunes that It was prudent for her to
know. He told her that he had planned
to live as free of Navestock as if it did
not belong to him.

'' You must never let your mind run on
restoring It to Its ancient splendour," he
said, proving that he had made a silent
note of her disconcerted manner on a
former occasion.

Delia blushed as warmly now as she
had done then, but she laughed too, and
said that, indeed, she had no encouragement.

My lifetime will not suffice to redeem
it from debt," he went on. '' Much of the
land is gone out of cultivation, and desirable
tenants are not to be found for farms where
the buildings are falling down. Only Gooden's
land is really well done to. His father had
a long lease, and I have a scheme for granting
other long leases which I expect will
work and bring the estate round in the
course of years. You may see it, but I
cannot. Meanwhile, there is Cote for us to
enjoy, and Acklam if you like it."

Delia was sure that she should like
Acklam : it was in the midst of charming
scenery, and within a drive of town.

Acklam was dear to Mr. Denys for
better reasons than these. " Then tomorrow,"

he said, 'ewe will go into Kent.
There I shall bring you acquainted with
my people  homely people some of them,
but not a knave or a fool amongst them
all."

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. DENYS' PEOPLE.

"Enjoy the blessings of this day if God sends them. . . For this
day only is ours ; we are dead to yesterday, and we are not born to
tomorrow."  Fuller.

Mr. Denys was always at his best at
Acklam. It was his birthplace, and the
old home to him where were rooted the
kindly fibres of early remembrance. He
had broken some of them in his strong
self-willed youth, but they had grown
together again, and had long ceased aching.
If it had been his lot to stay there, walking
in the paths of humble fortune, he
might have lived like his fathers, useful
and beloved, and have died like them,

leaving a good name to his children. But
at the aoe when a man is generous and
impetuous, if ever he is to be generous
and . impetuous, a mirage of great riches
and' 'position had opened before him, and
the sacrifice of a pure and loyal love
was asked in their name. He refused
to make it, and he did right in refusing
to make it. His mother was angry and
he was hasty ; and there was no prudent
counsellor at hand to speak a moderating
word, and bid him temporise.

Everybody blunders, everybody misses
something, but Hugh Denys blundered
more fatally, missed far more than the
common run of men. His bark carried
that precious freight which no money can
buy  if only he had waited for a favourable
wind. But in the sunshine, when
the tide was flowing, all for want of justa

little patience, he cast away his hopes
of a successful voyage, and got amongst
perilous rocks on the shores of an island
out of the main track of ships. It was
not a desert island. He was not solitary
there, not without joys, but he had the
heart of a man, and must have looked
with longing often to the great highways
of the sea where life is adventurous and
full of meaning.

It was a bitter day that brought the
news to Acklam. His mother never looked
the world in the face after.

Not married, not lawfully married,
yet living as man and wife together, my
son and Agnes ? " she muttered miserably.

No plea availed with her to whiten their
sin  she called it their sin  and their sin
was her shame. Her son visited her from
time to time, but she never saw Agnes

any more, nor did she once see his
children.

A paradoxical sort of respect was paid
to Mr. Denys always by a few men and
women who knew what his misfortune had
been. His young wife noticed it first at
Acklam. The clergyman, who was of much
the same age, called him by his name,
and went to and fro in the house as none
but the oldest and dearest intimates ever
do go. This gentleman, with a touch of
confidential enthusiasm, thanked Delia for
being so good to Hugh Denys, and told
her that she would not lose her reward.
Delia was troubled and confused for a
moment, but she did not esteem her husband's
friend the less.

It happened to be true September weather
while they were at Acklam, thick dews
on the grass in the mornings, hot mid-day

sun, and sweet, still evenings. The house-door
stood constantly open upon the garden,
and Delia had a sense of peaceful, easy-life
there. Knapp and Mrs. Brice had
arrived before their master, and the order
of the place went on as if it were always
going. They had quiet dinners with a guest
or two nearly every day  relatives or friends
of Mr. Denys, who arrived from London
in the late afternoon, and left the next
morning in time for business. They impressed
Delia very agreeably, and they were
one and all agreeably impressed by her.
She appeared to them a beautiful young
lady of gentle manners and strong mind,
who did not talk much but listened welland
seemed kindly disposed towards her
husband's people, and his friends before his

marriage.

When they had been a week at Acklam,

Delia was willing, and even glad, that their
stay should be prolonged ; for when they
returned to Cote she understood that it
was to be for the winter. The house was
not large, but it was large enough, and full
of quaintness  a chequered hall, parlours
low and gloomy, with deep window-seats
where you could lie and read, and smell
the flowers, and hear the birds sing, all
in a rural shade and simplicity. There had
never been money to spoil the old house
by way of improving it, but it had been
kept in sound repair, and the old silver,
old china, and old linen were in good condition
for service still.

Everything is as my mother left It, and
as she liked it," Mr. Denys told his young
wife. " Brice wanted new things when her
mistress was alive, but now she says the

old are better  and so do I."

VOL. L Q

'rit would be a pity to change them. If
we were not to live at Cote, I think I could
be contented to live here," Delia answered.

Mr. Denys said he should not like to
put her to that proof. " But it is within easy
reach of London, and if you do not care
for a house there, we may have enough of
its noise and amusements in the season by
going up from this place for a few days
at a time."

Did you contemplate giving me a house
in London ? Oh, but I should like that, and
to be presented ! " Delia cried with an air
of Mistress Pride again.

You shall have what you would like,
then," her husband said quietly.

Mr. Denys seemed the very pattern of
a considerate, indulgent husband. Delia
might have encroached, she might have been
capricious and exacting with impunity, had

that been her humour. But she vas, on
the contrary, perfectly obHglng. One morning
there was a letter by post over which
Mr. Denys cogitated in silence some minutes,
reading it a second time. Then he oave
it to her. It was from " Aunt Alice," Mrs.
Bulkeley, a sister of his mother, inviting
him to brine: his bride to visit her at '' Barn
Oaks."

Delia smiled over the letter, and said :
Take me, Hugh."

Don't imagine from her expressions of
humility that Aunt Alice is a humble person,
Delia. Mr. Bulkeley is a Member of Parliament,
a justice of the peace, and belongs
to the rich fraternity of brewers. Barn Oaks
is one of the few fine old houses left in the
neighbourhood of London, which he bought,
and improved to suit himself He will tell
}-ou that he has spent a fortune on it. If

you are interested, he will tell you every
item of expense."

Delia determined not to be interested,

but she liked well enough oroinor to Barn

O tj o

Oaks. It was, indeed, a very fine house,
and gilded and blazoned in the very finest
taste. Mr. Bulkeley had bought it as it
stood when the family that had owned it
before him fell into decay. In the hall and
on the staircase were their portraits, going
back to the days of the Young Pretender,
concerning whom there was a legend that
he had slept a night there on his last visit
to England ; in witness of which his room
was shown, and the very bed he slept in,
and a likeness of a man in armour that anybody
not embarrassed with authentic memories
of that historical hero might accept as
his.
Mrs. Bulkeley had prepared a delightful

entertainment for her visitors from Acklam
on the afternoon of their arrival  a reception,
with music in the oardcns  at which " the
bride of my nephew, Mr. Denys of Cote
and Navestock," was explained as a granddaughter
of Judge Daventry to the majority
not entitled to claim a personal introduction.
Some of the guests smiled at these asides
f the proud humility for which the lady
of Barn Oaks was famous, recollecting that
rebuke of the judge to Mr. Denys  a winning
suitor in a bad cause  of which she was
probably never informed.

Mrs. Denys was the newest and quite
the loveliest face and figure there. She wore
her wedding dress and hat, and shone conspicuous
in the grace of simplicity, admirable
above envy, with a distinguished repose and
a most charming expression of sense and
sweetness. To her husband's rich kinsfolk

of the City she was as modestly gracious as
the most exacting could wish. She became
a sort of standard and tradition in that society,
which she did not much frequent afterwards ;
and friends at Barn Oaks who saw her on that
day were heard in later years diminishing
the pretensions of succeeding beauties with
the unkind comparison that, beautiful as they
were in their way, they were not so perfect
as Mrs. Denys of Cote.

Mrs. Bulkeley was inclined to apologise
to Mrs. Denys for her company, saying that
there was nobody, literally nobody, in town
in September, but to Delia, whose fashionable
experiences were of the slenderest, there
seemed to be a considerable residue of very
fine people left amongst the crowd scattered
through the gardens. And they enjoyed
themselves. They were not of that rank
and degree to which belong ancestral houses

in the country, but of the upper, moneyed
middle-class whose places of business are
open all the year round. The fashion
of a universal exodus had hardly yet set
in, and though Mr. Bulkeley spent annually
three weeks with the carouse in Scotland
after Parliament rose, both he and his wife
had the courage to avow that their happiest
holidays were spent at home, at Barn Oaks,
when long acquaintances came to stay with
them, and were satisfied with a visit to Drury
Lane, to Westminster Abbey and the British
Museum, In the simple way of visitors from
the country.

The reception in the garden was followed
by a small dinner party, at which the bride
was presented to the best known of her
new connections  Sir Oliver Denys  a stately
and handsome old man who had been
Lord Mayor of London in famous times,

and g-Qt knighted for his hospitality in feasting
royal guests.

Sir Oliver came attended by a lady known
throughout the family as " Cousin Elizabeth
Paul." She was no cousin, but her title
to cousinship was allowed because Sir
Oliver had acknowledged her as his heiress,
and to stand well with him, it was supposed
to be essential to stand well first with her.
She had won her place by the practice of
no low arts. Sir Oliver knew her parentage
when he adopted her at the solicitation
of his childless wife, who had been dead
now some years. As a girl she had given
no promise but of average sense, and she
had grown up into a woman of talents,
wise-hearted and clear-headed, but a sad
little woman to look at, being very small
and deformed. She had a fine head and
pretty features, and her eyes were wonderfully

intelligent and beautiful  so remarkable,
indeed, that it was no uncommon thing for
strangers who saw her but casually to carry
away an impression that she was altogether
a beautiful person.

That was Mrs. Denys' original impression
of her. Her age must have been over fifty
now. She wore her own hair, which was
white as silver and very abundant, and a
dress of grey satin with a profusion of
delicate lace to shroud her deformity. She
took a leading part in the conversation, and
everybody, not excepting Sir Oliver, deferred
to her with kindness and respect. That her
influence was likely to be a prevailing influence
with him appeared evident. Mr. Denys
had praised her to Delia. She had always
taken his part, and she inclined at once and
spontaneously to his young wife, a disposition
that she was at no trouble to conceal.

The next morning she invited Delia to lend
her an arm, and to walk with her in the sun
for an hour by the river. During this stroll
Mrs. Denys learned more of her husband's
early life than it was, perhaps, in the power
of any one else, unless it were himself, to tell
her. He was not communicative except by
chance, when some incident or object touched
a chord of remembrance, and made it easy for
him to speak ; nor had Delia any of that
dangerous curiosity which tempts some women
to search persistently into what is best unknown.
She had been abundantly warned
before her marriage that Mr. Denys of Cote
did not enjoy a general popularity, nor a
general esteem, and the reasons why were
set forth in terms so uncompromising that the
very breadth of statement caused her to doubt
of its absolute truth. Cousin Elizabeth Paul
pave her more liszt.

'* Hugh Denys has great capacity and great
force of character," she said in the manner
of a person who forms her own opinions and
cherishes them. ''He did well at Rugby 
very well  but his father died just as he
was leaving, and a father's hand is missed
at that aee. His mother was a stood mother
till she became ambitious for him in a foolish,
proud wa'. The girl he loved was a treasure.
That was a sad story  a very pitiful, sad
story. Of course, you know it ? "

"Yes, I know it," said Delia gently. "It
is easier to be sorry for both than to blame
either."

I was very sorry for both. It went hard
with him when he would have taken up his
position as Denys of Cote. None of the public
duties were given him to do which provide
country gentlemen with occupation. Then
he had a suit with a neighbour, and won it,

but with a loss of honour. It has always
seemed to me that he was unfairly handled
by the judge before whom that cause was
tried. The law was on his side, and the
judge went out of his way to condemn him
on a question of honour, using some forcible
words of Pericles for the purpose, which
made the elinor the better to be remem-

o

bred."

It was Judge Daventry, my grandfather.
I have always wished to know the truth
about that," Delia said, blushing painfully.

"With those who loved him, Hugh Denys
needed no exculpation, and those who were
prejudiced against him before wanted none,
and would listen to none. The case was
never fully heard in court. Hugh and his
witnesses were examined and cross-examined
with all the power and ingenuity of malicious
suggestion that counsel could brine to bear

against him, and when his opponent should
have been subjected to the same pressure,
he avoided it by meeting half-way the defeat
that he foresaw. Had he dared the ordeal
of the witness-box he would have had
dragged out of him a long tale of petty
tyrannies and sharp practices such as abundantly
justified Hugh Denys in the high-handed
act which he was appealing to the
law to enforce. Sir Oliver was always of
that opinion, and other persons, equally able
to review the case, have said since that
for once Judge Daventry's sagacity was at
fault. And very injurious to poor Hugh his
blunder has been."

'' Some day I will tell grandpa  but
perhaps he would not be convinced. He
would never admit that HuQrh could be
justified in doing wrong in retaliation of
wronor that he had suffered. And thouLdi

I am his wife, it would not be possible forme
to admit it either." Delia spoke with a
vivacity and earnestness that laid open in
her an abstract love of justice, as distinct
from personal loyalty  its commoner form of
manifestation in submissive wives.

Cousin Elizabeth Paul smiled. " But we
do not consider that Hugh did do wrong,"
she said. " But whether he was blameworthy
in that affair or whether he was
not, those who have argued from it that he
is a grasping and cruel man are people who
do not know him. He is masterful, and
he has a long memory for offences, though
I should not call him oppressive or vindictive.
Naturally, as a great landowner, he has much
in his power, but he is not possessed by
that insane love of money which was like
a heritable disease in the elder branch of
his family. The Acklam Denyses have never

made haste to be rich, and there seems no
reason why their moderation should not be
transplanted to Cote with them."

Hugh appears to me kind, and I know
that he is generous, but we may have much
to learn of each other both for better and
worse," Delia replied gently, with an air of
dismissing the subject.

She did not care to discuss the humours
of her husband, nor the secret springs of
his actions, though she was well pleased to
hear old stories re-told in a less hurtful aspect
than she had heard them first. Anything
that was good of him., that was welcome to
her : and as for what was not crowd, if it was
past let it be buried, and if it was a tendency
let it wait to be discovered. She was wisely
afraid of a suspicious habit, and put away
from her resolvedly any thought that might
breed it.

Cousin Elizabeth Paul felt that she had
said enough, and perhaps more than enough,
considering that it was to the wife of Huoh

o o

Denys she was speaking, but Delia looked
amiably on her, and she was re-assured. Her
intentions were pure, and Delia was quick in
deciding that among-st her new connections

O o

whom she must cultivate as friends, Cousin
Elizabeth Paul deserved a chief place.

library y

CHAPTER XV.

SIR OLIVER DENYS AN OUTLOOK INTO THE

FUTURE.

*' By doing good with his money, a man as it were stamps the image
of God upon it, and makes it pass current for the merchandise of
heaven. "  RuTLEDGE.

The visit of Mr. and Mrs. Denys to Barn

Oaks was the first stage in a progress that

they made under hospitable solicitation from

house to house until they had gone the round

of his kinsfolk and dear friends residing

in and near London. Delia treated it

as an agreeable duty. She was in her

element, feted and flattered, consulted and

caressed, and her letters to her mother and
VOL. I. R

Cricket at Auldcaster told of nothing else but
amusement, contentment, and happiness.

Mr. Denys did not care for so much
visiting and fine company, and was perhaps
occasionally bored, longing to be elsewhere.
The hunting season had beorun down in his
county, and that was the season of his delight.
But the end of October had come before
Delia announced herself as being ready to
return home  foreside even then an invitation
to Sayes Court, Sir Oliver Denies' house
out of town. They went back to Acklam first,
Delia with an air of pretty, reluctant sacrifice
only half affected.

'' I perceive that I have married a young-lady
who loves the world," Mr. Denys said,
rallying her.

Yes, Hugh, and to enjoy my life. Now
is the time. Cannot you grow young again
for me ? " was her answer.

Mr. Denys was not without goodwill.
Delia asked when he was Qr-olne to introduce
her to the homely people he had talked of.
Are they not homely enough, these rich
brewers and bankers and merchants ? They
have given you a very warm-hearted welcome,"
he said. Delia was more than satisfied
with her welcome.

"They have, indeed, dear Hugh, and I am
glad they like me. Your people have been
much better to me than mine have been
to you. Mine have not been good to you
at all."

But you have been stood  let the rest eo !
We are clannish, we Denyses of Kent. I am
the head of the family, and you are my wife.
It is our custom to like one another and to
hold by one another. We have been the
bundle of sticks, and here we remain, three
generations living: at once. The curse of

0 o

Navestock will have much ado to scatter and
peel us."

I do not believe in the curse of Nave-stock,"
Delia said, and shuddered involuntarily,
belying her words.

*' The Acklam Denyses were not at its
earning," her husband replied, and ceased
from the subject, noticing that she disliked
and was perhaps afraid of it. He had
never spoken of it to her directly before,
and her allusions he had never taken up.
There had been a tacit avoidance of it, but
by a curious coincidence  or what seemed soit
re-appeared in a later conversation on
the same day.

Sir Oliver Denys drove over from Sayes
Court with Cousin Elizabeth Paul  a things
that he had not done for years. They were
not expected, they were a great surprise,
but a pleasant one, and Mrs. Denys showed

them her brightest face. Sir OHver had
avowed a lively admiration for her, which
Cousin Elizabeth Paul did not scruple to
communicate.

He loves goodness from his very heart,
and when it is matched with beauty and
brains, he cannot find words to express his
sentiments without borrowing from the poets.
He has been quoting Milton all the way
here  ' Grace in her step, heaven in her
eye, in all her accents dignity and love.' "
Cousin Elizabeth paused, not very sure of her
quotation.

Delia laughed and blushed, and was
pleased of course. What tender woman but
is pleased with kind opinions, especially when
they are repeated with a frank endorsement
?

Hugh is in a hurry to be off to his

hunting  we know of old what Hush's chief
joys are," Sir OHver said in reference to his
invitation, which had been declined. " You
have kept him here a month too long, Mrs.
Denys."

Wait a little. He will have his revenge,"
said Cousin Elizabeth Paul.

When they were sitting at luncheon Sir
Oliver begun to tell them of a short autumn
tour that they had meade, Cousin Elizabeth
and he, into Devonshire and Cornwall.
We returned through Beauminster, and saw
Navestock," said he, and sighed as if he had
seen something discouraging.

And what thought you of Navestock ? "
Mr. Denys inquired rather sarcastically.

'' I should like to restore the church and
the parsonage-house."

*' Pray, do what you would like then  I

shall not hinder you. I wish you could
restore the parson as well," Mr. Denys said
again, and now he laughed.

I should prefer to transport him," Stroller
rejoined. " I think he deserves it."

Did you ever see such dismal neglect
and poverty as round that church ? " ]airs.
Denys remarked.

Sir Oliver answered that he had seen as
bad or worse in many parts of England, but
then his life extended a long way back 
into the dark aoes before the era of revivals in
religion. Cousin Elizabeth Paul aiireed with
Delia  she had seen nothing worse, and
could imaoflne nothing worse  she called it a
sin and a shame in a Christian country.

I am reputed very rich, and Navestock
is in a state of beggary," Mr. Denys interposed,
as if put upon his defence. "It was
deeply indebted when poor Ralph and I

beoan fchtinor for it, and before the fioht
ended it was quite stripped and bare. I
have done a Httle planting  a very Httle.
But I shall do more. We have consented
together, Delia and I, to draw nothing from
Navestock, but to hold it in trust for the
next generation, redeeming it as we are able.
It will be a wearisome work. I have moreland
than one man can feel an interest in
strong enough to make doing his duty by it
the pleasure it ought to be. And I cannot
sell an acre." Mr. Denys spoke hardly, as
if in his own mind resenting incompetent
criticism, or warding it off. He got up from
his chair, and walked about with an air of
losing patience, and an angry spark in his
blue eyes.

Sir Oliver was silent, but Delia reached
out a kind hand to her husband, and said
prettily : " Never mind, Hugh dear. The

work will be shortened with me for chief
bailiff."

Bailiffs are all rogues," said Mr. Denys,
but he was pacified, and his gust of ill-humour
blew off with a laugh.

Sir Oliver would talk of Cote next, but he
reverted to Navestock again presently as if
the place were much in his thoughts. He
wanted to be informed respecting the successive
mortgages that had been raised upon
it, and who held them ; and then he wanted
to be informed of the expense of draining
and reducing to cultivation land that had
never been broken up, and of getting into
condition land that had suffered from neglect.
His tone was that of a shrewd man of business
aware that he is ignorant of certain
matters, and anxious to be instructed. Mr.
Denys was but too well qualified to instruct
him.

The talk seemed to Delia very dry and
tedious ; but Cousin Elizabeth Paul, though
she did not join in it, listened as if she was
vitally concerned in remembering each particular
; and once, when the younger lady
would have engaged her on some feminine
topic, she intimated that she had no attention
to spare from that which occupied the
gentlemen.

Suddenly Sir Oliver recurred to the church
and the parish, left at such a cruel disadvantage
bv its defaultinof rector.

"What is the bishop about that he does
not disestablish the reverend rascal, who cannot
live at home for fear of the constable,
and give his benefice to somebody else ? " he
asked  obviously as little learned in ecclesiastical
law as in agricultural processes, though
his notions of pastoral discipline showed the
true touch.

The bishop is powerless to disestablish
him, and the benefice is not in the bishop's
eft, but in mine," Mr. Denys answered.

Then why don't you disestablish him ?"

I am as powerless as the bishop, Sir
Oliver. He Yas an agreeable, hospitable
fellow, able to borrow some thousands of
pounds from his wealthy neighbours, and those
debts saved him. He had not confined his
experiments to simple borrowing, and there
was just a chance that he might be prosecuted
for felony. But his conviction would have
resulted in his deprivation, and he owed a
lot of money. So he was let go, and the
living was sequestrated."

The mammon of unrighteousness stood
his friend indeed ! And who were the honourable
men that sold justice for a small annual
dividend ? "

Mr. Denys did not say who they were,

though neither did he seem to view the
transaction in the same severe Heat as Sir
OHver. Delia knew, and glanced from the
one to the other, not perplexed, but troubled
and annoyed.

I wish gentlemen would not do such

o

things," she said with a flush on her face.
'' How can they endure to sit as magistrates
after, and send poor souls to prison and hard
labour who have robbed, perhaps, for a
shilling's worth ? "

Sir Oliver's approval of Mrs. Denys was
evident to her husband, who came over to
her, and whispered that she was too good
for this wicked world. Delia took no notice
of the private communication, which was
audible through the room, and the momentary
silence was broken by a cheerful note
of variety in the voice of Cousin Elizabeth
Paul, asking Mr. Denys whether he was

cognisant of the fact there were in existence
several lineal descendants of the ancient
family that had been dispossessed of Nave-stock
by Giles Denys of Cote.

Of the Meadess ? Yes, it is very well
known," he replied. " They have stuck
to the county  Updeane Is their place  and
though they are much Impoverished, they
have never sunk below the rank of gentry.
There have been men of hlorh distinction
amongst the Meadess."

'then, Hugh dear, wouldn't It be a fine
thiner to 2:1 ve them Navestock back ? From
what I see and hear, it Is not likely to bring
us either honour or profit," Delia cried out
rather excitedly.

*' That is a bright Idea, my wife ; but you
forget the entail," said Mr. Denys ; and Delia
said, ''Ah, yes, tlicre was the entail."

Sir Oliver had inquiries to make next

respecting the law of entail, and in excuse of
his imperfect knowledge of all such matters,
he said that his experience had been earned
far and wide in the world of merchants.

The curse of Navestock is an old story
that has got into books," he Event on when
Mr. Denys had sufficiently enlightened him.
I remember reading it on board ship when
I was a lad, making my first voyage to
China. We sailed round the Cape then, and
I was rather proud of belonging to a family
who inherited such a remarkable misfortune.
I feel with Mrs. Denys now. I would be
rid of Navestock to be rid of the curse."

Delia had not breathed a word of the
curse, though the secret dread of it was
what had impelled her to speak.

You need not pinch off my little finger,
Delia  sue are not under the curse," said
her husband, one of whose hands she had

laid hold of in her nervous agitation. '' Ralph
Denys at the Warren House is the last in
that black entail  the final scapegoat of the
sins of his fathers  the only male remaining
of Giles Denys' seed, breed, and generation."

'you must never let poor Ralph want,"
Cousin Elizabeth Paul said at Mr. Denys'
ear.

He gave her no answer, and Sir Oliver
began to speak of the Meadess, explaining
how he had come to know of them.

'' It was in the regular course of business,"
he said. '' A young fellow presented himself
at our office on the wharf, well recommended
as a junior clerk. He was a bold, handsome
stripling, and when he was asked
what he could do, he answered gaily that
he could ride, swim, and shoot at a mark.
These accomplishments were of no use tous
; and being told what the duties really

were, he just said : ' I would rather take
the Queen's shillings.' ' Then q-q and take
it said my partner ; and the next news we
heard of him was that he had enlisted in a
cavalry regiment, and was off to India.
Now, that was a lad of spirit."

'' Yes  Guy Francis, the third son. These
are rough times in India, and he has just
been gazetted for a commission," Mr. Denys
said. '' The eldest has been to Australia
and back  he has turned his mind to practical
farming, after hanging about for a year
or two at a loose end. There is another
brother who has gone into the Church.
Their father died some five or six years
ago ; their mother still lives at Updeane.
They have had a struggle to keep their
footing, but they have kept it."

I admire that tenacity  much like our
own at Acklam," said Sir Oliver.

It was inevitable that Sir Oliver Denys'
much questioning about Navestock should
suggest to its over-weighted proprietor the
likelihood that a portion of his unemployed
wealth might be devoted to its relief, but
no pledge to that effect was either given or
implied beyond what had been said of the
ruinous church and parsonage-house.

On their road home to Sayes Court Sir
Oliver again praised Mrs. Denys  her grace,
her dignity, her sweet, wise ways with her
husband ; and Cousin Elizabeth Paul by her
responses deepened his favourable impression.

Good purposes do not arrive at maturity

of a sudden, but that Sir Oliver had that

day determined on a great and good purpose,

Cousin Elizabeth Paul felt sure. And she

felt equally sure that her happiness and

pleasure would consist in promoting it ; for

selfish objects she had none.

VOL. L S

COTE UNDER THE OLD
ORDER.

CHAPTER XVI.

ROCJND THE MANOR HOUSE.

Who is my neighbour ? "
He that showed kindness."

Mrs. Denys' imagination, which had flaQcred
for a while under the frosty bight of disapproval
among-st friends, re-bloomed in the
sunshine of her bridal triumphs amongst
strangers, and she went home to Cote
indulging sanguine expectations of their
renewal and continuance. But the expectations
of a young, energetic, ambitious lady
married to a gentleman of twice her age,
who is not popular in his county, are apt
to resemble the prelude to a rondo  a sweet.

clear melody, a promise of music in a
sonorous chord or two, and then a whirl of
tamely varied sounds, where the tune reels
and falls and sighs, but never sings out
attain in the bright notes it manor at first,
lifting up the heart with joyous, hopeful
aspirations.

At the House with Golden Gables Lady
Daventry, commenting on her grand-daughter's
lively recitals of the gay doings in her
honour amongst the wealthy citizens affiliated
to Mr. Denys, remarked that if Delia
could not have the best society in London,
she seemed prudently inclined towards the
second best, which was, perhaps, a good
thing, and she feared that she might not
find her way more easy to make in the
country.

That will be in part our fault," Delia's
mother said. " But there is choice in the

country too," she added with a sigh. ''If
we do not hear of her at Knowle, we shall
hear of her at Lichfield."

*' Yes, and that will not be to her advantage.
But Delia will never be satisfied to
keep at home. 'Want of company, welcome
trumpery '  that is what she will say."

Lady Daventry's prophecy might or
might not come true, but Mrs. Denys was
far from the temper ascribed to her yet.
She had a great spirit and great patience,
as she had proved already, when the end
was one that her heart was set on compassing.
She understood her position as giving
her social duties to do, of which not the
least important belonged to her visiting-list.
The people who called and left cards
at tl Manor House had their civilities
returned according to the canons of the
politest society. Invitations were accepted,

and in due time invitations were issued and
hospitalities dispensed which gave perfect
satisfaction to the recipients. Mrs. Denys
seemed not to be aware that her guests were
derived less from the families of long standing
in the county than from the floating population
of immigrants for reasons of climate
and economy, who lived in modest retirement,
enjoying chiefly the pleasures of life
that cost nothing. But when she came to
compare the roll of her visitors with Cricket's
roll of the neighbours to Cote of their own
rank, she found some conspicuous omissions.
Mrs. Denys made no sign that she knew
of their existence. It was not in the power
of persons she had never seen to wound
her mind  only old friends could do that.

Sir John Herrick had spoken at Auldcaster
of holding out a hand to Mr.
Denys for his young wife's sake, and Delia's

mother had apprised her in a letter of his
neighbourly intentions. He had intimated
them to Delia herself also, when they met
by chance in the woods at Navestock, and
Delia looked for him with confident expectation
until one day Lady Herrii ck called alone,
walking up to the Manor House from Croft
Cottage, where she was staying for a week
with her married daughter, Mrs. Wilton. She
told Delia that Danesmore was about to be
closed for the winter : Sir John had been prescribed
a good chancre for his health's sake,
and they were going to seek it in Italy  in
re-visiting old scenes. Then she laid down
Sir John's card, and hoped that Mr. Denys
and he would meet on their return.

I wish we were ordered to Italy too,"
Delia, cried out with the momentary petulance
of a shame-faced vexation.

Lady Herrick looked away from her, and

round the beautiful drawings-room, touched
to the heart by that cry which had a
meaning for her deeper than the words.
What a charmingly comfortable old house
this is ! '' she said, still avoiding Delia's
face. "Mr. Denys has vastly improved it.
You have seen my dear Jenny ? I am
sorry to be going abroad for her sake.
Her husband is a confirmed invalid, and
her days drag sometimes. I want you to
be good to her while we are away."

Delia's brow cleared. To have this charge
pleased her. " I will do what I can," she
said. '* Hugh is devoted to his hunting, and
twice a week I have many hours to spare.
Is she fond of a lone walk ? Cote is a
lovely place for walks."

*' I fear Jenny's long walks are over; she
is not strong," her mother said. " Charlie
Wilton anticipates that Cote will grow into

a town before many years. You must get
him to show you his plans  I believe they
are admirable. He is a civil engineer by
profession ; quite a genius in his way, but
thrown out of work, and entirely laid aside
now. He never had health, but Jenny loved
him, and what could we do ? "

What could you do ? you made the best
of it," Delia said, with a piercing sense of
regret that her own people had not done
likewise.

When Mr. Denys heard of Lady Herrick's
visit to his wife, and what she had said in
leaving Sir John's card for himself, he
paused on the news with a downward look
of grave reflection.

Delia, who was watching his countenance,
said : " What are you thinking of, dear
Hugh ? "

*' Never mind," was his answer, and with

a gentle touch on her shoulder he went
out.

Delia sat hushed, the tears flooding her
eyes, but not overflowing. She knew that
he was hurt, and wondered a little that Sir
John had not made an effort to come, then
checked herself with a sigh at the futility of
wondering. Mr. Denys was as much galled
as she was grieved. Some hopes that he
had built on his marriage with her were
not fulfilling themselves, and he referred the
fault to her family. Mr. Luttrell, a gentleman
of Beauminster of the same political
colour as himself, had suggested in the
proper quarter that having such extensive
landed interests in the county, Mr. Denys
ought to be in the commission ; but some
other gentleman of the rival political colour 
Judge Daventry's colour  had answered that
Colonel Hayman, who was chairman at the

sessions, would not sit on the bench with

him : adding that unless they wanted to

bring the law into contempt with the vulgar,

it would be wise not to make men of his

notorious character justices of the peace.

This imputed worse than the truth, but it

had the effect of silencing Mr. Luttrell, and

making Sir John Herrick cautious. The early

and long prejudice against Mr. Denys was like

the mark of the plague on his door-post.

Mrs. Denys let her mother know how

deeply injured she felt by Sir John Herrick's

failing her  what Delia wrote to her mother

was between themselves. She told her that

Mr. Denys resented it, and that she feared

it limit tend to throw him back on his
 >

familiar associates before their marriage ; for
which she should be very sorry. To this
her mother could say nothing but that she
should be sorry too.

Mrs. Denys' fear proved to be well
founded.

Speculative builders with a far sight to
the future prosperity of Cote had repeatedly
endeavoured to set on foot with Old Crump
treaties for land at a low figure, but the
agent had no disposition to deal with men
of this class. What he wanted was the
solid and permanent lessee, gentlemen like
Mr. Essex-Brough who had come over to
Cote with his wife while Mr. and Mrs.
Denys were at Acklam, and had made a
proposal for the purchase of the Glen
House. Mrs. Essex-Brough coveted the
house for its lovely site, and her husband
was willing to pay at once the prodigious
found-rent that the Glen mioht be worth
in half a lifetime. Mr. Denys had held off,
not yet persuaded to let strangers into the
house sacred to his beloved dead, and Mrs.

Denys had offered no word any way. She
wished for neighbours at the Glen House,
but not for these neighbours.

Crump was anxious for the acceptance of
Mr. Essex Brough's proposal as a good
beginning of the sound material progress
that his mind was bent on. It was not in
the squire's power to prevent the owners of
the small houses on the heights from selllno-
their life-leases ; he had only the pull over
them in this, that he could refuse to extend
the original term, which would make it less
worth the while of new-comers to buy out
the native proprietors. Two or three of
them had lately received advantageous
offers, and had come to Crump to hear
what was to be done. Crump had first to
be conciliated, and then he talked to his
master, who was never to be approached
on business.

This was the matter of their discourse walking
together towards the village one morning
at the end of November. The leaves were
nearly all fallen, but Cote was famous for
evergreens, and looking down upon it was
like looking into a vast garden with the
wide plain of the sea beyond. At a turn
of the road where it came full into view the
owner of it all paused and surveyed it. He
was in a heavy humour  an unpropitious, dull
humour.

Let the reign of peace last our time,
Crump," he said, and thrust his hands deep
into his pockets as he gazed about. " We
have done enough for posterity here. We
have paid off the mortgages, and freed the
estate."

*' We have done something, sir. Four
hundred a year  that was all you pouched
at your coming to Cote. You might make

it four thousand, and more than four thousand,
if you would hear advice, and look forward
instead of backward. I wish you could be
persuaded to see Mr. Wilton's plans."

'' You must talk to my wife. She wants
to hurry nothing. She is not in favour of
chancres."

And about the Glen House, sir ? "
Cannot you let the Glen House alone ? "
Crump glanced askant at his master, and
muttered some crabbed incoherencies, to which
Mr. Denys did not attend. It was only a
question of time ; the Glen House could not
remain empty, and if it must have a tenant,
he would have been clad now to brine Mr.
and Mrs. Essex Brough to Cote for the sake
of their company, but he was aware that Delia
did not like the lady. Crump also had found
that out, and was careful how he moved contrary
to Mrs. Denys' influence.

VOL. I. T

Mr. Essex - Brough had travelled when
he was a bachelor. There was scarcely a
famous city or accessible site in the civilised
world that he had not visited. Mr. Denys
had travelled too, and things to talk about
are very desirable in the country where
events are not happening every day. Then
Mrs. Essex - Brough had connections at
Cambourne, and was personally urgent in the
neo-station because she wanted to chase
her locality for that neighbourhood. When
Crump sent her presently a temporising letter,
she got impatient, and wrote to Mr. Denys
himself. Mr. Denys carried the letter to
his wife not altogether displeased to have
that opening.

You might have a worse neighbour. Mrs.
Essex-Brough is not an ill-natured woman,"
he said.

Delia was perfectly gentle. *' If you wish

it, dear Hugh," she replied, keeping her eyes
down on the needlework that occupied her
fingers, and trying, not very skilfully, to
seem indifferent.

'' I do not wish to press anything that
you are set against. But a man must have
somebody to speak to out of his own
house."

I understand that," Delia said, still in
her neutral voice, but she was giving way.

Mr. Denys took a seat near her. *' Listen,
Delia. If Sir John Herrick had shown himself
friendly, there would have been a bright
look-out for us ; but Danesmore leads the
world in the peninsula, and our prospect
is perhaps closed. Essex - Brough is not
liked, but his wife has a heart. When Agnes
was-nursing my poor children she heard that
we could get no ice, and she rode over from
Beauminster to bring us some."

Delia was vanquished. " Then God bless
her, Hugh ! We will have her for a neighbour.
Her loud voice and rouoh manners
shall be forgiven her, because she is a merciful
woman ! " Down went the needlework to
leave eyes and hands free to express a thrill
of repentance. That was Delia. The touch
of kindness made her kin to that strange
lady who in all else was her very opposite,
and opened her home to her with a willing
welcome.

CHAPTER XVII.

NEW TENANTS AT THE GLEN HOUSE.

Life lies within the present ; for the past is spent and done with,
and the future is uncertain."  Antoninus.

Mrs. Denys was not without diplomacy. Sir
John Herrick's aloofness notwithstanding, she
sought the acquaintance of Mr. and Mrs.
Wilton at Croft Cottage, and was prepared
to be as good to Lady Herrick's "Jenny"
as Jenny would allow. Mrs. Wilton was a
sprightly, industrious young lady who acknowledged
no need of anybody else to divert
her when her dear '* Charlie " was at her
command. But many days he was ill, or
out of humour, and then the wheels of life
drave heavily.

These two had married for love, not having-much
else, and before the year was out he
was invalided, and sent to the south coast
to save his life. He thought it scarcely worth
saving, but Jenny did not agree with him,
and after two or three moves they finally
settled down at Cote with a determination
to make the best of it.

Their house and garden were of no pretensions,
but there was a spacious upper
room where Mr. Wilton could sit in the sun,
and count the passers-by on the road below.
On the table was always spread some plan
or series of plans, and on these, and the
greater things he had meant to do when he
was a student, he would descant to Jenny by
the hour together. Jenny listened, and executed
a heap of fine needlework in the course
of the twelve months, and was so excellent
a wife that she did not consciously tire of

Charlie's everlasting grievance against the
law of nature that had cut short his ambitious
flight. But soon she felt a boon in the visits
of Mrs. Denys beyond all hope and expectation.
Mrs. Denys did not want to talk of
clothes, company, and frivolities with her, but
was ready to indulge Mr. Wilton with talk
of his plans, and to follow him with an
Interest that refreshed his spirit even when
It fevered his frame with overmuch excitement.


One afternoon he had out his grand scheme
for the development of Cote, and explained
It to her with an eagerness which Jenny could
not moderate, though she knew that It would
cost him dear. Delia Inquired If Mr. Denys
had seen It. Mr. Wilton said that Mr.
Denys had not, but Old Crump had, and then
he gave Crump a commendatory word for his
sagacity.

"But you don't like his ways, Charlie?"
Mrs. Wilton interposed deprecatingly.

I don't like some of his ways, Jenny.
But if he were owner of Cote instead of agent,
I should not mind serving him as surveyor.
The poor latter has large ideas, and a
capital notion of a road."

Mr. Wilton was too much in earnest to
weigh his words, and Mrs. Denys made no
sign of noting them. But she did note them,
and in speaking to her husband of the plan
afterwards she wanted to know what Crump's
large ideas were. He told her that the chief
of them was probably the adoption of this
scheme of Mr. Wilton, for a new town at
Cote. Delia said they might adopt it when
the time came, but she prayed that it might
not be yet.

It need be never unless you choose it,"
Mr. Denys said. "Not a stone can be laid in

Cote without the leave of me. But I expect
that Wilton will get round you as he has got
round Crump."

The agent always let Mr. Wilton hear
when any opening promised, and he did not
lose an hour in apprising him that Mr. Essex-brought's
proposal for the purchase of the
Glen House was acceded to. Mr. Wilton
reported the event to his wife with as little
delay.

'' And our new neighbours are to be the
Essex-brought, of all the unlikely people in
the world!" cried Jenny, and let her fastidious
tone and a slight movement of her eyebrows
express what more she thought.

Her husband had his eye on her. '' Now,
Jenny, don't make mischief," said he with an
air of. serious warning.

'' / make mischief, [Charlie .- If there is
mischief it will not be of uiy making." The

firm closure of Jenny's lips signified that she
had said her say, and had done for that
time.

The news that Mr. Essex-broach had

o

bought a place at Cote spread. They heard
it at the House with Golden Gables, and
thought it of such evil portent that they said
very little about it. Mrs. Essex Brough was
one of the two ladies to whom the judge
had alluded as having been distinguished by
Mr. Denys' attentions, and having sustained
subsequently a slip between the cup and
the lip.

Immediately on the signing of the agreement
the new owners of the Glen House
came in and took possession. Mrs. Denys
had notice of their arrival one mornings
from Phoebe, who wanted to know what
was to be done with a quantity of beautiful
books and other things that had been sent

up to the Manor House by order of
Crump.

The colour rose warmly in Delia's face :
Put them in the library until your master
comes home," she said, and tried to <yo on
writing the letter to her mother that Phoebe
had interrupted.

But she could not keep her mind fixed.
Her thoughts wandered. She heard feet
passing backwards and forwards across the
hall, and when they ceased, and all was
quiet again, she went down to inspect
these treasures from the Glen House,
which she imagined her husband to have
sorted out from the rest to keep. But she
was mistaken in this. He had entrusted
the task to Mrs. Essex-Brough, who had
sent 4 note with them for him. Delia did
not touch the note, but she turned over the
books, mostly music-books and books of

sketches that told a long story, and filled
some gaps in her knowledge of her husband's
former life.

She had seated herself in his chair, and
was reading the autograph notes in one
of these volumes  a visit to Sicily recorded
in a series of drawings by two hands  when
he came into the room unheard. He saw
how much she was absorbed, and felt for
the moment disconcerted and half displeased ;
but Delia had no thought of offending-and
though she blushed, she said quite
naturally that some of the drawings were
lovely.

'' Yes. Those were by Agnes. George
has her genius," he answered, and, restored
to himself, drew up a chair to look over
the book with her.

She turned a leaf. On the next page was
a sketch of a beautiful cloister, mouldering and

weed grown with an inscription below importing
that there they had been on a
certain memorable, sad anniversary. Delia
continued to turn the leaves, and to make her
own remarks, but Mr. Denys did not speak
again until they came to the end of the
volume, when he said that the colours were
faded, and some of the notes illegible. But
he took the book into his own possession.
Delia reached out her hand for another  a
book of songs bound in scarlet morocco,
one of many.

'' The boys will be pleased to see their
mother's books again, Hugh. Shall we carry
the music-books Into the drawlnor-room ? "
she said, putting a constraint on herself todo
what she believed right.

'* Yes. They used to carol like the lark 
they will make us a merry Christmas. Agnes
had a most sweet voice too. You do not

sing, Delia  why don't you sing ? " Mr.
Denys' interest was not in his question 
he was reading through one of the sons 
a favourite honor  and hearing the echoes of
Aofnes' " most sweet voice " in the well-remembered
melody which he whistled softly
as he read.

Delia answered in her literal way that
she had never learnt to sing, that she had
never learnt to draw.

It needs a gift to sing as Agnes sang,"
he muttered when he had whistled his tune
through  half absently, but showing that he
had understood  what she said.

Delia felt a pang that made her face
glow, but her husband was not observing
her, nor thinking of her. He took up Mrs.
Essex Brough's note, remarked that it required
no reply, and the next moment sat
down and began to write.

'' We will have some music to-night, Delia,"
he said with a sudden animation. " They can
have nothing comfortable at the Glen House
yet  we will send the carriage, and they
can come and dine with us. This is to
bid her bring her music. Will you ring
the bell ? She has a glorious contralto. If
you care for music at all, she will find the
way to your heart."

Delia rang the bell. She was so liberal
a housewife that no two or three impromptu
guests could put her or her servants out of
their way ; and as Mr. and Mrs. Essex-brought
were to be their neighbours, she
was willing to begin at once to be neighbourly
 and the more because her husband
was alive to her prejudice.

'shall we invite the Wilton to meet
them ? They don't care for long notice,"
she said, chiming in with his humour.

No  I don't suppose they would have
much to say to Wilton. They are going
to pull the Glen House about, and to
spend a lot of money, but they will
employ Barry or Wyatt. They might
make Wilton clerk of the works, perhaps,"
Mr. Denys answered, looking up considering.


Delia said no more. She did not think
that Mr. Wilton would choose to be clerk
of the works at the Glen House, but she
would have liked Mrs. Wilton to interpose
between her and the other lady, of
whom she had a certain fear, which was
not jealousy but leaned towards jealousy.

Mrs. Essex-Brough was a woman who
surveyed her sex with a shrewd but not
unkindly discernment. She was well aware
that Mr. Denys liked her society, and conjectured
that when it was near of access

he might seek It oftener than his young wife
would approve  they had been a long while
acquainted, and had many tastes and pursuits
in common. That Mrs. Denys had put on
her war-paint was her amused, silent remark
to herself, on the instant of their meetings.
Her own manner was effusive, and she bent
her face at that angle which invites another
woman's kiss, if kissing her female friends be
her practice. It was not Mrs. Denys' practice.
The pressure of her hand was warm and
cordial enough, but she reserved her lips for
the few whom she truly loved. As for what
Mrs. Essex Brough called her war-paint, that
was not worn by way of defiance, and was only
soft, natural blushes and the white dress in
which she was married  a simple and inexpensive
dress as comparison had taught her
since  but she would have looked as lovely in

calico. Mr. Denys was very proud of her, as
VOL. I. u

Delia knew, and her pretty, conscious graces
were all for him.

Clever women are sometimes tempted to
undervalue one another, and Mrs. Essex-brought's
weakness lay in this direction. The
beauty of Mrs. Denys only envy could disparage,
but this evening she was so quiet and
slow to speak that her guests were confirmed
in their first impression, that there was nothing
in her. Delia was merely on her guard with
persons whose measure she was not yet qualified
to take.

Mrs. Essex Brough sang, not so well as she
had sung once, but still like an artist who hasa
good method and the name and fame of a
singer. Delia had been more moved by less
scientific music. She turned down the lamp in
the recess of her window where she was sitting,
and let the moonlight in. Mr. Denys
looked round, and made her a sign to come to

him, but she shook her head, intimating that
she preferred to be farther away from the
piano.

Mr. Essex-Brouoh had cast himself into a

o

lounging-chair, and lay prone, his head back
and his eyes closed, lost, not in a paradise of
sweet sounds as an incurious spectator might
have imagined, but in a purgatory of physical
pain. Delia knew the expression of pain, and
pitied the grey face. If it had been a good
face she would have said a word, but perhaps
silence was better ; for presently, when his wife
came near, and whispered that she was sure
he was very ill, he snarled, moved his foot
impatiently, and bade her let him alone. It
was a moment of revelations not easily to be
forgotten. Delia motioned to the poor lady
to tale the other corner of her sofa, and for an
instant their hands touched  they were at one
just then.

The next minute Mrs. Essex Brough broke
Into conversation, loud and fast In her habitual
strain. It was about the Beaumlnster society,
which had made her less than welcome. Delia
knew a little of the Beaumlnster society, and
her visitor was sensible soon of being held In,
and her familiarity checked by Mr. Denys.
She was not easily checked. When her spirits
rose her audacity was alarming, and taking next
the society of Cambourne, Cote, and all this
her new neighbourhood, in hand, she drove
through every conventional bar, paying no toll
at all to propriety. She meant to show her
wit, but Mrs. Denys could not or would not
see it. Her aggressive sallies against the
clergy especially astonished and hurt Delia, to
whom her irreverent tone was strange and very
repugnant. Once she rose, and walked away
to the farther end of the room to avoid hearing
what she could not reply to. Before she

walked back again Mr. Denys primed his old
acquaintance with the information that his
wife's ideas were of the orthodox pattern in
morals and religion, including respect for the
Church, and that he was satisfied to have them
continue what they were.

Then their guests said ofood-niorht, and
went home. Mr. and Mrs. Denys stood
discussion them for a few minutes as entertainers
do discuss retiring priests.

Delia said : *' Mrs. Essex-Brouoh makes
herself appear worse than she is, but she
will never be a reproach to us by her
delicate feeling or her high principle. And
I am afraid that she can be a plague of
a woman, Hugh."

A plague of a woman ? Interpret. I
don't , catch your meaning," Mr Denys said
musingly.

I am not sure that I can make it

clear to you, and perhaps It is not worth
while."

You don't like her, Delia ; that is your
meaning," he rejoined. " It is not necessary
that you should see much of her,
and you can neutralise her with other
company when she comes  only remember
that I owe her a debt of charity."
I will never forget that, Hugh."
'' The boys are fond of her. Lingfield
has been a second home to them during
their holidays at Navestock. She has a
vast amount of energy and indomitable
courage  I don't know how she would
endure her life else. Essex Brough makes
it awful for her with the fits of moodiness
that follow his paroxysms of pain. He
suffers tortures  but she knew what was
before her when she committed herself to
that marriage."

I felt she was not happy while I
listened to her," Delia said in a hushed
voice. She was very sorry for a woman
who was married, and was not happy.
She judged that not being happy, she must
be most miserable.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED nV nALLANYTNF, HANSON AND CO.
EDINlifKCM AND LONDON

3 0112 060919732

OF THE

U N I VtRSITY

Of ILLINOIS

S23
P242.

74. BRO/ID STREET, BIRMINGHAM.

Single Subscription-One Guinea per Anni

TIME Allowed FOR Reading

THREE DAYS FOR EACH VOLUME.

Please Return this Book oi a Charge will he made f
 Fetching //.

VOL. II.

OF COTE.

HOLME LEE,

AUTHOR OF " SYLVAN HOLt's Daughter," " STRAIGHTFORWARD," ETC

Have we not all, amid life's petty strife,
Some pure ideal of a noble life

That once seemed possible  and just within our reach ?
We lost it. . . .

But still our place is kept, and it will wait
Ready for us to fill it, soon or late."

Adelaide Proctor,

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. 11.

LONDON:
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO Place

18S0.

wall rights reserved

CONTENTS.

93oofe tfje Ifiiti  Continued.

CHAP.

XVIII. MINGLED YARN

XIX. TWO OR THREE NEIGHBOURS

XX. VILLAGE POLITICS .

XXI. CONFLICTING INFLUENCES

PAGE
I



3S



3300& tf?e Fourth).

THE REDEMPTION OF NAVESTOCK.
XXII. THE MEETING OF FRIENDS
XXI IL THE MEETING OF FOES .
XXIV. AT SAVES Court .
XXV. WITHOUT CONDITIONS ?

XXVI. A Soon AND HEIR .
VOL. II.









124"

CONTENTS.

33oofe tfje Tithe

OLD ORDER CIIANGETH.

CHAP.

XXVII. YEAR BY YEAR

XXVIII. WHICH WILL WIN.?

XXIX. THE ORCHARD

XXX. CROSS LIGHTS

XXXI. COUNSEL  GOOD AND EVIL

XXXII. A GARDEN SCENE

XXXIII. LAW AND GOSPEL

XXXIV. UNDER SENTENCE

XXXV. BEYOND RETRIEVAL

XXXVI. FRUIT IS SEED ,










COTE UNDER THE OLD ORDER

continents.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MINGLED YARN.
i

/

A fame that is wounded to the world would be better cured by
another's apology than his own ; for few can apply medicines well to
themselves."  Ben Jonson.

The establishment of the Essex Brought at
the Glen House was an epoch in Cote second
only in importance to the marriage of the
squire. They were rich people, but disarmed
envy by their readiness to share with their
neighbours the superfluity of the good things
of this world that they possessed. Mrs. Moth,
who had a large family of young people
wanting to be amused, made haste, and led

VOL. IL A

the way in calling at the Glen House  casually
remarking to an acquaintance whom she met
on the road, that perhaps Mr. Essex-Brough
was not a very nice person, and his wife was
a dreadful flirt, but they would entertain,
and she did not see that it mattered. Mrs.
Moth's example was followed. Before long,
everybody had called at the Glen House.
There was no solid, assignable reason why
they should not if they liked. Colonel and
Lady Laura Hayman called, who had not paid
Mr. and Mrs. Denys that compliment ; and
it was soon evident that the new-comers
would give a new tone to the village society,
but whether a better tone was yet to be
learnt. Hitherto everybody had been friendly.
None were so much above or below the rest
as to be left outside the pale. Mrs. Moth
was accustomed to call the society mixed,
but Mrs. Wilton, who took precedence of

Mrs. Moth, had ruled that it would be nothing
if not mixed ; and Mrs. Denys had shown her
practical agreement with Mrs. Wilton by bringing
together all the pleasant people and clever
people she could muster, without too much
regard to their rank and fortune, or whether
they lived in hired houses or in houses of
their own.

Christmas is the season when the elements
of society are fused, and the minor folk
expected some good parties at the two great
houses, in which reasonable expectation they
were not disappointed. John and George
Denys arrived at the Manor House in the
third week of December, and their little sister
arrived with them, escorted as before. Mrs.
Denys met them at the gate, beautiful and
beaming as if she had none but a happy
mother's thoughts of children comlno; home.
She would not crlvc her heart time to ache

for Others at a distance. If she had hoped
for a sight of any of their faces, she knew
now that the hope was fooHsh. She belonged
to another family, and her place was by
another hearth, amidst a very different company,
who, except one or two, were strangers
yet.

They had a riotous dinner the first evening,
for Mrs. Essex Brough was Invited by special
request of the boys, and little Marie-Irene
claimed her seat next her father, and led the
conversation with a shrill. Incoherent volubility
that incited the big brothers to peals

of laughter.
< >

Snow was a rare visitation at Cote, but
the starlit, dark sky and clear, keen air were
seasonable, and tempted nearly all of them
out-of-doors afterwards. Delia would, indeed,
have found herself alone by and by but
for Marie-Irene, and even she had a longing

to go with the rest, which was not quelled
without a bribe, and a promise of something
sweeter to come.

Delia had been warned of a surprise preparing
for her, and presently from the Dutch
garden under her window rose all their voices,
sineinof In unison an old German carol. And
to this music she was treated every night
they spent at home until Christmas was
turned. It was delightful in its wav, but
with a strain of melancholy. It always
set her dreaming of the last Christmas at
the House with Golden Gables, which she
had ceased to call koj)ie  a Christmas that
had been spoilt with vexed oppositions and
idle resentments. She knew that they would
talk of her, but while she could realise a complete
picture of them. It grieved her to think
that they could not in their mind's eye see her,
nor how she was surrounded  or solitary.

Yes, solitary. Though everybody was kind
and loved her, everybody was busy, and
had attractions away from her. Now she
learned what the graceful accomplishments of
life are worth, a thin or that she had never
quite realised or laid to heart before. Mrs.
Essex Broueh knew so much, could do so
much, was so animated, various, and gay
with her singing and music, her painting and
play-acting. She could dance so long, could
ride so far and so fast, that the boys admired
her exceedingly, and even thought a little
scorn of their father's handsome young wife
because she did not care for waltzing, and
could restore Phoebus to them without a token

o

of being sorry. That was Delia's goodness.
Unless she had resigned Phoebus, both of
them would not have had a mount at command,
which would have much diminished
their happiness. It made her glad to see

them enjoy themselves at Liberty as only
boys do, to see them ride off with their
father for the supreme pleasure of a day's
hunting, or go out sailing with the Todds
and Jack Blythe to try their skill against
the sea-birds that built by thousands in the
ledges of the cliffs. To see them troop away
to the Glen House carrying off little Marie-irene
was not so cheery, but she recollected
what the Glen House was to them, and that
the sones she heard at niorht must be
practised.

I wish I could take a part with you 
I wish I were more amusing," she said to
her husband once when they were leaving
her soon after breakfast.

He did not seem to hear  little Marie-irene
was creatine a great bustle  and she
could not help feeling that he was a trille
negligent just then. The demand for strength

had come again in an unexpected form. Not
to be fanciful, not to be exacting, was her
present act of discipline.

They are his children ; they will not
be with him so very long. It is small and
selfish to grudge them to one another," she
said to herself.

She watched them go from the window
over the door, and waved her hand to
George caracoling on Phoebus. Mr. Denys
looked back, and was not without his reflections.


Then a message was brought from the
Glen House to let her know that the young
people would not return until the afternoon.
'' If they do not return, neither will he," she
thought, and when the luncheon-hour was
past and he had not come, she went out
into the village alone to find something for
herself to do.

Delia carried no heartache out of doors
with her. She was too strong and too

o

buoyant to repine long under any pressure
less than pain, or positive calamity. Fora
little while the idea of Danesmore as a
house shut up had weighed upon her, but
it served as a lesson to multiply her resources,
which she was putting now into
daily practice.

Nothing was further from Mr. Denys'
thoughts than to be negligent of his young
wife, but he loved a change of company
and conversation, and the proximity of Mr.
and Mrs. Essex-Brough at the Glen House
was sure to lead him to the resumption of
many old ways and habits. He was profoundly
impressed by some beautiful traits
in Delia's character, but not perfectly sympathising
with them, he had fallen into a
misconception of her motives, and behaved

as if, like saints and other very good people,
she chose sacrifice because it was sweet to her.
Even so, he might sometimes have judiciously
interfered with her enjoyment of sacrifice :
Delia would have acquiesced in his overruling.
But just now there were several
near who diverted his thoughts, who preferred
pleasure to denial, and absorbed their share
of all that was going, and much of her share
too.

'' Mrs. Denys will have nothing to do with
our cruel sports and idle pastimes. She is
given up to good works. We are bound
to take pity on our old friend, Hugh Denys,"
was Mrs. Essex-brooch's view and version
of their frequent arrangements.

Mrs. Moth remarked that Mrs. Essex-brought
had a nice way of putting it  too
nice for her belief.

There was no miserable penury at Cote  

it was beyond the stress and competition of
the world  but there was abounding ignorance
and small desire of useful knowledge. As
the squire's lady Mrs. Denys felt that it washer
vocation to introduce it, and with a general
permission from the squire, she had set to
work with salutary vigour, and was trampling
on some venerable customs in the performance
of her self-imposed task. She loved
to rule, and her law was likely to be the
law of kindness, but she was young, and
a new-comer to the place, and her active
virtues were imperfectly appreciated yet by
the supine authorities to whom they were
a rebuke. Old Crump, the agent, was in
two minds whether to like her or not. Crump
was familiarly called old not because of his
age but his decrepitude. He was crippled
with rheumatism, and hobbled always in
pain, helping himself with two sticks. His

clothing was that of a thrifty mendicant to
whom a charitable stranger might have
offered sixpence. He prowled about, always
looking on the around, and muttering to
himself. When he lifted his head he showed
a surly, sagacious visage, shorn, perhaps, once
a week ; thick, grizzled brows depressed above
a pair of keen, suspicious eyes ; a forehead
massive as a wall ; great pendulous lips, and
lank fringes of grey hair. There was power
in his face and a humorous craft which Mrs.
Denys shrank from. She had been amazed
to find the management of Cote committed
to such hands, but when she ventured to
suggest that he should be pensioned and
superseded by a more suitable person, Mr.
Denys answered that he knew none more
suitable,  Crump was still up to his duties,
and forty years of devoted service constituted
a claim that he was bound to respect.

Mr. Denys had inherited Crump's services
with the estate. His former master had
taken him Into his employ as a cheap
servant whose necessities would make him
compliant The last of the old Denyses had
been strong for evil in the conviction that
he could never be as poor men are  bound
to labour for his bread and for little lapses
from Integrity liable to the rigour of the
law ; and long before Mr. Denys succeeded
to his kingdom the process of moral disintegration
that a servant suffers under a
greedy, mean, and wasteful master was
accomplished In Crump. The agent transferred
to the incoming squire that sort of
devotion to his interests that had been
exacted by the squire departed, and Mr.
Denys, perplexed and cumbered with other
matters, let him do unquestioned and uncontradicted.


Crump was quick to feel that Mrs. Denys
did not like him, but he took her measure
fairly, and did her almost justice, recognising
in her the courage that it would have been
unsafe to ignore. He had the credit of a
rare tormentor amongst the feeble folk, but
he was much too prudent to try a fall with
his master's young wife by indulging in merely
vexatious hindrances. What he loved was
the solid fruits of power.

Mrs. Denys had acquiesced in her husband's
dictum without a word. Though she felt foro



Crump that repulsion which some higher
natures have for the lower, she gave him
as the man in office his due of civility,
which he repaid with elaborate deference.
Soon the lady learned that she could no more
afford to despise the old agent than he could
afford to defy her. Each tacitly acknowledged
in the other that force of character

which makes Itself everywhere to be respected
or feared. Crump was the skilled
tool of good work as well as bad, and Mrs.
Denys could not long resist the conclusion
that he did on the whole such work as he
found to be acceptable service. There was
a smarting humiliation In this which had
goaded her to tears before to-day. But it
was what she had to-bear  this learning,
for a surety, that her husband had made
power and not right his measure of justice
often ; and this afternoon she heard by
accident one of those corrosive sentences
of condemnation that bite into the memory
never to be effaced.

No man could serve Mr. Denys of
Cote twelve months, and not get a bad
name, sir."

The voice was Crump's voice, in rejoinder
to some rebuke or taunt of Mr. Clarofes.

o

Mrs. Denys turned out of their way confounded.
They saw her, both of them, at the
same instant, and separated with as much
precipitation as the lady had escaped.

Mrs. Denys went directly home again,
and shut herself in her boudoir adjoining
the room where Phoebe sewed, and was
singing then to herself while the house
was deserted. None of them had returned
who had gone out together in the morning,
and the early winter twilight was creeping
on  the time and atmosphere for sad cogitation.
Delia wondered why a servant, loyal
according to his lights, should emit so
bitter a cry against his master. She
remembered certain words of the judge
that had stung her cruelly when they were
spoken, though she did not believe them.
She believed them now with a tingling of
shame and pity. The recollection carried

her back to the House with Golden Gables.
She saw Cricket crouching over his book

o

in the bay-window, and glancing up, now
and then, with a wise sentence for anybody
who had ears to hear. She heard the
continuous click of her grandmother's 
in the dusk, and the swift sound
of her mother's pen running on by the glowworm
light of a little lamp in the trivial
daily record for her husband which dear
love made momentous. Phoebe's monotonous
sweet chant mingled with her musings,
which wavered to and fro with sorry
regrets. Suddenly the servant came in to
light the room, not knowing she was there,
and surprised her with the cloud of tears in
her eyes.

*' Dear mistress, what ails you that you
fret ? " Phoebe said, standing before her 

a square, lean figure, a homely face of the
VOL. n. B

true peasant type. Mrs. Denys could have
no effectual concealments from her sagacious
little maid.

'' Nothing, Phoebe. I think the world tires
me sometimes  that is all."

There's no cure for that complaint, unless
it be bending one's mind more to one's duty
and loving more."

'* And loving more ? You should be a
preacher of the Methodists, Phoebe. I wish I
had your heart. You are humble and thankful.
You toil through your round of reiterated
duties as holy service."

My duties are sweet and easy  I desire
no better than I have. There are blessings
we don't stop to count when we have had
them always  food and fire, a roof over our
heads, and a warm bed to lie on. To go
amongst the poor, and see what it is to be
without them, to see trouble that hurts worse

than ours, is a sermon that don't sHp soon
out of mind."

Have you seen such trouble, Phoebe ?
Mr. Clarges says that there are no very
poor people here."

There are no very bad poor people
here, but there are some very poor. It is
the clergyman's way to bid labourers be
content with their wages, and to help them
a bit when they fall sick. Help can never
come amiss in time of sickness even if
wages be fair, but wages are not fair hereabouts,
and some of the homes are dreadful.
The parish doctor could tell. He's been the
poor's best friend."

Phoebe s tone was become the tone of an
uncompromising advocate. Mrs. Denys was
not thoroughly acquainted with the village
yet. She had seen what looked like idleness
and thriftlcssness there, and was still

disposed to lean back on Mr. Clarges' report.
But Phoebe having begun to say, said on,
and assured her mistress that would not do.
Mr. Clarges was a kind and pleasant gentleman,
but one of the old '' yea-lord " parsons
who found it easier to give his half-crown
and preach patient forbearance to the poor
than to exhort the rich against covetousness
and extortion. Mrs. Denys did not arrest
Phoebe's freedom of speech, but asked, when
she made an end, how she came to be so
prejudiced.

'' I belong to the Blythes at the Orchard,"
Phoebe said, speaking as if that was answer
and explanation enough.

Mrs. Denys recollected her husband's note
on the Blythes  " A good stock, but puritanical
 a perpetual reproach to their squires,"
and looked at her sturdy little maid with
a new discernment. Phoebe's face was expressive

of nothing but sense and the simplicity
of goodness. At another moment
her mistress mioht have recommended her
to order herself more lowly and reverently
to her betters, but she understood now that
such advice was best omitted. Phoebe was
of a robust character. She went to church,
a born Dissenter without knowing it, her
opinion of parsons an opinion by ancient
inheritance. Mrs. Denys inquired for some
particular instance of the suffering through
poverty that Phoebe had made allusion to,
and Phoebe mentioned a family that had
come to Cote since Michaelmas, to work on
the Manor Farm, a family of six.

And poverty is not the worst of their
misfortunes. They have been hardly used.
The man was committed to Beauminster
'sizes last summer for what he'd never done.
He lost his harvest, and was put out of

prison at the beginning of winter. They
came here beggared ; for nothing was given
him  not so much as to pay his way home to
where he'd worked before, nor any warrant
that he'd been falsely charged."

But that seems very unjust. I think you
must be misinformed, Phoebe. I will ask 'Mr.
Denys to look into it."

*' The master is not a magistrate," Phoebe
said laconically. '' The man's a tenant of his
Mr. Crump takes the rent."

Mrs. Denys was about to speak again
when there was a sound, a mellow whistle
from below. It was her husband returned
alone, but the rest were not likely to be
far behind. Delia, the cloud In her eyes
gone, ran downstairs to receive him.

Mr. Denys came forward and kissed her.
She said : *' How the boys at home would
lauch to see me answer to a whistle ! Mistress

Pride coming at call like any other humble,
affectionate creature ! "

So she ought, an' she love me," said
her husband, and laughed with an intent
look in her eyes.

Delia blushed, conscious that they might
show tears, and honor on his arm. There
was no action in this. When he was there
it came to pass somehow that her mind
let go the thoughts that had vexed her in
his absence. He did not like tears, and
she knew that, and would have hidden them.
He began to ask where she had been, and
what she had done since the morning. She
told him a part, but not the whole, and
that she did not tell him all he dressed from
the shy, abrupt avoidance of her manner,
and her haste to quit the subject. She
been to ask where he had been. He told
her that Georee and he had been to a

meet of the harriers at Marshleas, and had
ridden nearly as far as Danesmore.

As Mr. Denys talked he drew his wife
into his private room where he saw people
on business, and asked again how she had
amused herself since the morning. He did
not suspect her of falling into mischief, but
her manner provoked a suspicion of some
sort, and he had probably compunctious
visiting for having left her all the long
day alone. Now Delia had argued the case
with herself, and had decided that it was
wiser if possible never to let her husband
know when any old matter to his disadvantage
was brought before her. If she had
been practised in evasions she might have
succeeded, but this time she failed signally.
Her face burned, and the tears, not chased
far from her eyes, re-filled them. Mr.
Denys' countenance was overcast. Happily

for them both, Delia was not a coward ;
and when she saw that there was no chance
of deceiving him for good, she took her
course with courage enough though falteringly,
not being sure of his humour, which
was new to her.

Hugh dear, don't be angry if I am
sorry because of some things that you did
before we were married. I seek nothing out,
only I see and hear. Let us be friends 
we shall do better together."

"What sort of things?" said Mr. Denys,
and his countenance cleared. *' Not capital
offences since they are so easily condoned."

Delia was dumb for a minute. It struck
her that her husband did not know 
absolutely did not know  on what a low
level of esteem he stood amongst his neighbours
and dependants, or perhaps he knew
more than he cared. But this thought would

not bear dwelling on in his presence. She
recurred to the theme of the day's sport.
She was always eager for news when Mr.
Denys had been where men congregated for
business or pleasure ; she was always hoping
something, she hardly knew what, but something
that would olive greater brightness and
elevation to the scenery of their daily life.
He read her customary expectation in her
looks, and would fain have gratified it, but
he had nothing to tell that was likely to
gratify her; and the noisy advent of John
with little Marie-Irene released them from a
difficult moment.

CHAPTER XIX.

TWO OR THREE NEIGHBOURS.

"Men's thoughts are much according to their inclination ; their
discourse and speeches according to their learning and infused opinions ;
but their deeds are after as they have been accustomed."  Bacon.

There was company at the Manor House
that evening, and Mr. Clare-es was one of
the guests. No more genial guest ever sat
at table, nor guest better bred. He let croon
principle the things that were too hard
for him, and continued softly on his undisturbed
way. He had been at Cote nearly
as long as the squire himself. His presentation
to the living was Mr. Denys' first act
of independent power. He had heard him
preach, and had liked what he said ; and

they had been on terms all through the
difficult middle period of Mr. Denys' life.
The clergyman had the habits of a quiet
country gentleman, with a broad streak of
the heathen philosopher and some blending
of the theological virtues. He was not a
profound scholar nor a learned divine. To
compose a sermon was ever an effort with
him, but he did not shirk the task, and his
parishioners listening to him on Sunday in
the pulpit, heard precepts that squared very
fairly with what little they knew of him in
their work-a-day life.

Formerly, when Mr. Clarges was challenged
to render a reason for his more than
tolerance of his patron, he would move
about with slow, deliberative step, and answer
that he had, perhaps, no choice  no choice :
Mr. Denys had a repentant mind, and was
freely disposed to repair the wrong he had

done, but the poor lady, who was a Catholic
and not English, declared her conscience
easy, and refused to be other then she was.
Their children were brought up in her
religion, and given to know that they could
not inherit their father's possessions. Mr.
Denys loved his children, no man more  let
those who judged him be satisfied that he
was not going unpunished.

Not many critics of the rector's conduct
troubled him a second time. The case was
exceptional, and it was well seen that the
offenders paid to the uttermost farthing the
social fine they had incurred by their transgression
of conventional law.

The squire and the parson were friends
still, and likely to be better friends since
the squire had brought home a legally
married wife of a good county family ; for
Mr. Clarges was of the county himself, and

had a pretty property at Bourtree, which
made him independent of his benefice, and
grave him a standing among-st the small landed
gentry. Mrs. Denys had taken to him with
implicit confidence. Like the majority of
men and clergymen, he probably found it
easier to deliver a heavy sentence against
wrong-doing in the abstract than to tell his
neighbour face to face that he was dolno
wronor. But he had so much left of the
public-schoolboy tone, that, Phoebe Blythe's
opinion notwithstanding, Mrs. Denys believed
and was sure that he would have courage
and spirit to speak up for fair-play if ever
he saw a friend under temptation to give fair-play
the go-by. She could have no comfort
in him as her clergyman else.

Crump's hard words had not ceased to
ring in Mrs. Denys' ears, and there was
a momentary self-consciousness in her air

when Mr. Clarges was announced, but his
manner was simply cordial, and showed no
trace of painful recollection. Just before he
appeared, Delia had been telling her husband
of those poor people whom Phoebe had
mentioned, and inviting his interference to
obtain some redress for them. Mr. Denys
did not see what he could do. The case
was referred to the clergyman, who was
cognisant of it, but did not see what he
could do any more than the squire in getting
justice for the man. Both the gentlemen
seemed to acquiesce in his misfortune
as final, but Mr. Denys perceived from the
surprised, indignant lifting up of his wife's
head that her next words would be in scorn
of their helplessness, and he made haste
to mollify her.

Send the judge a letter  tell him there
is a flaw somewhere in his fine leiral

system. You may bid Crump remit the
rent for this year, and let Mrs. Brice see
whether they have beds to He on."

Mr. Clarges had taken care of that, and
had given them fuel. " They have had help,
but help to be of permanent service needs
to be more thorough where the destitution
is so complete. Three of the children are
very young, and they have no milk. I wish
one of our beneficent ladies would set up
a parish cow. That enterprise might befit
my good sister Nancy  I must propose it
to her." Mr. Clarges was pleased and
amused by his spontaneous suggestion, and
proceeded to view it all round.

Mrs. Denys was eager to put it in practice
: "Will you give me a cow, Hugh ?" she
said on the instant.

'' To be a nursing-mother to the wean-lines
? Yes, I will give you a cow, two if

you like, the best that can be bought with
money."

Mr. and Mrs. Essex-Broueh were announced.
The lady had caught the tail of
Mr. Denys' sentence, and wanted to know
the object of his bounty. It was explained
to her. '' You are going in for charity, and
the amelioration of the clods," she said ina
voice and with an accent that made it
quite superfluous to add that charity and the
amelioration of the clods were not in her
line.

Don't believe her, Mr. Clarges. We know
that she has a heart," Delia cried out,
intercepting the clergyman's cold glance of
disapproval at his new parishioner, whom he
met now for the hast time. Later they
became friends.

Mrs. Essex-Brough stared. Her husband'

looked down with a short laugh of disagrees
n. c

able meaning. The lady reddened, and as the
door opened again to admit George and John
she turned to talk to them, and perhaps to
cover a degree of confusion that was most
unusual in her.

The arrival of Sir Thomas Britton from
Marshleas, accompanied by his eldest daughter
as her mother's representative, and of Mr.
and Mrs. Midas from Cambourne, made the
party complete, and they went to dinner.

Mr. Denys cared for no company but his
intimates. Delia loved to exercise hospitality
for the show and pleasure of it, but she had
begun to feel rather oppressively that there
was a sameness in the society that gathered
at their table, and, putting aside the rector,
who was a standing dish, that the best of
it was not up to the intellectual level of the
society she had been used to at Auldcaster.
Sir Thomas Britton was a lean and hungry

fox-hunter, who contributed nothing besides
his presence to a feast ; and though his womenkind
were good and comely, they were not
lifted with tongues. Mr. Midas was a stout,
dark, middle-aged man, short-sighted, pompous,
and vague, except at rare moments when his
visage was lighted by side-long glances of
bird-like cunning.

He was lately married to a very young
lady, very pretty, lively and line, whose pardonable
weakness it was to make a rod of
him  concerning Which weakness Mrs. Essex-brought,
his cousin, remarked what a goose
she must be. She was another of those poor
young ladies who had had what Mr. Denys
called the great luck of marrying a man of
property, and no doubt she was grateful.

We hate each other, but we are immense
friends," Mrs. Midas on her part confided to
Mrs. Denvs, alludiuLr to her husband's connections

at the Glen House ; but the confidence
did not engage Mrs. Denys to ratify a
friendship with the squire's wife from Cam-bourne.


Sir Thomas Britton was an honest sort of
gentleman, and Delia liked him as well as any
of Mr. Denys' long associates in the neighbourhood.
The old fox-hunter had lately started
a large company with the round assertion
that Mr. Denys had ito vices, and a pluckier
fellow never crossed a horse. Sir Thomas
had a right to his opinion : he had known
Mr. Denys in the hunting-field and in his
own house for a score of years ; and Lady
Britton was one of the few mothers of county
families who had not consigned him to perdition
for keeping faith with a woman who
was at his mercy. There were people who
rumoured that Lady Britton had daughters
of an age to marry  the same people who

rumoured at the same date that Miss Charlotte
Deane Foxe had a heart to give away, and
Mr. Denys was a bachelor. Mrs. Wilton
had leisure to cultivate a knowledge of secret
history, and was rather prone to diffuse it.
She found Mrs. Denys genuine, and would
have given her a quiet intimation, here and
there, of facts that she did not suspect ;
but at her first attempt Delia covered her
ears, crying out that if she must live in a
world of meanness she would rather not
know it. In truth, Delia missed daily, and
more and more, the sweet and wholesome
faces of Grace and Emmeline, her cousins,
but she was not disposed to fill the vacuum
with faces less agreeable.

CHAPTER XX.

VILLAGE POLITICS.

To mortal men great loads allotted be ;
But of all packs no pack like 'poverty."

Herrick.

These incidents and others too trivial to
enumerate, yet which collectively were a great
force, directed Mrs. Denys' mind  never to
be at rest again without worthy occupation 
to the systematic study of her duties as the
squire's wife of Cote. That terrible verdict
which Crump had pronounced against her
husband lost none of its severity with thinking
on. Of course she did not quite believe
it, and also, of course, she was careful not
to betray to the agent any sign that she had

heard It. Crump was afraid with a craven
fear until Mrs. Denys had once spoken to
him after, and experiencing on that occasion
no chill of fresh resentment In her behaviour,
he took heart, and began trying to lay a
foundation In her confidence.

His first opportunity was by avowing his
kindness for judicious planting, and doing a
bit on her suggestion, that a certain straight,
shadeless lane runnlnof east and west mlorht be
made beautiful and delightful in summer if It
were planted as an avenue of lime-trees. The
lime-trees were set in the hedgerows in the
course of that season, and not one of them failed.
The agent knew well what he was about In
woodland matters, and was not above being
gratified by Mrs. Denys' approval. In a little
while they were seen walking up the village
together, by appointment evidently, for Crump
wore his Sunday clothes. After another little

while he wore those Sunday clothes everyday,
and got a new suit for church-going
purposes. Some of his neighbours remarked
that he was turning over a new leaf; other
some rather invidiously hoped that he would
not have the lady's ear as he had the
squire's.

One morning Mrs. Denys fell in with the
agent near the inn, and invited him to take
a turn with her across a grass field, a shorter
way to the rectory, where she had an errand,
than by the road. It was a swampy field
where flocks of geese were clamorous, but
besides the geese to which its moistness was
a joy for ever, several families of native folk
lived there in the perpetual fog of unwholesome
houses. These houses were all under
thatch, and their roofs sunken, rotten, and
broken. They were not all equally lost in
dirt, but whatever depended on their proprietor

was equally neglected. The reek of
decay was everywhere, and the aspect of
misery reigned supreme. A lean and ragged
woman was aniline out other rao-s to sweeten,
and a lame girl was driving a troop of children
from their play in the mire. Around these
houses there was always mire, and after rain
the foot sank deep in the spongy soil. Very
old the houses were, nor yet likely to fall
down of themselves. The walls were of
stone, thick and solid, and some black inside
with the m'inie of ages. On the rafters the
smoke hung in palpable webs, and about the
floors every creature that creeps and crawls
and runs in stagnant filth throve and was
merry, from the lively rat to the abounding
woodlouse which made a moving darkness in

o

the damp, noisome corners.

The rector knew these interiors well.
There he hummed much of patience and

resignation to the will of God, of suffering
here and bright reward hereafter; and perhaps
some of the poor souls who heard what
he had to say gropingly believed that there
might be something in it. But neither he
nor they made any push to alleviate the present
horrors of their earthly habitation. It
seemed in the nature of things that they
should be poor, passive, and servile. They
bobbed and curtseyed to the squire and the
parson, and in the dull submission of ignorance
took no thought of any wrong inflicted,
or right withheld. The parson's desire was
that everybody should be good, contented,
and happy. The way he pointed was plain.
They must beware of the sin of rebellion, and
not meddle with those who were even to
change. He preached of the open Bible as
the flag of the Reformation and the bulwark
of liberty, and wished he could see it in the

hand of every man, woman, and child In the
kingdom. It was a curious paradox  but he
did not consider, or did not remember, how
many things are written In that Book dangerous
to be known as maxims by rough and
unlearned persons, oppressed in their wages,
brutalised by indiscriminate housing, and
pierced by the sharp thorn of hunger.

Crump also was familiar with these interiors.
He had a very bad name there, not for
meddling: but for letting meddling alone.
One of the occupants, a widow woman and
a hard strive for decency, had spoken to
Mrs. Denys, who now spoke to Crump.

*' Cannot this be remedied ? " she said with
a gesture comprehending the whole state of
things.

*' The houses arc not ours, madam," the
agent said, but he seemed uncomfortable
under the question.

'' The houses are not ours to take and
clear off the face of the earth, which would
be the rio-ht thmo- to do, but there are conditions
in the owner's ground-lease binding
him to keep them in fit repair. Why are not
these conditions enforced ? "

Crump did not say why. He was unused
to be called to account as a slack hand, butin
fact, he was a respecter of persons, and
never cared to vex the Philistines  the local
vestrymen and guardians of the poor, who
put money in their purses by saving on the
property that they abused as a very bad
investment, but stuck to as if it were well
worth keeping.

I'll see what can be done," he muttered,
and hobbled on, chaffering with his lips as
his manner was when discomfited.

Mrs. Denys accommodated her steps to
his painful pace, and mentioned some other

matter which bore pleasant mention, and
at the rectory-gate, where the rector was at
the moment entering:, she bade him noonday.
Crump passed both sticks into one
hand that he might take off his hat to the
lady, and having paid her this formal tribute
of respect, he vouchsafed to the clergyman
a surly recognition, and trudged laboriously
away.

The rectory was a pretty rustic place,
thatched like its humbler neighbours, and
its deep - set windows composed of little
leaded panes like theirs. The garden was
very nice in the old-fashioned taste, mingled
of fruit-trees and flowers, sunny and productive,
and the lawns of a vivid greenness.
One long turfed walk, with espaliers and an
inner border of gay and fragrant plants on
either side, was its distinctive feature and
principal charm, next to its orderliness and

neatness. Myrtles overgrew the front of
the house, and the upper casements peeped
out of the bushes Hke dim, glazed eyes.

The rector was unmarried, and had a sister
for his housekeeper several years older than
himself. Miss Nancy was coming up the
garden with some winter pears in her apron
as Mrs. Denys appeared, and met her with
a gurgle of apology and welcome. Mr.
Clarges let the rivulet of prattle flow on 
the shortest way with his garrulous good
sister, who abhorred a vacuum of silence  till
catching his deprecating eye, her manner
was abruptly hushed. " I was only just
telling you that I have been gathering the
few last pears of the sort you like, Henry.
Mrs. Denys may like one too. Will you
come in ? Luncheon is ready."

This was no poor parsonage where thrift
toils unceasingly in the wake of debt, but

the abode of a spiritual pastor with comfortable
private means, and the taste to
enjoy good fortune. Mrs. Denys resorted
there for instruction in matters parochial,
and Mr. Clarges was glad of her vigorous
and helpful assistance. If Miss Nancy,
clerical lady paramount for a score of years,
manifested some jealousy of her interference,
that was because she so dearly loved to rule,
and believed none else so fit.

They sat down to table. Mrs. Denys would
eat only a crust of brown bread and butter,
and one of Miss Nancy's beautiful pears,
but she had plenty to say, and on a variety
of subjects. She spoke of the coal-club and
clothing-club, of the fund for bootinr and
shoeing the children of widows, and paying
their school pence  institutions that owed
their struggle into existence, and survival
through many difficulties, to the warm heart.

open hand, and untiring energy of Miss
Nancy. But her special errand concerned
the schools, supported by voluntary contributions
often in arrear. She wished to have
them, as she called it, more thoroughly in
hand, and to have the subscribers kept upto
the mark. The clergyman listened to
her views with attention and respect. He
also would have liked the subscribers to be
kept up to the mark, but he had never been
able to see his way to it. It was easier
to pay the deficit out of his own pocket
than to invite his neighbours with whom he
dined to pay what they owed.

Mrs. Denys next suggestion was a tampering
with what had been hitherto Miss
Nancy's pet prerogative. She wished that
the Christmas prizes should for the future
be given in money. " I think it may bea
means of teaching the children the true

value and right use of money," she explained
with cheerful common sense.

Miss Nancy shook her head negatively
and disapprovingly. *' We don't want to
make little misers of them  we want to
train them for heaven," she said, and there
was the emphasis of pious rebuke in her
voice.

The notion was, in fact, without precedent.
Mr. Chartres himself demurred. Little good
books were the rule, and dolls for the children
of tender age. Mrs. Denys blushed  she
had not prepared herself for any denial of
privileges. The moment was critical. Miss
Nancy's watchful observation was on the
younger lady's tell-tale cheek. The clergyman
did not like to see her disconcerted,
and intervened as a moderator.

** With mutual goodwill and forbearance we
shall work harmoniously together. Nancy,

VOL. II. D

you must continue to give your prizes as
you have done before  the Httle ones would
be disappointed else. But Mrs. Denys' generous
proposal cannot be rejected without consideration.
It is possible that the first class of
boys and the first class of girls might profit
by it."

Mrs. Denys recovered her countenance, and
without abating a jot of her lawful pretensions,
deferred to what the rector said. Miss Nancy
was on her part profoundly agitated by the
prospect of a competitor for power whose
claims could not be disallowed, but she knew
when her brother's tone was meant to recommend
her to silence, and she said nothing until
the visitor had taken her leave. Then pride
surged uppermost, and she opened upon him
with characteristic fluency and angry unreason.

Was her hard work at the schools for
all these years to be set aside ? Was she

to be put out of her place by a young lady
without experience, who, as soon as the
novelty was worn off, would abandon the
children to anybody who cared to take the
trouble ? But she would not resume it 
certainly not. If there was to be a divided
authority she would retire from the management
of the schools once for all  once for all.

Was her dear Henry supposing that Mrs.
Denys might be depended upon for regular
attendance ? That was ridiculous ! Mrs.
Denys would be away in London three
months of the year  probably she would be
going abroad ; and even if she were constantly
at home, how could she, a stranger and newcomer
to Cote, be a substitute for herself,
who had known every child from its birth,
was godmother to half-a-dozen of them, and
deeply, vitally interested in the welfare of
them all ?

'' My good Nsincy, peace J' pleaded her brother
at the first pause she made for breath. At
the second he muttered : " The management
of the schools is not vested in yo7c ; " and while
the poor lady was quivering under this home
thrust, he effected his escape.

In his study Mr. Clarges sat down and
covered his eyes, a trick of his when perplexed
and worried. That good Nancy fatigued
him sometimes. She would have fatigued
most men. As a lay-curate she was invaluable,
but the rector felt as if he could bear
her yoke no longer. The study was his
refuge. It was not a luxurious place, but it
was quiet and sacred to its owner  a room
with odd nooks and corners, angles and recesses,
and an open stone chimney. Faintly
tinted sketches of scenes dear to the clergyman's
memory adorned the walls, and deal
shelves were fitted in here and there to hold

his books, a miscellaneous collection and very-shabby.


Mr. Clarges was over fifty now  growing
old in the world, but always mild and genial,
and by ladles still highly appreciated. If he
had not been taken such excellent  too excellent
 care of by Miss Nancy, he might have
fallen to the lot of a wife before this. At
his first coming to Cote there had, indeed,
been a rumour, but it had died away, and
the opinion of the parish since was that
Miss Nancy would not allow him to marry.
She called herself a blessing to dear Henry.
Other people called her a blessing disguised.
Of late years she had. become such a blessing
as Providence makes use of for the discipline
of over-easy and indolent persons. They
desire but to be quiet, and some Miss Nancy
is given them for a blister, to keep up a
salutary irritation, and preserve them from

moral lethargy. Poor human nature does
not like It, and the most long-suffering of men
have been known to rid themselves of their
thrall by an outbreak of desperate wilfulness
and self-assertion. This temper and terror of
the smart had been for a considerable while
past seething in the clergyman's breast, and
Miss Nancy, though she did not know it,
was, every time she wearied or contradicted
him, treading on volcanic around.

The eldest Miss Britton was past her
bloom, but she had still many charms, mild
persuasive charms, not the least of them
being a faithful preference for Mr. Clarges'
conversation before that of younger men.
She was an excellent listener, and could stay
for her turn to speak  now Miss Nancy never
listened, and was always impetuous to put in
her word.

The rector mused of Miss Britton as he

sat in his study, shading his eyes from the
common day. And when he had done musings
he ordered his quiet cob, and rode out
to Marshleas to make a call on his old friend
Sir Thomas Britton. When he rode back
again the term of his bachelorhood and of
Miss Nancy's autocracy at Cote was fixed.

CHAPTER XXI.

CONFLICTING INFLUENCES.

' Whatever man possesses, God hath lent,
And to His audit liable is ever,
To reckon how and where and when he spent."

Fletcher.

The rector's woolnof had not been honos a-
doing, and his neighbours were unfeignedly
glad to be able to congratulate him. Miss
Britton was liked, but Cote did not want to
part with Miss Nancy. It was a heavy blow
and great discouragement to the poor people
when she was talked of as likely to go away,
but by Mrs. Denys' tact she was saved to the
place after she had called her dear Henry

a deceitful man, and had gone crying to the
Manor House to tell the squire's wife, so
lately her most dreaded rival, that she was
half in a mind to carry her useful properties
of working and giving into another parish.

Also Mrs. Blythe at the Orchard had told
her that she would be missed  there was
nobody the old folks would miss so much.

Yes, they would feel a loss, I know they
would feel a loss  and why should they lose,
poor things ? The fault is none of theirs,"
Miss Nancy ingenuously reflected.

We must try and prevail on you to stop,"
said her humble friend.

On her way home Miss Nancy met Old
Crump in the road, and the sight of him
suggested an accommodation. She asked him
if he knew of a cottage to let. Crump mentioned
a little shop with a parlour over in
the village street, a very modest lodging,

but rustic and pretty. The lady was familiar
with it.

That will do, that will do exactly. There
is a side window looking up to the church.
I take it, Crump," said Miss Nancy with a
joyous promptitude which showed how glad
she was to recant, and stay in the place that
knew and loved her. And then she hurried
home to throw her brother into dire consternation
with the news.

"You are doing what you like, Henry,
and I shall do what I like," was her strong
method of station her case and setting aside

o o

his veto when she had interrupted two mild
attempts at remonstrance. ' It has all arisen
out of your own notion of a parish cow.
The poor people ought to have milk if they
can pay for it, and as nobody else has
found it worth while, I am going to sell
them milk. Dear Mrs. Denvs will give me

the milk of one cow for those who cannot
afford to buy."

Have you settled all this with Mrs.
Denys ? "

'' Dear Mrs. Denys spoke very prettily,
Henry. I shall not tell you what she said ;
but I know that whatever is meant to do
good to people that need it will not be
frowned on by her."

Nor by any one else, Nancy," rejoined
her brother.

Miss Nancy was touched by the reproachful
significance of his voice. " I hope weare
not going to be anything but friends,
Henry," she said with a gush of feeling.
** You are much younger than I am, and
Miss Britton Is younger still''

We are children to you  we shall call
you the old milk-woman." The rector was
relenting.

I don't care what you call me if you
let me. have the nether croft for my cows,"
Miss Nancy retorted, with an eye to business,
though full of tears.

' Are you going to keep cows of your
own ? You will have to keep accounts then 
nice difficulties you will get into ! "

I was always rather clever at figures 
you have said so yourself, Henry."

You will have to be more than rather
clever if your figures are to balance at the
year's end," the rector said, and ceased, reflection
that no argument availed with his
sister like a practical defeat, and this he was
tolerably sure she would sustain. Perhaps
he even hoped it. She was going about the
enterprise he had originated in much too independent
a temper.

But when he laid the matter before Miss
Britton, that lady smiled upon it. Miss

Britton smiled upon everything, approved
of everything  of prizes in money, of Httle
good books, of parish cows, of boots and
shoes and school pence for fatherless children.
Miss Nancy was assuaged, delighted. The
outlook was propitious for peace and goodwill
; and these doles, the rector said, were
enough  enough.

o o

The rector spoke both for himself and the
squire. Mr. Denys did not like noise and
enthusiasm in charity, and strongly deprecated
the beorinninor of that mischievous
form of benevolence which attracts to rising

o

places work-folk and tradesfolk dio have
failed elsewhere. He was not hard on the
poverty that comes of sickness or evil
chance, and when he requested his wife to
take him always into her counsels, which he
did on assigning her the cow she had asked
for, she was <Aad that he should show an

interest in her occupations, and had no fear
that he would seek to restrain her reasonable
kindness. Nor did he, though she
presently became aware of a subtle adverse
influence striving against her own  the old
influence of Mrs. Essex-Brough, which acted
on Mr. Denys partly by force of habit, and
partly because she took the common and
usual view of things, while Delia's view was
not seldom singular.

In Delia's judgment there was need of
other and better cottages in Cote, and she
wanted to have the need supplied by Mr.
Denys now, on the plea that when cottage-building
was left to small, speculative people,
it was done in a cheap, bad way, too often
very costly in its results to the poor tenants.
Mrs. Essex-Brough volunteered her opinion
that cottage property gave no end of trouble,
and never paid ; and instanced the experience

of her own husband, who was annually
out of pocket by his cottages at Lingfield.

And then she offered advice : " The shortest
way is to do as my cousin Midas at
Cambourne does. Let a piece of land at a
perpetual ground-rent of two pounds ten shillings
for each cottage . built upon it. Then
you are quit of responsibility, and are sure
of your money without any trouble."

The round-rent is too much. Ten

<z>

shillings is enough. Labourers' cottages
ought not to cost more than four pounds a
year with a rood of land. They are silly
cottages without a garden," Delia replied, unwittingly
quoting from very ancient authority.

'' If you go back to Queen Elizabeth and
the age of sentiment, I give up," said Mrs.
Essex Brough, and made very merry over
Mrs. Denys' retrogressive notions.

Delia would not speak of the matter again

in the presence of that lady, but to Mr.
Denys she said afterwards : " If you set
Mr. Midas before you as an example at all,
I hope, Hugh, that it will be as an example
to avoid ; " at which her husband laughed.
Mr. Midas was, perhaps, his favourite aversion
 a foolish, weak man, making haste to
get rich  but he spoke so little of any of his
neighbours that Delia had to learn by observation
in what decree he esteemed them 
which learning came only by degrees.

Mr. Denys did not come into his wife's
plan for the erection of new cottages at that
time. Crump refused to admit that any were
necessary, and told the squire that there was
one at Moffat's Corner to let, which had been
empty six months.

I wish they were all empty at Moffat's
Corner," cried Delia. *' It is Moffat's Corner
I want to have done away."

Moffat's Corner was that congeries of hovels
in the swampy field at the back of the inn
which she had visited in the agent's company,
and which Mr. Denys had begged
her since to visit no more because disreputable,
low people lodged there, and it was
the frequent and fatal haunt of fever and
other infectious diseases. But as for done
away with it, that seemed utterly out of the
question  waste and extravagance in a form
never heard of at Cote until this young lady,
with nothing to her fortune, conceived and
mooted it.

VOL. IT.

THE REDEMPTION OF

NAVE STOCK.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE MEETING OF FRIENDS.

Constant love is moderate ever,
And it will through life persevere. . . .
A suit of durance let it be,
For all weathers." . . .

Mrs. Denys was endeavouring faithfully to
fulfil the requirement of the day  the day of
small things for her yet, who was capable of
such towering hopes and glowing imaginations.
Before that first Christmas season of her
married life was over, it was evident to all
the world round Cote that IMr. Denys'
sons and his little <jirl were to be regarded
as belonging to the family at the Manor
House. Mrs. Denys was criticised as too

kind in allowing this, and very singular ;
and then her singularity was excused on
the plea that she had been taken out of
a houseful of people when she married,
and dulness was a thing she could not
endure. Perhaps she said so, and her own
words were reported. It never occurred to
anybody that the arrangement was made by
her desire, and because she felt it right, but
the few who beofan to know her observed
that she was happy and contented in it.
Marie-Irene appeared often as her gay,
little, talkative companion in a walk, and
always when she drove in the carriage to pay
ceremonious visits. Guests saw her as much
made of as if she were Mrs. Denys' own,
and met George and John at their father's
table, and described them elsewhere as
rather foreign, but not bad form. The
merits of the youths were recognised where

the active amusements in life were in
question, and when Lady Britton invited
them to the annual New Year's ball at
Marshleas they were considered as safely
launched in the society of the neighbourhood.
This was a desired event, and a
triumph in its way for Mrs. Denys, who
had it at heart that they should make themselves
friends, and look back to Cote in
absence as to a home where their welcome
was always ready.

The Manor House was bis: enough for
all, and for more than all who were ever
likely to want a lodging there, and Mr.
Denys was only too glad to let his wife
adopt his children. The social difficulty he
resigned to her, who made of it no difficulty
at all. Mrs. Denys took a high stand, and
permitted no one to repeat to her the
criticism of her neighbours, adverse or

Otherwise, and thus she escaped the fettering
influence of what passes in small places
for public opinion, but which is commonly
nothing more than the dicta of that public
nuisance, the local busy-body.

That Mrs. Denys had a good heart and
a great deal of character was the judgment
passed upon her by such of her
immediate neighbours as had the fullest
opportunity of judging, and by Cousin
Elizabeth Paul at a distance, who heard
from Hugh Denys of all that his young
wife was done for him. At the House
with Golden Gables they did not know how
much to believe of what reached them by
round-about methods ; for Delia's letters
to her mother contained no mention of the
boys or their sister, nor of some other
things that were happening to her. It
seemed that she was insensibly yielding to

the Strong persuasion of her husband, and
letting them slip further and further away.
DeHa would have said that the fault was
none of hers. Without seeking she had
found a erowinof aversion in her husband's
mind to the very name of them. She was
not careful on that account to be silent,
but would always speak of her home news,
and tell him from whom it came  whether
from her mother or from Cricket. The
judge had never written to her ; but her
father wrote from London, and her other
brothers at intervals. Altogether she was
kept well informed of the family affairs,
and if her patience drooped It was presently
revived again by anticipations of the
spring. "If we do not meet before, we
must meet in town ; wc shall go up for the
season, and you must come," she had
said to her mother, and her other had

answered that no light matter should prevent
her.

Before the London season began, Delia
enjoyed other and delightful changes. An
incident happened  trivial it seemed at the
time, but it was destined to lead on to
great consequences. It befell on a day in
February, when the Manor House was quiet
again, when little Marie-Irene had gone
back to her convent-school, and her brothers
had gone to Paris.

Mr. Denys had ridden to the meet that
morning with Mr. and Mrs. Essex-BrouQh,
and Delia returning late in the afternoon
across the fields from a visit to Widow
Blythe at the Orchard  the woman amongst
her humble neighbours whom she liked
best  was overtaken by them trotting homewards
in noisy spirits after a hard run.
Delia wore a dark-grey cloak, and she had

pulled the hood over her head to keep out
the cold wind. None of them knew her
in this costume, but her figure was striking-and
after they had passed Mr. Denys looked
behind him. When he saw who it was, he
cried out, " Delia ! " in a tone of mixed
surprise and remonstrance, and pulled up.
'you are out late, and too far from home,"
he said.

A great walk refreshes me, Hugh," washer
answer, and she spoke as if she felt
vigorous and lively  very much refreshed.

'* You should close this path across the fields,
Mr. Denys, and then your wife might be out
as late as she pleases without any fear of
falling in with rough people," Mrs. 
said in her loud decisive manner.

I have no fear, and I like to meet the
people  they are our own pcopk" Mrs.
Denys replied, and she gave her husband a

sicrn to ride forward. There was nothing else
that he could do, but he had an irksome,
annoyed feeling in leaving her to follow alone
along the dreary path.

Delia thought nothing of it ; she had traversed
it often, and she was not alone all the
way. Oliver Blythe, the old shepherd at Cote
Farm, joined her with his dog, and asked if
she could tell him whereabouts on the down
his sheep were  a question he had asked her
before. She had very long sight, and her
direction had once saved him many steps. He
walked on with her until their roads parted,
giving her his views of things as they were
tending towards progress, and working into
his monologue many shreds and patches of
colour from the ancient history of Cote. Mrs.
Denys liked his talk  she liked all that
family.

Mr. Denys was fatigued, and at dinner he

said very little ; but afterwards he made a
proposal to Delia in a manner that pleased
her : "I have been thinking that you get
less than your fair share of our country
pleasures. What do you say to a month's
foreign travel before we go to London ?
Suppose we start next week, and arrive in
Rome before Easter."

Delia was enraptured, and showed her
gratitude with affectionate enthusiasm. Her
proud reserve was much abated since her
marriage, and the loss of it was a gain to
her In loveliness, in grace, in happiness 
in a thousand charming ways.

*' Then It Is settled," responded her husband
in a tone of satisfaction ; and within half an
hour he had marked their route, had brought
itineraries to Instruct her of what was chiefly
to be observed on it, and sketches of his
own In Illustration.

I think, Hugh, you have been everywhere,"
she said. And, indeed, he had been
wherever he meant to carry her on this
journey.

When Mr. Denys apprized Mrs. Essex-brought
of his sudden departure, she looked
down and said he was wise to show his
wife something of the world. '' She has
seen nothing and she sees nothing  ' Quine
voit rien n'a rien a dire,' " she quoted
with that freedom of personal comment and
criticism in which she indulged.

You don't quite know Delia yet," Mr.
Denys said in a tone to stop the familiarity.


Deliass friends at Auldcast-er were agreeably
surprised when her first letter from
beyond the Channel arrived at the House
with Golden Gables. She wrote it at
Amiens, her second was from Paris, and

she wrote a third time on reaching Romeo



Cricket was the honoured recipient of these
letters, because DeHa could give no details
of the immense enjoyment she was having
without frequent reference to her husband,
and Cricket's prejudice against Mr. Denys
was materially abated by his affection for
his sister.

She is in glorious spirits. I expect we
shall find an improvement in Delia when
we meet," her mother remarked with tender

joy-then
there was an interval that seemed
long, and their next news of her came from
Knowle  sent by her Cousin Fanny. Lady
Herrick had met Mr. Denys one Sunday
in Rome as she was leavings the English
church, and had inquired for his wife.
Delia was not well, he said, and she was
keeping quiet. He was carrying home a

pot of white hyacinths to gladden her eyes
in prison  so he said, and nothing more.

And they heard nothing more until they
heard from Delia herself. This time it washer
mother who had the letter. Delia did not
allude to any illness ; she said only that their
return would be delayed a week or two beyond
the date that they had originally fixed, because
she found Italy so charming, but they hoped
to be in London before the end of May  if
not before the birthday Drawing-room.

She is intending to be presented," Lady
Daventry said. " One of the rich citizens'
wives will present her." This was her way of
intimating that she would not do her granddaughter
that favour, and Delia's mother had
never been presented.

The younger lady coloured and said : '' I
think, grana, you ought to do what she
asks you  but she may not ask you."

Said the judge to his old wife : " If Delia
is to go to court, it is your place to go with
her."

There the difference stood until Mr. and
Mrs. Denys were actually in town, domiciled
in the house of Sir Oliver Denys, that rich
citizen who had been once Lord Mayor. Sir
Oliver was kept in the country on account
of his feeble health, and Cousin Elizabeth
Paul had surfeited the offer of his townhouse
to the head of the family, who was
not yet provided.

Mrs. Denys came to London for the season
in a perfect humour to enjoy its pleasures.
She had acquired just enough experience to
know that it would not be wise to put her
trust in the world, or to make society her
stay. " One is nobody in London," she said
to her husband with a touching simplicity.

Mr. Denys had taken pains with her while

VOL. II. F

they were abroad. In Paris she had heard

the finest music ; in Rome she had seen the

noblest pictures, and had learnt enough of

antiquity to give her a taste, and furnish her

with understanding and answers when these

were the topics of conversation. Her memory

was excellent, and she was cultivating, rather

tardily, a habit of attention. '' Without that

you will be my dear dunce to the end of the

chapter ! " her husband had once cried out

a little impatiently when she was letting her

eyes wander while she listened to a longish

exposition on the Schools of Painting. Since

then she had begun to regard it as her duty

to be gracefully accomplished, and to despise

nothing that he cared to teach her.

The possession of Sir Oliver Denys' house
gave them many advantages. It was perfectly
appointed, and not too large ; and
looking across a garden into the Park was

pleasantly quiet and cheerful at all times
of the day.

They arrived in town in the morning, and
the same night went to one of the smaller
theatres to see a popular piece that was having
a great run. Delia had not often sat at a
play, and it seemed very real and affecting
to her. She forgot herself, and showed all
her tender sympathy in her face. Hers was
a new face, but Mr. Denys' was well known
to several people there, who, having heard
of his marriage, supposed that to be the
lady, in a half-high black dress, with a strings
Roman gold beads round her throat. A
great dame of his county, a great dame of the
old style, who was on speaking terms with
much worse characters than Mr. Denys, took
a note of Delia as classically perfect in form
and feature, and very noble in expression,
and the next day sent a letter to her grandmother,

inquiring under whose wing Mrs.
Denys was going to the Drawing-room, and
proposing if to come to London for the
occasion did not suit Lady Daventry  to
carry her there under her own.

Lady Daventry was checkmated. She
had made no response to Delia's hint of invitation
to herself, and she knew that to be
introduced by "Duchess Adela" would give
her the pass-key of the innermost circles of
that curiously constituted world within a
vorld  " the best society "  the paradise so
many long for, and never reach. She declined
to go to London on the plea that her duty
would be better done by the old duchess, but
Delia's mother went, and the judge.

There was something almost childish, and
perhaps even a little hysterical, in Delia's
joy at embracing her mother again. She
still blushed under her grandfather's eye, and

her tongue faltered. 'rit is nothing but pain
to see gran'papa now," she said petulantly
when the first interview was over. At their
next meeting she was scarcely more composed
 that was when she stopped for a few
minutes on her way to St. James's. Mr.
Denys was in the carriage with her, but
would not go upstairs.

'' I am come, mamma, as you wished me,"
she said, and stood at a distance to be
viewed.

The judge put on his spectacles. " Is it
so very splendid ?" he inquired, critically
inspecting her court-dress, which was quiet
in effect, though in taste perfect  that was
Delia's taste, a simplicity that became her.

"It is not very splendid, gran'papa," she
answered, and made him a fie curtsey to
carry off her confusion.

Her petticoat was of satin, ivory-tinted, and

the train of satin delicately brocaded with
gold ; and her ornaments were the filigree
gold beads again. Her mother had expected
to see pearls and diamonds  but Delia had
no diamonds.

Her father entered from the next room
with a pen in his fingers. He looked her
over, and nodded a good-humoured approval.
*' It is very pretty  I wish Cricket were hereto
see you," he said. " I am very busy 
good-bye," and he disappeared again.

' To-day Mrs. Denys of Cote begins her
career as a leader of fashion ? " the judge
questioned, half to himself, reflectively.

No, gran' papa, it is not upon that stage
I shall have to play my part," Delia responded
in a like subdued voice. Then she
kissed her mother, and the next moment was
gone again.

A prolonged silence succeeded her departure.

Her mother trembled, and had much
ado to restrain her tears. 'she would be
quite happy if it were not for her separation
from us," she said at length. *' Mr. Denys
is good to her, or she would not have that
sunny peace in her face she has. I know
Delia."

'thank God she is happy  pray that it
may last," the judge replied. " As for her
separation from us  you have asked her to
come home, and she has not come. She has
not asked you  nor any of you  to go to
Cote. Mr. Denys is master. If she have
need of you, some day he will send  till
then be satisfied that she is permitted to
write, and to see you as she did yesterday
and to-day. It is not much, but it is
better than nothing."

Indeed, it is. And I can bear the rest
while I see her in health, and know that

life is not made hard to her. But I wish,
and so does she, that we were all friends
too-ether."

To this the judge gave no answer. He
was quite contented that Mr. Denys should
keep them all at a distance.

CHAPTER XXI I L

THE MEETING OF FOES.

In time small wedge will cleave the sturdiest oak
In time the marble wears with weakest showers."

Mrs. Denys prophesied truly when she spoke
on the Impulse of the moment, and said that
it was not as a leader of fashion she would
have to play her part on the world's stage.
She had her vogue for a season, was
talked of, followed and admired : a woman
of great beauty and fine understanding 
that was her character. She had not a
spark of coquetry. To be always dancing
and always gay did not please her, and she
took her permanent place in the graver

phases of society. Introduced by '' Duchess
Adela," she had every advantage. That
grand old lady professed to have fallen in
love with her, and was known to be steady
in her likings. She was civil to Mr. Denys,
and had been civil always. She approved
of the generous part that his young wife
had taken towards his children, and was contemptuous
of the minor magnates of the
county who had not called upon them on
their marriage. '' Mr. Denys is not good
enough for some of his neighbours at Cote ?
I should like to see the man who cast the
first stone at him," cried she, with derision
sparkling in her shrewd black eyes. And
she invited Mr. and Mrs. Denvs to meet
her best company.

Delia was not elated, but she was glad.
At that little house in Mayfair she was
welcome at any hour of the day. Duchess

Adela had no children left  they had died
all in early middle life  and not many of
her contemporaries survived. Soon after
their intimacy began, she said to Mrs. Denys
with a touch of nature that levelled the distinctions
of rank : " The world is growing
thin for me. I am happy to have found
yo7. We need one another. We can do one
another good. And that is a safe bond of
friendship." Delia kissed her. " I will be a
daughter to you," she said. And she was like
a daughter to her.

Duchess Adela spoke and wrote of her
new acquisition with enthusiasm. The Lady
Laura Hayman, who had neglected Mrs.
Denys in the country, was taken to task,
and was sorry, but pleaded that a wife
must hold with her husband. She held
with hers so loyally that she adopted all
his friendships and enmities, and was friends

or Strangers with their neighbours just ashe
willed.

Colonel Hayman was not a very wiseman.
He was fond of popularity, and was
called good-natured and liberal. People
who did not like him  and Mr. Denys
was one of these  said that his acts of
liberality were acts of business, done with a
long view to the future representation of
the county. Duchess Adela reasoned that
Mr. Denys would not stand in Colonel
Hay man's way as candidate for the county,
but the Navestock interest miorht be brought
to bear against him, and the prudent policy
would be to bcQin in time to win it over.
Prompted by kind intentions, she made the
initiatory manoeuvre by arranging that they
should come together unexpectedly at her
round table.

The gentlemen had an old quarrel between

them which need not be entered into in this
place. It was purely a man's quarrel, and
had been the end of a comradeship that
dated from the playing fields at Rugby.
They confronted each other for an instant
with the sullen defiance of two strong does
that have had a grand fight once upon a
time, and would fall to again but for the
disciplinary whip that makes both dog and
men behave themselves in special places.

The Lady Laura looked hot and flurried,
but the disciplinary whip coerced her also,
and she was not more abrupt than washer
manner when nervous. Mrs. Denys
was prepared. She had thought the experiment
hazardous, but was not afraid for her
side. " Hueh will be no more moved thana
rock," she said. *' I am sure of Huo'h 
perhaps I may shake a little." She did
shake a little, but her confidence in her

husband was sustained. His blue eyes stared
full and bright at his adversary, who had grown
amazingly fat, and then a smile broke over his
face  not a quite pleasant smile for those
who understood it  but Colonel Hayman, who
was short-sighted and more confounded than
the other, offered his hand. Mr. Denys gave
his, and the conversation at dinner never came
to a pause for either of them.

The other guests were Mr. and Mrs.
James Herrii ck of Knowle, young people
in request everywhere, and Mr. North, the
artist, who was invited for the purpose of
studying Mrs. Denys, with a view to that
portrait which has been reckoned since his
death as one of the finest, if not the very
finest, that he ever painted. Mr. and Mrs.
James Herrick were taken by surprise.
Fanny blushed painfully. Delia whispered :
"Well met at last!"

There were recurrent moments of uneasiness
through the evening, but the bold manoeuvre
of Duchess Adela was on the whole
a success. She had given her guests who
desired it the opportunity of making new
beginnings, and to some extent the opportunity
was improved. Old foes and friends
grown cool had met on neutral territory,
and exchanged preliminaries of peace. In
the autumn, when everybody was at home
in the country again, there was a prospect
that peace might be ratified.

Mrs. Denys' noble air stood her in good
stead. Colonel Hayman wondered at Mr.
Denys' luck. At this period her frame of
mind was such that small matters did not
disturb her. She did not appreciate why
Lady Laura's notice was so coveted. To
see her Cousin Fanny was a simple satisfaction
that had no drawback. When she

was less happy than now, her nearest and
dearest had used her less than kindly, and
strangers had copied their example, but she
felt no sort of resentment because of that.
If she was injured, it was never her nature
to strike assail. She had no heart for revenges
; her circumstances were changed, and
all she longed for was that their state of
alienation should end.

She pursued a method of her own to
end it. While the judge and her mother
were in town, she went to them every day,
and timed her visits for the best chance
of dine her father there. She never
offered any apology for not inviting them
to come to her  it was enough if she could
get over one difficulty at once. Duchess
Adela had a health-prescription for a walk
in the morning early, which she took in
the Park, so many miles after breakfast,

and Mrs. Denys walked with her regularly.
The judge joined them on several occasions,
out for his constitutional at the same hour.
Mr. Denys . let Delia go her own way
in this free of comment. He went his
way too, and that way was as far as he
could get from his wife's family. What
hopes he had built on them were dead
and buried. They might have helped him,
and they had acted as believing him incapable
of good. He was angry and proud
and unforgiving in his turn. It was a pity
for all sakes, but retaliation is the common
law of men," and he felt no longer any need
of them.

A orreat indiscriminate crowd of idle
people was always a bore and a nuisance
to Mr. Denys, but he had in London,
Paris, and Rome a wide acquaintance
amongst public and professional people,

VOL. II. G

and a few dear and distinguished intimacies.
Delia met and was received by these
friends of her husband with cordial respect,
and she took to them far more kindly
than to the fashionable sort. Sir Oliver's
town-house had every requisite for the
entertainment of society, and in their occupation
it grew famous, by and by, as a
house where the guests were really amused.
Their hospitalities were without ostentation,
frequent and easy, and Mrs. Denys, being
happy and pleased herself, had the fortunate
gift of making her company feel at their
best. Already, during this her first season,
she beofan to strike out that line of hero



own to which she adhered with conspicuous
grace and success when her brief day of
fashion and novelty had waned. It came
to be said that people worth knowing were
to be met at the table of Mr. and Mrs.

Denys ; not alone the stars newly discovered,
and destined to fall, perhaps, from the firmament
of their heaven after the dazzle of a
season, but the luminaries that had been
shining a long while and promised to go on
shining  luminaries foreign, political, artistic,
literary, and lovely. As these grew more
numerous, Mrs. Denys instituted her Thursday
evenings for receiving visitors, a custom
that she never afterwards intermitted, and
which she carried into the country with a
difference to accommodate it to country hours
and country habits, keeping it of afternoons in
the Dutch garden as long as the warm weather
continued, and later on, when Cote rose to the
dignity and enjoyment of a winter season, In
her pleasant drawing-room.

CHAPTER XXIV.

AT SAVES COURT.
*' Money is a good servant, but a dangerous master."  BoUHOURS.

When Sir Oliver Denys' house was lent for
the season to the head of the family the fact
was noted, and by one person invidiously
noted.

To him that hath shall be given, and he
shall have abundance," prophesied that wild
slip of the old Denyses who had contended
with Mr. Denys of Cote for the Navestock
succession.

His sinister meaning was reported to his
adversary. Its effect on Mr. Denys was
remarkable. It took away his breath like

a sudden blow. He did not speak for full
ten minutes after. His countenance was as if
some passion dormant in him had awakened,
and was coming to the light. When he opened
his mouth his words were uttered slowly and
with difficulty : " Go back to poor Ralph, and
say, that if Sir Oliver leave his half million of
money to me, to set up Navestock again, I
shall be neither glad nor sorry. I shall know
that there's a fate in it."

Men do not ardently covet what they have
no hope or expectation of reaching, and while
the release of Navestock from the encumbrances
which reduced it to a mere nominal
possession was impossible by any effort of
his own, the desire of it had not entered
into Mr. Denys' mind. And he did not
welcome it now. If it came, it came  asa
recurrent thought comes, pestering us in
the midst of other things  and for the present

he did not take his wife into his confidence.
But a whisper is enough to make of
such a secret a common rumour in interested
circles, and before it was a week old there
was not a Denys, at home or abroad, in town
or country, who had not heard it.

Delia heard it from her father, and was
moved almost as much as her husband
was. She asked him if he believed it. Mr.
Denys said : " Neither Sir Oliver nor Cousin
Elizabeth Paul ever grave me reason to
suppose that I should take anything under
his will. His own relations and his late
wife's relations are legion. The family
have conjectured that Cousin Elizabeth
Paul would oet the lion's share  without
inquiring what she would do with it. Probably
no one except his lawyer knows what
sort of will Sir Oliver has made. They are
playing * Faust ' at Covent Garden to night.

Let us go and hear some beautiful music, and
put money out of our heads." DeHa understood
that he would discourage idle speculation
on what both felt to be a oreat matter.

Sir Oliver Denys was reported very feeble,
and some declared that his death was imminent.
Sayes Court was no more than a three
hours' drive from London, but Mr. Denys had
never been accustomed to eo there unless invited.
Nor did he offer to go now. "If Sir
Oliver wants us, Cousin Elizabeth Paul will
send," he said to Delia, and not another word.

Nevertheless the expectation was much in
his mind, and in hers also. But they were
not sent for until they were about to leave
town, and go home to Cote for a fortnight,
intending after that to ceo to Scotland.

Sir Oliver Denys was not so far advanced
on the road to that bourne whence there
is no returning as impatient persons said.

He was a wiry old man who meant to goon
livlnof as honos as he lived. That summer
he kept much out of doors. Sayes Court
was on the verge of the heath country of
Surrey, where the fine air is the very breath
of health. The house stood flat upon the
ground  a long, low house with tiled roofs
and imperfect battlements, built a hundred
and fifty years ago. It had been beautified
by Sir Oliver when he bought the place
to please his wife, and left since he lost
her almost without needful repairs. After
that event he had seldom stayed there
longer than a day until the present year,
when he fancied that the quiet suited him,
and in the honor interval of his avoidance

o

it had got to look like an uninhabited house.
The approach was from the north by a
straight avenue of lime-trees, leaving a deep
ditch on either side and meadows beyond.

There was a grass-plot with a sun-diei opposite
the door, and under the porch were stone
seats. There was no view from this front,
and the shutters were permanently closed.
A broad paved walk was carried round the
house on all the four sides of it. To the
west a orate save entrance to a semi-circular
garden bounded by a lofty wall covered with
neglected fruit-trees. This walled garden
was a complete wilderness. The paths were
lost in ofrass, and ofrass choked the borders.
Here and there a red rose tossed its blossoms
into the sunshine, and a vivid spike of snapdragon
triumphed over the rank weeds. In
one spot a Spanish jessamine fell in a confused
heap of fragrance about the pedestal
of a statue thrown down and broken. It
was not a pleasant place, and on that side
of the house also the shutters were permanency
closed  white shutters with gilded

mouldings and large plate-glass windows that
opened on the pavement, and indicated apartments
of some pretension.

The inhabited part of the house was to
the south, looking upon a green court with a
fountain in the midst. The yew hedge had
been cut low to let in the sun, and give a
distant view of the church spire and some
cottages. This front of the house consisted
of a centre and two winofs. In the
west minor floated from base to battlement
with magnolias, were all the rooms that served
as living-rooms to Sir Oliver and Cousin Elizabeth
Paul, his man and her maid. A spacious
hall, wainscoted and ceiled with wood, occupied
the entire centre; and in the east wing
were the offices and servants' quarters.

It was hot July weather when Mr. and
Mrs. Denys came to Sayes Court, arriving
in the afternoon. Sir Oliver and Cousin

Elizabeth Paul were sitting out in the weedy
garden, with a rug under their feet, and the
broad shadow of a cedar-tree over their
heads. Not far off was the circular stone
basin and the fountain that had ceased to
play. The damask roses were in bloom, and
bees hummed multitudinous in the limes. The
lady was reading aloud to the old man.

Two solitary people who love one another,"
said Mrs. Denys while they were
yet out of hearing. Then they were
descried, the book was thrown down, and
Sir Oliver, a tall, lean figure, bent from the
shoulders, stepped across the grass with the
careful, slow feet of old a2:e to meet them.

His accost to Delia was most courteous,
and to her husband it was that of a kinsman
who feels friendly ; but his chief interest
was centred in her. He did not say many
words then  it was his hour to rest before

dinner  but after dinner, in the cool of the
evening, he invited her to take a walk with
him, in the green lanes which are a labyrinth
of loveliness in summer round Sayes Court.
Roofs and chimney-stacks and ornamental
trees were frequent behind the tall hedges,
and here and there, through gates and
palings, were glimpses of ivied porches, and
verandahs trellised with all manner of sweetness,
and lawns where people were resting
and playing, and measuredly pacing to and
fro. The Chertsey bells were chiming faraway
beyond the river. A waggon piled
aloft with golden sheaves passed by, and
a troop of men and women tired. Then
they came to a gate into the newly reaped
field, and a foot-path through the stubble
leading to Chertsey. The town lay behind
a broken screen of thick trees, and the sky
above it was flooded with lustrous, pale light.

It was perfect peace and perfect beauty  a
scene that Delia remembered for ever. They
went along the pathway across the field, Mr.
Denys and Cousin Elizabeth Paul following,
in earnest conversation together.

Cousin Elizabeth Paul was saying : 
*' Listen to me, Hugh. This is why you
have come  you must help Sir Oliver todo
a thing that he has made up his mind
to do. We have talked it over by ourselves
and with Mr. Ouorn until absolutely the
last word has been said. We a-ree that
I should be overwhelmed by what the load
imposed on me in Sir Oliver's old will has
grown to now, and if he were to make a
new will in your 'favour it might be disputed
on the ground of incapacity and undue
influence. His money stands in great
heaps, and (pass me a quotation) ' money
is like muck, not good unless it be spread.'

Let him spread it over Navestock, and he
may Hve to see it fertilise a thousand
barren acres. After the heavy mortgages
are paid off you may begin to do your
duty by the land, and you can hardly
been before. So tomorrow morning when
he speaks to you, and bids you give the
mortgagees notice, I pray you, spare him the
fatigue of argument, and let it be done."

Mr. Denys was gazing steadfastly at the
two figures oroinof on in front  the old mano

o o

and his own young wife, two shades against
the primrose sky. " Tell me. Cousin Elizabeth
Paul, do I owe this to Delia ? " he said
in a low voice.

I think you will owe her more and better
than this, Hugh, before you see death. But I
will not fence with you  Sir Oliver calls hera
beautiful character, and he keeps his belief
in the good influence of good women."

*' Will there be any conditions ? any price
to pay ? "

There will be no conditions. There will
be no price to pay. You need to be set more
at liberty, and that will carry you beyond
his range of experience. He was one of
the merchant adventurers in his day, such
as in old times were ennobled ; but he owns
no land except the few fields round about
Sayes Court, and he lets them go. I think
he rather prefers a wilderness as reminding
him of foreign places. I know that he was
never concerned to have his gardens neat
and well-ordered plots ; and now he has
insensibly slipped back into his early habits
of simplicity, when a guinea in his pocket
was not mere gold but splendid wealth, and
Acklam his holy of holies."

*' He was born at Acklam of course  I had
not remembered that. How many years ago?"

*' Eighty-six years ago. And he enjoys
his life yet. He has kept a good conscience
to be the kindly nurse of his old age."

The Chertsey bells, which had lulled fora
while, broke out again, and Sir Oliver and
Delia stopped in their quiet talk to listen.
Twilight was creeping over the fields, all
was turning grey. He had been telling her
of when he was a boy, and some of the
precepts that his mother taught him, which
he had never forgotten, and had done his
best to put into practice. When the others
came up with them, they all faced about
and retraced their way, he flowing on with
gentle garrulity, pleased to speak, pleased
to be heard with deserved respect.

' Sweep before your own door '  that I
recollect as one of her favourite recommendations
to people wanting to do good. I
don't believe that she ever went out of sight

of home to do good herself, but her hands
seemed always full with the poor she knew.
Her principle will stretch across doorways
that are exceeding wide  as wide as yours,
Hugh Denys. The power of life and death
is still in the hands of those who hold the
soil, and is further reaching and used more
ruthlessly, I fear, than ever it was in the
days of feudal lords and serfs."

Delia, who had taken her husband's arm,
felt him draw a long breath. Perhaps he was
searching the annals of his memory for some
act or deed of his own in illustration of Sir
Oliver's remarks  if he sought well, he found it.

The old man continued : " People talk of

beinor haunted  I have been haunted half

my lifetime by a man I once saw standing

at the corner of a street. He looked at me

without speaking, but I understood him. He

had been ill, and was in want  evidently a
VOL. 11. II

man who had come down in the world. I
was in haste, going about my business, and
I went on, but not far  I could not get
away from the pitiful plea in the man's eyes,
and I was forced to turn back. You will
o-uess that when I reached the corner of the
street he was gone, and though I sought him
all the day after, and made many subsequent
inquiries, I was never able to find him again.
That now was a neglect of my good mother s
principle of sweeping before one's own door
an opportunity lost of doing God service.
God never gave me another quite like it."

Whether Sir Oliver meant Mr. Denys to
apply the moral of his reminiscences, or
whether he was just running on because he
had begun, and had a kind audience, did
not appear. But he talked next of threadbare
old adages, and the various strands of
truth that they are found to be woven of

when ravelled out  the willing horse, for
instance. He said that in his observation
God put upon no man more than he was able
to do or to carry if he was willing, and the
more willing God saw men for good work
the more and better work He grave them
to do. Life, he thought, repeated itself, and
the conduct of men was less inconsistent
taken on the whole than it micrht seem
when taken in short views. That priest in
the parable, he believed, would contrive
always to pass by on the other side and not
see the painful service waiting to be done ;
that Levite would have always the same
idle curiosity that looks without any desire
to succour ; and that Samaritan would as
likely never journey but he would fid some
poor wounded soul to give a lift to.

CHAPTER XXV.

WITHOUT CONDITIONS ?

A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds."  Bacon.

The following morning towards eleven o'clock
Mr. Denys was called to Sir Oliver's sitting-room.


Come with me, Delia. I have no Interest
or concern that is not yours as well," he
said to her ; and Delia, laying aside the fine
needlework in which her fingers still delighted,
accompanied him in a serious exalted
frame.

With Sir Oliver was his lawyer, Mr.
Ouorn, In front of whom were arranged
numerous papers, a small packet of ' letters.

and writing materials. He looked penetratingly
at the young lady, seemed satisfied with
his inspection, and listened to Mr. Denys'
plea for her presence.

'' She has a good memory, Sir Oliver, and
as in the course of nature she must outlive
me, it will fall to her to carry on your experiment."
And then he recited that clause
in their marriage-deeds which had proved to
her family in opposition the high respect he
had for her intellectual and practical powers.
Mr. Ouorn looked at the young lady a second
time, and his favourable impression was
strengthened and confirmed.

Cousin Elizabeth Paul had taken her seat
at Sir Oliver's right hand, and Mr. Denys
faced them with Delia by his side. The
lawyer was at the upper end of the table,
his documents all in order, ready to open
the day's business. He began by reading

from a sheet before him Sir OHver's plan
for the redemption of Navestock. The bulk
of the money which he proposed to apply toit
had grown from the old man's early subscriptions
to some of those grand enterprises
of public utility which have been long a part
of national civilisation. There had been in
the beginning risk for the furtherance of
good ends, but these ends being permanently
achieved, and the stock in request by trustees
and others as a steady investment, Sir Oliver
judged that his money might well be spared
to serve another wise, speculative purpose.
His plan was direct, and simple, and complete.
Mr. Denys heard it without interruption,
wearing a gravely neutral air  a
man likes to have his property released from
encumbrances, but Mr. Denys could not
credit yet that the gift of release was a free
gift.

Mr. Ouorn handed him that sheet, and
proceeded to recite from another the terms
on which certain persons coming next in the
entail, falling lawful issue of himself, were
prepared to sell their prospective rights.
Here Sir Oliver spoke in explanation.

I want your hands to be loosed, that
none but your very own may have it in
their power to say you yea or nay as to
what you shall do or leave undone at
Navestock."

Cousin Elizabeth Paul was regarding Mr.
Denys attentively. Mr. Denys glanced at
her and laughed : " Let me know the root
of the matter," he said. " Behind this wonderful
generosity of Sir Oliver there is surely
some pious enthusiasm of our good cousin
Elizabeth Paul."

Mr. Ouorn took up the packet of letters,
and offered them to Mr. Denys : " Here are

four letters from Guy Francis Meade, serving
with his regiment in India."

Sir Oliver spoke again : " You remember
what I told you about him, Hugh ? He
is that intrepid, handsome lad who came
to us, sentenced to the desk for want of
money to open him a career more to his
liking. He could not abide it, and took
it into his head to enlist. There have been
rude times in India lately, and he has earned
his commission."

Yes, I remember," Mr. Denys said, and
proceeded deliberately to open and read the
letters.

They were the brief matter-of-fact letters
of a young soldier in answer to the respectful
investigations of a stranger who had an
interest in him  letters of thanks for some
offer of help that was pressed but not
accepted. The last of the four affirmed the

writer's satisfaction in his life as it was, and
said in a few animated phrases that he could
look neither behind nor before him  the
regiment was just going into action, and he
could attend only to the duty of the day.

For his next news we may consult the
papers," Mr. Denys said, and gave the letters
to his wife.

Mr. Quorn intimated that they might keep
them. If the correspondence was to be continued,
that would be their affair.

Mr. Denys had enough to reflect on.
The obvious moral of Sir Oliver's plan for
the redemption of Navestock was that the
Meadess, and especially this plucky young
fellow who had prone soldiering to India in
the ranks, should replace in the entail
those Denyses of Kent who were willing
to sell their prospective rights for an immediate
consideration. If he acquiesced in it

there would be a strong compulsion laid
upon him to carry out In some present,
practical shape the justice that Sir Oliver
wanted to have done. Sir Oliver did not
say so much, but that was a part of his meaning,
and Mr. Denys understood it without
direct statement. He felt that his old kinsman's
wishes must be held sacred, but he
made no haste to offer promises. He just
said with an air of not having yet recovered
from his astonishment that he supposed he
ought to accept the release which Sir Oliver
was ready to give.

Mr. Ouorn seemed amused by the inadequacy
of his words to the event, but the
others, who knew Mr. Denys better, were
satisfied. Sir Oliver himself was* satisfied,
and Cousin Elizabeth Paul was the same.

That Is all I require for the moment,"
Sir Oliver said, and looked towards Mrs.

Denys, whose lovely thankfulness made up
for any defect of eloquence In her husband.

Delia had a great walk on the heath with
him in the afternoon, and a great talk about
the good thing that was happening to them.
Mr. Denys had settled with Mr. Quorn the
necessary preliminaries, and was possibly tired
of the subject ; for he was very quiet.

You are dull, Hugh. I am all joyous.
What is the difference between you and
me ? " Delia cried in a tone of tender impatience.


'' Five and twenty years, love, five-and-twenty
years," Mr. Denys answered, and
laughed a little at her fresh enthusiasm.

*' Put them out of mind, Huirh  I never
think of them. We are the happiest married
people of my acquaintance." Delia was, indeed,
sensible of no drawback in her present
content.



CHAPTER XXVI.

A SON AND HEIR.

"Be not greedy to add money to money : but let it be as refuse in
respect of our child.
For that which the Lord hath given us to live with doth suffice us."

Mr. and Mrs. Denys went from Sayes Court
to Scotland as they had previously arranged,
and then went home to Cote for the winter.
Mrs. Denys expressed herself as glad to be
in the country again, and resumed her active
occupations with her customary spirit. Mr.
Clarges was married by this time, and the
parish cows were in full employment under
Miss Nancy. Danesmore was re-opened, and
Sir John Herrick made an effort to be more

neighbourly this Christmas than the last  an
effort which Lady Herrick warmly seconded.
Colonel and Lady Laura Hayman copied
the example 'in their own manner, and most
of the other obtrusive blanks in the visiting
at the Manor House were filled up within
a week of its becoming generally known that
Duchess Adela had slept a night there. There
were possibly ulterior views in the condescension
of some great and good persons, but Mr.
and Mrs. Denys set up no self-denying ordinance
by way of retaliation on those who had
shown themselves unfriendly. Their circumstances
were, indeed, such as naturally dispose
the mind towards the forgiveness of injuries.

The redemption of Navestock was being
effected as Sir Oliver Denys had designed,
and by what-seemed to many a happy concurrence
of events an heir to all this greatness
was born on the very day in March when the

title-deeds were restored to Mr. Denys. The
old discoloured parchments were brought to
the Manor House at Cote by Mr. Ouorn, who
carried back the glad tidings of the boy's birth
to Sir Oliver at Sayes Court. Hugh Oliver
was the name given to the child in memory of
the old merchant's munificence ; and as soon as
the new mother could travel, Mr. Denys convoyed
them into Surrey in compliance with
his anxious desire to see them.

The visit was lone enough to drive others of

o o o

the family who wished to do so the opportunity
of confirming the impression of goodwill which
their hospitality had made upon Mrs. Denys at
the time of her marriage. Most of them used
it, and drove out to Sayes Court, bringing
pious offerings to the baby, and their free
opinion that as Sir Oliver had a right to please
himself in the distribution of the fortune he
had won, setting up Navestock again was a

splendid act, in the honour and glory of which
all his kinsfolk might in a manner participate.
This was brave speaking, but was Nave-stock
to be set up again with Sir Oliver's
money ? that was the question. The county
expected it to ensue as a matter of course,
and such of Mrs. Denys' friends as remembered
her ambition in the days of her vanity
looked that it would take now a fresh and
vigorous departure. But nothing was heard of
that, though another thing was presently heard
of that made a nine days' wonder at Beauminster
and wherever Mr. Denys' neighbours
met to talk. The rector of Navestock died
suddenly in his retreat at Ems, and the name
of the new rector, gazetted the following week,
was Meade  the Rev. Arthur Meade, sometime
curate of Clogger in Lincolnshire, a rugged
young man, but quite up to his duties, and
extremely delighted to get a good benefice in

his own county, no matter though Mr. Denys
was the patron.

The late rector had put obstacles in the way
of dealing with the neglected and ruinous
church, but his successor gladly admitted the
claim of old Sir Oliver to restore or re-edify
the building if he pleased ; and they worked so
thoroughly together that the living was further
enriched by the wealthy citizen with a new
parsonage-house, a parochial-room, national
schools, a row of alms-houses, and a nondescript
mansion for a village club. The parish
was very wide, and had been as much and as
long left to itself as any in the kingdom, but
the young incumbent began his labours with a
good courage and promised before many years
were over to have it well in hand.

What Sir Oliver Denys did he did quickly,
as a man works when he has no time to
waste. He was at Cote that summer, where

Mr. and Mrs. Denys stayed mostly at home.
A few weeks of May and June were spent in
London, and again at Sir Oliver's house. Mrs.
Daventry diderot come to town with the judge
that season ; and as the year went on, Mrs.
Denys felt naturally a great wish to carry her
boy to Auldcaster to show him to her own
people. She was both a prouder and a
humbler woman in her sweet maturity than ever
she had been before, and on a pathetic plea
from her mother, Mr. Denys reluctantly consenting,
she went with her heart open to give
and get the comfort of complete reconciliation.

The visit was a failure. Delia sot nothing
but a complete disappointment. The judges
prejudice was more apparent than in the
worst period before her marriage, and her
grandmother's tone was more caustic.

Mr. Denys chose to lodge himself and
his belongings at the White Hart, to be free

VOL. II. , I

t

of the restraint of his wife's family, but he
let her be with them as much as she
pleased. She began by being with them
nearly the whole day long, but the joy did
not last. An unexpected bitterness was infused
into her cup of happiness at Auldcaster.
Mr. Denys, when he was first congratulated
on the redemption of Navestock, had freely
ascribed it to the influence of his wife with
Sir Oliver. This was capable of two interpretations,
and without active malice or wickedness,
the worst interpretation came to be the
one most generally accepted. The judgment
recorded against Delia before her marriage
as a manoeuvrer for money's sake, was brought
up against her now, and confirmed. She had
not the philosophic temper that endures calmly
to be misunderstood. She hid her wrote from
her husband, but her indignation waxed hot
against her foes of her own house.

What does orr and mamma imagine that
she sits impatiently mute whenever Nave-stock
is mentioned ? " she asked the judge.
He advised her not to inquire. Delia took it
that what her grandmother imagined, he did
not discredit, and she turned upon him with
a haughty defiance equally strange to her face
and her feelings.

The French Madam smiled proudly still
from her station above the fireplace in
the withdrawing-room, and the girls from
the rectory said that evening Cousin Delia
was more than ever like the picture. Delia
was not flattered by the comparison now.
And Cricket was unkind. He had amused
himself sadly since the birth of his sisters
little son in making out a dismal roll of the
heirs to Navestock who had come under
the curse of blood, and paid the forfeit by
violent, premature, and unknown deaths. He

showed it to her more in thoughtlessness
than aught else, but it was the cruelest
blow that had been dealt her yet. All the
next day she sat with her mother in the
little white room that had been her own,
where the crewel worked hano:ino:s had been
fresh hung for her coming. Asleep or
awake, the baby was there too  a beautiful
child, blessed with the serene disposition.
For her mother's sake Delia held her peace
from complaining, but her heart was sorer
than sore. The same evening, when her
husband wanted to know how soon she
would be ready to go back to Cote, she
answered that she was ready to go as soon
as he liked. He saw that she was hurt and
angry, but supposed it to be on his account
as it had been before, and she left him under
his mistake.

There was a sharp chill in the air the morning

they left Auldcaster, aud somebody was
anxious lest baby should not be warm enough.

'' Give me your old shawl, mother, to wrap
him in, and I will leave you this of mine,"
Delia said, and hastily effected the exchange.
Her mother offered no plea or resistance 
there were tears in both their eyes. Delia's
shawl was Indian, costly and rich ; the other
was a soft Shetland thing often washed, but it
had a value not to be reckoned at money's
worth.

Mr. Denys, as his way was, did not
choose to see his wife's tears, but he was
very sorry for her. He rode by the carriage
to keep her company till the worst pang of
parting was over, then trotted forward to beat
Beauminster first, that her comfort and the
child's might be prepared when they arrived.
Delia had a sense of being cared for by her
husband that consoled her. In consenting

to brlno- her to Auldcaster he had driven foro

o

his reason a doubt whether she would ever
rest from hankering after her old home until

o

she had re-visited it, and suffered a new
sorrow in its changes. When they were back
at Cote he spoke of the visit in its results.

Some wounds, though they heal, are
always tender to the touch, and such a wound
you got before you married me," he said.
*' Choose now one of two things  keep away
from what hurts you, or try to harden your
heart against the pain."

I will keep away from what hurts me,
dear Hugh. I never could harden my heart
against the pain," was Delia's answer. " And
I don't believe that I shall ever care to seethe
House with Golden Gables again."

The world for the most part admires
money, and is not too curious to inquire
how it was come by ; but it loves to air

its speculations, which are not seldom of an
injurious character, when there is room for
doubt. It was hard upon Mrs. Denys that
she should be talked of amongst friends as
smitten already by the curse of Navestock,
but it is certain that she was so talked of.
There exists in many minds a latent superstition
that makes them soft to receive such
impressions, and in her own family there was
the fear before, and the shaken faith.

Duchess Adela was not one of the susceptible
natures, and she advised Mrs. Denys
to say no word in exculpation of herself :
Those who are prejudiced and those who
are envious will only smile and wink and
nod, and whisper that you don't know your
own heart. Just let them say. Against
such whisperings there is no argument like
a noble life."

THE OLD ORDER Change,

CHAPTER XXVII.

YEAR BY YEAR.

"The ways to enrich are many, . . . The improvement of the
ground is the most natural obtaining of riches ; for it is our great
mother's blessing, the earth's ; but it is slow."  Bacon.

Sir Oliver Denys survived the redemption
of Navestock nearly three years. He was
burled with his wife in a London cemetery,
but a fine brass, In the chancel of Navestock
Church, sets forth his name and benefactions to
the parish for a sacred example to posterity.

Mr. Denys of Cote took nothing under his
will. Sir Oliver's town-house had been his
by deed of gift since the previous summer,
and no work was provided for the lawyers
to do because of him. The will gave

on the whole satisfaction to the family and
its connections. Handsome bequests fell to
many non-expectant young people, amongst
others  by a codicil added in the last year
of the testator's life  to John Robert, Arthur,
and Guy Francis Meade. Cousin Elizabeth
Paul was residuary legatee. She was not
so rich in the end as some had predicted,
but she had enough, and it was very
gratifying to Mr. Denys and his wife
when she announced her wish to go and
live at Cote, to be under Delia's wing in
her old age. A pretty rustic place was
found for her on the road to the Orchard,
where the view was open and the air
bracing, and there she settled  one more
added to the inner circle of dear and
constant friends whom Mrs. Denys was
gathering round her in her country home.
At the time when Navestock was released

from its stranoflinor encumbrances there was no
great thing that Mr. Denys could do, but with
the power in his hands waiting to be used, he
was able to prepare for future opportunities.

The first change of importance that he
carried through was called a prodigious
innovation. He granted to Mr. Gooden,
a thorough farmer and a man of capital, a
lease of his farm at a quit-rent for a term
of years calculated to cover his own life
and his children's lives, including with ita
large area of waste land to be reduced
to cultivation. The non-payment of rent
was the only plea admitted for the eviction
of the tenant.

On this principle Mr. Denys declared it
to be his intention to act as other farms
on the estate fell in. It was a revolutionary
principle, said Sir John Herrick, and would
immensely lower the power of the landed

gentry. Mr. Denys answered that perhaps
the landed gentry had no right to be so
strong as they were, and tenant-farmers of
independent type would be a new power of
sterling value in the country. Also he
answered that, looking forward, he believed
this or a similar form of tenure was what
all of them would have to come to.

It was impossible for his neighbours
to quarrel with Mr. Denys for doing what
he liked with his own when what he did
was oppressive to nobody. But that it
was not like him, nor like any Denys of
Cote before him, they said freely.

The second example that he gave of the
application of his revolutionary principle was
more startling than the first, but it was
received with a general chorus of approbation.
This was the granting of a lease
in perpetuity of what was reckoned the

most desirable of the lesser farms on the
Navestock property to John Robert Meade,
who had spent three years qualifying himself
under a noted agriculturist to farm it
well. With his small patrimony and the
legacy that he had from Sir Oliver Denys
he had a sufficient capital. A poor young
gentleman of ancient descent turned to the
trade of a farmer for profit was an experiment
watched with interest by many, and
with every wish for its success. People
who had gaped and wondered at the presentation
of Arthur Meade to the livings
of Navestock, gaped and wondered again
at his elder brother's fortune, and speculated
much on what could be Mr. Denys' motive
in benefiting these two young men. Probably
Mr. Denys had no occult motive. He
wanted a good clergyman for his parish,
and o-ood farmers on his land  and if the

brothers had not been valuable men in their
respective ways, they would not have had
his appointments.

That Navestock was not to be set up
again in state and splendour was made
known for a certainty when Mr. Gooden's
new lease was slanted. He besan to build
a farmstead on the hiorh road to Beauminster
; and as soon as Navestock was
vacated, a little army of workmen appeared
on the scene who began to pull the old
house down. The antiquarians and archaeologists
raised an outcry as if the place were
a shrine consecrated by holy memories, but
its destruction was not stayed for that. The
relics of Giles Denys were burnt m the
bonfire which ancient custom kindled on
Nave Hill the next Fifth of November; and
when the walls were laid even with the
ground, the foundations were dug out, and

the site was levelled, and so utterly obliterated
that none could tell where the accursed place
had stood. It was said of Ralph Denys that
he went mad that day.

With the best of the cut stone and the
oak timber was built a new house which
was called by the name of New Place.
The spot chosen for It was said by tradition
to have been the original seat of the
Meadess. It was a beautiful site and a
beautiful house, and the general expectation
was that now Mr. and Mrs. Denys would
remove from Cote, where the sound of the
axe and the hammer was likely to be
heard for the next generation. But they
did not remove, nor make any sign of such
a change. On the contrary, the new house
was let to a stranger for seven years.

Denys is putting his affairs In order as
if he were going to die," Sir John Herrick

VOL. II.

said to his old friends at Auldcaster. "We
can none of us make him out. It has been
the craze of his family to add field to field,
and he is wanting to sell. I believe he
wants to sell long leases of every rood of
land that has been added to Navestock
since it was stolen. He showed me the
old terrier the other day  quite a curiosity
it is. When he has reduced the estate to
its ancient limits, what will he do with it ?
What will he do with it ? "

That was a question sooner asked than
answered. It did not actually appear that
Mr. Denys had any deeper design than to
diminish the burden of his possessions, and
make what he kept easier of management
a design comprehensible enough to such
persons as knew that he had appointed his
wife guardian and trustee of his children  of
all his children. Marie Irene was now constantly

at the Manor House, playfellow in
ordinary during her holidays to Hugh Oliver,
himself a little master over everybody, not
by domineering, but by the persuasive influence
of a fine, affectionate nature. And Hugh
Oliver had by this time another brother in the
cradle, who was christened Wilfred.

Such and such was the background of life
at Cote for several years to come  neither
changed nor greatly varied, but as sunshine
and cloud-shadow vary a landscape in pass-nor
over it. Though Mrs. Denys had said
in her wrath that she should never care to
see the House with Golden Gables any more,
she saw It annually, and maintained her correspondence
with Cricket and her mother
unbroken. Yet none of them came from
Auldcaster to Cote  Mr. Denys was now
the one implacable. *' I will never break
bread with any of your house," he had vowed

to his wife, and when he had vowed he was
not the man to repent.

Still there was never any lack of information
at Auldcaster as to the course of events
at Cote, whether public or domestic. Cote
was gradually emerging from its seclusion.
One day Lady Herrick arrived full of the
good news that her dear Jenny's husband
had got his famous plans adopted by Mr.
Denys, and very liberally paid for.

That is Delia's donor  we have Delia to
thank for that," she said to the judge. ' She
is good  you don't know /lozu good she is 
and to everybody. It is enough to give
poor Charlie a fresh lease of life, and my
dear Jenny declares that it has renewed her
youth. I wish you could see Cote before
they begin to spoil it."

'' To spoil it ? " said Lady Daventry interrogatively.


*' Yes. Every place is spoilt more or less
when it begins to grow. There is Cambourne,
where my sister Mary lives  the old people
have added a clause to their litany, and pray :
From the vulvar rich neighbour, o-ood Lord,
deliver us ! ' Mr. Midas can let nothing
pass him. Go then, if you wish to see what
to avoid."

Mr. Wilton's plans had It in view to
make of Cote a town that should be beautiful
in every part. The roads opened vistas
where bright glimpses of the sea came in,
soft curves of the down, wooded declivities,
or blue lines of remoter distances. From the
day when the decision was arrived at that the
place must suffer development, Mrs. Denys
had given her mind thoroughly to understand
its wants and capabilities. llcr husband
appeared supine, but he let her do,
and when any measure necessitated vigorous

action he was not found wanting. She
observed what company resorted there  the
selected good company, whether English or
foreign. It was not much in favour with

o

the rich commercial and manufacturing interests,
nor with the people who live to
make a show; but it had entertained kings
and queens under other names, and princes,
high lords of Parliament, and men of mark
under their own, with all such satellites as
revolve in the spheres of rank and celebrity.
These treat folks had been content to loose
much more humbly than lesser folks have been
since, and it was good judgment to take into
first account the charms and pleasures that
attracted them.

These were the tranquil beauty of the
place, and its restful out-of-the-world seclusion.
The bay was called lovely by travellers
who had seen Naples. The beach

was excellent, the bathos and boating were
very good. Great ships passed on the
horizon, and yachts came in, but there
was no fishing-fleet to watch, no need of
pier or harbour, nor any natural probability
of such want being created. The downs
and fields were as much frequented as the
sea-shore. The orreen walks were delightful,
and there was one extensive tract of
heath and woodland not too far off, which
seemed like a garden of Eden in the summer
weather. Old Crump laid it down for a law
that these paths through the fields and the
woods, which had been half the making of
Cote so far as it was made yet, must never
be stopped. He took the scenery altogether
under his protection, and eager to be of
service in the chancellor order of things, insisted
that every house should have its rightful
share of prospect, and no new-comer be

allowed to block out the pretty view of his
neighbour of honore standing. He insisted
too that every house should be " all face," a
sightly object in itself, because the broken
nature of the sound did not admit of regularity,
and other people's walls and roofs and
chimneys must come into everybody's picture
more or less. Therefore the native stone
which was cheap and abundant was the
building material, roofs were variously tiled
and the Sussex chimney was in vogue. High
boundary walls were interdicted, and hedges
of yew, holly, and privet preserved the rural
character of the place.

When land rises of a sudden from thirty
and forty shillings the acre to thirty and
forty pounds, the lord of the manor may
well afford to tax his unearned increment
of wealth for the founding of solid roads to
be dedicated to the public use ; and this

Mr. Denys did, to his own and his tenants'
permanent advantage. Wide roads they
were, and well drained, with raised footpaths
good for winter exercise. Several of
the industrious old inhabitants put their savings
into bricks and mortar, and others
rented houses in the reasonable expectation
of being able to earn a living by letting

lodoinos. That Cote should be made comes
o

portable enough to tempt the homeless people
who live in lodgings all the year round was
for these a necessity, and they were treated
with scrupulous fairness. Their interest was
in a manner everybody's interest ; for the
community never could be otherwise than
limited, and must hang well together or fall
in pieces.

 LIBRARY <>

CHAPTER XXVIII.

WHICH WILL WIN ?

No man's soul is alone : Laocoon or Tobit. The serpent has
it by the heart, or the angel by the hand."  RusKiN.

Mr. Denys' method of administering his property
at Navestock was so contrary to the
way of the world that the world found a
great deal to say about it, but it appealed
to high and generous sentiment, and it was
made known to Delia by her mother that
the judge entirely approved of what he
had done there. Delia was glad, but she
did not venture to tell her husband. He
never read her home letters now, and had
long ceased to care what the judge or any

of her people thought of his proceedings.
His friends whom he preferred were of another
sort, and Mr. and Mrs. Essex-Brough
were still the first and chief of all. Few
days passed that one or the other did not
find the way to the Manor House. Mrs.
Essex-broach had from the beginning assumed
the office of old family friend to Mr. Denys,
and though Mrs. Denys did not resent the
assumption openly, neither did she ever sofar
acquiesce in it as to cultivate that lady's
society otherwise than in the most formal
manner. To Mr. Denys her company and
conversation were a vast resource, and his
feeling for the appearance of it was probably
blunted by custom ; but his country neighbours
did not fail to make a note of their
constant association and to whisper their pity
and indignation for his young wife.

Delia was happily not sensible of needing

either. She did not admire Mrs. Essex-brooch,
and had ceased to believe in her
great goodness of heart, but she was not

O < > '

afraid of her. They had come to an issue
once, and Delia had exclaimed rather hotly
on that occasion : "I wish you would not
give Mr. Denys bad advice ! " to which Mrs.
Essex Brough, laughing, had rejoined : " He is
not obliged to take it." That was true. ]mr.
Denys was not obliged to take Mrs. Essex-brought's
advice, but she liked him to take it.
She had conceived an idly mischievous ambition
to predominate over his wife, and prevailed
by affecting to see that Delia was a
poor adviser in rural affairs, which had all
her life enofaed her own attention. Delia
was quite awake to the nature of the rivalry
that Mrs. Essex Brough was busy to set up,
and perhaps she was, at first, rather too
indifferent to the risks of it. j\Ir. Denys'

passion for active sports and amusements
was untirlno-, and Delia had never entered
into them with the verve of the other lady,
who had no lovely little troublesome boys
to engage her attention. She would neither
ride to the meet nor walk with the runs,
which was Mrs. Essex - Broueh's regular
practice ; and though Mr, Denys might very
possibly have denied to his wife these rough
privileges had she aspired to them, he was
always willing to enhance their enjoyment
by that other lady who was not his wife.
Nevertheless her power had its limits ; for
Mr. Denys was not weak.

It was a fact evident to the whole county
that the lord of the manors of Cote and
Navestock must be growing richer now
every year he lived, and it became a source
of wonder to many that he did not raise his
scale of expenditure, and assert his title to

that position of public usefulness from which
he had been hitherto excluded. That Mrs.
Denys wished for no change seemed a
very poor reason and explanation to their
neighbours at the Glen House, but in this
important particular Mrs. Denys had her
way. And she had her way in another
thing which was also curiously observed as
behoof at variance with her former views and
inclinations. Though the little boys went
with their mother everywhere else, they
were always left at Cote when she accompanied
her husband to Navestock. The
common people said that the squire's lady
began to stand in awe of the curse.

The steward who was in authority at Nave-stock
at the date of Mr. Denys' marriage
had lately died, and Mr. Ouorn had taken
his office. Mr. Denys was well served there
now, and tenants' complaints and defaulting

tenants were rare. Navestock village was
rebuilt, and to several of the better class of
labourers were let on long leases single
acres of land to break up for spade cultivation.
Two or three of these built for
themselves cottages on plans that Mr.
Denys provided and strictly enforced, and
planted fruit-trees in the full security that
they and theirs would gather the crops.
Still further to ameliorate the condition of
the poor who live by the days work, some
of the smaller gentry were attracted to
Navestock by the offer of parcels of building
land on leases of nine hundred and ninety-nine
years  the same form of lease as was
granted at Cote, but at a lower price as the
land was of lower value. This tenure was
next to freehold, and, as Mr. Ouorn drily
remarked, could be converted into freehold
with a stroke of the pen whenever the

cumbersome land-laws underwent that radical
reform of a clean sweep which ]mr. Denys
was preparing for ; and meanwhile the business
of management simplified.

Mrs. Denys was neither seen nor heard
by the world at large in respect to the
revolution at Navestock, but Mr. Ouorn
knew that hers was the voice which first
set It rolling. Whatever might have been
her pride and desire of riches once, now
all her mind was bent on saving her
children, and all her ambition was involved
in the well-doing of Cote. The Manor
House was hospitable to strangers, some
of whom re-visited Cote so often that they
came to rank as friends, and spoke of it
elsewhere as a charming resort which had
an agreeable society and a good tone. Yet
for all this Cote was not free of perils to
its advancement. The water supply was

uncertain, some other arrangements were far
from perfect, and those pestiferous cottages
out of sight at the back of the inn were
still there, and still overcrowded, a bane to
the village, yet a " paying property " which
no compulsory power on the spot was able
to deal with.

Said the parish doctor to Old Crump :
You will have a bad day in Cote before very
long if you don't make a regulation in that
corner where the Moffatts herd. The fever
which was such a plague nine years ago is
about again,"

o

Old Crump chaffered with his lips, and
started in painful haste to scold the sluttish
Mrs. Moffatt, who just jeered at him, and
praised the fever as the best friend the
poor had, because it thinned the big families
of children. Crump bought her a new besom
for sixpence to sweep the dirt from the door

VOL. 11. L

under the drip of the eaves ; but this sanitary-tool,
though it was useful, was not all that
was needed, and it was all that she got.

This was in the early part of the year,
when a cloud on the horizon of the summer
made all hearts quake for the success of
the season. To point to it, or mention it,
unless with bated breath, was a high crime
and misdemeanour against the common weal;
for at Cote, as at more famous places, it was
quite the moral thing to deny such danger to
the public safety, until the mourners going
about the streets told a true tale.

Mrs. Denys was constantly in the village
doing or scheming good for somebody, but
Moffatt's Corner was forbidden her. Mr.
Denys had said, and Mr. Clarges had said,
that she must not go there. The cases of
want and disease were fitter for the parish
relievine-ofhcer than for beneficent ladies, and

even the stout and pious Miss Clarges submitted
to the interdict.

Mr. Denys heard what threatened, was
afraid, and said nothing at home. Perhaps
no saying would have averted what afterwards
befell, but that was not the reason
why he kept the thing close from his wife.
It was because Delia had urged repeatedly
that v/hat had been once might be ao-ain,
if more and better cottages were not provided
for the increasing population. Crump
did not Avant more cottages for poor people
at Cote, or perhaps he wanted no more
poor people there. He was at variance
with Mrs. Denys on some first principles, and
the lady's way of enunciating contradictory
opinions had lately given the agent deep
offence. In his judgment she meddled with
matters that she did not understand, and
Mr. Denys himself had expressed a wish

that she would leave such and such tasks
to other people. Once Delia had answered
him with tears and passionate declamation.
Since then it had become plain that if peace
was to be preserved between his wife and his
confidential old servant, Delia's propensity to
set right with a strong hand what she considered
wrong must be discouraged by the
practice of a judicious reserve.  And the con 
cement of the epidemic that menaced the
village was an instance of it.

One afternoon in Easter Week Mrs.
Denys was at Croft Cottage when a Scotch
engineer, a former fellow-student with Mr.
Wilton, dropped in,, and an animated conversation
ensued concerning the stream of civilisation
that might be expected to flow into the
fresh country opened up by the railway system
which Mr. Matheson was then employed in

extending coast-wise. Mrs. Denys was extremely
interested to hear the professional
men's opinions, and rose to go long before she
went. The remarks of a beautiful woman are
impressive even when they have little intrinsic
value, but Mrs. Denys talked excellent sense,
and when she was gone, the Scotchman cried
out with enthusiasm that she was meant to bea
great woman surely  she had a quite masculine
intelligence in affairs, and v.'hat a capital
pedestrian she was : he had often met her ashe
was going up and down the line where his
navvies were at work, always with one little
boy, and sometimes with a second whom he
had seen her carrying pick-aback.

Mrs. Wilton, addressing her husband when
Mr. Matheson left, said : 'your Scotch friend
is vastly taken with Mrs. Denys' greatness.
It is not so much her greatness that I admire
as her pure goodness. I never cared for the

Bess of Hardwicke vein in her, but I do love
to see her with her children. It is a blessing
she has them to spend her affections upon, for
she seems to have nobody else."

Mr. Wilton looked at his wife, and spoke
with solemn remonstrance : "Jenny, is it necessary
to laud Mrs. Denys at her husband's
expense ? Don't be a ?vers. Moth. They get
on very well together, so far as I can see"'

They get on very well, going their separate
ways, Charlie. And I am not a Mrs.
Moth," Jenny as solemnly rejoined.

What Mrs. Wilton implied was overtake.
An unspoken defiance had arisen between Mr.
Denys and his wife since the beginning of the
winter. The requirement of the passing day
for Delia was patience, and up to this time she
had never lost it though her provocation was
o-rave. She saw her husband resorting evermore
and more to the Glen House, riding to

the meet two or three mornlnos In the week
with Mr. and Mrs. Essex-Brough, or riding-with
the lady alone, and returning late In the
day, tired and indisposed for other society.
Delia made him no reproaches for real or
imaginary neglect. She was not jealous, and
did not affect to be jealous, but she was piqued,
and grew proudly shy. They were not
estranged at heart, but that " plague of a
woman " had spoiled their pleasant sense of
companionship. Delia had delighted once ina
great walk with her husband, but now she
was fain to take Hugh Oliver, and range the
woods and fields, the downs and shore, with
him ; and they ranged often so far and wide in
the lengthening days of spring that they became
known by sight to strangers like Mr. Matheson,
and talked of in the country.

Happily for herself, Mrs. Denys possessed
that splendid health and glorious sense of

physical wellbeing from which good-humour Is
inseparable. She adored her Liberty of roaming,
though with only Hugh Oliver to share it.
There were occasions when Mr. Denys would
have felt it quite as agreeable to walk vvith his
wife as to ride with his friends at the Glen
House, but Delia did not seem to expect it.

Their elder son was a sociable little man,
loving and merry, and his mother had always
liked to have him there at breakfast-time,
and had made him her messenger to papa at
the other end of the table as soon as he could
trot. None of these sweet dutifulnesses was
she ever tempted to remit. The boy took
a great deal upon him, seeing and knowing
nothing else but kindness, and would lean up
against his father's rough sleeve as confidingly
as against his mother's heart, which was
tender and soft for all children always.

Mr. Denys had ceased to inquire now how

Delia spent the long days when he was absent
from morning: till evening. She had her
boys to amuse her, he supposed  he called
the little boys Iicrs to distinguish them from
John and George, who were only his. Delia
did not carp at the expression  his heart was
bound up in them even as hers was ; that she
knew for a surety, and she had probably not
much doubt that he loved her as dearly.

Hugh Oliver was six years old and Wilfred
was four. When Wilfred went on a walk
with Hus-hie and their mother, Phoebe went
too, and It was wonderful what a distance
the little fellows would zo without tiring,
beguiled by their cheerful devices. But it
chanced one day when they had started in
the sunshine to climb the down that they
were caught in a dense sea-foot. It was
easy to become bewildered and to lose their
way, and they lost it so far that when the

fog cleared off, though Mrs. Denys knew
where they were, and knew the road home, it
was a much longer road than she would have
chosen. All was bright again, and with Cote
church-spire for a guide, she thought it might
be safe to walk by sight, straight as the crow
flies, through fields arable and pasture, through
woods, and over all impediments of gates,
hurdles, and hedges that came in their way.

I am afraid you will be very tired, dear
mistress ? " Phoebe said. Phoebe was a pony
in red worsted harness, ambling gently in
front of Hueh Oliver. Mrs. Denvs was
carrying the youngest boy pick-aback, as the
Scotch engineer had seen her.

Wilfred loved to be carried pick-aback by
his mother, and It was pretty to watch them
making that procession, she in her vigorous
young beauty, and the child with his little
hands clasping her neck, his face warmly

flushed, his lips running; over with Inarticulate
sweet babblings and laughter. Delia's strength
went a mile or so without flagging, and might
have o-one another and another, and have
brought them safe home, but as they were
wending aloncr a orreen ride through the woods
under the down, she heard voices and the
tramp of horses approaching. Her heart stood
still, and her knees shook. There were several
voices, of which the loudest and most resonant
was her husband's. She turned to Phoebe, not
speaking, but thinking  was there no other
way ? There was no other  they must go on.
Phoebe held out her arms to take Wilfred
down, but he declined to be taken down.
Instead, he urged his mother to go faster.

Mr. Denys was In the company of Air.
Claro:es and Mr. and Mrs. Essex-brush.
They were riding two and two, the rector
being a little in advance. Me half turned,

pointing forwards, and said : " Denys, look
here ; " and Mr. Denys, looking beyond him,
saw Delia, and heard himself hailed with
wondering delight by his little sons. Nor
did Delia seem sorry. She steadied herself
bravely, and coming up to him with her
precious load, just said : " We lost our way
in the fog on the clown. Please, lift Willie in
front of you, and help us home." Her eyes
were clouded with fatigue, and she was distressed
before these witnesses, but her action
was simple and natural. If Mr. Denys felt
ashamed and vexed, it was for himself and
not with her.

Mrs. Essex Brough began to ask hasty questions,
and to devise more succour for the
poor vagrants than the conveyance of Wilfred.
Would not Mrs. Denys ride the rector's quiet
cob ? The rector was out of the saddle in an
instant. Mrs. Denys hesitated, but her husband

caught at the suggestion. His young
wife's countenance was a reproachful sight.

Up with you, Delia. Willie can sit in
your lap," he said encouragingly ; and resigning
his own horse to Mr. Clarges, he prepared
to lead his gipsies home, while his friends,
disconcerted by the meeting, rode on in constrained
silence.

Phoebe, still driven by Hugh Oliver,
trudged sturdily In the rear telling her master
in reply to questions that they had gone
farther on a day with the children than this.
How much farther?" Mr. Denys asked his
wife, but Delia did not answer. She was
gazing before her with an uneasy sensation of
fear. If her husband forbade these wanderings,
she knew that she must obey him, and
she would miss them sadly. Willie chirped a
little to them both, then folded round in his
mothers arms, presently hushed and fell

asleep ; and Hugh Oliver and Phoebe lagging
behind, they had their explanation out.

'' There are a great many hours in the day,
and often they are very long," was Delia's reply
to a tentative remark from her husband, and her
voice sounded unsteady while trying to be firm.

Mr. Denys was taken aback, and at a loss
for a rejoinder. He had no fault to find with
the manner in which his wife did her social
duties. She did them easily and gracefully ;
her household was quietly governed, and with
conscientious observance of his general orders.
She had a voice of control in the gardens,
and everything at her disposal that she could
reasonably require within and without her
domain. She had numerous friends and acquaintances
In the village, and in the country
round numerous good neighbours. He told
himself that she had all she needed, and all she
ouo-ht to want, but he did not quite succeed

75

in bringing conviction home to his mind that
she was without cause of dissatisfaction. In
the absence of anything better to say, he said
that he did not understand what she meant.
'' My own people might be all dead for
any comfort they are to me, and what are
friends ? I have no heart for friends ! "
Delia cried in a gust of passionate feeling.
I have never complained. I know that you
love me, but how many days in the week
do you spend at the Glen House, and leave
me to go and come alone ? She amuses
you  that plague of a woman, but I don't
like her. I like her less and less. She gives
you bad advice. She is a bad influence.
You know very well what I mean. She
calls the poor people clods, and laughs at me
because I care for them. I can't help caring
for them. It hurts me to see them hurt. I
want blessings for my children, not curses."

Mr. Denys knew perfectly what his wife
meant when her voice broke with a sob, and
she laid her lips on Willie's soft cheek to hide
her tears. She was so little selfish, so little
exacting, that he heard her with a degree of
wonder, awakening slowly to the fact that her
bill of indictment was a true bill against both
himself and the lady. Prudently he did not
attempt a defence in words, but just held out
a hand of reconciliation, which Delia took with
a long-drawn, tremulous sigh.

It was a lovely evening now, and Delia
did not often come this way. They were
pacing along a broad strip of grass open fora
considerable distance by the roadside. The
primroses were out in abundance, and the nut-bushes
were full of soft tassels. Some fine
ash trees grew here. All the year round it was
a beautiful spot, commanding beautiful and
extensive views  a favourite picnic spot with

Strangers. At the foot of the rise a bank was
being formed to enclose It. The labourers had
left off work, but their tools remained for the
next day. Delia asked what was being done,
though, indeed, it was plain enough what was
being done. They were running up a fence to
take possession of the bit of waste land.

We shall make a shady hedgerow of it,
and plant spruce to be ready to cut when
.Wilfred comes of age," Mr. Denys said.

I thought it belonged to the poor people.
Widow Blythe feeds her little black cow
there," Delia murmured in sad dismay.

Does she ? Then she must find another
pasture. Many things have been allowed that

cannot eo on.

o

Hugh dear, don't do anything hard in
the name of the children ! Don't take the
bit and sup of the poor to make our cup
run over," Delia whispered, almost breaths

II. M

less in her pain. It had come at last, the
elinor that she had lived in secret terror of.
Her husband made her no answer.

They were approaching a pretty thatched
cottage in a garden of fruit-trees. This was
the Orchard, where lived the Widow Blythe
whose little black cow Mr. Denys had just
sentenced to the forfeiture of its rio-its of
common. She was at the gate as they drew
near, and rather sharply cried out : " Mr.
Denys, a word with you, sir, if you please,"
as if afraid to lose the opportunity.

Another time, Mrs Blythe, another time,"
Mr. Denys said, and with an abrupt nod
passed on.

Delia saw from the old woman's eagerness
that she was in trouble, and perhaps angry ;
but Mr. Denys was looking down and looking
very dark, and his wife never spoke vvhen
he put on that threatening countenance.

Just below the Orchard a gate opened
from the main road to the bridle-path across
the fields which Mrs. Essex-Broueh had
once advised Mr. Denys to close. It had
been closed for a time, but it was open again
now, and o-ave a short cut to the Manor
House. Ten minutes more and they were
under the limes  at home  and Willie woke
up to laugh and chirp again. His father's
visage cleared as he kissed the child, and set
him on his feet ; and to his wife he said only
that she must not go a-fishing with the children
any more until he found them a good
donkey. And then he left them, as it seemed
to Delia, to avoid the questions and remonstrances
that were quivering on her tongue.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE ORCHARD.

We advise you to act in accordance with the real sentiments of
both parties, and to make the best terms you can under the circumstances
; for you know, and we know, that, in men's dealings with
each other, abstract right is considered only when both stand on equal
terms. "  Athenian Spokesman.

Mrs. Denys' silence did not always signify
submission to the understood wishes of her
husband. She drew a line of her own where
obedience ought to stop, and though she was
able to infer from what she had seen that he
washed her not to concern herself with the
troubles of the Widow Blythe, she took her
way to the Orchard the next morning purposely
to learn what these troubles were.
Mrs. Blythe was a handsome old woman,

a North-country woman, straight and strong,
and with her faculties unimpaired at threescore
years and ten. She had lost her husband and
all her children, but called herself blessed in
two good grandsons  Richard, who was married
and lived at home, and Jack, who was
single and had lately got employment under
Mr. Matheson, the engineer. Phoebe was
their cousin, and had been brought up with
them at the Orchard by her grandmother.

Mrs. Denys dropped in at the Orchard occasionally
at the end of a walk. As the squire's
lady she liked information on which she could
rely as being true, and Mrs. Blythe had all
the news of the parish and all its old-world
tales at her finders' ends. The widow was
thankful now to have the lady's ear, and proceeded
to detail her grievance.

She had received a notice from the
steward to give up the Orchard at Michaelmas

 the Orchard and the house, which
she had reckoned as good as her own,
which she roundly asserted it was robbery
to take away from her, alleging that there
had been a promise, and Crump knew it,
that the rent being paid, she should enjoy
it in quiet possession as long as she lived.

When Mrs. Denys interceded for her, she
began by asking her husband if this were
so. Mr. Denys explained that long before
Cote was his, the house had been built by
David Blythe on a lease of the Orchard
for three lives, the lives of his three sons,
John, Thomas, and Oliver. Oliver Blythe, the
old shepherd who had died since Christmas,
was the last life in the lease ; and the widow,
who was John's widow, was actually being
used with more than common consideration
in having six months' grace craven her, and
the gathering of the next season's fruit-crops.

As for the promise she alleged, Mr. Denys
said that if Crump had ever made such a
promise he went beyond his authority, and the
widow must not be encouraged in her expectation
that the notice would be withdrawn.

As Mrs. Denys had ventured to hold out
comfortable hopes to Mrs. Blythe, it was her
unthankful duty to go again to the Orchard,
and prepare her for what impended. The
disappointment was very bitter. For a minute
or two the old woman did not speak  could
not trust herself to speak. She let her eyes
travel slowly round the house-place, a picture
of thrift and orderliness. The deep windowsill
was crowded with plants in flower, but
light enough came in at the open door which
gave a view down a turfed walk between
two rows of espaliers. Along the edge of
the border were set gillyflowers, red, white,
and purple, most gay and fragrant in the sun.

Mrs. Denys waited when her communication
was made, and seeing the widow at a loss
what to reply, she said gently : " You have
always been industrious, Mrs. Blythe ; surely
you have saved some money in the bank ? "

'' What is a few pounds to set against the
Orchard ? The Orchard's been our bank.
All our spare labour we put into that," the
widow said, recovering herself with a resolute
effort more touching than any weakness.
"When John and me came to live here,
the land was as bare as the back of my
hand, and the house ht to fall down. John's
father built this homestead, and the fruit-trees
John planted, by twos and threes as
we could pay for them, and always good
sorts. John was very particular to have
'em good sorts ; for what was the profit
o' numbering the round with crabs and
shoes ? He loved his trees, John did, and

was downright happy tending 'em  one
might ha thought the growing things felt
it, they prospered so. When he died he
left me my two lads  Thomas and George.
Georee left me Richard and Jack, and
Thomas left me Phoebe, and their mothers
both gone. Why it was I couldn't think,
but so it was ; and I found bread for 'em,
and thanked God that oave me health and
strength to do it. And now it's come tome
turning out in my old age."

Mrs. Denys was glad to be sitting in the
shadow, for her pity was deeply stirred. She
had been able to get at no good reason why
the Blythes must quit the Orchard, where the
family had lived for generations before the
David arose who built the homestead. Nobody
else wanted the place, which was rather
lonely, and the widow and Richard would have
been only too grateful to renew the lease at a

higher rent, or to stay as yearly tenants had
that been possible.

'where we are to go the Lord knows'
Mrs. Blythe went on after a painful pause.
Cottages are scarce at Cote for labouring
men, and Richard's sore set amen leavings
the farm where he has worked ever sin' he
were a little chap going along with his
father. He's shepherd now that his uncle
Oliver's dead  ' promotion,' he calls it. ' A
hard place,' poor Mary says, but it suits him,
and the wage is more. He has one bairn and
another coming, and that's a consideration."

Your other son was fond of the sea, Mrs.
Blythe ? "

'' Yes, Thomas  Phoebe's father. He went
knocking about the world on board ship
until we lost sight of him altogether. We
never knew what came of Thomas. He
could not bide quiet at home, and Jack's

like him  a bonny lad i' the face, and Mr.
Matheson says he's got a streak o' genius,
which signifies, they tell me, cleverness
above the common sort. Richard thinks
he'll find a living: more to his liking amonor
the railway folk than here, and I wish he may.
Now, Richard don't hanker after change.
Mary and him's peaceable, and would ask no
better than to stay on here for a lifetime, as
I've stayed. To think it's going to end, and
me to die under a stransfc roof!"

You will keep together, Mrs. Blythe 
Richard will take care of you ? "

''No fear but he'll take care of me.
Richard's always been good to his grandmother,
and so has Mary, poor lass. And
her trouble's heavy, falling just now  but
I've promised not to fret."

The old woman got up from her seat, and
walked to the open door, rallying her courage

and fortitude with a renewed effort.
Then she walked back to the fireside. Mrs.
Denys had risen too, and was on the point
to depart, when the gate ticked, and with
slow shuffling feet Crump toiled to the door.
He waited outside until the squire's lady
stepped forth, and made wide way for her
as she drew her dress close and passed
him with a stiff bow and a glance of
pitiless repugnance. While Mrs. Blythe
attended her to the gate, the agent stood
gazing about at the trees in blossom, a
lovely sight, muttering and chaffering with
his great lips as his habit was when disturbed
or angry.

The instant the widow came back within
earshot Crump sharply demanded : " What
message did the lady bring you ? "

None at all, sir. We have to go, as you
kn ow very well," was the short answer.

Mr. Denys ain't the man to repent, I
know that, Mrs. Blythe. He'll be lord and
master on his own land  that's no new story."

** Who hinders him ? I never said a word
good nor bad."

'' You should have kept that gate locked
when I told you." Crump's nod as he said
this was full of meaning.

"Is that why the squire is putting us out
of the Orchard ?" Mrs. Blythe asked, gravely
reflective on a sudden.

*' Nothing's done without a reason  reason
enough when it's shown."

Richard wouldn't have the gate kept
locked, sir."

And Richard said he wasn't afraid of
consequences. He did not know what he
was talking about. He knows now."

'' Richard said he'd do what was fair, and
let what would come of it, come. It was

not for him to deny the right of way that
had used it all his life. ' Tell truth, and
shame the devil,' that was my lesson to
the lads, and you're witness against yourself,
sir, and the squire's witness, that Richard's
done and said nothing but the truth."

Crump hobbled off again without rejoinder,
and the widow was left to chew the cud of
meditation alone. She had been abundantly
warned that they were putting themselves
in peril by refusing the obedience that the
squire exacted. The rector had brought hera
timely word : " Mr. Denys says it will
cost him something to keep the gate shut,
but it shall cost you a great deal more to
open it ; " and she had answered him with
a text : " The rich man hath done wrong,
and yet he threatened withal : the poor is
wronged, and he must entreat also ; " at which
the clergyman was not pleased. Then her

brother-in-law, Oliver, the old shepherd, had
spoken, telling her that nobody in his experience
had ever of set purpose crossed the squire,
and gone long unpunished. " Thou's stubborn
in thy pride of right-doing, and he's just as
stubborn in his pride of playing master. We've
got to behave ourselves lowly and reverently to
squires and parsons in this country, Hannah ;
for squires and parsons clan together, and
is stronger than we. If thou will have thy
way, thou and Richard, you'll have to pay for
it. When the day o' reckoning comes, remember
my words." Mrs. Blythe remembered
them now, but with no backward glance of
regret. That stubborn pride of right-doing in
which she was bred, and in which she had
bred her lads, was likely to be a strong holdfast
to her in the trial that was approaching.
This was on a Saturday while Mary was
gone to market. In the evening Jack

arrived at the Orchard to spend Sunday.
When they were all shut In together,
resting after their week's work, Mrs. Blythe
told her grandsons and Mary what visitors
she had had, and what had passed. Then
she put a question to Richard.

Does thou think, Richard, that the
squire's taking the old place from us
because thou refused to lock that gate, and
stood to it that there'd been a right o' way
through these fields as far back as thy
memory went, and thy uncle Oliver's, and
his father's before him ? "

'' I think nought about it, grandmother. I'd
rather not think worse of the squire than I can
help," Richard answered. " I've been talking
it over with Lawyer Ouorn this afternoon up
at the farm, and he says Mr. Denys is well
within the four corners of the law. Then
says I, it's no use more words. What the law

will back the squire through, he'll never stick
at for being told it's hard measure. As for
the right o' way, I'm thankful not to ha been
tempted. There's no saying but I might ha'
considered to hold my tongue."

I wish thou had, Richard, and left bigger
folk to fight for it," his wife said in a crying,
plaintive voice.

The widow only gazed at her feelingly, but
Richard said : '' Nay, Mary, not so, not so.
Keep a good heart, my lass."

Jack, who had been sitting in deep thought,
sprang up with a passionate gesture and a
mutter between his teeth : " I wonder now
how many men in his time Denys will make
a little less than honest ! "

Thou may wonder, lad ! They're not
counted yet," said his grandmother. " But thisbe
sure of  they're lightly dipped, not grained

in honesty, that Denys can spoil the dye of."

VOL. n. N

You are talking: out of one of them old
books you brought from the North, grandmother
 there it is on the shelf"

Likely enough, Jack, what folks read that's
worth remembering gets wrought into the texture
o' their minds. I'll make thee heir to it.
You'll recollect, Richard and Mary, when I'm
gone. Jack gets that book. There's things
in it that will stand for true as honors the
world stands  like the Bible itself."

Richard spoke again. " I told Mr. Ouorn
that the parson was against us, and sided with
the squire. ' IV/ial did yoti expect ? ' says he,
showing his teeth, and glinting at me as sharp
as a hawk. ' What did you expect ? ' he says,
and not a word more. He's what they call a
man o' the world, yon. They are awful' clever
folk up in London. It hadn't occurred tome.
I'd thought very different o' the parson."

CHAPTER XXX.

CROSS LIGHTS.

"The constant habit of well-doing is not gotten without the custom
of doing well ; neither can virtue be made perfect but by the manifold
works of virtue often practised."  Hooker.

Miss Nancy Clarges was a woman who would
have gone to the stake for her convictions.
She was incredulous of the first news that Mrs.
Blythe had got notice to quit the Orchard, and
when she was driven into the belief that it
was true, she went straight to her brother, and
begged him to speak to Mr. Denys on the
widow's behalf.

*' It is not my place to speak to Mr.
Denys. He knows his own business best,
Nancy," was the rector's quiet reply.

'rit is always a clergyman's place to speak,

Henry, when the poor are oppressed, and the
helpless hardly used."

'' I should only give offence. We must
leave It in higher hands."

o

Miss Nancy felt vexed, and burst out in
elder-sisterly remonstrance : '' That is what
you always say when you want to escape a
disagreeable duty, Henry. I wish you would
not be so afraid of Qivino- offence."

o o

Mrs. Blythe has no right to complain,
Nancy. She has angered and defied Mr.
Denys more than once  recollect her behaviour
about the way through the fields, and
what Richard said and did. I carried her a
word myself, to let her know what she might
expect if she persisted. Mr. Denys said it
would cost him something to keep the gates
shut, but it should cost her a great deal more
to open them. Well, It Is going to cost her
the Orchard."

'rand you carried her that message, Henry?
You ought to be ashamed to tell it ! If you
had had your wits about you, you would have
bidden Mr. Denys, if he wanted such a message
carrying, carry it himself. I would, in a
minute ! "

The rector coloured and veiled his eyes, sensible
of his error, but willing to extenuate it by
pleading that his sister knew as well as he did
how the strong exact all they can, and the
weak have to give way; but Miss Nancy,
instead of behoof mollified, waxed more eloquently
indignant.

'' That is just your heathen philosophy,
Henry. Christ's was a very different teaching.
He would not have gone with a threat to a
poor old woman from her landlord. It ought
to have been easier for you to persuade him
to drop the contention. Mr. Denys knew he
was wrong, and you knew he was wrong ;

Oliver Blythe told you so, and Old Crump did
not dare contradict him. So this is why she
shuts her mouth like a clasp when I try to talk
to her ? How honors it since we have seen
her in her place at church or at the Lord's
Table ? And she used to be so regular ! Oh,
Henry, I am sorry. The good never comes
that evil is done to bring about, but harm that
we never dreamed of comes sure enough ! "

Miss Nancy went away in tears, and her
brother, stirred out of his gentle apathy,
sought an interview with Crump.

Between Crump and the rector there was
no love lost. Crump hated all sorts of sentimentalism,
and especially pious sentimentalism.
The rector occasionally reminded him in a
pathetic, perfunctory voice that he had a soul,
that he was getting into years, that he must
die, that all men must die, turning on him,
meanwhile, a benign, round, happy face, with

eyes half closed, and shaded further by one
nervous hand. Crump never answered him a
word. Early in their acquaintance they had
got wrong. Crump had offered to the clergyman's
perusal a letter from Mr. Denys in which
he was bidden, in the name of his duty as a
servant, to deny the superabundance of the
o;round-o"ame concerning which the tenants on
the glebe had complained. Crump was not
equal to the strenuous effort of blindness required
from him, and incurred his master's
rebuke by following the dictates of higher law,
confessing that the rabbits were too many, and
ordering their decimation. The rector was
capable of reasoning the thing out, and laying
the blame where the blame was due ; but he
either did not do it or speedily forgot it ; for
he continued to rate the accent as a hardened
offender who did his master's dirty work because
he liked it.

Long since Crump had decided that the parson
was as bad as himself without his temptation,
and the vulgar opinion went with him,
that the parson did side too much with the
squire, that he was too ready to comply with
prevailing occasions.

The affair of the Orchard brought that
opinion to a head. The Widow Blythe made
no secret of the loud words the clergyman had
reported to her from Mr. Denys, and with inconsiderate
haste he had said elsewhere that
what had befallen the woman was through her
own fault. " How car' he say it was her fault ?
She did nothing but right. Denies knows no
better ; but parson does know better, and it is
sin and shame to him to have gone on Denys'
bad errand." Such was the rude commentary
of Mrs. Blythe's neighbours upon the incident,
and Miss Nancy, without meaning it, came to
her brother as the mouthpiece of public sentiment,

pointing with her simple rebuke where
his " heathen philosophy " had made him unfaithful
to his holy orders.

Old Crump was as plain as Miss Nancy :
You might have spoke a better word in
season than you did, sir, but you're not in
the habit of it. If you are repenting, it is to
Mr. Denys you should go. I am not master."

Mr. Clarges felt extremely uneasy. He
thought he would go to Mr. Denys ; but first
he would go and talk to his wife.

The eldest Miss Britton, Mrs. Clarges, was
an amiable woman with limited views of life,
who counted it her first duty to make her
own husband comfortable. Before he had half
stated his case, she interrupted him with impetuous,
affectionate assurances that he had
done all that he was bound to do. It was a
clergyman's duty to live peaceably with all
men, and it would be most annoying to have a

coolness grow up between the Manor House
and the parsonage. Mrs. Blythe was a proud,
stiff-necked old woman, a Dissenter at heart if
ever there was one, and according to what Mr.
Quorn said, without any legal cause of complaint
against Mr. Denys.

Be advised, dear Henry. Keep quiet.
Don't let people stir up bad feeling," urged
the lady with tender inconsequence.

The clergyman was much consoled, and probably
he was advised, and did keep quiet ; or
if he spoke to Mr. Denys again of the widow's
grievance, it was so privately that nobody ever
heard of it. But nevertheless the annoying
coolness that Mrs. Clarges deprecated made
itself presently felt between the Manor House
and the parsonage. Miss Nancy believed that
if her dear Henry had had the sincerity and
courage to withstand Mr. Denys in the first
instance, Mr. Denys might have been deterred

from his harsh resolve to put the Blythes out
of the Orchard. His compliance had deprived
him of the right to interfere since, and with
the burden of his weakness on her conscience,
she went and confessed it all to Mrs. Denys.
Mrs. Denys heard her to the end in silence,
scared and white in the face as if some sudden,
strong pain had laid its clutch upon her heart.
There was a real, physical agony in her distress,
and when she was able to speak, her voice was
thin and vibrating, so unlike her usual voice
that Miss Nancy was frightened.

'rit was a pity, it was a sad pity  a cruel
sad pity," she repeated over and over, dragging
her words as if in weariness. " What is
the use of preaching Christ on Sunday, and
playing devil's advocate the rest of the week ? "

Miss Nancy clasped her hands, and let the
tears roll down her cheeks : '' I cannot think
how Henry could do it ; for he prefers to be

kind. I wonder if Mr. Denys would listen tome
? "

Mrs. Denys shook her head, with a wan
smile saying : "He will not listen even to me''

But Miss Nancy did not relinquish her
object, and Mr. Denys being unapproachable,
she laid siege to Crump. Crump's initiatory
denial took no effect on her purpose, and Mrs.
Denys saw, before she went to town, how Mrs.
Blythe's hopes were being kept alive by her
promises, and heard when in town through
Phoebe how perseveringly that lay sister of
mercy toiled in her endeavours to keep them.
From the rector she heard nothing. When
she took her leave of him he made a tentative,
self-conscious allusion to the affair of the
Orchard, to which she made no reply.

Perhaps you have been in communication
with my sister Nancy about it ? " Mr. Clarges
said, still hesitating.

*' Yes, I have been in communication with
Miss Nancy," Mrs. Denys answered. And
that was all.

The rector remarked to his bosom counsellor
how difficult it was to speak to a person who
was not in sympathy with you ; which platitude
was the first chill breath of that coolness
between the Manor House and the parsonage
which the poor lady had been so wishful to
avoid.

Ay<

CHAPTER XXXI.

COUNSEL GOOD AND EVIL.

Each one his talent hath, to use at his device."

George Somerville.

The interest that Mr. and Mrs. Denys had
taken in Navestock since its redemption was
rather that of diligent trustees than of owners,
and Mr. Ouorn's stewardship there was a
post of large and honourable responsibilities.
Early in this year Mr. Denys had invited
him to accept a similar post at Cote, and he
had consented, looking forward to those
noble opportunities of usefulness which rising
places create. But a brief tenure of his office
was enough. He was a busy man of high
character and standing in his profession, and

his duties at Cote brought him into cohesion
with men of a very different sort, who treated
with a cynical disregard some questions that
seemed to him of primary importance. He
did not like Old Crump, and he did not like
Mr. Wilton much either. He found Mr.
Wilton sadly backward in scientific knowledge,
and prepared to let Mr. Denys build into
the very foundations of his new town as
many exploded errors as he pleased, quite
unmindful of the sorrows of a future generation
of ratepayers when condemned by a
paternal government to dig them out. He
was just in time to rescue Cote from the
miserable blunder of pouring its sewage into
the sea, but he did not succeed in opening
the eyes of the prejudiced to the fact that
if Cote thirsted for water in the dog-days,
that was because Cote was too pennywise
to provide a reservoir to utilise the water

that ran to waste doAvn the cleft when the
springs were full. Crump and Mr. Wilton
swore by one another  needy, poor fellows
both, united against the common danger of
being pushed from their places. Mr. Ouorn
acknowledged Crump's wisdom in garnishing
spare corners with trees and clothing bare
walls with ivy, which Mr. Wilton pointed
out with elaborate praises, and he acknowledged
the grace of Mr. Wilton's notions
about bringing the landscape into the roads,
which Crump lauded as if the beauty were
of his making ; but Mr. Ouorn had a passion
for thoroughness in things not seen, and both
Crump and Mr. Wilton were rather for making
cheap compromises with picturesque dirt
and disorder than for clearing them away
Mr. Quorn was sure that Mr. Wilton, as an
engineer, would prove a costly failure, and
that as an overlooker of other men's labour

it was time Old Crump was removed ; but
Mr. Denys did not think so, who liked no
discharge but death, and had paid a smart
price for Mr. Wilton's plans.

To Mrs. Denys' infinite regret and chagrin,
Mr. Ouorn made it known while they were
in London that he must decline the stewardship
of Cote. Mrs. Denys had counted on
him to reverse some bad measures before
they ran beyond retrieval, and her disappointment
was acute.

Why ? Tell me why, Mr. Ouorn. I am
sure you have a good reason," she said. " Or
tell Mr. Denys. It may be well that he
should know."

Mr. Ouorn replied that Mr. Denys did
know, but could not enter into his views
cordially enough to persuade him to alter his
decision. To the lady at that time he
avoided saying more, but to Mr. Wilton he

VOL. II. o

said bluntly that he could not afford to take
professional charge of a place that was likely
to bring discredit on him. Mrs. Denys was
aware that he regarded the eviction of the
Blythes  the very backbone of their peasantry
as a mistake of a cruel sort ; and that he
had refused to wink at the removal of their
poor neighbours' landmark on the waste under
the down, where he had ordered Crump to
see taken away a warning to trespassers in
search of nuts. Her hopes of a fairer rule
were at an end, and to her husband she said
that she was very sorry.

Mr. Denys was probably sorry too. He
was certainly inconvenienced, but he could
not dispose himself yet to take advice that
was not agreeable to his inclination. He had
been accustomed to a steward at Cote who
confined himself to a strictly professional
view of his employer's business  the sort of

legal adviser who would not presume to contradict
a gentleman if, in a case of a disputed
right of way to church, he chose to stud one
of his gates with jagged nails, and to tar
another afresh on a Sunday morning.

Mr. Denys had used this man without
trusting him, but some of his neighbours
were less wary, and he lapsed one day into
an error for which Mr. Denys cried out that
he deserved to be struck off the rolls. The
breach of professional etiquette was gross
and dangerous. The steward vapoured, and
discarded his master. Mr. Denys turned
on his heel, and sought a new man  who
was not found yet, when he left town with
his wife at the end of the season.

It was near the middle of July when Mr.
and Mrs. Denys went down to Cote, intending
to spend a few weeks there, and then

to eo to Scotland. But for the shadow at
the Orchard those weeks would have been
a very happy time to Mrs. Denys ; and not
to fall for want of importunity, she spoke
to her husband again of that affair, asking
him if the notice to quit that had been
served on Mrs. Blythe was absolutely irrevocable.
He said in a hard tone that he had no
intention of revoking it ; his decision had been
final from the first. Delia's eyes filled with hot
tears. She longed to entreat for the old
woman, but she was afraid.

One evening early in the previous May,
when little Marie-Irene was at the Manor
House, Mrs. Denys had taken her, and
gone up the fields to the Orchard to say
a word of kindness and good-bye before
their departure to London. Marie Irene
was in great spirits, eager as the birds to
sing, not awakened yet to any sorrow In

the world, but with eyes wide open to Its
beauty. It was a most lovely evening, and
the oaks that year were rich in flower
which honor like golden fringes In the
decllnlnor sun. The child took crreat notice

o o

of the splendid show which she had never
seen before; indeed it was rare to Mrs.
Denys, who asked Mary if it was a common
show up there. Mary could hardly tell ;
but Mrs. Blythe said she had not often
observed it  the seasons brought something
new and strange as often as they came
round. The glow faded even as they
watched It, but it left a solemn reflection on
Marie Irene's fancy, and she went home and
made a parable of It, which she told to her
father, to his great wonder and admiration.
But It would have been surprising, he said, if
she had not had a gift of poctr)

Marie-Irene's first requirement when she

came to Cote for her summer holiday was
to go up to the Orchard again for the sake
of the golden fringes.

*' But they are gone," said Phoebe. " That
was in blossom time  It is near the time
of acorns now."

However, Marie-Irene willed to go, and
Phoebe took her one afternoon with the little
boys, and let them loose to play amongst the
fruit-trees, while she listened and talked to her
grandmother and Mary. She had not seen
them yet since she came back from London,
and had much to hear  how Jack was going
quite out of the country with the railway folks
going to Spain ; and how Richard had inquired
of Crump if there was a chance that he
might get leave to put up a cottage of his own
if he could borrow the money, and how
Crump had shaken his head, and told him
he feared there was none.

I'm coming to the belief that the squire
wants to drive us away from Cote," the
widow added. *' But Richard won't give up
the place where he was born if he can anyways
help it. Miss Clarges is trying what she
can do for us, but I don't expect it is much
she can do. Parson's cottages is all occupied.
There's a house to let at Moffatt's Corner."

'i'd a deal rather move to Cambourne
than go to Moffatt's Corner," Mary said
with a sort of vexed dejection. " I think
it's the dreariest spot on the face of the
earth, is Moffatt's Corner. I'd a deal rather
pine than want fresh air. Bad air is what
I never could abide. And the bairns will
fall sick and die, I know they will."

Other folk's bairns make shift to live
there, Mary  and don't talk of pining.
Richard can't give up his good place, and
winter coins on ; if he did, we might pine,

indeed." The old woman spoke with encouraging
remonstrance. Her burden was heavy
too, but her back was broader to bear it.

Phoebe looked at them both, and looked
round the familiar house-place until she could
not keep from crying. The children had come
running in ; Marie Irene saw their grief, and
with a sweet gentleness enticed the little boys
away again.

Mrs. Blythe gazed after them down the
green path. " She has a soft, loving eye,
like her mother, that pretty little girl," she
said, and in her voice there was a tone of
sorry remembrance.

Phoebe spoke : " Do you recollect, grandmother,
once calling me back when I ran to
open the gate for that poor lady ? The squire
was behind, and heard it. I can see his face
now. I don't believe he has ever forgotten."

Mrs. Blythe knew that he had never forgotten.

She had never forgotten either, and

lately the thought had run much in her mind

that because she had shown no pity to that

misfortune, so no pity would be shown to

her. And after this evenlno-, when Phoebe

put her secret thought Into words, there was

a marked change In her behaviour. She kept

silence on her grievance, and railed no more

against Mr. Denys or Old Crump, but set

her strength towards llohtenlncr their unavoidable

calamity, and saving Mary who shrank

from it with timid foreboding.

 >

"It is the justice of God to vie  it Is nothing
else but the justice of God to me," the old
woman confessed to herself with rigorous, puritan
sincerity ; and one dark day, when Miss
Nancy Clarges had tolled up the hill with a
report of her hopeless task, she confessed the
same to her, biddlnor her cease troubling :
For my downcome has to be," she said.

Miss Nancy carried the poor widow's
touching confession to Mrs. Denys, and
went on to improve the occasion in her
perplexed theological way : '' I was glad
to hear her say that in God's sight she is
guilty, and has earned the reverse she must
suffer. She was unmerciful in her heart to
that sinning woman, and now her unmercifulness
is brought home to her after all
these years. Her trial will be hard to
endure ; for she has a proud spirit. But
God knows best what His frail creatures
need to fit them for His blessed presence.
Henry always says so. She has not been
what we could wash, poor thing, since
this adversity began  too sadly wanting
in humility and submission." Here Miss
Nancy paused with a face of sorrow, then,
as in correction of herself, continued : " I
don't mean that to put her out of the

Orchard Is right or kind, or what we would
like to do ourselves ; but God is pleased to
use means and instruments."

Mrs. Denys was always impatient of Miss
Nancy's pious vein, and her manner was
petrifying as she interrupted : '' My husband
is the instrument of this action which Is not
right or kind and which you would not like
to do yourselves. You seem to lose sight of
his part In the execution of God's justice."

Miss Nancy was grievously dismayed,
and confusedly penitent, but she had faith
in her belief, and though she was sorry to
have offended, she could not unsay her
words. She rather Inconsequently bade Mrs.
Denys try and soften her husband's heart, and
then got away from her on the plea of an
engagement to be kept at the schools.

In her retreat Miss Nancy must have
met Mr. Denys coming towards the Manor

House, for the sound of her voice was still
in Delia's ears when he entered the drawings
Delia's face showed signs of disturbance
which her husband knew perfectly, and
he wanted to know what the disturbance was.
She told him.

Miss Chartres has been here assail about
the Blythes, Hugh. They can find no place
to go into when they leave the Orchard
except that empty house at Moffatt's Corner."
Mr. Denys looked serious, but he offered
no remark. Delia was silent for a minute ;
then with a beating heart she laid her hand
upon his arm, and said with one of those
pretty affectations that became her in excited
moods : " Let not my lord be angry if I
speak to him yet this once  Be pitiful,
Hugh. Forgive that poor soul her want
of charity. You know what I mean ? "

Mr. Denys flushed, and his countenance

fell. " Yes ; I know what you mean," he
said slowly. " But, perhaps, you do not
see all my motives. I have had enough
of the Blythes. They have become troublesome
people on the estate."

'' Hugh dear, in what have they been
troublesome ? They were In their right In
resisting your attempt to stop that road,
were they not ? "

*' Yes ; but a gentleman does not like to
be defied and defeated by his own cottagers.
It is a bad example  a mischievous example."

Delia's pulses were beating more evenly
now. '' I think the bad example was set
higher up. I have no notion of squires and
gentlemen standing on their power to do wrong
as if it were a rlht  making ' their strength
the law of justice,' as the Bible calls it."

Mr. Denys was not In the disposition
to be moved, and it was very inopportune

for Delia's cause that Mr. and INIrs. Essex-brought
sauntered in just then, overhearing
her last words. Mr. Denys was challenged
to explain them, and did.

Mrs. Essex-Brough laughed : " Have you
not agreed on that old affair yet ? Surely it is
not worth quarrelling about so often," said she,
with an air of being tired of it. '' Let the
Blythes go, and have done with them. I
should never think twice about such people."

''If you give way, Denys, you vvill soon have
as many masters at Cote as they have at Cam-bourne,"
Mr. Essex-Brough exclaimed with
peremptory scorn. "You may know how many
factions there are at Cambourne by the testimonials
always flying about the place. It has
come to this, that poor Midas' life is a constant
worry. He has let himself be cajoled here and
driven there until, at last, with old Boreas on
the local board, he is reduced to a nonentity."

'' I will not tempt the fate of Mr. Midas,"
Mr. Denys said drily. " When I have said
a thing I stick to it. My word is my word,
though it turn to my own hindrance. And
I am neither to be cajoled nor driven." As
Mr. Denys spoke he looked up at his wife,
and met her eyes, sad with the sadness of
an extinguished hope.

Mrs. Essex-Brough sat by with a smile on
her face  an unpleasant smile of triumph.
Delia saw it, was angry, and gathering up
her strength for a last effort, said with distinct,
incisive utterance : " Mr. Midas is a landlord
to take out an injunction against, and you, Mr.
Essex-Brough, have helped him to his worst
humiliations. The place is, indeed, very unfortunate
that has him for its head, and if
Hugh takes your advice it will not promote
peace for us ; it will ensure discord and distrust
 the same feelings that are at the root

of the premature decay of Cambourne. There
is no law against the eviction of the Blythes,
but it is obviously unnecessary and unwise,
and the motives from which it is done make
it an ignoble action."

o

When Delia had spoken she walked towards
the door, Mr. Denys with a quick step was
before her, and opened it. She did not trust
herself to lift her eyes, and as he shut her out,
Mr. Essex-brush said with his intelligent
sneer : " Your wife fires great guns, Denys."

"My wife speaks the honest truth," Mr.
Denys answered ; and his friends made no
further remarks on his wife.

CHAPTER XXXII.

A GARDEN SCENE.

The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odour which doth in it live."

Shakspeare.

Mr. Ouorn's refusal of the stewardship of
Cote had not been without its Instructive effect
on Mr. Denys. He had no wish to emulate
the misfortunes and unpopularity of his neighbour
at Cambourne, or to lay burdens on his
lessees for no purpose ; and, at the rector's
suggestion, he invited Mr. Matheson to investigate
Mr. Wilton's plans and revise them.
This gentleman undertook to supplement Mr.
Wilton's plans by way of suggestion, but declined
to supersede him. That the water-supply
was the chief difficulty to be overcome, Mr.

VOL. II. p

Denys knew, and he consented to a scheme
by which the whole first expense must devolve
on himself. He was assured that liberality
would pay in the result.

When a man gets the opportunity of
building a town, he must work for all time,"
said the engineer. " Cote is clear ground yet.
No mistake has been made of sufficient importance
to injure its character. But mark
this, Mr. Denys  your land will bear a population
of three thousand without crowding ;
bring four thousand upon it, and they will not
have elbow-room, and will suffer a dearth of
water in the summer. The ball is at your foot
now : you may make a beautiful, rural town of
it, a joy for ever, or you may copy Cambourne,
where man has done his mean and miserable
best to make the gifts of nature of none effect."

Mr. Denys was moved by the enthusiasm
 of his fresh adviser, and introduced him to

Delia. There was one incident of Mr. Wilton's
plans that Mrs. Denys had always objected to
the main street for shops, which was made
to follow the narrow, sinuous course of the
old high road. Mr. Matheson called it bad,
and agreed with her that an open square in
the centre of the tov/n would be very much
pleasant; and as it was not essential to economise
space, to economise space to the sacrifice
of pleasantness would be a gratuitous blunder.
The idea of a square  a green square  at
Cote was not an orlorlnal idea, but one derived
from some old Continental city that Mrs.
Denys had seen, where the houses stood about
a spacious area, and ancient trees stood for
shade where trees grew before ever the houses
were built. The great field in the midst of
the village next the thatched inn was the site
that she wished to see appropriated. It
possessed an isolated elm-tree of perfect

growth, and on the high side oi it, looking east,
a double row of young lime-trees that might
have been set there for the purpose. Moffatt's
Corner would have to be done away whenever
this idea was carried out : and a very good
thing too, said everybody but Crump and a
few other persons, his contemporaries in moral
development, of whom Mr. Denys was one
until Mr. Matheson's counsels uroed him a
pace or two onwards.

Mr. Denys went to Scotland in a heavy
humour. He was probably dissatisfied with
himself about the Orchard, but he gave no
sien of a chase of mind, nor did Delia
seem to expect any now.

The little boys were left at Cote in charge
of Mrs. Brice, their mother very reluctantly
allowing herself to be separated from them, but
John Denys, who also remained behind at the
Manor House, promised to send a letter everyday.

The letters came  joint contributions, of
which Hugh Oliver's round hand and Willie's
hieroglyphics were not the least Interesting
lines.

'john is very good to his little brothers,"
Delia said tenderly, perusing between tears
and laughter these precious documents.

You have bound him to be food to them.
He would be no son of mine if he were not
good to them," Mr. Denys answered, looking
at her as if there was a word he wanted to
say, if only he knew how.

It was to ask her to send for the children,
and stay in Scotland till the removal of the
Blythes was effected. But Delia enjoyed Cote
in the season, and considered it part of their
duty to keep open house when the village was
full of visitors. Three weeks with the grouse
was enough for her ; but on one pretext or
another, and without rendering his real reason,

Mr. Denys succeeded In keeping her away
from home until the event she had so earnestly
deprecated was over. Phoebe let her
know  Phoebe had shrewdly guessed why the
master delayed to go south ; and perhaps her
mistress was not cheated either, but she said
nothing. Now and always It was her wisdom
not to magnify the evil that she had failed to
hinder, but to get any good out of It that It
could be made to yield.

They returned to the Manor House at the
end of September, and George Denys and
Marie-Irene came the next day to meet them
there. That had been a beautiful September,
and Cote was still full to overflowing. The
people had had a very good season, and where
in good spirits. The church would not contain
the consecration, and the rector beoan to tell
his patron that a new church was a necessity.
Mr. Matheson was In the place, and under his

correction Mr. Wilton was elaboration some
plans of Mrs. Denys' Green Square which had
seized on his imagination so vividly that he
forgot to be jealous of her rival invention, and
doted on the idea as if he had conceived it.

On the high side of the field looking east to
the sea, four acres of uneven ground beyond
the lime-trees were set apart for the new
church and graveyard. Looking towards the
sunset, there was a far and wide prospect over
the inland country, very sweet and peaceful.

"If you bring a townful of inhabitants to
live here, you must surely give them a place to
be buried in, and round the church is the fittest
place for a little town such as Cote will be,"
was Delia's unhesitating opinion ; and Mr.
Denys did not gainsay her.

The north side of the square was assigned
to stalls where things food for food were
to be bought, and the south side to shops

that sold things pleasant to the eye, and on
either side central spaces were reserved as
sites for public buildings. The fourth side
was to be planted with Mrs. Denys' favourite
lime-trees, and left open for the view down a
broad road to the sea, which was the motive
and life of the place, and for glimpses of the
picturesque houses and gardens gathering fast
on the heights north and south of the Cleft.

Your wife has very magnificent notions,
Denys," Sir Thomas Britton remarked when
the sketch-plan was shown him.

Call them pretty notions," Mr. Denys
said, moderate but sincere in his praises.

*' Pretty notions or magnificent notions, they
would not answer at Marshleas. I doubt
whether they will answer at Cote."

Mr. Midas was another critic. Mr. Midas
had notions neither magnificent nor pretty :
We cannot afford this style of thing at Cam-bourne.

I want to make the best of my property.
The houses are springing up Hke toadstools
all over the place. I have just bought a
share in a brewery," said he, and dropped his eyeglass
after a very slight and cursory inspection.

That depends on what you mean by the
best. Fine building has always something
to show for itself," was Mr. Denys' rejoinder.

This was at one of the Thursday afternoon
receptions which Mrs. Denys held in the
Dutch garden. It was very fully attended,
perhaps because it was the last of the season,
or perhaps because it was known that Captain
Meade of Indian celebrity, Guy Francis Meade,
was staying at the Manor House, and stories
of a highly romantic nature were going about,
in which he and Navestock were connected.

Nothing of Captain Meade's strange, eventful
history appeared on the surface. He had
served In the ranks, but there was no sin

of it. His lean athletic figure, and fair, sunburnt
face, were of the same type as scores
of English gentlemen who have had hard
training and done good work in the East.
He had come home to his mother at Updeane
only since the summer, and though his name was
familiar as a household word to the majority
of the gay and fashionable crowd assembled
in the garden, personally he was a stranger
amongst strangers. Mr. Denys had met him
first at Navestock, where he was visiting his
brother, the gentleman-farmer. John Robert
Meade had lately married the second daughter
of Sir Thomas Britton, a good connection,
but little money on either side. Arthur, the
rector of Navestock, had gone to Auldcaster
for a wife, and had chosen Grace Daventry,
sister to Mrs. James Herrick of Knowle,
and cousin to Mrs. Denys of Cote. Guy
Francis was a bachelor, and said he meant

to keep so  with no other fortune than his
sword how could he buy the costly commodity
of a wife ? Besides, he had seen no fair yet,
fair enough to captivate his fancy. And he
had a secret. Mr. Denys had shown him
the beautiful house constructed of the best of
the cut stone and oak timber saved from the
old mansion of Navestock, and had put forward
a plea for inviting him to Cote which
was singular in these modern days, and at
which he had paused for a Vvdiile ; but having
come to the Manor House he showed himself
friendly: 'willing to be treated like a son and
a big brother," as somebody in the neighbourhood
observed to another somebody, who circulated
the observation with notes and addenda.
The little boys had taken to Captain Meade
amazingly. Their mother had said he was
a hero, and Marie Irene had a book of heroes
Jack the Giant Killer and others  out of

which she read to them, giving popular illustrations
to exalt the interest.

'' Captain Meade comes of the ancient family
of Jack the Giant-killer. The giant's castle
was at Navestock. Papa pulled it down, and
it was full of dead men's bones. Then he
built a palace all of marble and glass. Captain
Meade will be Prince there one day."

Will you be Princess, Sissy ? " says Hugh
Oliver; and Captain Meade, who was listening
to the new version of the old legend,
laughed and blushed through all his tan.

The Princess is not discovered yet. Probably
she is sleeping yet," said Marie Irene
in solemn sing-song quite unmoved.

Marie Irene appeared that afternoon as a
slim, dark-eyed, growing girl in a white muslin
dress and blue sash, her Sunday and holiday
dress at the convent. She had a happy, merry
face. Duchess Adela took kind, approving

notice of her, and Lady Herrick whispered
that she would be lovely, like her mother.
She stood in grave simplicity at the hero's
elbow while Colonel Hayman talked long with
him of modern tactics and arms of precision ;
and when the rector sought to be informed of
the real influence of missionaries, she maintained
her position in unconscious peace of
mind. She liked to hear him, and perhaps
he had bidden her stay ; for as soon as they
were released from the clergyman's musing
remarks, they strolled hand in hand down the
broad walk in the midst of the garden, straight
to the sun-dial where Mr. Denys was standing
in conversation with Cousin Elizabeth Paul.

Those premature arrangements seldom
come to anything," Mrs. Essex-Brough confided
to a friend from Cambourne, with gestures
and glances at the two sufficiently
explanatory of her meaning.

On the sunny side of the high dipped hedge
of yew that divided the Dutch garden from
the orchard, Mrs. Denys was pacing gently
to and fro, lending an arm to old Duchess
Adela. She carried in her hands a great
bunch of roses, white-clustered and red and
deep salmon-tinted. She wore a blue summer
dress and straw hat ; for though it was
October the air was soft and delicate. Her
beautiful face had an expression of cheerful
contentment, as if all things were Quoins: will
with her again. She had a character for
diplomacy amongst her intimate friends, and
was being generally credited with the invention
of other schemes besides that of the
Green Square. The bright-eyed, acute elder
lady was at this moment inquiring of her
how much or how little truth there was in
the various rumours that she had lately
heard. Mrs. Denys answered her tranquilly

that there was a body of truth in them all,
but how much of it time might realise only
time could tell. This she said concerning
the chief rumour out of which the rest arose :

Mr. Denys cannot dis entail Navestock,
that we know, but he can if he will make it
better worth Hucrh Oliver's while to leave
than to take it. But it is not on that I count.
My sons must learn to do right. They shall
know that generation after generation death
has disputed with Denys of Cote the title to
what was got by murder and fraud, and that
death has always had the best of it."

You believe the tradition ? " Duchess
Adela said with serious amazement.

I do believe it. I believe that Nave-stock
was cursed for Giles Denys' sake, and
that the curse will pursue his successors until
restitution is made. I did not believe it
once : I made light of it. Since I have

had children to stand in peril, my faith is
quickened."

But your children are not the descendants
of Giles Denys."

If they keep the accursed thing they will
come under his doom. I take God at His
word, and am afraid. Why should my children
die when their lives may be redeemed
by letting Navestock go ? "

Duchess Adela was not prepared to answer
the young mother's appeal. She asked what
Mr. Denys thought.

"Hugh is very good to me. In all that
belongs to the future we consult too-ether.
The day of small things is gone by at Cote ;
we love the place, and shall use it as owners
do use a place they love. It will be a sufficient
inheritance for our eldest son. Wilfred
will have for his portion those lands detached
from Navestock that are not in the old terrier."

'' And what will Captain Meade do for
the gift he is to receive ? Will he some day-marry
that pretty child ? Look at her  he
is telling her some startling adventure, and
she is listening with all her ears."

Through an archway in the yew hedge the
two ladies had come in sight of the group
by the sun-dial. It was to Marie Irene that
the story was being told, but Captain Meade
had other hearers as well. The climax
Alas greeted with an explosion of laughter.
Mrs. Denys gazed at them serenely, and
passed on. Her mind was occupied with
graver considerations than the amusement of
the hour. She did not wish to let misapprehensions
arise, and took pains to clear
away any that her old friend might have
conceived.

'' Captain Meade is free as air. No one
must imagine that there has been any pro-vol.

II. Q

mise," she said. " If he take Marie-Irene,
it will be of her goodwill and his own choice.
He is returning to India next spring, and
she will be safe in her convent for three or
four years to come. If she dream of him
there, she is not likely to be disenchanted
at waking. A girl with any heart and soul
at all must think a little of what a man is,
and what he has done. There is nothing-settled,
nothing certain  indeed, how could
there be ? It is vain to reckon on lone life,
though Hugh comes of a long-enduring race
the Denyses of Acklam have averaged
eighty years  but I have shown you what my
desire is, and it is my dear husband's desire
also."

'then I hope it may come to pass. It
seems a stood desire," Duchess Adela said
warmly, and closed the subject with a kind nod.

The great lady took a cup of coffee, and

then took her leave, which was the signal
of departure for some others of Mrs. Denys'
visitors. There were rich Americans in Cote
that season who had lingered over this day
in the intent to see her, denying themselves
a week of Paris for the conceit of saying at
home that they had been in company with
an Encrllsh duchess. That she was an old
lady of simple manners and unremarkable
appearance, at whom they looked without
speaking, signified nothing ; they went away
deeply gratified, and with profuse thanks
to Mrs. Denys who had afforded them the
coveted opportunity.

Mrs. Denys gave, indeed, much pleasure
to strangers and neighbours, and derived
much pleasure herself, from these easy gatherings
in the garden. She heard repeatedly
that they were good for the place as bringing
together people who would not otherwise

meet, and creating an agreeable society
out of scattered elements. Her position
enabled her to do it without airs of patronage
or any assumption that could chafe the
fretful dignity of lesser or poorer folk. That
Cote should find favour as a winter residence
was a matter that intimately concerned its
permanent prosperity, and houses were hired
that autumn by several families who announced
their intention to stay until the east winds of
the following spring were well over.

This influx of company, with the promise
of abundant work for the labouring people
at levelling and draining the Green Square,
crave a bright look-out for the dull weather.

o o

There had been two cases of fever in the
village during the summer, but they had
been carefully isolated, and the parish doctor
had lately reported to the squire and the
clergyman a clean bill of health.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

LAW AND GOSPEL.
Blessed is he that considered the poor."

There was a small dinner - party at the
rectory that evening, and no placer faces
than the six which assembled at Mr. Caries'
round table about seven o'clock could have
been found in the peninsula. The clergyman
and his wife had the crowd things of
this world in peaceful possession ; Providence
had cushioned them softly against the cares
and anxieties that vex the poor in purse,
and other people's troubles they bore with
that equanimity for which human nature is
proverbial. Mr. Matheson the engineer was
there, radiant with health, courage, and success,

just engaged to the third Miss Britton,
whose views of marriage were the same as her
eldest sister's, who also was present, both
being on a visit at the rectory. Mr. Ouorn
was there, a bachelor of liberal opinions,
whose reputation and fortune were made ;
and Miss Nancy Clarges was there, invited
at the eleventh hour to make up the half-dozen,
and laid under a strict injunction not
to let her eagerness to speak overcome her
politeness, no matter how perplexed by the
gentlemen's ironic method.

Mr. Quorn had been staying for a week at
the inn, winding up some business that he
had begun and not finished when he made
up his mind to decline the stewardship of
Cote. He was an old friend and contemporary
of the rector. Mr. Matheson and
he having taken in company several walks
and rides round the neighbourhood, treated

of what they had seen with the dispassionate
criticism of independent persons amongst their
intimates.

Mr. INIatheson had been divine an account
of his perambulations with Mr. Ouorn that
day, and ended by saying : " You do very
venturesome things in the peninsula, Clarges.
Since I was last here on Mr. Denys' business
he has made preparations to convey to
himself all that common pasture called the
Organs."

I suppose Mr. Denys is acting on the
advice of his solicitor' said the rector.

Mr. Ouorn smiled : '' That is the serviceable
fiction behind which he will be able to retire
without discredit when some inquisitive,
meddlesome person comes forward to question
and dispute his title to his neighbours' fields."

Mr. Denys is lord of the manor," cried
Miss Nancy defensively. Her sister-in-law

tried to frown her into a silence, but Miss
Nancy, though thoroughly disapproving of
Mr. Denys herself, acknowledged him as the
squire, and would have felt it a disloyalty to
sit by and be dumb when a stranger assailed
him. She therefore repeated, and with the
more emphasis because of the attempt to
check her : " Mr. Denys is lord of the
manor  lord of the manor, you know."

"Yes," said the lawyer. "Being shepherd of
the fold, he can shear the sheep at his pleasure.
That is the modern function of shepherds."

Miss Nancy glanced at her brother with a
puzzled face, but there was no solution of the
enigmatical speech for her there. The rector's
hand was shading his eyes, and he was
blushing under that covert.

And that is a hard case about the Blythes,
who have been turned out of the Orchard,"
Mr. Matheson remarked.

As to it's being a hard case, there is
something to be said on the other side," the
clergyman rejoined, emerging into the Hight.

There usually is something to be said on
the other side. What is it ? "

Mr. Denys had no interest in Cote when
the Blythes' lease was granted, and it was
not a lease in perpetuity, as some suppose.
It expired last Christmas. They had six
months' grace to hind a new home, and three
weeks more on account of Richard's wife.
Mr. Denys is quite incapable of an inhumanity.
If Crump told the grandmother she
would never be disturbed, that was only
Crump's way of making things pleasant for
an old neighbour. He had no authority from
Mr. Denys to give any such promise. And
if they have kept the homestead in repair,
and have gone on planting up to the last
season, they did it at their own risk. They

ought to have been wiser than to sink their
little savings in what they had no security of
keeping."

*' Is it true that Mr. Denys determined on
the eviction of the whole family because the
young shepherd stood out for the right of
way that passes through the fields near the
Manor House ? "

I cannot answer for Mr. Denys' motives.
If it be true, It is their own fault. I carried
Mrs. Blythe a message myself from Mr.
Denys, and told her at the same time that
though the locking of the gates was an inconvenience
to me in getting about the parish, yet
I was willing to bear it.'#

Miss Nancy hung her head. Mr. Ouorn
said drily: " And you hoped that might prove
a way of peace ? "

There was a rather prolonged pause. Miss
Nancy burst out in a gust of emotion : '' It

is a pity the road was ever stopped, because it
has broken the habit the poor people in the
out-lying cottages had of coming to church on
Sunday evening. Nobody considered them.
As for Mrs. Blythe, we are all very sorry
for her, but she is a self-opinionated woman,
and has not been to the Lord's Table for
months  never since Henry carried her that
message, though we have said and done everything
in our power to soften her heart."

*' I should give up coming to the Lord's
Table, too, if the parson took the squire's
side when I was being unfairly turned out
of house and home, Miss Nancy," said the
engineer. *' hi fact, I should find it the
harder to forgive him because he is the
parson."

Dear Henry has nothing to do with it,"
cried his sister with irrepressible flow. '' I
am sure if the Orchard bclonircd to dear

Henry, he would never have let her go. But
if Mr. Denys feels differently, the land is his,
and she could not carry the fruit-trees away.
The law gives them to him. And Mrs.
Curlew, papa's aunt, and a most clever
woman, always said that she should have no
scruple at all in taking whatever the law
gave her."

Boswell immortalises a lady Who was of
Mrs. Curlew's opinion," said Mr. Ouorn.
*' She was tried for stealing a counterpane.
The evidence was against her, but the judge,
who had a weakness for the sex, summed
up in her favour. The jury acquitted the
lady, and she said with smiling urbanity, as
she quitted the court : ' Now that the counterpane
is my 01V71, I shall make a petticoat of
it"'

The rector laughed gently, and Miss
Nancy, a little disconcerted  a very little 

laughed too. Mrs. Clarges rose, and said
they must leave the gentlemen to themselves
when they began quoting their witty books.
The gentlemen drew their chairs closer, but
the same subject was continued.

So far as the law goes, Mr. Denys has
nothings to fear on account of his usare of
the Blythes, unless it be a difficulty in finding
a lawyer Who is a gentleman to accept
the stewardship of Cote," Mr. Ouorn said.
'' And, Clarges, old friend, I should like to
know what advantage to a parish it is to
have for pastor a clergyman secure for life
in his benefice, whose notion of being a
faithful shepherd and guardian of his flock
consists in tamely bearing the rich man's
oppression himself, and carrying his threats
to the poor ? "

Mr. Chartres' mild face crew hot. '* But the
law of our country must be our guide when

disputes and difficulties arise," he argued with
quiet pertinacity.

Stick to your own text-book, or take
Sir Thomas Browne's opinion : ' Let not the
law of thy country be the iron ulna of thy
honesty, nor think that always good enough
that the law will make good. Narrow not
the law of charity, equity, mercy. Join Gospel
righteousness with legal right.' "

Mr. Clarges did not relish these admonitions
from the man of the world. He sighed,
closed his eyes for a moment, said he had
done as he would be done by, pushed about
the wine, and spoke of Beauminster  Mr.
Quorn and he were Beauminster scholars of
the same generation. Pleasant, llvel} and
awful reminiscences made the next half-hour
pass swiftly. Mrs. Clarges in the drawing-room
overheard their cheerful voices and
laughter ; and that her husband's rare enjoyment

in his old comrade's company might
not be abridged, she proposed to send them
in coffee instead of a summons to her own
tea-table. Her sister smiled approval, and
Miss Nancy being always an unselfish woman,
and naturally indulgent to the foibles of the
other sex, said tenderly: 'eyes, poor things,
men are like children  fond of a little amusement.
Pray, let them have it."

CHAPTER XXXIV.

UNDER SENTENCE.

'* Death beats with even foot at poor men's doors,
And at the gates of palaces."

Mrs. Denys had not been yet since her
return from Scotland to speak to her poor
neighbours at Moffatt's Corner, but Phoebe
had been, and had reported well of Mr.
Crump as having had the place the Blythes
had gone into put into decent order and
repair. Phoebe was not inclined to say
much, and Mrs. Denys was not inclined to
ask distressing questions. But one brilliant
morning about a week after the reception in
the Dutch garden, Mr. Denys bespoke his
wife's company for a meeting with Mr.

Matheson upon the ground where the new
church was to be, and on their way they met
Mrs. Blythe crossing the held to fetch the
doctor.

*' Poor Mary's very low, and can't tell what
ails her," she said. " Richard's not satisfied,
and she's asked to see the doctor."

The widow was white and tremulous herself,
and in a hurry. She would not have stopped
had not Mrs. Denys stopped first, and in
answering the lady's inquiries she looked at the
squire. She looked at the squire because his
countenance had changed suddenly from an air
of cheerful occupation to one of blank annoyance.
Delia also perceived the change, and
had her own interpretation of it.

They went on, their thoughts distracted from
the previous subject, but absently talking of it
until they were joined by the gentlemen they
had come to meet  Mr. Clarges, Mr. Matheson,

VOL. II. K

Mr. Rufus, a distinguished church architect,
and Mr. Wihon, who had consented to act In
this instance as his clerk of the works. Old
Crump was there too, who doffed his hat to
the lady, and directed an anxious, inquisitive
glance towards his master. That something
had occurred, vexatious and disconcerting to
both squire and agent, was evident to all who
knew them, and the rector sought a word apart
with the squire at once. It was a word that
disquieted him too, but the others were waiting,
and they turned to their business.

That was to decide on the precise spot
where the church must stand. There was a
good deal of measuring and movlns: to and fro,
and surveying distances, but the final judgment
was that it must stand on the highest
level, and opposite to the broad Cleft Road,
at a point where it might be spied by ships
far out at sea. Bv the time this decision was

arrived at, Mrs. Denys was thoroughly tired,
and leaving what else needed settling to be
discussed in her absence, she walked straight
to Moffatt's Corner, and knocking at Mrs.
Blythe's open door, asked if she could come
in, and rest a little. Mr. Denys saw by the
direction of her steps whither she was going,
and Mr. Clarges made a start to call her back,
but paused half-way in his deliberative fashion,
and before his mind was made up what to do
for the best, Mrs. Denys had entered, and the
door was shut.

The house-place inside was as white and
clean as hands could make it ; the old clock
with its familiar beat, the dresser, and window-towers
were all there as at the Orchard, and
everything had the customary aspect of thrift
and orderliness. Mrs. Blythe had got back, but
the doctor had not been yet. He was out on
his rounds when she went, but would be sure

to call In when he heard  she had every confidence
in Mr. Swift, she said, with an anxious
reassure look towards her daughter-in-law.

The young woman Alas sitting listlessly in
the rocking-chair by the window with her baby
in her lap, and her little boy playing at her
feet with a new toy cart and horses. Mrs.
Denys took notice of him, and his mother
turned her eyes, wan and filling with tears,
upon the child.

"His father brought 'em from Michaelmas
Fair to coax him stop indoors," she said.
*' They are a rough lot the neighbours here,
and I can't bide to let him go with the bairns,
and learn bad words. I'm always telling
grandmother we had better have gone out o'
Cote altogether than have come here."

Perhaps if she could have known what a
cruel reproach she was preparing for the poor
old woman, Mary would not have said so so

often. Mrs. Blythe was making dinner ready
against Richard's coming home at noon, and
her withered hands shook as she went on
peeling potatoes and dropping them into a
bowl of water.

Suddenly Mary cried out : " Open the door,
grandmother, or I think I shall faint ! "

Mrs. Denys, who was next the door, opened
It quickly, and the widow went in haste and
brought a cup of water, which she fetched from
the pump that was common to all the houses
at the Corner. After Mary had drunk, the
little boy drank copiously too.

'' I'm feeling very ill," Mary said, and was
silent a minute or two, watching dully the
stir and movement in the distance. " What
may the gentlemen be doing, ma'am, so busy
over yonder  is it building they are thinking
of ? " she asked with wears languor.

Mrs. Denys explained that the new church

was to be built there : " You will see it from
where you sit, rising day by day. It is to
be a large and very beautiful church. They
tell me that it will be five years in building'*

I shall not live to see it above the foundations.
It is borne in on my mind that I
shall not live to see the trees bud again 
yet I should ha' liked to see them. It was
so bonny at the Orchard i' the spring-time.
Richard set a golden pippin when our first
little lad was born ; he didn't set none for
this one because we was condemned to q-q.
But life's soon over. We all do fade as a
leaf," she ended with a sigh. And from the
lime-trees in her sight fell softly a shower of
yellow leaves.

Poor lass, thou's out o' spirits. But
thou'U not be so easy quit o' this trouble 
some world," Mrs. Blythe said with a vigorous
effort at a rally. '' Thou must bide, an' fend

for thy chiltern thyself. I've had tolling and
moiling wi' chiltern enough, an' my day's
work should be well nioh done."

You'll not be plagued wi' 'em long,
grandmother. When death takes me, he'll
leave the door upo' the latch, an' come again.
I'm heart-sore for Richard, that I am. If
we'd gone to Cambourne, then maybe I
might ha' been spared."

Don't give up yet, Mary, and I promise
you this  if I live to see the trees bud again,
you shall have a home in a sweeter spot 
you shall, you shall, indeed," Mrs. Denys said
with energetic feeling.

o o

*' There's Mr. Swift coming  we'll hear what
he says," Mary rejoined with a feeble smile,
and held out her hand in thanks to the lady.

It was the last time. Mrs. Denys did
not see her again ; for what Mr. Swift said
was that he desired everybody who had not

business at Moffatt's Corner to keep away.
Phoebe had to keep away Hke the rest, or
quit the Manor House altogether, and night
after night cried herself to sleep for pity of
her people. It was the fever, and the dread
of it trenched on the comfort and prosperity
of the whole village, from the highest to the
lowest in it  this revival in the decline of
the year recalling a former visitation of great
severity.

One afternoon late in the month Mrs.
Denys betook herself to the Dutch garden
with a weight on her spirits that she could
not throw off The fall of the leaf was lovely
that year, gradual and slow, and the airs of
summer lingered long. But the serene, grave
composure of the garden oppressed her more
and more. In vain was the blue sky dappled
with sunny fleeces, in vain sweet herbs

and scented bushes gave out their odours,
and the rich crimsons and purples, scarlet
and yellows of the autumn flowers blazed
in their orreen enclosures. She had neither
eyes nor heart for any of these simple joys.
A robin was singing enchantingly from a
russet briar, but she had no ears for his
song. The sorrow amongst her poor neighbours
had seized on her imagination, and possessed
her for the time like a personal calamity.
She changed the scene, and went to her
beautiful drawing-room, but she could not
chancre her mood. The fire was shlnlne
ruddily in the half-gloom, and beyond the
great window lay that glorious picture of the
sea in repose that had charmed her at her
bringing home to Cote on her wedding-day.
Through the open door she heard the little
feet and voices of her children coming up
the stairs, and went to meet them. Wilfred

wanted to know why his mother's face was
wet when he kissed her, and Hugh OHver,
seeing that she wore her hat and cloak,
wished to go out walking again with hen
But she had done her walking for that afternoon,
and took them to her boudoir instead,
to be amused by their chatter in the twilight
till her husband came home. It was the first
day of the hunting-season, and he had been
away since the morning in the company, as
usual, of Mr. and Mrs. Essex-Brough.

From her boudoir window Mrs. Denys could
see the gate and two gentlemen on the road
outside, who met, exchanged a few words,
and parted abruptly at the sound of the church-bell.
They were Mr. Swift and Mr. Clarges.

The doctor was a man of dry sarcastic
humour, which he could afford to indulge, not
being bound to live by his practice. The
poor liked him  they said he was so tender;

but there was not much tenderness in his

rejoinders to the clergyman's remarks. Some

strong things had been said, unadvisedly
00 

said, against Mr. Denys in reference to the
eviction of the Blythes from the Orchard,
and the rector was pleased to stand forward
as his defender. The squire would have preferred
his silence.

*' Mr. Denys was strictly within his right,
and not only that  he was considerate, and
even generous, to the widow, who is proud
and obstinate to the last degree. Richard's
wife would have crone to Cambourne thankfully.
If it was necessary for them to
clear out of the Orchard (and it was necessary),
they where not forced to go to MofTatt's
Corner." Thus the rector.

'' Certainly not  dien the world was all
before them where to choose. Unreasonable
people, they will be asking next for a

span of your freehold. Hark ! there it
goes."

The church-bell jangled, then tolled one,
and stopped. After the lapse of some minutes
it began again, and continued tolling.

Phoebe came hurriedly in : " Oh, dear mistress,
it is for poor Mary and the little baby
both. I must go  I must go to grandmother,"
she cried, and burst into a passion of tears.

'' Kiss the children, and go," Mrs. Denys
said, putting a strong constraint on herself,
but her tears gathered thick and fell too.

Hugh Oliver stood seriously aghast at
the strange spectacle of Phoebe crying, but
Willie was touched with sympathy, and had
to be hushed and comforted in his mother's
arms. She took him on her knees by the
window, and bade him look out for papa
in his fine red coat. Hucrh Oliver came
to look out also, and there they were, and

the death-bell still going, when Mr. Denys
rode in at the gate. The elder boy rushed
away to meet him, but Delia stayed where
she was, and let him seek her.

He came straight upstairs, slowly and heavily,
like a man who is reluctant or very tired.
Delia moved towards him with Willie clinging

o o

to her neck. " You know what has happened,
Delia, by that dreadful bell," he said.

Yes, dear," was her answer with an
irrepressible sob.

Send the children away. I want to talk
to you."

I cannot. Phoebe has gone to her poor
old grandmother."

Mr. Denys rang the bell, and Mrs. Brice
appeared. Willie pouted at going, but was
carried off, his mother attending to his whimpering
cry, which increased in pitifulncss
with the distance. She could only half listen

to what her husband said  which was nothing
after all but extenuations of the hard decree
of which these deaths were sure to look to
his neighbours like the cruel consequences.
Delia's own heart made excuses for him that
he could not have made.

'' I know you are sorry, I am sure you
are sorry. You could not foresee that they
would be the innocent sacrifices," she said.

I met Swift. He told me that the well
at Moffatt's Corner ought to be sealed up.
He has warned the labourers on the church
ground not to drink there."

Delia had turned to the hearth, and was
eazino into the fire. She said nothings,
remembering Mary's depression and loss of
heart in the prospect of change, and of the
miseries the change implied.

Mr. Denys went on : " Swift confesses that
his craft are not very intelligent in the treatment

of fevers yet. We have had this fever
at Cote, you know how often. It reappears
in the same houses. Essex-Brough and his
wife are o'oInQr to Cambourne to - morrow.
Would you Hke to remove with the children
to Acklam, Delia ? "

'' Not unless you desire it. I should not like
to forsake the place while it is under this
cloud. The Manor House is healthy. The air
is sweet, the water is good. No doubt, those
poor souls at Moffatt's Corner were poisoned."

Mr. Denys moved to the window. The
bell had ceased now, and the October night
was closing darkly in. The boudoir was
almost in the dark too. Mrs. Den's was
excited, had some latent fears perhaps. She
fancied she heard Willie still wailing but
it was only fancy. Willie was sitting on the
rumor in his white frock and crimson sash leaning
pretty curled head against Phoebe's empty

chair, and watching the door till his mother
came to carry him to the drawing-room, asher
custom was for the last few minutes before
dinner and his bed-time. Hugh Oliver was
underoroincr his toilette. Phoebe's absence had
a little disorganised things. There was no
light in the nursery but the firelight, and the
leaping flames made grotesque shadows, mopping
and mowing upon the walls.

The door was ajar, and the little boys heard
their father's step approaching first. Willie goton
his feet, calling to him : " Papa, papa," and
then mamma came in like a shining angel, and
lifted him in her tender arms.

My head, mother, my head," said the child,
and crowded down, his hot cheek against the
cool rose of hers.

'' Willie is not like himself. What does my
Willie want ? " she whispered back. '' What
does my sweet Willie want ? "

Willie wanted to lie where he was, and for
auofht he knew, wanted nothing else. His
father saw something in the child's countenance
that alarmed him, and Delia caught his
alarm.

Oh, Hugh, is the curse coming home tous
? " she said. " Pray, send for ]mr. Swift.
The children have been at the Glen House all
the afternoon ; they are there constantly."

Mr. Swift could say nothing satisfactory when
he came. The child's symptoms were grave.

The shock to Delia was terrible for the
moment. She could not rest all night, and
when she fell into a broken slumber as the day
dawned, her mind, wandering on the confines
of sleep and memory, betrayed recollections
and thoughts and fears that were a torture to
her husband.

She laughed to herself, whispering low :
'' Hugh asks me why I cannot sing. Agnes

VOL. II.

had a 7nost sweet voice. The nightingale sings
with a thorn in her heart : but I had none.
. . A Httle bird came to the window  it had
a broken wing  we put it in Wile's cage 
he is so good, my Wile  / am Diis 77other, yoti
know ; ask God to spare him. . . . Listen ! it is
the death-bell, Hugh  once for a child, twice
for a woman, thrice for a man. Yoic shall not
have a silent fttnera.l, deans; you shall have singing.
. Our Father which art in heaven "

Mr. Denys spoke at his wife's ear : " Wake
up, Delia, wake up. This is worse than no
sleep at all. You are light-headed."

I was saying my prayers  a great comfort,
dear ; I wish you knew it. I have not had a
brood nioht, but I shall have strength for the
day. I have always found it so. If anything
can be done for those poor people at Moffatt's
Corner, let it be done. I will go to the nursery
now. and Mrs. Brice shall take some rest."

CHAPTER XXXV.

BEYOND RETRIEVAL.

The hand of the Lord hath wrought this : in whose hand is the
soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind" y<3<.j

It was the old familiar story that will bear
no honor telling Death had knocked first at
the poor man's door, and waiting there cast
his shadow across the rich man's path.

When Willie had been ill a week his father
asked Mr. Swift : " Will the child die ?" and
the doctor said : " The child will die."

Delia felt as if she had known it from the
becrinninor and when the hour came she bore
her agony bravely. She let Mrs. Brice take
the little wasted body, and went to her husband,

who seemed the worst smitten of the
two when the end came.

God be good to both of us, dear Hugh,"
she said, and knelt down by him, leaning her
brow against his breast, and crying.

*' It is over ? " he asked hoarsely.

Yes, thank God. It was very pitiful to
see him suffer."

'' I know  I know."

The next day came Mr. Clarges to offer
ghostly comfort. He followed the servant
up the stairs, and through the open door
heard Mrs. Denys' plaintive, tired voice
replying to the inquiry whether she would
receive his visit : " No, Hugh ; I am in
trouble. The little man has no message forme
now : let him come at another time."

Mr. Denys went out to his friend With a
palliating word, but it seemed a very unkind
cut to the clergyman. Mrs. Blythe had refused

his alms and ministrations too. Womanlike.
Women expect their clergyman to do
and say the thing that is right, and not the
mere thing that will please whether lover or
adversary, and the rector had broken this
law of simplicity and truth. He was confused
and angry more than he was hurt,
but his wife discouraged his pious indignation.
She said he must take no notice of
Mrs. Denys' repulse ; he must let it pass,
and forget it. His sister Nancy was more
faithful. She told him that it was his one
fault, which had been a cloud between him
and other poor souls in mourning, though
not, perhaps, so conspicuous in their mourning
as the squire's wife and the old widow
from the Orchard, of whose tragedy all the
world round Cote was talking.

It had run into a tragedy, indeed. The
elder boy had died like a moth in a flame,

suddenly ; and Mrs. Blythe, worn out with
nursing and frenzied with grief, took on so
violently after, that her grandson Richard,
yielding to the advice of Mr. Swift, had let
her be moved by the parish. It was a cruel
stroke, but it was done before Mrs, Denys
heard of it. Phoebe came home again to
the Manor House, and the whited sepulchre
at Moffatt's Corner was finally shut up on
the day that little Wilfred Denys was carried
to his burial. It was only a few steps
from the late to the irave, but the village
folk thronged the way, telling terrible tales
one to another, while they waited for the
procession, of what had been in days gone
by.

It is the curse. Denys has earned a new
lease of it," said the patriarchal Todd to
Crump, his contemporary ; and Crump did
not say nay, but chaffered with blue lips,

and stared into the distance, his visage bitter
with anxiety and distress.

The women had gathered about the mound
newly raised on the spot where Mary and
her children were sleeping. Richard was
away with his sheep on the down ; for labour
goes on and life goes on, and men leave all
things behind them.

The squire's wife came with him, and heled
his other little son by the hand. John,
George, and Marie Irene followed, and a few
of the servants.

"He has his lion-look, the squire ; trouble
takes no hold on him at all," Todd remarked
again to Crump ; but Crump did not think
so.

The child was laid in that enclosure under
the chancel window where Mr. Denys' other
dead were laid. The rector of Navestock had
come over to take part in the service, and

several other gentlemen had come as a mark
of respect. Mr. Denys felt that he could have
dispensed with It. He disliked demonstrations
for his own part, and was sure these
neighbours and friends of his would indulge
in reminiscences and curious speculations how
he viewed this death of his little son, and
would view it themselves in the lurid licht
of the tradition belonging to his predecessors
at Navestock and Cote. And some of them
did so, in fact.

Mrs. Denys' fortitude had been wonderful
since the child died, but her husband had fallen
at intervals into deep depression. She could
not look into his heart. His grief was not
single and simple as hers was, but from words
that escaped him she knew that he had a sense
of guilt towards her, and of pity as If her
bereavement was his doing. She had to be
strong for both. They were standing together

by the little coffin when it was closed, and
seelne his gloom, she said in a natural, broken
voice : " Cheer up, dear Hugh ! It is the
Lord  let Him do what seemeth Him best ;"
and there was no revolt in her heart against
God then or ever. At the grave, before all
these spectators, Mr. Denys kept up and
seemed himself, but when Hugh Oliver hid
his red eyes and quivering mouth against his
father's sleeve, and the earth rattled on the
coffin  '' Earth to earth, dust to dust, ashes to
ashes"  his head dropped with a groan, and
a shudder convulsed his powerful frame.

The great force and nobility of Mrs. Denys'
mind was from this time brought into fuller
exercise. Her husband turned to her from all
others, and trusted in her before all others.
They had lost so much of what goes to make
life o-Qod and clad that it behoved them to
gather up the fragments if they would not

suffer worse spoliation  the loss of heart, hope,
and energy; and where his failed, her high
courage came to the rescue.

Her friends remarked on Mrs. Denys as a
miracle of resignation. Mrs. Moth opined that
she was not perhaps a very affectionate mother
to her children. There was, indeed, a peace
in her sorrow that surprised herself ; for she
missed the dear little fellow out of her life,
out of every waking hour of her daily life.
She was always fond of having her children
about her. Their chatter was delightful to her.
The loved one another, and Huorh Oliver had
exercised a benevolent despotism over Wilfred,
to keep him out of mischief, and guide him in
the way he should go, that was both useful
and amusing. He did not part with his little
brother all at once. It had been Willie's business
and pleasure to feed the birds that came
to the nursery window, and Willie's robin was

a character that figured in Hugh Over's
breakfast-table conversation all throiuMi the
cold weather. Willie's toys, especially the old
ones, were set In order, and the order of them
was constantly changed as he had changed it
only his drum was never beaten, nor his
trumpet blown. Phoebe had made a warlike
trophy of these with his tin sword and red
leather trappings above the chimney-plecej and
there they hung through many a dusty year,
sacred to his innocent memory as other trophies
of arms are sacred in other homes out of which
a soldier son has gone who returns no more.
Willie's books were brought regularly to his
mother's table, and laid open at some favourite
picture that he liked to have done into a story.
Hugh Oliver could read for himself, and now,
when he sat on the floor beside her, there was
silence in the room for quite long spaces. It
was very different to the busy, restless hour

when there were two of them. Hush Oliver s
pious acts in commemoration of his brother
fell one by one into disuse, but their mother
never ceased to cherish sweet thoughts of her
little child who was Crone, and continued to
visit the nursery window and feed the birds,
and to call the robins " Willie's " when Willie,
had he lived, would have been a man.

The fever did not stop at Moffatt's Corner
and the Manor House. A young labourer at
drainage work on the Green Square died of it,
and two other men similarly employed fell ill,
but recovered. A servant at the Glen House
died, and the only child of a family of strangers
in the place. All the visitors that could left
Cote, and Mr. Swift put it very plainly to Mr.
Denys, that unless certain root-and-branch
reforms and regulations were expedited, this
episode of misfortune would be prolonged.

Mr. Ouorn reappeared on the scene, and Mr.
Denys heard him again on some matters which
had previously been in dispute between them.
A considerable piece of land bordering on the
old hicrh road was laid out for building cottage-es,
with gardens in front and rear enclosed by a
well-set hedge of holly, and planted with fruit-trees
which Mrs. Denys provided. These
cottages were her peculiar charge ; and the
numerous inquiries for them, before they were
half ready to be occupied, proved how great
was the need of them felt by industrious
labourers and workmen established for some
years in the village. A third engineer, introduced
by Mr. Ouorn to consult with Mr.
Matheson, did not advise the storage of water
when an ample supply, flowing fresh from its
source, could be had by the diversion of the
stream that ran through the Cleft. This
seemed a strong, even suicidal, measure to the

native folk, who regarded the Cleft as their
peculiar charm, singularity, and attraction ; but
Mr. Denys bowed to professional authority,
the water-works were urQfed forward without
delay, and a landscape-gardener was employed
to beautify the grey shallows of the ravine with
home and foreign ferns, flowers, and shrubs,
such as grow wild in moist and shady places.

Crump went over to the party of sound
progress. '' I tell you the Cleft will be
very pretty when the season comes. What's
prettier than flowers or sweeter ? " was his
surly, consoling rejoinder to his remonstrative
neighbours. " The squire's lady is seeing toit
all herself, and sparing no money for seeds
and cuttings. Mr. Ouorn talked of a reservoir,
so he did, under the down and over our
heads ; but these young engineer fellows say
that our geological formation is not suitable
to a reservoir, and if ever we oot one made,

It would burst some fine day, and wash us
all to kingdom come  which none of us is
prepared for, I expect." With this dum-foundering
argument the old agent hobbled
away, grumbling, but satisfied that he had
laid hold of the thing by the right handle,
and that the contrary voices would acknowledge
it by and by.

Crump spoke of Mrs. Denys as seeing to
the adornment of the Cleft herself. Mr. and
Mrs. Denys saw to many things themselves
this winter. It was better to be up and
doing than to sink in despair for what was
beyond recall, though the effort was a weariness
often. i\Ir. Essex-brooch had taken

o

his wife and his horses, and had gone into
Leicestershire for the rest of the hunting-season.
There was no company at the Glen
House to entice Mr. Denys away from home,
and he reverted to Delia's society as in the

first days of their marriage. Phoebus was
brought out of his stable, and she was persuaded
to ride with him again ; she even rode
once or twice to see the hounds throw off,
that he might not deny himself his healthful,
customary pursuit because she refused to
share it. The mail-phaeton was in frequent
requisition, and Hugh Oliver, lonely without
his brother, sat through many a
sunny cold drive, warmly cherished between
his father and mother. They carried him
with them to Navestock now whenever they
went there.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

FRUIT IS SEED.

All was ended now, the hope, and the fear, and the sorrow ;
All the aching of heart, the restless, unsatisfied longing ;
All the dull deep pain, and constant anguish of patience."

Longfellow.

At Christmas the dull, slow current of time
was broken into eddies again by the arrival
of John Denys with a young companion chosen
for life, a girl good and pretty enough to please
all the Avorld, and perfectly suited to the one
whom her qualities and charms most concerned.
She was called Eleanor. George
was gone to Rome, and was absent that year,
but Marie Irene came as usual, welcome as
sunshine and music to the old house lying
dark and quiet in the shadow of death.

VOL. II. T

All the servants were glad of her. Everybody
was glad of her. She was a reason for
putting off gravity and beginning to smile
again. But her eyes showed the quick tears
often at first  when Hugh Oliver pattered
downstairs alone, running after Sissy, when
she saw the trophy Phoebe had set up in
the nursery, and the one grave more in the
churchyard. But most when she looked into
her father's face.

Mr. Denys' gloom did not pass, and there
seemed no remedy. Mr. Swift promised his
wife that it would clear away  as he had
watched it clear away after his former more
terrible bereavement  but she must wait.
Meanwhile he directed her to encourage her
husband's active interest in the various works
going on in the place, and to keep him up to
the sports that where naturally his delight.

The arrival of the young people was a great

help to Mrs. Denys. Every fine hunting
morning saw a large party riding off to the
meet, and every evening was enlivened by
the bubbling over of happy hearts whose joy
was not to be suppressed by others' sorrow.
John's Eleanor was a sweet singer, and
nothing soothed and softened Mr. Denys
like a song. He would leave the door open,
and go away to his own room, and listen in
the distance. Marie Irene was a singer too,
not accomplished yet, but as finely gifted asher
mother had been. It was a good sion
when Mr. Denys began one night to talk of
her to Delia, anticipating the time when the
little girl would equal her mother In performance.


The next day after this he called for her
to go out with him, and they took the road
across the fields, going up to the Orchard.
All was bare and bleak, but Marie Irene

remembered the beautiful golden fringes on
the oaks and the blossoming fruit-trees in
spring, and talked by the way of how she
liked to eo there when Phoebe's grandmother
lived in the comfortable thatched cottage 
ending with the inquiry where she lived now ;
for no one had told the little girl that part
of the cruel, sad story.

Mr. Denys seemed not to hear  he did
not answer whether he heard or not, and
Marie Irene, accustomed to respect his silence,
did not press the question, and held her
peace until they came to the gate. Already
an air of forlornness was creeping about the
place, and Mr. Denys walked in to make
an inquisitorial tour of the premises where
the new tenants seemed likely to prove a very
bad exchange for their predecessors. Nobody
was at home. A lean and hungry
cat dozed in the chill sun on the top of the

water-butt. A sow with a numerous progeny
had left her sty to roam and root In the
garden. The squire Hastened at the door, but
heard no cheerful tickle of domestic clock.
He peered through the clouded window-panes,
but there was no warm gleam of home-keeping
fire in the rusted grate. There was very
little furniture, and that of a wretched sort.
As Mr. Denys came out and shut the gate, he
muttered that the place did not look like itself
it was oroinor to wrack and ruin as fast as
it could Q-Q,

It might be haunted," said Marie-Irene.
I should think the spring could never have
the heart to come here any more."

Mr. Denys smiled in his grim fashion, and
replied : "I never knew the spring lose Its
way yet, my little Marie. When )'ou return
at Easter, spring will travel with you."

They are nut a// dead, papa  but where

are the others ? Phoebe will not tell me 
she only cries, or gets angry."

*' Richard is with his sheep, no doubt. The
old grandmother is drowsing by the fireside,
perhaps."

*' By whose fireside, papa ? She was always
busy in the day-time. I cannot understand
it. Do you know whose fault it was that
she was sent away ? Old Crump is sorry 
was he to blame ? "

No ; Old Crump was not to blame. No
one is to blame unless it be I."

"You, papa?" Marie Irene looked up,
awed, amazed, and never word more spake
she of the Orchard or of the people who had
been cast out thence, a prey to poverty and
death. It was her first acquaintance with the
mystery of evil in the world.

In February, when the Manor House was

restored to Its normal stillness, when the
young married people had gone to their home
in London, and Marie-irene had returned
to her convent school, Mr. Denys began to
grow very restless, and Delia proposed a
chancre.

'' Let us Q-Q over the o-round again where
we travelled the spring after we were married,
Hugh, and end in Rome. We were very
happy that Easter in Rome ; and George
weill be glad to see us," she said.

Mr. Denys consented. Then came the
question what to do with Hugh Oliver.
You are afraid to leave him, Delia ? " her
husband suggested, noticing that her cheek
whitened at the thought of it.

But she denied the fear. '' Oh, no, Hugh.
I can trust him to Mrs. Brice. We are all
In God's hands," was her answer. " Cousin
Elizabeth Paul will write as often as we wish.

Or he miorht even q-q to her house  it is bright
and dry up there, sunny and pure air Hke
the Orchard."

But a medium course was discovered, a
better course. Hugh OHver was committed
to the charge of a young widow lady who
had lost her husband in India, and had come
to settle at Cote  Mrs Consett. She had
little boys of her own, and little girls also 
plenty of company for Mr. Denys' only son,
and good company ; for they were a vigorous
and healthy flock. Hugh Oliver was extremely
happy amongst them. His mother heard of
him there as quite contented, and her absence
was not very long. The journey to Italy began
and ended prosperously, and the travellers
were at home again early in May, both visibly
improved in spirits by it, and Mr. Denys to
all appearance quite himself once more, both
in health and humour.

On the Saturday after their return to the
Manor House, Mrs. Denys got a message
by Phoebe from the place to which her
grandmother had been removed, to the effect
that the poor old woman was restored so far
as her mind was concerned, but reduced to
such a condition of weakness that there was
reason to apprehend danger to her life. The
purport of the message was to ask whether
Mrs. Denys would wish to see her. Mrs.
Denys did wish it, and the following afternoon
caused herself to be driven four miles to the
union house, Phoebe having suggested that
on Sunday all would be quiet there, and in
its best order.

Mrs. Denys shuddered as she entered this
doleful refuge of the destitute. Mrs. Blythe
was in the infirmary, and thither the matron
conducted the lady by stone passages and
stone stairs that felt chill and dank, though

the air was like summer out of doors. There
were several inmates of the sick ward, some
in bed, and some sitting on benches against
the white washed wall. Mrs. Blythe was
amongst the latter. Mrs. Denys did not
recognise her until she was pointed out  her
erect figure was so shrunken and bent, and
her visage, once a picture of cheerful, hale
old age, so wrinkled, wasted, and sad.

'' Do you know me ? " asked the visitor,
taking one of the limp, feeble hands that lay
folded over the other in her lap.

*' Yes  it's Mrs. Denys," the poor soul
answered, gazing at her while her dim eyes
filled with water, and every muscle of her
face quivered. The matron bade her not
fret when the kind lady was come to see
her.

'you are much better," Mrs. Denys said,
speaking in a mild, authoritative voice as

one speaks to a fractious, sick child. " Would
you like me to take you out of this place ?
I will, if you like ? "

''No, thank you; I'll bide where I am till
Richard comes. He's coming soon. It might
be tomorrow."

Mrs. Denys looked round the faint, bare
ward inhabited by blue-striped cotton shapes
of women. The Widow Blythe was a blue-striped
cotton shape like all the rest. It
was very difficult for her to talk, but there
was the natural desire to be polite to her
visitor, and the matron urged her to say
something. She contemplated Mrs. Denys'
black dress reflectively for some time, and
then inquired if she had lost anybody.

I have lost one of my boys, the younger
of the two. You remember Master Wilfred ? "
was the gentle answer.

Phoebe did not say." There was another

pause for thought, and then in a weak, carefully
steadied voice, the old woman proceeded
to make conversation. " You would pass the
Orchard, ma'am how was the fruit-trees looking
this beautiful afternoon ? "

I scarcely noticed them, Mrs. Blythe. I
was thinking of other things. But there was
a splendid show of bloom a week ago. We
saw it as we drove down the hill to the
Manor House on arriving."

Ay, so there was here a splendid show
o' bloom, but on Thursday night there came
a frost, and in the morning it was like as if
the ground was covered with snow. They
won't have a good year for cherries, nor yet
for plums. They may save a fair lot of
apples. Phoebe told me Leesons have the
Orchard now. I hope they'll keep a watch
on the stripy, black caterpillar  but I don't
expect it. Putting Tom Lesson into a garden

was about as wise-like as setting a tailor to
plough. It will tell a tale if he leaves it to
itself, as he leaves most things."

Explain to me what the caterpillar does,
and I will speak to Tom Lesson myself about
it."

' It comes in a sort o' web, thin as smoke,
and full o' black dots no bigger than a pin's
point. If they're not removed they'll eat the
leaves to a skeleton, and the fruit drops afore
it's half grown. The apple-trees takes the
blight worst, but I've seen it on the plums
too. Mary and me used to get a pitcher o'
boiling water and the bier sitters, and eo
round the trees in the mornings when the
sun was shining  we could s'vAit the webs
best i' the sun. If we missed one here and
there, and they came to knots o' caterpillars,
Mary's hold the pitcher at arm's length  she
was always timid, poor lass. Will you tell

Leesons they must give 'em no quarter  if
you would be so good, ma'am ? "

'' I certainly will," Mrs. Denys promised.
The matron encouraged the old woman to
talk on, saying that the effort was doing
her a benefit already. Mrs. Blythe smiled
as if she felt it all very childish, and a
condescending to humiliating, sad circumstance.


There was one other thing I wished to
name, but I seem to forget it," she continued,
lifting a hand to her head for a moment.
Then, with a sudden clearing of her confused
memory : " Oh, it's about the orange pippin,
a little summer apple, very sweet, that Mr.
Clarges is fond of. Leesons might like to
know as we sent him the first we gathered,
as soon as ever they was fit  a nice basketful.
They've got none o' that sort in the parsonage
o-arden."

I will be sure to tell them. And shall
I carry any message to Mr. Clarges ? He
will be pleased to hear that you think of old
times."

Mrs. Blythe's countenance fell, and she did
not answer until the matron spoke, repeating
the lady s question  had she any message to
send to Mr. Claroes ? "I don't know that I
have any message in particular," she said then.
When ]diary was ill, and not likely to live,
he came in, and laid half a sovereign down
on the table ; I pushed it away, and told
him I didn't want his charity  and after that
they'd to bring me //;r." Her pitiful look
and voice were as if she would have asked,
could pride have a greater fall ? She stopped
a minute, collecting her strength, and then
continued : '' There's a deal o' things perplexing
besides the blight. Mr. Clarges says,
when we have a wrongs that beats us we

must submit, and leave it in higher hands.
That made my Richard laugh. It's easy
leaving it in higher hands, he says. ' Fear
God, and take your own part'  that's his
maxim."

'' And a very sound maxim too, Mrs.
Blythe."

The widow was silent, turning her eyes
away to the blank wall. Mrs. Denys was
silent also. The scene was truly painful.

And you expect Richard, perhaps tomorrow,
Mrs. Blythe ? " the lady said, preparatory
to taking her leave.

Yes, perhaps tomorrow  or if not tomorrow,
then the first day he can be spared.
I can be no help much to him now, poor
fellow, but he's promised he'll take care of
me." Her mouth worked, she could say no
more.

You are still weak, but don't fret," Mrs.

Denys whispered. '' You will get stronger,
and when sou come home "

That word stirred the poor widow's heart,
and brought a faint colour to her face : '' Home
I shall never have a Horne any more in this
world  it will be just a place to stop at. It
has been like a bad dream, all this last year.
First the notice to quit, then hoping against
hope, and anger, and hard words. And then
the going! And after that the sickness 
the bitter trouble that routed mv poor wits.
But it's over, and I feel like resting now. I
am come to my right mind again, and desire
to thank God, and say, that I am friends with
everybody."

Mrs. Blythe stood up, and gave her hand
to Mrs. Denys for good-bye. Mrs. Den's
was profoundly moved by this last scene of
a laborious life. " Be kind to her," Alas all
she could articulate, offering money to the

VOL. II. IT

matron as she conducted her back to the
gate.

The Widow Blythe s need of kindness was
but for a Httle while. When Richard came he
was advised to let her remain where she was.
She herself had no wish to move : the last
change of all was drawings near.

I should ha liked to be buried at Cote
where your grandfather's buried and the rest
of us, but don't be at no trouble for me if
the clergyman won't have it  I'm out o' the
parish," she said once. And another time :
I never bore malice, Richard, and don't you.
But for their sake that ha' been the sacrifice,
and for the sake o' other folk that may be as
we were, try to get things set right between
rich and poor about the land ; for there's a
wrong surely, though they want to persuade us
it's no man's fault. I don't hold with Mr.
Charles that what's difficult is to be left to

miracle. I'd have men strive for what's just,
ay, and suffer for it, if need be  else why did
Christ die ? It's poor logic that nothing's
worth fighting for. My love to Jack, and tell
him what I say."

Richard answered that it was the parson's
easy, pleasant fashion : 'not that I wish to
taste his mercy," he added with a shrewd perception
that Mr. Clarges might possibly prove
-hard enough where his own skin was touched
or his own treasures were liable to depredation.

Mrs. Blythe had her heart's desire, and was
buried with her own people. Richard had
sought a shepherd's place elsewhere, and was
giving Cote up. Mr. Clarges expressed a wish
to see him after the funeral, for the purpose of
saying a few salutary words, and the young
man, who had a habit of affection for the little
parson like most of his neighbours, obeyed
his invitation. Presenting himself at the back

door of the rectory, he was conducted to the
study. Mr. Clarges took his toil-hardened
hand, and asked him to sit down ; then sat
down himself, and shaded his eyes.

This ought to be a memorable dav with
you, Blythe," he began in his murmurous
voice. '' You are being early taught what
sorrow is. May it draw you nearer to God."
Richard turned his hat round and round with
its crape weeper, and stared at the old Persian
hearth-rug under his feet. Mr. Clarges droned
pathetically on : " You are going into a distant
part of the country, I hear, and this maybe
my last opportunity  I pray you not to let
this world with its idle amusements, nor yet
with its distractions and cares, cause you to
forget that better world where we hope all to
meet  God in His mercy grant."

Richard lifted up his face, and in a sweet,
sonorous voice replied : " Sir, not to be disrespectful

 I am not thinking yet of any otherworld
but this, and to do my duty in it.
Death and judgment I've need to bear in
mind. Bad thoughts will rise, and it's hard
forcrivinor."

o o

The clergyman winced perceptibly, but
neither spoke nor uncovered his eyes, though
his sense of hearing was quickened.

Richard went on : "I got my bit o' schooling
like other lads, and my way looked plain
before me  day's work, and day's wage, and
the sleep of a labouring man, that's sound
though his victual be none too much  and I
married my Mary. But there, you know the
story, sir. It was not losing the Orchard broke
us ; it was having no Christian place to go into
when we had to quit. Master didn't want to
give me my discharge, and truth to tell, I
didn't ask it. It seemed like tearing us up by
the roots, turnln-j us out o' the Orchard, but to

bid us go clean away from Cote was more than
I could stomach. I'd been upo' the farm from
a little chap  why, I went wi' father and the
horses when I was seven, and could guide the
team and crack my whip like a man, sir. But
Mr. Denys wanted us off the land, that was
what it w-as. We'd offended him, grandmother
and me. We'd come to be in his way. We'd
dared to speak up against his high-handed
doings, and he didn't like it. In the sight o'
such as the squire, poor folks have got no
natural rights at all."

Mr. Clarges returned from the spiritual
world to mundane matters very reluctantly :
"It is the same all the world over, Blythe.
The squire does what he likes with his own.
You have no wronor that many others have not
complained of before you. The small holdings
are being everywhere thrown in with the great
farms, and the labouring people are crowding

Into the big towns where there are potteries,
iron works, and the like. It is what we call
progress."

'' Then progress means more haste than
good speed, sir. There'd better be ten
holdings for one, like the Orchard, than
fewer  more evening of things, sir  more
equality."

Equality  I am sorry to hear that word
from you, Blythe. You are giving way to
unreasonable and mischievous opinions."

No, sir, my opinions is neither mischievous
nor unreasonable  they're the fruit of
what I've suffered," Richard rejoined. '' You
used to call grandmother worldly  she didn't
well know what you meant, but she guessed
as It were not intended for a compliment. Are
you worldly, sir ? I speak as man to man
now  that windy counsel about ordering myself
lowly and reverently to all my betters

has blown by me since we've heard how you
could take the squire's part when hard and
cruel he was, and nobody else in all Cote
daring to make his excuses."

Mr. Chartres assumed a Qrave and stern
aspect. " Blythe," he said, " you are on the
hiorh road to become a demagogue. You had
better mind what you are about."

I know what I am about, sir, and I know
what I say. Mr. Denys did what the law lets
him do, and on his principle he did no wrong-but
you, j/oti disobeyed your orders. You did
not set a wholesome example and pattern to
your flock : you did not set forward quietness,
love, and peace amongst your people.
Nothing of the sort, sir. ' Be still, be patient,'
that Alas all your song to us  what you said
to the squire, that's betwixt him and you  but
you said nothing to any profit."

There was a red stain on the clergyman's

cheek, but he answered with a mild, melancholy
sneer : '' I spoke and acted for the
best, Blythe. wye have all an exalted sense
of other men's duties. You know Mr. Denys
as well as I do, and that he is not easily
moved from the thing he has determined on.
You have decided prudently to leave the
place ; your rancour would continue and
increase in view of what you have lost, and
might become a danger both to yourself and
others."

God knows, sir, I wish the squire no
harm," Richard said with intensity, and got
up to go. The rector shook hands, but his
countenance was not friendly. His feelings
were very much chafed and frayed indeed.
Rebuke was extremely painful to him.

That evening Mrs. Clarges found her husband
tired, and greatly out of spirits ; she
could not succeed in cheering him. *' You

have had hard work lately, Henry, such hard,
distressing work. All this sickness in the
village this winter has been bad for you,
quite too much for you. You need a rest,"
she said. " And the funeral to-day was terribly
trying."

Miss Nancy drooped despondently by. Her
heart had bled for her poor neighbours who
were gone, she had vehemently espoused their
cause, she had put on mourning, and attended
the Widow Blythe's funeral. Now it was
over, like Mrs. Denys, she turned to her own
again and made the best of him. " Yes, dear
Henry, you have been tried, we know," she
said. " Take a holiday, and go abroad. It
will strengthen and refresh you. When you
come home again these sad events will have
passed out of remembrance, and it will be
easier to make a new start."

Dear Henry answered his sister testily. He



did not like her intimation that a new start
was desirable, but he did like her advice, and
he took it. And for the next twelve months
a stranger occupied his pulpit at home.

END OF VOL. II.

Printed HY BALLANTVNE, HANSON AND CO.
EUINUDKLiH AND LONDON

3 0112 060919740

ffcl&,//#

'./

i i( f!k"*'SMBEftii1 aJA 55ra: i*

OF Thou

M I Verity

or Ill Noise

S23
p2.4.2no

V 5

?>

7 5,0/?Z? STREET, BIRMINGHAM. '

Single Subscription-One Guinea per Ann

TIME ALLOWED FOR READING

THREE DAYS FOR EACH VOLUME.

Release Return tens Book or a Charge nill be made /<j
Fetching if.

VOL. III.



OF COTE.

HOLME LEE,

AUTHOR OF " SYLVAN HOLt's DAUGHTER," "STRAIGHTFORWARD," ETC.

Have we not all, amid life's petty strife,
Some pure ideal of a noble life

That once seemed possible  and just within oiir reach
We lost it. . . .

But still our place is kept, and it will wait
Ready for us to fill it, soon or late."

Adelaide Proctor.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON:
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE.

1879.

sall rights reserved !\

CONTENTS.

33oofe tfje g)ijctl?*

UNDER THE NEW ORDER.

CONTENTS.

WITH THE YOUNG GENERATION.

UNDER THE NEW ORDER.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

WHEN THE HEIR WAS A BOY.

"They who provide much wealth for their children, but neglect to
improve them in virtue, do like those who feed their horses high, but
never train them to the manage."  Socrates,

The prosperity of Cote did not ebb for any
long period. When the rector came back
from his twelvemonth's tour abroad, the tide
of fortune had returned, and was flowing-higher
than ever. The graves of Richard
Blythe's household were green in the churchyard,
and there was moss on the headstone
that Mrs. Denys had raised to their memory.

The Orchard had changed hands, and was
VOL. in. A

Spreading itself out into beautiful gardens, and
the old thatched cottage was improved into
the lodge of a fine modern mansion, whose
occupants became neighbourly by and by to
Cousin Elizabeth Paul. The next years were
full and busy, which made them seem the
longer, but one after another they came to an
end, every one leaving some piece of good
work, begun or finished, towards the making
of Cote. All sorts of men had fair times ; for
the building never ceased, unless for the
weather, from the day the foundation-stone
was laid of the new church, and the first sod
turned of the Green Square.

At the Manor House life went on very
much as aforetime, with the regular migrations
to London, to Scotland, to Auldcaster,
Navestock and Acklam, to Paris or Rome ;
the most-felt loss or difference being in the
interrupted intercourse with Mr. and Mrs.

Essex-Brough during the long winters which
they now spent chiefly in some warm resort
of invalids. Mr. Essex Brush had been
compelled by the progress of his malady to
drop his active occupations, and when they
were at the Glen House he was almost always
a prisoner in-doors, which kept his wife a
prisoner too. Their visits were a rarity, and
it could hardly be said that Mrs. Denys regretted
them, but her husband had that constancy
of temper that made him never grow
accustomed to missing the society that was a
habit with him.

The years since the redemption of Nave-stock
had been well spent too. Nature forgives
her injuries and repairs her neglects gratefully
The land laughed now with bountiful harvests,
and flocks and herds multiplied upon the hills.
Under the new order had beofun a relra of
moderate prosperity, and a certain equality of

comfort and well-being prevailed amongst all
conditions of men. There was no farm unlet,
nor any farmstead otherwise than whole and
sound. Gates and fences had everywhere got
themselves mended or renewed. There were
signs of knowledge and enterprise amongst
the new tenants, all young men brought upto
their business, displayed in the endeavour
to naturalise foreign crops for the increase of
food and other material of existence. Minor
industries, the keeping of bees and poultry,
and the cultivation of fruit, were encouraged
amongst the cottagers ; and to the village
school was attached a rood of ground where
boys and girls both were systematically instructed
in the ri-ht method of ofrowino common
flowers, and the cheaper vegetables, good
for food all the year round. The poor gentle
people who found Navestock a pleasant and
inexpensive home, did not care to devote

their gardens to the service of the kitchen,
and there was a market at their own doors
for the thrifty, intelligent folk who could use
it ; or if Navestock failed to consume all it
produced, Beaumlnster was not far off, with
its plentiful ready money for nosegays, fresh
eggs, and green stuff that the shopkeepers
wanted.

The place owed a great deal to its clergyman,
the Rev. Arthur Meade. Sunday and
week-day he was full of life and energy, and
he had a perfect helpmate in his young wife.
Since their marriage, Navestock rectory had
become a sort of half-way house and neutral
territory where the numerous connections of
both their families met  Meadess, Daventrys,
Britons, Herrickss, Denyses  a very great
clan, mustering four generations.

Mr. and Mrs. Denys paid frequent visits to
Navestock, but they did not put up at the

rectory. Mr. Denys preferred to take his
ease at the Inn, which was the old Inn rebuilt
across the road from the church. He had
caused to be provided there sufficient lodging
for himself, his wife, son, servants, and horses,
and sometimes they occupied the place in force
for a week or ten days. On these occasions
there were always at the rectory one or two
friends from Auldcaster or from Knowle.
Delia's people had Insensibly drawn nearer to
her since Wilfred's death, and Hugh Oliver,
who usually came to Navestock with his father
and mother, added by degrees to his acquaintance
first and second cousins of all ages. Mr.
Denys put no hindrance in their way. The
passage of the years was measured by their
growth, and it seemed no long time to Delia
before this boy of hers was tall enough to take
her arm, and hold up his head nearly as high
as her own.

It had been remarked of Huoh Oliver when
he was quite a little fellow that he had a look
of the judge. His mother thought the likeness
strengthened. His father protested that he
was no beauty. Lady Daventry declared that
he proclaimed his paternity in 'every feature
of his face, and Lady Daventry was right.
He was his sire over again, in build, countenance,
and character, said Cousin Elizabeth
Paul, and other traits of resemblance were only
casual gleams that came and went in the very
moment the eye caught them.

Hugh Oliver had been presented annually to
his relations at the House with Golden Gables,
but the prejudice that attached to his father
had so far infected him that Sir John Daventry
and his wife were possessed with the notion
that he was not a brood or lovable child. It
was at Navestock that this opinion came to be
revised. The judge had heard much praise of

Mr. Denys' administration there, but he had
seen none of the results. The great house
that had been pulled down he recollected in
the days of its pomp and splendour, and he
had passed by it, and through the deserted
village, in their period of degradation and ruin.
Now the wilderness blossomed again, and his
curiosity was roused to contemplate this work
of a man whose entrance into life had been a
stumble on the threshold, and a fall that had
disabled him for some of its most honourable
functions.

When Sir John Daventry became better
friends with his great-grandson, the boy had
passed for some time out of the hands of Airs.
Consett into the hands of Mr. Orme, the
young clergyman who served the iron church
which Mr. Denys had provided at Cote until
the new church was finished and consecrated.
It had been determined to give Hugh Oliver

his education at home until he was twelve
years old, and then send him to Rugby.
Mr. Orme belonged to Mr. Denys' people,
and had been one of the fortunate legatees
under old Sir Oliver's will -fortunate, because
the money had paid for his education at
Cambridge, and left him a small competence
over, entitling him to choose his profession.
His father had other sons, and could spare
him ; he said only, when he made up his mind
to be a clergyman, that he trusted he would bea
good one. As he was moved to take holy
orders by the simple, passionate motive of
love for the Leader whose faithful soldier and
servant he desired to be, there was every likelihood
that his father's confidence would be
confirmed. Mr. Orme the elder was a merchant
of the type who increase by labour, a
man of integrity, with good traditions behind
him, and heirlooms of silver-plate, old delft-ware,

and furniture, such as accumulate and
are preserved in old houses where children
of the same name are born, and marry, and
die, generation after Generation. His son
resembled him, and the early bias and Impress
that Hugh Oliver Denys took from his tutor
was good In every way.

It was on a certain Sunday morning In July,
beautiful weather and very warm, while Mr.
and Mrs. Denys were at Navestock on business,
and their boy with them, that Sir John
Daventry and his son drove over from Beau-monster
where the assizes were on, in the
intention of going to prayers at the church,
which neither had seen since It was restored.
The service had begun, and Hugh Oliver, who
faced the congregation and the open door, saw
them come In, and whispered to his mother on
her knees : " Mother, here's grandpa and old
grandpa ; " and then hospitably beckoned

them to come up higher, to the great pew In
the chancel sacred to the ancient squires of
Navestock. Mr. Denys was in his place,
grim as any of their monumental effigies, and
it was Communion Sunday. Delia had Inquired
of her husband beforehand if he would
stay, and he had said that he would, but at
the end of the sermon he took his hat, signed
to his son to follow him, and walked out of
church.

Hueh Oliver was of an aoe to understand
that there was division between his elders,
and to wish the uncomfortable gulf bridged
over. He was a large-hearted lad, strong
and self-reliant, who would let ill winds blow
as they list, and tomorrow would forget them,
and proceed to make good their mischief.
Before he was put under charge of Mr. Orme
he had received all his religious teaching from
his mother  teaching of a plain, wise sort

which made no difficulty of discerning right
from wrong, and referred him to Holy Writ
for the eternal laws of life and conduct. He
had no perplexities about himself yet, but
his father perplexed him often. This abrupt
walking out of church disconcerted him immensely.
He wondered that a grown manlike
his father did not observe more measure
and reserve in his dislikes, and he was hurt for
his mother, whose blush and downward look
betrayed her pain. However, it was done, and
Mr. Denys mentioned that as she would have
company at luncheon they two might take a
long stretch up the fields to the Warren House,
where they had not been this visit  Hugh
Oliver was used to be much made of there.

Cousin Ralph's wife will give us a crust
of bread-and-cheese, and let you plunder her
gooseberry bushes. Loose Bruno, and let us
be off."

Humph Oliver loosed the doe in the stable-yard,
and brought him round. He was glad
enough to go with his father, but he was
sorry to be leaving the others too. He wished
all the world were friends. From his standpoint
it seemed so easy. He knew how his
mother looked up to old grandpa and loved
him, but he felt that his father and he were
kept at a distance. More than once it had
happened at the House with Golden Gables
that his fine spirits had betrayed him into trespassing
on Lady Daventry's rules and customs
at home, and on these occasions there had
been an edge of severity in the judge's rebuke
which exceeded the offence. The very last
time he was there Sir John had told him that
if he could not conform himself to the ways
of the house he had better not come to Auldcaster.
It had dropt quite out of his mind
that morning In church, but as he followed

his father it recurred to his mother, and she
feared that he remembered the admonition
with resentment. It was not so : his goodness
of nature was unimpaired. When the
judge spoke harshly he looked at his fault,
and thought he deserved it ; and took care
not to be to blame a second time for the
same cause. And thus he passed unharmed
by slight injustices which others noted.

The walk up the fields to the Warren
House was glorious for prospect, but fatiguing
in the mid-day glow and glare. Since
Hugh Oliver was there last, there was one
less in the house. The gentle 3'ounger
daughter had gone the way of all flesh, and
her sister, by the face of her, was not far
from the end of her painful journey to the
same bourne. She was alone in the parlour,
lying on a couch by the open window,
wrapped in a soft white gown, to which she

referred with thanks as a gift that Mrs. Denys
had sent her. This was the first word she
spoke : " Tell the lady I wear it every day,
and it will not be worn out when I have
done with it."

** I will tell her," Mr. Denys promised, and
sat down in the shade at a distance, regarding
her with sad concern.

Hugh Oliver took his place close by the
couch  previous years' acquaintance with the
gooseberry bushes had made them friends.
The girl rested her fever-bright eyes on him,
and held one of his brown fists in her burning
e hands.

How do you do, Hugh Oliver Denys,
true son and heir of your father ? You
are come to see me before I die ? " she
asked.

Yes," said the boy, struck with pity and
confusion.

She laughed : '' Hear to him ! He makes
no account of dying  none at all. He thinks
nothing of the deep disgrace of death. But
mind  it is not my shame ; it is my inheritance."


I had a brother once, and he is dead,"
Hugh OHver whispered by way of apology
and consolation.

*' I had a sister once, and she is dead  weare
equal there. Now, / am going into darkness,
but yoii  you will live long, and see
good days. If any one tells you that you
were born under the curse, don't believe it.
JVe where."

Her mother came in. " I do not know
where Ralph is, sir. He is out somewhere
with his gun," she said to Mr. Denys. " He
always carries his gun for company  Sundays
and weekdays alike."

Mr. Denys Inquired with solicitude about

her husband's health, saying that he regretted
to have heard unfavourable reports.

'* They're partly true and partly false, no
doubt," replied the wife. *' He Is more and
more restless of nights and wild in his talk.
All day he Is afoot, yet he sleeps hardly ever :
up and down, crying that the house is afire,
or thieves breaking In, like a man out of his
mind. I am used to It now, but he has
frightened me terribly sometimes."

The open window commanded a long view
of the rough cart-road to the house, and Hugh
Oliver from his place espied a tall figure advancing
towards It with many a tired halt and
gaze across the blinding expanse of sunny
heath.

There Is Cousin Ralph Denys, papa  he

Is coming," he said softly, as If he might be

heard.

Mr. Denys rose and looked out, watching
VOL. in. B

his movements for some minutes, but retiring
to his seat before he appeared.

His wife met him in the entrance, and
warned him of their visitors : " Ralph, my
dear, Mr. Denys is come."

'' I've been seeking him," was his answer,
so quick that she had not time to mention the
boy, and he stood in the doorway. His
countenance was dreadful  black with rage
and spite, malice and cruelty. They saw it,
all of them.

He advanced into the room, and set his gun
in one corner, then thrust his hand on Mr.
Denys with the discordant remark : " They
shake hands with the norman, Cousin Hucrh.
I've seen them do it."

Your mind runs on dismal events, Cousin
Ralph," Mr. Denys said coolly, and stood up
confronting him with stern, controlling air
and attitude, as a bold, strong man stands

when he is menaced by another who Is not,
perhaps, master of himself.

Poor father, sit down by me  come,"
said the sick girl in a tone of persuasion.
' Comer

Hugh OHver had retreated to the window,
and left his chair empty. Ralph Denys cast
himself into it, and then stared about, heaving
great sighs. *' Do you miss nothing, Cousin
Hugh ? " he said in a quieter manner, looking
at him.

 Yes, I miss poor, pretty Angel."

We buried her when the corn was sowing,
and here's DIavola spreading her wings to
fly before It's cut. Then we shall be alone,
my wife and I, and there'll be the blessing
on Sunday after sermon  ' And this I pronounce
for doom  the sins of the fathers upon
the children until they be all dead, dead, dead.'
Is that boy yours. Cousin Hugh } "

"Why, you know he is. You have seen
him many times."

'' Indeed ? I remember none. It was the
day before yesterday that never comes, perhaps.
And by God's grace, you hope to
rear him ? "

By God's grace, I hope to see him grow
to man's estate, and to leave him my shoes."

That's good. I'll say a prayer for him.
The world's turned upside down since we
were young, and not mended. I rode on

horseback then Why do you pluck at my

sleeve, Diavola ? "

You are half asleep, father  wake up.
You talk so strangely."

'' Never let them persuade yon I am mad.
I know what I do as well as any man breathing.
It was hot in the sun round New Place,
and Cousin Hugh had taken sanctuary in
church. / shall meet him another day. The

lane's lone that has never a turning. If
dinner's ready, let us go to dinner."

Mr. Denys exchanged a glance of dismal
intelligence with his Cousin Ralph's wife as
they went to the room where the meal was
spread. It was a poor meal, and interrupted
by more brief disjointed sentences which might
have conveyed to Mr. Denys grave warning
of some danger to himself behoof schemed in
his Cousin Ralph's disordered wits. But he
manifested no sort of apprehension. Only on
their road back to the Inn he took his son
into his confidence on another matter.

'rit would make your mother uneasy to
no purpose if she were told the chief part of
what passed at the Warren House to-day.
We must keep it to ourselves, Hughie," he
said. 

*' Yes, papa," the boy answered, and looked
up in his father's face with pale resolution.

He knew very well what they were to
keep.

There was silence between them for a few
minutes, and then Mr. Denys continued :
*' You will soon be eoinof to school, Hughie
we have always been friends ? We have
never fallen out ? "

'' Never, papa," and he slipped his hand
affectionately within his father's arm.

I overheard poor Diavola speaking to you
of behoof born under the curse  a curse of diseased
blood hers, poor child. But there is
an old story for you to know concerning this
estate of Navestock  if you have not learnt
it by some side-wind ? "

Hugh Oliver had learnt it in various versions,
out of which he had constructed a theory
which left his father not much to communicate.
The boy blushed in making the acknowledgment.
His Uncle Cricket had given him his

first information, and then he had inquired of
Mr. Orme. Old  Crump had let In a little
light, and the patriarchal Todd had let in
more. Mr. Denys made no comment on his
son's reserve, but only invited him to say
what was the moral that he deduced from
the ancient tradition, and Its modern sequel
added by himself.

The boy feared that his father was displeased.
" You are not angry with me, papa ?
I was Interested and listened. Everybody
knows at home. Phoebe knows," he said with
eager self-exculpation.

I am not angry with you, Hughie. Our
servants are witnesses against us, and our
children sit In judgment on us," Mr. Denys
replied. '' You know the old story  that is
enough. And you know what your mother
and I have done and foregone to lift the load
of Navestock from your shoulders. We trust

you may outlive us. You can undo our work
when the time comes, if so be that you are
minded to undo it."

*' Papa dear, I shall never be minded to
undo it  I shall never undo it," Hugh Oliver
said urgently. " Mother has talked to me."

If your mother has talked to you, I take
your word. And now I want sou to apprehend
clearly my motives in doing it, that you
may not fall into the mistake of some of our
neighbours. You are not to ascribe it to any
superstitious dread of Divine visitation, nor to
any sentimental view of retrospective justice.
You are to ascribe it only to this  that moreland
fell to me by inheritance than I was
able to do my duty by. And land is like
nothing else : it pays a hundredfold for love
and labour, but when men hold more than
they can use and care for, it goes barren.
Navestock had crone barren over half its

acreage when our old kinsman came forward
for its redemption. Now it is cultivated like
a garden, and scores of thrifty people divide
its profit where once all was not enough to
feed the wants of a single prodigal."

I will try to follow in your steps, papa,
and be a iSfood man. "

Good, my son ? There is no man that
liveth and sinner not."

When Mr. Denys and Hugh Oliver reached
the inn on their return from the Warren
House, the judge and his son were still there.
Mr. Denys met them with a civility quite
unlike his customary coldness, and seemed
even gratified to find them waiting his arrival,
which Mr. Daventry was determined to do.
He saw little enough of his son-in-law, but he
never avoided him. To Delia the difference
in her husband's manner was strange, and

SO marked that she asked him what had
happened.

'' Nothing has happened," he said. '' We
have been up to the Warren House, Hughie
and I. Diavola sends you thanks again for
your white gown. Cousin Ralph is as bad as
they say. It would be desirable if his wife
could prevail on him to go to the sea for a
long change. I conjecture that he has pretty
well emptied her purse, Delia ; and you had
better give her money into her own hand,
and suororest it."

It was no secret that Ralph Denys, or
Wayland, was a pensioner of Mr. Denys of
Cote.

When he had answered Delia, Mr. Denys
turned to the judge, and without preface inquired
what he thought of the restored church.
Sir John Daventry said that he thought it
very well done.

'' Have you been over to New Place ? "
was the next question.

Delia and her father had been, but not
the judge  he feared the heat of the day.
Mr. Daventry gave his opinion of New Place,
that it was delightful, and the site finer
than that of the old house which had been
removed.

*' It is certainly healthier," Mr. Denys
said. *' There has been neither death nor
sickness there yet, and it has been ten years
inhabited."

Do you mean never to make it your own
residence ? " Sir John Daventry asked.

*' I have another purpose for it," Mr. Denys
answered. " Speaking of that brings me to
something else that I want to say. Hughie
has given me his word to let all we have
done here stand. That is good news for his"
mother. Hughie will keep his word."

'' Does he know what he promises ? " said
the judge, regarding the lad.

Hugh Oliver was lounging in the deep
window-seat a little jaded with his long walk,
but at a bidding glance from his mother he

o o

stood up and answered for himself. " I
believe that I know," he said. " Cote is to
be enou<?-h for me, and Navestock New Place
and the land traced in red on the survey are
to belong to Guy Francis Meade. It is he
the hero  who is to restore the ancient
family. All the Navestock farms are secured
to the tenants in possession by long leases,
and any of them can be made freehold. The
small plots that gentlemen have built on the
same. The cottagers' leases will 20, some to
the squire at New Place, and some to the
rector, to improve the benefice, and provide
a curate and lay-reader in the parish. And the
advowson is to be given up to the bishop."

** Why SO ? " asked the judge, who was
rather in favour of limiting public authorities
than of enlaroino them.

'' Because Guy Francis Meade, the squire
that is to be, belongs to the Roman Catholic
communion," Mr. Denys replied coolly.

And Denys of Cote will be for ever quit
of Navestock," remarked Mr. Daventry. 'but
how comes it that Captain Meade is a
Papist ? "

His mother belongs to the Roman
Catholic Church," Mr. Denys said, and offered
no further explanation.

Sir John Daventry was reflecting on what
he had heard, and considering Hugh Oliver's
countenance with quiet approval. He was
disposed to believe that Mr. Denys had done
wisely in preparing his son's release from the
burden of a second great estate in land, and
HuQh Oliver's recital of his lesson raised no

demurs. The distribution seemed the best
possible, made with foresight and a sentiment
of natural justice that the judge had not suspected
as existing in Mr. Denys' mind. It
was an infused sentiment probably ; Delia had
it, and in these years her husband and she
lived In close counsel together.

When Sir John Daventry was about to
order his carriage to return to Beauminster,
he asked If Hugh Oliver could go there with
him for a few days. Mr. Denys referred the
question to his wife. Delia was glad of the
opportunity. Her boy was being gradually
equipped for independence and school, and
it was good that he should walk about In other
company, and feel his feet, before his leading-strings
were quite severed. Hugh Oliver also
was pleased to go, but the prosaic circumstance
of being badly in need of his dinner
deferred their departure until after that meal

I

had been eaten  and eaten by all of them atone
table. Which was the end of a rash vow
Mr. Denys had made, never to break bread
with any of his wife's house. And virtually
it was the end of the alienation that had been
the abiding eries of her life.

2 )

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

DAMOCLES' SWORD.
In the midst of life we are in death."

When the redemption of Navestock was first
begun, Sir John Herrick had made the remark
that Mr. Denys was putting his house in order
as if he were eoinp- to die. He mioht have
repeated the remark had he been witness to
his proceedings during the few days that
Hugh OHver was away at Beauminster with
his grandfather and the judore. Mr. Ouorn
came down from London, sent for express, and
Delia supposed that the affairs to be arranged
were of moment and of present consequence
from her husband's close application to them,

and his willingness to dispense with her
society, on which he was accustomed to make
arose claims.

At his instance she drove over to Auldcaster
early one morning to spend a long day
with her mother, and also at his instance she
brought back her brother Cricket to occupy
Hucrhie's room in his absence.

Cricket was a young man now, and had
so far got the better of his infirmities that
he could move about with a crutch. His
character had developed on the lines that were
its marked traits when he was a boy. fie
Still loved his sister next to his mother, and
said biting things to her with the same certainty
that she would bear them quietly, and
be good to him none the less.

Delia drove him about the country in an
easy, low pony-carriage, and showed him the
view from the Three Beeches, and the site of

VOL. Il c

old Navestock one afternoon ; and the next
she drove him to New Place, and let him hop
up and down, and in and out, and all roundabout
until he was tired. He had been very
curious to see New Place.

Cote must be a delightful house if it
beats this," he said when his inspection was
finished.

*' I don't care for New Place at all," Delia
responded.

Cricket eyed her with malicious scrutiny :
' You have been well tamed, Sister Dil," he
muttered.

She turned to him with a wistful deprecation,
and just said : " Yes, Cricket, Love
and Death are wonderful tamers. Pride and
ambition cannot stand moralist them." Cricket
was silent, and perhaps ashamed. Presently
Delia went on : " You think my life has
disappointed me, dear, but that is not so.

If it has not given me what I expected, it
has given me things much better worth having.
I can speak to you here  I never could speak
to you at home. I should like you to see
Cote, and then you would understand. Nave-stock
was redeemed by Sir Oliver Denys not
for us, but to be given back to the Meadess.
But Cote is ours, and we have watched it
grow and thrive almost as we have watched
our boy. We are not so rich in money as
some imagine, for we spend as we get, but
we are far richer in peace and happiness.
I would not change my lot for any woman's
I know. And if you talk of ambition, is it
not a fair ambition to build a town ? Cote
covers more round than Auldcaster now. It
is full of groves and gardens, and the last three
or four years some most beautiful houses have
been built on the slopes of the down. The
Green Square is nearly completed, and deserves

a journey only to see it. When the
new church is consecrated, you must come to
the Manor House, and I think you will say
that if my marriage vexed you in the beginning,
it has been so blessed in its continuance
that I do well to thank God for it. I do thank
God for it every day I live ! "

'' How about Damocles' sword, Delia ? "
Cricket asked with cruel emphasis  and repented
the moment the words were out.

You mean the curse that I did not believe
in once ? It is nearly five years since my little
Willie died  I have not thought much of the
curse since. But I hope in God, Cricket, and
fear nothings for the son I have left." Delia
walked gently on to close the conversation,
looking upwards with sweet, clear eyes, hopeful
and trustful too.

Cricket perceived that his sister had suffered
a change beyond her taming, and that he must

I

learn her anew. He had some opportunities.
He saw her under various aspects  gracious
and good when he went with her to fulfil the
commission that Mr. Denys had given her to
his Cousin Ralph's wife ; glad and good when
he went with her to bring Marie Irene away
from her convent for the summer holiday ;
lovlnof and tender and crowd when Hughie
came back from Beauminster, feeling himself
so much taller by as many days as he had been
gone from her control, and showing it by
strange acts of independence.

Hughie is a dear boy, Uncle Cricket  say
you think so," his mother whispered, wanting a
comfortable word of kindness from him.

Oh, yes, he Is a dear boy. I know him.
He will have his own way," his Uncle Cricket
answered.

'' Like his own father," Delia said, and was
perfectly satisfied.

There was something very touching, even to
her sarcastic, crippled little brother, In Delia's
reasonable affection for her boy  not over-careful,
nor over-anxious, but never weary, and
never falllncf. If Hucfhle seemed rather to encroach
and be exacting with his mother, that
was, as she pleaded, because he had no playfellow
at home besides her. His father was
certainly no playfellow at this moment, but
Hurtle waited on him, and watched for him,
with a devotion not common amongst boys of
his age. Cricket thought it quite remarkable,
and noticed that Mr. Denys was both sensible
of It, and glad of It. The father and son were,
as they had said, good friends. In affairs the
boy could be of no use, but every hour that his
father was at liberty he called Hughie to him,
to ride, to walk, to come and talk, and rest.
It is their manner," Delia said. And it
seemed Impossible that confidence could go

further unless they had stood as equals and
friends on one level.

When they returned to Cote, the squire was
observed to be more than usually busy in the
place. He was often In consultation with Old
Crump, and took many circuitous walks, of
which the object was first reported to Mrs.
Denys for her opinion, and then submitted to
Mr. Quorn and Mr. Clarges, and to others who
mloht be more or less concerned. Delia had
been anticipating an interval of repose from
business about this period, and she asked her
husband if there was not time enough yet for
some of these arrangements, and if such and
such decisions could not wait. Mr. Denys
never pressed her on any matter at the
moment when she objected, but left It till a
convenient season when she would, perhaps,
recur to it herself. It dawned upon her presently,

that there were things he wanted to
have finished, or finally determined on, to door
not to do them.

One day he told her that he had done all
that he had promised for the new church  he
had given the land, the stone squared, and the
timber  and the subscriptions made in and out
of the parish must provide all else. That the
new church would have many splendid gifts
was sure ; for it was a beautiful building that
devout souls might have a joy in adorning.

It was on this occasion that he said further :
Not to hamper Cote with a heavy debt in the
beginning, I have had marked out a site for the
schools which the Education Bill will soon compel
us to provide. The old buildings are overcrowded
now. It is my intention to give the
stone and the timber  the same as the church.
And we must have a Board. Clarges prefers
the voluntary system, and the chief authority in

his own hands ; but we must look forward.
We must have a Board, and a rate which will
touch everybody. It is no easy matter to collect
the subscriptions now  half the people
have an excuse, oood to themselves, for not

giving.

Mrs. Denys, like the rector, would have preferred
the action of private munificence, but
private munificence, he told her, signified reserved
private rights, inimical often to the
public good, and he declined to let any be
created for the future embarrassment of the
community. Mr. Orme was with Mr. Denys.
He was not afraid of the electors, and did not
doubt that the School Board of Cote would
comprise amongst its first members the gentlemen
who formed the existing committee, in
which confidence he was subsequently justified
by the event.

A third thing there was that Mr. Denys

begged his wife specially to note. " I have
pledged to Orme that triangular bit of land in
the lower village where Crispin's shop stands,"
he said. '* It is one of the last of the old
leases, and Orme wants it for a workman's
club. There have been applicants for It, willing
to give a very heavy ground-rent, because
of its three frontage ; but it lies in the midst
of the workmen's houses, and a public building
there will be a more attractive feature at
coming into the town from Marshleas thana
tavern, or a group of shops that are not
needed."

Mrs. Denys was not likely to forget this
behest. It was almost too much her inclination
to exercise a maternal despotism over the
labouring folk In Cote  to be very good to
them according to her own notions of Goodness,
but to govern them a little too much, as
if, because they were busy with their hands

all day, their heads had not time to grow to
years of discretion.

And will you give the stone and the timber
for this building also, Hugh ? " she asked.

Mr. Denys paused on the question, and
finally replied that If he lived he would. He
wished her to bear in mind that it was not a
charitable institution he proposed, but a club
managed by the most capable amongst the
men themselves  such as had a stake In Cote,
had houses of their own, and were settled to
spend their lives there. And he mentioned
several by name who, he said, possessed every
qualification necessary for the purpose.

With these deferred arrangements it was
Mr. Denys' pleasure that Hugh Oliver should
be made acquainted. The idea was promulgated
suddenly. 'rit is time you saw a little
of what business is, Hughie," he said one
morning at breakfast. " When you go to

school I shall lose you for the best part of
the year ; and after Christmas you must go."

Hughie looked serious, but not unwilling.
The process of seeing what business was
turned out occasionally tiresome, but he gave
diligent attention to what was shown him.

You will remember this," was the frequent
form of his father's appeal, and the lad's
response was always : " Yes, papa, I shall
remember."

During the five years that had elapsed since
the first sod was turned of the Green Square
the progress of Cote had sustained no check.
The square itself was a nearly-finished place,
of which every house and shop and stall had
its qualified occupant. The new church baulked
against the sky, walls and roof and tower up,
invested with intricate scaffolding yet, but
advancing towards completion. The worth
of large ideas was proving itself. Cambourne

had gone faster than Cote, but It had not gone
so well. Mr. Midas had made more money
than Mr. Denys, but he had not invested it so
securely. Whatever had been done in Cote
remained a satisfaction to the eye ; and though
Cambourne had the pull over it for natural
beauty, Cote, by careful self-adornment, had
earned the better measure of success. The
ancient rivalry was extinct in the bosoms of
Cote. They had run a race for the leadership
in popularity, and Cote had won by a long
stride.

That Mr. Denys should rest and be thankful,
was the common sentiment of his neighbours
just when he seemed less inclined to rest
than he had ever been since he beoan first to
work at the development of his property.

*' There will be time enough for resting by
and by," he said to Delia when she hinted a remonstrance.
He appeared to her to be taking

'4

some premature steps, aspiring, perhaps, to
govern his share in the world when it should
be no longer his, and acquiring certainly a new
reticent habit. It was by a mere chance that
she learned he had given to Mr. Ouorn instructions
for a will  having made a will, of which
the provisions were known to her, some years
ago.

If you did not look so well, I should think
you had a presentiment of evil," she said on
this discovery. " Tell me, Hugh, if there is
any trouble coming that you foresee."

Mr. Denys shook his head with a decided
negative, and professed himself surprised by
her adjuration. " There is nothing," he said,
'' nothing  unless it be the shadow at the Glen

o

House. That is a cloud, and a heavy cloud.
Essex Brooch has asked me to see to the disposal
of his horses before we go to Scotland.
He will never ride to the meet any more, but

there may be a long lingering before him. I
would rather encounter sudden death."

This explanation seemed adequate to Delia.
'' You must olive Hughie a strong little horse,
and let him ride with you once a week when
the hunting begins," she said.

So I will. He can spare a day from his
lessons, and it will help to make a man of
him."

'rand ask John to come down."

John has his own affairs, and his family.
It is not so easy for him to leave London. I
have thought lately, Delia, that I should like
to make over Acklam to John  we rarely stay
there ourselves."

Indeed, dear, I have not a word to say
against that. John is your eldest son."

Mrs. Denys never had a word to say
against anything that her husband wished todo
for John, or George, or Marie-Irene. It

was her sole desire concerning: them that they
should be brothers and sister to her boy 
a position that was becoming more difficult
than when they were younger, as it was
sure to do, with the best vill in the world
to be quiet and content in it. The result was
that George, since he went last to Italy, had
never come home at all, and that John came
rarely. It was the natural evolution of the circumstances,
and had to be endured in silence.

Hugh Oliver knew his place as his father's
heir, and took it as his right. Whether he
liked his introduction to business or not, in
Scotland that August he was proud to carry
his gun ; and in October, when the hunting in
the peninsula began, he rode in the field with
the pluck of a lad to the manner born, and
emulous of a great example. Mr. Orme gave
in to his enthusiasm after a since movement
of reluctance and apprehension. Hunting

days stole many hours from the working
week, and Hugh OHver, though he had a
fine capacity, and did not sleep over his books,
was not a first-class scholar of his ae. He
had had altogether a great deal of play, but
his father pronounced that he would do better
at Rugby for possessing physical prowess and
moderate lore ; and the tutor, who had not
Rugby experience to speak from, did not
gainsay the squire's judgment further.

Though Mr. Denys had denied to his wife

that there was any occult reason for his late

access of activity, and was even able partially

to dissemble with himself, in an interview that

he had with Mr. Ouorn soon after the truth

came to the surface, and, translated into plain

speech, was sufficiently starting. He confessed

tl"t he never went to Navestock now but he

went, as he believed, in peril of his life.
VOL. in. D

My poor cousin, Ralph Denys, is as mad
as any lunatic in Bedlam," he said. " He has
threatened me once or twice, and will have
me some day, I know, for he's a dead shot.
But I shrink from proposing to put him under
restraint. And his wife would not consent toit
either."

Mr. Ouorn argued strongly for prompt precautionary
measures.

None would avail but shutting him up,
which is sooner said than done," Mr. Denys
replied. '' Once let him suspect any design
on his liberty, and he would be only the more
of a danger to me. I have ordered his gun to
be taken away, but I am not obeyed."

When Mr. Denys had said thus much, perhaps
he regretted that he had said anything.
Mr. Ouorn knew his Cousin Ralph by his bad
reputation, but not personally, and could have
no judgment of his own on his condition, and

Mr. Denys did not care to be regarded as
going in fear. The lawyer, however, took what
he had heard for indirect orders to inform
himself further, and did so with the result
of arriving at the same conclusion at his
employer. The man was mad, no doubt, but
with so much method in his madness as to
be quiet under the investigation of strangers,
and with his wife to protect him against the
separation she dreaded, he was more than a
match for his cousin, who would thankfully
have been delivered from the terror of him.

When Mr. Denys found that the hazard was
not to be removed, he requested Mr. Ouorn to
say no word of what had been attempted toward
it off; and for any sign that he betrayed
afterwards he might have been quit of the
recollection of having ever admitted such
hazard at all. Naturally he was a man of high
courage, on whom impressions of the sort were

not liable to linger with any detecting effect,
and their sharp recurrence at intervals only
quickened his sympathies for those belonging
to him, and set him more eagerly to finish his
work that he did not want to leave undone,
and a burden to them, if he were suddenly
taken away.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

A PROJECT OF MARRIAGE.

Homme propose  Dieu dispose."

When Hugh Oliver went to Rugby after
Christmas, Mr. and Mrs. Denys re-visited
Rome, where George, the artist, seemed in-dined
permanently to set up his easel. This
time Marie Irene was of their company  a
most lovely girl.

For a year or two past Marie-Irene had
left her convent during longer intervals, which
were spent chiefly in London, at her fathers
house, and under Mrs. Denys charge, for
the sake of lessons in music, which was her
passion. She had great gifts, and it was

desired that she should be highly cultivated.
Before Easter they were joined in Rome by
Captain Meade. It was an arrangement, of
course. He had come from India by way of
Trieste, and proceeded to Rome for the express
purpose of meeting Marie Irene, who
was understood to be in a perfectly blank and
unconscious state with regard to these ulterior
views of her father in which she was interested.
It is likely that she was so, and so
remained for a considerable while, being a
sweet, modest, light-hearted young lady, not
tuned to sentimental airs, but enjoying the
sunshine and bright present day with singing
and dancing, and all simple pleasures that goto
make young life mirthful and happy.

Captain Meade was satisfied with her beauty
and her good-humour, with her goodness too,
which was of a genuine sort. But he did not
fall into sudden captivity. Marie Irene seemed

too much of a child yet, and too Httle of a
woman. He felt as old as the world beside
her. Since he was in E no-land last he had

o

been in love  in earnest, passionately  and
mammon, with some magical letters to its
name, had worsted him. He had done valiantly,
and more successfully in war ; for he
had won the Victoria Cross. He had been
wounded twice, and one of his wounds marred
(if a girl chose to think so) the splendour of
his countenance. Marie-Irene did not think
so ; for she had a natural turn towards hero-worship,
but she agreed with him in feeling
that he was a person of great age and experience,
whose opinion might be taken on questions
of casuistry, but who was not to be
pelted with confetti, or otherwise event with
George's comrades of the studio whom he was
permitted to introduce to his sister.

Marie-Irene had made the acquaintance of

one of these more than willingly. Tom Rose
lived' and worked under the same roof as
George Denys, and had watched over him
in an attack of fever the previous summer.
He was as poor as a church mouse, but full
of genius, and thrifty. When he was under
the divine afflatus he went into retreat and
barred his door, and a sweet, interrupted
whistle was all the sound of him that his
neighbours heard until his task was accomplished
or his inspiration spent, when he
would emerge, and go out to hear the sea-winds
in the pines at Castel Fusano, or to
enjoy a frolic at Frascati, being, when he
recovered his speech and his spirits, of all
comrades at play the merriest and the best.
Marie-Irene called him " Tom Rose," with
occasional notes of admiration appended ; and
Captain Meade, on rather inadequate evidence,
assumed that she had a tender parti all

for the artist-student which became her better
than gentle deference to himself. In fact,
Captain Meade was in a low key, in no
humour for courting His heart was sore
from his recent disaster, and he would have
taken more enthusiastically to the young lady
had he not been expected to marry her. He
made Mrs. Denys his confessor, and mentioned
an imaginary necessity he was under
of appearing at the first levee after Easter,
and the real impatience of his mother to see
him at Updeane. Mr. Denys tacitly acquiesced
in his departure, and said only that he
must call on Mr. Ouorn before he left London.

'' Are you going home ? I thought we were
to travel to the Lakes and through Switzerland
together," Marie Irene said without any
shyness or after-thought at all when his departure
was announced.

I may return," Captain Meade said quickly.

My mother at Updeane is waiting to seeme."


'rate revoir, then," rejoined the young lady ;
and It was not observed that her natural flow
of spirits was abated by his absence, though,
indeed, he had been very useful as an escort
while he was there.

When Captain Meade had paid his homage
to the Queen he went down into the country,
to Updeane. Updeane was an old house, a
garden, an orchard, two or three fields, and a
little farm-steading, remote from any considerable
town, and not touched at by either main
road or line of railway. It was here the
Meadess had kept their footing in the county
since the time when Navestock was taken
from them. Out of this old stone house,
quarried In the hill where it stood, and set on
an eminence with its face to the sun, had gone
forth those men of distinction whom Mr.

Denys spoke of to Sir Oliver ; and hither, if
they missed the rewards of honour, had they
come back to rest and lay their bones. How
many of them had died at home the church
register attested.

Money had never run in that family, but
the want of it had not been severely felt until
the present generation, when the eldest son
wandered off to Australia, and was glad to
turn farmer when he wandered back ; and Guy
Francis, the youngest, yielding to stern necessity,
had consented to think of a desk in a
merchant's office, but, scared by one glimpse
of the dreary inaction of that life, had preferred
to take the Queen's shilling, and climb the
steep path of glory from the ranks. He had
done it in a long stride or two, and old soldiers
talked of him as only a boy yet. When he
presented himself at Updeane, the wearer of
the bronze Cross of Valour, his mother kissed

him, and wept over him, crying : " Rather
that, my dear son, than ten thousand times
its weight in old ! "

Mrs. Meade was a gentle lady, good, not
austere, true to noble traditions. Guy Francis
was her favourite son. He seemed more
especially to belong to her because he had
been brought up in her religion. She was a
daughter of an ancient Catholic family, very
poor, and had married his father with the
customary proviso that the boys born of their
marriage should be trained as Protestants, and
the crirh craven over to her. But she never
had a girl, and when Guy Francis began to
learn she had the first teacher of him. The
results where not hard to foresee. When he
was of an asse to choose, he was received into
the Romish Church, and though he was not a
rigid pietist, he continued faithful to his creed
and obedient to her rules. It was this that

had guided Mr. Denys in his selection of the
youngest son rather than the eldest, to carry
out Sir Oliver's scheme for the restoration of
Navestock, and on this he grounded his hopes
of a happy marriage for Marie-Irene.

Mrs. Meade lived alone at Updeane, and
kept the place in order, supervised by her
eldest son, always patiently looking forward to
the perfect days when Guy Francis would
return from India on a lonQ furlough. She
had not anticipated his return with a name
that would be echoed beyond their own
county, but she quickly heard that it was a
famous name, welcome In orreat houses of great
people up In London. Captain Meade had
duties and friends many elsewhere, and went
and came on frequent short visits, but he sat
down for the most part contentedly by his
mother, relating to her his adventures and
misadventures with the cfusto of a hero and

a traveller who feels that his tales never tire
the ears they are poured Into. He recalled
to her in many a story the boy who got a
perilous joy out of an old punt on the river,
and hunting out of the rough, half-broken colts
that went to market as soon as they were fit
to be sold. They were wonderfully happy
together. With his mother he was full, even
florid, in his details, just because she loved
them, and none could be too much.

Of course, it happened one day in the
plenitude of confidence that he told her of
his abortive passion  how it began, and how
it had ended : " Be very sure, my dear, that
she was unworthy of you," was the lady's unhesitating
verdict.

Perhaps Captain Meade was tending towards
a similar conclusion. At all events, he ceased
to feel like a man who has lost a treasure, and
was able to take an interest in life that had

been absent from it In Rome. He paid a
visit to his brothers at Navestock, and from
that date he appeared to forget a great deal,
and to look forward more. Mrs. Meade had
heard nothing yet of New Place and Marie-irene,
but her son judged that now was come
the time to speak, and he spoke so as to
necessitate few questions to make the case
clearer. His mother listened in silence. It
was not easy to set it in an entirely flattering
light, and her feeling was distinctly one of
regret that her son should stand in such a
position. She hoped that the young lady
knew nothing of it.

I am not aware that she knows anything
of it. I should certainly believe that she does
not," Captain Meade replied.

A description of her was asked for. The
description was as complete as the brevi
story. iy-

'' She has been admirably brought up ; she
is beautiful and brood, and has a sincere devotion.
I am told that she is the very copy of
her mother, pretty foreign graces and all. At
Rome she seemed to care more for the joyous
artist tribe her brother George lives with
than for staider company ; but Arthur and
his wife tell me that she takes the colour of
her surroundings, and at Cote is a very charming
specimen of the English country girl."

They approve her then, Arthur and his
wife ? Your heart begins to incline towards
her also, I think ? I will not attempt to advise
you, dear. The decision does not rest solely
with you. One circumstance is painful to me
you know what I mean. If you loved one

another " Mrs. Meade was on the point

of saying, '' that might be a solvent," but she
stopped short. In her secret mind she would
have preferred that this son of hers, of whom

she was most proudly tender, should have no
fortune but Updeane, and no wife but his
sword, rather than he should be rich and
blessed in the fortune and the wife that the
hereditary enemy of their house proposed to
give him.

Mrs. Meade called Mr. Denys on this occasion
the hereditary enemy of their house. Her
son reminded her that old enmities had been
cancelled by his brothers' acceptance of Mr.
Denys' benefits, and that in the present generation
the two houses had exchanged none but
friendly acts. She made him no reply ; she
said no word more, neither then nor ever had
they any argument ; but her prejudice was evident
and not unreasonable, and her influence
was felt. She avoided any further manifestation
of curiosity to hear more whether of New
Place or of the young lady, and when her son
spoke of either afterwards, she just responded,

VOL. III. E

and passed on to another topic. Captain
Meade could not complain. His brothers were
advocates for Mr. Denys' projects, but his own
views and sentiments varied from day to day,
and nothing would fix them but the rise of a
mutual attachment, which seemed doubtful yet.
If his mother had spoken out, she would have
said, that when he could tell her that the girl
had won his affections she would open her
heart to her, but until then she would live in
hope that some way of release might be found
for them both from a situation the pains and
penalties of which neither he nor Mr. Denys
seemed to have taken into account.

CHAPTER XL.

HUSBANDS AND WIVES.

Some wives by patience have reduced
111 husbands to live viell."

W, Warner.

Marie Irene was not disappointed of her tour
to the Italian lakes and through Switzerland
though Captain Meade had gone to England,
and did not return, as he had intimated that
possibly he might. To please her the time
was even extended through May and half of
June, which shortened the season in London
to a single month. That was iona enough for
Mr. Denys now, and twice in the course of it
he was up and down at Navestock, on business
of which he did not say much to Delia. His

mind seemed pre-occupied with grave, not to
say anxious, thoughts, and his interviews with
Mr. Quorn were frequent. There was trouble
at the Warren House because of his poor
cousin, Ralph Denys, which ended in his consignment
to a keeper ; but he was not put
under any stronger guard than could be kept
over him at home, living under the same roof
as his wife.

Captain Meade was still staying down in the
country, and Mrs. Denys made some inquiry
about his proceedings after her husbands
second visit to Navestock.

*' Meade is all right," Mr. Denys said. " He
Is recovering health and tone together. And
New Place is re-let for a year."

Marie-Irene was not to return to her convent
any more as a school-girl after the journey
at Rome, but to take the place of a daughter
that was even her in her father s house. It is

not to be imagined that this passed quite free
of criticism. Mrs. Moth had something to say
of the unlikeHhood that any gentleman would
marry her  a girl born out of wedlock, and a
Papist besides. But Mrs. Moth, though a
representative woman, was not all the world,
nor the best part of it. Marie-Irene passed
with the majority as do other girls possessed of
beauty, grace, talent, and a fair dower besides.
Her religion was the real difference, for that
was her life.

When Captain Meade met the young lady
for the third time, she was assisting at a reception
in the Dutch garden again. Her white
sala o-Qwn and blue ribbons were still much in
the fashion of the little earl he remembered
laughing at his stories in the same place half-a-dozen
years ago, and she looked so sweetly
serious that the impulse seized him to tell hera
story, just to see her laugh now. Marie-irene

was perfectly obliging. The consequence
was that he caught her blithe humour,
and learned, like other men in trouble before
him, that life goes forward, and the sun, hidden
awhile behind the clouds, may break out at
any hour of the day, all the lovelier in its clear
shining if there have been rain.

It was Marie-Irene's birthday that day, and
those who were privileged to know it had
brought her gifts for love-tokens. Mr. Clarges
had brought her an exquisite spray of his
favourite Devoniensis rose  a white rose just
unfolding, with buds and glossy leaves  and
in presenting it he had made her one of his
pretty, old-fashioned compliments that he was
famous for. Marie-Irene was pleased and
touched ; for she was fond of the old clergyman
from a child, and he had been always
good to her.

Come and talk to Hueh Oliver's mother.

Hughie has won the prize for swift running,"
she said, and offered her hand to conduct
him to Mrs. Denys. Mrs. Denys received him
with kind civility, and thanked him for his congratulations,
but they got no further. Hughie's
mother preferred to talk of her boy with Mr.
Orme.

'' Clarges, I am glad to see you here," Mr.
Denys cried, arriving to his old friend's deliverance,
and they walked up and down under
the yew hedge arm in arm for a long while.

It was generally remarked how well and
hearty Mr. Denys looked that afternoon 
how sturdy and upright  with no care in his
face, and with a ready word for every one.
Cousin Elizabeth Paul, who had come bringing
Marie-Irene a handful of pearls that she
would never wear any more, was greatly
struck. " Life goes better with him," she said
to herself. '' He is more and more like what

he was meant to be." Fat Colonel Hayman
and Sir John Herrick were as cordial with their
neighbour now as if he had never offended,
and they had never stoned him.

' If Denys would stand for the county, he
would have as fair a chance of beings returned
as any man I know," Colonel Hayman roared
with boisterous laughter, as if the thing were
a good joke, but true for all that.

Delia heard him, and a delicate faint colour
tinged her cheek. '' They are speaking of my
dear husband," she said to a lady, almost a
stranger, who was pacing the lawn at her side.

You have a right to be proud of him,"
the lady answered. " I knew Navestock well
when I was a girl, and I have often heard
since what Mr. Denys was doing there. The
Meadess are of our connection. Mr. Denys
has had great opportunities, and has known
how to use them."

"He has, indeed, and I like to hear it
acknowledged. And Cote  do you enjoy
Cote ? " Mrs. Denys asked.

Yes. I think I was never in a prettier little
town, and I have been half the world over
since I was married. We have our doctrines
in the Green Square, above the hosier's
shop where the golden ivy is trained up the
door-posts. We came in on a fine Saturday
evening, and were quite taken with the
lively stir and picturesqueness of the place
like some foreign scene with the people
walking about and the band playing under
the trees."

Most of our visitors are captivated by the
rural charm of the old village, which we have
done our best to brinor into the new. Time

o

will stand our friend, and tint and clothe what
is cold and bare yet."

And you have religious privileges. The

old clergyman looks benign, and] Mr. Orme
can preach a sermon to do one good."

Mr. Orme Is only hired for a term, but
we trust to keep him permanently when the
new church is consecrated."

Mrs. Midas ran up to Mrs. Denys with
both hands out and a gush of greeting, and the
stranger moved away. Poor, pretty little lady,
her clothes grew finer every season and her
manner more effusive, keeping pace with her
husband's increasing wealth and unpopularity.
Mrs. Denys had come to be rather sorry for
her. She had a restless vanity and love of
display, and suffered profoundly from her
secret consciousness that no real prestige
attached to her position as the squire's wife at
Cambourne. Cambourne, like Cote, had welcomed
immigrants from the ends of the earth
Jews, Greeks, stock-brokers, and others, all
complete infidels as regards the title of country

squires to receive honour when by their deeds
they have deserved none.

'* I don't believe that some of them even
know who we are," Mrs. Midas added in a
plaintive whisper when she had recounted to
Mrs. Denys some recent, awful instance of
trespass on their cherished prerogative.

Mrs. Denys forbore to smile : '' You have
a set-off against what you complain of. Mr.
Midas is sufficiently appreciated by his own
friends," she answered with gravity. '* They
have made him chairman of the Lowborn'
bench since Sir Martin Deane Foxe retired.
And have not the way-wardens of the peninsula
elected him their chairman  in blunt
rejoinder, as it would seem, to the appeal
made to them against him for closing a
pleasant walk which is claimed as a right of
way ? "

*' Oh, that was political Influence. Old

Boreas showed on the other side, and we are
still masters of the situation there. But it
was, perhaps, too much zeal."

It was certainly too much zeal. It was a
very great pity that Mr. Essex-Brough should
think it excusable to circulate a lie with a
circumstance to serve your husband in such a
case, and that Mr. Barter and Mr. Sale should
put their names to letters prepared for the
newspapers in his solicitor's office. But it was
a still greater pity that local authorities, holding
a trust for the public, should appear to consider
a gentleman who accepted such services
the fittest amongst them to rule their counsels.
While gentlemen go these lengths for one
another, and call it loyalty, we must expect
strangers, educated in a different school, to
break out in contempt of them sometimes,
and raise a shout for justice."

*' And not get it," Mrs. Midas added with

a titter of foolish triumph. *' It was made a
party affair, you know, and we won."

You won, I know. Whether the principle
that gave you the victory may not entail a
worse ultimate loss remains to be seen. The
judge, my grandfather, is very angry that such
pranks are being played and condoned in the
name of his political party. He says that
common feeling has now a strong, steady drift
in favour of courage, character, and noble
conduct."

Oh, nothing succeeds like success ! I love
to win  the means don't concern me, nor
whether the cause is altogether good. Party
spirit cares nothing for common feeling."

More s the pity  it has the truer touch,"
Mrs. Denys said a little sadly.

The two ladies had turned into the broad
walk, and saw coming towards them their
respective husbands. No two men could have

afforded a more striking contrast. Time was
dealing kindly with Mr. Denys, who had got
the better of his accidents and misfortunes,
and carried his nearly sixty years with robust
ease; while Mr. Midas, never very wholesome
to look at, had now the flushed face and thick
utterance of a man who drinks habitually too
much wine. His success had not entirely
succeeded. He had lost the swaggering pomposity
of gait and manner that he had when
he was younger, and walked with a heavy
foot, and head hanging down. When first he
dipped his hand into the lucky-bag of fortune
he drew a rare prize, and his aspect proved,
if anything could prove it, that he had not
been equal to his gift. He had drawn Cam-bourne
for his inheritance, and had cared no
more for it than if it had been a mere mine
to dig money out of. Just now he was at
his wits' end, driven hither and thither by

the multiplied mean vexations of business in
arrears, neglected, muddled, and mismanaged.
His steward had gone off with a large plunder,
and had left him to reap the consequence of
trusting his affairs to a man whose want of
integrity had been long a common tale.

The gentleman had been up to the new
church. '' We shall be ready for the consecration
next summer, Delia," Mr. Denys said to
his wife as they met.

Before next summer, I hope, Hugh. And
what does Mr. Midas think of the round we

o

have laid out to bury our dead ? "

Mr. Midas answered that it was not what
/le thought, but what the bishop might think,
that it imported them to know. His wife set
her eyes upon him uneasily. They had a
burning question of a burial-ground on hand
at Cambourne just then themselves, and Mr.
Midas was apt to lose his temper about it.

The bishop has a name that he is wise,"
said Mr. Denys. '' The bishop knows that
the world has a future, and that the Church
will stand the firmer for enlarging her foundations.
He will not be sorry to hear that we
have found a way of peace to the grave with
Dissenters."

What is it  your way of peace ? " Mrs.
Midas inquired, anxious and disturbed, but
smiling with her lips.

*' It is nothing but enclosing the whole burial-ground
with one wall, and separating by a
double line of trees an acre of it for our neighbours
who do not come to church. The bishop
and his clergy can march on the inner side
of the trees when they read the consecration
service ; and the next day the minister of
Salem can come with his congregation and
bless their lot. Clarges has no objections, and
I have none."

*' I suppose those are what you call Liberal
notions, and you are going to stand for the
county ? " Mr. Midas suggested with a covert
sneer.

Mr. Denys laughed : " I call them truly
Conservative notions. It is you who are the
subverters, who use your party flag for a cloak
of maliciousness," retorted he, and disclaimed
all. ambition of standing for the county.

Delia did not see why he should disclaim it,
and Mrs. Midas asked her husband if there
was any reason why he should not come forward
himself. Mr. Midas growled that a contest
was expensive, and the issue doubtful :
'' But it is my intention to give a burial-ground
to Cambourne eventually  eventually,"
he announced with nervous emphasis as Sir
Thomas Britton came up with Mr. Clarges.

People cannot wait to be buried eventually,
they must be buried when they die ; and in the

VOL. III. F

meanwhile it is a long way to carry a corpse
to Marshleas," the old fox-hunter objected.

The Cambourne grievance was likely to
become a burden and tax upon himself.
Marshleas Church was the mother church of
the peninsula, and the separate parishes had
ancient rights of burial there, which, after being
allowed to lapse for many years, were
being re-claimed by Cambourne under the
necessity of wider room for the new population
 a measure which was causing extra



ordinary feeling and disturbance.

Mr. Clarges tenderly turned the conversation
: " If the last news be true, there will be
no contest for the county  Mr. James Herrick
of Knowle has consented to be put in nomination,"
he said cheerfully.

Politics again," murmured Mrs. Midas, and
moved a step onwards, inviting Mrs. Denys to
follow. '' I don't care for public affairs unless

my husband is interested, and I fancy that he
has no chance of being county member," she
said, and sighed, avowing that she would
enjoy the dignity of county member's wife
immensely.

Mrs. Denys was silent. She coloured softly,
remembering and reflecting. Mr. James Herrick
had represented Newbury for nine years,
and was a man of mark in the House of
Commons. His wife had once complained to
her Cousin Delia that when Parliament was
sitting she saw nothing of Jem. She judged
Delia to be the more fortunate woman because
her husband need never be absent. " And
you have a son  I have none but girls," pretty
Fanny lamented. The days were long gone
by, and grown dim in memory, when her
Cousin Fanny denied to Delia the company
of Mr. Denys to dinner at Knowle. They
did not stay In each other s houses, but they

were perfect friends, and met in London, at
Navestock rectory, and more rarely at Danes-more,
with entire satisfaction and cordiality.

Towards five o'clock the company In the
Dutch garden received several accessions.
Lady Herrick arrived with one of her granddaughters,
and proudly confirmed Mr. Clarges
Information, which, Indeed, he had from Sir
John.

*' This is Clara, James' second girl," said
she, presenting her to Mrs. Denys ; and Clara
looked up with a pair of blue eyes as brightly
shy as her mother's at the same blushing age.
Hugh Oliver was Inquired for, but was not
forthcoming. Marie Irene was proposed instead,
but the little girl said quietly that she
would stay with grandmamma.

Mrs. Essex - Brough appeared by herself,
leaving her husband reluctantly.

Mrs. Midas met her with her customary

flutter : '' You have escaped for a while ! How
jaded you look  how I do pity you ! " cried the
lively young lady. 'what should I do if I
were in your place?"

Your duty, I hope," said Miss Nancy
Clarges with a kind seriousness, hearing her,
and intervening.

Don't pity me ; my husband made me
come. I carry him back a little talk," Mrs.
Essex-Brough answered, and accepted Miss
Nancy's proffered company. Her faithfulness
in trouble was a support that even Mrs. 
was fond of.

Mrs. Consett came, and sauntered here and
there with Cousin Elizabeth Paul, glad of
a respite from the noise of her houseful of
children, and a glimpse of the gay world that
she had lived in once. Cousin Elizabeth Paul
observed with a touch of pathos how every
year they missed some of the faces familiar

in former seasons. Duchess Adela would
never appear there any more, and Mr. Wilton
had finally departed, not waiting to see the
church finished, or the last stone laid of the
beautiful Green Square. But if some of the
familiar faces had left the scene, others had
come on. The strangers at Cote this summer
of sufficient consequence to be received at the
Manor House were unusually numerous, and
amongst them were foreigners of royal dignity
and world-wide fame, to whom this English
village by the sea was an earthly paradise.
But more interesting to the JiabittLds was
Captain Meade, whose name was inscribed on
the national roll of heroes, and whose story
promised to be distinguished for other episodes
besides that which had won him the Cross
of Valour. There he was, a sun-baked soldier,
with an ugly sword-cut across his right cheek
and severing the eye-brow, the reputed owner

of Navestock New Place, and inquisitively
noticed in his assiduous attendance upon a
young lady in a white gown and blue ribbons
a beautiful young lady evidently at home,
and happy there, but never introduced to the
casual, chance guests of the season.

Who Is she ? " one asked, much admiring
her as the two passed at a little distance under
the trees.

The query was addressed to Mrs. Moth.
Nobody," said that lady, and her countenance
was forbidding.

Captain Meade looked down Into the charming
face, and Marie-Irene looked up like sweet
May, answering to a question put as much in
sport as in curiosity : " Tom Rose  do you
remember Tom Rose ? He is staying with
us. Hucrh Oliver and he are ozone out sallinor-.

o o o

They don't care for afternoons in a garden.
You will see them presently."

But Tom Rose and Hush Oliver did not
appear until the company had departed, and
the lawns and alleys were left to the shades
of evening and silence, and the thronging of
winged creatures that haunt the summer
twilight.

CHAPTER XLI.

YOUNG PEOPLE.

*' I have often thought what a melancholy world this would be without
children, and what an inhuman world without the aged."

Coleridge.

With Hugh Oliver Denys and Tom Rose
went sailing every day of the warm August
weather two or three young Consents, boys
home from school for their holidays as Hugh
Oliver was at home. Captain Meade passed
imperceptibly into treating them as all boys
together, and Tom Rose as the greatest boy
of any  " a regular wild shaver," as Todd
the boatman called him when he was let loose
on the water. His wonderful genius, unless
for mischief, was quite in abeyance.

Captain Meade found Cote agree with him,
and took up his quarters for an indefinite
period at the old thatched inn, opposite the old
original library and bazaar, which still enjoyed
a large measure of public favour under the
new order of things. Occasionally he sat for
an hour of an evening with Mrs. Consett.
Major Consett had fallen in that famous fight
where Captain Meade got his sword-cut across
the face, and in the brief, swift moments of
ebbing life was able to whisper a few words
to his friend and brother-in-arms : " You will
let Kitty know  my poor Kitty, my poor
children. God help her  there are so many
of them."

There were so many of them. Captain
Meade was some time in mastering correctly
their names and ages. The boys came first,
in close succession, and five in all ; then came
Olivia, Helen, and Kitty the less, who, to the

privilege of being the youngest, added the
further privilege of a likeness to her mother,
who was called the prettiest woman in the
regiment when she joined it as Lieutenant
Consett's newly-married wife. And she was
pretty still as his widow, and would be pretty
as long as she lived, for her countenance was
lovely, and her heart warm, tender, trustful,
and peaceful.

Mrs. Consett found the world full of good
people who were all glad to be kind to her.
When she came to Cote in her new mourning,
the bearer of a letter of introduction from
Captain Meade, and was granted a lease of a
spacious, shabby, picturesque cottage under
Mr. Denys, that gentleman felt no delicacy
in directing her to supply her family  so
numerous and so small  with fruit and vegetables
from the kitchen-sadden at the Manor
House, and she felt no delicacy in obeying

his directions, for she needed kindness, and
her cottage had no kitchen-garden belonging
to it. Afterwards, when she took Hugh
Over to teach with her own flock, she became
one of Mrs. Denys' dearest intimates,
and the same relations were continued when
Hugh Oliver passed out of the hands of the
women, and went to Rugby. Marie Irene 
profited by association with the little girls in
the intervals when she emerged from her
convent ; and since she had come home for
good, the intercourse between the two houses,
which was almost daily, had been established
on an easy footing that made Captain Meade
many quiet, unexpected opportunities of improving
her sweet acquaintance.

Mr. Denys knew of these meetings, consented
to them, and was olad.

It was Mrs. Consett's summer morning
custom to take a thoughtful stroll after breakfast

under the deep verandah before sitting
down to the day's work. It refreshed her
spirits and cheered her heart. The cottage
had frown with the growth of some former
family, and was wonderfully pretty in its old
age. Here a gay canariensis decked the
myrtle-green of the walls with a cloud of
yellow butterflies : there a scarlet tropoleum
sported up to the thatch, and peeped in at
a dormer window. Roses foamed over the
verandah, and jessamine and clematis were
preparing a later show and sweetness. All
the house was fragrant as a nosegay, and
clean as wax, but sadly worn and faded.
Mrs. Consett's eye was accustomed to it. She
let the boys and girls go in and out of the
French windows which stood open the day
honos. With eioht of her own and two or
three of other people's, it was impossible to
enforce the minor tidiness of life. But some

consolatory reflection always attended on this
lady's trials. She found much to be thankful
for in that the children enjoyed their health 
a consideration that seemed more important
than the partial absence of pattern from the
parlour carpet, or the total absence of carpet
from the stair.

On a certain clear, warm morning the whole'
brood had scattered themselves in pursuit of
amusement. The boys had probably gone to
the shore. The girls had certainly wandered
off into the green field that adjoined the
garden, for their mother saw the white cotton
bonnet of Kitty the less going along by the
hedge where primroses were profuse in spring,
and her sisters were not likely to be far off
though they were not in sight. She took a
few turns more, and stopped  surely that washer
child's voice in keen distress ? Yes.
There came Kitty, running and stumbling,

loudly, bitterly crying, carrying a load that was
too much for her, all her little white petticoats
smirched with mire, and her pinafore red and
wet with fresh blood.

Oh, my pet ! she has surely fallen ! she has
hurt herself!" her mother said, and hastened
to the rescue.

It was Kitty's tender heart that was hurt.
Mr. Swift, passing along the road, had heard
her cry, and was there as soon as her mother.
When Kitty saw help coming, she plumped
softly down on the grass, and uncuddled her
burden with a new outburst of tears : " Oh,
my Comfy, my Comfy, that I love so I " washer
pitiful cry. The doctor stooped to see.
It was Kitty's pussy, which had met the sad
fate of marauders. Her eyes were glazing,
she was warm yet. Kitty laid her face down
on the soft fur, and refused to be separated
from her pussy.

Just then appeared advancing up the field,
from the opposite direction, Mr. Denys and
Hugh Oliver. Everybody was sorry for
Kitty's bereavement. Hugh OHver sat on his
heels beside her, and stroked pussy's coat  a
kindness and sympathy that went to the child's
heart. She tried to tell him about it  how
Comfy was missing at breakfast-time, and she
had crone to seek her  but broke down with
more tears, more sobs. Kitty was seven years
old, and this was a grief indeed.

'she's gone where good pussies go," said
Mr. Denys. " Hugh Oliver shall write her
elegy."

Kitty's sisters stood near, glistening in
unison. The children were left to console one
another, and were presently seen superintending
a grave. When pussy's obsequies were
ended, Hugh Oliver kissed Kitty to staunch
her tears, and Helen led her into the house to

put on clean apparel. Hugh Oliver then
joined his father in Mrs. Consett's parlour,
where they were talking business.

Mr. Denys had fallen into the way of being
a helpful adviser of the widow with many sons,
and had come brininor favourable news from

o o

Mr. Gooden for the eldest, who would have
liked of all things to be a squire, but failing
that, for want of land of his own, had determined
to be the next best things  a farmer of
somebody else's land. Mr. Denys had negotiated
the lad's going to his own principal tenant
for a year or two's instruction, and Mrs.
Consett was feeling very happy in the assurance
that Charlie's future was being well prepared
for. Their talk was nearly over when
Hugh Oliver presented himself, and was asked
what he had done with Kitty. He gave his
touching account, and as his father and he

were about leaving, Kitty came in to tell her
VOL. in. G

Story, looking like a white flower with the dew
not shaken from it yet. She stood by Mr.
Denys with the fearless frankness of a child
accustomed to indulgence, and he seemed to
listen to her with a pathetic delight. Mrs.
Consett thought he was behoof reminded of his
own little skirts whom he had lost. When he
lifted Kitty on his knee, she sighed the last
sioh of her exhausted sorrow, leaning against
his breast. It was over, and she was tired
of it  open to consolation and new loves after
the manner of her age. Mr. Denys mentioned
some furry favourites of his own at home,
and proposed that Kitty should come to the
Manor House and make friends With them.

There's no time like the present," he said
to her mother. '' Hughie and I are ooino
across the Green Square, and may stop a few
minutes at the church, but Kitty shall not
be tired. She shall have her dinner at one

o'clock, and Marie-Irene shall bring her back
in the afternoon."

Mrs. Consett was sure the child would be
safe, and Mr. Denys led her off just as she
was in her cotton bonnet and frilled slip over
her frock, a pretty picture of a little country
girl any way and every way. Kitty was pleased
to go, and in the simplicity of her heart made
no ado, but entered into interesting conversation
with both her companions on the road.
They were also themselves the cause of conversation,
then and afterwards.

It was the time of mornings when all the
world was out-of-doors, expatiating in the sunshine
and sea-air  the people who lived at
Cote, the people who were there for the season,
and the people who had come only to spend
the day  shoals of these last, of every degree,
in every variety of costume. There had been
rain the night before, and when Mr. Denys

turned into the Green Square with his son
and Httle Kitty Consett, its aspect was extraordinarily
bright, animated, and fresh. Strangers
were apt to be charmed with the Green
Square at Cote beyond anything they found at
Marshleas or Cambourne. It had a breadth
of shadow on the north side, which was a busy
market-scene for a couple of hours before noon.
Buying and selling were going on with vivacity
now in front of the open stalls, and on the
edge of the flags, where women who sold
butter and fresh eggs, vegetables and fruit, sat
at the receipt of custom. In the distance,
under one of the great isolated trees, Mr.
Denys descried Mr. Clarges and Mr. Orme,
the centre of a group of gentlemen and workmen,
viewing the church tower, from which the
scaffolding had been removed since yesterday,
and went straight across to them in the
blinding sun.

Old Crump, who was on the skirts of the
crowd, spoke to the squire as he passed, and
followed the boy with his eyes. He had a
great favour and affection for Hugh Oliver,
who always used him with civility.

It is a noble church, and crowns the
Green Square, Mr. Denys," the rector said,
and seemed in hloh oood-humour.

'' And now for the bells," added Mr. Orme
valiantly.

You must wait for the bells till my son Is
married. You shall have the bells to ring at
my son's wedding," Mr. Denys answered in
the same voice.

Hugh Oliver stood by, a bluff school-boy,
ruddy and brown, showing his white teeth in a
rare laugh, and holding little Kitty Consett by
the hand.

The rector said well that the church was a
noble church, and crowned the Green Square.

It wanted nothing now that the great tower
dominated it, looking over all to the sea, a
landmark for all the country round. The
lime-trees that were young when the Green
Square was a swampy field were a thick screen
of leafy coolness now. The solid, tall houses
built where Moffatt's Corner had been done
away, rose against the blue sky with peaked
gables, irregular roof-lines, and many-formed
chimney-stacks. All the houses on the place
showed an amiable rivalry in their adornment.
Some were wreathed to the topmost cornice
with florid garniture of ivy, green, golden and
silver. Some had traced their window-lines
with roses, and draped them with curtains
of clematis, purple, blue, and fragrant white.
Some waited for their chief glory until the
early frosts made the Virginian creeper burn
red as scarlet and fire upon the walls. Anything
would grow that was planted and kindly

cared for. The myrtle covered the stones Hke
a mantle of velvet sown with pearls ; the
magnolia blossomed abundantly in seasons of
steady, prolonged heat ; and the Spanish jessamine
revealed its stars in every warm, southern
nook. The people who took pains with their
houses were aware that Mrs. Denys was
gratified ; and they had their reward in the
beauty and pleasantness of the place, in the admiration
it excited, and the favour it brought
them. Cote was said now to be as full as it
would hold, and indeed the lively stir that
morning, the air of bustle and business, bore
out the assertion, and sustained the boast.
And all this, as Crump said, at no cost but
of a little thought, and work in overtime.

Mr. Denys did not halt long to contemplate
the church tower. " The finest effect is in the
evening. Your mother will like to come at sunset,"
he said to Hugh Oliver as they walked on.

This is the night the band plays," the boy
objected.

'* We will not mind that, for once. The
evening will be very soft and beautiful after
this hot day. To-morrow we must go to
Navestock."

Kitty did not flag at all, but her face was
very rosy when Mr. Denys presented her
before his wife in her morning-room, where
she was busy with her letters, and affairs of
business, as her custom was at that hour. She
turned her head without rising, but was kind
and gracious enough when she saw her little
visitor. Everybody was fond of Kitty.

I have brought you company, Delia.
Make much of her, for she has been in sad
trouble to-day," Mr. Denys said. " Where is
Marie-Irene, and where is Muff?"

Muff looked round from the window-sill
where she was sunning herself  a white

Persian cat with turquoise-blue eyes, and evidently
not deaf as prejudiced witnesses love to
aver that blue-eyed, white Persian cats are.

Marie Irene was in the garden with a book.
Hugh Oliver took Kitty and went in quest
of her. Muff courteously attending them, and
returning when they were called to dinner.

Dinner over, there was a tour of inspection,
conducted by the squire himself, all round the
premises, wherever there was any creature,
gamesome or young, that Kitty might be
pleased to have an introduction to  ball-like
puppies, a calf with spikes on its nose, a foal
with frail, long legs, cocks and hens, ducks,
turkeys. Mrs. Brice, looking out from the
still-room window, saw the master pass, carrying
the child thrush the imminent numerous
perils of the poultry-yard. " Poor master ! just
so I've seen him carry his own little girls,
many's the time," she said.

Mrs. Denys and Marie-Irene, in vast,
slouched straw hats, were of the party, and
the carriage came to the door for their afternoon
drive before the inspection was finished.
That brought it to an end, however, and
Kitty's mourning comforts were wound up by
her conveyance home with a kitten of Muff's
Hneage in her lap, and a basket of strawberries
for her mother.

*' And has my pet been happy  very
happy ? " Mrs. Consett tenderly inquired.
Kitty had been so happy that words could
not utter it. Nevertheless, the first thing she
did was to go and sit by Comfy's grave,
and promise never, never to forget her.

CHAPTER XLII.

SOME LAST WORDS.

I have too grieved a heart

To take a tedious leave."

Sha spare.

When the carriage drove away that bore
Kitty Consett home, Mr. Denys walked into
the village, and went down to the Glen House.
The new house had never attained to the
bowery perfections of the old one which had
so many links with Mr. Denys' memory, but
the gardens were little altered, and the hollow
walk under the beech-trees was always the
same  soft under foot and shady over head,
a delightful walk for an invalid who shivers
on any but the warmest days. And this was
now Mr. Essex-Brough's melancholy case. He

was holding his wife's arm, and traveling
slowly up and down, resting often, when Mr.
Denys appeared in sight, and looked along
the green alley to discover whether they were
there.

Here is Mr. Denys, come to relieve you
for an hour, Chattie," he said.

I wish you would not fancy that I am tired
when I am not tired," was his wife's answer.
*' Am I a woman to want a dance when my
husband is lying ill in the next room ? "

No. Let motives alone  they are mixed
and inscrutable often. Mrs. Essex Brough was
a good wife as she was a good neighbour,
the more serviceable as there was the more
need of it. Her husband had been a pitiable
sufferer at intervals since before their marriage,
and a heavy cloud that he had passed under
lately had developed his malady, of which the
fatal issue was predicted at no very long date.

He had not many people to come to see
him, but Mr. Denys, when he was at Cote,
never failed him for a day.

So you are going to Navestock tomorrow
are you going for any length of time ? " the
sick man inquired.

*' I shall be at the Manor House again
within the week. Delia goes with me, and
never stays willingly longer than she must."

I shall last the week, I hope."

I would not leave if the end were likely
to be so soon. Swift gives you a month or
two," Mr. Denys said with great concern.

'' Swift is a good fellow. But I would not
have you stay for me  I might keep you
waiting till you lost patience."

Don't say that. Mr. Denys has never
forgotten to be kind," the sick man's wife
remonstrated.

'' And there is one other person who has

never forgotten to be kind, Cattle," he said
with a touch of compunction. " Let us go
indoors. It begins to be chill when the sun
gets round behind the fir-trees at the back
of the house."

Mr. Essex-brush had done worse things
in his time than circulate that lie with a
circumstance to serve a friend which had been
his final discomfiture. Shielded by the strong
defence of money, he had gone on with impunity
in the perverse ways he loved, fearing
no check and meeting none, until that day
which the fates hold in reserve for men who
tempt their luck too long. That day brought
him face to face with a person of no account
in the world, unless by force and weight of
character, an inconvenient witness in a matter
where his friend wanted backing, and when, at
the critical moment, he applied the lever of
a lie to destroy the value of testimony by

destroying first the credit of a good name, he
raised what he could not support, and what
in falling to the ground fell upon and crushed
himself. He had to answer to the law for his
venturesome use of bad expedients, and few
compassionate his misfortune. He was furiously
angry, and could never resist talking of
it, but he was not ashamed. To the last he
was consistent, and boldly maintained the principle
that a gentleman must play fair with his
equals, but may ride over the rest of the world
as he pleases, and no harm to his honour.

There is a great deal of vapouring about
what a gentleman will do, and what a gentleman
will not do. Look round you, Denys, and
tell me, where is the perfect man ? " he said today.
" Is Midas ideally honest ? Does old
Boreas seek no private ends ? More act by
my principle than avow it. Niggers and low
fellows understand it as well as we. Larches

acquiesces in it with the pious cynicism of all
well-off and well-bred men of his school. It
is the political principle that governs half the
world."

Mr. Denys did not care to enter into the
argument. He knew that it was the principle
which had formerly guided himself whenever
his might came into collision with the right of
weaker folk. But he had kept always on the
safe side of the law. And he had learnt since
a better way.

Mr. Essex-Brough continued his self-exculpation
: " I had no malice against the individual.
I meant him no personal injury in
writing that he was a sort of lunatic. I wanted
to carry our case, and that was only a strong
way of putting my opinion, that it is madness
for a man to fly in the face of his squire. The
fact is, I did not know him, or I should have
let him alone. You cleared the Blythes out of

the Orchard for nothing else, Denys. And
quite right too."

Would to God that I could bring them
back," Mr. Denys said forcibly.

Mrs. Essex-Brough mentioned that Richard
Blythe had been in Cote several times lately.
He is here to-day," she said. '' I met him
as I was riding up to the down this morning
before breakfast."

*' I had not heard of it. Why is he here ? "
Mr. Denys was evidently taken by surprise.

He made no sign  and yet I think he
must have known me," the lady replied.

There was a sudden cessation of talk. Mr

Denys air was grave and pre-occupied, as if

some urgent thought had presented Itself to

him at the moment. When he got up to go,

and had shaken hands with his condemned

friend once, he returned from the door again

to repeat his good-byes.

VOL. in. H

In case you see me no more ? " Mr.
Essex-Brough said with a grim smile.

"In case you see me no more," Mr. Denys
answered. " As the Lord Hveth, there is but a
step between any of us and death ! "

A quarter of an hour after the squire was
gone, Mr. Essex-Brough said to his wife :
'' What did Denys mean, Chattie  ' As the
Lord liveth, there is but a step between any of
us and death ? ' "

He was speaking out of the Bible. I
don't know what he meant," was her reply ;
but she had been considering it too.

An unexpected concurrence of events had
suddenly brought up before Mr. Deny's' mind
some spectres of the past. Was he afraid of
them ? He testified no fear, and would have
confessed to none, but he went straight home
from the Glen House, and did a thing that it

had been long his intention to do, but which
he had delayed from a natural reluctance to
act as in anticipation of death, when there was
no threatening of death unless in his secret
consciousness. He wrote several letters which
he consigned to a locked drawer of his writings
 Delia would have the key in the event
that he was preparing for. Then he turned
to the destroying of letters  destroying some
with a cruel pain of remembrance, no doubt;
but having besun the task, he did not linger
over it. His Cousin Ralph was his own master
again, and he was going to Navestock tomorrow
 his peril none the less because experts
had decreed poor Ralph recovered of
his lunacy. And Richard Blythe was back
at Cote  had been at Cote several times lately.
Why ? Mr. Denys had heard of what was
called his rancour when he went away, and
he had heard nothing of him since. This was

first in his recollection, therefore  not that he
believed much of Richard's rancour ( it was
not like the man), but his re-appearance on
the scene of his griefs at the moment when
Ralph Denys was free again to prosecute his
revenges, did give an impetus to the dormant
superstition in his mind  if that may be called
superstition which was really faith in the
working out of law, and a foresight of probable
consequences. When his wife and Marie-irene
returned from their drive, Delia sought
her husband there  in his private room, where
he was commonly to be found at that hour,
and found him still busy. The saddest part
of his duty was completed, but it was not all
done. The drawers of his escritoire were
open, but some had yet to disgorge their contents,
and the contents of others were strewn
on the floor and on the tables.

'what are you doing, Hugh? What are

these old papers lying all over the place ? "
his wife asked, looking about.

'' Letters. I have been sorting them, and
putting in order what are necessary to be kept.
They are not many. Those may be burned."
He gathered up an armful, cast them into
the fire-grate, struck a match, and set them
alight there and then  not the first batch by
the ashes on the hearth. 'rit gives no end
of pain and trouble to look through a man's
papers after he is gone. I will not leave you
that bad legacy, Delia. These are family
letters  of no interest any more." He spoke
with studied indifference.

Delia stood with a doubtful aspect, watching
their destruction. " I save very few letters,"
she said musingly.

'that is the best way. Answer them, if they
want answering and have done with them."

"Yours and my boy's, and a few more,"

'' Amongst these were mine to my mother
when I was Huohle's aee  letters from school
chiefly."

Delia picked up a charred page that had
fallen between the bars. It was nothing  a
blank page. She seemed disappointed : " I
should have liked to read those letters of
yours from Rugby. Are they all burnt ? "
she inquired.

Yes, I believe so. They were not worth
reading. Look here." Mr. Denys held out
to her as he spoke an oval miniature, not
very well painted, and set only in a rim of
tarnished metal.

*' Who is it ? Can it possibly be yot ? ''
Delia said, smiling over it with a very real
and good-humoured amuse went.

It was the portrait of a sturdy little boy ina
white frock and red sash and shoulder-knots,
with fair hair cut straight across his forehead,

and great blue eyes full of vivacity  a mother's
darling one day, no doubt.

It is like you yet," Delia said again. " I
shall take possession of it."

Mr. Denys held another miniature in his
hand, from which he glanced once or twice at
his wife as she was speaking. " Take this,"
he said at last. " I am rather jealous of your
remembrance."

Delia's beautiful blush and the sudden
brightness of her eyes announced her pride
and delight in the Qrlft which her husband
presented with his short, " Take this." It was
a likeness of himself, excellent, admirable, by
a great artist who had known his sitter intimately
since they were both young men.

'' I was keeping it in reserve until tomorrow,
our wedding-day," Mr. Denys said.

*' And this is our wedding-eve ! I did not
think when I was so miserable all that while

ago that I could ever be so quiet and contented
as I am. Oh, my dear, you have been very
good to me," DeHa answered, and came near
to thank him.

Better than you expected, eh ? " he said,
looking in her face. " Tell them so when I am
gone. They were hard upon me, but you were
stout-hearted, and faithful, and tender. God
bless you, my wife, for the years I have been
happy with you ! "

*god make them many more, dear Hugh,
I pray."

If Delia dissolved in tears at this it was because
she thought of the sorrows they had lived
through together as well as of the joys. But
there seemed a truce to sorrows at this time.
All was going well at Cote, and there was a
peep of light on the horizon where Mr. Denys
looked for the rising of that star of his hopes,
which he expected to culminate at New Place.

Captain Meade dined at the Manor House this
evening, and Marie Irene put on a white gown
that somebody had said became her exceedingly
 a white gown with much cloudy softness
of lace about it, and garnet-coloured roses in
her hair that Captain Meade had brought her
from Mrs. Consett's garden. There were signs
that the young lady began to care for the
hero's approval, and as they walked across the
Green Square, following in the wake of Mr.
and Mrs. Denys, to view the church tower at
sunset, it was remarked that they had a little
the air of lovers.

A great many people were out besides the
party from the Manor House. A few were outwith
the same object as themselves  to view
the tower finished and unveiled  but more
because it was the custom on a fine summer
evening to assemble in the Green Square when
the band of native talent performed a selection

of music. All ranks and conditions of men
were represented, work folk, trades folk, gentlefolk,
and all taking their pleasure. It was the
custom to keep the shops open also, and to
light them up where there were pretty things
to sell ; and though business was considered
over at seven o'clock, the shopkeepers sat
before their own doors, ready to improve the
hour if there was any call, and enjoying their
lawful rest after the fatigues of the day if
there was none.

It is very gay and amusing : It Is as new
to me as to you," Marie-Irene said to her
companion.

They were passing in front of the centre
house on the south side of the square, the new
inn, a picturesque and capacious building, with
hooded balconies and a garden before it, where
a party of young people, incited by the music,
had got up an impromptu dance. They sang,

as they danced, tira-la-la to the tune. It was
a pretty incident, which a group of common
folk were standing to admire. Mr. and Mrs.
Denys halted for a minute like the rest, then
paced gently on, contemplating the great white
tower in the distance, and exchanging frequent
recognitions with neighbours in frieze and
fustian, and recognitions scarcely less frequent
with other neighbours in broadcloth and silk.

It was Mrs. Denys pride to say that she
knew every face by sight belonging to Cote,
and that her speaking acquaintance was nearly
as extensive. She was greatly beloved and
revered, a most beautiful lady still, but statelier
than when she came first amongst the people,
and with an expression of countenance very
sweetly patient, which they said she had never
lost since her little younger son died. The
squire's way of pulling off the soft grey hat
that was his country-wear was peculiar to himself.

He might have been oolnsf to throw it
down, but back on his head It went again with
the same quick automatic action. For the
instant that he was uncovered, his face was
lifted up, and he looked full at the person he
was greeting. Just so he looked at Richard
Blythe, who, advancing from the opposite
direction, reached the steps leading up to the
churchyard as he did, and stood back rendering
him the homage customary still from
cottager to squire amongst peasants of the
shepherd's type  the old-fashioned homage of
self-respect and rustic good manners. Mr.
and Mrs. Denys went up the steps, Delia with
downcast face, saddened by the recollections
that the unexpected meeting brought to mind,
and her husband not quite unshaken, though
he was in a measure prepared for it.

Blythe looks well. He has prospered
since he went away," Mr. Denys remarked ina

low voice, but cheerful enough ; for, Indeed,
the man's appearance was a relief and satisfaction
to him.

Yes. He would be likely to prosper anywhere,
keeping his health," Delia replied in the
same tone, suppressing a sigh.

They walked round to the north-west of the
church where the splendid glow and flush of
sunset lay over the inland country seen for
miles and miles away. The churchyard had
been planted when the building was begun,
and the young trees, straight-grown and full
of summer leaf, gave promise of a grand maturity.
The enclosure wall was low enough fora
seat here, where the ground fell abruptly on
the outside, and two or three strangers had
found their way in for a quiet hour before the
night. Mr. and Mrs. Denys sat down to rest,
and wait for their young people, who had
loitered, talking, meanwhile, as intimate, dear

friends talk of a work that is to outlive
them.

The church was called of Mr. Denys' building.
It was built to stand for ages, of stone
imperishable, and was glorious for its strength
rather than lovely for any beauty or grace of
exterior ornament. The foundations were
laid deep, as the old companies of freemasons
laid the foundations of the ancient churches ;
and the tower, octagonal in form and buttressed
hugely, rose in a noble lantern high
over the bell-chamber, ready and waiting for
the bells that were not to ring till the founder's
son was wedded. The warm reflections of
the declining sun cast a veil of soft Yio-ht and

o o

delicate colour about the pale, bare walls.

A very few years, and they will have a
permanent covering," Mr. Denys said in
answer to an observation from his wife. 'this
stone takes kindly to the multiplied touches

of time and weather. We have not carved
the great south porch to let the all-devouring
ivy overgrow it, but the base of the tower
may have a garment if you please. As for
the roof, it will soon in this moist climate
acquire the dusky richness of velvet, with
lichen-embroidery like gold."

The church is perfect in form and proportion,
Hugh. And you say that a thousand
people will not fill it ? "

'' A thousand people will not nearly fill it."

I think I am most of all glad that you
have given the people this beautiful ground
to be buried in under its shadow. It seems
a place made for peaceful thoughts. If I were
poor, and lived where the houses are thick,
this should be my garden, to come and be still
for a little in a day. And I hope they will let
the church door be open."

'' It was at your instance I gave this ground,

Delia. Now that it Is done, I feel that it was
a duty not to be taken out of my hands. I'll
tell Clarges there must be a daily service."

Oh, yes. A morning service, and an evening
service In the middle of the week. Mr.
Orme is strong enough and willing enough
for all  If only we are allowed to keep him."

We shall keep him if the rector get promotion,
not otherwise. There Is a canonry at
Beauminster likely to be vacant soon, and
Clarges expects it. Then he would resign
Cote, and Orme should have the living."

Here is Blythe coming round the north
side of the church, Hugh  shall we move ? "
Delia asked hastily.

No, better not. Why should I avoid
him ? If the man wants to speak to me, let
him speak," Mr. Denys said. It appeared
that Richard Blythe did want to speak to the
squire, for he came straight to where he was ;

and Mr. Denys, when he saw his object, stood
up and advanced a step to meet him.

Squire," he said, " I've thought that I
should Hke to have a word with you before I
go across the seas. I'm here to take a last
look round the old place. The ship sails from
Plymouth next Monday."

*you are emigrating then, Blythe .' " Mr.
Denys said, regarding him steadfastly.

Yes, sir. I am one of three hundred for
Auckland, that there's not room for at home."

Mrs. Denys was looking up at the shepherd
with the kindliest sympathy. *' Then you
have struck root nowhere else since you left
Cote, Blythe ? " she said.

*' No, ma'am, nor ever shall, I think. I've
been in Scotland shepherding, and on the
borders of Wales, and I've been on the Yorkshire
wolds and the Sussex downs, but I've

never framed to settle in any spot yet. They
VOL. in. I

say the sap rises stronger in a man when he
has been cut down with troubles, if he can
go clean away to a new country."

'' You will get a grant of land out there, and
be your own master," Mr. Denys interposed.

I shall, sir. Not that I think so much
of being my own master as some do. I've
taken wage since the day I was able to do a
hand's turn. But the land is free there, and
for a man to have a homestead of his own,
where no lord can come in and give him
notice to quit, is a fine thing. There were
Blythes at Cote before ever Denyses was
heard of, squire  you ask the old parson to
show you in the register if I'm not right."

*' I know you are right, Blythe, without
asking the parson. I wish there were Blythes
at Cote still. It was a blunder to let you go.
There was no better stock in the place."

*' Then you are sorry, squire ? IVe had

a terrible sore feeling sometimes that you'd
ridden over us rough-shod, and didn't care
what harm you'd done. I shall go away the
lighter for leaving it behind me. That's partly
why I'm here to-day. Cousin Phoebe has
wrote more than once that the master was
sorry, she was sure, and that the lady had put
a stone upon our grave. For which I thought
I'd like to thank her." Blythe's thanks were
silent  given with a prayer and a blessing;
and Mrs. Denys also bent her head for a
minute or two.

'where is your brother, Blythe  Jack, who
went to Spain with the engineers ? " the squire
asked, breaking the pause.

Jack is bound for Auckland too, sir."
"Is he in Cote with you now ? "
'' No, sir." Blythe's negative sounded curt,
perhaps because he could add nothing to
soften it. Jack had refused to come to Cote.

He had shaken the dust off his feet against
the place whence the owner of the soil had
driven them.

In the distance, sauntering that way, appeared
Captain Meade and the graceful, white
figure of Marie Irene. ** Here they come,"
Mr. Denys whispered to his wife. Delia
turned to look at them, and Blythe turned
too, recognising the beautiful girl who used
to visit the Orchard with Phoebe when she
was a child.

'' ril wish you a good-bye, squire and
madam," he said then ; *' and thank you kindly,
ma'am, for what you've done since I saw you
last. I met your son in the road one day,
squire  he didn't know me, and it was
as well. The young lady might remember.
Good-bye, squire  good-bye, madam."

They did not offer to delay him, but Marie-irene
was quick-eyed, and remembered the

t%.

shepherd perfectly, and she remembered too
the walk with her father to the Orchard after
the eviction of the Blythes, and the words of
his confession that had struck her as so sadly
strange. She did not speak, she only watched
the man's receding figure until he turned the
corner of the church, and was out of sight.
Captain Meade seemed struck by him, and
asked who he was.

A former tenant of mine, on his road to
Plymouth, to join an emigrant ship sailing for
Auckland next Monday," Mr. Denys answered.

''A fine fellow. He would have made a
soldier. He has the stuff in him for a successful
emigrant too, but it is a pity that the pick
of the peasantry should find more inducement
to go away than to stop in the country."

There was no rejoinder to Captain Meade's
remark, and the subject dropped.

When Richard Blythe went down the steps

into the Green Square again, the band was still
playing, the people were still walking about,
and the dancers were still dancing on the lawn
before the inn. But the twilight was deepening,
and he reflected within himself that it was
a late hour to go to the rectory. He had had
his word with the squire, and he wanted a
word with the parson too: "Just to leave all
friends at home," he said, knowing the sweetness
of a memory clear of offences. Then he
bethought him that often in former years he
had met the rector strolling up to the old
church in the cool of the summer evenings,
and that perhaps he continued the practice.
If so, he might meet him without oroinof to his
house. His conjecture proved correct. Mr.
Clarges was just issuing from the lower gate
of his garden, which opened on the church
lane, as the shepherd drew near, and stopped
with a perplexed, inquiring gaze towards him.

Blythe made his homage to the parson the
same as to the squire.

I heard you were In Cote, and I am glad
to see you, Blythe," the clergyman said, and
held out his hand.

Blythe took it, glad to be kindly met, and
they walked together up the familiar road.

'' The world seems to have used you fairly
well since you forsook Cote," was the rector's
next remark after a furtive slight survey of
the man. " I take it you repented of your
design to preach a crusade for equality, and
judged it wiser to mind your sheep."

'' No, sir, I've none repented yet," Blythe
answered quietly. '' I've minded my sheep,
but come rough, come smooth, I've said my
say for equality where and when I got the
opening. I'm thinking, sir, perhaps you don't
understand what we mean who want more
equality ? "

** I suppose you want to do away with distinctions
of rank, to be rid of squires and
parsons, of Church and Queen, and to have
a re-distribution of other people's property
to level all down to yourselves, and set up a
democratic paradise on the ruins of law and
order."

*' There may be thick-headed folks who
credit that sort of stuff, sir, but you are not
one of 'em," Blythe rejoined with a natural
touch of scorn. 'rit is what you preach on
Sundays we want, sir ; more of the spirit of
Christ in man's dealings with man. The
Queen, God bless her, may she reign long,
for she's a kind woman. The Church I was
born in I'll uphold to my life's end, for if I
know any good I got it there. There's squires
better than Squire Denys, and squires worse,
and I am not against the whole class because
one did hardly by mine and me, any more than

I'm against all the parsons because you were a
bit of a stumbling-block to us in our trouble.
Squire Denys did not quite know what he did,
and Fve forgiven him. He has turned a new
leaf since, and set a pattern at Navestock, and
here too, sir, here too, that more will follow 
and then you'll see sound progress, a sample
of equality as fair as can be had until the landis
made free ; which God grant speedily, for
the land's sake and the sake of us that live
by it."

What do you mean, Blythe, by the land
being made free f Free for you to take,
though the owner may wish to hold, eh? "

I'll give you an example, sir. Is your land
free  your land at Bourtree  or does a dead
eland keep its grip on it for bairns not born
yet ? " There was a touch of derision in
Blythe's query. The clergyman was a childless
man, and his little estate at Bourtree was

entailed on heirs male. If he could have done
what he liked with it, he would have sold it
to leave the money to his wife, who was a
devoted wife, and lapped him in the ease that
his soul loved. But his hands were tied.

'* I should not oppose a judicious alteration
in the law of entail, Blythe," he said
musingly.

In the ship I sail by, there'll sail a hundred
men of Kent, them and theirs ousted from
home and country because they won't bend
their necks to a yoke heavier than's fit. It is
too much power, the power of exile, in the
landlords' hands, sir."

"You strike at the very root of society,
Blythe, if you interfere with a gentleman's
right to turn out of his cottages tenants who
will not work his land unless they may be
servants on their own terms  servants and
masters too."

The root o' society has been struck at a
good deal, sir, since I first heard tell on it, but
it's had the heaviest jogs from the wind in its
upper branches. It has bushed too much o'
the one side, and when the wind gets up and
blows hard it is likely to breast at the roots
a bit. Cut out the dead wood, and prune the
big boughs into closer form, and it will standfast
and flourish yet. Its shadow spreads too
wide, and the land that is starved o' sunshine
won't grow nought as it should."

'' You view everything through the distorted
medium of your own misfortunes, Blythe," Mr.
Clarges said mournfully.

'' Are you sure it is distorted, sir ? I've
always thought experience cleared the vision.
I've seen other places since I left Cote, and
I've seen this : gentlemen with three or four

o

great houses and estates in as many counties
too much for any child o' man to call his own

and thousands and tens o' thousands delving
the soil with not so much as to rest their foot.
And I've seen gentlemen enlarge their borders

o o

by the short process of running up a fence to
take in what served their poor neighbour fora
field, and sit at quarter sessions after to
sentence other men's stealing."

'' That is true, Blythe, and sorry I am that
it should be true."

''If I had my way I'd have Government
limit the land one man may possess, and bid
him divide or sell when that limit is touched.
And I would have Government keep a sharper
eye on landmarks, and a tighter hand on
wastes everywhere, if it is only to give a
Christian chance to men like me when men
like Denys thrust us out.'

And you would still find influences prevailing
strong and bold enough to defy the
law that traversed the desires and interests

of richer men. If all squires were like the
Herrickss, Britons, and Daventrys, there would
be neither oppression nor extortion to complain
of, but the law was never made yet that
squires like the old Denyses, the Misses, and
the Essex-brought cannot circumvent or loose
when their will is that way set."

And there'd still be parsons to excuse 'em,
no doubt, sir."

Mr. Clarges sighed. " Blythe, you will not
understand me," he said.

Are you so deep, sir, that a man mayn't
fathom you ? I was angry once, but that's
long over. You meant kindly in your way,
only your way wasn't ours. I wouldn't advise
a poor man to yield to wrong for fear of worse
I should give a very different name to what
you call proper submission and humility.
Grandmother would ha bitten her tongue out
afore she'd ha' feigned the thing that was not,

or made believe to honour what she thought
shame on. I hold with her, sir. I say now,
as I said then, if, instead of bringing the
squire's threatening to us when that contention
about the right o' way began, you had
stood up to him like a man fearing God rather
than him, there'd ha' been some chance of his
stopping in his rough courses."

No, Blythe, you are mistaken. There
would have been none. Mr. Denys is too
autocratic to hear remonstrance. I have
always found him the same. When soft words
do not turn away anger we must leave it to
time, and commit our cause  if it be a good
cause  to higher hands."

The clergyman enunciated his views with
emphatic resignedness. The shepherd offered
no rejoinder. They were come to the churchyard
lying hushed and dim in the twilight,
and they spoke of other things.

CHAPTER XLIII.

ONE DAY IN COTE.

** The bravest trophy ever man obtained
Is that which o'er himself, himself hath gained."

Earl of Stirling.

It was splendid weather when Mr. and Mrs.
Denys set out to go to Navestock the next
day. As the square drove through the Green
Square, all the world of Cote was busy transacting:
their morning business and morning
gossip, and such as were judges of horse-flesh,
or aspired to the reputation of judges, dropped
their own interests for a minute to descant on
the spanking pair the gentleman sat behind.
They reckoned it would take an hour and
three-quarters to bring him to Navestock at
that pace  or it might be ten minutes over.

Old Crump stood at the edge of the pavement
near the inn, deeply pondering with Old
Todd what was the portent of a certain thing
that had happened in the town since last night.
It was nothing but a notice posted here
and there on the blank walls that next Saturday
would be published the first issue of a
weekly paper, to be styled The Newsboy.

*' An unpretending title  a promise of late
intelligence," Mr. Denys remarked, and pointed
it out to his wife, who was of opinion that
Cote could have done very well without it.

As the mail-phaeton dashed past, the old
hats of Old Crump and Old Todd made obeisance,
and they continued to gaze after the
squire and his lady until the church corner
was turned, and they were out of sight.

*' I never see the match o' that lady for
beauty and handsomeness yet, Crump," Old
Todd said with the solemn air of a man who

makes a final statement and defies contradiction.
'' And she's good, real good ; ' her
price is above rubies, the heart of her husband
doth safely trust in her'  that is about
what she is. And a mother of sorrows too,
eh?"

Old Crump bent his head in respectful
acquiescence. " Do you recollect, Todd, the
first Sunday ever squire brought her to church,
when she fell asleep while the preaching was
going on, and the poor little motherless lass,
that is the young lady now, lying in her lap,
fell asleep too ? A picture it was, so loving
and pretty."

If I recollect ? who doesn't that was there ?
My old woman at home never tires o' talking
of 'em. If Denys has given her a sore heart
sometimes since, it has been as my wife said 
she's had the love in her that's proved a
sov'ren heal-all. Ay, and it will last. She'll

VOL. III. K

do him good and not evil ail the days of his
life."

They have not taken the boy to Nave-stock
this morning. He is a noble boy yon,"
Crump said, indicating by a motion of the
head towards the Manor House that he
meant Hugh Oliver  young Denys.

'' An uncommon fine, strong boy  favours
both father and mother, but father most."

Todd replied. " And John and George was
fie lads too  very fond I was o' George," he
went on slowly, meditating as he talked. " It
vexes me to think that Denys should ha' used
their mother as he did  it was no marriage,
neither here nor anywhere else, they say now.
We used to hear that the lady held herself
as good a wife as any man's wife i' Cote, and
being a stranger and a Catholic, we paid her
that respect, and said she ought to know best.
Only Widow Blythe was stubborn, and ordered

her boys not to touch their caps. She's gone,
poor soul, and Richard and Jack starting for
t'other side o' the world. We've seen changes,
Mr. Crump, you and me."

"We have so, William Todd  but we
was speaking of poor madam and the squire.
I cannot undertake to explain it," Crump
answered in an official tone, '' but that they
were married in the sight of God, I don't
presume to doubt ; for the squire said they was,
and no wedded pair could be more kind and
faithful. Still, he never pretended that the law
of God was the same as the law by Act of
Parliament, that makes a man's son heir to
his land."

It is hard on lads to come into the world
without the law by Act o' Parliament, and by
this time they've felt it, though what Denys
could do to make amends, I believe he's done,"
Todd remarked.

*' You may be sure of it, William Todd.
The lady had a fortune of her own which
the squire never touched any more than if it
wasn't there ; and she made a will, sharing it
amongst her children. I like to have such
things set on a plain footing ; and that's true,
for I was a witness, and heard it read. It was
short, but all that was needed  the lawyer took
care of that. The young gentlemen have had
their share, and when the young lady is
married she will not go empty-handed."

*' If I am rightly informed she'll carry Nave-stock
in her hand ? " Todd said with a shrewd
twinkle, and a pause, as waiting for a positive
assurance. He got instead a blunt denial.

*' No, that she won't  nor is it fit she
should, William Todd. Navestock has found
its master in a gentleman of the old, ancient
family  in Captain Meade, Guy Francis
Meade."

You need not mention his name  we know
his name, Mr. Crump ; it's no mystery," Todd
rejoined with a rather provoking coolness.
Tve had many a chat with the gentleman
out in my boat, and we hope that them who
binds and looses will consider the price enough
that's paid to buy off the curse."

Old Crump whitened about the mouth, and
stared into the distance without offering any
reply. Coming towards them under the
shadow of the houses was a tall man, with a
stick over his shoulder, and a blue bundle
slunor on it. Todd and the accent observed
him at the same instant.

"It is Richard Blythe ; poor fellow, his
heart's like lead for thinking of what's before
him, and well it may be," the boatman said.
I'd walk with him a mile on his road, but it
is ten o'clock  time I was down on the shore
if I am to get a hiring to-day. This is about

the hour gentlemen mostly come along that
want boats."

Todd moved off, but Crump stood his
ground until Blythe came up with him. They
shook hands, and Crump inquired if he was
going to foot it all the way. He said no, only
as far as Marshleas, where he expected to meet
a friend who was a carrier, and would give him
a cast in his van to Beauminster.

If you go by the van you will pass through
Navestock. The squire and the lady have
gone to Navestock this morning," the old
agent told him. " They will be there only an
hour or two before you."

'' I have had my last word with the squire,
and I am not sorry to have a last word with
you, Mr. Crump, though I've not been to your
house, sir." Crump looked hard at the
shepherd, and chaffered with his lips, but did
not speak. " I am going out of the country, as

you know, sir, and It is not likely we shall
ever meet again. I expect to find Jack at
Beauminster. We take the train at Plymouth
on Sunday night, and the ship sails on
Monday." Crump still gazed, and was silent.
There's not much to say, sir, but only this 
if there's been a thorn in your pillow because
of what was put on you to do against us at the
Orchard, don't let it prick you longer. They're
all dead and gone but Jack and me; and like
grandmother, I'd fain say, before we go, that
we're friends with everybody. Jack bears
no malice, but he can't talk of what's past
yet, and don't care to see the place where
we was all happy together. So he's not
come."

'have you looked in at the Orchard this
visit, Richard ? " Crump now Inquired. '' I have
heard of your being here before, though we
have not happened to meet."

I have looked in at the Orchard whenever
I've been over," Blythe answered. " They
have made quite a gentleman's place of it. I
suppose that is what it must have come to
if we'd been let stay on."

Yes, Richard, that is what it must have
come to there. Five-and-twenty pounds the
acre the gentleman pays  his rent is a hundred
and fifty pounds a year. That's a sumo'
money. But it's a choice spot."

I was glad to see they'd spared the fruit-trees.
The gardener asked me to take a walk
round. He is an intelligent man, and when he
heard where I'm bound, he began to speak o'
shrubs an' plants out there, and I'm to send
him home some seeds and berries that he is
curious about."

'rand that will be a link, Richard," Crump
said almost cheerfully. " We shall have tidings
of a new Cote and a new Orchard, and a

new race of Blythes  Blythes are too good a
stock to be let die."

My heart was burled in Mary's grave,
Mr. Crump. But Jack may marry, we'll hope.
And now I'll bid you good-bye, sir ; I must
be eoinof or the van mioht start and leave me
behind." And with a long grasp of the hand
they parted.

Old Crump's mind was relieved from a
certain anxiety by this interview, much as
Mr. Denys' mind had been relieved. It was
as if a thunder-cloud had rolled away without
a storm. Words had been said, and things
had been done, to keep alive a feeling of
hostility, and from time to time both the
squire and the agent had been reminded of
their former tyranny as if it were the present
manner of their rule. The poor old latter
was glad of the late pardon. He turned to
hobble off on his business with his two sticks,

and traversed the Green Square in the blazing
sun, a sort of fossihsed figure, often speculated
on and wondered at by the modern
generation. He came there every day  two
or three times in every day. There was no
place he liked so well from which to review
his work. He retained his embowered,
thatched cottage near the old church, and his
salary of forty pounds a year with which he had
been rich under the old order before it began
to chancre, and he retained also the name of
agent, but the toil of office was spared him.
His successor let him believe that he was
useful ; and he was so, indeed. He kept his
eye on the builders, that they adhered strictly
to the squire's rules, and he kept an eye on
the trees, and had lately planted four limes
on the high road at a spot where a sweet
shade was a boon that long survived him ;
and he eave advice to strangers on the cultivation

and pruning of myrtles, which were so
common on cottage-walls at Cote that a news-pioneer
from London writing; of his travels
had affronted everybody by describing them
as box  when, if he had only asked the question,
any child in the place could have told
him better.

In these latter days Old Crump enjoyed a
fair share of contentment. His clothing was
still of the thriftiest, and his razor was not
worn with extra service ; habits kept their
hold upon him, but as power dwindled his
neighbours were more friendly, and the successful,
sound progress of Cote was his continual
feast. People thought it odd that Mr.
Denys regarded the old man so much, but
Mr. Denys never changed in his fidelity to his
accustomed servants. He spoke to Crump
first on many occasions yet, leaving him to
pass his orders on to the executive. He had

done so this very morning, pulling up at his
late, and brlneine him out bare-headed to
receive certain instructions about the fixing
of notice-boards to the public where walks
through the fields were not rights of way.

** Strangers straggle three and four abreast
through the erowino corn, who ousht to know
better. They leave the gates open, and the
cattle stray. Giles complains that his sheep
are chased by boys with a dog. All that
idle mischief must be stopped, or everybody's
liberty of roaming in the fields and woods
will have to be curtailed."

The squire was peremptory. Some of the
beautiful ercen walks would have been closed
at this time but for Mrs. Denys' intercession.
She pleaded that the country was necessary
to the comfort of visitors and the prosperity
of the townsfolk, and that it was hard to punish
all for the folly of a few. She had written out

the notices herself, and Crump was delighted
with the precision of their terms. He was on
his mornings round now to give orders at the
carpenter's shop for the construction of the
boards and posts, and to deposit with the
painter copies of the lady's handwriting.

The blast of a horn and the clatter of wheels
made him stand and look back. It was the
yellow break with four horses that belonged
to the inn, chartered for the day by Captain
Meade to give the young Consents and their
friends a treat. The vehicle was as full as it
would cram. Captain Meade himself was in
command, with Harry Consett for lieutenant
blowing the horn from the box-seat, and Hugh
Oliver Denys for guard hanging on at the
rear. Not far behind followed an open carriage,
also well filled, with Mrs. Consett In
charge, and Marie Irene sitting by her. Tom
Rose trotted alongside on a rather sorry nag,

but In capital spirits, though this was the last
day, and the wind-up of his holiday. Everybody
did as Old Crump did, and stood to watch
until the expedition disappeared down the hill
on the road to Cambourne, leaving a long trail
of musical echoes behind it.

"Going a - pleasuring, the young folks,"
called out to the agent with a big voice from
the distance another of the Todds  Ben, an old
blue-jacket who had seen the world, and done
wonders before he retired from the sea. *' It's
good to be young, and go a-pleasuring, Mr.
Crump."

Ay, and it's good to be old, to have done
your duty, and to live at ease on a pension,
Ben Todd," was Crump's reply, and he halted
on his sticks with a tendency to linger and talk
as Ben drew near; for Ben was famous for
conversation, and seemed in the vein.

But to them arrived before their compliments

of greeting were over a stranger in Cote, "an
innovator," as the ancients called him, who
advertised himself as a general agent, and was
probably the person responsible for the advent
of The Newsboy. The innovator took off his
hat with obsequious respect, and a bend of his
whole body. Crump glowered at him, and
looked dangerous.

'' Now what may you be wanting next, Mr.
Crowe ?" he demanded with sulky deprecation,
as if Mr. Crowe's requisitions were unreasonable
and vexatious, yet not too lightly to be
denied.

I am wanting nothing just at present, Mr.
Crump, sir, unless it be a little patience, and I
see you've none to spare," Crowe answered,
not abating his deferential graces, but conveying
a very disagreeable impression by his tone
and smile.

I've told you already that you'll be just

thrown away In Cote, Mr. Crowe," Crump rejoined.
*' Cote ain't at all the field for your
remarkable talents. You'd a deal better carry
'em to Cambourne. There's a fine opening fora
reformer there. Cote is backward."

' Backward ! I believe you," Crowe retorted,
and shook his head as if an awful
state of things was behoof revealed to his inner
consciousness. "It's twenty years behind the
age ! It's a country village yet ! No pier, no
beautiful stuccoed mansions, no slated houses
just your old tiles and thatch, and plain
bricks and stone that you're forced to hide up
with ivy and flowers to make 'em pass. Cote
is the old fashion'dlst place I was ever in.
Backward, indeed  backward's no word for
it!"

Ben Todd's wrath had been brewing from
the moment of Crowe's appearance on the
scene. "Backward yourself! old-fashioned

yourself ! " growled he like an aged mastiff
preparing to tackle an assailant. *' If Cote
ain't got no iron grid to call it a pier, nor
no stuck mansions to mildew an' stan' empty,
it's because we're had more wit nor to build
'em. You'd better be off to wherever you
came from. You'll find nought to please you i'
Cote. Cote don't belong to you, nor you to
Cote. Cote 'ud rather lev your room than
your company. There's not a chink where
you'll fit in. Cote's ruled by law and Gospel
now, whatever it may ha' been i' the former
times. We ain't got no abuses to ventilate.
We ain't got nothing particular to grumble at,
unless it be the weather that blows hard when
the ladies wants to picnic on the water, and I
don't expect' the Newsboy s, got much interest
wi' the clerk o' the weather. It's not likely
when the parsons hasn't : I've heard 'em pray
for a change o' weather i' church, an' no

VOL. III. L

notice taken." Ben paused for breath, contemplated
by Mr. Crowe with a compassionate
eye.

Sir," said the innovator with mournful
emphasis  " sir, there's no social peril so perilous
as resting satisfied with things as they be!'

Ben's breath had returned to him, and he replied
with deep sarcastic intention : " I reckon
that depends on how they be. Cote won't rest
satisfied long wi' soit, if you be what I take you
fur, Mr. Crowe. If you're well advised you'll
move on to Cambourne. At Cambourne
they've got a Loll Bor' to peck at, wish 'em
joy on him, an' a whole battalion o' spies an'
troubles. There's a heap o' folks Squire
Midas don't suit, that can no more change him
than the nose on their faces. Midas ain't done
well by himself, an' folks has given up speaking
well of him. You go to Cambourne, Mr.
Crowe, an' help 'em, an' as likely as not you'll

get a silver mug given. Chaps is often getting
mugs given at Cambourne  happen you'll be
next. We don't give muses at Cote. We finds
it cheaper to keep the peace. We finds it
pays better to do our duty all round, an' to be
o' one mind i' Cote, than to fall out an' fight,
an' mek it up again wi' a subscription for a

mug.

Just so. You are all of one mind to
choose darkness rather than light, and Cote
is without gas  without gas'' Crowe repeated
in the manner of a man who urges a great
accusation.

Old Crump glowered more dangerously than
before, and chaffered faster with his blue lips ;
for, indeed, the lack of gas had been felt as a
flaw in the perfections of Cote. Ben Todd
was more on a level with the occasion. He
laughed derisively, pointing the finger of scorn
at the innovator. " Why, man, where have

you been tarrying this long while not to know
that Cote's waiting till that beautiful Invention
that's to put gas out is tried up In London ?
When they've tried It up I' London, Cote 'full
take to It directly  Cote ain't going to be put
off wl' aught that's second-best at this time o'
day. But If that beautiful Invention don't
quite act at must  why, then, we may get a gasworks
 just for a mekshlft, d'ye see ? "

Crowe was both Impressed and perplexed
He had not heard of the new Invention that
was to put gas out, and was not ready with
a reply. While he hesitated for Inspiration
Crump took the opportunity of retreating, and
Ben Todd followed, flinging a last taunt at his
adversary: "There's gas at Cambourne  awful
bad-smelling gas. There's everything at Cam-bourne
to mek a man like you happy, Mr.
Crowe. You hurry off. Your hair's growed
a bit, but It's not much out of the fashion for

them as likes it clipped close. Cote'll not miss
you. I don't know as I shall put on mourning
myself, but if I do you'll be sure to hear on it."

The quiet time of day at Cote was in the
afternoon, while the sun was still hot, and the
shadows were not deep enough for the pleasant
sense of shade. The shopkeepers on the
south side of the Green Square were the first
to draw their awnings up, and at four o'clock,
here and there, a figure might be seen standing
in the doorways, looking out for the
revival of life that always began towards five.
The earliest to come out were the young
ladies, picturesquely equipped and costumed
for the archery or tennis ground, attended or
shortly followed by young gentlemen, similarly
accoutred. Next to appear were family groups,
often with a patient ass and panniers in their
midst, returning home with plumes of fern and

foxglove from a children's picnic in the
woods. Instantly, on the stroke of half-past
five, all the trades that help In building struck
work ; and a numerous gang, coming down
from the new church, filed off across the Green
Square. More slowly trudged the old fellows,
gardeners by the day, who eked out the
remnants of life with odd shillings, and refused
to sit down and be idle while the strength
to do a hands-turn was left them.

One of these last, Matthew Burt, mole-catcher
in the peninsula these sixty years,
had appointed a meeting with Old Crump on
business under the great elm-tree at the hour
of leaving work, to save useless steps. True
to time, the agent came up as the other was
sitting down and stretching his loner lean
limbs with a sense of welcome rest.

There was a question of Burt's cottage and
garden, relics of antiquity to which the old

man clung with the tenacity of a life-long

occupation. A new-comer to Cote wanted

them to complete his domain, and Mr. Denys

had said he must make his own bargain with

< >

Burt. It was not his practice now to disturb
any old tenant who wished to keep his holding.
If rich men coveted Naboth's vineyard,
it was open to them to buy Naboth out, but
not to take his vineyard by law or by might.
The stranger had offered Burt a pension of
six shillings a week to give up his cottage,
and Crump, who was always In favour of
Improving an opportunity, wished to persuade
him that he would be more comfortable
with the money living In lodgings and cared
for by a decent neighbour, than he was
living alone In his solitary cottage at Copse
Row, half a mile from the village. Burt
could not see It.

They sat down to have their talk side by

side on the bench encircling the oreat elm-tree,
and having sat down were in no haste to
move again. They began their discussion with
some vigour Crump opened the business.

If you don't want to go, you are free
to stay. You have only to say so, and there's
an end. But you'll stand In your own light
that's my opinion, Matthew Burt, if you
care to know it. You are getting into years."

Eighty-two, Mr. Crump, eighty-two, come
Martinmas  if I live to see it."

That's a long age, Matthew Burt : a man
can't expect to feel young after eighty-two,
though he may get about, and do a tidy bit
o' work when the weather's favourable. And
you'd be better off in the decline o' life with
a quiet widow-woman such as Mrs. Trotter
is to 'tend on you, than left all alone by
yourself up at Copse Row."

I've never been left to myself, Mr. Crump,

never. Them that belonged to me is all gone,
an' I've missed em, but I've never been left
to myself. The ould parson, he's very good ;
he comes up ofttimes, an' sits down, an' says
a word, pondering-like  as if the gret mysteries
was no clearer to him than to me ; an'
then he speaks cheerful  ' This we know,
Burt, them that love God, God loves,' he says,
an' gives me a shake o' the hand, an' goes.
I'm always happier when ould parson's been.
And it seems to me when I'm alone most, in
the night, when I crew thinking q' them that's
gone, an' feel mournful, there's a some one
comes, an' Stan's by me  as it might be my
Saviour. I should be better satisfied to stop
at home, Mr. Crump, an' die there. When I
set the door open I see the last o' the sunset 
it would not be nat'ral not to see the last
o' the sunset, and Mrs. Trotter's door looks
t'other way."

Then we'll let the thing drop, Matthew
Burt. What the squire said was : ' Let him
ofo of his goodwill or not at all.' "

'' Squire could put me out by law, Mr.
Crump ? "

"He could so, and would have done it without
twice thinking once. But he's learned a
different way."

'* The law's a poor imperfect instrument todo
right by, Mr. Crump."

I was never one that reckoned much o'
the law, but a deal depends on the handling.
There's some vei*y queer law i' the peninsula.
I'd rather let a small thief q-q than brings him
up before Lowborn' bench. Squire Midas
ain't much of a man to ha' taken old Sir
Martin Deane Foxe's seat."

I've known Squire Midas a many years.
He don't mean so badly as he sometimes does ;
but I can't name a man, high or low, that I've

felt to pity more than Squire Midas  an' so
proud an pleased as he used to be wi' himself.
First an' last, I'd rather lev the portion God's
given me, Mr. Crump."

When the old men's talk diverged into
general matters, it fell into frequent rests and
pauses. The mole-catcher was hungry for his
supper, but he lingered respectfully until Mr.
Crump should give the sign to move. The air
was very still and delicate. All looked beautiful
: the clear, pale blue of the sky, the full
deep green of the verdure, the softened outlines
and honos slanting shadows of the houses, that
began to stretch across the square. All felt
peaceful. Any noise there was came from a
long way off. Old Crump gazed into the
distance, dimly, drowsily, thinking of nothing.
Figures were appearing by twos and threes
for their evening walk, but they were few yet,
and their feet rang on the pavement.

What's yon ? " Crump said, suddenly waking
up, and lifting his head to listen. '' A
runaway horse ? "

Matthew Burt lifted his head, and listened
too. The sound was too regular, marked, and
even for a horse running away, but somebody
was riding hard on the road, and comines
towards the town.

Crump stood up, supporting himself on his
sticks, and bending all his attention on the
swift rider. "My mind misgives me that
some accident's happened to that party of
young folks that went a-pleasuring this morning,"
he muttered  all his thoughts centred
on the squire's son.

The messenger rode into the Green Square
at a hand-gallop. The sleepy stillness was
broken. All at once the place was astir. The
people poured out of their houses to see and
hear what was up. The messenger drew rein

at the gate of the inn : he was not known
there, but he rode a good horse of the squires,
and its wet flanks declared the pace they had
kept.

Crump had hobbled that way and overheard
him ask at what hour the break was timed to
be back that had carried Captain Meade's
picnic party out beyond Cambourne. It was
timed to be back at nine o'clock. Not till nine
o'clock, and it was only seven now ! He
trotted round to the Manor House, and stopped
a minute at the doctor's door in passing. The
doctor appeared without his hat, and took
his orders himself. In a quarter of an hour
he was off.

'* There goes Dr. Swift," said the people
standing about exchanging speculations and
imperfect intelligence, and Crump observed
that Crowe was speeding after him.

Presently a groom, well mounted and leading

another horse, passed at a sharp trot through
the Green Square  despatched from the Manor
House to intercept young Denys on the road
home, and to carry him across country to
where he was wanted. That incident told a
story. Soon afterwards the light vehicle that
went to Rowborough Market on Saturdays
drove by, conveying Mr. Knapp and Mrs.
Brice.

Crump had spoken to no one, and now he
started to hobble homewards alone. When
he got indoors, and was sat down in his chair,
he said to his niece, who lived with him and
kept his house : " Some misfortune's befallen
the squire. I cannot go to him  I'm too old
and feeble. If it is the end of the curse,
I've lived honos enough."

Vm

-S'

CHAPTER XLIV.

"HERE WE PART COMPANY."

Do not shudder and do not fear,
Hold your breath
For a kingly presence is drawing near.

Blessed is he that cometh
In the name of the Lord.' "

Adelaide Proctor.

At the same hour of the evenings in the
ground-floor room of a roadside inn, Mr.
Denys lay, struck down in the plenitude of
strength, looking death in the face fearlessly
as he had looked most things that had met him
in his course. His wife was with him, helpless
unless by her tender patience. It was so still
in the room that the beat of the clock in the
kitchen across the passage might have been
counted  unconsciously between whiles Delia

did count it, and the thing that had happened
seemed as old as all knowledge.

The place was mid-way betwixt Navestock
and Beauminster, or a little nearer the city.
The principal surgeon at the hospital there had
been sent for post-haste, had come, and was
anxious to be gone again post-haste, too busy
to spend precious time there, where he could
do no oood.

*' I have got my death. I feel that the
wound is mortal," Mr. Denys had said to
him.

A very brief examination, and the surgeon
said : '' Yes, it is indeed mortal." To the
woman of the house he whispered : " It is of
no use teasing him. Keep the flies from his
face."

At that instant Mrs. Denys arrived with Mr.
Arthur Meade. She was intensely still and
self controlled. She knew the surgeon by

sight, and stopped before him. Question and
answer were o-Iven in the exchange of a silent
look. To Mr. Meade the gentleman spoke
a few words with his foot in the stirrup : *' It
is murder, they say, and the police have taken
a man. You are a magistrate, and a clergyman
too ? Then I leave the business in your
hands. One of my assistants had orders to
follow me, and here he comes. He will remain
in the house to render any succour that is possible
 Mr. Denys will not see the morning."

Delia had passed straight Into the room.
Her husband held out his hand to her : " I
made my way here from the Three Beeches :
it was the nearest place. You have been very
quick, love," he said with an eager, pitiful
kindness and thankfulness.

I sent your messenger on to Cote, to bring
Halle."

o

** Quite right, quite right. You met Blox-

VOL. III. M

ham going out ? Then you know my sentence."


DeHa made a sign, but could not speak

adam.

Don't cry, Delia ; I had my warning, and
expected this. Thank God for an easy death
and I leave you your boy."

Delia had no thought of herself, only of her
husband. On his face it was written that
doom was come, and no time to waste.

Take your hat off, and sit down near me
here where I can see you : I want you to
mind two or three things I had forgotten," he
said.

A huge chintz - covered squab had been
drawn away from the wall, and on that Mr.
Denys lay prone. His wife took the place
he showed her, the corner of a low seat in the
window, a wide lattice sunk in the thickness
of the wall, from which some plants in pots

had been removed, and set upon the floor.
He could see her there between him and the
light, could see her tears falling, and hold her
hand  fifteen years that day since he married
her, his wife who had been tender and constant
and patient always.

It was a very old house, the first stage out
of Beauminster in coaching days, and much
decayed and sunk in the world now. But the
room was spacious and cool with both leaves
of the lattice open, and, looking towards the
north, had the glow of sunset without its glare.
A garden gay with common flowers lay underneath,
and when Delia's eyes once sought a
moment's relief from the ghostly semblance
of her husband's face, she saw gillyflowers, and
pinks, and tall pale columbines hanging their
heads. And she saw Mr. Meade and the
surgeon's assistant, who had taken refuge in
-a wild hop and honey suckle arbour from the

fervour of the kitchen hire, talking energetically
together.

Mr. Denys had requested to be left with
his wife alone. The one or two things he had
foro-often and wanted her to mind were told

o

brokenly, at intervals, as he found strength,
or as lapsing memory caught at the threads
that were tangled and slipping away.

Marie Irene was very present to him 
Delia was to let Marie Irene 2:0 into retreat
at her convent for a little while if she desired
to do so : " And whatever happens afterwards,
she has her brothers, who love her dearly," he
said, and was silent for some time watching
the sunlight fade alone the wall. He made
no other reference to the marriage that he had
so anxiously schemed for her, and Delia understood
by the manner of his allusion that he
probably foresaw the failure of that hope.
When he spoke next it was to ask whether

the room where old Mrs. Blythe died was
as bare and grim as this where he lay.

Delia leaned down, sobbing, touching his
hand with her lips : '' Oh, my love, what
matters the room ? You are ooine into the
presence of God. I have prayed, God knows
how I have prayed, that you be forgiven that
sin. Remember Christ's love."

I have never been able to forgive myself."
There was another prolonged silence, and
the grey twilight drew like a veil over all.
It was interrupted by the approach of footsteps,
heavy and hurried, that would not be
restrained from coming to the door. Mr.
Denys asked if it was Hughie, and was told
by his mother that it was too soon  Hughie
could not arrive yet. She rose, directing her
observation towards a towering horure that
entered, and, halting a moment to look, advanced
straight to the couch on which her

husband lay stretched. There were other
figures behind in the doorway.

''A Hvinof doff is better than a dead Hon.
He shall not stand in peril for the sake of a
word," said a strong voice, determined and
trembling with excitement, in which Delia
recognised a tone she knew though she could
not see the face of the intruder.

There was a breathless pause, the witnesses
all intent on what next ; and the same voice,
a note lower, said ao;ain : ''A livings doe is
better than a dead lion. You are a deadman,
Denys  speak up, and tell the truth.
Who fired the shot that laid you low ? "

"Who is it that asks?" Mr. Denys said
sharply, as if his fainting senses were stung
into spasmodic strength.

'' It is Jack Blythe  of the Orchard once.
They have taken my brother Richard for your
murder."

It was Cousin Ralph Denys  he's mad,
you know. Ralph Denys at the Warren
House, does everybody hear ? Let them
call in Meade, Delia. I must make a deposition,
or the young men may be hindered from
sailing next Monday."

It was characteristic of Mr. Denys to tell
a plain tale, briefly and without colouring.
Mr. Meade wrote it as he dictated.

It was about four o'clock, on the edge
of Ransome Wood, where the footpath from
the Three Beeches strikes down through the
copse in the direction of Gooden's farm. I
saw Cousin Ralph coming towards me, and
carrying his gun. He was alone. He sang
out, covered me, and fired on the instant.
I swerved or he would have shot me dead 
he was a capital shot always. You will find
his gun lying in the bracken. He threw it
down, and ran away when I dropped. He

laughed and holland as he ran  he's mad,
quite mad, you know, but cunning as they
all are, and he had meant it honos. I did not
go in fear  what would have been the use ?
I knew he would have me some day. I lay
quiet a bit, and then dragged myself along
by the bushes here, and they brought mein."


It had been a supreme effort of resolution,
but Mr. Denys had remembered Delia, and
that nerved him. He had left her at Nave-stock
rectory with her mother and cousin
after they had taken luncheon, intending to
go up to New Place, and had afterwards
changed his mind, and started to walk to
Mr. Gooden's farm in the contrary direction.
He reflected that when he failed to return
she would not know his whereabouts, to have
him sought for, and her distress would be
cruel : so, wounded to death, he had trailed

painfully to this poor shelter, and had sent
for her to come. This he explained in answer
to questions, then heard his account read, and
set his name to it. That done, he seemed to
sink into deeper exhaustion, but continued to
gaze at the powerful, tall figure that stood
aloof in the dim candle-light, gazing fixedly
upon him.

Presently, at a sound outside, Mr. Denys
asked again, " Is that Hughie ?" and said that
he thought he might lie a little easier if his
position were altered. It was Jack Blythe who
raised him. Soon after he drew restless, and
beoan to wander. 'ris Claro-es there ? Old
friend, I should like to hear your voice." Mr.
Meade stooped down, and said something at
his ear. He seemed to listen, but not to be
satisfied. He sighed heavily. Delia was
kneeling by the bed, stifling her sobs. " If I
say a prayer, can you hear me, Hugh ; can you

follow i7iy voice?" she whispered. A momentary
quiver passed over his face, and he said
distinctly : " Surely I can." Here Mr. Swift
came in, looked on him, and stood back out
of sight.

It was still early in the night when Knapp
and Mrs. Bruce arrived. They both entered
the room, the woman clasping her hands, awed,
stealthy-footed, fearful, but Knapp with his
alert, quick manner of obedience, as if he had
just heard his master call.

The familiar sound penetrated Mr. Denys'
dulled senses, and he moved his head. " Is
that you, Knapp?" he asked.

Yes, sir. We made haste. I knew
you would want me, being in trouble, and
Mrs. Bruce too," Knapp answered with
feeling.

You have been crowd servants. How honor

o o

have you known me, Knapp ?"

"From a boy, sir  from a boy just such
another as your own."

You have known the best and the worst
of me, then."

Yes, sir. Your mother was alive at that
time  old madam at Acklam. She was very
lame before she died, sir."

She missed my strong arm to lean on  I
recollect she said so. My dear wife will miss
it too. Hughie, be a better man than your
father was, and take care of your mother."
But Hughie was not there.

o

Lay me straight in the bed, Knapp. Here
we part company  we are sinners all, Clarges
God ha' mercy on us, an' good-night."

It was peep of day when young Denys
arrived, and found his father dead. He
insisted upon seeing him, there and then, and
was not to be dissuaded. Knapp carried the

light, and Mr. Swift folded back the sheet from
the face.

'was this my fathers" the boy said, and
stood staring bewildered on the massive fio-ure
all decently composed, and the visage as if
carven in stone. There was no expression
of pain, and the stillness was more profound
than the stillness of the deepest sleep. Tears
blurred his vision, and with a passionate cry
he said, stooping a little, and taking one of
the cold hands : " Papa, do you hear me ?
all that I promised you I will do." '' But there
was no voice, nor any that answered."

After a while he asked for his mother, and
was told that they had taken her away to the
rectory at Navestock, on which he said that he
would stay t/ie7'e, with his father ; and Knapp,
knowing that his young master, like his old
one who was gone, had some peculiar notions
of goodness and kindness to his own, would not

have him reasoned with, but made him eat and
rest under the same roof : and eat and rest he
did, with the appetite and healthful weariness
of youth, that eats and sleeps in spite of
sorrow.

He was not waking yet in the middle of the
morning when Mr. Orme came, but he was
roused when Mr. Daventry and others arrived,
and sent out of the way of the grim formalities
that follow on a violent death.

Delia had her mother to comfort her, but
her heart yearned at her son's voice. " You
have seen your father, Hughie ? " she asked,
and kissed him.

Yes, mother. And I have told him that
all I promised before I will do."

And then they sat and talked together  the
two in the world nearest to one another now.

CHAPTER XLV.

THE CURSE ENDED.
One event happened to all men."

The day that Mr Denys was buried will belong
remembered in Cote.

''He said he should be back within the week,
and here he comes' Mr. Essex-Brough muttered.
" ' As the Lord liveth, there is but a
step between any of us and death,' he said ;
and this was what he meant, Chattie."

Mr. Essex - Brooch had caused himself to
be brought from the Glen House, which was
off the main road, to the old, original library
and bazaar, and helped upstairs to the pretty
quaint parlour over the shop, to see the last of

his friend. Only his wife was with him, and
she had locked the door.

Cry, Chattie, cry, if it's a relief and comfort
to you. I always knew you loved him, and no
harm to me," he said with cynical coolness.

It was in the pride of the morning. The
dew was on the grass still. The little jangling
bell at the old church had becfun tolling at a
signal that the procession was in sight. The
squire was carried in an open waggon, harnessed
with four splendid draught-horses, in
gala trappings  this by his son's first act of
authority, in deference to a whim that he had
once lightly expressed : " If I die from home 
at Navestock, say  too far to carry me on
men's shoulders, carry me in Gooden's waggon,
with his four black horses ; " and so he was
carried, travelling through the night.

All the way up the church road was lined
with people  Cote people, and strangers from

far and near  who closed in behind the procession,
and crowded the churchyard. A
space round the graves below the chancel
window had been fenced in, that the curious
might not press too close : there were two
graves open, one a little way off, and across
the foot of the other, by which stood already
the coffin that was to be placed in it. It was
the coffin of Old Crump. Some who had
often wished him in heaven eyed it with a
touch of compunction. The poor latter, with
no friend but his master, had never looked up
since his death, but had died of that blow.

There were no women amongst the mourners.
The squire's three sons were there, and other
squires and gentlemen many. Those in the
throng who did not know imagined him to
have been a neighbour widely beloved and
respected.

Perhaps he was, latterly. They said nothing

but good of him when he was dead, and there

were plentiful tears when the rector preached

his sermon the next Sunday. The church was

full of folks from all round the peninsula.

This Is a part of what they listened to :

'* Most of you who are here present knew

the two men whom last week we laid In the

narrow house appointed for all living. I am

not here to make their panegyric or their

apology. ' We are sinners all  God have

mercy on us,' with his last breath one of these

two confessed and prayed. So may we confess

and pray  every one, every one. We are

sinners all  God have mercy on us.

Brethren, there Is no life without its misery:

thankless labour, joyless care, the secret sense

of guilt ; but give us patience, hope, contrition,

and our hearts are Infused with strength to

endure, to look up, to do better. We deceive

ourselves, we deceive our neighbour, but God
VOL. III. N

is not deceived. We misjudge ourselves, we
misjudge our neighbour, but God rewards
every man according to his work  his work.
When we take our wages, then we know what
God calls our work, and pay-day comes over
and over again for us, even in this life. Say
you covet money, and make haste to be rich ;
buying and selling  no matter what, be it land,
be it goods  forestalling the market, wearying
yourselves early and late, letting nothing pass
you, in hopes to rest and be satisfied presently
; but just when you look to enter on a
settled prosperity custom forsakes you  you
are found out, pay-day has come : overreaching
and fraud have been your work, not honest
trading. Say you are greedy of power, and
push into an office of authority by sheer force
of interest, not possessing the wisdom and
judicial mind indispensable to the fulfilment
of its duties ; you have got where you wanted

to be, and sit fast, executing your office with
an air of fitness, punishing punctually evildoers
in a small way, letting a great rogue go
here and there if well befriended, and sending
to prison by mischance an innocent person or
two ; and then pay-day falls due, and your
washes are not honour, but derision and contempt,
and a downfall. Or say that you area
minister of the Gospel, and you love ease
and that men should speak well of you  that
you are kindly affectioned, and would choose
rather the way of peace that condoned an evil
than the way of God's appointing that resists
it : you become then a partaker in the evil,
and it is recorded against you ; you have not
been found faithful, and one day your wages
of unfaithfulness are paid you : ' I am in
trouble  come at another time  you have no
message for me now,' whispers a voice in
pain."

PI ere the old clergyman covered his eyes fora
minute. Then he resumed : *' My brethren,
I preach to myself as well as to you. Let
us look more boldly to the life of our Lord
Jesus Christ. Let us behold the Man, and
endeavour henceforth to follow more closely
the example of His self-renunciation, His courage,
and His great humility. We have all
some law in our members warrior against the
law of our mind, and have need every day to
ask for grace to withstand its temptation and
discouragement. Seven times tradition says
that Christ fell under His cross on the way to
Calvary, and the outside voices jeered him 
Go on, go on.' There is no more compassion
for the overweiohted and weak amongst ourselves.
They fall, and we cast a stone at
them. But an invisible hand helps them, perhaps,
to rise upon their feet, leads them to
pleasant places, spares them a little before they

go hence, and are no more seen  be sure then
there was a cry : ' Lord, save us, we perish ! '
We will not return upon the lives of the two
men whose deaths are fresh in our remembrance
 the one was but the servant and
shadow of the other. You know as well as
myself what packs they carried, how they
stumbled and fell, and what scant measure of
compassion they got  of htmian compassion.
The Divine compassion was more long-suffering,
and left them a place of repentance.
What ill they did was not covered. What
they did after that was right, wise, and useful,
your children's children may thank God for,
who does not quench the smoking flax beneath
which the faintest spark of aspiration towards
His law still smoulders."

WITH THE YOUNG
GENERATION.

CHAPTER XLVI

WIDOWED.

My sun has set, I dwell

In darkness."

Christina Rossetti.

Most people's lives are divided into three
chief periods. Each has its opening of rapid
incidents, its long tract of monotony, and its
close, which arrives always with the seeming
abruptness of a great change or a great loss.
Mrs. Denys' life was no exception to the
rule. From her birth to her courtship were
twenty years of warm home-love and peace.
Then ensued her marriage with Mr. Denys
of Cote, that seemed of such dark omen,
but came out into the clear at last, and was

happy enough to thank God for when death
cruelly cut it short. Then it was as if a
curtain had been drawn between her and the
world for evermore. If Mr. Denys had died
in his bed, there might have been silence, but
the public inquiry into his killing disinterred
forgotten orHefs and sins, and the carrion crows
of journalism held their inquisition week by
week upon them, re-telling the old stories and
moralising anew over the old scandals like
the chorus of a Greek tragedy. But it was
a deliverance from worse when a jury decided
that his killing was not murder.

There seems more to be said of the evil
that men do than of the good, but at Cote the
good that Mr. Denys had done was seen, and
there they gave him his pennyworth of praise.
At Navestock too  but the good there was but
an act of restitution, incomplete yet, and not
perfectly understood. Nevertheless it was

noted that the curse which had dogged the
Denyses of Cote since Navestock was wrongfully
gotten had ceased ; and some inquirer,
more diligent than the majority, pretended to
the discovery of a rhymed prophecy that
thus and thus it should cease, and the couplet
became current, after the event, as a chime
Ralph Denys had sung in his mad moments.
From this it was an easy speculation for the
wonder-wise that the prophecy had been the
leading agent of its own fulfilment. The ways
of God are past finding out, but what was
certainly authentic was, that Mr. Denys of
Cote was dead, and had left a son to sit in
his seat  a thing that had not happened to
any Denys of Cote for seven generations.

Mrs. Denys' widowhood began in a deep
and settled saloon. She returned to the Manor
House with her boy alone, refusing other
society. She had a mind to shut out the noise

and rumours of the time, but somehow she
could not. If she did not hear, she dreaded
worse than was said, and she could be told
nothing that she had not known Ion or before.
It was like that trial of the dead they held in
ancient Egypt  the truth without gloss  before
decreeing a man's funeral. She would
fain have had Hughie grow up in the belief
that his father was a good man, high in goodmen's
esteem, but he was too old to be cheated
of what the Newsboy made common fame.
One day he asked her not to send him back
to school, but to let him return to the instructions
of Mr. Orme. She consented. Both of
them clung yet to the covert of their mourning,
and they were the best companions for
one another.

Marie Irene was in her convent, John was
in London, George had finally returned to
Rome.

Lady Herrick and Cousin Elizabeth Paul
were the only neighbours to whom the doors
of the Manor House were opened for several
months. Cousin Elizabeth Paul was full of
sorrow, pity, and ruth for her friend, Hugh
Denys, even as Delia herself was. " They
none of them knew him but us," she said.
And Lady Herrick was sensible, encouraging,
strengthening. '' You cannot hold up your
head yet, I know, but look at my Jenny."
Jenny was a two years' widow, and time had
worked the miracle of consolation on her
that Delia could not anticipate. 'your pain
is worse, is stranger than hers, but you have
a joy the moreyou have a son. Let him
carry your thoughts on. Look forward." On
another occasion she bade her dare also to
look back : '' As far back as when you lost
Willie." And, indeed, those last six years
of Mr. Denys' life would have been a quiet

resting-place for his wife's thoughts but for
the defilement of his grave by the ghoulish
purveyors of sensational paragraphs.

It is in the nature of things that grief should
tire, come it from sorrow, or from sorrow and
shame mingled. An immense sympathy waited
on Mrs. Denys, a sympathy as wide as the
love that she had deserved, but for the present
she would none of it. Her heart was out of
tune with tenderness, and burning with indignation.
Give her time.

Her tall fissure had been one of the most
familiar in the neighbourhood from the activity
of her habits, and she was not long missing
from her favourite walks. Labourers going
to their work early in the morning met her
in field and lane, wearing a honos black cloak
and vast slouched straw-hat. She commonly
carried upon her arm a capacious basket. If
she walked through the plantations she would

fill it with fir-cones, chips of wood, and fallen
sticks, and would disencumber herself of the
collection now at one poor cottage, and now
at another. Sometimes the basket disQoro-ed
food  broken bread and meat where children
abounded, or, where there was sickness, a
chicken, a young rabbit, a parcel of tea, of
groats, or a bundle of clothing. The lady
walked at a great pace always, and it was no
unusual thing for her to travel twice and thrice
a day that autumn between the Manor House
and any house of the village where there was
need. In the outskirts she spoke to every
poor body she met. If they were strangers,
she asked their names, occupations, whence
they were coming and whither going. If they
were Cote people, she inquired about their
families and general concerns, which she held
under regular and firm investigation, occasionally
administering help to the unemployed in

the shape of a distasteful task to be undertaken
and finished out of hand, if she suspected that
the reason of their standing idle was a love
of idleness. Few things escaped her, or happened
without her knowledge in the place.
She was called by some too inquisitive and
domineering. There was a mixed, necessitous
proportion amongst the inhabitants now 
women for whom she executed a charity as if
the need of it were a crime, and men whom she
admonished with the severity of a magistrate.
The only creatures never afraid of her were
little children. She did not lecture them as
growing boys and girls gave her often opportunity
to do. If she passed them with a quick,
silent nod, they would stand at gaze with awful
admiration ; but if she addressed them they
would sidle up, and suffer themselves to be
catechised without alarm. Her ordinary manner
had a touch of irritability now, and her

beautiful countenance a shadow of sternness,
but there were times when she would listen
to a tedious sad story with softened eyes and
a warmth of kindness that effaced a multitude
of hasty, petulant words. It became a current
plea for her that, poor lady, she had awful
thoughts to carry about with her  God help
her  and did not always know in what high
gusts of temper she spoke.

That her husband had died as he did was
not, however, the haunting horror to Mrs.
Denys' imagination that her neighbours supposed.
He had never in his lifetime had to
suffer pain, and had said often that to be a
long while a-dying would not suit him. Also
she had hope in his death. She had learnt
to pray once, and women do not quit that
good practice who have any true vision of
the world before them. Her burden was
silence. Other widows might praise their

VOL. III. O

husbands, but she must sit dumb. Mrs.
Consett loved to refer her boys to their father
as a soldier who had done his duty, and died
with honour on the held of battle. Mrs. Wilton
comforted herself with the recollection that her
dear Charlie had been able to accomplish some
good work, ill and suffering as his life was.
But if she spoke of his father to Hughie it
was with bated breath, with tears in her eyes,
and a feeling of deprecation, for Hughie
always blushed. So it came to pass that they
seldom spoke of him at all. Oh, pride in the
dead s a great solace, as pride in the living is
a great joy, and it seemed that she must never
expect to have it.

While Mr. Denys was alive he had given
his wife many useful lessons in the conduct
of affairs, and he had left her sole guardian of
their son and executrix of his will. In the
midst, in the heaviest of her trouble, she had

always enough to do, of actual business that
had to be done, to occupy a considerable part
of every day. Power came to her with independent
authority, but the sense of responsibility
imposed a check on her self-confidence,
and educated her into a sweet reasonableness,
than which there could be no more persuasive
influence with her boy, and no better instrument
of feminine rule. She had Mr. Quorn
to advise her of immediate duties, and with
a prompt and vigorous hand she cut down the
establishment at the Manor House, abolishing
every form of expenditure that was become
unnecessary or that belonged to mere display.
Mr. Denys' hunters were sent to market with
Mr. Essex Brough's ; the mail-phaeton and its
spanking pair were never brought back to
Cote ; and several servants, both indoors and
out, left with a year's wages to seek other
homes. Knapp retired on a pension that his

master had given him, and Mrs. Brice went
away to Acklam, which was her native country,
making room for Phoebe  her mistress' own
woman always, but henceforward to be her
housekeeper also. Mrs. Denys had no feeling
of personal sacrifice in anything she did, and
Mr. Ouorn gave her credit for great judgment
and resolution. Her household was still
liberally planned, and Hugh Oliver had every
indulgence that it was desirable he should have
as future master and owner of all.

But the changed place it was when all was
re-arranged  the dull, quiet place it was,
emptied of the chief figure, and every familiar
sign and token of the lost presence put out
of sioht.

Inevitably there were days when the time
was very long. When the leaves fell and the
robins began to sing, Mrs. Denys went every
morning to the old nursery again, and (ed

Willie's birds, and stood a minute or two before
his trophy of arms hanging always above
the mantel-piece  she seemed to make a religious
observance of former usages. Phoebe
came to her there, and took her orders, and
perhaps they talked a little. After that the
mistress would, as a rule, retire to the room
that had been her husband's for the transaction
of business, and remain shut up there until
Hughie returned at twelve o'clock from his
lessons with Mr. Orme, when they made together
a survey of things round the house out-of-doors,
such as need the owner's eye to keep
them in oood order. From the be2:inninQr Mrs.
Denys took her son into her confidence, and endeavoured
to interest him in the duties of their
condition ; and if Hughie found them tedious
sometimes, or interfering with his liberty, he
was careful not to betray it. His mother felt
a daily growing benefit and pleasure in his

company  he drew her out of herself. Buta
Httle thing happened presently that caused
Mr. Orme to say that the lad would be better
at school.

"He shall go then, after Christmas," his
mother answered, not considering herself.

But after Christmas, when Hughie was
actually gone, she felt herself alone Indeed.
Thereupon Marie-Irene proposed to leave her
convent and come to her. She came with
her bright young face and sweet singing to
make sunshine In the shady place, attracting
about the Manor House other young people
Mrs. Consett's girls, and especially Kitty,
to whom Mrs. Denys affectionately took on
having it called to her remembrance that her
husband had been partial to Kitty, who was
also Hugh Oliver's favourite of the family.

Marie Irene was not for weeping overmuch.
One afternoon towards dusk, in the boudoir,

looking out of the window, she said : " This
is about the time papa used to come back from
his hunting. I wish we could see his old scarlet
coat appearing and disappearing through
the trees. To hear his step and his great
voice aofain  what music ! "

The girl's words had a plaintive intonation,
and Mrs. Denys said : " Does the stillness
weigh upon you, dear ? This is a house of
mourning, you know."

Marie Irene said, '' Oh, no," but she sighed ;
and it was, in fact, stiller than the convent.

A day or two afterwards Captain Meade
presented himself at the Manor House. Mrs.
Denys received him kindly, and sent for
Marie-Irene out of the Dutch garden. She
came, but it was not seen that her countenance
lightened any more at finding him than it
had done at finding other friends and acquaintances
who were admitted now. Captain Meade

was last from London, and she questioned him
of plays and concerts, which were her chief delight
in town ; and when he was gone, she proceeded
to expound her enthusiastic desire for
the opportunity of following on system her
musical and dramatic studies, as if in the design
of turning her talents to professional purposes.
Mrs. Denys heard her attentively. Either she
was an exquisite dissembler, or love was not
in all her thoughts  which was the more
likely ; and this was not the time to speak
of it.

CHAPTER XLVII.

WITH MEMORY.

"Death came unheralded  but it was well."  J, H. NEWMAN.

When the New Year was about three months
old, John Denys ran down to Cote, and, with
Mrs. Denys' consent, carried his sister away,
to make her home with him, and to pursue
her studies according her avowed wish.

Under these circumstances it was not difficult
to persuade Mrs. Denys to go to Auldcaster
for a change. Sir John Daventry was
very anxious that she should make the effort ;
and once there, she was not sorry to be in the
midst of her people, and quit for a while of

the oppressive quiet and solitude of the Manor
House. She had her own Httle old room with
the crewel-worked linen hanorinors, and could
see out of the window the former times and
seasons very well. It was a sad retrospect to
see them, yet on the whole it did her good.
And to talk long with her mother  that did
her good too. With her grandfather there
was still the sense of a barrier. There had
been reconciliation and a renewal of kindness ;
but the delicate spring of loving confidence,
once broken, will bear the marks of fracture
to the end. After the first touching words
of reunion they talked together with a conscious
avoidance of subjects closest to the
heart of both. They made conversation, with
pauses of silence, and fresh starts that never
carried them far. The judge had been ailing,
and was at last, but almost imperceptibly,
become quite the old man  liable to failures

of memory and lapses of attention that seemed
like deafness, but were not that infirmity, for
his hearing was still acute. Delia was orlad she
had come when she saw how he was altered,
though in coming her thoughts had centred on
her own affairs. She had brought with her
the letters that her husband had written and
deposited in the locked drawer of his escritoire
the day preceding his death, and other letters
and papers besides, to prove to her friends
what had never been denied  how good
and thoughtful Mr. Denys always was for
his own.

Mr. Denys had indeed been very good and
thoughtful for all whom his loss would bereave
of a friend or a master, and Delia could not
endure that any of her family should rest
unconvinced of what had made the happiness
of her married life. None of them, perhaps,
cared to be convinced, but they cared to soothe

and satisfy her, and Cricket consented that but
for two or three circumstances, of which he
did not possibly see all the bearings, Mr.
Denys would have been a finer character than
the common run of men. Walter, who was a
lively, irreverent, briefless barrister, gave his
opinion dead against his grandfather in that
famous case where Pericles was quoted, but
afterwards he gave it with even-handed justice
'equally dead against Mr. Denys in the later
and more disastrous contention of the Orchard.
One or other of her brothers was always ready
to agree with Delia, whatever her manifest
humour of the moment ; but it was evident
soon that the story of events drifting down the
past, which was not tJiei} past, had very little
interest for any one but herself, and that some
passages of it they might all wish to have
buried in oblivion.

Lady Daventry observed her grand-daughter

with a tenderer eye than her wont. She perceived
that her discipline had been severe, that
her heart still bled, that her spirit had been
deeply wounded, and her pride cruelly abased.
She perceived also that she was striving to
be at peace again, and putting resentments
from her, and she met her in her own peculiar
fashion.

I understand that you were a very goodwife,
Delia, and guided your husband, of whom
we did not think much, into a nobler way of
life than he had led before he married you,"
she said to her once.

I took him for better, for worse, grannie,
and did my best, but I often failed. He had
to have patience with me too, and before very
long we grew into a true friendship and affection.
No one ever cared for me as he did,
and I have lost him. It is more than eight
months ago, and it is as fresh as yesterday."

Your experience has gone beyond mine,
though It Is short in years. I was seventeen
only seventeen  when I married your grandfather,
and God has graciously permitted that
we should grow old together. You are very
handsome still, my dear, and have a long life
before you. I hope your boy improves ? "

He Is a dear, good boy to me, grannie.
I don't wish him better. I have that blessing
left, I thank God, or the long life before me
would seem a very vain and empty thing."

Lady Daventry was touched. She said :
Poor Delia, you fancy you have done with
pride  but it dies hard, poor human pride.
It rears its crest to the last out of the for
of our miseries."

Delia rose from her seat, and walked
through the great parlour to the ante-room,
and came back again, straightening her tall
figure, and stepping stately, as if with a

physical effort of resistance to the weariness
and dejection that stole over her. Cricket
was in his customary place in the bay-window.
He followed his sister with his
eyes, and as she returned up the room he
glanced significantly from her to the portrait
of the French Madam over the mantelpiece.


'' No, Cricket, between then and now there
is a great gulf fixed," she said blushing  but
the likeness was still very like despite her
weeds.

It must have been very like, for the judge,
whose mind let slip recent events to recall
those of former years that were more deeply
branded, once, at waking up from his afternoon
nap, spoke to her as if she were still
the Delia of her lustrous girlhood, and he her
loving grandfather, not yet aggrieved by her
untoward behaviour and rough wooing. Delia

was fain to smile at what trivialities had been
of chief importance then.

'' A rose-coloured bow or a red rose becomes
you best with a black dress, and a
white cap on a young lady's head I do not
admire  oblige me, my dear, by removing
it. You have beautiful hair  why cover it ?
Time enough to hide your hair if you are
ever so unhappy as to lose a good husband,
and become a widow."

I am a widow now, gran papa," Delia said
softly. " Poor old man, he does not hear,"
she added with exceeding wilfulness.

No, he did not hear, or he did not notice.
'' Your Cousin Fanny is to marry Mr. James
Herrick of Knowle. That is famous promotion
for Fan. Yes, my dear, and some
day, I hope, as fine a fellow as Jem Herrick
will be on his knees to you."

** I chose for myself, gran'papa, and I did

not choose ill. I married Mr. Denys of Cote,"
Delia said with gentle distinctness.

The judge gazed at her in sorrowful perplexity
: " Did you, indeed ? I don't remember
it. You were worthy of as good a gentleman
as ever stepped, and Mr. Denys of Cote
was one of a very unfortunate family. What
became of him ? "

He is dead, gran'papa ; I am in mourning
for him," Delia answered, her lips trembling,
her eyes filling with tears.

Dead, is he ? Well, my dear, don't cry 
death comes to all of us, and there is a blessing
in your face for some good man yet."

Another day, when he was stronger, the
judge talked to Delia's mother about her.
It could not fail but that he should, in recent
years, have become impressed by the growth
of her character, and the impression was permanent.
For a long time past he had loved

VOL. III. p

her and believed in her more than she knew,
or than he had ever said until now to her
mother.

*' That poor daughter of yours grieves sadly
it is on my conscience that I have been
unkind to her. Bid her come to me."

Delia came with a more cheerful countenance
 to what profit was it that she vexed
his pathetic senility with her tears ? She
had put off the white coif he disliked, and
sat down on a lower seat by his chair, displaying
a handful of spring flowers.

I have been in the garden, gran'papa.
The sweet old Banksia rose will soon be in
blossom all over the wall, and some of the
lilies are out," she said. " I should like to
lend you my arm, and let you see the pretty
show they make in the sun."

'' You are Delia whom the boys used to
call Mistress Pride  that is now many years

ago ? " he murmured, regarding her wistfully.
But no matter the years  it was in another
life."

Delia disposed her flowers afresh, swift
recollection running to and fro, and tarrying
in many a vanished scene.

Her grandfather continued : " Sleep is coy
with us old people, Delia. I lie awake of
nights very long, and last night in the small
hours I fell a-thinking of Navestock. For the
good done in that lost place, they say that
yotL are most to be thanked. They say that
you were the beginning of it, and Sir Oliver
Denys was munificent because he had faith in
you. There was a difficult work to be accomplished,
and he discerned that you had powers
equal to its success."

'that is more than justice to me, gran'papa,
and for that reason it must be less than justice
to some one else," Delia answered. " I should

like to show you his picture." She went
quickly, and brought that miniature of her
husband which had been his last gift to her,
and the judge put on his spectacles to look
at it.

Artists of genius are seers. This face tells
more and better of its owner than his life ever
showed, Delia," was his criticism.

"It was the face I knew him b}, gran'papa.
Love is a seer too. And of all that was done
at Navestock, nothing would have been done
had not the possibilities that portrait hints at
become actualities. I was full of foolishness
and vanities when I married Mr. Denys, but
I never ceased to pray God that He would so
turn the pity of it that we might thank Him for
bringing us together. And He did. I had
ofreat and bitter trouble. There were times
when I lay down with the feelings of a poor
prisoner who has gone to his trial in the morn



ing with sanguine hopes of acquittal, and sees
the door of the condemned cell shut on him
at night. And my trouble was not for myself,
but for others whom I could not help  which
was worse to bear. There was nothing for It
but patience, striving after duty, and loving
more. It was not until I lost my little son 
you remember Willie ?  that my husband's
heart was truly touched and turned. But after
that  after that  oh, gran'papa, I tire you 
and it Is all over  It Is all over." She broke
down, weeping aloud.

'' Hush, Delia, hush, ni} dear," whispered
her grandfather, greatly moved. " You have
another son. I am very sorry I did you wrong.
The old judge stands at the bar himself, and
pronounces his own sentence. He was unjust,
but God is righteous, who holds the balance.
Gather up your flowers that you have let fall,
and go Into the air. I am tired, as you say,

and will take a little 'rest. Kiss me, my dear,
and forget, if you can, that ever we were not
friends."

Delia gathered up her flowers, and retreated
to the garden again. She had her miniature,
and a letter from Hughie that mornings to read
over, and she had other things to ponder on
besides. She sat down under the cedars where
her mother joined her ; and presently from
next door came the rector, and said that he
was going in for his few daily minutes to seethe
judge.

I left him half an hour ago trying to sleep
a little," Delia mentioned. "He was stronger,
and we had a good talk, but he tired soon."
She was wondering at herself, and yet feeling
happier since that " good talk " than she had
felt for many months.

The rector stayed and chatted on : " We
have had James Herrick over this afternoon.

James looks less jaded than he did at the
beginning of the Easter holidays, but Fan
says truly that ambition pays a heavy toll at
every step on its road to honour. They goto
London tomorrow, just when the spring is
in its beauty, and Knowle most charming."

'' Don't let Cousin Fan complain. James
Herrick's ambition is pure and lofty. Life
should be full of interest for her," Delia said,
with a flash of her animated youthful manner.
The rector thought that she was but little
altered in all these years. The eager tone,
the kindling eye, the commanding look  all
were evoked at the suggestion of high hopes
and noble deeds, and the brave heart beat in
unison.

'' My dear," said her mother, " I see Cricket
making signs to us from the window. I fear
that something has happened."

Delia turned and looked that way, then rose

and went in haste towards the house. She
knew what had happened. The judge was
dead  had died in his chair, in the attitude
of sleep as she left him.

"So soon! so suddenly!" she cried.

'' No, dear, neither soon, nor suddenly. In
God's good time, and full of years and
honours."

CHAPTER XLVIII.

SEEKING SYMPATHY.

Each trial has its weight, which whoso bears

Knows his own woe."

J. H. Newman.

The death of Sir John Daventry was the first
breach in the three generations who had lived
together in the House with Golden Gables, but
though it was a sorrow it had none of the stings
of death. His old wife was soon to follow
him, and Mrs. Denys loved to think of it afterwards
for its peacefulness, and the words of
perfect charity that were his last to her.

Some words of her father were less replete
with comfort. It was a pity, but Delia could
not rest quiet without endeavouring to get
from him moje justice for Hughes father as

she put it, fo7 Hughes sake. No one else at
Auldcaster had appreciated the real ground of
her complaint, but to him she tried to make it
clear. Mr. Daventry was cool, and not too
grave about It, but sincere, as the best way to
cauterise the soreness which laid her open to
constant chafing.

He said : '' Huhle must bear his share of
the burden, and I have no doubt that self-love
will help him as It has helped his mother. I
am bound to believe that Mr. Denys had some
grand qualities, and some qualities very endearing
in private life, but his errors were not
hidden, and I continue of opinion that those
gentlemen were right who objected to receive
him amongst them as a magistrate on the
bench. A severe mortification to him It must
have been."

I never heard of It, papa," Delia said, a
blush overspreading her face suddenly.

I

*' It was SO, my dear. I regret that you
should have heard it now, as Mr. Denies kept
it from you. It was soon after you went to
Cote." They were silent, Delia looking down,
not knowing what to answer ; her father not
caring to speak further lest he should hurt her
more ; for her painful blush burned on.

With some keenness, she said at length :
Those gentlemen must have departed from
their rigorous traditions, and have become
more lax since, I think, papa, if they were
the magistrates who sit at Rowborouoh."

They were gentlemen of the county bench
who meet at Beauminster, Delia."

Even amongst the gentlemen of the county
bench I could mention one or more who are
not conspicuous examples of honour and
sagacity. I have been astonished myself how
they got there. Perhaps political influence had
a hand in it."

Political influence has to do with these
appointments, and men are too often put in
the commission who have given no proofs of
capacity. Mr. Denys' political influence was
considerable, and would have given him a high
standing had he brought a fair personal record
into his new neighbourhood. The world looks
on the surface of a man's life, and does not
look far below the surface, Delia. It is a
truism to say that there are worse rogues
at large than any shut up in prison  all the
law can answer is that they have not ventured
within the sphere of its activity. Mr. Denys
reckoned no friends in the county of the best
sort until he subdued prejudice by his administration
of the Navestock estates. When
Hughie arrives at a man's understandings of
what his father did at Navestock, what he did
unworthily elsewhere will not vex him much.
You would not wish your boy to believe a

lie, or to call wrong right while his character
is forming ? Then let him face the
wronor brought within his ken, and know it
for wrong, and take account, on the other
side, of what was large-hearted, and learn todo
it."

Delia would have persisted in the argument,
but Mr. Daventry felt that no satisfaction to
her could ever come of it, and said in a tone
of wearied remonstrance : " You cannot brings
back yesterday, Delia, and I think you will
consult your own dignity by raising no question
of events and circumstances that are honos
and unalterable."

Is my husband's honour to be nothing tome
? " she rejoined imperiously.

Her father looked at her, but said no more.
His look was sufficiently impressive to silence
his daughter.

Mrs. Denys returned to Cote a iy days

after the judge's funeral. Hugh Oliver had
come from Rugby to attend it, and went home
with his mother. There was the consecration
of the new church to look forward to at
Whitsuntide, when the '' young squire " was to
take his own place, and present his own gift
the communion plate. The ceremonial was
shorn of no observance or splendour customary
on such occasions, and Mrs. Denys was present
at the service with her son. But that was
all. The breakfast for the bishop was given at
the rectory, and Hughie went with Mr. Orme,
leaving his mother solitary, unless for her
fancies and imaginings, which grew into an
agony of heartache as she recalled what had
been her happy anticipations of that day, and
contrasted them with its sad realities of bereavement
and mourning.

Early in the afternoon Lady Herrick, coming
from the rectory to give her an account



of the breakfast, found her in her boudoir
bitterly weeping, and the flood was not to be
stayed. This old friend had loved Delia from
the time when she believed that Delia had
loved her son Jem mistakenly. She sat by
her, and was still while grief had its way, and
then with tender, steady touch applied the
remedy that the wound needed. Delia's
reserve was quite broken down, and she
poured out her heart to Lady Herrick
craving for sympathy, as she might have
done to her mother.

'rit seems so cruel  I can scarcely bear to
think of him for pity ! It does not matter
now  he does not feel it any longer  but
that Hughie should have angry, shame faced
thoughts of his father who was never anything
good to him ! " she burst out passionately.
It is so easy to blame  it is not so easy to
understand. People look at what was done

amiss  they don't look at the amends  they
don't know of the remorse. And Hughie is
shy in speaking of his father, like all the rest.
He just reddens and looks down, and says
nothing  when a word of kindness would have
been of all the comfort in the world to me
to-day!"

I am sorry you missed it, Delia, but I
hope you are a little unjust to Hughie,"
Lady Herrick said with quiet expostulation.
Hughie is inarticulate yet  speech and spirit.
My boys at the same age were dumb, unless
under extreme pressure. If Hughie could
give his thoughts tongue, I don't believe they
would hurt you. But you are his mother, and
he is very reverent of you, which I like to
see.

I could bear anything better than his avoidance
of his father's name. He seems confused
at any reference to him  and yet I'm sure

they loved one another dearly. Perhaps,
that is why  he Is afraid of a blow on his
shrlnklnof heart. He was wretched at having
to go to the breakfast at the rectory this
morning  he just said : ' I suppose I must
go, mother ? ' "

'' Oh, boys are incomprehensible mortals :
by this time he Is glad he went. I assure you
he enjoyed his lobster-salad, and looked very
bonny and animated with his blue eyes intent
on the speakers. He will be able to report to
you all he heard  and that was nothing but
good words of his father, and true words too,
Delia ; for, indeed, dear, your husband did in
Cote and at Navestock what his son may take
a joyful pride In remembering. It would be
well If everybody had such a set-off to show
for their own and their forefathers* blunders
as Mr. Denys In his last years."

Delia began to listen, and to sigh with an

VOL. III. Q

air of weariness and relief. " Then there was
nothing to pain my boy ? " she asked.

Not a word. Colonel Hayman gave his
old comrade his due, and poor Mr. Midas,
after hanging his lip at the praise of his neighbour,
to the wonder of us all stood up and
blurted out an endorsement. Some fellows, he
said, might have taken example by Denys, who
called him not fit for their company. Some
fellows' sins went before them to judgment,
and some fellows' they followed after. Denys
had taken his whips like a man in his lifetime,
and he didn't doubt but the recording angel
had dropt a tear for him at his death. What
he wished to say of Denys was what most men
might say of themselves  if he had known
better he would have done better, and, at all
events, he had founded that church they had
been consecrating. Let a man never despair ;
while there was life there was hope ; and it

was never too late to mend. Oh, it was a
very queer little speech, indeed. The bishop
made himself acquainted with the engraved
figures on his wine-glass ; and the rector, who
is at his best on these genial occasions,
applauded with the tears in his eyes. His
testimony to his old squire was perfect, as his
little tender speeches always are."

Mrs. Denys was gratified, but, perhaps, she
would rather have heard that her husband's encomium
had been pronounced by Sir Thomas
Britton and endorsed by Sir John Herrick.
Hughie did not discriminate so narrowly, and
would have felt grateful to the poorest and
meanest man alive who mentioned his father
with respect. He came home presently, and
bounded up the stairs three steps at once
to his mother's door. She opened it to
see him the quicker  his face contented was
the most precious blessing left her. They

sat down side by side  his arm was round
her.

'' I wish you had been there, mother.
Everybody wanted to know about you  everybody
was very kind," he said hurriedly. '' I
should have been twice as happy with you
there."

*' Who made the finest speech, Hughie ? "
Lady Herrii ck inquired, standing up to leave
them.

"The bishop  I recollect his best because
it was the shortest, and Sir Thomas Britton
told me to thank him for it."

*' And what did you say, Hughie ? But
I will leave you to tell your mother by your
two selves what you said, and Sir John shall
tell the story to me as we drive home to
Danesmore."

Hucrhie made rather what he called " a
mull" of his report, but his mother understood

that he had come back to her quit for
good and all of that unhappy self-consciousness
which had made him so shy of encountering
strangers. He had determined to hold up
his head, and look the world in the face
again.

If I am as good a man all round as my

father was " he besan. His mother laid

her hand softly on his to stop him.

Hughie, it is not your father who must
be your standard and example talk to Mr.
Orme  but you know delUr,' she said, with
lips that quivered, and tearful eyes pleading
with him to have patience. '' Let me speak
to you a little now, and then let us try to have
done with those things that aie so painful
for us both to remember, and think only of
those that deserve all love and honour. You
know how your father planned to repair one
wrong he did, but I think he foresaw on the

night he died that much of his planning would
come to nothing. He wished John to have
Acklam  but John will have none of Acklam."

I am glad of that, mother ; I like Acklam
myself' Hughie interrupted, offering a kiss.
If Captain Meade took New Place, and
John took Acklam, Kitty Consett and I would
have to roost in a tree when we are married,
unless you would give us lodgings at the
Manor House." His spirits had got up again,
and he wanted an instant truce with tears
and troubles.

Mrs. Denys' faint attempt at remonstrance
ended in a gentle lauofh. Hughie's change

o 5 C> fc>

of mood was great consolation. '' I was not
aware that Kitty Consett and you were engaged,"
she said. " When you are married
you shall have lodgings at the Manor House ;
or  as it will be a long day first  I may have
vacated it before."

I hope not that, mother," Hughie responded
with exceeding gravity " If you are
not there, the bells shall not ring at my
wedding, I vow ! " and the kiss that his
mother had restrained until this moment was
administered with an emphasis that forbade
the return of the clouds.

CHAPTER XLIX.

A DECISION.

' Be strong to-day : ' but, Lord, tomorrow 
What of tomorrow, Lord ? "

Christina Rossetti.

Young Denys had referred to Captain Meade's
taking New Place as to an event not accomplished
yet.

Captain Meade was a slack wooer as it
seemed, but, in truth, he had received small
encouragement to press his suit. Marie-Irene
was not accessible under her brother Johns
roof, and he had not seen her since that
brief interview at the Manor House shortly
after Christmas. The young lady came down
to Cote again in August, when her masters

also left town, but she brought her occupations
with her, and was not idly inclined for
trifling. No frame could have been less propitious
than that in which Captain Meade
saw her next  absorbed in study, wearing a
look of absence and restraint, not interested
in any affairs that he had to tell her. She
possessed in a marked degree that trait of
her father by which he had enforced upon
his nearest and dearest a silent respect for his
reserves ; and when Captain Meade intimated
to Mrs. Denys a wish that his way could be
paved for him, she said that, indeed, she
could not speak to the girl.

Mrs. Denys believed, but was not sure,
that John had done so ; for in moments of
rest Marie Irene had an air of soft, pensive
regret that found no expression in words. The
first anniversary of Mr. Denys' death was
spent by both in seclusion, and no step had

been taken then either towards fulfilling or
rescinding his promise of New Place to
Captain Meade. Mr. Quorn waited for instructions,
and received none, but that he must
continue to wait. In October Marie Irene was
to return to John's house In London, and the
sentiment was general,' that she could not be
allowed to return without some understanding
for the future. Captain Meade sought to
persuade his mother to come to Cote ; and
failing that, he asked that Marie-Irene might
be invited to Updeane. And this was contrived
without formality. Mrs. Denys took
her to Beaumlnster for the purpose of revisiting
her friends at the convent, and another
day they drove over the hills to Updeane.

Mrs. Meade received the young lady with
a blush on her faded cheek. She had heard
of her beauty and grace, but had never pictured
to herself the perfect beauty and sweet

grace she saw. The moment was nervous for
her, but evidently there was no disquietude
in the girl's mind. Mrs. Denys felt on the
instant that she knew everything, and that
her line of behaviour had been pre-arranged.
Marie-Irene blushed too, and passing an old
piano that stood in the spacious low hall open,
just touched the keys  a trick she had whenever
she came near a musical instrument 
and said it was well placed for sound.

That remark was the text of the conversation
that followed  music at home and abroad,
music In the convent chapel, with illustrations
and singing.

'' You will sing for my mother ? " Captain
Meade whispered, and then sighed. Marie-irene
consented with alacrity  It made the

time Q-Q,

o

Mrs. Denys sat with Mrs. Meade side by
side on a stiff sofa at the farther end of the

dim room. They were almost strangers, and
found not much to say. Presently a servant
brought coffee, and after that Captain Meade
proposed to show the visitors the garden,
and a certain fine point of view. It resulted
in Marie-Irene accompanying him alone. In
the course of their saunter they had what
served for an explanation. Captain Meade
saw so little ground of hope that he spoke
from a faint heart, and Marie-Irene had
scarcely to speak at all to quell him finally.

To Mrs. Denys, when inquired of afterwards,
she said : "He does not care enough
for me  I do not care enough for him. John
thought it right to warn me last Christmas,
and I have been on my guard since. There
was a time, a year ago, when I could easily
have fancied myself in love, but that is over,
and papa's scheme for restoring Navestock
to the family who were robbed of it by his

wicked ancestors does not depend on my yea
or nay to Captain Meade'*

No dear, but is it over  in very truth 
that time when you could easily have fancied
yourself in love ? " Mrs. Denys said, tenderly
adjuring her ; for there was a changeful colour
on the girl's face, and a shining in her eyes
that betrayed, perhaps, a deeper feeling.

Marie Irene shook away a few tears, laughing,
and employing some of those pretty
gestures that seem to make light of serious
incidents. ' Things may pass, and we maybe
a little sorry, and yet not wish them to
stay," she said. " I never expect to see a
nobler gentleman than Captain Meade, and
hit for this a7idfor that which all the world
knows, I think I might have loved him. It
would need a very strong love between us to
bear the strain, and as there is not the strong
love, we have said good-bye and parted friends.

I shall have a life of my own amongst artists,
who will not ask whence I come, but what I
am, and what I can do. Oh, I shall be happy.
I have no fear but I shall be happy."

Indeed, dear, I hope you will."

This was in the window of the old inn overlooking
Beauminster Close where they were
to remain that niofht. Marie - Irene turned
aside, and lifted her face to the sky. Mrs.
Denys saw that her mouth trembled, and her
tears were brimming over again.

*' It is permitted you to be a little sorry,
dear. It is a long while since you first
saw Captain Meade, and you became well
acquainted last summer," she said very
gently.

'' Yes. Last summer was delightful altogether
till it came to its sad end. The sun
never shone after that day for ever so many
days. But it returned at length, and I was

pleased to see it. When one is young, sunshine
seems most natural."

I trust you will have a great share of it,
dear."

Do you remember how you wrote to mein
the convent of what was happening to
Captain Meade away in India ? We used to
talk about that battle where he was wounded,
and that skirmishing retreat in which he won
his Cross of Valour. Their names were in the
map. Oh, he was quite our hero ; and that is
what he is  a hero. Probably he will rejoin
the army. That will be an eclipse for his
poor mother, who blushed when she took my
hand. I know what that meant, and if I had
let my heart go, it would have been piteous."

To Mrs. Denys' perception it was piteous
even now, without the sacrifice of a lost heart.
It had never occurred to her before that
Marie Irene would take account of her birth

as a barrier against this marriage that her
father had desired. But she did, and sympathised
evidently with the view of it adverse
to herself.

Mrs. Denys ventured to speak again : *' If
you loved Captain Meade warmly and truly,
his mother would forget all else," she said.

Marie-Irene answered: ''No. Her son is
like a minor to her. I think he is like a minor
to me too  and it is not to a king you bring
a mean gift. Though I loved him with all my
heart and soul, it would be better that I should
go away weeping than that he should lead
me amongst honourable women as his wife,
ashamed of what I am. I could not bear
that, and keep goody

Mrs. Denys understood her, and was silent.
To be humble, and take the lower place, was
easy to this nature rich in talents, relying on
the perpetual springs of joy within itself She

looked behind her at what her own Hfe had
been  how established in pride, how besieged
with humiliations  and consented that Marie-irene
had decided well, though her decision
was the heaviest reproach of all to her father s
memory.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER L.

GRIEVING DOWN.

Shall there be rest from toil, be truce from sorrow,
Be living green upon the sward ? "

Christina Rossetti.

Mrs. Denys' grief sank into a more natural
key after the day of the consecration of the
new church. The wounds of her pride slowly
healed, and the numerous occupations that she
gave herself preserved her from further unwholesome
brooding over the past, the lost,
and the irretrievable. Her youthfulness, her
energy remained, her enjoyment of society revived.
The minor vexations of life resumed
their power to vex her again, which was a
healthy sign to her friends.

It had been decided between the late squire
and the rector that when the new church was
opened for Divine service the old church should
be disused, unless on summer Sundays in the
season when Cote was full of visitors and the
other overcrowded ; and this was carried out.
It had also been pretty generally understood
that when the rector got that canonry at Beauminster
which was expected to be vacant soon,
he would resign the living of Cote in favour of
Mr. Orme. But before the canonry was vacant,
Mr. Clarges had re-considered his position, and
when he was promoted to his new dignity he
did not find that the retention of his benefice
was incompatible with it. Cote was a very
pleasant place to live in, combining many advantages,
and the pastoral work was easy.
Also Mrs. Clarges was fond of her pretty old
house and garden, and did not wish to leave
the neighbourhood of her own family at Marshleas.

The rector stayed therefore, and Mr.
Orme stayed too, and everybody was well
pleased to keep them both, though it was foreseen
that the arrangement miQht not last
long which curtailed the independence of the
popular curate, who had been looking forward
to have the benefice for his own.

And it did not last long. Amongst the
Whitsuntide-holiday visitors to Cote was a
stranger who had much to do with honours
and benefices, and who, as he left the new
church on the Sunday evening, when Mr.
Orme had preached the sermon, said to a
friend, with a backward sign of the hand towards
the pulpit : " Front bench form that."
No doubt he made himself better acquainted
with the antecedents and characteristics of the
clergyman, the simplicity and vigour of whose
address had fired his admiration ; for within
a few months a London parish was given to

Mr. Orme, from which his predecessor had
been translated to a bishopric.

Mrs. Denys felt the removal of her own
friend and her son's friend as a personal loss
and trial, and, giving way to a momentary
petulance, hoped that Mr. Clarges would not
turn his church into a convalescent hospital
again, for his sick and weary brethren, to the
detriment of Cote  a form of charity at the
expense of his congregation, to which once he
had been prone. Cote was very sensible of
what it was losing, but it was firmly established
in reputation now, and did not visibly suffer
in the ensuing season, though the new curate
fell far short of the gentleman he followed.
And in London Mrs. Denys could enjoy, if
she pleased, the ministrations that were the
most useful to her ; for her house there,
which she had no intention of giving up, was
in Mr. Orme's parish.

This event was probably the beginning of
Mrs. Denys' living more in London and less
at Cote than formerly. Cote ran its course of
development rapidly after the beautiful new
church was finished. It elected a Local Board 
taken collectively, the nine men of most weight
and substance in the place ; and it elected a
School Board who firmly declined the succour
of ladies, whether in their counsels or their
schools, unless for the superintendence of
needle-work  a grievance from which Miss

o

Nancy Clarges never rallied, but to which
Mrs. Denys resigned herself as to one of
those inevitable things that she knew must
come. She was not above accepting the
humble duty that was left them, and went
pretty regularly once a week to the girls'
school of an afternoon, administering encouragement
and rebuke as they seemed to be
needed. Also (but under correction) she gave

assistance  turned down hems and tacked
seams.

We don't call It seaming now, ma'am ; we
say sewing' an intelligent little body kindly
informed her.

'' Oh, sewing'' Mrs. Denys whispered with
her sweet smile.

We don't put in the sleeve like that, ma'am ;
we do it this way,' the same child instructed
her again in the most friendly manner.

Miss Nancy Clarges, missing her occupation,
took a lesson from the younger lady, and condescended
to the lowest place  the infant
school  all that remained for her. It went to
her heart not to have leave to tell the little
children Bible-stories and teach them hymns,
but it could not be allowed. A one-handed
man on the board objected that it would bethe
small end of the wedge. Miss Nancy referred
to him afterwards as the one-eyed man

but that made no difference. She had the
knitting assigned to her when that useful art
was introduced by and by, but religious or
other lessons never any.

"It is what we call progress, Nancy, and
whether you like it or not, I am powerless to
hinder it. We must obey the law," said her
brother, and Miss Nancy was finally answered ;
but the  oxdi progress had for her subsequently
as bad a meaning as it had for Richard Blythe
on a memorable sad occasion which the rector
did not forget.

Prizes were abolished when the old-fashioned
committee was exchanged for the newfangled
board, and bobs and curtseys to your betters
went next. The shopkeepers raised their hats
now instead of touching the brim, and retired
tradesmen dubbed themselves gentlemen. The
ancients, Tories to the backbone, were dying
off, with other obsolete civilities ; and the

moderns, with laudable liberal enterprise,
founded gas-works  that beautiful invention
that was to put gas out hanging fire up in
London yet. The new church adopted the
gas at once, and the Local Board decreed by a
triumphant majority that the district should
be lighted in the more populous parts  the
lamps to be extinguished at ten o'clock. From
this it was but one step more to a water-cart
and a dust-cart. On the day that the water-cart
traversed the Green Square for the first
time Miss Nancy Clarges met it full in face, and
read painted distinctly thereon, Town Cart.

The village is Qone ! the dear old village
Is gone ! " she murmured aloud, standing still
on the edge of the pavement, and looking after
the cart with eyes dimmer than it was their
nature to be.

A numerous cortege of little active boys
followed in the wake of the cart, taking the

Utmost pains to get their feet wetted with the
novel rainfall. '' Of course, the boys will turn
it to mischief if they can," Miss Nancy testily
remarked ; but she did not dream of calling
them to order as it would have been once
her duty and delight to do.

'' A fire-engine, and we're complete," an
affable voice observed, and drew up to the
lady. It was the prosperous purveyor of the
staff of life to the million, who had issued from
his shop, in front of which she stood. '' You
are admiring the water-cart, ma'am  in my
humble opinion, if I may mention it, the water-cart
is an institution that Cote has been honos
enough without in warm and dusty weather.
The Local Board has done their booty in this
respect at last, and we must do otter booty, and
keep 'em up to the mark, until they pride
the town with a suitable engine in case of
fire."

** You do make a terrible smoke to be sure,
but I hope we shall have no fire breaking out,
Mr. Mealy," Miss Nancy replied with considerable
tartness. '' To have fire breaking out
would be the last straw added to our burdens ;
and if I were the Local Board, my next act
should be the precaution of making you burn
your own smoke."

Mr. Mealy retired into his shop.

Progressing at this pace, Cote made great
advances during another year, and no one
person or family seemed any longer indispensable
to its comfort, its well-doing, or its
popularity. Mrs, Denys stayed away the next
season, and she was not seriously missed, unless
by her circle of private friends. She would
not have held her receptions in the Dutch
garden had she remained at the Manor House,
beings still in mourning ; and after a few weeks

at the beginning of Hughie's holidays, to give
him the benefit of the sea-air, she took Phoebe
and went abroad with him, travelling through
France to Switzerland, which was to be the
play-ground of several of their connections
and family friends that autumn.

Mr. Orme had accepted holiday duty fora
month at a beautiful spot in the mountains
beyond Lucerne, to which resorted chiefly
English visitors who loved seclusion, and to
keep out of the main tide of tourists. Mrs.
Denys and Hughie directed their course
thither, and finding it charming and not ill
placed for excursions, remained there as long
as Mr. Orme remained  it had been so
arranged, indeed, before they went. Young
Denys had a very cordial affection for his
early instructor, and permitted him to exercise
a tutorial influence and authority over him
still. He was fifteen now, a great fellow,

growing more like his father every year,
and needing often a strong hand to curb
him, and guide him straight ; for he had the
same inborn notion that he was to rule and
not obey, to love and be submitted to, that
were such leading traits in Mr. Denys, and
his mother began to find him occasionally
difficult of control.

No one who knew Mrs. Denys intimately
but expected that collisions would occur between
them as Hugh Oliver grew up and
left boyhood behind him. She loved her son
with devotion, but was scarcely tolerant
enough of his independent humours. Huo-hie
loved his mother very fondly in return, but
he loved his own way a good deal too, and
was hard to convince that she mio-ht know
best when it was necessary that one or the
other should yield. Since the main responsibility
of his training had devolved upon her,

Mrs. Denys had shown a vein of the Spartan
mother, and would rather have seen him lying
dead before her than that he should have
outraged her code of honour. She wanted
him to be perfect with a perfectness far above
out of his reach, and used occasionally a
tone of severity or contempt when he made
light of his own fallings short, which was
a pity, for it rather overstep the mark of
prudence.

The people at Cote had begun to call the
young squire a regular chip of the old block.
He was true to his word, good or bad, stubborn
in prejudice, and frank in defiance, as
ever the old squire had been. His blue eyes
learned the same thunderous look in anger,
and his lips the same taciturn habit where
he had feelings to hold in reserve for another
day. Mr. Clarges was afraid that he would
or'iYQ his widowed mother trouble, but Mr.

Orme quelled her anxieties with the hopeful
assurance that strong characters, firmly and
kindly exercised in youth, though wilful and
turbulent and hard to manage, were yet found
to annual well, and to bear the rough usage
of the world more bravely than characters
of softer fibre. Mrs. Denys attached weight
to all Mr. Orme said, and sought her direction
and support from his lips often. He was
an excellent friend for her son, and for herself
an invaluable adviser.

Up here too. amongst the mountains he was
a good comrade for the boy, whose fine spirit
was also a refreshment to himself. Hughie was
over bold and venturesome, and thoroughly
appreciated an expedition spiced with just so
much of risk and difficulty as compelled him
to put forth all his strength and endurance in
surmounting them ; and the knowledge that he
was in Mr. Orme's company saved his mother

from those wearing distresses in his absence
that would otherwise have afflicted her. Mr.
Walter Daventry, who passed by this way on
his wedding-tour, found the arrangement admirable,
and so reported of it at Auldcaster on
his return to Ens-land  adding an intimation
that he foresaw a probability of it becoming a
permanent arrangement. Walter's bride was
Juliet, Mr. Orme's, youngest sister. Their
courtship had brought the two families into a
close and intimate friendship, and their marriage
was regarded with favour on all sides.

Looking backward from the high levels of
middle life, the past falls into perspectives that
were never thought of while the ground was
being" travelled over. Looking onward, there
seems still a long way to go. Mrs. Denys had
come to these high levels. The road behind
her was checkered, and more with shade than
sunshine, but the neutral haze of distance was

fast toning down both, and the joy and the
sorrow of it, the pity and the anger, were being
softened and fused together in emotionless
memory, as the flowery fields, the bare steeps,
the waving woods of the early hours are
blended in the purple dimness of the after-day.
The road in front was straight and even, but
lonely. And it need not be lonely. There was
a blessing in her face for some good man yet,
and there was one who ardently aspired to
possess It. No one had perhaps ever so thoroughly
learned, and appreciated Mrs. Denys*
distinction of character as Mr. Orme had done
during the seven years of his curacy at Cote.
Yet half her nature had never had its
development. On the side of patience, fortitude,
forbearance, tenderness, she was wxll-
nigh perfect, but her proud, fond devotion, her
high hopes, her enthusiasms, had gone unfed.
She practised no deceptions on herself here.

VOL. III. s

She felt the same desire to be and to do as
she had felt in her girlish day-dreams, but
the desire was purified of vain ambition, and
opportunity would never be wanting if she
were pleased to take this new departure in life
with Mr. Orme. She had a struo:o:le with herself,
but the moment she hesitated the result
was not doubtful. " For Hughie's sake," she
said. But it was for her own sake too, or
Mr. Orme could hardly have been satisfied.
Perhaps she wanted some plea in excuse of
the new spring of love in her heart.

Mr. Orme bore a strong likeness to Sir
Oliver Denys. He was as tall and spare as
the old merchant, and his countenance was
as fine both in feature and expression. He
had a likeness in disposition also  the same
Christian simplicity, and the same generous
breadth of view, with those points of difference
that would naturally arise from their

difference of training and vocation. He
possessed great powers of work, and that
organising faculty by which a busy man keeps
his work well in hand, and his mind free
from overmuch anxiety for its success. Both
before and since his removal to London he
had found in Mrs. Denys his most sympathising
and effectual helper, and during the last
year, through their constant association in
labours of love and charity, they had seemed
to grow almost necessary to each other. He
knew and was sure that she would be a sufficient
helpmeet for him, and she was not able
finally to refuse him her loving service.
When she returned to Cote in September, she
summoned the heads of her family to the
Manor House. The three years of her mourning
were ended, and the announcement that
she had to make to them was neither unexpected
nor unwelcome.

Mr. Orme was staying at the rectory, and
he dined at the Manor House on the evening
of Mr. and Mrs. Daventry's arrival. Afterwards,
when the elder people rested in Delia's
window, somewhat weary with their journey,
but enjoying the beautiful, serene prospect,
the others went down into the Dutch garden.
Years were beginning to tell on Mrs. Daventry,
and she presently closed her eyes. She was
roused by her husband saying in his dry
tone : '' Remarkable people women are." She
looked out, and saw coming up" the long turfed
walk in the midst of the Garden Delia leaning
on the arm of Mr. Orme. Hughie held her
fast by the other hand.

What does it mean ? " she said  but, of
course, the picture told its own story.

It meant that a few weeks later Mrs. Denys
of Cote ceased to be, and was changed by the
divine and receiving of another marriage-rites

into the wife of the Reverend Basil Orme,
rector of St. Mary-in-Bush, that great metropolitan
parish to which he had gone from the
little iron church at Cote.

CHAPTER LI.

CONSOLED.

Spring sang of heaven ; the summer flowers
Bade me gaze on, and did not fade ;
Even suns o'er autumn bowers
Heard my strong wish, and stayed."

J. H. Newman.

Since the last summer Cote Church rejoices ina
fine peal of bells. There are no such silvery,
sweet-toned bells in the peninsula as the bells
of Cote. Mr. Denys had left it in his will
that a certain sum of money should be laid by
every sear until his son's coming of age, when
the bells were to be cast, and hunof in the
tower. Beyond that his written instructions

did not go ; but Hugh Oliver had kept In
mind his father's promise that they should be
had In time to ring at his wedding, and not
before, and he contrived so that they were
rung first on that auspicious day.

The young squire married Kitty Consett.
It was a very early marriage on both sides.
They had just nine-and-thirty years between
them  seventeen of the years being Kitty's.
Some people called it foolishly premature, but
Hughie, borrowing a judicious phrase from
the old rector to pacify his mother with, said,
Each case must be taken on Its own merits ;"
and as he had nobody's consent to sue for
but Kitty's, the wedding was celebrated when,
where, and how he determined.

Kitty had grown up tall and straight asa
wand, and with a very winning, pleasant
countenance. She had not the imposing

beauty of Hughie's mother, but she had a
veracious loveliness, a bright wit, a singing
voice, and plenty of pluck on horseback  gifts
that her lover helped to cultivate for the lively
admiration he had of her and of them lone
before they were of age to marry. Kitty
had, moreover, an intelligent submissiveness
of temper very desirable in the wife of a mean
of peremptory, affectionate disposition, and
his mother gave him up to her with quiet
confidence.

Hughie had spent three years at Cambridge
after leaving Rugby, and in the long vacations
had taken hard runs in the way of travel asa
preparation for the soberer paces of life at
the Manor House. For it was there the
young squire set up his household gods, in
the midst of the people amongst whom he
was born, and who paid him a natural deference,

though Cote had long outgrown the
simple loyalty that governs the minds and
manners of a purely agricultural population.
He did something to deserve their regard.
He took heed that through no negligence or
narrowness of his was the town which had
begun so well over weighted with rates and
taxes in the later phases of its development.
By his father's timely concessions it had been
kept out of debt, and at the same time power
had been kept in the right hands. The Nczus-
boy died of inanition after eighteen months'
pining, and Canon Clarges was elected chairman
of the School Board  quite the proper
person, though rather perverse and dilatory
in business. However, he was dextrously
managed by seeming to give way to him.
Of course, difficulties and differences of
opinion crop up now and then. When the

lease dropped of that triangular price of ground
where Crispin's shop stood at the entering
into the town from Marshleas, the young
squire proposed that his father's plan of a
workman's club should be carried out, and was
met with a discouraging lukewarmness. When
a deputation waited upon him to state their
views, he heard them with courtesy and consideration,
and then answered that there the
land was, and the stone and the timber were
at their call whenever they could agree to
raise the building ; but as for a subsidy in
support of it, they must look for none from
him  they must cultivate independence, and
rely on their own efforts. They went away
grumbling, but the young squire did not know
that, and would not have been moved by
it had he known. Probably from the care
given to their housing in Cote, no urgent

need of the club is felt, for It is not founded
yet  clubs are for people with abundance of
leisure, and working people in Cote have not
that inconvenience. A drinking-fountain and
trough for cattle have been placed on the spot ;
the decayed structures have been cleared off
the ground, and trees planted, under the
shadow of which the old men smoke their
summer evening pipes. Mr. Midas tells his
young friend Denys that it is monstrous waste
of a splendid site, and his co-partners, the
great brewers at Rowborouoh, have attain
and again offered a tempting price for it, but
young Mr. Denys calmly says them nay, and
renders no reason. Once a cry was raised
against him as overbearing and harsh in refusing
to let a public-house be established in
that part of the town where the labouring
people chiefly lived ; and to quell it he built,

close on the outskirts, a plain stone house, with
a cricket-ground, bowling-green, and alley for
quoits attached. He furnished a large upper
room where newspapers could be seen, took out
a six-days' license in his own name, and put
in a manager, who being made aware of the
gentry with a weakness for strong drink, was
given to understand that they must be allowed
to keep sober for him, else he would not befit
for his place. If anybody wants to get
drunk at Cote, it has been so contrived that
he shall do it under difficulties, or not at all.

This has cut off at their source other beginnings
of crime. Petty peculation has almost
ceased since the temptation to get money to
drink anyhow has been taken away. The
old beer-shop asked no questions where the
garden-stuff was grown, where the eggs were
laid, where the chickens were hatched that

were brought to market at its bar. Lady
householders congratulate themselves now
that expensive seed potatoes come up according
to sample, and that giant marrow-pease
are no longer miraculously thinned out by the
birds. They are suffered to gather their own
fruit, and the very pigeons have lost the
migratory character for which once they were
notorious. The policeman gets no more
anonymous petitions to keep an eye on such
and such gardens and hen-roosts between
Saturday night and Sunday morning, with
an earnest request to give the thief a fright if
he comes, but by no means to put the owners
of the property to worse trouble by catching
him ; and for a Cote man to be brought up
before the Rowborough bench has become
quite a rare event.
Young Mr. Denvs calls himself a Conservative.

He is a Conservative of the most liberal
type  at the furthest remove of the party
from Mr. Midas, who regards himself as the
pillar of its strength in the peninsula, and is
regarded by his young neighbour as an insidious
element of its weakness everywhere.
Young Mr. Denys stands firm for Church and
Queen, for Law and Order, for Responsibility
and Subordination, but he stands firm too for
more of that Equality which Richard Blythe
went to seek in New Zealand. He plays with
the idea of every man of character having a
vote, and says that when that good time comes
there will be the best chance ever the world
has seen of government oettincr itself well
done, and in the interest of the whole nation ;
for as the great laborious mass of the people
have no private ends to serve beyond the
satisfaction of the day's wants, they are more

likely to follow righteousness for its own sake,
and to sacrifice self for the common weal, than
are the classes who fight each one for their
own hand and who can keep uppermost  with
incalculable waste of powder and shot  while
needful work waits, multitudes pine for scarcity
of bread, and the dry rot of popular distrust
creeps hither and thither amongst the timbers
of the house.

The young squire's mother takes a great
and growing pride in him, and Kitty gives him
leave to aspire. He has the staying power
that ultimately goes far, and, if he live, will
gratify their ambition to the full.

I see every year pass with regret," his
mother acknowledges. '' Every year gives
me more to do and to enjoy, my happiness
increases, every day counts for a day in my
experience. Three events I watch for  for

Guy Francis Meade to come to New Place ;
for Hucrhie to win a seat in the House of
Commons; and for the birth of an heir at
the Manor House."

For which three events there Is time
enough yet," says Hughie. " Let us take Hfe
slowly, and feel It as we go."

Nevertheless the gratification of one of his
mother s three wishes is almost in sloht. The
Sudbury constituents have just now fallen out
of love with their member who took Mr.
James Herrick's seat (chiefly on the ground
of his rash declaration that Christianity may
go forward on a powder-cart), and have invited
young Mr. Denys to be prepared to contest
the borough at the next General election.
Kitty has heartily consented, and takes Immense
interest in eliciting his natural sentiments,
and helping him to clear them Into

principles  political principles that will work.
So does his mother. So does Mr. Orme.
He is very young, but that is a good fault,
and his joyous manliness will find him in pluck
and spirit to help others like himself in putting
the drag on the party coach, when some headstrong
leader ores the bit within his teeth and
runs a-muck amongst popular enthusiasms and
across the ruts of popular prejudices, threatening
to upset it altogether.

