Chapter I.

but this is fixt
As are the roots of earth and base of all.
Man for the field, and woman for the hearth ;
Cv. Man for the sword, and for the needle she :

Man with the head, and woman with the heart :
Man to command, and woman to obey ;
* All else confusion.  Tejiyson.

*?

Dr. Eichard Calyerley Brooke, of 350,

J Harley Street, was driving home one fine May

\ evening, anglia all but reached his destination,

 when he received a considerable mental shock.

 He had been running his daily stage of duty

since seven o'clock that morning, and now,

worn out by this long strain on his clinical

sagacity, was lying back in his brougham, when

it stopped abruptly, checked by a little crowd

collected outside his own door. Perceiving

- VOL. I. B

where lie was, lie got out of Ms carriage with
medical celerity, rapped vigorously at the
knocker, and then, to beguile the time, turned
to see what was going on in the street. His
vantage-ground of fie or six steps of elevation
above the roadway enabled him to see an
Italian organ-grinder, who was at one moment
gesticulating wildly, and calling upon heaven,
earth, and all around to witness that he had a
right either to make music, or be paid to leave
off ; the next, playing a few frantic snatches of
the street melody of the day ; then stopping to
gesticulate once more, and again dashing at the
implement of music and whirling round the
handle to prove that he meant to maintain his
rights. But with whom was he disputing? 
for all the dingy little knot of bystanders looked
either stolidly indifferent, or merrily amused.
Whilst Dr. Brooke was asking himself this, and
watching the angry Italian, the dense crowd
broke asunder, and then the second party in
the dispute was made visible. This was an
energetic, brightened, and handsome little girl
of eight ; but that was not all, for she was Dr.
Eichard Brooke's own niece. He, after his

hard day's work, was coming home to rest and
quiet, and the steady pursuit of respectability of
appearance in his dismal brick house in this
cynosure of medical eyes, Harley Street, and he
was met by such a spectacle as this ! He had
only a few years ago gained the footing which
he was now striving hard to keep  for who
respects his doctor if he does not live in a good
neighbourhood, pay one gentleman to open his
door and another to drive that sine qua non his
trim little brougham?  and all these things
were difficult enough to keep, and the subtle
aroma of respectability was ready enough to flyaway
from him, without the assistance of friends
from within. Here was his own niece, who
was to him as his own daughter, alone in the
open street, standing amongst these ragamuffins,
bareheaded, her hair thrown back in her excitement,
and engaged in a warm contest with an
organ-grinder ! The child, finding that she
was no longer penned in by the crowd, dashed
up the steps to her uncle, who hastily glanced
round at the windows near to see if the magnates
of the street had witnessed this escapade,
and then huddled her into the house as quickly

B 2

as he could the very moment that the door was
opened. ' Ove, you naughty child ! ' cried he,
what is the meaning of this ? ' And as the
child did not speak quickly enough, he turned
to the man-servant and said, ' And you John, I
wonder you allow such things to be done ; and
your nurse, Olive, where is she ? '

Olive looked too much afraid to answer.
John spoke instead : ' I was out on an errand,
sir, but I have not been away five minutes ; and
nurse, sir, has gone to the London Library for
Mrs. Brooke, sir, for some books of re-florence.'

But Olive,' said Dr. Brooke, turning impatiently
from his man, ' I think you yourself,
even if alone, might know better than to misconduct
yourself so. What can have made
you do such a thing ? '

Olive, who was always a little beauty, but
prettier than ever now, with her flashing eyes
and bright colour, hung her head a moment,
then, seeing her uncle throw himself down in a
chair as if quite tired out with fatigue and
mortification, she crept up to his side, laid her
head on his shoulder, and said, ' I will tell you
all about it, uncle ; but please don't be angry

with me. I will never do it any more, so you
know you need not be angry unless you like.'

She quite understood the nature of a perfect
pardon, and her uncle saw that she did so, and
said, ' Well, I won't be angry. I see that you
will never do this again.'

Never. But was I really so very naughty
this time ? Nurse was out, so I was with aunt
upstairs, and she was writing, and thinking, and
working so hard, and just then all at once that
great nasty organ came and began to make its
music, and Aunt Selina got cross with it, and at
last she could not write at all. She tried ever
so hard to go on, but it was of no use ; she
could not get a single thought up. So she
threw down her pen and told me to go and
order some one to send that horrid machine
away, and to tell the man that if he did not
move on quickly he should go to prison for a
whole fortnight. But nurse was out, and
Betsey was getting baby to sleep and scolded
me for going near her, and John was out,
and cook said she was not fit to go to the front
door, and I couldn't find out where Agnes was,
and I knew poor aunt was getting worse and

worse all the time ; so I just ran to the door
myself, and opened it and peeped out, and
there was no one outside then but the organ-man,
and he did not look very cross ; so I went
to him, and told him quite quietly that I liked
his music myself, but that my aunt did not, and
so he must be so good as to go away at once,
for as long as he was there I was quite sure she
could not get one good thought up. I did not
say one word about putting him in prison 
that might have been enough to vex him 
but I never said it. ISFow, was I really
naughty ? '

Dr. Brooke kissed the anxious face which
was now pressed so very near to his, and said,
You should not have gone out, Olive ; but
you promise me never to do it again. What
did he say ? '

Oh, he got cross and noisy, and jumped
about again, and I tried to explain that he
could go somewhere else and play to persons
who liked his kind of music ; and then all at
once I found I was shut in by a crowd of rude
strangers, who would not let me get out, and
kept saying, "Go it, little un ! Go it ! " and
then you came.'

By-the-bye, Olive, how was it that I found
the house-door shut ? '

I shut it after me by mistake,' replied the
child ; ' and if you had not come, I should never
have got back until John, or some one belonging
to the house, missed me and came, for I
am not big enough to reach up to ring the
bell.'

Poor little darling ! ' he said, taking her in
his arms. ' You are a good little girl, after all.
Tell me what you have been doing all day.'

I did some lessons in the mornings with
Miss Dawson, and then '

Did you do them well ? '

Yes, she said so  all but the sums, but I
can't do sums well, they seem as if they cracked
me all over somehow ! Let me give them up.
Only, then I shall have no lessons. I don't call
the others lessons  I like them. After Miss
Dawson went away, nurse and I and Alick and
Lucy, we went out, but not for a real walk,
you know, for nurse went to pay the books and
buy things, and we never seemed to get out of
shops of some kind or other all the time we
were out, and then I had my damer, and after

that a good read, and then this bad thing happened.'


Never mind, Ohve, I forgive you,' said Dr.
Brooke, who could not bear to see her distressed
face. ' What did you read ? '

'I finished "The Mysteries of Adolph."
It is rather a ghosty, frightening book, isn't it,
uncle ? Now I want you to advise me whether
I had better read " St. Clair of the Isles,"
Fatherless Fanny," or " Humphrey Clinker."
They all sound nice ! '

'Good Heavens, child! What can your
aunt be about ? '

You may always guess that,' replied Olive,
mistaking him. 'She is writing  that's what
auntie is always doing.'

And leaving house and children to go to
ruin,' thought Dr. Brooke, while he put Olive
down and went to his wife's room upstairs.

It was a comfortable study, reclaimed from
the bedroom department of the house, with a
large writing-table in the middle of it, covered
with masses of blue scribbling paper, sheaves of
pens, piles of manuscript. In a comfortable
chair by this table sat Mrs. Brooke with hair

pushed back and pale face, looking, in fact, as
people are apt to look after a hard day of
writing. She had evidently been at it ever
since breakfast, and she had not yet changed
her morning dress, though dinner was nominally
due in ten minutes. She was a handsome
woman of thirty-eight or so, with a fine well-formed
face whose only fault was the important
part the forehead played in it. It was prominent
and large, and all the hair was drawn off
it, and Mrs. Brooke thought its size betokened
intellect of a gigantic order, though her husband
threw the whole weight of this professional
experience into the maintenance of the opinion
that the height of a forehead was no index to
the amount of brains of its possessor. Mrs.
Brooke was writing busily when he entered,
and only said, ' Well, dear Richard, it is you,
is it? If you have anything to say, I will
speak to you in five minutes.'

I want to talk now, Selina '

Not now  just wait one moment, or you will
spoil one of my heroine's best speeches. I'll
tell you about it. You remember the story ?
Well, her aunt, Mrs. JSTettleship, has just heard

that Mr. Clement Disney  jow remember that
he is my hero, don't you ? '

Tut, tut, tut, Sehna, do let them all rest
for one moment,' said Dr. Brooke; 'I must
have a few words with sou '

Can you not wait five minutes, or till the
evening? that's better  I never write in the
evening '

No, it must be now ! I '

That is always the way ! ' murmured Mrs.
Brooke; 'and then people wonder how it is
that, whilst women claim to be the equals of
men, they have never produced any geniuses of
the first rank, just as if women ever had any
chance of doing really good work ! How can
they produce good work ? From early morning
until late evening they have to give their
minds to household matters of the most trivial
and wearisome kind! No man would stand
such a life for a day; but women have to
endure it, and then, just as by hard thought
and clever contrivance they have conquered
one little half-hour for themselves and their
work, and are sitting down to it quite delighted,
in comes some servant with, " Oh, if you please,

mum, could I speak to you for one moment ? '*
or, worse still, their own husbands demand five
minutes' conversation ! And I know, Eichard
I am sure, it is something disagreeable that
you want to talk about, and that ruins one's
best thoughts so.'

My dear love,' said Dr. Brooke, ' I could
have said all I had to say in less time than you
have taken over that long speech ! '

I never was civilise, dear ! You know
that ]vir. Chatterley's reader, when he returned
my last novel to me, said that, though it was not
quite what they liked to publish, still, the style
was remarkably clear and pointed ; and the
reader for " Temple Bar " said the same thing.'

I wish to Heaven,' cried Dr. Brooke, ' you
would give up all this writing and go about
your housekeeping as other people do.'

As other people do ! Now, Eichard, isn't
that just the least bit hard? If I were like
other people, you might say that. But I did
hope that you thought I was a little different 
that I might do some good work some day.'

Good work ! Selina, you will drive me
wild. Surely you must see that your work

ought to be keeping your house in order and
looking after your children ? '

I do my very best with both house and
children, not because such work is congenial tome,
but because it is my duty ; but when all is
well set a-going, Eichard, surely I may have the
time to myself which other women spend in
visiting ? '

There was some force in that argument, but
then there must be some deficiency in Mrs.
Brooke's power of setting things well a-going.

You should not send your nurses on errands
when they ought to be attending to the children.
They ought all to have been in the park this
lovely afternoon  no wonder they look pale.'

So they ought,' replied Mrs. Brooke ; ' I
must speak about that. It is not my fault that
they were not, for they have my distinct orders
to go out every afternoon when it is not raining ;
and if Pritchard was out doing an errand for me,
Betsey was in, and she ought to have taken
them '

But you ought to go to your nursery and
see for yourself that your servants obey you.
You ought to '

Now, dear Eichard, you are talking just
like a man ! What comfort would you have if
I was always running here and there to see if
this or that servant was doing her duty ? Do
they any of them do their duty ? Is it likely
they should ? But they do something towards
it sometimes, if you only let them alone !
They will not stand being looked after ; they
would all go away in a moment if I followed
them about, as you seem to wish me to do.
Mothers who are constantly in the nursery
are always losing their nurses '

But they generally keep their children,'
said Dr. Brooke drily ; ' and your first duty is
to look after them.'

Eichard, I do look after them.'

'I found Olive alone in the street to-day
wrangling with an organ-grinder ! Do you call
that looking after your children ? Olive while
with us is just as much our child as the rest of
them. Is that respectable? I have a very hard
up-hill fight, and am likely to have it, too, for
some time to come ; but I do my work as well
as I can, and I think you ought to do yours.'

Now, Eichard,' said Mrs. Brooke, at last

laying down her pen, and looking at him as if
touched to the heart, ' for once, dear, you are
unjust. You could not have said a more unkind
thing to me than that, for you must know
that the only thing which keeps me slaving and
toiling day after day at my writing in this way,
is that I have such a strong wish to help you.
I don't do it a bit out of vanity, or desire to
shine ; it is all for you. I know that you have
a hard struggle, but if I could earn six or seven
hundred a year  and most novel-writers who
get on, earn far more than that  well, then,
that would surely be helping you in the very
best way I could.'

If I might only choose what kind of help
I should best like, it would be  well, looking
after your house. Of course, dear,' he continued,
for he was wretchedly uncomfortable at
the very thought of giving her pain, ' it is verj
good and kind of you to try to help me,
but '

Don't say but ; be patient with me for a
while. Mr. Chatterley would have taken my
last novel, I know, and have given me something
for it too, if only that horrible war had

not been going on. He said lie could not
publish anything that was not about the war,
that nobody would read anything else; and
somehow or other that is always the way with
my MSS. He always seems to like them, but
there is always something or other going on
which prevents his venturing to publish what I
send him. You see, imaginary convulsions of
society  which are the things I attempt to
depict  strike people as very tame in the midst
of great national upheavals :  such as this war
which is going on now,' she added, for her
husband was silent in wonder at her blindness
as to the true nature of Mr. Chatterley's polite
excuses. ' But I am all right now : this
present novel will be ready to print by the
time the war is over, and I am getting on so
well with it ! Sit down, Eichard dear, and let
me read you a capital bit I wrote this morning,
it is not long.'

May I ask if we are going to have any
dinner to-day, Selina? It is twenty minutes
past '

That is the worst of men,' said Mrs.
Brooke meditatively ; ' you can never take

them quite out of themselves. I don't believe
there is a man in all England capable of forgetting
his dinner hour, or that he has a stomach,
let one read what one will to him ! '

By George, no ! I should think not,' said
her husband heartily.

I know,' said Mrs. Brooke mournfully, ' I
know ; but never mind, dear ; it does not stop
my loving you.'

Well, I am going to my dinner,' said Dr.
Brooke, for he saw that he had no chance of
getting any talk with his wife while all her MSS.
were lying about.

After dinner was over. Dr. Brooke approached
the subject next his heart, and said in
the most direct manner, ' I wish to inform you,
Selina, that when I came home to dinner to-day,
your niece Olive, whom I look on as my own
child, was in the street battling with a disreputable
Italian organ-grinder.' He purposely exaggerated
slightly for the sake of inducing his
wife to lend her ears.

How odd of you to say, " whom I look on
as my daughter" ! Don't I look on her as my
daughter too ? And could anyone be more

anxious than I am to bring up that child well ?
I am far more careful about the management of
Olive than I should be if she were really my
own. You see, I know so well what stupid,
silly, fidgety people her poor dear father and
mother are ;  so particular about trifles and
appearances and that kind of nonsense ! And
she was out in the street, you say ? Well, all
I can say is, that she was a very naughty girl.'

And all the windows were crowded with
people looking on at the Brooke family disgracing
themselves, and thinking we must be the
queerest people in London ! Why, I would
not have had such a thing happen on any
account ! It is enough to ruin my practice ! '

Perhaps she had better go to school,' said
Mrs. Brooke thoughtfully.

You know my opinion of schools,' growled
the doctor.

Well, could she not go out in the carriage
with you sometimes ? ' asked the lady ; ' that
would do her good and keep her quiet.'

Do you remember my taking her out once,
and she wetted little bits of paper, and stuck

VOL. I. c

them all over the carriage windows while I was
with a patient ? '

I can't think what makes her so different
from other children,' murmured Mrs. Brooke.

Most people would say that it was because
she has no one to look after her.'

Eeally, Eichard, how you talk ! It is not
my fault that her parents live in India : I do
my very best to supply their place. Did I not
bring her here into my room to-day -just when
I was writing a critical bit too ? And I let her
sit reading in a corner by the window for a couple
of hours, until that unfortunate organ came.'

Eeadmg ! What was she reading ? ' cried
Dr. Brooke, who remembered another grievance.


Well, dear, I hardly know ; she was quiet,
and that is the main thing ; and as for books,
she likes best to choose them for herself

And she chose " The Mysteries of
TJdolpho " and " Humphrey Clinker " ! '

Dear me ! poor child, did she ? If she
could only read writing quickly, I am sure she
should read my manuscript.'

Selina, my dear, you are a fool ! You

really are, to talk in that way ; and unless you
mean to change very much, and devote yourself
henceforth to the children, I must at any rate
take Olive from you. I can't help your ruining
your own children, but I cannot let you
ruin Chesterfield's.'

Where would you send her ? ' inquired
Mrs. Brooke very calmly ; she knew that her
intellect was quite above suspicion, and was
therefore not in the least offended by her
husband calling her a fool.

'To my mother and sister. I have no
doubt they would take her ; but if you have
the heart of a woman, you won't let her go.'

I do love the child, I love her dearly, and
should hate to part with her.'

'Keep her at home, then, and look after
her.'

But one has to make great sacrifices for
art.'

Dr. Brooke's lip curled a little.

Well, give me a little time to think it over,'
said Mrs. Brooke, and a silence of about an
hour ensued. Then she said, ' If you think the
dear child would be happy at Austerfield with

your mother and sister, she had better go  not
for long, of course, but for six months or so,
until I get this novel, which I am busy without
of my hands  for really, Eichard, I should
not be happy if I gave it up. You see, I have
been buoying myself up so with the idea oi
coming to your room some morning and handing
you a cheque for a thousand pounds all
earned by my own work. Oh ! I should be so
proud that day ; and you know yourself that
many a woman earns quite as much as that just
by one book, so why should not I ? '

'Do as you think best,' said Dr. Brooke
rather roughly, for he did not at all want to
lose sight of the child. ' You shall have your
own way, but it seems to me that you are
turning your back upon a plain duty and pursuing
a shadow.'

I wonder whether he would change his
opinion at all if I quoted Plato, and he found
he was on my side,' thought Mrs. Brooke, who
for the last minute had been repeating to herself
a bit from Lysis which seemed to suit the
situation :  ' The education of children of great
men is often neglected ; indeed, if people are to

be great, they can only attend to their own
development.'

Judging by Dr. Brooke's next speech, he
would perhaps hardly have included his wife
under the category of great, for he began to
make an apparently irrelevant inquiry as to the
price that could be got at the paper works for a
ton of old writing-paper.

After a while Mrs. Brooke persuaded her
husband to listen to a long chapter fresh from
her pen that very day. It was partook a tissue of
troubles, each and all of which would have faded
away if any of the actors in the story could
have brought themselves to speak two words of
common sense  only, if they had done so, what
would have become of the poor lady's plot?
Dr. Brooke did not want her to write novels,
so he listened in patient weariness. Great was
his weariness, but great also were the recuperative
efforts of nature in his favour : very soon he
was fast asleep. His escape into dreamland was
never discovered, for just as Mrs. Brooke was
about to look up to see whether her husband's
face was illumined with interest they were both
alarmed by a succession of agonized shrieks

from the night nursery. They ran up in all
haste, and there they found Olive, who,
having used all the time which they had spent
in dining, in reading ' Melmoth the Wanderer '
by the light of the drawing-room fire, had
worked herself up into such a state of excitement
and terror that she refused to be left alone
even for a moment.

This decides me,' said Dr. Brooke, after
they had succeeded in pacifying her ; ' that
child shall go to Austerfield by the first train
on Monday morning. I'll take her there myself.
After all, my own children, poor things,
won't take much harm if they are neglected a
little longer, but Olive is just at the very age to
be ruined for life.'

And here we may as well inform the reader
that Olive was the eldest child of Sir Chesterfield
Brooke, a distinguished Indian officer, who
was now at his post as governor of a frontier
province, and continually occupied in repelling
petty insurrections and incursions. Olive had
never been in India, and could not remember
ever having seen her father. She had been left
in England as too delicate for the journey, and,

having thus missed the chance of spending the
early years of her life in that country, \Tas now
condemned to wait for a sight of her father and
mother until she grew old enough to bear the
Indian climate, or Sir Chesterfield resigned his
appointment and came home.

To Olive these Indian parents were vague
abstractions. The father and mother she knew
and loved Heed in Harley Street, and though
she counted off on her fingers the names of
sisters Amabel, Evelyn, Josephine, and Joanna,
who hive thousands and thousands of miles
away from me,' the mention of their names and
of the miles which parted her from them only
made her open wide her eyes  not her heart 
that was given to the unruly Alick and to the
Lucy and baby who were always crying in
Harley Street.

CHAPTEE II.

Nor did he g-ive them teachers, but they were allowed to
wander at their own free will in a sort of hope that they would
light on virtue of their own accord.  Potatoes.

When Monday came, Dr. Brooke found that it
was quite impossible for him to leave town, so
little Ohve was sent down to Austerfield with a
servant, and he was obliged to content himself
with embodying in a long letter all the prohibitions
and ordinances which he had devised
for the child's governance. This letter was addressed
to his elder sister, Miss Lettice Brooke,
who lived with her infirm father and mother in
this far-away Yorkshire village, and was the
person most likely to have the management of
his little niece. He wished Olive to learn a
few simple lessons, to read a few childish books
which, from his recollection of the bookshelves
of his youth, he had no difficulty in

specifying,  and to run about the Grange
gardens and fields in happy healthful freedom.
All the novel-reading which had been so
hurtful was henceforth to be rigorously denied
her. Xo late hours were to be permitted, her
life was to be entirely simple, her mind was to
be stimulated only as a child's mind should be,
by Nature's daily show of wonders ; and if
hereafter she never did anything beyond trying
to understand these, and in some degree succeeded.
Dr. Brooke asked for no other learning
for her and believed that her own father also
would feel that she had enough. He did not
hesitate to confide to his sister his reasons for
removing Olive from her aunt's care, and ashe
knew Miss Lettice's easy-going indulgent
character, he made a great point of telling her
how seriously harmful Olive's course of reading
had been both to her mind and body. He
declared that he really believed that they
should have lost the child, if she had been
allowed to go on in the same way much longer,
and threw himself on Miss Lettice's mercy, and
relied on her love and affection, and extorted a
promise from her besides, to watch over her

charge most carefully, and see that she read no
such books for the future. Miss Lettice replied
at once, and even went beyond the doctor in
her condemnation of all that he condemned.
Her dear brother might rely on her constant
watchfulness and care. Novels were most
improper and dangerous things for children 
indeed, as for that matter, for grown-up people
too. There was no one who would not bethe
better for letting them alone, and her dear
brother might trust her to obey him in this as
in everything else.

Dr. Brooke did trust her, and Olive went
and arrived at her grandfather's house late in
the evening, when the air was golden with
sunset. She saw the pretty old Grange which
was now to be her home, with eyes full of
amazement. It looked strange after the dingy
magnificence of London. It was a handsome
old house in its way ; and had belonged to the
Brooke family for centuries, but it was low
and unlike anything she had ever seen before.
There were only two tiers of rooms in dl, and
the windows were rather small and half-hidden
by Jargonelle pear-trees ; the purply-grey roof

was diversified by splendid patches of yellow
stone-crop and house-leek, and here and there
a tuft of wall-flowers, or crimson snapdragons.
It was a dignified-looking abode, and the rooms
were large and picturesque ; but Olive wondered
at its want of height, and felt sure that
there was some mistake about it, for the stairs
were so short that you were at the top of the
house before you seemed to have begun to go
up. She was met by a pretty, pleasant old
lady who told her that she was her Aunt
Lettice, and taken into a room where her
grandfather and grandmother were sitting.
They looked much older than anyone whom
Olive had ever seen before, but the long
journey had dulled her powers of astonishment,
and she made no opposition to the general
dictum that bed was by far the best place for
her. She was conducted to the spare room,
and, lost in depths of downy feathers, soon
folded eyes and limbs to rest.

When she awoke next morning, the birds
were singing in the pear-tree which was trained
round her window, the lately formed brownish-red
pears looked pertly full of promise; the

sun was shining on the branching pines which
composed the pattern of the chintz of which
the hangings of her bed were made  pines on
which brie-grey paroquet were perched at
measured intervals, some in grave, ruminating
discontent, some with inquisitive necks stretched
to watch other birds like themselves fluttering
down to settle on the branch by their side.
Such movement was there amongst these  such
life, such expectation, and all for an object
which to the end of time would be unattainable
! ' Stupid birds ! ' thought Olive in her
own childish language, ' how I wish you would
get flown! Making such a fuss, and never
getting one bit nearer the place you want to goto
! I don't like you, I like the quiet settled
ones best.' And then she remembered that
restful and restless birds had alike been fixed
and woven into the web where their part was
to be played, and began to wonder if she, too,
were so made that she could but do her work
in life according to the instincts with which she
had been born, and use the measure of power
which had from the beginning been meted out
to her. They called her naughty at home in

Harley Street, and little Alick her cousin, good,
because she sometimes got out of bed and stole
to an upstairs window to see the sun rise, and
caught cold, while Ahck refused to go when
she summoned him, and quietly stayed in bed.

But,' thought she, ' I want to see sunrises so
much that when the sky looks pink I seem as
if I must go where I can see more of it, and
Alick is different ; he cares nothing about
them.'

Olive's attempts to do her part towards
solving the problems of ' fixed fate, free will,
foreknowledge absolute,' might have ended in
giving her a bad headache if she had not suddenly
caught sight of a large glass doomed bookcase
which nearly filled the entire side of the
room. Large as it was, it was crowded from
base to summit with books. Joy filled her
heart, and she was out of bed in a moment to
read their names. Their names ! It was a
novel-reader's paradise ! There was scarcely a
single book in the whole collection which she
did not long to devour. Their mere titles were
a feast in themselves : ' Celebes in Search of a
Wife ; ' ' The Romance of the Forest ; ' ' Man-front,

the One-handed Monk' (these, alas! on
a very high shelf) ; ' The Pirate ; ' ' Zeleuco ; '
The Need Ever,' and ' The Water Witch.'
Swift as thought, she got a chair, opened the
glass door, took out an old calf-bound volume
with an attractive name, and began to enjoy
the pictures in it. One represented an affrighted
maiden overhearing a villain of most
repulsive appearance make a confession of some
past act of wickedness to an equally unpleasant-looking
companion. The eyes of the latter
were starting from his head at the magnitude
of the crime which had just been revealed to
him. Thus ran the fragment of the novel which
had been extracted to explain the illustration :
'Ela listened and heard the monk exclaim,
Thou indeed didst steal the son, but this, this
is the daring hand which administered the fatal
draught to the father." ' ' Ah ! ' sighed Ohve,
but her sigh was but a long-drawn-out expression
of content  a feeding by anticipation on
the sweets of that volume. Her next impulse
was to begin at once to read, but even at the
tender age of eight and a half, the little maiden
had attained to the degree of experience which

prompted the exclamation, ' If they have got
so far as to tell that, this must be the third
volume.' So she began to look for the first.

Suddenly she felt an arm put round her and
a kiss on her cheek, and heard a kind voice
say, ' But, Olive, you ought not to be standing
about in your night-dress ; and none of these
are suitable books for you.'

Aren't they. Aunt Lettice ? ' said Olive,
with a face full of distress. ' Oh, dear ! What
a pity ! '

When Miss Lettice saw the change which
had come over the child's face, her soft heart
was touched in a moment. ' Well,' said she,
perhaps I might find one or two amongst
them which you may read. Don't be so
anxious, dear child ; I'll look and tell you.
Did your uncle say anything to you about what
books you were to read ? '

He said I was not to read anything without
asking your permission, and, Aunt Lettice, I
am very sorry, but I am afraid I forgot. I was
just going to read this when you came in '

But you will keep your promise, Olive ? '
inquired Miss Lettice appealingly.

Of course I will. Even if I hadn't made
a promise, I wouldn't do anything to vex uncle
if I could help it  no, not for the world ! '
And Olive stoutly replaced the book which had
tempted her so much. Still, she could not take
her eyes off it. Suddenly she cried eagerly,
But, Aunt Lettice, you will tell me, won't you,
what other things Ela heard those two men say
to each other while she was listening, and what
she did about it when she got away ? It is not
very safe for her to be so near them as she is.
I should not like it. I suppose she is not
afraid, and that that is what makes her fit to
be a heroine.' And Olive sighed over her own
shortcomings.

It is all a pack of les ! ' cried Miss Lettice
with great decision. ' Olive, I could not tell
you the story of that book if I tried for ever.
I would if I could, but I always forget what I
read, an hour after I have shut the book.'
This was an assertion which Miss Lettice was
in the habit of making. It served her as an
excuse for never opening any book which was
not a novel. * It was so disrespectful,' she said,

'to forget a good book so quickly, that she
really did not like to begin to read one.'

Have you quite forgotten everything about
it?' inquired Olive. 'Is there nothing you can
remember to tell me ? '

']ot one word. I am very sorry, little
Ohve, but the whole thing has gone out of my
mind as completely as if it had never been in
it. Perhaps,' added she, seeing the child's
disconsolate face, ' perhaps I should not be
doing so very wrong to let you read this one
book  just this one. It is very short, and has
pictures, and it is my fault for forgetting the
story. I should have told it to you if I could
have remembered it, and there is not much
difference between telling it to you and letting
you read it yourself ; so I think you may as well
keep it out. But mind,' she continued, half
repenting this concession, ' you must not tease
me to let you read one of the other books, for I
have given a promise to your uncle, and, you
see, a promise is such a very sacred thing.'

I had better not read this, perhaps,' said
Olive, hesitatingly.

Oh yes, you may read that. I have told

VOL. I. D

you soli may, and it was to be as I thought
best : but no more  not one more. You will
find me very strict about these things, Olive.
I told your uncle I should be so.'

Oh,' cried Ove in some triumph, ' but I
have read ever so many of the books in this
book-case already ! I have read " The Mysteries
of Adolph," on this first shelf; and
The Children of the Abbey," and " St. Clair
of the Isles," and " The Cottage on the Cuff,"
on the one above ; and " Melmoth," and
Remain," and " The Castle of Otranto," and
I dare say ever so many more.'

Dear me ! Well, I should not have
advised your being allowed to read those books
I certainly should not ; but if you have
read them once you may read them again, for
no doubt you have got all the harm out of
them you can get ; so when you want a book,
Olive, you may just take one of those which
you have read already. But no new ones,
mind you, not one ! You are not to ask me.
And, oh dear, if you are not standing all this
time with your poor bare little feet, and nothing
on but your lightness, and that is a thing I

am so very particular about ! Jump down, and
I'll send Hannah at once. She will help you to
dress, and then come quickly down. There is
some nice new milk, warm from the cow, waiting
for you.'

I wonder what that is,' was Olive's thought,
but she was ashamed to show her ignorance by
asking.

'You may run about as you like,' said
Aunt Lettice after breakfast, ' but your uncle
does not wish you to be allowed to play
with the village children ; if you see any of
them about, take no notice of them. You
won't see them unless you go to some of the
gates.'

Olive, however, wanted no playfellows this
first day. She had kingdoms, empires, new
worlds to discover and explore, and hour after
hour passed in entrancing bewilderment. She
did not give much thought to the human occupants
of the Grange and its gardens. She
roamed here and there, and at first it was
pleasure enough to pry into the recesses ot
folded leaves or cup-like flowers where the sun
had not yet pierced its way, and to force the

D 2

lurking dew-drops to run to seek their fellows ;
and merrily she laughed when, after a little
helpless tumbling about on leaf, or petal, two
drops as round as the O of Giotto bumped
against each other, and slowly and heavily
rolled into one. When she was tired of that,
she divided the garden into the four quarters of
the world. Lie peopled them with imaginary
inhabitants of all kinds, distributing these with
as much regard to her own Httle theory of probability
as was possible. An apple orchard
was the abode of giants who walked about with
heads high above the fruit-trees, and, when the
fruit was ripe and rosy, would be able to look
down on the best and brightest of the clusters
at the very 'top, and take what they liked for
themselves. Olive was sure that the beauteous
Saba, wife to St. George of England, was
chained to one tree far in the depths of the
orchard, and, unless rescue came, would be
devoured. Sometimes as the child passed this
stronghold of gianthood, she timidly listened
for the clash of knightly arms ; more usually,
she ran quickly by, lest she herself should be
captured. A dense thicket of gooseberry-bushes

was the hiding-place of serpents with
endless lengths of coil ; a bed of tender lilies of
the valley sheltered fairies who climbed up the
flower-stalks from bell to bell as by a delicately
constructed ladder, and peered forth on the
world from the highest of these tiny perfumed
white tents, ready to take flight the moment
any child of man appeared. After an hour or
two, the whole garden was densely peopled by
heroes and heroines of ' The Seven Champions
of Christendom,' or of Madame D'Aulnoy's
Tales, and Olive went reverently up and down,
half overborne by the sense of the presence of
these supernatural beings, in whose existence
she all but implicitly believed. She was conscious
of a certain feeling of fear as well as of
reverence, and ran by the lair of the deadly
snakes, trembled if a leaf rustled, and half expected
to see the giants towering above the
apple-trees, or an enormous hand stretched
forth from amongst the lichened branches. She
knew ' The Castle of Otranto ' by heart, and
was well prepared for the sight of nodding
plumes at any unwonted elevation from the
earth. She was familiar with corridors and

subterranean passages, and with antique lamps,
whose slender flame expired just as the beautiful
heroine or dauntless hero had become
aware that he was no longer alone in the dark
and vaulted chamber. Olive had always had a
burning desire to find a concealed treasure, but
never could feel that any such luck was likely
to befall her in London, which was much too
crowded for anyone to be able to take up a
paving-stone in order to hide stores of gold or
jewels. Stow, in the country, every broad
stone which she saw laid down in field or
garden seemed to her the possible covering of a
treasure of dazzling rubies or diamonds, all of
which would be hers by right of discovery if
she could but find them ; or there was the hope,
the scarcely hoped-for hope, that she might
live to find, to see, and have for her own,
handfuls, nay, basketfuls, of the jewels with the
lovely names which it was her joy to read
about in the Bible.

CHAPTEE III.

Truly I would the gods had made thee poetical.

As You Like It.

To mark the structure of a plant or tree,
And all fair things of earth how fair they he.

Charles Lamb.

After a fortnight had passed, Ohve, who had
more than once looked wistfully at various
little brown-faced village children, began to
pine for a companion  some one to help her to
play. She confided this wish to Aunt Lettice,
and asked if she might play with Willie Morrison,
the butcher's nephew. He was a little
London boy on a visit to his north-country
relations in the village. She had seen him pass
several times, and he was a very nice gentlemanlike
boy, who wore a blue jacket, and
not ' brown ribbed things Hke the village boys.'

Fustian, you mean,' said Miss Lettice.

'Well, fustian; but Willie Morrison does

not wear it, and he looks so nice. I am sure
uncle would not mind my playing with such a
good-looking little boy as that.'

Well, if you think so,' replied Aunt Lettice,
I am sure I don't object either. He is a good
boy, I know, and it is dull for you ; but you
must promise me never to ask me to let you
play with any of the other village children, and
you must not bring Willie into the house or
garden : your grandfather would not like that ;
and no other children, Olive, not one single
one.'

Oh no ; I did speak to two little girls one
day  I on one side of the gate and they on
the other ; so you don't call that wrong, do
you. Auntie ? And I just told them about the
snakes and giants in our garden, and one ran
away crying so loud you could hear her all the
way to the village, and the other said I was " a
bad girl and told lies ! " Weren't they stupid ?
But I like boys best, so never mind.'

Having obtained her aunt's consent, Olive
waited at the gate until Willie passed. She
knew that he went down the lane every day
about half-past eleven. She did not wait long.

He was a frank-looking, bright-eyed boy of her
own age, with a quiet thoughtful way of looking
about him, and a pale London-bleached
face. He was kicking stones along the road as
any other young gentleman might have been
doing, and stopping every now and then to look
at anything which interested him.

Don't go past the gate,' cried Olive. ' Stay
and play with me.'

Girls can't piny,' he replied doubtfully, but
with something very Hke a pleased sniile
breaking over his whole face.

Oh, but I can,' said Olive ; ' besides, I can
tell you stories.'

With plenty of killing in them ? '

Yes, some with killing in them. But do
you like stories of that kind best ? '

Yes, I like killing ones best, and murders
out of the newspapers.'

I am afraid he won't do,' thought Olive,
he is vulgar-minded ; ' then she said, ' I can
tell you some kilHng stories out of books. I
don't like them in newspapers, they put such
ugly bits in them, but I can tell you some
which you will care far more for, out of

Macaulay's Lays, and the Scottish Minstrelsy.
But, where were you going ? '

To my aunt's, as far off as you can see
along the lane. I go there every day with a
message.'

Then you can't stay and play ? '

Ask if you may go with me.'

Well, dear,' said Miss Lettice, in answer to
this request, ' if you feel that you could enjoy
a walk, it is a sign that it would do you good
to go. I think you may, for it is not far ; but
remember, in a general way I like you best in
the fields close by, or in the garden.'

After this the children were inseparable.
Willie was actually nearly two years older than
Olive, but she was in reality older than he.
She soon began to be warmly attached to the
boy, yet she despised him intellectually, thought
his taste in literature contemptible, his aim in life
woefully low, his feeling for poetry nil ; but in
spite of all, after a while she loved him passionately.
This love was the fruit of her novel-reading.
She had cultivated it from a feeling
that it was time she had a real lover of her own
and that there was no one else in Austerfield

to play the part. Willie was the only boy who
was gentlemanlike, and wore a blue jacket ;
all the others were clods, who were cruel, and
tortured birds and butterflies, and did not even
look at flowers, but spent all their holiday time
in cutting sticks or throwing stones. Willie
liked flowers without much prompting from
Ohve, never hurt animals, and was ready to
devote himself from early morning till late
evening to her. This was the only proof of
love he gave her, but it was unfailing. Olive,
who  thanks to her aunt's general benevolence
to children, and slippery manipulation of promises
 had since she came to Austerfield read
romances enough to turn a grown-up head, and
who nightly sobbed as if her heart would
break over the sorrows of Emily and Agincourt
in 'The Mysteries of Adolph,' or of
Amanda in ' The Children of the Abbey,'  who
was used to the kind of novel in which hero
and heroine go through every probation, every
misery and injustice which cruel parents, guardians,
or traitorous uncles, and stony-hearted
relatives can inflict, and at last come out of all,
triumphant in love and happiness  would have

liked some such stormy experience herself.
She wanted Willie to protest his adoration.
She m return would confess her love ; all
would go smoothly for a few weeks, during
which they would keep their passion to themselves
and grow nearer to each other daily ;
then trouble would come, and for ten or
fifteen years they would neither of them know
a happy moment, but bear and suffer unheard-of
miseries and privations  perhaps be locked
up and fed on bread and water  all which
things they would go through with smiling
faces and absolutely unshaken constancy. She
pictured to herself the bliss of having for months
with no other solace than a secretly conveyed
letter, and foresaw the day when at length
their Hyrcanian- tiger-hearted relatives would
say that it was altogether in vain to try to part
such faithful lovers  that they were made for
each other, and that it was not in the power of
mortal men to turn aside the decrees of fate.
That is what she desired ; what she had was
this : every morning when it was possible to go
out, Willie waited for her under a hie-tree ina
very pretty field half-way between the

Grange and the village. Then they walked in
the fields around, making up large bunches of
flowers which they loved far too well ever to
throw away when tired of carrying them.
They learnt to know so well where each flower
grew that they could have found it in the dark,
and to them the budding and blossoming of the
fluttering bird-cherry, or the warlike and
golden barberry, or the sight of the first long
spike of lilac campanula, was an event waited
and watched for for weeks. As the year advanced,
they brought home baskets of mushrooms,
leaves filled with wild strawberries, or
cans of blackberries, and when tired they flung
themselves down by the side of a tiny beck
they were very fond of, and watched the trout
lying with their heads up-stream, looking like
semi-transparent golden-brown blots in the
clear water, or the minnows flashing by in the
sunshine. After two springs and summers together
at Austerfield they attained a new sense
with regard to birds, and found nest after nest
with the instinct and precision of savages ; and
when winter came, that too brought its own
joys. Children as they were, they never had a

quarrel. Willie seemed passively happy and
perfectly content to give up the direction of
himself and of his days to Olive. Ohve was
happy, but she wanted something more. She
longed to see Willie throw himself at her feet,
and to hear him say, ' Ohve, I love you with
the whole strength of a passionate nature, and
without your love I die.' She wondered if he
did love her. He appeared to do so, for he
never seemed to care to be with anyone but
herself. Sometimes the village boys met them,
and called Willie a milk-sop, a lass-lad ; but
they very soon fled if he ran after them.

There was only one thing with respect to
which Ohve and Willie were not in perfect
harmony, and that was poetry. Perhaps Miss
Olive, unconsciously to herself, affected to admire
things which at her age she was unable
really to care for, from deference to names
which she had been taught to respect. She repeated
' Lycidas ' to Willie (her uncle had made
her learn it). Willie was bored, and said it
was very fine, and there was a good deal of it,
and that he did not care for poetry except,
perhaps, ' John Gilpin.' Olive thought ' John

Gilpin ' silly, and had a great dislike to poetry
which only aimed at amusing her. Then she
repeated one of Madame D'Aulnoy's fairy tales,
and behold ! all Willie's sympathies went with
the dragons, and when they carried off wondrously
beautiful princesses in mad flight through
the air, his only wish was to know at what rate
of speed they could fly. He was bored by
Undine,' which alternately delighted and terrified
Ohve ; and until it occurred to her to tell
him ghost stories, she could not touch him on
the side of wonder at all.

She spent hours and days in planning their
future life together, which was to be spent
underground. Somewhere  the spot was unknown
to her as yet  but somewhere, she was
sure, half hidden by briars and brambles,
they would find an entrance to a range of
long-forgotten subterranean caverns which
they would make their own of  hide from
the knowledge of everyone, furnish stealthily,
and then inhabit. There was endless food
for thought and conversation in furnishing
and arranging these. The carpets were to be
skins of wild beasts. The rooms were to be

lighted with coloured lamps. There was to bea
drawing-room, dining-room, and library.
The library was to contain every book in the
world. Willie was base enough to think of
food ; but food was promoted to the level of
poetry when they remembered that no one
must know of their existence, and that they
must steal away by night to distant towns to
bring back all they wanted, or Willie must take
his gun and shoot in one night a provision
which would last them for six months. They
resolved to begin at once to save up their
pocket-money to buy stores of candles, matches,
gunpowder, and clothing.

I mean,' said Olive, ' to wear crimson
velvet in the cave, for it will look so pretty
against the dark-brown rocky walls ; and you
too, Willie, had better wear some colour of the
same kind ; but we must have quite ugly
common things when we go out, so that we
may pass unnoticed as mere peasants. Oh !
Willie, how delightful it will be ! '

But we haven't found our cavern yet,'
observed Willie, who was prosaic to the very
backbone, ' and perhaps we never shall.'

'We are certain to find one,' cried Olive.
The idea has come to us so strongly that you
may be sure that it has not been given to us
for nothing.'

'It certainly would be awfully jolly to
be always going about by night in the dark ! '
said he.

'And so delightful to think no one knew
where we were ! ' added Olive.

In the autumn after their first meeting,
Willie had to return home and go back to
school, but he was to spend his Christmas
holidays at Austerfield. To Olive it seemed
life would stand still from the moment when
he left her, and she earnestly hoped that he
would be equally miserable ; but Willie was
wanting as regarded all due expression of
his grief, if indeed he felt any pain worthy of
the name. To him the knowledge that he was
coming back at Christmas seemed a sufficient
reason for bearing up in the interval, and when
he spoke of his return to London he dwelt principally
on the fact that he hated learning
lessons.

VOL. I. E

But, Willie, won't you miss me, and our
walks and talks?'

Yes, of comes ; but mind, by that time it
would be getting very cold for us to sit out.'

Olive would have sat down contentedly
on the highest peak of frosty Caucasus, if she
could but have had Willie by her side, and a
tear rose to her eyes at his speech ; but she
did not choose to let him see it, and hiding her
face for the moment, she said, 'We will be
happy at Christmas.'

Yes, that's a very jolly time. I like being
here then, grandmother does make such awfully
good Yule cakes ! Does your aunt have them
made with sultana raisins or the others ? '

For a minute Olive perfectly hated him ;
to show her indifference she said, ' Oh, no doubt
she has them made good somehow, but I daresay
I shall have to go to my own home at
Christmas, so I shall neither see you nor the
cakes.'

Oh, but if you are not here, Olive, 1 don't
want to come,' exclaimed Willie, who had so
completely surrendered the conduct of his existence
to Olive that he could not conceive life

in Austerfield without her. She was content
with that, and just on the point of saying,
Then you do love me, Willie, in spite of the
bad speeches you make to me ? ' but she was shy,
and sat in silence wondering how she was to
get through the weeks which must pass before
Christmas came.

When she bade Willie good-bye, she was
pleased to see that he looked very much
troubled about leaving, though shy of showing
it. She slipped into his hand her own best-bound
favourite book, in which with a very
bad pen she had blotted in his name. ' It is
for you, Willie,' she said, with quivering voice,
and you must not forget me.'

I am not likely to forget you, Ohve  it is
only eleven weeks '

Olive shivered ; that speech was one which
might be interpreted in two ways and both
disagreeable.

'Well, good-bye, Olive, don't you forget
me, or my rabbits either. You will see that
they feed them, if your aunt will let you go ;
an mind, it is very bad to give them wet
cabbage.'

B 2



 iLUNOlS

We ought to kiss each other when we say-goodbye,
Willie,' said Olive, for he was going
after shaking hands with her. So, awkwardly
enough, he gave her a limp, shapeless kind of
kiss and went, while Ohve, who had struggled
to bear up until now, broke out into the most
passionate agony of grief that she had ever
known. To hide her tear-stained face she
retreated to the hay-loft. There she stayed for
hours uttering bitter complaints against destiny
for separating her from Willie, against Wile
for being so contemptibly small-natured as to
part with no sign of pain from one who had
been all in all to him for six whole months.
She would eat no dinner, read no book, listen
to no comfort, and when night came she went
to bed thinking that every day of the next
eleven weeks must be spent in equal wretchedness
 how could it be otherwise when Willie
was away ? She did fret next day, but in the
evening she condescended to join the family
circle, and there she heard something which
comforted her and restored her love to the
dignity of a faith. Mr. Begbie, the clergyman
of the parish, was talking to her Aunt Lettice

about the difference in the nature of girls and
boys. 'Girls-he said, 'are Httle women almost
from the beginning ; boys, dull, stupid, blundering
creatures, who till the age of seventeen or
eighteen can neither express nor know, the
feelings which govern them.'

That's it ! ' thought Olive. ' Willie loves
me so deep in his heart that he can't go burrowing
down to see how much, but he loves me
and I love him.' She doubted his love no
longer, but woefully missed his company, and
hung about looking so dull and listless, that
even her poor old grandmother, aged eighty-one,
saw that she was ill, and therefore out of
love with life and its enjoyments. With a
gentle thought of the blessedness of rest in the
tranquil grassy churchyard which she dimly
saw lying before her own bedroom windows, she
said, ' I think they'll be putting both of us in
the ground together, little Olive, before so very
long a time is over, if you don't get stronger
soon.' Olive looked up in surprise and alarm
at her grandmother, whose face was wrinkled
and puckered, and whose lips were violet with
age, then her eyes turned to the black and

white headstones which marked the graves in
the churchyard. She tried in-an awe-struck
manner to think what it would feel like to belying
there by her grandmother's side for years
and years instead of running about on the soft
green grass above. The idea was horrible!
I don't want to die,' exclaimed the child ; ' I
don't feel as if I could die.'

Then her grandmother put her cold hand
on hers, and Olive recoiled as if Death itself
had touched her. The movement was unperceived
by the old lady, who said, ' If God took
you now, Ohve, it would be a merciful act.
You would be spared a long weary life of
fighting with sin and sorrow.'

Didn't you like your life when it was nice,
grandmother ? I know it is not very nice for
you now.'

Yes, I liked it far too much ! It is very
wicked to set your affections on this life.'

But,' said Ohve in desperation, ' God gave
you your life ; did He think He was giving you
a bad thing when He gave it to you ? Did
He want you to be miserable ? '

The child began to cry, for a chill had fallen

on her ; and in dread of hearing more, she
crept out of her grandmother's room into the
garden ; but there, too, death and decay were
busy. The trees were bare of leaves, the beds
of flowers, Willie was away, and she felt desolate
and hopeless.

Nay,' cried Miss Lettice, when, an hour
afterwards, she went out and saw Olive's pale
face and her red eyes, ' but this is the road to
no place ; you are fairly killing yourself for
want of something sensible to do ! You shall
go to school tomorrow morning, as sure as my
name is Lettice Brooke.'

Her name was Lettice Brooke, and next
morning Olive went to the village school, with
a special recommendation to the master who
kept it, to place her at some distance from the
village children. She was, therefore, put at the
end of the bench just below his own desk, so
that he might conveniently check all approach
to inappropriate friendships by keeping her
under his own eyes.

She was so completely under this eyes that
when her spirits returned, he found he saw a
great deal more than he had bargained for :

caricatures of himself which did not tend to
feed his vanity ; portraits of nearly everyone
in the school ; verses, chiefly sentimental  any
art and every art received its share of attention
but the right one. Sums still ' cracked ' Olive,
but after a very short time there was so
marked an improvement in that respect that
the master was astonished. It was all due to
Aunt Lettice, who kept the child so well supplied
with pocket-money that she was able to
buy tofiy to bribe the big boys to do her arithmetic
for her, which carried her triumphantly
over the four simple rules, and landed her with
distinguished honour in the rule of three.

At Christmas, just as Olive expected to
see Willie again, she was summoned back to
London. She wrote a short note of misery,
spelt misery, to him, and then went home, and
was remarkably happy there. Her rosy cheeks
delighted her uncle, and her sympathy with
novel writing charmed her aunt.

We will keep that dear child at home with
us, now that we have got her,' said Dr. Brooke ;
the house is twice as delightful to me when it
has her bright little face in it.'

Oh yes, do let us keep her,' said Mrs.
Brooke ; ' she is no trouble whatever. I
believe she sat for two whole hours writing
this morning, without disturbing me once.'

Letters, or what, poor little thing ? '

She was writing what she called her novel.
She took a few sheets of letter-paper, and cut
them into squares, and then scribbled away as
contentedly as possible. I can't tell you in the
least what it was all about  her style may be
clear, but I am sure her writing is not.'

Selina, you are determined to ruin that
child ! I won't allow this writing  it is the
worst thing possible.'

It will get her insensibly into the habit of
composition.'

I'll not allow it ! I don't want her to compose.
I should look on it as the greatest misfortune
which could befall her if she took to anything
of the kind.' The doctor meant what he
said, and thought that his house with yet another
author in it would be simply unbearable.

'Well, dear,' replied Mrs. Brooke quite
composedly, ' be easy ; if I write well, it is very
unlikely that Olive will have the talent also.'

CHAPTEE IV.

Only my love's away,

I'd as lief the blue were gi'ey.

R. Browning.

It was not long before Olive was sent back to
Austerfield. ' After all, she gets health there,'
thought Dr. Brooke with a sigh, when he parted
from her. ' It is astonishing how soon she lost
her pretty colour after she came back here.'
Willie's father, a clerk in a City bank, with a
small salary and a delicate wife, was also glad
enough to consign his boy to the care of a
devoted grandmother, and know that, while he
himself was living between the dingy bank in
Threadneedle Street and the small and depressing
house in Han way Town, his boy was
having the~run of woods and fields, and enjoying
pure country air. Mr. Morrison, of Grove
Place, Hanway Town, and Dr. Brooke, of 350

Harley Street, both sent their children away to
the little Yorkshire village with much the same
thought in their minds. ' If even the child
does run a little wild, it is a fine thing for it to
be in the country ; in a year's time or so it
must come home and set to work to learn something
in real earnest; But the grandparents of
both Olive and Willie thought it was quite time
for them to begin to do that at once, and made
them go every morning to the village school
from nine till twelve. The rest of the day was,
however, their own, and dearly they enjoyed it.
They were as inseparable as ever, the only
difference being that their talk was a little less
childish, and their walks were a little longer.
Aunt Lettice, never at any time much of a
check on Olive, was now almost entirely engrossed
by nursing her father and mother, and
the servants also, for the same reason, were not
so free as they used to be ; so the children
spent every afternoon and evening together.
They passed many an hour in the churchyard,
which stretched along side by side with the
Grange garden. Olive was fond of showing
her skill in deciphering black-letter inscriptions

and telling pathetic stories about everyone with
a pretty name who lay buried there. She
credited the plain John Browns and Jane Smiths
with lives as dull as their names. Each child
passed the black tombstones with a shudder of
horror faintly tempered by pity ; they thought
good people were buried under white tombstones
and the wicked under black ones, and
the black ones were in Austerfield churchyard
sadly too frequent.

Near the church porch was the old stone
coffin of one of the Neville family. In this the
children used to sit making wreaths of flowers,
or resting from their rambles, and sometimes,
in grim play, one of them lay down to try to
fit a little living head into the round hole which
had once held the dead one. ' If you and I had
really been buried in a coffin like this, Willie,
hundreds of years ago ' began Olive.

 We should not be sitting here now,*
interrupted Wile the prosaic.

No, no, I don't mean that ; we should
have a great flat stone lid above us, with our
pictures carved on it, both of us lying side by
side, and we should have a lap-dog to put our

feet on, and a cushion for our heads, and you
would have a sword by your side to show that
you were a knight, and I should have a pair of
scissors.'

But how do you know I should have been
a knight ? ' asked Willie.

Oh, of course you would  I should not
have known you if not ! ' And then she remembered,
what had been a great source of pleasure
to her for some time, that, as it was, Willie was
very much below her in station, and that when
the time came to tell her family that they loved
each other and meant to marry, there would bea
terrible outburst of wrath. No doubt such a
marriage would be immeasurably repugnant to
Doctor and Mrs. Brooke, as well as to her
father and mother, and they would all be sure
to act in such a severe way as to afford Olive a
most enviable opportunity of showing the stuff
of which she was made ; and she would show
it ! No one who ever yet lived in this world
should eclipse her in constancy, patience,
and fidelity. Her novel-reading had taught
her to regard all parents and guardians as cruel
and worldly tyrants ; and though she dearly

loved her own uncle and aunt, and had never
received from them anything but kindness, she
had a firm and hopeful reliance on all this
changing when once suitors began to present
themselves, and marriage to be talked of.

Miss Lettice, out of false kindness, had
really done her little niece somewhat of an
injury, for now she lived in a perfectly unreal
world. The good okl lady undoubtedly spoke
much truth when she asserted that she forgot
every book an hour after she had read it, and
this must be accepted as her excuse for sanctioning
a strangely miscellaneous course of
reading. However, if Olive's novel-reading
made her very foolish and romantic, it did her
no other harm, for, doubtful as some of these
productions were, she saw no evil in them.
She was silent for some time, but her mind was
busy with the great question  show would her
father receive WiUie ? Suddenly a thought
struck her, and her only wonder was that it
had never occurred to her before. Suppose
Willie was not what he seemed? In almost
all the novels she had ever read, heroes who
began life as peasants of a superior make turned

out to be the eldest sons of dukes in the third
volume. How odd it would be if that were the
case with him, and the inferiority of rank were
on her side ! But while she was still struggling
with this great idea, he said, ' I can't play with
you this afternoon, Olive ; I am going to Bishop-ton
with my uncle on the pony. It will be
awfully jolly,' said he, seeing a look of dismay in
her face, and perhaps wanting to talk down any
objections which she was going to raise. ' I
am to have uncle's pony, and he is going to
ride Mr. Thompson's mare, and he has promised
to gallop whenever I like ; and if he has only
got time enough after he has done all his
business at market, he means to take me to seethe
wild beasts' show. I wish you could go,
Olive ; it would be twice as nice if you were
there too ! '

Olive's heart swelled.

There's lions and tigers and an elephant,
and a man puts his head in the hon's mouth,
and I mean to have a ride on the elephant.'

And you are going to leave me alone, to
be away a whole afternoon, for the sake of a
few ions and tigers ! '

'Well, but really, Olive, such beasts as
that '

Oh, nonsense about beasts ! If you go,
you can't love me. If you go like that, Willie,
I'll love you no more and never seek flowers
with you again.'

But for once ? When it would be such
pleasure ? '

Would it be such pleasure ? ' asked Olive,
impetuously. ' Well, go then, and come back
and tell me all about the beasts tomorrow. I
forgot it would be such a pleasure, I wish I had
not been so cross about it.'

'You see, there's the ride,' said Willie,
apologetically ; ' I've never had a long ride on
that pony, and uncle wants me with him.'

It would be very nice, and you must go,'
said Olive ; after which speech, she made no more
objections, but nature was tinged with gloom,
and all true dependence on Willie's love was
gone. She was put in the scale with wild
beasts and found wanting ! She had all along
been nothing else but a self-deceiving fool !
They parted as usual at mid day. She dined
with her family, feeling no interest in mashed

potatoes browned before the fire, no joy in
apricot tarts decked with white kernels. Listlessly
she hung about the house, until at last,
for fear her grandmother should see her and set
her down to a long seam, because she looked
sorely in want of something to do to keep her
hands from idleness,' she went out to make in
sad loneliness the accustomed round of the
home-fields, before she went into the Camp
field, or the Well-springs, or little Scrogs
Wood, or Willows Plump ; for every field,
every group of trees, had its name, and each
had its daily visit. The first field was one next
the Grange, and her grandfather's two cows
were pastured in it. On a happier day Olive,
when she saw Beauty lying at rest, would have
stolen on to her back, and, if she kept her
place during the tumultuous struggle of the cow
to its feet, have tried how long she could maintain
her seat on that sharp bony ridge of Mrs.
Beauty's backbone. But to-day the sleek red
cow lay unmolested ; Olive had no heart to
play, no desire for flowers either; she could
find pleasure in nothing, for Willie was not
there ! Besides, it was almost certain that she

VOL. I. F

would have to revise and remodel the whole
scheme of her future Hfe, for what Willie had
done proved him to be one to whom it would
be hardly prudent to give the love of her Hfe.

The next field was a corn-field. All the
corn was cut and bound, and set up in stooks ;
and when she saw that this was done, two big
tears ran down her cheeks, for she and Willie
had settled in their own minds, when last they
saw it, that it probably would be cut by this
day, and they had resolved to come and, if it
were so, to make themselves a house with some
of the sheaves, and spend the afternoon therein.
She-half crossed the field  then she could bear
her loneliness no longer, and threw herself down
with her back to the sheaves and had a good
cry. A rusting disturbed her. She saw
another group of sheaves at a little distance
from her move, and from behind them crept
Willie. He came to her looking bright, rosy,
and affectionate, and putting his arm round
her he kissed her, and said, ' Don't cry, Oily ;
you see I did not go, after all.'

This was but the second kiss the children
had ever exchanged. Olive would often have

kissed Willie, but, as it never seemed to occur
to him to kiss her, she was too shy.

Did you stay at home on my account ? '
she asked, divided between smiles and tears.

He nodded and said, ' I told uncle I didn't
want to go.'

Oh, Willie, and you did want ! ' she said
this very regretfully. ' But never inind, I do
love you for it ! ' She threw her arms round
his neck, and in her turn kissed him, and then
she sat still holding his hand in hers. ' Willie,
we do love each other,' said she.

Willie looked at her with troubled affection ;
he was very fond of her, but he had a great
dislike to showing any signs of it. ' If I didn't
love you, Olive,' said he with one glance at his
recent sacrifice,  I should not be here now.'

I know ; but you do love me, Willie ? '

Of course I do ; you see, Ave have been so
much together.'

Better than anybody in the Avorld ? ' asked
Olive.

He gave a calm, well-throughout assent,
and then added, ' None of my sisters are half so
nice as you.'

And better than any of the girls you play
with in London ? '

Oh, I never play with any girls in London !
I don't like any of those I know, well enough
to play with them. They are stupid things,
with nothing sensible to say for themselves ;
not like you, Olive ! '

Olive smiled ; she had a certain pride in
her intellect ; she was well aware that on that
side she was stronger than Willie.

When I am with you,' said Willie, ' I
always find that it is quite time for me to go
home when I think I've just come out ; that's
because we are happy, I suppose ; that makes
the time seem so short.'

Willie, I do love you ! ' cried the passionate
little Olive. ' To-day when I came out,
and you were not here, I didn't know what todo
 I had nothing to do or to care for ; I was
just wishing myself dead ! We must always
love each other just as much as we do now.'

Yes,' said Willie.

'And, Willie, when we grow up, you are
not to mind my father and mother, or my uncle
and aunt, being cruel to us ; and if they say

disdainful things to you, you must bear them
as a way of showing your love for me. You
must keep constant to me through everything,
and, Willie, 1 will do exactly the same ; I
won't be unkind to them, or disobedient to
them, but I will always say, " You need not try
to get me to give up my Willie, for I never
can. I have always loved him, and I always
shall ! " '

Yes ; that's what we will both say,' exclaimed
Wile, who either really felt as she did,
or liked the martial sound of the words.

And when they say to you, as I am afraid
they will some day, Willie  for you see, unfortunately,
my relations arc of a superior rank to
yours  " We cannot suffer our daughter to
make this missy hance  your station, young sir,
is an insupportable bar to any union with our
house," you are to lay your hand on your heart
and flash defiance with your lustrous brown
eyes and say, " Measure not my rank by my
birth, but have regard to my achievements." '

I say, Olive ! But you are going it ! 
Achievements ! what do you mean ? '

Nay, that's what they say in all the books

that I read ; and besides, you must have some
achievements  do something very grand and
distinguished, I mean ; you must be a soldier,
or a sailor, or win a battle all by yourself, or
write a book that the whole world will go mad
about  I don't want to fix exactly what you
are to do, Willie, but you must do something.
Never mind about it now,' said she kindly,
seeing that her small companion was beginning
to sink under the weight of responsibility she
was imposing on him ; ' we will settle about
that another day ; all we need care about now
is loving each other. It is so good of you to
stay at home with me  I do so love you for it,
Willie ; I wish I could take you to some nice
place to make up for your not going to see the
wild beasts. Let us go to Ay ton Bank Farm.'

Ayton Bank Farm ! The children had
never yet been so far together. They rose
alertly, and, with arms entwined round each
other's necks, set out for their walk. More
than one flower as yet unseen by them was
discovered as they passed through the fields,
more than one hare roused from a rest so profound
that it seemed to the children that their

feet had just missed the pain of trampling on
the brown, sleepy creature, when it started off.
They pictured to themselves their delight in
catching a hare, when once they had taken up
their abode in their cave. They tried to enjoy
the taste of shoes, and sought for embryo
kernels in milky, unripe nuts, and looked with
love in each other's eyes all the way as they went.
At last they reached the Ayton Bank Farm
house-door, and then they remembered that no
one had sent them there, and that they had no
errand.

Never mind,' said Willie, ' we must go in
now that we have come to the very door. Let
us give my grandmother's respects ; she said
the other day that she had a very great respect
for the people who live here, so we will say
that, and that we have just called to see how
they were.'

Let us say nothing,' said Olive, ' but that
you are Mrs. Morrison's grandchild, and that I
am Mr. and Mrs. Brooke's, and that we are out
together for a walk ; and then if she says,
'* Naughty children, go away home with you ! "
well, then we will go home, and that won't

be so bad as it sounds, for we shall have
to do it before long anyhow, whatever she
says.'

But the potent names of the grandfathers
and grandmothers produced a kindly welcome.
And you're sweethearts, then, I reckon ? ' said
the farmer's wife as a benevolent joke. ' Well,
come in and have some milk and cake.'

Ove glanced proudly at Willie, when she
heard the word sweetheart used ; she was not
going to disown him ; he hung his head, and
looked a little shamefaced. They stayed tea,
and watched a girdle-cake being made for
them, and played all kinds of games ; and then,
in what seemed to them the late and dangerous
night, though it was but the dusky fading away
of a sweet autumn evening, they, much kissed
and entreated to come again, stole home
together, with arms confidentially locked round
each other's necks, and hearts more open to
each other than ever they had been before.

The darkness and the proof of love Willie
had that afternoon given to her, made Olive
unfold to him the very innermost thoughts of
her mind. All her hidden desires were revealed

: she told him how she longed to distinguish
herself; how she would like to write
anonymously some book the fame of which
would ring far and wide, or she alone would
man a life-boat, and go through a wild and
deadly storm of wind and wave to bring back
some shipwrecked crew, and when the Queen
wished to have her always in the palace by her
side as a reward for her bravery, and afterwards,
perhaps, to marry her to some great
duke about the court, then Olive would shyly
say, ' Not so, dear lady, in my youth I already
met him whom I must love all my life ; none
other may win my hand.' Then the Queen
would take her into her own bedroom and shut
the door and question her who it was, and she
would name Willie ; and then (if Willie had, as
she knew would be the case, done deeds of
such note that his name was known as soon as
spoken), the Queen would say, 'What, our
trusty William Morrison ? Nay, but we are well
pleased ! ' ' and then you know, Willie,' added
Olive, ' our fathers and mothers would be so
ashamed of ever having been cross to us about
loving each other, and we  no, we should be so

happy, that we should care nothing about the
past, and the bad things they had done to us,
but freely forgive them and be just as fond of
them as ever.'

And then ? ' asked Willie.

Oh, then we should get married, of course,'
replied Olive simply.

'And perhaps be just as cross with our
children when they wanted to marry against
our wishes as ever our fathers and mothers had
been with us,' said WiUie.

I am sure we should not ! ' exclaimed
Olive indignantly. ' Mine should marry just
exactly as they liked  except chimney-sweeps.
I do not think I ever could give one of my
beautiful girls to a sweep.'

'Or to a man who went about mending tin
pans,' added Willie.

Oh, no ; but don't think of such trades as
those  we need not.'

Your uncle keeps a carriage, Olive, and is
quite a grand gentleman. My father told me
that, and that he lived in the aristocratic part
of the metropolis.'

If your father said that, Willie, he speaks

very nicely, quite as well as my uncle. My
uncle doesn't use words a bit longer than that ;
but never mind about the carriage, or where we
live : all I care for is this, that we love each
other, and that I promise, I swear to you,
never to love anyone else but you, but to wait
patiently in my own home till you come for me
and say that you are ready to take me away to
your house.'

I wonder what people do to get houses,'
said Willie somewhat sadly. ' How did your
uncle get his ? '

'By working very hard, and getting to
know how to cure people who are ill.'

I think I'll do that,' said Willie. ' How
does one begin ? '

You must know Latin, for one thing  it is
all done in Latin, I know : so please to attend
to your lessons. 1 think I'll ask my uncle
what you are to do for the rest, if there is more
to do, and then when I get to know I can tell
you.'

And then,' said Willie, ' after I have learnt
Latin, and got the house and carriage, if I
drove up for you one day, and if I was to find

then that you had changed your mind and
would not come ? '

This was a deadly reproach to Olive, and
her first impulse was anger, but she remembered
that serious things were at stake, and said,
Willie, you may trust me as you trust yourself
; I say I love you, and that I will wait for
you and marry you. You may believe me, I
cannot say it more solemnly than I do  I promise
you  there ! '

That's right,' said he, with no undue elation.


But, Willie  mind, after your last speech,
you quite deserve what 1 am going to say  if
you never come ? suppose that.'

Oh, I am quite sure to come trust me for
that.'

When I am really WiUie's wife,' thought
Olive, 'I must get him to use nicer words 
Trust me for that ! " He is not a bit like a
lover. Agincourt would have said something
that would have made one ready to cry because
it was so beautiful. Lord Cherry would have
called on heaven and earth, and all the golden
stars that stud the vault of heaven, to witness

his truth : and that kind of talk does sound
much better, and does make one believe much
more ; but never mind.'

Good-night, Willie,' said she, when they
came to the Grange gate. Somehow, it was a
tacit agreement between them that he never
went into the house.

Good-night  you are a nice little thing,'
said he ; ' I think Til give you a kiss.'

He gave her a kiss and ran away, and the
children did not meet again for years.

CHAPTEE V.

And I must work thro' months of toil,
And years of cultivation.  Tennyson .

Dr. Brooke came down like a wolf on the fold
and carried off Olive. Either he was dissatisfied
with what he saw of his sister's management,
or he was unhappy at home without the
child. The day after his return he made one
last appeal to his wife, and entreated her to
set apart a certain number of hours daily for
her writing, and to spend the remainder in
the ordinary duties of the British housewife.

Impossible ! ' she exclaimed ; ' it would be
absolutely impossible for me to limit myself in
any such way for the present, and I will tell
you why  the novel I am now busy with is
the very best bit of work I have ever done ; I
am certain it will be a success, but I must
finish it first.'

But couldn't you promise me never to
work at it except at stated times ? '

Of course I could. But I couldn't keep
my word. And if you, Eichard, had something
in hand which you were quite sure would make
your fortune if you could only get it done,
could you be kept from going on with it ?
That is to say, wouldn't you be very unhappy
if you were kept from it ? Think yourself.
My head is quite full of my last volume  all
the people in it are much more alive to me
than any of those about me. How could 1
shut them all out of my thoughts ? I know 1
could not. I intend to see a great deal of
Olive, of course, but I must sit in my own
quiet room as usual. Don't begrudge me the
time I spend there.'

Dr. Brooke sighed. ' If you could but
wait until the children want less looking
after '

And end by never doing anything ! '

'You would make us happy. After all,
what is the use of being distinguished ? I know
what you are, dear wife  is not that enough ? '

" Be content to be a private insignificant

person, known and loved only by God and
me ; " that's what you mean, I suppose,' said
Mrs. Brooke. ' That is a bit, as I dare say
you know, from one of John Wesley's letters to
his wife ; but would Wesley himself have been
contented to be obscure? I doubt it, I am
sure ; men are very odd about such things.
Besides, he quite justifies the desire for distinction
of which he complains in her, by saying in
the very next breath, " Of what importance is
your character to mankind? If you were
buried now, or if you had never lived, what
loss would it be ? " '

Dear Selina, you need not quote that
against me. I couldn't speak so unkindly and
unjustly to you : All I ask of you is '

To give up a thing I care so very much
about. Eichard, you have always been a dear
kind husband to me, but you would not be so
now, if you really made me do this. Remember,
I once did give up writing for several
years ! 

Whenever Mrs. Brooke used this plea, her
husband was reduced to silence. He found it
entirely unanswerable, and felt only that he

had been treating this poor wife with harsh and
selfish cruelty. It was quite true that for his
sake she had at one time given up writing for
some years. But to understand the feelings
awakened by this speech of hers, a portion of
his early history must be told. Dr. Brooke's
father was originally a very rich man, and
owner of the greater part of the parish in which
he lived. He had a large family of sons and
daughters, who had all been brought up to
believe that his large fortune would smooth
away all the difficulties which lie in the way
of those who have to gain their livelihood in
some professional career. Suddenly, however,
by the dishonesty of a co-trustee, he had lost
the greater part of his property. He had most
honourably satisfied every claim on him, but
only by sacrificing by far the larger part of his
fortune. This had crippled his resources at a
very unfortunate time, so far as Eichard, his
third son, was concerned. He had chosen the
medical profession, and was diligently studying
for it in London when the discovery was made.
At the first aspect of affairs it seemed as if
Eichard's medical studies would have to be

VOL. I. G

given up, and lie would be compelled to accepta
place in a government office, which was
offered him by a friend. He was boarding at
that time with a distant relation of his father's,
a widow lady of the name of Egerton, in
Gower Street. Mrs. Egerton had birth and
education, but so little of this world's other
wealth that she was not sorry to eke out her
modest income by humouring her Austerfield
cousin and taking his son into her house while
he attended college. Poor people, however,
are always those who have the most money at
their disposal when helping a friend in need is
in question ; and when Ei chard Brooke suddenly
found himself comparatively penniless,
Mrs. Egerton refused to let him leave her.
He must, she said, continue to be an inmate of
her household, and should pay her, if he could
not be happy without paying her, when he became
either a fashionable doctor or a great
man, or both combined. After a time, finding
that he was much worried about money matters,
she even volunteered to lend him a certain
sum for college fees, but it was years before
he knew how she obtained it. She had one

daughter, a quick-witted, handsome girl of
eighteen, much given to writing romantic verses
and sentimental stories for magazines. He had
seen some of these in MS., and sometimes even
beheld their beatific state of translation into
print, but he had a general impression that, asa
rifle, hard-hearted editors usually declined to
accept the fair Selina's contributions. Jealousy,
Mrs. Egerton hinted, was at the bottom of this.
Richard Brooke did not go so far ; he liked the
girl, and sometimes he liked the verses. All
at once, Selina laid pen and paper by, and
made a sort of friendly arrangement with some
acquaintances in Russell Square to go there
daily to teach their children. He faintly wondered
at the time why she gave up the comfort
and liberty of home-life to undertake this
daily drudgery when there was no need for it ;
but she looked cheerful and happy enough,
and not until he had so far made Ms way as to
be able to repay what he owed to Mrs. Egerton,
did he learn that all that Selina had done had
been for him, that he had had the use of every
penny of her salary, and whatever she had
ever made by verse or story writing besides,
G 2

and that all the money lent to him by the old
lady had been earned by the young one. Her
unselfish kindness at that time had secured to
him the means of entering on an honourable
career. To help him she had then freely sacrificed
every pleasure dear to youth, and all
her literary ambition ; was he, now that she
was his wife, to put impediments in the way
of her trying to recover lost ground and doing
the work she most fancied ? He had married
her then out of intense gratitude for her unselfish
love ; but did not marrying her imply a
wish to make her happy, and had she not a
claim on his indulgence now beyond that which
any other woman could have had ? He was
ashamed of having remonstrated so strongly
with her. ' Dear Selina, I do not forget your
kindness,' he said, as many a time he had said
before when his poor wife had reluctantly
hinted at this plea. ' Do not think I ever can
forget it. You did everything for me then, you
shall spend your time as you best Hke now. I
hope your present novel may be a very great
success ; I earnestly hope it. Work away at it,
and give it every chance. At the same time,

do  spare as miicli time as you can to poor
Olive ; but I am sure you will.'

Yes, of course I will ; I love you, clear,
and I love Olive and the children, and I do try
to make you comfortable and happy. As for
all your sisters and friends, and people of that
kind, I only try to do the best I can, and if
they put themselves in the way of finding that
insufficient, why, it's their fault and not mine.'

Dr. Brooke sat a minute or two looking at
the inherited of unfulfilled renown opposite
to him. There was ink on her fingers, and
much on her MS. She looked very tired and
worn, and was certainly working far too hard
for her health. He had just wished that her
novel might be a great success ; but when he
saw how pale she was, he began to think his
wish had not been a wise one, for her industry
would redouble with success.

While he was thus considering whether a
stern refusal from her publisher might not
prove a blessing in disguise, she was thinking
that no young man of her acquaintance would
make half so handsome a model for a hero asher
own very handsome husband. His features

were magnificent, strong, refined, and
regular, his complexion was dark and rich, his
hair black without one grey hair. He was six
feet high, and singularly well-made  She could
not imagine how she could have been so stupid
as not to sketch from him before !

Dr. Brooke rose rather wearily. This interview
had been very disappointing ; but for
the present, he felt that there could be no
further question of gainsaying his wife's desire.
He engaged a governess with a mind of the
purely practical order, who set Olive at once
to work, and saw that she did her lessons.
Months passed, during which she was so well
looked after that she had barely time for the
merest run into dreamland before she was recaptured,
She now and then ranted a great
deal, in very bad writing on very untidy scraps
of paper, or even viva voce when she dared,
about the dull routine of her daily work, the
soul cramping effect of learning uninteresting-tasks
by rote, the abject monotony of pacing
up and down the gravel-walks of Regent's
Park, the trammels of custom which even refused
her permission to kick a stupid pebble

about if lie liked, when she saw one lying
before her ; but she was forced to submit.
Miss Qiiilter, a long-waisted, straight-backed
lady, with a dazzling gold chain, which she
wore  not put round her neck, but caught
over a large machine-cut cameo, and hanging
down below in an ample festoon  Miss Quilter,
with her long thin nose, cold watery blue eyes,
and sandy curls pinned and held together on
each side of her face by hair pins  Miss Quilter
had a will of iron. Nor was Olive's bondage
cheered by news of Willie. She had never
heard one word of him since they parted. She
confided to her governess that when at Butterfield
she used to play with a very dear little
boy called Willie. Miss Quilter ' wondered
her uncle allowed it. It was not nice for girls
to play with boys.' Olive innocently disclosed
that the little boy's uncle was a butcher, on
which Miss Quilter in a frightened whisper
begged her to be ' quite sure never to mention
that fact again to anyone as long as she lived.'
And being pressed for her reason for this strange
injunction, Ohve was told that she would soon
find out for herself that it would not do ! She

said that she hoped to see Willie some day, ashe
lived in Hanway Town, and Hanway Town
was very near.

My dear ! ' cried Miss Quilter, 'I am convinced
that you will never be allowed to know
anyone who lives in Hanway Town ! ' and then
she set a great stone over her lips,, and sealed
them to silence. Ohve could not draw one word
more from her on the subject. She had already
talked to her aunt about Willie, and Mrs. Brooke
had listened and said it was quite a romantic
story, and Olive was quite a romantic little
woman, and that some day perhaps she would
see Willie grown rich and great, riding a beautiful
horse in the park, or driving a splendid carriage
; but when Olive said she wanted to know
what he was doing now, Mrs. Brooke replied that
she had not time to trouble herself about that
something very uninteresting, no doubt, in
reality, if Olive did but know.

But may he never come to our house ? '
asked the child ; ' or mayn't I go to see him ? '

Go to see boys of that kind ! Butchers'
nephews ! I never heard of such a thing.'

Dr. Brooke never heard of such a thing

either, when Ohve's wish was repeated to him,
and he even defined to waste time in feeling
horror at the idea. ' Mind your books ; ' ' Attend
to your lessons ; ' ' Eun away, and do bea
good girl,' was all that Olive could obtain
from an inky-fingered aunt, or an overworked
uncle, when this subject was brought forward ;
and in' time she ceased to speak of it, cherishing
the thought of her dear little companion all the
more tenderly because she was not allowed to
speak of him, and retreating, whenever she was
able, to a lonely world where all was joy and
sunlight, and she and Willie were the sole inhabitants.
' Mind her books : ' she had none
but school books ! Under the Quilter dispensation
all novels were locked away, and all
poetry was discountenanced save such as contained
a due amount of moral teaching. She
parsed ' Thomson's Seasons ' by way of studying
the classics profitably, and read ' Paradise
Lost ' aloud on Sunday afternoons, passing over
the devil's speeches as dangerous. Olive felt
the want of what she considered poetry so
much, that she took to writing it for herself, and
amply repaid herself for all privations that she

was compelled to undergo, by depicting a world
entirely to her own taste, where she lived free
from any fetters, either of time, or space, or
custom. If she touched common earth at all
in any of these effusions, it was only when she
shrieked  occasionally, alas  in somewhat halting
lines ! her rage at the chains which bound
her. All this dislike of her actual life was very
much exaggerated. She was by no means an
unhappy child, but she always proclaimed herself
as such in verse, because she had a fixed
belief that everyone who wrote poetry must
write as if under the ban of no common
despair.

Dr. Brooke had, however, made too sudden
a change in Olive's way of life. He took away
the books he disapproved of, but did not give
her others. She was torn away from Willie
and shut up with Miss Quilter, who was like a
bit of arid land on which neither flower nor
green herb would grow, and who felt as much
sympathy and pity for Ove as a block of
Aberdeen granite in a cemetery does for the
daisies which are displaced to make room for

it. Alick and Lucy, her cousins, were dear
little things, but too young to be more than
playthings to Olive.

At last, a year and a half after she had left
Austerfield, Olive heard that her Aunt Lettice
had been asked to pay a visit in Harley Street,
and as soon as the child heard this she was full
of delighted expectation of either seeing or
hearing of her companion Willie. She asked
a multiplicity of questions. Miss Lettice replied,
that she knew nothing about him ; he
had gone back to his own family ; he had not
been at Austerfield ; he was at school, she
thought. She dealt with his uncle as usual,
and thought it was ' very dishonest of him to
charge so much for his best joints ! It was too
bad in a place where there was no other
butcher within two miles, and when he knew
that the larder at the Grange was such a bad
one for keeping things.'

Oh, Ait Lettice,' cried the outraged
Olive, ' do say no more about that ! I hate it
all ! Besides, it has nothing to do with Willie ;
he did not live with that uncle, he lived with
his grandmother.'

I know where he lived quite as well as
you,' cried Miss Lettice, ' and you had no business
to play so much with him, or ever to know
anything about him. Everyone here in London
says that, and I say it too ! I have been more
scolded about that boy, and that time, than I
can ever forget ! I shall never hear the last of
letting you run wild and have all your own
way ; but all I can say is this, that if you were
to come back to Austerfield now, and this
Willie happened to be there, you should not
say one single word to him. And as for books,
you should not touch one of mine. Your
uncle and aunt should send whatever they
wished you to read with you in your own box,
for I never will be so scolded again.'

Not speak to Willie if I saw him ? '

No, not speak to Willie if you saw him !
It is no use crying  my mind is quite made
up ! '

Olive's tears fell faster and faster,  Miss
Lettice grew more and more uncomfortable.
Don't cry, Olive,' said she nervously ; ' nothing
has been said about your going back with
me ; and if you did go, I do not suppose this

Willie you think so much about would be
there.'

I never  never thought you would be so
cruel,' sobbed Olive.

I  I am not cruel  I would do anything
for you, Olive  anything that was good for
you, I mean ! ' But Olive would not be comforted.


Don't go on crying, dear, please don't. I
will show you that I am not cruel. Come
upstairs with me. I have something in my
box which I am sure you will like ; come, and
you shall have it.' Thus saying, she led the
child tenderly upstairs  unlocked a box, and
drew out two very gaudy railway novels translated
from the French, with agonizing pictures
on the covers. ' There, child, you may read
those if you like. There is nothing in them to
hurt you  at least, I am almost certain there
is not,' she added, with a sudden distressed
consciousness that their contents had entirely
slipped out of her mind.

Thank you,' replied Olive, putting them
down ; ' Uncle forbade me to read novels.'

Then, here,' said poor Aunt Lettice,

fumbling nervously with the catch of her
purse,  ' here is a sovereign for you  ask your
uncle to tell you what books you may buy with
it, and then you will have something to amuse
you.'

CHAPTEE VI.

Oh days wherein all songs of birds were sweet,
The birds that mock us now with boisterous mirth ;
Days when we laughed for joy of summer's heat,
Nor laughed less well when snow made white the earth !

This present of Miss Lettice's led to the only
adventure which enlivened Olive's life for
years. Proud of her errand, the child went
with Miss Quilter to the bookseller's, and came
hurrying back to luncheon, exclaiming, ' Oh,
Uncle Eichard  Aunt Selina  such a very
strange thing has happened ! Just listen  let
me tell you. We took your list to Hatfield's
shop, and we were turning over the books he
brought us  and he is so stupid, uncle, he
hasn't half those you wrote on your list  he
said they were out of date  well, we chose
amongst those he had, and when we were done,
and I was giving your address for the parcel to
be sent, a lady I had not noticed before turned

suddenly round, looked very steadily at me as
if she wanted to see deep down into my eyes,
took my hand in both hers, and said, " Don't
think it strange of me to shake hands with you,
dear ; your father and I were friends a longtime
ago  you are very like him ; " and so she
stood looking at me, and I stood looking back
at her for ever so long, or perhaps it only
seemed so long to me because I felt so strange
and as if I did not know what to do or say,
and then she said, " I hope he is quite welland
Miss Quilter came and answered and told
her that you were pretty well, but that you
were not my real papa, and after that the lady
went away. What ought I to have said ? '

Quite a romantic adventure ! ' cried Mrs.
Brooke, adopting her usual formula. ' I think
I had better use it  I will make the lady very
beautiful '

She was beautiful,' interrupted Olive, ' ina
heavenly, star-ike way.'

I will describe her beauty in more intelligible
language,' said Mrs. Brooke, ' and,
Richard, I'll make her the wife of the gentleman
she asks after, only he shall have married

again because he thought this lady, the first
wife, you know, was dead.'

Selina dear, I really think it would be
better if you were to compose your novels in
the stillness of your own chamber.'

Oh, there shall be no harm in this at all ;
my book shall be a kind of Enoch Arden story
turned the other way. The first wife shall
never reveal herself, but shall flit about her
husband's path all his life. She shall take care
never to let him see her, but she shall be a sort
of good angel to him and his family, and do
everything she can for them all. Oh ! I will
make it so beautiful and touching !  Why,
Eichard, how pale you are ! '

I am affected by your new plot,' said he
drily.

Olive was haunted by the pretty lady's eyes
for months ; she described them as beautiful,
sweet, loving eyes, which looked as if they had
such a great deal to tell you. She was always
longing to see her again, but she never did.
She made her the heroine of some romantic
poems, and then she forgot about her. She
never forgot Willie, though all she could

VOL. I. H

do to bring herself nearer to him was to gaze
affectionately across the chimney-pots in the
direction of Hanway Town, or pore over the
map of London until she knew by heart the
name of every street in the unfashionable
suburb in which he dwelt. She spent a great
deal of time in forming plans to get to see it,
but Quilter the odious  the alert  the unper-
suitable, would never listen to any entreaty to
walk that way. Either she remembered that
her eldest pupil had played with a butcher's
nephew who now infested that district, or she
herself, grim spinster though she was, preferred
to take her walks abroad in a more fashionable
neighbourhood  ego northwards she would not ;
and Olive, at last, gave up seeking to compass
her desires, and waited with the settled purpose
of making a weak-willed nursery-maid take her
there, the very first time they were out together
alone. This, however, would not come to pass
for four months, when Miss Quilter would goto
spend her holidays with her sister. For
this Olive waited, pondering meanwhile on the
inscrutable ways of Providence, which had
permitted the existence of a second Miss
Quilter.

At last an opportunity came ; Miss Quilter
bad departed, and Olive's two little cousins
were from home. She began her attack on
Betsy by saying that she would like to walk up
there, ' right past those trees.' Then she said
that she had heard of Han way Town, and
would so like to walk there just to get to know
what the place was like.

'I know very well what it is like,' said
Betsy ; ' I go there on Sundays when I am out.
I have a friend there. But it is nothing to
want to see, Miss Olive.'

'But I do want to see it. Let us go
there.'

It is too far.'

Let us walk on in that direction, and then
if we find that it really is too far we can turn
back.'

And then you will go home tired out, and
say as how it was my persuading as took you
there.'

'No, indeed I wouldn't. I would say
nothing.'

But if I did go all the way there with you,
I am sure you wouldn't wait a minute for me

till I just went into Marshall's shop to see if I
could have a word with my friend ? '

How long ? '

Perhaps -we, minutes.'

Yes, I would ; but you must first show meas
much of Hanway Town as you can.'

You won't think much of it when you do
see it,' said the girl. ' There's nothing to call
aristocratic about it  just clerks and such as
that live there.'

At last they reached Hanway Town, and
Olive felt a tightness of the heart as she looked
at the long rows of small houses. Poor Willie !
But perhaps he lived in one of the better ones.
They were all small and dingy, and marked
with the brand of humble gentility. Olive did
not like little tables covered with crochet tablecloths
with one large shell on a fluffy mat, for
central and sole decoration.

Come along. Miss Olive ; we have no
more time to lose,' cried Betsy, seeing Olive's
eyes and steps so much arrested.

Should you like to live here, Betsy ?  I
mean, to have one of these houses for your
own? '

Well, if anyone was making me a present
of it, perhaps ; but if I was a-choosing for
myself and had plenty of money, it would have
to be something genteeler

We will go,' said poor Olive, sadly.

Yes, but Marshall's ! ' exclaimed Betsy.

They went there; but Betsy's 'just five
minutes' became three-quarters of an hour,
and still Olive was left standing outside, gazing
with an utter absence of interest on muslin
collars and artificial flowers  a bright show
enough, but there was not a flower among
them of the good old Austerfield hedge-row
pattern. She made various uncertain plunges
into the doorway with an idea of seeking
Betsy, but the shop was so large that she was
afraid to go in. She walked backwards and
forwards outside in great uneasiness, and at
last began to look as if she were going to
cry.

Wliat is it ? ' inquired a soft voice, and
looking up, Olive saw the lady of her romance,
the lady who had spoken to her in the bookseller's
shop. She was quite as beautiful as the
picture which Olive's memory had preserved of

her. Her dress was a plain black one, well
made, but much worn ; nevertheless there was
something about her which made Olive think
her superior to all the ladies she had ever seen.
Olive said she was waiting while Betsy was
inside the shop speaking to a friend, but that
she was beginning to be afraid she was never
coming.

Betsy is a very naughty girl ! If your
uncle and aunt knew that she left you in the
street in this way, I am sure they would be
very angry.'

Then they must never know, for it is my
fault ; I teased her till she came here with me.
I wanted so to see what Hanway Town was
like.'

I wonder why,' said the lady in so musical
a voice that Olive felt there was no power of
withholding one thought of her heart from
such a pretty sweet-voiced lady, and in her
own impetuous way began to tell how, long
ago, when she was quite a little girl at her
grandmother's, she had known such a dear boy
called Willie, who came from Hanway Town,
and how they had been parted and had never

seen each other any more. She had, she said,
always longed to get just one peep at Hanway
Town that she might be able to picture to herself
where Willie was living. ' Do you perhaps
know him ? ' she asked, turning eagerly to the
strange lady, whose whole face was lit up by
one warm, bright, and loving smile as she
answered, ' No, dear child, I don't know him.
I am sure he is a nice little boy, though.'

On this Olive put her arm in hers in trusting
love, and was on the very point of telling
her that they were engaged to be married, and
therefore certain to see each other again some
day, when she was chilled by these words :
But you ought not to have come here to-day
with you" nurse without asking permission.'

They would very likely have said no, and
I did so want to come  I have wished it for
three years. It is three whole years since I
saw him, and during all that time I have wished
it every day of my life.'

When you are older, little Olive,' replied
the lady sadly, ' you will find that these things
which we wish for so much that we think of
them every day of our lives are often just the

very things which it is not good for us to have,
and which we must give up

Olive sighed and wondered what the dear
lady could have had to give up that she much
wished to keep. Something, she was sure.
Is there anybody whom you want to see as
much as I want to see Willie ? ' Her companion
did not answer. She was looking
straight before her.

Are you unhappy ? ' inquired Ohve.

Yes, dear, I am afraid I am  not always
sometimes  don't think of me.'

Olive clasped her hand tightly and looked
with anxious eyes in her face,  instinctively
she worshipped her new friend.

Betsy now came out of the shop in a great
fuss, looking red and cross, and flourishing an
untidy paper parcel of small purchases. ' Miss
Olive, that's always the way,' said she in a loud
aggrieved aside,  ' always ! If one just turns
one's back on you for a single minute, you are
safe to go and get into some mischief or
another! Now, you know you haven't ought
to have spoken to no strangers, and you pro -
mixed me you wouldn't.'

This lady is not a stranger,' replied Olive ;
I have met her before  besides, she is an old
friend of my uncle's.'

Betsy looked rather disconcerted. ' Well,
it wasn't me, as you know. Miss Ohve, as wanted
to walk here in the blazing hot sunshine all the
way uphill to Hanway Town. When it comes
to be found fault about, you will please to
remember that coming here was not along of
me or of any Lavish of mine, but that it was
you yourself as kept on plaguing me to come,
and worried and said so much about it, that I
didn't know at last whether I was standing on
my head or on my heels, and just gave in to
you and came.'

I never asked you to go into that shop
and leave me waiting here for a whole hour,'
said Olive indignantly.

I say !  an hour ! ' cried Betsy, turning
very red ; ' five minutes, you mean ; and if you
expect me to toil all the way up here, and
pass by Marshall's shop without one word to a
friend I have there, all I can say is, it is more
than can be looked for from anyone.'

Olive was going to reply, but the lady

checked her and told her to say no more ; it
was unladylike to dispute. ' Go home and tell
your aunt exactly what you have done,' she
added ; ' she is sure to be anxious.'

Her anxious, when she has her pen in her
hand !  not a bit of it ; and if Miss Olive goes
and tells her everything, as you say, I'm sure it
will be too bad! I did not want to come
trailing here.'

Walk behind us,' said the lady to Betsy ;
I shall go home with Miss Brooke, and you
must follow close behind.'

There was a quiet air of authority about
her which Betsy did not feel able to resist.
Muttering something about ' It was me as was
sent out with Miss Olive, and not you,' she fell
behind, and the lady walked quietly homewards
with Olive ; and somehow, though
nothing was said in the way of direct faultfinding,
Olive became aware that she had
behaved very ill in taking Betsy so far without
asking leave ; also, that she was not living as
she ought to do when she spent so much time
in cherishing romantic day-dreams and railing
against her lessons. This was quite a new

light to the undisciplined Olive ; she had always
thought that by so doing she had chosen the
better part, and that it was the truest sign of
genius to be discontented with common everyday
life.

A true genius,' said her friend, ' would
find beauty and nobility in any life, however
humble and commonplace, if borne worthily.
Besides, you ought to do your duty before you
even think about being a genius.' Olive hung
her head.

You love your uncle and aunt ? '

I should think so ! I love Aunt Selina
very much, but I'd go barefooted to the end of
the world to get a pleased smile from my uncle.'

 Is that true, dear ? You know he gives
you a governess because he wishes you to learn,
and you know that you won't even take the
trouble to try to understand the lessons she
gives you  you only learn them by rote. I
have no doubt he would give you as many
smiles as you like if he thought you worked ashe
wished.'

He does give me smiles  he does think I
work.'

Then, you deceive his trust.'

'I will be different,' said Olive very gently.
She was silent for a while, and very thoughtful
for nearly a week afterwards  then she burnt
her MSS., and applied herself to work hard with
Miss Quilter when she returned, and with such
result that even that lady, who did not care
much for anything but the dry bones of things,
could not but see that her pupil was doing her
very best to master what she taught her. She
informed Dr. Brooke of this, who came to kiss
Olive as she was sitting all alone in the grim
professional-looking dining-room, and told her
how pleased he was.

I know I am working better,' said Olive ;
'I am doing it because that lady told me I
ought.'

Uncle,' continued Ove, as he only stroked
her hair by way of an answer to this speech,
'what is her other name? She would only
tell me that she was called Alice. You remember
what she said to me, " Tell your
uncle that I hope he won't think I have
taken a Liberty in looking after you a little.
I did not like to leave you to go home alone

with that maid who had deserted you once
already." '

Yes, I know, Ohve,' said Dr. Brooke
rather impatiently ; ' you told me all about it
before.'

But, uncle, was it not odd of her not to
tell me her name  her other one, I mean ? I
wanted her to come in, but she wouldn't, and
then I said, " But who must I say it was that
brought me home ? " or nearly home it was,
you know, for she didn't come to the door, and
she said, " You need only say a lady your uncle
used to know a long time ago. We don't
know each other now, so it is of no use to send
my name. Tell him that I have spoken to
you this once, but only because I thought it
was a case of need, and that he may trust me
never to speak to you again." '

" But I want a name to think of you by,"
said I ; and then she just stooped over me, and
one of those smiles of hers came over her whole
face, and she said, " You may think of me by
the name of Alice," and so I do.'

That is right, dear ; but why do you tell
me all this over again ? '

Because I want to know if you don't think
of her too, sometimes ? '

Dr. Brooke had been looking down on the
child with a face full of grave interest ; at this
question, which was unexpected by him, he
almost started.

Of course I do ; she is, I think, a lady
I knew long, long ago, when I was almost a
boy.'

A boy of ten ? ' cried Olive, thinking this
was a similar case to her own and Willie's, and
that perhaps her uncle and this Alice had also
loved each other as children and had been
parted ever since.

A boy of twenty and twenty-hive.'

And then ? ' cried Olive eagerly.

Nay, I have never seen her since, and now
I am forty-two.'

Dear me ! ' exclaimed Olive musingly.
Then, do you think of her by the name of
Alice, or by some other name ? ' This inquiry
was a direct inspiration of the demon of
curiosity.

'I have nothing more to tell you, Olive.
She was a very sweet good girl then, and I

have no doubt she is just as good now, but I
am not likely ever to see her again. When
you grow older, dear, you will find that, as life
goes on, people do slip out of your sight, and,
though you may still have a strong liking for
them, you don't see them.'

But why not ? ' cried Olive. ' Perhaps
she lives somewhere quite near  we might see
her  why don't we ? '

Probably because she has her work to do,
as I have mine  it certainly does not leave me
much time to see people. I am staying too
long with you now. Good-bye.'

Olive was far from being satisfied. She
wanted to hear much more about this lady.
After this one conversation, she could never
induce either her uncle or aunt to name her.
Mrs. Brooke always said that she knew nothing
about her, not half so much as Olive herself ;
and Dr. Brooke would say no more than he
had said. One thing Olive could not fail to
remark, and that was, that henceforth she was
forbidden to go out with anyone but Miss
Quilt er. Daily they took their duty walk
together, and often did Olive's eyes scan the

passers-by, to see if by some lucky chance her
romantic adventure could be repeated ; but the
lady had said, ' I shall never speak to you
again,' and she did more  she did not even let
herself be seen by her.

CHAPTER VII.

With eves full of sacred imaginings of things that are not.

RUSKIN.

The reader must be so kind as to imagine that
six years have passed since the date of the last
chapter, during which time Olive has left
childish things behind her, and grown into a
remarkably beautiful woman. She was now
nineteen, tall, slim, and very upright, with a
peculiarly graceful carriage. Her hair, once so
unmanageable, was now gathered in bright
well-ordered masses round her head. Her eyes
were of the dark rich blue which is something

o

like the colour of the stems of wild hyacinths.
There was a slight touch of melancholy about
them, though melancholy was by no means one
of Olive's characteristics ; but when she cast
down her long black eyelashes, there were
depths in her eyes which might mean a tinge
VOL. I. I

of sadness, or only denote quiet troughs and
much delight in the pleasures of retrospection.
Her complexion was a clear faint olive, with a
touch of bright colour in her cheeks. She was
indeed a bright young maiden altogether ; her
lips were rosy and her smile bewitching ; it
lighted up her whole face in one glow of
pleasure or sympathetic kindliness. She was
very shy, but at the same time impulsive, most
thoughtful and most thoughtless. She was
active-minded, quick-witted, helpful, and affectionate.
It was now nine years since those
happy days at Austerfield, and during all that
time she had never once seen Willie. Nor had
she so much as heard him named, except
perhaps once or twice in the casual, contemptuous
manner with which a matter of no interest
is spoken of and dismissed. Once she heard
that he had been at Austerfield, but when she
asked her little cousin Lucy, who was her
informant, if he had grown tall, and how he
looked, and what he did, the said informant
had not noticed him sufficiently to be able to
tell her.

To Olive herself, his image had by this

time become the very vaguest and most shadowy
of memories. She liked to think of him and
of the days when they were together ; but
though in these retrospection the fields and
woods and flowers stood up quite clearly
before her mind's eye, Willie did not ; and,
strive as she might, she could not remember
his face. Neither could she recall much that
he had said to her. In spite, however, of all
these drawbacks, the time when they were all
in all to each other always stood out as a blissful
period of absolutely idyllic happiness. It
was a rest from her present life in a smoky,
dusty, crowded town, to turn her thoughts
back to that peaceful far-off time of sunshine
and fresh air. But she never looked for its
return, never hoped to see Willie again. These
were things which by no means could be
restored to her ; they were part of other
childish joys which there was no renewing.
Willie had, no doubt, forgotten her. At their
age, nine years are equal to twenty later in life,
and that Austerfield time did seem so long ago.
Occasionally, with a half-blush, she remembered
that there was in the world a young
I 2

man whom she had promised to love for ever,
to welcome as her husband whenever he
claimed her, to whom she had given kisses and
every assurance of love in her power. She felt
very strange when she thought of these things,
and her cheeks grew hot when she reflected
that he also must recall them and sometimes
think of them as she did. Occasionally, too,
she could not help saying to herself, ' If Willie
were to remember all this and still care for me
and come ? ' She half caressed the idea, but
was half afraid of it. Then she dismissed it by
saying, ' Oh, he has forgotten me ever so long
ago. How could a boy go on thinking of such
silly things for so many years ? If ever he
thinks of me at all, it is only to be ashamed of
having spent so much time in playing with a
little girl.' This was on the whole her conviction,
and gradually she thought less and less
of him and of the past, though whenever she
did think of it, it was tenderly. After all, work
engrossed most of Olive's time and thoughts.
She went daily to a college near her own home,
and very hard she strove to learn all that was
taught there. French, German, and Latin,

Physical and Political Geography, Biology,
Geology, Geometry, Algebra, Logic, and all the
other arts and sciences which now it behoves a
girl to master, drove out the music of the rapid
backs of the north and the visions of sun-lit
woods carpeted with flowers. Poetry was rare,
parsing and analysis frequent. Fairy tales were
left to babyhood, or turned into solar myths ;
legends were subjected to the light of reason,
and all the gods and goddesses of mythology
were put in their proper and useful places
kept there, too, for the most part, though
every now and then Olive's old spirit broke
out, and the old love of romance asserted
itself.

To Dr. Brooke these last six years had been
years of intensely hard work, during which he
had made his way professionally, but had found
to his grief that he was no longer a strongman.
Constant attacks of illness had weakened
his faith in his own health, and had made him
somewhat gloomy about the future. He was
in other respects quite happy. He no longer
distressed himself about Mrs. Brooke's literary
craze. Olive his niece was all that he desired.

His boy Alick was at Harrow  his daughters
Lucy and Amy were at school in Brighton.
They were better brought up than they could
have been at home. Mrs. Brooke was much
the same as when our story opened  still absorbed
in the weal or woe of fictitious personages
of her own creation  still bent on flourishing
a big cheque in her husband's face some
day, which would reward him for his years of
waiting for her success. These last years had
brought her the joy of seeing three of her
novels in print. One, that from which she
had hoped so much, had only found a publisher
on condition that she paid half the expenses,
which half had never been regained by her.
Nor had her book brought her much credit.
The next novel was printed on the 
principle, after a great deal of
signing, witnessing, and delivering. After a
long lapse of time came a document professing
its intention to show forth an account of sales
and returns. But all that was clear to Mrs.
Brooke was, that there were no returns. It is
true that a respectable number of hundreds of
copies had been sold, but the profits had been

SO taxed and re-taxed, and subdivided and
subtracted from, that 10/. or 15/. would amply
represent her earnings  not a sum with which
to make a figure in conversation, or a cheque
large enough to flourish in justification of the
time which she spent in writing. This novel
was called ' The Fateful Fortnight,' a name
which might in De Quince's words have been
characterized as a very overt act of alliteration.
A third book had just come out, and had been
favourably reviewed in two or three newspapers,
on the strength of which Mrs. Brooke had set
to work harder than ever, and rarely left her
study.

Dr. Brooke had not many relations living,
but all of them pitied him for having such a
bad wife, and spoke their minds most freely ;
but their remarks did not trouble the gifted
authoress, for she said her time was much too
valuable to spend in dwelling on the silly
speeches of people who had nothing else to do
but talk of their neighbours, and locked herself
in her own room. The indignant relations
had, therefore, no opportunity of speaking their
minds to her, for she only saw them when her

husband and niece were present. Miss Lettice
still lived at Chesterfield, but her aged father
and mother were dead. Little as she knew of
the world and its ways, she too said it was
a shame that Olive was not ' taken out.' So
said Mrs. Ullathorne also, and when Mrs. Ulla-thorn
said anything she meant it. She was
Dr. Brooke's eldest sister, ten years older than
he was  a widow, and an ill-tempered one.
Her husband had been a merchant in Manchester
 a self-made man, who had died leaving
more than a quarter of a million ; and now his
wife lived in Kensington Square with Miss
Cochrane, an oppressed worm of a companion,
who turned, not on her employer, but on
everyone else.

Mrs. Vincent Raymond, another sister of
Dr. Brooke's, said the same thing. ' It was a
great shame to keep a pretty girl like Olive
imprisoned in a dull, dingy, dark Harley Street
house ; she ought to be introduced and taken
everywhere.' Mrs. Ullathorne sniffed indignantly
when she heard Mrs. Raymond say that
Olive ought to be taken everywhere : ' everywhere
was worse than nowhere ! Mrs. Raymond

was far too fond of going to houses whose
owners did not care whether she was dead or
alive.' Mrs. Raymond, who was the wife of a
country gentleman, and still lived on the reputation
of having been a beauty, smiled at Mrs.
Ullathorne's old-fashioned folly, but dared not
let her see that she did so, and said she would
get her dear brother Chesterfield's permission
to take Olive to Court  the child would have
to be presented, and the sooner it was done
the better. Mrs. Ullathorne said she might
write and make the osier, but Sister Raymond
must know very well that, even if Chesterfield
liked the idea of having Olive presented in his
absence, and wrote to consent, he would quite
forget to send a cheque for her equipment, and
was Sister Raymond prepared to incur this
expense herself? Mrs. Raymond looked disconcerted
; she and her husband had been
counting on Mrs. Ullathorne to manage that
part of the business, and meekly she said so.
On which that lady laughed her to scorn,
and declared that when she spent money, she
spent it on sensible things, and not on a few
dozen yards of silk to put in a train for the

benefit of court milliners. ' I'll give a dinner
and ask her,' said she, ' and that will be introduction
enough ! '

'Oh, sister! Eeally?'

I have said it, and I mean it,' repeated
Mrs. Ullathorne. ' I'll give a dinner-party.'

Then clear in Mrs. Raymond's mind's eye
rose up a vision of that dinner, which she well
knew would be but a reproduction of many
another dinner of a dulness, and heaviness, and
oppressive ponderosity which had left their
mark on her for life.  And you will invite ? '
she began, though she well knew that Mrs.
Ullathorne would invite her stock-broker and
his wife, her doctor and his, her favourite
clergyman and his sister, a couple of friendly
barristers, the Brookes, the Eaymonds themselves,
and Dr. and Mrs. Ullathorne from the
East-end because they were relations ; and
having given poor Olive the doubtful enjoyment
of their company, and the opportunity of
refusing two soups, two fishes, four entrees,
and a number of other dishes provided with
equal amplitude, she would relax her efforts,
and Olive's life would then be as lonely and

dull as before, only darkened by the memory
of this ghastly dinner.

I am the one who ought to have the child,'
cried Mrs. Raymond. ' Chesterfield ought to
make me a handsome allowance ; he is quite
able to do it. I'd take her everywhere, and
have her well married before the end of the
season.'

You ! ' cried Mrs. Ullathorne with scorn.
And you'd settle her down with some one like
your own precious husband. No ! I tell you,
no ! Have I not informed you that I intend
to introduce Olive myself, and that I'll give a
dinner-party? so that, surely, may be considered
as settled.'

None of the Brooke family dared to resent
anything that Mrs. Ullathorne said, for she was
very ill-tempered, and could defend herself,
and besides, there was the quarter of a million,
and she was known to be looking out for an
heir to her wealth amongst her nephews and
nieces. She openly proclaimed that she could
not reconcile it to her conscience to leave her
money to anyone out of her own family, but that
she despised and dished every member of it.

Well, dear,' said Mrs. Raymond, ' it is
settled. You shall give the first party, since
you wish it.*

'I don't wish it,' cried Mrs. UUathorne
snappishly. 'I never said I did; I do it
entirely from a sense of duty. Olive must be
introduced to society by one of us, and my society
is the only society worth knowing. Yours
suits you and your husband ; you know best 
at least, you don't, but you won't listen to me.'

Mrs. Raymond smiled good-naturedly, and
said again, ' And you will invite  ? '

Well, Olive of course, and Eichard Brooke
and that scribbling goose of a wife of his, and
you and your  and your husband' (for once
she considerately omitted the descriptive epithet
which she felt to be so appropriate), ' and your
two boys  and tell them not to come smelling
of tobacco-smoke  and Mr. Reynolds,' &c. ;
for she did but name the names Mi's. Raymond
bad foreseen.

Sister,' cried that lady, eagerly, ' if you
like to give me some money to spend on Olive,
I'll buy her some pretty evening dresses : Selina
has such vile taste.'

I am poor said Mrs. Ullatliorne, ' very
poor. Besides, who knows what calls I may
have on my money, or how long I have to be
here ? Sister, I sometimes think my time will
be very short. Miss Cochrane and I were at
Finchley Cemetery the other day  she went to
see some silly old woman's grave which she
wanted to shed a few tears over  I forget
whose, and it is no matter, but there is such a
pretty bit of ground there, in one corner  I
like a corner to be buried in, and so IVe bought
it for myself, and who knows hoar soon I shall
be lying in it? ' and ]airs. Ullatliorne hung her
head.

But that bit at Terrified you got Vincent
to buy for you ! Have you forgotten that you
said you liked the idea of being buried near
some of the family, and I suppose we shall
have to be buried there when our time comes,
as Vincent is Squire.'

No, I've not forgotten ; I've changed my
mind, that's all,' said Mrs. Ullathorne grimly.

But you bought a bit at Bonchurch ; you
said that was the prettiest graveyard you had
ever seen.'

Well, so I did ; but I think I like better to
be nearer town, and I fancied this corner place.
If I have wasted my money. Sister Raymond,
you need not mind  I don't suppose it will
make much difference to you  at least, your
boys will have to change a good deal before I
leave what I have to either of them.' And as
she said this, Mrs. Ullathorne, a grim, grey
woman with stony-looking features, sniffed contemptuously,
and drew herself up in her high-backed
chair, and pitilessly watched the distress
of the fashionably dressed, but somewhat faded
little beauty of a sister, who had so much need
of this money of which they were speaking.

I am sure that both my boys are very
anxious to please you, they really are, if they
only knew how. Sister, it really is rather
difficult. I often wish you would speak plainly,
and tell me what it is that you want altered
in them.'

They want altering inside and out, before
they will suit me,' replied Mrs. Ullathorne.

But, at any rate, you don't like any of the
other nieces and nephews better ? '

No, I detest all my nieces and nephews

but Olive, and I am not fond of her. Bat I
suppose I shall have to choose one of them for
my heir. I'll not make my will, though, till
I see the rest of Chesterfield's children ; how
many has he ? I declare I forget.'

Oh, you won't care for them ; you know
you don't like foreigners ; they must have been
ten years at Lausanne.' All Olive's younger
sisters had been brought up in a school at
Lausanne.

That's enough of itself to bring a curse on
Chesterfield's children,' said Mrs. Ullathorne.
That's just enough, without anything else.'

My dear ! ' gasped Mrs. Raymond, surprised
to the top of her bent.

Don't my-dear me,' cried Mrs. Ullathorne ;
I am not in my dotage yet, to want petting.
Don't I know what I am talking about ? I am
quite aware of the value of words and of
thoughts too, which is more than some people
who shall be nameless are  what I mean is
this, and what I will maintain is this,' and here
Mrs. Ullathorne unconsciously adopted the tone
and manner of the clergyman under whom she
had sat the last time she was at church, and

began to thump the table just as he had
thumped the cushion : ' that if our Maker for
His own wise purposes caused people suddenly
to begin to speak a variety of different languages,
it was because. He did not wish them
to understand each other ; and if ever He had
changed his mind about it, and had thought
that they had better know what they were
saying to each other, it would have been very
easy for Him to make them all speak the same
language again. So, Sister Raymond, what I
am maintaining, and will maintain, is this, that
when you begin to teach your children, your
sons and your daughters, to palaver in foreign
languages just as if they were natives, it is flying
in the face of their Creator. The world
was made by design, and one of our Maker's
principal designs was that people should not
understand each other.'

Long as Mrs. Raymond had known her
sister, she had never yet grasped the fact that
all her opinions were the outcome of an overpowering
desire to contradict everything that
was said to her. She had no fixed belief in
the theory for which she had just contended at

such length, and was capable of taking the
contrary line five minutes afterwards, as Mrs.
Raymond quickly discovered when she joyously
exclaimed, 'My dear boys were plucked because
their Greek and Latin were so bad, and
when they turned to modern languages they
did not get on a bit better ; both of them came
to grief just the same.'

Just like them ! ' cried Mrs. Ullathorne,
wheeling shamelessly round. ' Just exactly
what I should have expected of them ! They
make their father pay a great sum to send them
to College to learn something, and when they
are there, can't be persuaded to open a book.'

But ' began Mrs. Raymond.

Sister Raymond, be quiet with your buts ;
let us get the dinner settled.'

The sincere and hearty impulse of everyone
invited to the Ullathorne dinner was to send
an excuse and escape it. Mr. Raymond, who
well knew that his sister-in-law set her guests
down to an incendiary sherry and indigenous
champagne, prosaic food, and dull discourse,
hinted at a previous bachelor engagement ; but
that attempt at evasion was instantly quenched

VOL. I. K

by his wife, who thought him a lunatic to run
any risk of offending her rich sister. The two
young Eaymonds, however, flatly declined to
go ; not even the prospect of a quarter of a
million of money, with added savings, would
tempt them, as they declared, to place themselves
for so many hours under the shadow of
that great upas-tree of a woman who spread
desolation on all around her. They both declared
that they were more likely to get what
they wanted by staying away than by going,
but, in any case, eat that dinner of dismay and
dreariness they would not !

Oh, the incredible dulness of that evening !
No one dared to be himself  no one, indeed,
would have been allowed to be so for five
minutes. Each guest disapproved of the other
mentally and morally, and no topic was introduced
which had not been worn threadbare for
years. Selina, the gifted, shrank into herself.
Once she thought of making a study of the entertainment,
and of using it in a half-written
novel ; but Dr. Brooke had so emphatically
ordered her to keep her pen from revelling in
the peculiarities of his family, that she dared
not disobey him. The Doctor was the only

one who said a good thing ; he told an excellent
story, and much he suffered for it afterwards,
for it was one on which his wife had set
her affections for her book, and she had begged
him not to use it. ' You might have left me
my story, Eichard ; you promised me that
you would,' said she.

I am sorry I forgot ; but mind you, Selina,
a clever wife makes a very stupid husband !
You want everything for your novels ; you have
cramped my language for five years already,
with your " Do remember that, I want to use
that ; " " Be sure not to tell the other." When
will this tyranny be over-past ? '

The story was too good for them ; I never
was so bores in my life ! ' She was silent for
awhile, and then she cried, 'Eichard, do tell
me how long Mrs. Ullathorne will live. You,
as a doctor, cMight to have some idea.'

Live ? Why ? What do you mean ? '

She would make my fortune if I could use
her, she would indeed. She is so preternaturally
ill-tempered and disagreeable. She
would be admirable in the novel I am doing,
quite admirable.'

And you want to know how long my sister
will live, in order to '

Don't be angry, dear Eichard ; you know
everything ought to give way to art.'

Dr. Brooke screwed up his lips, and thought
that in his house most things did do so.

Is all going out like that ? ' asked poor
Ohve.

Don't ask me,' said Dr. Brooke, who was
ill and tired. ' All visiting bores me.'

Don't make me go to any more parties,'
said Olive ; ' I like home best.' So she did,
and gladly made herself useful to her aunt in
anyway she could. Many a long chapter of
The Fateful Fortnight's ' swiftly coming successor
was copied by her, and many a gap in
housekeeping filled by her, and no sigh was
given to society, for she judged society by what
she had seen at Mrs. UUathorne's.

Two or three weeks afterwards, Olive had
an opportunity of seeing another aspect of the
world and its ways. The Eaymonds were
going to the Derby. Mr. Raymond was a member
of the Four-in-hand Club, and had made
up a party for the day, or rather, had let his

wife do so. Mrs. Raymond at the last moment
persuaded Mrs. Brooke to allow Olive to go.
She was not sme that the Doctor would quite
approve of races for her, but Mrs. Raymond
was his own sister, Epsom was in the country,
and Olive would breathe pure air, see country
lanes, and enjoy them ; so she went. She enjoyed
herself thoroughly, but when she was
relating all the adventures of the day to
her uncle and aunt late in the evening, no
sooner had she mentioned the names of some
members of the party, than Dr. Brooke started
to his feet, seized the poker, and broke into a
dozen splinters the large piece of coal which
was innocently reposing in the centre of the
fire in which he as an invalid indulged. Then
he exclaimed, ' Lady North Denistoun, did you
say? Mrs. Beevor Haynes? You are quite
sure of the names ? '

Quite sure. Aunt Raymond told me
them.'

And they went to Epsom with you ? '

Yes, uncle, why not ? '

Why not ? But it is of no consequence ;
only, really, I should have thought your aunt

Raymond might have known better.' Then he
sat down again and was quiet, and did not
seem to hear the rest of Ove's story of her
day, and certainly did not hear Mrs. Brooke
say, ' Why, dear little Ohve, you will turn out
a perfect godsend to me, for you shall tell me
all about these gay places and things, and help
me to no end of good descriptions If such
was her hope, it was cut short at once when
Olive went to bed. ' Selina,' said he, ' I am
master of this house, and I must assert my
position ; I insist on two things ; one is, that
you never again allow Olive to go anywhere
under my sister Raymond's chaperonage ; and
the other is, that you at once renounce this
habit of shutting yourself up, and go out
sometimes in the evening with the child. If
it is right for her to go out, it is right she
should go under the care of a proper person.
Mind, I insist on it.'

But, Eichard, what does this mean ? '

'It means that that fool or knave of a

woman Esther Raymond has taken poor dear

Olive out for the day in the company of two

divorced women. I feel as if I could never

speak to her again ! ' Mrs. Brooke was shocked,
very much so ; but soon her prevailing feeling
was, that it ' was a great pity Ove had gone
out at all, girls were best at home.'

No, no ! she is nineteen, and she ought to
see something of society. It is a duty we owe
to her, and it shall be performed ; but she shall
never again be exposed to meet such persons.
Esther Raymond ought to be ashamed
of herself I '

Esther Raymond was not, and said, ' Vincent
asked them, but in society you meet all kinds
of people ; I am sorry about it, of course, but
it can't be helped now.'

You don't meet divorced women,' persisted
Dr. Brooke.

At any rate, you meet plenty of people
who ought to be divorced ; ' and then she
added that it was well known that Lady This
and Mrs. That were twice as bad as those poor
women Eichard was so angry about. She did
not approve of such women, of coin-se, but what
could she do ? However vague her feelings on
this point were, they were sharpened to keen
precision the moment Mrs. Ullathorne's name

was mentioned, and she was asked what she
supposed Sister Ullathorne would think of it ?

Eichard ! ' cried she with painful eagerness.
' You surely will not be so unhandsome
as to tell her ! You would do me and mine
a serious injury if you did ! She has such ridiculously
rigid ideas, poor woman ! '

Her ideas are mine,' said Dr. Brooke
coldly.

We have no right to judge,' said the lady.

'Yes, we have, when the case has been
judged for us ; but I won't say anything to
Mary.'

Thank you. You are always kind.'

I don't know that. As long as I live, I
shall resent what you have done ! To take a
young, inexperienced girl  a girl situated, too,
as poor dear Olive is  to such a place, with
such a party ! '

I was there,' said Mrs. Raymond, thinking
that fact disposed of all objections ; but Dr.
Brooke could not see it. He went home and
confronted his wife in her den. 'Have you
any invitations for the evening, at present ? '

Oh, yes, numbers.'

Let me see some of them.'

Well, dear, yes ; but, you see, I hardly
know where they are. I generally use them to
write on.' And she turned over her papers,
and behold, fragments of her novel, ' The
Ominous Oath,' were scrawled over the backs
of invitations to dinners and evening parties.

But you answer these, I hope ? ' said the
doctor.

Oh yes, I answer them all in time ; indeed,
those I write on are more likely to get
answers than those I put in the rack. They
catch my eye more.'

'Now, dear Selina, will you oblige me,
and, for the sake of doing your duty to my
brother's child, give up your " Ominous Oath,"
or whatever your new novel may be, so far as
to accept two invitations weekly ? '

Not dinners, Eichard ! ' said Mrs. Brooke
with a thrill of dread in her accents.

'No, not unless you like  at least, not
dinners only. Surely you, a woman of ability,
might make such things useful professionally.'

How Mrs. Brooke did enjoy those words !
but, he might have said a woman of genius 

ability was such a poor half-and-half word.
She soon remembered that he was her husband,
and therefore would not like to use such big
words when speaking of herself ; so she smiled
on his proposal, and began to say and think
that perhaps she had misused her opportunities.

Take her to concerts, theatres, and evening
parties. I am sure you have any amount
of invitations.'

And I may go where I like ? ' inquired
Mrs. Brooke.

Yes, you are not like Esther ; go where
you like.'

Chapter Vni.

How singular is the thing called pleasure !  Tempest.
Old fashions please me best.  Taming of the Shi-ew.

Mrs. Brooke did go where she liked, and very
soon she was surprised to find how much she
enjoyed herself. She picked and chose amongst
her cards of invitation, and by preference sought
the society of Literary folks, painters, and musicians.
'When I have got all I want from
these,' said she, 'I will cultivate people of
another kind. I am rather afraid that Eichard
is right, and that I have narrowed my sphere
of experience too much.' She had led such a
secluded life, that she was intensely astonished
at all she saw now that she did begin to go
out ; but she found constant inspiration for her
pen and food for her thoughts.

Whither away, dear lady ? ' said her husband

as she left the domestic hearth one evening,
no longer reluctant as of old.

Oh, to such a delightful party, Eichard 
oh, I am so glad I got an invitation ! You
ought to come with us  I know you would
enjoy it.'

This party was at the house of Messieurs
Willoughby and Langton, two of Mrs. Brooke's
favourite young poets, and no one was to be
there who was not either already distinguished
or certain to be so. There were poets, and
novelists, and artists, and musicians, and ladies
who looked as if they had walked out of pictures
(of a certain school, be it well understood)
; but no man was to be seen who had
not, in the judgment of the hosts, made good
his claim to be of the select few dowered with
genius. Youth, however, was the predominating
feature of the party  youth and intense hopefulness.
All were going to do great things.
Here were the men who had a year or so
before published the volumes of poems which
everybody spoke of at the time as so marvellously
full of promise, and on all sides were
heard whispers of the beauty of the poems they

were now writing. Some had seen the MS. of
Clifford's last sonnet. It was ' absolutely perfect
! ' A rondel by some one else was ' simply
too lovely ! ' ' xlnd Chesterton's play, did you
hear that, when he read it to a select few?
Well, there was no doubt of that making its
mark.' Then there were musicians who sat
down and sang you ballads of their own writing
set to music of their own composing, before
whom the path to undying fame seemed to
stretch itself forth, broad, smooth, and straight ;
and painters whose forthcoming pictures were
to revive the glories of the Turner and Sir
Joshua time. Some of the band had, it must
be confessed, met with slight reverses and discouragements
in their various branches of art,
which were to be naturally accounted for by
the jealousy and blindness of ' the dull and
commonplace men' who held the entrances to
the Temple of Fame, but the sufferers were too
young and too strong in hope to care for such
reverses, or to let them cast more than a passing
cloud on their lives. Their energy was undaunted,
their trust in the future unwavering,
and their handsome faces were full of the pride

of health and delight in the work which they
had set themselves to do. Edward Willoughby,
the elder host, had lavished worlds of thought
and fancy on the entertainment, which combined
all the beauties and singularities of the most
advanced Pre-Eaphaelite household, with a dash
of fairyland to lighten it. The floors were
covered with Indian matting and Persian rugs,
while a coarse sacking, gilded, stretched dado-wise
all round the walls, made a mellow background
for Indian and Japanese cabinets and
low divans covered with gorgeous silks and
embroideries. To these divans each lady was
with much ceremony and respect led as she
entered the rooms ; and when she had taken a
seat, a heavy-headed flower was placed in her
hand, which she graciously held. Heavy-headed,
too, were the fair ladies who thus came
in, with hair frizzed and rolled, and twisted and
filleted with gold or silver, or parti-coloured
bands under which a few flowers were naively
stuck, in frank confidence in their own power
of either arranging themselves, or lending
adornment without any arrangement. Most of
these fair guests were clad in soft white or faint

blue or amber dresses freakishly made ; tho-lit
where other people would have had them loose,
or loose where it might have seemed more convenient
to have them tight. They fell in pretty
folds, and looked creamy and delicate, and not
extravagant in the quantity of material used.
None of these ladies sat very upright ; all lounged
and lolled a little ; some stooped forward like
the water-lilies in their own hands when stalk
and stem began to grow limp. Some arranged
themselves in wistful and sentimental-looking
curves, which reminded  that is to say, would
have reminded anyone who did not enter into
the feeling of the assembly  of the letter S. All
had lovely fans, nearly all had necklaces, either
of spotted and poisonous looking beads, or flat
ones which seemed as if they had been lying
crushed out of shape for centuries in some faraway
and forgotten tomb, or else their necks
were encircled by beads of some strangely
tender blue-green or cloudy amber.

Langton and Willoughby had decorated the
rooms and settled how everything was to be ;
theirs was the idea that each lady on her arrival
was to be presented with a heavy-headed flower.

First, they were to have water-lilies ; then,
when these drooped and failed, they were to
have tulips, then clove carnations, and last of
all roses. Langton and Willoughby kept the
store of flowers and periodically went round
and renewed them, and as they took the discarded
flower from the ladies they threw it on the
floor. This was a strong point with them ; all
these flowers were manifestly to live and die for
their pleasure and that of their guests ; when done
with, they were to breathe out life at their feet.
Before anyone came, the floor had been
thickly strewn with rose-leaves, fair, pale pink
rose-leaves ; there they lay, and amongst them
were sprinkled carnations and pinks which gave
forth perfume when stepped on. Then upon
the ebony cabinets were glasses of eschscholt-
bias, all put there for the sake of seeing
them open their fiery golden hearts and then
droop lower and lower over the edge of the
glasses which held them, and die in the glow
of light and heat which had at first made their
joy. The gentlemen of the party were to have
no chairs, or seats on the sofas ; cushions were
spread on the floor on which they might sit or

kneel, and they could bury their hands in the
cool, soft rose-leaves lying there and win scent
and refreshment from their touch. Having made
up their minds to give, for once, a party entirely
after their own Pre-Eaphaehte hearts, Willoughby
and Langton had not invited anyone who was
not likely to enjoy the vagary of the moment to
its fullest extent. There were not more than
forty guests in all, and Mrs. Brooke was the only
person present who had any weight of years to
bear. She had made some effort to get an invitation,
and was loud in her admiration of all
she saw. It was perfect !  And they must
allow her to describe the party in one of her
books, exactly as it had taken place. If Mr.
Willoughby or Mr. Langton said she must not
do so, she was afraid she could not help disobeying
them. It was impossible not to attempt
to describe a thing which made such a strong
impression as this did on her. She had heard
of ' treading out fragrance, breathing perfume,'
but she had never dreamed of such a realisation
of the poet's words as this. No wonder Mr.
Willoughby's verses and Mr. Langton's plays
were so full of colour and sweetness if this was

VOL. I. L

their ordinary way of living ! Did they always
live in this way ? It was too delightful ! For
her part, never again would she give any party
without having every carpet in the house so
thickly covered over with rose-leaves that no
one could see one thread of it ; and if roses were
not in season, she would have something else 
flowers of some sort she would have  that is, if
her husband would allow her. On this Miss
Poingdestre (the champion of more than one
cause which requires some energy and endurance
in its supporters, and who had strayed into this
party rather against the will of its donors) 
Miss Poingdestre, who balanced her flower in a
way which taxed all the resources of its stalk,
was heard to mutter her opinion that ' if a husband
had a voice in such a matter as that, it
was just like the rest of the way the world was

managed, and the sooner '

Mrs. Brooke never waited to hear the end
of that dark saying, she was far too happy to
be damped by Miss Poingdestre or twenty like
her, and she passed on from the flowers and the
leaves to some groups of fans and a long row of
plates transfixed in endless agony and made to

show their pattern to all beholders, whether
they would or no, held in the perpetual grasp
of wires. She marvelled at the quaintness of
their effect, and was heard to declare that, come
what might, she too would have fans and the
same arrangement of plates. Then she caught
sight of a bit of embroidery, and then she wondered
where Olive was, for embroidery of this
kind would lend a grace to the dull Harley
Street study, and Olive's nimble fingers could
easily produce it ; but no Olive was at hand,
and Mrs. Brooke saw things on all sides which
made her forget she had wanted her. She
caught sight of another room where there was
a dado composed of tender wavy lines, which
to those present forcibly conveyed the idea of
water, in which were swimming fishes of all
sizes and shapes and markings, and here and
there a water-plant emerged, or a water-loving
insect hovered. The walls of this room were
the bluest of things green and the greenest of
things blue. There were no plates, no pictures,
no fans, but in a corner, so as to avoid all the
dark errors of a love of symmetry, or proportion,
or composition, flew a host of white
L '2

butterflies. They crossed the comer diagonally,
and were beautifully painted. ' How lovely ! '
cried all. ' How decorative ! ' 'So rightly put
in ! ' ' There's a touch of genius in the boldness
of that design.'

You like the flutter-bugs, ma'am ? ' said an
American poetess who had just written some
verses on the beauty of one of the rivers of her
own land as it squire through meadows green.

Indeed I do,' replied Mrs. Brooke, nothing
daunted ; ' but all is charming ! And T have
been content with wall-paper at six shillings
the piece, put on by a man who asks for beer
if you peep in to see if it is going to look well.'

If you like rooms done up in this way,'
said Mr. Willoughby, ' why not get yours done?
Those Harley-street houses turn out very well.
You would have to change your furniture, but
you could soon do that. I can tell you of a
fellow in the Seven Dials who can let you have
a set of first-rate chairs. They are Chippendale,
and the finest I have seen for years, beautiful
without bombast  absolutely beautiful.'

Can I remember that ? ' thought poor bewildered
Mrs, Brooke. ' I ought to have Olive

near me to help me to remember these things.
*' Beautiful without bombast " would make my
fortune, but I shall forget it, I know I shall.
Where is Ohve ? '

She peeped through a chink between a gaunt
Chippendale stand for a flower-pot, which had
one tall arum on it, and a screen rescued from
some lumber-room to make the delight of her
present hosts, and saw Olive talking to a good-looking
young man. She looked interested,
and Mrs. Brooke benevolently resolved to leave
her alone.

I am inclined to agree with you,' Olive's
new friend was saying. 'I think you are quite
right in feeling that if a picture is intended to
represent nature, it should be like nature. I
know Morrison holds that opinion, and I like
his pictures better than anyone else's.'

'Morrison! Willie Morrison!' cried Ohve
eagerly. And then she blushed deeply and
said, ' Oh, I beg your pardon. I was thinking
of a little boy I knew long ago.'

Mr. Denbigh  that was his name  smiled
and said, ' I believe my Mr. Morrison's name is
William  indeed I am sure it is.'

Olive breathed quickly.

You want to know if lie is the Mr. Morrison
you used to know ? '

Yes,' said Olive ; ' I want to know  I am
most anxious to know  I will tell you why,
afterwards.'

I am afraid I can't give you much information.
I was introduced to my Mr. Morrison
two or three winters ago in Eome  he was
painting there. I was always expecting him to
catch Woman fever and die ; for he used to
drive out across the Campagna every fine evening
to watch the sun set. That is a deadly
thing to do in winter, or indeed at any time.
I warned him, and he wouldn't be warned ; but
after all, I was the one who caught the fever 
not he, and he nursed me through it.'

You said drive out  the Willie Morrison
I knew was very poor.'

Oh, this one was not poor. I do not know
what he had, of course, but he lived in the same
way that everyone else did. He was an artist,
but he never sold pictures when he was there,
so he must have had money. He was a good
deal in society, though he did not care for it.'

It can't be the same,' said Olive sadly, for
her poor Willie was not likely to be spoken of
thus. ' Tell me what he was like.'

He was good-looking, tall, had dark hair
and bright hazel eyes, and was about twenty, I
think, and that is some years ago.'

But it must be the one I knew  I really
think it is.'

Olive looked so interested that he said, ' I
will tell you more about him. Let me see. I
never knew anyone so fond of poetry  he wrote
beautiful poems himself.'

Ohve shook her head. 'No, it is not the
same. The one I knew was poor and not in
society, and hated poetry  positively hated it.'

I am afraid I can tell you no more,' said
Mr. Denbigh, ' except that he was a capital
fellow and very kind to me. My Morrison, for
so I call him to distinguish him from yours,
used to be thought an excellent artist in Eome ;
his work is not much known here, but he has
lately been made an Associate of the Old Water
Colour Society, so if you go to their gallery you
may see it.'

Where does he hive ?  In Han way Town ? '

* Hanway Town ? oh dear no ! Not that I
know where he does hive, though, for he is
always sitting on open moors and mountain
tops.'

And what are his relations like ? ' she asked
very humbly, dreading what the answer might
be.

I don't think he has any. I know he has
neither father, nor mother, nor brother, nor
sister. His name is William Keithley Morrison
  I had forgotten that.'

That settles the question  I knew he was
not the same. The William Morrison I knew,
had no other name. He was poor and had a
poor father and mother. I knew him when I
was a very little girl long ago in a country
village, where my grandmother let me play
with him. I suppose I ought not to have played
with him, but it was very nice.'

He smiled, and she added, ' I ought to tell
you that I have never seen him since I was a
little girl of nine.'

It is a pity that I cannot help you to find
him again. My friend has some very marked
peculiarities. He is a fellow who likes his

work better than most people like their play,
and grumbles when he has to go into society.
He ought to have been here to-night  perhaps
he is coming. Don't look startled.'

Don't let him know how I have questioned
you, if he does come. I have bored you with
it for nothing, for the moment you said he was
fond of poetry, I might have known he was not
my old friend.'

For weeks after this evening at Mr. Willoughby's,
Mrs. Brooke did nothing but bring
sap-green things and sage-green things, and
tiny pieces of rigid furniture into Dr. Brooke's
house. Wall-papers of this soothing mildness
of colour, with botanical specimens printed on
them to enliven them a little, were stretched on
walls which had hitherto known only French
papers of satin sheen and golden lustre. All
the curtains and cornices, together with the
festoons and cords and tassels thereto appertaining,
were torn down and replaced by plain
poles from which depended severe lines of
crushed velvet, sap-green serge, or even rural
Bolton sheeting. Then came a change as complete
as that which annually befalls the pictures

in the Salon. All the drawing-room furniture
was sent up to the garrets and the nurseries, and
the garrets and nurseries were rifled for chairs,
tables, and corner cupboards, which were now
discovered to be perfect in taste, though years
before they had been consigned to these distant
regions with contemptuous wonder at the ugliness
of the things the Brookes contrived to
leave behind them when they died. Unmanageable
sideboards and sofas now once more
stretched their huge length along the rooms
below ; reckless seats offered their hospitality
to admiring guests. Pictures which had been
wrought by the aged Brooke grandmother in
her childhood now came to great honour ; a
line engraving copied touch for touch in black
thread on white linen once more saw the light,
and was called ' highly interesting ; ' while an
angel rising heavenwards with its face and
hands painted in water-colours, and the rest of
it embroidered in white silk, was brought downstairs
again, and once more soared where it
could be seen. Hand-screens, fire-screens, and
bell-pulls ' worked a hundred years before, and
hidden out of sight for fifty, enjoyed a new life.

and on all sides was heard the cry of ' New
lamps for old ones.' Meanwhile Mrs. Brooke
was as busy as a swallow, which eats, drinks,
bathes, and feeds her young, flying. She
superintended all these changes herself, writing
a passionate page, and then hurrying away withall
speed to see that no mistake was made in
her furnishing, then back to her pen, only to be
summoned from it to watch her floors being
stained, or to meet some gentleman in solemn
consultation in order to find ways and means to
cope with the difficulties of corniced ceilings
and white marble mantel-pieces. The work
progressed;, purchases were many, and soon
every corner of the rooms became almost uninhabitable
by reason of small overtiunable tables
and tall stands with what Mrs. Brooke believed
to be priceless china on them. Dr. Brooke had
at first been much pleased to see his wife ' come
to her senses and go out ; ' but every time she
went out she came home with some new idea,
and all her ideas were so large, and took shape
with such promptitude and decision, that he was
appalled.

My dear,' he sometimes said ruefully, ' remember

that I am not a rich man. Who is
to pay the bill?'

I'll pay the bill, Eichard. I have just discovered
that we can sell the dining-room
mantel-piece  great big, ugly thing that it is 
to a man who is collecting for France. We
can get 200/. for it. The mantel-piece will pay
the bills, dear.'

'The mantel-piece is expected to pay its
own weight of bills, I see,' observed Dr. Brooke,
drily, and turned on his heel ; but he came
back to say, ' Where are my pictures ? '

Oh, don't regret your pictures ; I have
been forced to send them into the back bedroom.
They are not decorative  they quite
throw the tone of the room out of harmony.'

I should like to know what you mean to
hang up that will look better than my Turners
and Fronts.'

Only wait, dear ; you will see ; I am sure
you will approve. I mean to treat myself to a
few Persian and Rhodian plates, and hang them
on the walls ; we can afford them, you know, if
we sell the mantel piece, and they will look jolly.'

" Jolly ! " dear.'

Yes, that's the right word to use. Professor
Seville used it to me only last'night.'

About plates, Selina ? '

'No, about pictures. He said the Botti-
cells at Burlington House last winter were
extremely jolly ; but it is right to use it in
speaking of china as well.'

Well, you'll tire of all this, I hope,' said
Dr. Brooke, and departed. His house was not
the only thing which was changed. Mrs.
Brooke dressed herself artistically. Sometimes
she was a mature Mary Queen of Scots, sometimes
a Catherine de Medicis with a forbidding
and murderous hood. Then Olive was made
to wear skimp, limp, Indian muslins, and Mrs.
Brooke sent down to Aunt Lettice for all the
old buckles and combs and waistbands and
lace fichus that could be found hungering in the
lumber-room at Austerfield, and attired in these
she went out. Mr. Ambergreen painted her in
the contorted attitude of a mediaeval saint, and
the picture was sent to the Dudley Gallery,
and was hung beside other damsels of the
same kind and much applauded, and Mr.
Ambergreen helped Mrs. Brooke to find her

way into the inner recesses of shops in Han way-street
where she bought all kinds of antique
ornaments of small intrinsic value but great
strangeness, and these were hung about Olive
with marked success, and wherever they went
these were discussed and admired. Olive, too,
was much admired, but not so much as these
uncouth decorations, and both she and Mrs.
Brooke were perfectly happy. Dr. Brooke
was not so happy. He began to think that
the last state of Selina his wife was worse
than the first. He did not like the rigid
outlines of his new home. He did not like
the ladies of his household to make such frights
of themselves. He had an affection for his old
engravings and dignified water-colours ; he did
not think that china plates were ever intended
to be hung up as pictures, or feel that they
supplied enough food for his eye's worship.
He hated aliquis and collectors' talk, which
always ends by dwelling on prices paid, and
bores you to death by its sameness. He remonstrated
with his wife. Nothing checked Mrs.
Brooke. She even went down on her knees
to show the maids how to polish a floor.

Surely you might employ your time better,
Selina,' said he one day when he found her
doing this.

I know you think I ought to be writing,'
said the gifted lady (Dr. Brooke made a wry
face) ; ' but manual labour promotes the flow
of ideas. Euskin and I both think that, and
Charlotte Bronze too : she said that she never
wrote so well as she did after she had been
black-leading a grate.'

There is a lady in the drawing-room who
wishes to see you, ma'am,' said the servant,
coming in at this moment.

Who is it ? ' asked Mrs. Brooke. John
did not know. The lady had asked if Mrs.
Brooke was at home, had come in, and had
refused to give her name. She was young and
pleasant-looking, and seemed to know the
family. 'You go, Olive,' said Mrs. Brooke.
I want to see this bit of work done, for after
to-day I can spend no more time on this room
I ought to be writing.'

But look at my dress,' said Olive. ' It is
not fit to be seen. It is dreadfully tumbled
with kneeling on the floor.' She was rubbing

the floor with a silk handkerchief. Mrs. Brooke
thought that better economy than ' employing
so many men to do things.' Her dress was
made of the butcher-blue linen which Hel-bonner
sells. It fitted . her as Pre-Eaphaelite
dresses do. It was long and plain, and confined
only by a band fastened by one of Aunt
Lettice's old buckles. Artists admired it,
and liked her hair as it was in a bushy fuzz,
but the taste and fashion of the day were dead
against them ; but that makes it sweet to wear
such raiment.

Oh, go as you are  you look very nice,
and people have no right to come so early ! '
said Mrs. Brooke, who steadily refused to
disturb herself. Olive ran down. A very fair,
smooth-complexioned, light-haired, blue-eyed,
calm-looking, and still handsome woman of
seven or eight-and-thirty rose to meet her as
she entered doubtfully, for lady visitors were
rare at 350 Harley Street. The stranger smiled
encouragingly, stepped forward gracefully, took
Olive in her arms, pressed her soft cheek against
hers by way of bestowing a kiss, and said, ' Dear
child, you do not know me  I am your mother.'

CHAPTEE IX.

Are these the breed of wits so wondered at ?

Love's Labours Lost.

Olive at once ran to tell Mrs. Brooke, and Mrs.
Brooke at once hurried to the doctor. ' Richards
said she in an urgent voice, ' Chesterfield's wife
is here ! here in the drawing-room with Olive !
I am just going to her, but please promise me
not to invite her to stay with us.'

Dr. Brooke looked as if he heard a singularly
unwelcome bit of news. He seemed
bewildered, and as if his thoughts were in the
past rather than the present. 'I invite her,
Selina ! ' said he at length.

Well, don't, dear, that's all ! I could not
have her here. I should not get a stroke of
work done if she were here.'

A loud peal of the bell warned Dr. Brooke
that he had no time for home life ; lout what

VOL. I. M

was his surprise at luncheon-time to find that
Selina herself had invited Lady Brooke to stay
with her until she had either found rooms or a
house ! Lady Brooke, in the quietest and
most natural manner possible, had conveyed to
Mrs. Brooke that she thought it a privilege
even to speak to a woman who had written
The Fateful Fortnight,' not to mention
Evelyn's Entanglement ' and ' The Ominous
Oath.' Lady Brooke could allude to scenes
and quote passages, and relate how the
Governor-general had made her pretty speeches
about being connected by marriage with such a
popular author, and then she could dwell on
the pleasure it had given her to see the reading
folks in India revelling in these books and to
find them even in Ceylon when she went therefor
a change. Lady Brooke asked to see the
study where her dear Selina wrote, condoled
with her on the interruptions of her daily life,
;and said what a privilege she should esteem it
if she could but be near her to ward ofi* some
of these attacks on her peace, and sometimes be
rewarded by hearing a freshly written chapter
read for the first time.

Oh, thank you,' cried Mrs. Brooke ; ' not
many women are like you. As a rule, they
take upon themselves to despise me! In fact,
the very worst of novel-writing is, that every
silly woman of your acquaintance, who could not
produce a book even to save her life, considers
that she is your superior because she does not
try to do it.'

Mrs. Brooke was a good deal won over by
her sister's sympathy, and as she was thoroughly
Alarm-hearted and liberal, and, besides that,
often in want of a listener, she ended by saying,
'- But do come here. Do stay here until you
have some settled place of residence.'

Lady Brooke explained that she had left her
husband for a while because of her health.
She had paid a flying visit to Lausanne and
her girls, had slept one night in Paris, and had
not written because she wanted to take Olive
by surprise, but now she was going to stay in
London for a while  perhaps even for a year.
The worst is, dear, that I am not well provided
with this world's wealth,' said she
Chesterfield gave me some hundreds, and
would have given me any sum I liked, but I

had not the heart to let him waste his money
on me.'

You Avon't take Ove from us ? '

I am afraid I must. I should like to go
into society a little with her, and then, I trust,
she will see some one whom she can love and
marry.'

Mrs. Brooke sighed and said, ' I have been
taking her into society. I have chosen what I
think you will agree with me in preferring to
any other  that of writers and painters.'

Did Lady Brooke make a wry face? If
she did, Mrs. Brooke did not see it, and Lady
Brooke made haste to say, ' Oh, charming ! I
am so glad you have taken her among people
worth knowing, the only people, in fact, who
are worth knowing. We in India have little
chance of seeing any interesting folks of this
kind. We have newspaper correspondents now
and then, or a man comes to see the sun do
something or other ; but except these we have
nothing beyond our usual set. It is a great
loss ! '

But,' said Mrs. Brooke innocently, * if you
care about society of this kind, why not go

with us to the Millennium Club? You will
see everyone there. There is a great mixture,
of course, and the entertainment is rather
rough, but everyone there is somebody.' Then
Mrs. Brooke explained that the Millennium was
a club of very advanced thinkers indeed, who
five or six times a year invited ladies to their
meetings and gave them oysters and sauterne,
or the more potent beverage of brandy and
soda-water. Lady Brooke's eyebrows arched
themselves a little, but she seemed very enthusiastic
about going. ' And now,' said Mrs.
Brooke, 'as John has taken a cab to bring
your maid and your luggage, come into my
study. We shall be alone all the afternoon, so
I can make a good beginning and read you the
novel I am now busy with. No one is likely to
interrupt us ; besides, I will take measures to
prevent it.'

That vill indeed be delightful ! ' cried
Lady Brooke, who began to repent having
accepted her sister-in-law's hospitality. ' Quite
too delightful ! ' Nature has a way of stepping
in when the human frame is undergoing a pain
which is too much for its power of endurance,

and rescuing us from its clutch by a timely fit
of unconsciousness. Lady Brooke may have
slept a little ; she could not have slept much,
for Mrs. Brooke, when reading, had a trick of
darting a glance in search of sympathy straight
into the eyes of her listener when any especially
admirable passage occurred, and in her estimation
this was frequently the case. They sat till
dinner, and then, alas ! when, worn out and
feeble, listener and reader sat down for physical
refreshment, the fish was not boiled,
because the man had just brought it ten minutes
before the dinner-hour. Mrs. Brooke had for a
fortnight been going to scold him for his un-punctuality,
and had always forgotten. The
meat, too, was half-roasted, because cook had
only got a fire at all by brushing up the last
shovelful of dust in the coal-cellar and using
that in combination with some dozens of firewood
which had been got in in a large quantity
as a measure of economy. Mrs. Brooke had
omitted to order coals. Then the pudding
had not set because there was no heat in the
oven, and finally a cheese soufilet came up
looking in no wise different from a badly made

baked batter pudding, ' and all because the
pore cook was so flustered like,' said John.
Dr. Brooke! pushed his plate away and said
it was not wanted. He was cross with his
wife, but presently he' had to go away to a
meeting.

Such things will happen,' said Mrs. Brooke
suavely. She considered it very unworthy of
people capable of immortality (by means of
literature) to care much for creature comforts.
I am not too tired to go on with our reading,
Honora,' said she, ' if you are not too tired to
listen ? '

I could listen for ever,' said Honora, and
they went to the study. Olive went off to the
piano in the drawing-room : she knew her
aunt's works by heart.

It was late before the reading was over.
Later than it ought to have been,' said Mrs.
Brooke, ' for we have to breakfast at eight. I
am sorry for you, but you see you have come
to stay with working folks.'

Next morning, Lady Brooke  who perhaps
found eight o'clock rather early  sent a message
to her hosts to say that, as she had a headache.

she would stay where she was  in bed, and
would only take a cup of tea.

She had her wish, and presently Mrs.
Brooke came with her MS. 'I don't mind
giving up the morning to read to you, dear, if
you think it will amuse you.'

How truly kind ! ' said Lady Brooke.
You won't mind my lying with my eyes shut ?
The light rather hurts them, you know.'

She did keep them rather tightly shut ; an
unfeeling enemy might have said that she was
asleep. So it went on all day, more or less.
Joys were rare, unless listening to MS. novels
was one.

'What about the Millennium?' said Mrs.
Brooke. ' Honora, are you well enough to
go?'

Oh yes, thank you,' said Lady Brooke, for
she knew that if she did not, Mrs. Brooke
would stay at home and read to her.

We won't be particular about dinner, as
Eichard is going out,' continued Mrs. Brooke.

Lady Brooke, judging from the evening
before, thought that she was not very particular

when he was in. She sighed gently, for it
was pleasant when people were particular.

How shall I dress, dear Selina ? I did get
a couple of dresses made while I was staying
in Paris ; but they are very plain ones.'

Mrs. Brooke did just notice that there was
a slight discrepancy between the fact that Lady
Brooke had had time to get two dresses made
in Paris, and the other fact, previously communicated,
that she had only slept there one night
to rest a little ; but Mrs. Brooke was a very
good, unsuspicious woman, and thought there
was a mistake somewhere ; so she only said,
'You can wear anything at the Millennium.
When Sister Ullathorne uses that carriage of
hers, which is seldom, she always says she puts
on a halfpenny head and a farthing tail, for no
one sees her skirts. That's the right way to doat
the Millennium, for no one likes to be too
well dressed there. You see, the people drop
bits of biscuit and sandwiches about, and throw
glasses of wine over you ; it is such a crowd,
and your dress gets so marked, it is spoilt.
Put on an old black dress. That's what I do.'
That is what Mrs. Brooke did, and her

sister-in-law did not like the effect ; and when
Olive came down in the last lunacy in artistic
attire, Lady Brooke shrank back in horror. It
was a horror which was speechless, or she
would have said, ' You are not going out such
a fright as that, child ? '

Yes, isn't it lovely ! ' cried Mrs. Brooke,
wholly misunderstanding the effect produced.
I never saw a sweeter bit of colour than she
is, and so artistic! I like those puffy sleeves
immensely.'

Only, they are not puffy enough,' said
Olive. ' What is the use of having puffy
sleeves, if they are not pujffier than everyone
else's ?

But,' cried Lady Brooke, ' do people wear
dresses of that kind ? I saw nothing like them
in Paris.'

The really artistic people wear them.
Olive has a dress you will like far better than
this. It cost nothing at all but the price of a
little silk for the pipings. It is made out of
two old scarves of her grandmother's, and
whenever she puts it on you have no idea how
it is admired. There never was a time when it

was so easy to dress. You really can wear
anything.'

But,' said Lady Brooke aghast, ' are you
really going out in that  that dress? Won't
people stare ? '

Oh dear, yes ! but when one knows how
beautiful the dress is '

'You see, I am fresh from an outlandish
country,' said Lady Brooke, who felt ready to
sink into the earth with dismay.

At first sight the Millennium did not seem
a place likely to be especially haunted by the
Muses. You entered a low doorway in a wide
and fashionable street, and made your way up
a narrow paved court. Then you climbed a
steep flight of stairs, and when you were halfway
up you heard the croaking roar of the human
voice in brisk general conversation. The
club room was quite full. Well-dressed and
ill-dressed people crowded beneath the large
centre gather  most of them standing. Pretty
women and clever men were there in plenty ;
Liberal M.P.s ; exiled Communists to whom
the right hand of fellowship  had been freely
extended ; leader-writers ; essayists ; poets.

young and old ; men who wrote in ' Mind,'
and women who read 'The World,' together
with ladies who wanted to have a share in
managing it ; reviewer and reviewed,  all
rubbing shoulders, and talking as if talk were
the first object of their existence.

Oh, good Heavens ! ' ejaculated Lady
Brooke, as, half-deafened with the din and
fainting with the heat, she sank into a chair
which had lost a foot.

Isn't it pleasant ? ' said Mrs. Brooke joyously.
' I'll tell you who all the people are.
It is a very good gathering to-night, I can see.'

Most striking faces ! ' said poor Lady
Brooke.

Yes ; you do not often get so many
remarkable people together in the same room.'

Lady Brooke groaned inwardly, for the
noise utterly bewildered her ; but she composed
her features to the semblance of a decent
smile.

Honora,' said Mrs. Brooke presently, ' do
you know that there are seven men in this
room who are under sentence of death  -ex-
Communists, you know ! '

Lady Brooke's most fervent wish was that
some one would quickly come and see that
the sentence was carried out. ' Indeed, dear ! '
she said drearily. It was getting too much for
her. She took a practical view of life. She
had a daughter to marry, and did not want to
select an ex-Communist, or any of the people
whom she saw there, unless they were better
off than they appeared to be.

Who is that talking to Olive ? ' she asked.

Sir John Ellerton,' said Mrs. Brooke, and
looked another way as if nothing more could be
said.

Lady Brooke did not think so.

'He seems to enjoy his conversation with
her,' she continued.

He always does. There is nothing in him,
though ; he is very stupid.'

But is he one of the Yorkshire Ellertons ? '

Yes.'

But they are all very rich? '

Yes. I fancy this young fellow has a very
large fortune. I am very glad of it, for, poor
fellow, he has nothing else to boast of

Lady Brooke was one of those persons who.

when they hear of anything good which seems
within their reach, immediately try to see if a
little of it cannot be induced to flow into a
channel which will benefit themselves. She
thought Selina an apathetic idiot, but she did
not say so. Her eyes turned to Olive and her
companion. They were three chairs off.

Selina, we ought to know something of a
young man who talks so much to Olive. Is
he '

Oh, he is a very good sort of fellow, but
so dull  at least, so unintellectual. He wanted
me to ask him to something or other at our
house, but I had not the courage. We should
have been bored to death. Each people are
always stupid, I think.'

Lady Brooke ran her eye meditatively over
her sister-in-law's face. Here was a woman
with a full complement of senses acting like an
idiot. The sight was so curious to her that she
lingered over it a moment before saying,

Introduce me to him, dear. Let me see
what he is like for myself.'

Sir John Egerton, a clear, bright-eyed,
handsome Saxon, looked kindly in the face of the

lady who was, as Olive's mother, so interesting
to him. He found a thousand things to say to
her which Mrs. Brooke would have cut short ina
moment as trivial and dull. Lady Brooke
thought his conversation as good as anyone
else's, and was very glad he did not talk of
books and book-makers. He had plenty to say,
though he did not discourse on high matters ;
and he was evidently a good, warm-hearted
fellow, and, what was still more important to
her, he had taken a great fancy to Olive.
What was to be done . If only Lady Brooke
had a house of her own, or even rooms to which
she could invite him, she would soon see that
this affair came to a proper and profitable conclusion
; even now she heard him fishing for an
invitation from the obtuse or obdurate Selina,
with a persistence which that lady totally disregarded
; and if she herself gave one, or found
an excuse for bringing him to call, there would
be a troop of high-art decorators in the only
room at liberty for his reception, or Selina
would tell her servant, ' Not at home to anyone
to day, John ; I can't be disturbed on any
account whatever.'

Did you not see that that young man was
doing his best to get your leave to call ? ' said
she.

Yes, I fancied he wanted an invitation ;
but what is the use of letting him come to our
house?  we are not in his way.'

But suppose he has a fancy for Olive ? '

What a pity it would be I I am sure she
would never care for him.'

Lady Brooke shrugged her shoulders. She
wished she had money enough to hire a nice
house at once. She had been two days with
her sister-in-law, and did not think she could
bear to stay many more.

CHAPTER X.

Had I but plenty of money, money enough and to spare,
The house for me, no doubt, were a house in the city square.

Egbert Browning.

Many who keep their chambers are not sick.

Pinion of Athens.

May I come in ? ' said Lady Brooke next day
as she tapped at the door of the sacred study.
I have not come to disturb you, dear Sehna ; I
would not run the risk of spoiling a chapter
for the world. I have only come to say that I
am going to pay my respects to Mrs. Ullathorne,
and I want to beg you to be very careful if you
see her, for  don't be shocked !  I am not
going to tell her that I have been in London
since Tuesday evening. I shall let her think I
came yesterday. I won't exactly say I did,
you know : but I dare not confess to Tuesday,
when I have kept away from her until to-day,
and it is Friday. She woukl never forgive me.'
Mrs. Brooke looked as if she did not under -

VOL. I. N

stand. She was not a manoeuvring woman, and
she was deep in a thrilling scene.

I only came to ask you not to betray me if
anything is said. I dare not offend Mrs.
UUathorne, Chesterfield would never forgive
me if I did,' added Lady Brooke.

I never see her,' said Mrs. Brooke. ' At
least, very seldom. She won't ask me when
you came.'

Well, leave it vague if she does. I must
go. I wish I could stay with you. I should
like nothing better than to sit down, pen in hand,
and let you dictate to me some of the beautiful
thoughts I can see your mind is full of. Goodbye.
I won't waste more of your time. I wish
Mrs. Ullathorne would take it into her head to
go into the country, and let me have that nice
house of hers rent-free.'

I wish she would,' thought Doctor Brooke
who came in at this moment and heard the
aspiration. He did not like Lady Brooke.
He had been a changed man since she came into
the house  watchful, constrained, and silent.

What do you want, dear ? ' said Mrs.
Brooke, when alone with Lier husband ; ' I am in

the middle of something so important, and do
so want to get on. Honora thinks she does
not disturb me, but she does.'

You won't have Honora long. You heard
her say that she wished to have Mrs. Ullathorne's
house, and depend upon it, if that is the case,
she will soon have it. Honora has an odd knack
of getting her own way. If you were a wise
woman, Sehna, you would not go on spinning
characters out of your own brain when you
have that woman in the house to study from.
She is wily, insinuating, unfathomable  I wish
she was out of my house ! '

Oh dear Eichard, how wrong you are !
wily, insinuating, unfathomable." She is as
simple-minded and straightforward a woman as
I have ever seen, quite natural and open  she
has a kind manner, that's all. I am a novel-writer,
and have to study character, so I ought
to know. I can't think what makes you take
against her so ; besides when she does go, she
will take Olive with her ; don't forget that.'

Dr. Brooke sighed and said, ' This has come
so suddenly. I knew we should have to part
with Olive some day, but one does not like to

give her up to that woman ; it is a sin to let
her have the keeping of the child  a sin and a
shame. I have a great mind to resist it.'

Impossible ! And, Eichard, you are unjust
to her ; she is very kind, and '

Dr. Brooke would not listen to any praise
of Honora ; he ran away without explaining the
business that had brought him, and Mrs.
Brooke sighed and said to herself, ' If only
husband, and house, and children, and friends
would abate their tormenting power for one
short half-year, I could write a book which
would prove that I had a perfect right to ask to
have my time to myself ; but it is of no use to
wish for such a thing.'

Lady Brooke went straight to Mrs. Ulla-thorn's,
and as she drove up the Bayswater
Road her eyes rested longingly on the handsome
houses which rear their tall height by its
side, and her mind was filled with visions of
all that she could do if one of these were but
placed at her disposal for a time with a suitable
income. ' How the want of money checks one
at every turn ! ' thought she. ' And I dare say
the people who live in these houses, and have

more of it than they know how to spend, don't
make one half quarter so much use of their
chances as I should The Lancaster Gate
houses were rather large, but still she could
have made one do ; the Saint Catherine's Villas
were rather small, but not too small for a
clever managing woman like herself. ' It
would be such a comfort,' thought she, ' if I
could marry off Olive while I am here. It
would put an end to all Chesterfield's worrying.
I must make a great effort to do so. I do not
see why there should be any difficulty about it.
She is very pretty, and people seem to find her
charming. I wonder she has not got engaged
long since. It would have been curious enough
to see the husband Selina would have chosen for
her. I should most likely have had to dismiss
him.' While occupied by these thoughts, she
reached Kensington Square. A sulky-looking
parlour-maid opened the door and took her upstairs.
Mrs. Ullathorne was sitting on one side
of the fire and Miss Cochrane on the other.
They were talking in a very excited manner
about something or other, and one  the one who
dared to do it  turned an irate eye on Lady

Brooke for thus disturbing them. ' My dear
sister Mary,' cried Lady Brooke, ' I have not lost
a moment in coming to you. Chesterfield said,
See all my family, Honora, but see my sister
Mary first." Poor Chesterfield ! He does not
forget.'

Oh indeed ! ' said Mrs. Ullathorne. ' So
you are here. Lady Brooke ! Well, why have
you left your husband ?

'My health gave vay. Sooner or later,
everyone feels that Indian climate. But I shall
not stay long in England, I shall soon rejoin my
husband.'

Two or three inquiries followed, but Mrs.
Ullathorne evidently took little or no interest in
Chesterfield or in the state of his wife's health.
You look radiant,' said she, resolved to treat the
matter exhaustively ; ' you say you are ill, but
here in England, when people say they are ill,
they don't look like that. Now, I am ill, really
ill, and am likely to be worse  much worse.
Troubles and vexations vexations and troubles,
and people taking a pjirt against me who ought
to be the very first to stand between me and
all annoyance '  here she darted a crushing

glance at Miss Cochrane. ' It's the way of the
world, I suppose ; I was always told that if I
wanted to be ill-treated, the best way to secure
what I wanted was to be very kind to someone,
for the people you were the kindest to
were always the first to turn against you ! I
never believed it before, but now I see it is true.'

It is not true ! ' cried Miss Cochrane.
You are unjust to me.'

'I am not unjust. I am ill-used and
worried and driven out of my very senses by
servants and all the vexation that having them
implies, and you. Miss Cochrane, you always
take a part against me  you are always on the
servants-side, that you are ! '

Miss Cochrane began to weep silently ;
Mrs. UUathorne looked angrily at her and continued:
'Well, I shan't be here long, that's a
comfort  the only comfort that I can see.'

My dear, dear Mary,' cried Lady Brooke,
what is the matter ? Tel me. I am sure
poor Miss Cochrane is most anxious to please
you.'

I bought a vault for myself at Finchley
the other day,' said this Juggernaut of a woman,

still driving on, ' and it won't be long before I
am in it, and then many who shall be nameless
will wish that they had behaved differently
while there was time to do so ; that they will,
to a certainty.'

'Oh, do stop,' implored Miss Cochrane, but
Mrs. UUathorne would not. ' Stop, please
stop,' again wailed the companion ; but when,
on the contrary, she saw Mrs. UUathorne's lips
begin to move despitefully, she ran in her despair
towards the door.

Now, if you meet that woman, be so kind
as not to go on taking a part against me,' cried
Mrs. UUathorne, pursuing her with one last
shot. Mournful sobs followed this final act of
aggression. Mrs. UUathorne sniffed angrily,
and turned to Lady Brooke and said, ' I don't
like relations, but perhaps even relations are
better than companions !  humble companions
who put their nasty little horns out behind
your back when they think they can do it
safely. I'll never forgive Bessie Cochrane ! I
would tell her to pack her boxes and go, only
I am so afraid of being left quite alone, and
she knows that, and presumes  actually presumes

 to take the servants' side. Servants
are never in the right. It is nonsense to say
they are ; they are not educated.'

Of course it is nonsense,' said Lady Brooke,
who did so wonder what all this meant.

I never had a better servant than that
woman who opened the door to you,' said Mrs.
Ullathorne. ' Never ! I hate her, but she is a
good servant. She is as punctual as clockwork
thoroughly clean  quick, clever, and kind 
and if she goes, I shoidd not know what to do.
Besides, that is not the worst ; she and the
cook are sisters  they came together, and
they'll leave together ; and if they do, I'll give
up housekeeping and have no more servants,
for before these came I never had a moment's
peace  no, never ! Dirty, wrangling, thieving
women came into the house and made me uncomfortable
for a week or two, and then went
away, and worse came in their place I No, if
they go, I'll sell my house and furniture and
live in an hotel  I will indeed.'

But Thy do you think they are going ? '

I am sure they will go. I offended them
his morning before luncheon, and they are

only waiting to see me alone to give me notice.
That parlour-maid will give me notice this
afternoon, and the cook tomorrow morning,
and Bessie Cochrane is on their side ! '

Oh,, but if you want to keep them we must
stop them going,' said Lady Brooke. ' Tell me
more about it, and I will see what can be done.
I am very clever at contriving.'

I always thought you must be, or you
would never have caught Chesterfield,' was on
the tip of Mrs. UUathorne's tongue, but self-interest
restrained her : nothing else would
have done so. 'I'll tell you what happened.
It was such a little silly, simple thing. I was
getting something out of a closet near the head
of the back stairs this morning, when a most
delicious smell of cooking came upstairs. It
was so good that I could not help saying to
that sulky woman who let  ou in  she was
helping me to look for something  " Oh what"
a good smell ! What nice things they are
cooking in the kitchen ! I do hope that they
mean to let me have a taste of them ! " And
she sniffed and tossed her head indignantly,
and I saw in a moment I had said something

wrong, and she cried out that she was " quite
sure no cooking was done that I was not aware
of, and that it was very unpleasant to be suspected,
and I was always suspecting one or
other of them ; however, she should make a
point of going downstairs at once and asking
her sister what she had been cooking, and if it
was anything I had not ordered." I begged
her not to do this, but she said, " Good old
servants that had been five years in a house
hadn't ought to be suspected of doing things
underhanded. That there wasn't no credit in
serving suspicious ladies who went sniffing
about to know what the kitchen dinner was.
That she, for her part, didn't care how soon
she made a change in her servitude, and that
she'd be bound for it her sister would feel the
same ; " and so she mil,' said Mrs. Ullathorne,
and I am miserable about it, for the cook is
the best cook I ever had in the house, and they
are both as good women as ever lived.'

Say that you think so  they will soon forgive
you.'

No, that is not my way. I can scold a
person when it is needful, but I don't like to

run and put a patch on next minute. I can't
lower myself in that way.'

Lady Brooke was silent a moment; she
was puzzled.

Miss Cochrane came creeping in, the unwilling
bearer of bad news.

Mary has just gone out, I was looking
out of the window in the dining-room, and saw
her go, looking very black and determined.'

She has gone to the registry-office,' cried
Mrs. Ullathorne  ' gone to seek a place, and
has left the kitchen maid to spoil our dinner.'

I met Hannah on the stairs a minute
since, and she begged me to ask you if you
would kindly speak to her for eve minutes in
the breakfast-room, if Lady Brooke was spending
the afternoon.'

She wants to give me notice. What an
unfortunate woman I am ! Honora, can't you
help me ? I'd give five hundred pounds to
keep them.'

Less would do it,' said Lady Brooke.

I can't humble myself.'

No, you can't ; leave all to me. I have
an idea. Miss Cochrane, will you kindly contrive

to see Hannah, if that is her name. Do
not say you gave her message to Mrs. UUa-
thorne, but say that her mistress looks very
ill  very ill indeed. Please say that, and
appear very much alarmed. Do it well.'

Stow we must act a little,' said Lady Brooke,
when she was gone ; ' pretend a little, I mean.'

I don't understand. I can't act or tell lies,'
said Mrs. UUathorne.

Who can ? ' cried Lady Brooke, aghast.
I would not on any account do such a thing.
You must just pretend to be ill. When servants
think you are ill, they are angels. Have you
never noticed that? They won't say an unpleasant
word to you if you follow my advice.'

I am ill  there need be no pretence about
that  very ill. This has quite upset me  quite ! '

Well, then, lie down on your bed. I will
cover you with rugs and draw the blinds down,
and Miss Cochrane will keep the door locked,
and see that no one disturbs you.'

Oh no, I can't do that ! Besides, they
will only give me notice tomorrow instead
of to-day.'

I'll secure you against that.'

Oh, no, no. I realLy-but

at this moment Miss Cochrane came
nervously in and said, ' Hannah knows you are
ill, and she still wants to see you. She says
she won't detain you more than five minutes.
Not when Lady Brooke is here, of course.
She will wait till she leaves.'

But I can't leave when Mrs. Ullathorne is
feeling so ills said Lady Brooke. ' I am going
to get her to lie down a. while. Will you
please send off one of the under servants in a
cab for the doctor ? Tell her to make the
greatest possible haste.'

Miss Cochrane went.

Mrs. Ullathorne looked obstinate.

What is the use of this ? They can easily
wait till tomorrow. They can say all they
want to say in the morning.'

But get the doctor to order you abroad
for two or three months. They will like being
left alone in the house, and the moment they
hear that there is a prospect of it they will say
no more about leaving you, and when you
come home you can go on as if this had never
happened.'

What a clever woman you are ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Ullathorne.

Oh no ! I am only straining every nerve
to help you. If we can but keep them both
away from you until the doctor has ordered
you to go from home, all danger is over. I am
quite sure they won't give up their places after
they have heard that. You must be quick,
though. We must act a little.'

Bessie Cochrane will tell them. She is
in league with them,' cried Mrs. Ullathorne,
though she did not quite believe what she was
saying.

Then, we will only tell her what we want
them to know,' said Lady Brooke composedly.

Oh, you clever woman ! you clever, bad
woman ! ' thought Mrs. Ullathorne.

To lie down on a bed and look ill involved
no acting on her part. She did feel ill, though
she would not have dreamed of going to bed
unless Lady Brooke had proposed it, nay, more,
had not talked her into feeling more and more
of an invalid in real earnest. She looked
wretchedly ill when Lady Brooke had arranged
her a little, with a white handkerchief round
her forehead, and had darkened the room.

Preston, Mrs. TJUatliorne's maid, was own
cousin to Mary the cook and her sister. Lady
Brooke kept her out of the way, therefore,
until all preparations were made. Then she
was brought and saw her usually truculent
mistress lying thus, pale, faint, and apparently
speechless.

'She seems very ill,' said Lady Brooke,
taking her aside. ' She says she wants to be
left quiet until the doctor comes ; but I wish
you would stay with me ; I am afraid to be
alone with her, Preston. I know she likes you
about her. She often named you in her letters
to Lydia. She seems to think so very highly of
you.'

Keeps her fine words for her letter writing,
then, as it seems,' said the aggrieved Preston.
I am sure I don't know about her high opinion
of any of us. It is just the other way, I think ! '

Oh, don't mind a sharp speech now and
then,' replied Lady Brooke. ' She has a high
opinion of you, I am sure.'

'Well I am not going to say anything to
put her about to-day when she is ill, but tomorrow
morning me, and Hannah, and Mary the

cook, we are all going to give her a rnontli's
notice ; we are resolved.'

Well, you must do as you like, of course,
but say nothing to-day, She is not a young
woman, you know ! Sometimes a very slight
illness turns out very seriously with a person of
her age. We are all here to-day and gone tomorrow,
and if you were unkind to her, and
then found she had died, leaving you all large
legacies, it would be very painful to you.
Persons of her ample fortune generally do provide
for their servants, and I imagine you will
find yourselves well remembered.'

The doctor came. Lady Brooke saw him,
gave him his cue, and took him into the darkened
room, where Preston sat on one side of
the bed and Miss Cochrane on the other. He
uttered a number of medical commonplaces
which seemed to mean a great deal ; said he
was glad he had been sent for at once, for he
could, he thought, ward off all danger, and
further declared that, if Mrs. Ullathorne could
but go abroad a while, she would soon be herself
again. Kreuznach was the place he recommended.
Could Mrs. Ullathorne start in a day

VOL. I.

or two  the sooner the better ? It was of the
utmost importance that she should lose no time.

Mrs. Ullathorne looked at Preston.

You can soon prepare your mistress's
things, I know,' said he encouragingly. ' And
you, madam  you can go ? You have no
arrangements to make which need detain you
here ? You have trustworthy people in the
house ? '

Oh, most trustworthy,' replied Mrs. Ulla-thorn.


That did not seem strong enough to Lady
Brooke, who said, ' My sister has been telling
me how fortunately she is situated. She has
two sisters who have been with her a long time,
and she could leave her house for any length
of time without the least anxiety  they are so
thoroughly to be trusted. Did you not say so,
Mrs. Ullathorne ? '

Yes, I did. It is quite true  thoroughly
true.'

Very few are so fortunate,' said the doctor.

The maid's face grew brighter, and he
continued :

Then you will go to Kreuznach, and st ay

there till you feel better? I will give you
something which will cure you of this attack,
but you won't be really well without a thorough
change. I do not mean to confine you to
Kreuznach. After you have been there a while
you might go somewhere else. I suppose you
will be in no hurry to get home ? '

Oh dear no ! I am very fond of travelling
when once I get away.'

So that was settled, and he went, and
Preston escorted him to the door.

'But if those two Avoient still give me
notice ? ' said Mrs. UUathorne. She spoke very
feebly ; Lady Brooke's little bit of acting had
had a most comical effect on her : she now
firmly believed that she had narrowly escaped
an extremely dangerous illness.

Oh, they won't. They will be only too
glad to have a holiday. Just think what a fine
thing for them your going away will be ! They
will practically be the mistresses of this charming
house, and will have no work to do.'

I like people to have work to do,' growled
Mrs. UUathorne faintly.

Well, I dare say it is better, both for their


bodies and minds ; but if they have none, they
can do none.'

Presently Mrs. UUathorne looked up and
said, ' I have been thinking over all you have
been saying about their enjoying their holiday
so much and being mistresses of this house.'

Yes, poor things ! it will be a nice rest for
them.'

I like what we have done so far as keeping
them is concerned, but I don't like the idea of
leaving this house so completely at their mercy.
They could fill it with their own friends if they
liked  no one would ever know.'

There is that to consider. But you trust
them so implicitly.'

Hem ! Only so far  I trust no one
thoroughly : that's the best way.'

Then it does seem a pity we have arranged
this, for of course you leave a great deal in
their power.'

'I don't think I'll go. Dangerous as it
may be for me to disobey the doctor's orders, I
really do not think I'll go,' said Mrs. UUathorne.

Then they will.'

Oh, dear ! is all that to begin again ? '

Is there no one whom you could ask to
stay here  who would see that they went on
quietly and took care of your house and furniture
? Would the Eaymonds do ? They come
up to town, don't they ? '

Mrs. Ullathorne forgot she was an invalid,
and started up.

Honora ! I have not quite taken leave of my
senses ! The Eaymonds would be worse than any
amount of bad servants ! They would destroy
everything I have in the house ; they would
dance in it, and smoke, and alter the furniture.
No, whatever it costs me, I'll not leave home.'

There is Selina. She could come here
once or twice a week and see how things were
going on.'

Scribbling goose ! Do you think her
supervision would be valuable ? '

Dr. Brooke might have some patient who
would take your house for a month or two.'

Mrs. Ullathorne shook her head. ' I will
stay where I am. I'll not leave home.'

Would you like me to come here while
you are away ? I was intending to pay a series
of visits, but I would gladly give them up if I

could be of any service to you. Would it make
you more comfortable to have me here ? '

'That might do,' said Mrs. Ullathorne
doubtfully ; ' but you woidd run away to your
visits as soon as my back was turned, and leave
the house to take care of itself.'

Oh, no, dear ; I promise you, if I come, I
will never go away for more than a day or two,
and not at all if you object. I should hive very
quietly, of course  very  I have no power
of doing otherwise. Chesterfield and I have
children to provide for.'

Well,' said Mrs. Ullathorne benignly, ' if
you decide on doing me this favour, I shall
be very much obliged to you  very. I won't
forget it.'

 Oh, I would gladly do more than that for
you.'

And you will keep a sharp look-out on the
servants ?  the best of them require that.
These are good enough  admirable in someways
 but you never know.'

No, indeed, you never know,' said Lady
Brooke, and Mrs. Ullathorne thought her a
most sensible woman.

You had better not say anything to them
about my coming, until after you have left.
Write to them from Paris. If they don't give
you notice tomorrow, they won't do it at all.
I'll take care to do nothing to put them in a
bad humour.'

I pay their wages, of course, while I am
away,' said Mrs. Ullathorne, ' and I should
have had to give them board wages, so you
must allow me to pay your housekeeping too.
You had better let the cook provide all you
want, and it can go into my account with her.
She is economical and full of contrivance, so it
will make very little difference to me at the
end of the year.'

Very little difference to Mrs. Ullathorne,
but all the difference to Lady Brooke, who was
by no means able to Hve as she liked.

You are sure, Honora, that you won't
discover in a week or two that you have made
an arrangement that is very inconvenient to
you ? I want you to be quite sure you can
go through with this.'

I am quite sure. I am certain.'

She was certain And well she might befor

she had been gradually leading Mrs. Ulla-thorn
to make her this offer ever since she
entered the house.

And now I have got a good house over my
head, and good servants and food provided for
the next few months, I ought to make some
use of my luck, and I will try,' said Lady
Brooke to herself as she went home. She
frisked into the study  what were pen-and-ink
heroines to her now, that she should feel for
them ? She frisked gaily in and said, ' I am
going to keep Mrs. UUathorne's house for her.
She is ordered abroad for her health, and I am
going to Kensington Square till she comes
back.'

Olive, who was copying a MS., looked up ;
she was afraid she would have to go too.

You won't take my Olive away ? ' said
Mrs. Brooke, who loved her niece dearly.

I will ! I must ! I shall ! '

When Dr. Brooke heard what had happened,
he asked for five minutes' conversation with
Lady Brooke. ' I have not much to say,' said
he, when she appeared, 'but Selina tells me
that you wish to take Olive away from us for a

while. She is like our own child now, and I
almost think we might have been allowed to
keep her. Chesterfield insists on it, I hear.'

Lady Brooke, who was never quite at her
ease with Dr. Brooke, showed him a letter
from Chesterfield in which he said, ' I wish
you to take Olive to live with you while in
England. Thank Eichard and Senna most
heartily for the great kindness which they have
shown her, but tell them that we must now
resume the care of her. I feel strongly on
this point, as you know, and must be imperative
in my request.'

He need not be so,' observed Dr. Brooke
with much suppressed feeling. ' He might
have left her here. She is like a child of our
own to us, and it would have been better for all
concerned.'

Lady Brooke did not speak. She perhaps
thought her husband's letter had spoken for
her.

Well, I have one request to make, Lady
Brooke,' (he never called her Honora). ' Promise
me most solemnly that you will keep from
Olive all knowledge of certain circumstances

(you know what I refer to) which would give
her pain. We have always done so. She
knows nothing of them. Promise this solemnly.'
I do promise most solemnly. She shall
never learn them from me.'

CHAPTER XI.

With silken coats, and caps, and golden rings,
With ruins, and cuffs, and farthingales and things ;
With scarfs, and fans, and double change of bravery,
With amber bracelets, beads, and all this knavery.

Taming of the Shrew.

I WISH your Aunt Ullathorne had felt it to
be one of her duties to buy you four or five
pretty dresses,' said Lady Brooke, one day,
soon after she had taken up her abode in Kensington
Square.

But I have just had two new ones,' said
Ohve. ' They were made the week before you
came home.'

Oh, you can't wear those lor I mean,

those dresses would not look well here. You
require a Pre-Eaphaelite house to make a 
dress look well,' said Lady Brooke,
who was careful not to be too outspoken. 'I
must see what I can do for you. I wish your

papa would get into the habit of writing larger
cheques for me.'

Mrs. Raymond was coming to luncheon.
She had been spending Easter in Eome, and
had just returned. She entered while they
were speaking. ' You can't think, Honora,'
said she, ' what a weight your being here removes
from me. It is so dreadful to know
that coming to London means going to see my
sister Ullathorne. I would rather walk ten
miles than do that, and I hate walking.'

All the time Mrs. Raymond, was speaking,
her eyes were straying to Olive. Presently
that young lady left the room. ' Honora,' said
Mrs. Raymond hesitatingly, ' I want to say
something to you, but before I do so will you
answer one question ? '
Yes.'

How do you like Olivers style of dress ? '
I do not like it at all. I can't endure it ! '
'Then, I need not be afraid to speak.
What I wished to say was this : I think it
perfectly hideous ! Dressed as she is, I would
not be seen with her for any money! It is
Selina's taste, I suppose  '

Lady Brooke made a rapid sign in the
affirmative. She could not trust herself to
speak of this family misfortune.

Well, I recommend you to make a bundle
of all Olive's dresses and to treat them as Carlyle
is said to treat his pipes.'

'How?'

They say he allows himself the indulgence
of a new pipe every day, but as he does not
like to throw the discarded one quite away, he
always puts it on the step of his door at night
it is gone in the morning.'

Ah, how I should like to do that ! But
how am I to re-equip her? Dresses cost
money. Would you believe it !  I only
afforded myself two when I was in Paris, and
they were nothing to look at, but they came to
more than a hundred and twenty pounds ! '

I know,' murmured Mrs. Raymond feelingly
; ' and men think that we can look well
for nothing. I suppose you want to get Olive
married ? '

Yes ; Chesterfield is very anxious to do all
he can for her. I hope she will marry.'

I do not wonder at your wishing it. It is

extremely desirable for a girl situated as she is
to get married as quickly as possible.'

Upon this the 'two ladies had some private
and confidential conversation, during the course
of which they made an arrangement for next
day which resulted in Lady Brooke's saying
to Olive next morning, ' I want you to look
your very best. Aunt Raymond is coming for
us at two o'clock. Be ready to go out with
her when she comes, and please take great
pains with your appearance. Let me see : put
on that navy-blue dress, and calm down your
hair a little.'

Where are we going ? '

You will see when the time comes. Runaway
and get ready, and don't hurry your
operations.'

Mrs. Raymond came. She inspected Olive
most carefully. She altered her hair a little,
gave some amicable twists and turns to such
articles of attire as were movable, bade her get
into the carriage, and said, ' She must not sit
with her back to the horses, Honora  not in
going, I mean ; that often makes even a good-looking
girl turn so white that she seems positively

plain.' So Olive was judiciously placed,
and they set out. She felt that the eyes of these
two ladies were fixed on her without intermission.
They were criticising her most minutely
and weighing her in some worldly balance. To
what distinguished personage was she about to
be presented ? ' Do say where we are going,'
said she imploringly.

To make a call,' was the only answer she
obtained.

Can you come with me for one moment to
Madame Filoselle's ? ' said Mrs. Raymond ; ' I
want to speak to her, but I won't keep you a
moment. Exmoor Street is not out of your
way.'

Of course we will come. We like going
to a milliner's  don't we, Olive ? You and I
have not the talent to write books like dear
Aunt Selina ; we must have some employment
for our minds.'

They rang at Madame Filoselle's bell, and
were shown into a handsome drawing-room,
where there was little to reveal that lady's
calling but two or three books of patterns
bound in Russia-leather. Mrs. Raymond said

a few words about some dress she had ordered,
and then she drew Ove into conversation.
Olive was turning over a book of patterns.

Which would you like, if you were asked
to choose a dress for yourself? '

This,' said Olive, pointing to a pretty
creamy white texture, something between silk
and gauze.

If I had been asked to choose a very
becoming dress for Mademoiselle, that is the
very dress I should have picked out,' said
Madame Filoselle.

Ohve looked at it regretfully. Such dresses
were for the rich and great. ' And that is
pretty too,' said she. This time it was a nondescript
willowy-green.

Very pretty,' cried all three.

But they are all pretty,' said Olive ; ' far
too pretty to look at unless one is able to
choose two or three of them.'

She put the pattern-book down.

The milliner was watching her as narrowly
as the two ladies had done erewhile.

Couldn't I have a bonnet like my new
dress ? ' said Mrs. Raymond. ' I must be en suite.

Have you any bonnets I could look at to see
which shape I had better decide on ? '

She carelessly strolled into the other room
as she spoke, and though she was passing a series
of bonnets in review, Olive saw that she was
talking earnestly all the while. Presently by a
slight gesture she summoned Lady Brooke.

Sit still, Olive,' said that lady. ' Aunt
Raymond wants me for a moment, I see ; but I
would rather you stayed here. Best, dear.'

Oh, for the formidable interview which
lies before me,' thought Olive. ' I was beginning
to forget about. that.'

She Watched her mother and the two others
as they talked and fingered the bonnets. After
a while they left the room.

Madame Filoselle was the first to return.

We have been arranging about a dress for
you, mademoiselle. One of my ladies will take
your measure.'

A dress for me ! ' cried Olive, astonished,
for she had had a great many of late.

Yes, mademoiselle. Pretty ladies look all
the prettier when they have well-made dresses.'

The ' lady ' came, and in a minute or so

VOL. I. p

Olive's measure was taken. A tape round her
shoulders, a tape round her waist, another to
give the length of her arm, and the thing was
done.

And now sign your name here, mademoiselle,'
said Madame Filoselle  'here, at the
bottom of this page.'

What this page contained Olive knew not,
for a piece of blotting-paper hid it. She looked
inquiringly at her mother.

It is usual, dear,' said Mrs. Raymond, and
Olive signed, and then her mother and Mrs.
Raymond added their names. After this they
left, and Mrs. Raymond and Lady Brooke
seemed to forget about the call, the prospect of
which was now once more so alarming to Olive,
and ordered the coachman to turn into the
park. Olive was glad of the respite, and
soon forgot her fears. It was late in April,
and the weather had been very cold that year.
All the buds had been long in coming out, but
were now thrusting forth their tender heads and,
seen from afar, looked like a delicate golden-green
mist. ' How pretty it used to be at
Austeriield when the buds first began to come

out, and how delighted WiUie and I used to be
with them ! How we used to like to pick the
sticky little sycamore leaves out of their rosy
pink sheaths ! How tightly they were packed
up ! I believe WiUie and I could have sat all
day peeping into the little contrivances flowers
and leaves have for taking care of themselves.
After all, it was a very nice way of spending
our time. I have never been so happy since.
I wish ' Here Olive's meditations were interrupted,
for she was struck by the repetition of
the word ' court dresses.' ' Court dresses !
What were they talking about ? Court dresses
for whom ? '

You say you will get yours from Paris,'
said Mrs. Raymond, ' and I think you are right,
if your woman is in the habit of making for you ;
but Olive's will have to be made by Madame
Filoselle. I dare say she will do it as well as
anyone.'

/ going to court ! ' cried Ohve.

Hush ! ' cried Lady Brooke. ' Don't begin
to talk about it until it is all arranged.'

Olive felt herself snubbed, and turned away
to look at her buds again ; but she should not

confine her thoughts to them as before, and
when she tried to divert them to Chesterfield
and WiUie, it did not seem so nice to sit and
pick sticky sycamore leaves out of their protecting
pink sheaths as it had been before court
dresses were spoken of. She felt bewildered.
A visit to court seemed to her a thing as much
out of the question as a visit to fairyland, for
never before had she been with people who
would have given a word or a thought to such
a thing. Suddenly the carriage stopped at a
dull house in a dull street. ' Now I must look
my best ! ' thought Ohve ; ' this is the place.'
But no one seemed to care how she looked,
and the lady whom they were visiting was all
but blind. Then they hurried home, for they
were going out to dine.

Early next morning Olive was informed
that a ' lady ' had come from Madame Filoselle's
to fit her with some stays.

*I don't want stays,' cried she; 'I have
never worn them till lately. Mine are new.'

Madame Filoselle won't make dresses for
people who wear ill-fitting stays. Eun away.
She thinks all ill-fitting but her own. Let the

woman who tries them on say which you are to
have. She knows better than you.'

OUve obeyed.

I expect a parcel coming while I am
here,' said the 'lady.' 'Madame Filoselle
wishes you to select your underclothing from the
parcel of things she is submitting to you. She
Lavishes me to stay and give you any assistance in
my power in helping you to make your choice.'

Who is going to pay for all this ? ' was
Olive's thought : but she did not like to give it
utterance.

Don't you think there is some mistake ? '
she said. ' I don't believe that mamma ordered
anything but a dress.'

No, mademoiselle, there is no mistake.
Madame Filoselle told me to come to-day, and
she said I was to be sure to see that you chose
a becoming outfit.'

Outfit? Where am I going? '

Into the world, miss. Young ladies always
want a complete set of new things when once
they begin to go into society.'

Ohve thought she was dreaming. Was she,
who had never known any life but a quiet one,

who was familiar with nothing but the dull
house in Harley Street and the hedgerows of
Austerfield, to be suddenly transplanted and
live in the full glitter of the sun ?

A large parcel arrived. Two servants
tottered under its weight as it came upstairs.
Olive's garments had been rather plain. These
were embroidered, and trimmed, and daintily
finished. ' They can't be meant for me,' said
she, full of wonder at their fineness and elaboration
of ornament.

'Oh, yes; there is no mistake, I assure
you,' said the ' lady ' ; and then she pulled out a
notebook and pencil, and laid them on the table,
ready to write down each article which was to
be ordered. There were about half-a-dozen
different specimens of each article of wearing
apparel, and as Olive's choice was made, one
dozen of each'was inscribed in the ' lady's ' book.
Besides these, there were boxes of pocket-handkerchiefs
of various degrees of fineness, stockings,
gloves, sleeves, collars, and habit-shirts.

It is absurd of me to go on ordering things ! '
cried Ohve  ' quite absurd ! We are only
wasting our time, for I am sure there is some

mistake.' And she rang the bell, and sent the
maid who answered it, to bring Lady Brooke
without delay.

It is all right,' said that lady reassuringly,
Your Aunt Selina was very kind and sweet to
you, but she was not the-best person to equip a
young girl for her introduction to society, for
she has no idea what is wanted. Don't look so
frightened, Ohve. You are not going to have
such an overpowering number of new things,
after all ! Madame Filoselle is only going to
send you a complete set of clothing. She and
I have taken you in hand, and we are going to
reform you from head to foot.'

But such handsome, good things ! I
thought I was to be economical.'

Lady Brooke smiled. ' Let this person who
is helping you have her way, dear. You are
in good hands

The ' lady ' was half amused, half impatient.
She showed Lady Brooke what had been
already ordered, and said, ' The rest of the
things will come tomorrow.'

So they did. Next day came bonnets, hats,
and flowers for the hair. ' I feel like an exhausted
receiver ! ' cried Olive, who knew something

of scientific expressions from her uncle,
but was vague in her method of using them.
A mantle and shawl followed, and last came,
not the one willowy-green dress which Olive
expected, but the white one also, trimmed with
silk and lilies of the valley, and white butterflies
for her hair ; and the box was by no
means empty when these two dresses were taken
out, for beneath them were a pretty light blue
cashmere, and another evening dress. In short,
Olive now had everything she could possibly
wear or wish to wear for some time to come.
She went with her mother to Madame Filoselle,
and that lady was justly enchanted with the
transformation she had worked. Olive resigned
herself to the possession of all these lovely
things  she whose wardrobe had once been so
circumscribed had now pretty dresses for all
occasions, and bonnets or headgear of the
lighter sort, and shoes, gloves, nay, even fans to
match them. ' Mother,' said she one day, ' you
are far too generous to me. I could very well
have worn some of my old things ; they were
quite good still. You don't buy one quarter
so many things for yourself as you do forme.'


Of course not ! ' said Lady Brooke ; ' it
would be very strange if I did.'

Olive looked inquiringly.

You silly child, don't you understand what
a pleasure it is to me to see you look pretty
and hear you admired ? When is the next
Millennium soiree ? '

Poor mamma ! you did not enjoy that
evening.'

'I don't know. I should like to go to
another. Let us go and see your Aunt Selina,
and ask her to take us with her. Put on one
of your Pre-Eaphaelite dresses, my dear. You
may as well wear those things out in private
life. We are not going anywhere else. It will
conciliate her.'

Mrs. Brooke was in trouble. Her husband
was very ill. He had been working too hard,
and had had a strong warning that his brain
would not stand such undue exertion. He was
ordered abroad for a thorough rest and change,
and was advised to go at once.

We are both going,' said Mrs. Brooke. ' I
am glad now that Olive is with you, for we
could not very well have taken her, and I
should not have known where to leave her.

He is really very ill, Honora. I am very
anxious

You must be. So am I  most anxious.
Selina, could you give us tickets for the next
soiree at the Millennium ? '

Mrs. Brooke did not notice her scanty sympathy
; did not wonder at her asking for an
invitation to a place where she hated to go ;
never dreamed that she wanted to see Sir John
Ellerton again in order to ask him to visit her
in Kensington Square. Mrs. Brooke was not
suspicious, and her thoughts were full of her
husband.  We go in three days,' said she.
I feel miserable about Eichard.'

Don't be miserable about Eichard ; he
only wants rest.'

Olive,' said Mrs. Brooke, ' you could dome
a good turn. I have sent out invitations
for a large party on the twentieth of next
month. Will you write in my name and explain
why it must be put off? Here is a list of
the people I asked.'

Are the addresses there ? ' inquired Olive,
v/ho knew her aunt's ways.

But for once Mrs. Brooke had been methodical.
She had made up a bundle of letters of

acceptance, and of course each bore its writer's
address. She put these in Ohve's hand, and
the one at the top began, ' Mr. W. K. Morrison
has much pleasure in accepting '

Ove stared at it in silence. Her heart
was touched by the sight. During all these
days of opening parcels of pretty things from
the milliner, she had never had time to think of
Willie. She had not had many frocks when
she knew him, and those she wore then cost
little thought or money. ' Tell me about Am,'
said she, pointing to the note. ' Who is
he?'

A man who paints the most lovely pictures.
Mr. Denbigh begged for an invitation
for him. Honora, you had better let Mr. Den-high
bring him to see you. They say he is so
clever ! '

I am glad to hear it, dear ; but I don't
think I want to see him. I do not mean to
have acquaintances of that kind. I can't.
There is a Mr. Willoughby who knows Ohve
and will ask her to dance, but I have had to
give him a hint not to do it. I am sorry if I
have offended him, I am sure.'

My dear, he is offended  frightfully offended
! He spoke to me about it. He was
engaged to dance with Ohve he said, and when
he claimed her promise, she told him that he
had made a mistake, and danced with someone
else. I thought at the time it must have
been your doing.'

Of course it was ! Why should she dance
with Mr. Willoughby ? It is not worth while
for us to sit up till three or four in the morning
for the sake of men of that kind

Mrs. Brooke glanced at Olive in some uneasiness.
Olive was not attending to what was
passing, but vaguely fingering the note she still
held in her hand. She knew it was not from
her Willie, but still it possessed an odd attraction
for her. She wished the party could have
taken place. She would have liked to see
this Mr. W. K. Morrison. He was, at any rate,
almost a namesake.

When Lady Brooke met Sir John Ellerton
at the Millennium, she quite forgot that she did
not want many visitors in Kensington Square .
The door of the house was flung open before
him, and he was made to feel that he would be

welcome at any time. He did come frequently,
and Lady Brooke bought a copy of ' Our Theocracy,'
in which it stood revealed that estates
in Yorkshire, Cumberland, and Scotland produced
for him an income of 17,000/. a-year.
That book is very sordid reading,' said she to
Olive when she had mastered her subject. ' I'll
take it away. * Put some poetry or something
of that kind on the table.'

But now all Lady Brooke's mind was given
to Olive's first drawing-room. She took her to
a professional lady, who tied a voluminous
table-cloth round her waist and gathered it up
train-wise to show her pupils how to manage
such appendages when the time came. She
had solemn interviews with Madame Filoselle
and others. All said Olive would look sweet
on the occasion, and all were triumphantly
right. She did look especially pretty.

Lady Brooke had not been to court for
years, and was comparatively a stranger in
English society ; but Mrs. Raymond was not,
and Mrs. Raymond seemed bent on introducing
her to everyone worth knowing. Olive, accustomed
to Mrs. Brooke's literary folks, and to

them only, suddenly found herself in a new
world. She was rather oppressed by it ; she
wondered how Mrs. Raymond could look so
happy. Mrs. Raymond was happy, and thoroughly
at home. Now and then Olive heard
fragments of conversation which proved this.
Once or twice she heard herself named, always
in the most flattering terms. That, she supposed,
was due to politeness. All were courtiers
and courtly here. An old lady, evidently
an intimate friend of Mrs. Raymond's, was
speaking to her now. Olive could not avoid
hearing what she said. ' I did not know your
niece was so old. How fast time does go I
Poor thing ! How pretty she is ! What a sad
thing for her 1 '

Hush ! ' said Mrs. Raymond softly. ' She
knows nothing about it. We think it better to
keep it from her.'

'Much better. You are quite right. It
would only be giving her useless pain. She
is a charming girl, to be sure. I am so
sorry for her, but I hope she will marry
soon  that would be the best thing that could
happen.'

Much the best. I hope and trust she will.'

After this people came and went. Highborn
ladies said a few gracious words to Olive,
but she was weary with waiting so long in the
ante-room, and could not forget what she had
heard, or cease to wonder at it. Why was she
so to be pitied ? Because her father was so faraway
from her in India  because her uncle was
so ill  that must be the reason, and he was
going to die. No greater grief could befall her
than that.

The first thing she said, when, exhausted by
this unaccustomed scene, she huddled herself
into the Eaymonds' carriage with her mother
and aunt, was, ' Please tell me something  I
am miserable until I know. Is Uncle Eichard
going to die? Is he so ill that he can't recover?'


Of course not, you silly child ! What can
have put that into your head ? '

'I am so unhappy about him  so afraid
that you are only sajdng that to comfort
me.'

His complete recovery is certain, if he will
consent to take a proper amount of rest. How

can you doubt it ? What has put such a fancy
into your mind? You had no such fear this
morning.'

Something I heard '

You are foolish ; you have made some
mistake. Don't be silly, Olive ; you are going
to be a great success, I can see that.'

Am I ? ' said Olive, perfectly uninterested.
I feel very strange and unhappy. Do tell me
why people pity me, and call me " poor thing,"
and what unhappy or unfortunate thing is being
kept from me ; I know there is something, and
you must tell me,' and she turned imploringly
to Mrs. Raymond, 'for I heard you talking
about it to the lady in hight-grey velvet and
pearls.'

Lady Brooke and Mrs. Raymond looked
on each other with eyes full of meaning. The
latter said promptly, ' Olive, you are dreaming.
I have never said a word about you all the
morning, except to thank any of my friends
who came to tell me that you were a pretty
girl. If I had known that you were going to
talk in this foolish way as soon as we got into
the carriage, I should have said. " Yes, she is

pretty, but, poor child, you have no idea how-stupid
she is'"

Ohve smiled faintly ; she was only partly
convinced. ' Are you quite sure that the grey-velvet
lady was not talking of me ? '

I am certain. Have I not told you

But she was looking at me.'

Yes she said once or twice, " Your niece
is so pretty, I can't take my eyes off her " 
that's why she looked, I suppose  the worst is,
she is half blind.'

But she said niece '

'Now, Olive, be reasonable. You are not
my only niece. I can't tell you the name of
the girl we were talking of  that would not be
right, but T see that nothings short of that will
convince you.'

Ohve felt ashamed of herself and was
silent.

What a blessing it is to know that Mrs.
Ullathorne is out of England ! ' observed Mrs.
Raymond. ' Do you know, I feel as if an oppressive
weight were removed now that she is gone.
She got to know of all our doings, and never .

I. Q

proved of any of them, and we were forced to
listen to her wonderful speeches and never resent
them. Tiresome woman ! I wonder how often
she would see us if she were poor, or how much
range we should grant her tongue if she lost all
her money ? Here we are at Falkland Houses !
Don't you think our house rather nice ? but it's
only a hired one  we are not so well off as you.
By-the-by, are you pretty comfortable at Sister
Ullathorne's ? She bullies everyone but her
servants, and spoils them until they are unbearable.
And then every now and then she
breaks out, insults them all, and they leave in a
body. I suppose, if they were ever so disagreeable,
you would not dare to turn them
away ? *

Of course not. That is my tenure of
office ; but I am perfectly comfortable.'

They used to make a fuss when Sister
TJllathorne had a few friends to dinner  they
-said it gave them trouble.'

Sister TJllathorne only asks plain men and
women,' said Lady Brooke, laughing. 'That
is so silly of her. Servants will run themselves
off their legs for anyone with a title  they

enjoy it. I know quite well how to manage
them.'

'And everyone else too,' thought Mrs.
Raymond, who, though she was forming a very
strong alliance with her Indian sister-in-law,
was quite aware of her powers. ' Good-bye.
I am very tired ! You are coming to us this
evening, Honora ?  be punctual.'

Sir John Egerton is going to dine with us,'
replied Lady Brooke, ' and Mrs. Ptolemaic ; she
won't stay late, though, and I suppose I may
bring him with me ? '

Of course you may,' said Mrs. Raymond
with a meaning glance at Ohve, who was looking
out of the window.

Good-bye, then ; thank you for taking
us to-day. By-the-by, I shall not be so afraid
of moving about next week  I am going to
have the use of Dr. Brooke's carriage while he
is away. Selina asked him to let me have it.
It looks rather professional, but I don't mind
that  it will be an immense comfort to me.
Au revoir

It is simply astounding,' said Mrs. Raymond
to her husband. ' That woman's genius
Q 2

is prodigious ! She has not been in London a
month, and yet she has contrived to find people
willing to supply her with everything she can
want or wish for. She has a better house than
we have, and it does not cost her a penny ;
and now she has a carriage, and very soon '

You could have had the carriage yourself
if you had asked for it. I wish you had. It
would have done for me, and you could have
had ours all to yourself.'

But it would never have occurred to me to
ask for it. That thinking of things so promptly
is just what is so very clever in Honora.'

When Lady Brooke entered her drawing-room
it was full of lovely flowers. She had
chanced ' to say in Sir John Ellerton's hearing
how wretched it was to her to live in rooms
without flowers, and he had felt it to be a
privilege to send her some.

CHAPTER XII.

I cannot but remember such things were,
That were most precious to me.  Macbeth.

Qiieen. What would she have ?

Hor. She speaks much of her father.  Hamlet.

Mrs. Ullathorne's drawing-room was certainly
a very agreeable room at any time, and
doubly so now that she herself was not occupying
it. The sun shone pleasantly through the
three large south windows which looked on the
square, and the back drawing-room was made
cheerful by a glimpse of the tops of some fine
old sycamore trees which grew with quite
majestic dignity in the long strip of garden at
the back of the house. The spring had been
wet and cold, so no one had the heart to shut
out a single ray of sunshine, or fragment of
clear sky. Olive was sitting in a low chair by
the window reading her Aunt Sehna's last new
novel. All for love of her Olive was reading

it; for, though it had just come out, she had
read it, and copied it, and heard it read aloud,
until she could almost have repeated the whole
three volumes by heart. Ove's dress was very
pretty, and made of some faint white Indian
stuff trimmed with old gold satin. The sun
flickered on this and illumined soft warm
patches, and filled every fold with reflected
light, and caught the tawny satin and made
it burn with a new richness, or rested on Olive
herself, lending depth to the splendour of her
dark eyes, and heightening the delicacy of her
wonderfully delicate complexion. She was
rather sad. She had, as it would seem, everything
the world could give her, but she felt
suddenly cut off from the companionship of all
who loved her. They were few in number,
certainly ; but Dr. Brooke had always been as
loving to her as a father, and Mrs. Brooke,
in spite of her absurdities, was a very kindhearted
good woman, and intensely fond of
Olive whenever she had time to think of her.
Now, though she was with her own mother,
she did not feel half so much at home as she
had done with her uncle and aunt. Lady

Brooke was polite, always kindly ready to take
an interest in anything which concerned Olive,
but she never went beyond this never showed
more affection than she might have felt for a
pleasant visitor. In point of fact, Olive felt
very much like a visitor, and had difficulty in
believing that she was the daughter of the pretty
lady who was now her daily companion. She
constantly found herself imagining a time when
this unreal existence  this life of dressing and
gaiety  would come to an end, and she would
be at home again with her dear uncle and aunt,
and would look on this visit to Lady Brooke asa
dream. So far as it went, it was a very
pleasant dream. They had spent nearly two
months in perpetually dressing for different
kinds of entertainments. Gay luncheons had
been swiftly followed by garden parties or afternoon
concerts ; dinner parties had been squeezed
in between balls and soirees ; operas, theatres,
and lawn tennis parties had been enjoyed whenever
a spare hour or so could be found for
them. How much of their lives during the last
eight weeks had been spent on the great main
roads, hurrying home from one scene of pleasure

with barely time to dress for another !
Ohve had thoroughly enjoyed the excitement
of this perpetual change, but she painfully felt
the need of some one who loved her. In Harley
Street her uncle's eyes always brightened when
he saw her ; and she never entered the study
without a kind word from her aunt, though it
might be little more than  ' Oh, it is you, daring
; do sit down, but don't speak until I give
you leave.' Now, though Olive did not go sofar
as to make the actual comparison. Lady
Brooke treated her much as a milliner treats a
lay figure. She was careful to see that her
daughter was well dressed and well placed, and
then, so long as they happened to be alone
together, she took very little further notice of
her. When visitors came, Lady Brooke always
placed her in the best possible light ; but Olive
pined for a word or two of kindness when no
one was there. The words ' dear ' and ' darling '
fell trippingly enough from Lady Brooke's
tongue, but they had no inner warmth  they
were only used conventionally. Moreover,
Olive felt as if Lady Brooke either placed a
barrier between herself and her father and

brothers and sisters, or did not care to remove
one which by some accident already existed.
She continually spoke of Sir Chesterfield, but
never as if Olive would have much to do with
him ; nor did she ever seem to look forward to
the time when Olive and her brothers and
sisters would all hive together, or do anything
to draw them nearer to each other now. Lady
Brooke wrote long letters to India to her husband,
and to Lausanne to the girls, but she
never showed Olive their answers, or asked her
to write to them, or gave her a message from
them, or tried in any way to make her feel as
if she were anything to them. Ohve often
thought of these things with surprise and pain.
She dropped her book now to think of them
once more. Lady Brooke was writing, and if
Olive could have seen her letter she might have
read :  ' Do not be unhappy about Olive. I
always told you that it was foolish to be so,
and now that she is with me I say so still more
strongly. She has every chance of doing extremely
well. She has every possible advantage.
Thanks to our own friends and to your
sister Esther's kind introductions, we have had

ample opportunity of enjoying society. Olive
is remarkably beautiful ; a little dreamy and
not a little romantic, but I think that is easily
to be accounted for by the odd way in which
she has been brought up. Sir John Ellerton is
very much in love with her. She is not aware
of it yet, and I do not intend to enlighten her ;
indeed, I did not attach much importance to
the matter myself until three weeks ago, when
he brought his mother to call on us. She is a
dear old lady, as good and kind as can be, but
much too full of the importance of her family
and of her son to come here and sanction any
love-affair with poor dear Olive, if she had not
seen that he was so thoroughly in earnest that
it would be impossible to make him take the
disadvantages of such an alliance into account.
He will be a very good husband for her, for he
has at least 20,000/. a year. They will probably
be married some time in the autumn or
winter. I shall leave Amabel with them in
England, for I am sure India will never suit
her, and return to you with the younger girls ;
and then I think we may all be very happy together
if you will only take brighter views of

everything. Anyhow, if Olive gets such an extremely
desirable husband as Sir John Ellerton,
I do not see that you need worry yourself
any longer on her account ; indeed, it will
be wrong to me and to your other children
if you do.' So far had Lady Brooke written,
when a loud postman's knock announced the
arrival of more letters. She grumbled. Olive
rejoiced : she said that she liked letters, and
often wished that the postman would come
twice as often. ' You would not get more
letters if he did," replied Lady Brooke, but
such considerations were too deep for Olive ;
besides, she was soon absorbed in a letter from
her Aunt Selina. Lady Brooke had a packet
of letters. Some were invitations, and these
she at once answered, and thus some time was
spent. ' There, that is from your Aunt Ulla-thorn,'
said she at length ; and as she spoke,
she tossed aside a letter with an enormous
garden seat-like monogram as vulgar as modern
taste could devise. ' I have read it, though I
knew there would be something in it to vex me.'
It was rather a comical letter. Since Mrs
UUathorne's departure she had had leisure to

think, and had ' come to the conclusion that it
was very foolish to shrink from saying unpleasant
things to servants when benefit to
yourself might accrue from doing so.' Her
letter was frill of orders to her sister Honora to
be very severe with those whom she was looking
after. She was to take the housemaid
(lazy thing) to task for this, and the cook for
that, and to get about twenty times as much
work out of the under-servants as they had
ever done before. In fact, Lady Brooke had
no difficulty in seeing that Mrs. UUathorne was
trying to get her to set everything a-going in
the house which for years she herself had pined
to have done but dared not order.

What will you do ? ' cried Olive. ' I am
sure they won't like it.'

Nothing,' said Lady Brooke calmly. ' The
servants are very good creatures, and if your
aunt wishes to make these changes she must
speak to them herself. Your Aunt UUathorne
is in Italy.'

How delightful ! Is she not very happy? '

She says that she has only gone there
because her doctor wished her to stay at Kreuz-

each. I'll read you what she says : *' The thing
which has struck me most in Italy is the hardness
of the water." '

Olive's lip curled.

Yes, money is oddly distributed,' remarked
Lady Brooke. ' Your Aunt Ullathorne, who
would have been completely in her element as
matron of a workhouse, ruling her paupers
with a rod of iron, is able to have every delight
money can procure for her, and finds nothing
to astonish her in Italy but the hardness of the
water, and has thought of nothing on her way
there but how clever it will be to make me doa
bit of grinding down her domestics which
she dares not do herself; and here am I, who
could so enjoy wealth, obliged to think twice
before I spend sixpence ! However, I won't
complain, for I am very comfortable.'

Lady Brooke had a perfect talent for making
herself comfortable. She never seemed to
exert herself much to secure this happy state,
or in any way to oppress those who waited on
her, but wherever she went she always, in an
incredibly short space of time, gathered around
her everything that was at all necessary to her

enjoyment. She instinctively knew the warmest
corner and easiest chair, and in this she basked
gracefully, looking rosy, comely, caressing,
and entirely happy. She did not let Mrs.
Ullathorne's letter distress her  nothing ever
did distress her much but lack of money.
Presently she looked up and said, ' Olive, remember
this : one of the most important things
in this world is to secure a good income ; then
if you are unhappy, it must be your own fault.
If you have not enough money, you will be
worried every hour of your life.'

Olive hated talk about money. She lost no
time in making an excuse to go into the
dining-room to fetch something. It was empty ;
so she sat down in a chair by the window, and
drew aside the white curtain. Not for the sake
of looking out, however, for her thoughts were
very busy with other things, and she was
anxiously wondering if her uncle would ever be
well again. She might have been there half an
hour, when her eyes rested on a figure which
had already passed the window more than once.
It was a lady. She was not by any means
young, but very handsome, with a beauty of

feature which time has no power to alter. She
was, however, so pale and haggard and anxious-looking,
that Olive felt a throb of pain even at
the first glimpse of her. She was plainly,
almost humbly dressed, and wore an old black
shawl folded tightly round her ; nevertheless,
she was unmistakably a lady. Her manner
was so strange that Olive could not help watching
her. She passed backwards and forwards
before the window, each time shortening the
range of her little walk, and each time fixing a
very earnest, not to say painfully eager, gaze
on Olive's face, who in turn felt so peculiarly
attracted by this poor woman that she never
removed her eyes from her for a moment.
Even when the lady disappeared, Olive, who in
her eagerness had risen to her feet, still stood
where she was, so certain did it seem that this
stranger would return. She did return ; looked
most searchingly as before, again passed on ;
but this time, after walking perhaps two steps,
she turned back impetuously, came to the railing
immediately in front of the window where
Olive was standing, grasped it as if to support
herself, and then stood still. Her lips were

parted as if to speak; but she faltered, and just
as Olive and she were thus standing with eyes
riveted on each other's faces, Lady Brooke came
in and said, ' Olive dear, I quite forgot to remind
you Oh, what is the matter ? ' cried

she, for she saw Olive's startled face. She came
to the window ; she saw the strange lady. The
stranger saw her, and now her gaze was transferred
to Lady Brooke, but its character changed,
and a look of intense horror came over her wan
face. Olive saw this, and saw too, how pale
her mother had grown, and how she trembled.
What is it ? ' cried Olive ; ' who is she P
She has been outside such a long time.' But
Lady Brooke did not speak, and still stood at
the window. Suddenly a slim, graceful figure
glided swiftly forward, and a lady in whom
Olive at once thought she recognized the pretty
lady of her youth whose name was Alice, put
her hand on the strange lady's shoulder. She
turned to look at the new-comer, and at that
moment Olive saw that, though the one face
was serene and peaceful, and the other worn by
grief and pain, the features of both were almost
identical, and there could be no doubt that the

two ladies were sisters. The new-comer said
two or three kind Avoids to her sister, took herby
the arm, and then gently but firmly led her
away. Both cast one look back at the window
where Olive and her mother were standing, and
both looked at Olive and not at Lady Brooke,
and the look, though full of distress, was
kind. Slowly they disappeared. Olive felt
shaken in every nerve. She turned to Lady
Brooke, hoping for some explanation.

What a shock it does give one to see mad
people ! ' ejaculated that lady, with a long sigh
of relief, when they were gone. ' Olive, we have
no time to lose : have you forgotten that we
have to be at Mrs. Bertie Warrington's at two ?

But, mother,' said Ohve, ' don't you know
anything about that lady ? She looked just as
if she knew us. I thought she was going to
speak to me.'

Perhaps she was. Keep away from her if
she comes again, for it is very dangerous when
mad people take it into their heads to mix you
up with their fancies ! '

But, mother, do you know nothing of her ?
I '

VOL. I. R

Why do you ask if I know her ? How
can I know her ? '

She looked '

She looked uncommonly like Bedlam, and
the woman who took her away was not much
better. Don't waste more time on them,' said
Lady Brooke imperatively, for Olive was just
going to say that she almost thought the second
lady was an old friend of Dr. Brooke's ; but
Lady Brooke would not listen to her. ' Weare
to dine a little earlier this evening, and goto
the opera with old Lady Ellerton. I have
just had a note from her. Let us think of your
dress for this bazaar  it is a much pleasant
subject than mad women.'

CHAPTEE XIII.

Pleasures newly found are sweet.  Wordsworth.

'Olive, what are you doing, dear?' inquired
Lady Brooke.

Writing to Aunt Selina.'

Don't waste your time ; she will never
read your letter.'

Olive smiled and said, ' Oh yes, she will ;
I know how to avoid all danger of her overlooking
it  I never leave a blank half sheet.
People who do that when they write to Aunt
Selina often have a bit of a chapter written on
the back of their letters, and then she tears it
off and that fragment is lost sight of.'

She is a foolish woman,' muttered Lady
Brooke unguardedly.

Mother ! ' cried Olive. ' I love Aunt Selina
dearly! She is very kind, and awfully clever ! '

Lady Brooke shrugged her shoulders. ' She

ris

always sowing laurel-seed, but does any of it
ever come up ? '

Do you not like her novels? '

 I like them immensely, but she says she
makes no money by them

You spoke of laurels  laurels do not imply
money.'

Oh ! laurels that are genuine are always
gilded. But never mind that now ; don't think
that I do not love your Aunt Selina because I
take practical views of things. I am practical ;
I never do anything unless I hope to benefit by
doing it.'

Lady Brooke was practical, and had a
wonderful gift of turning everything that
happened, no matter how unsusceptible of such
treatment it might at first sight appear to be,
into a means of obtaining some advantage for
herself. She had even found a way to profit
by Mrs. Ullathorne's last letter, though at first
she had resolved to take no notice of it. She
soon bethought herself, however, and wrote to
tell that lady that having, as in duty bound,
conveyed her wishes to her household, she was
sorry to say that her words had been very ill

received. The servants had been quite good
and settled before, but the moment she made
Httle complaints, and tried to exact a little more
work from them, it had seemed to revive ill
feeling, and one and all they had said that it
was scarcely worth while to begin to make any
change in their work for the short time they had
to stay. Under the circumstances, she advised
Mrs. Ullathorne not to return until this fresh
outbreak had blown over. Mrs. Ullathorne at
once wrote back to thank her kind sister for the
hint, and said that she had determined not to
return until after Christmas. She hoped her
sister would be able to keep house for her a
little longer. She knew that she could not remain
in London during the hot months of the
year, but did not mind the servants being left
then, if Honora would return to London in the
autumn.

Do you think we shall leave town, mother ? '
said Olive, when she heard this.

Not unless we get some nice invitation, I
fear, for your father's last cheque Alas not a very
large one. I am longing for some fresh air, but
I don't know how to get it.'

We could go and spend a few weeks with
Aunt Lettice at Austeriield ; that would cost
nothing, and be delightful'

I have often heard you speak of the
delights of Austerfield,' said Lady Brooke drily.
I believe they consisted in wandering over
pasture fields and picking bunches of wildflowers.
Do you think you would like a month
or two of that kind of life now P '

Olive was silent.

It is pleasant enough to gather big bunches
of buttercups when you are a baby, but one
outgrows even that.'

Olive sighed. She began to wonder if, amid
all the fascinations of a London season as she
now knew it, she had lost the capacity of enjoying
simple country pleasures. She did not think
so  the thought of her happy early life at Butterfield
had always power to touch her most
profoundly. The very name of the place now
sent her thoughts careering back to the days of
her youth. She saw herself roaming carelessly
over flowery fields, light-hearted and free as
air. She had never been half so happy since
she left them, and if it were true that she had

outgrown all power of taking pleasure in that
innocent and joyous existence, she could not
possibly be the gainer by any experience which
had taught her to despise it.

Lady Brooke was quick to guess her
thoughts, and said, ' It is all very well to sit
here trying to make yourself believe that you
would like to run wild again as you used to do ;
but, my dear, if I were to pack up a box of
plain old dresses for you and send you away to
Aunt Lettice, and tell you that you should
never return to London, I do not think anything
you found at Austerfield would in anyway
compensate for what you leave behind
you here. Depend upon it, you would find it
very dull, and would heartily wish yourself
back again.'

Ohve made no answer. Perhaps Lady
Brooke was right. It was certainly very delightful
to live as she did now, enjoying every
luxury a great capital can offer, but she was not
going to live in this way for ever. ' Is it gay in
India ? ' she asked, for she often wondered
about India, and why her mother never talked
of it to her.

Oh yes, it is gay  it depends, of course,
on where you happen to be.'

'Where shall we be? Is papa always in
the same place ? '

I don't know,' replied Lady Brooke, absently.
' I don't suppose that you will have
to go out to India. It is not at all likely  at
least, I hope not.'

Why did Lady Brooke hope not ? Did she
not want her there?

Don't look puzzled, Olive ; I can't tel you
all my fancies, but my idea is that your life here
will be so happy that you will not want to go
there. But, Ohve, child, see ! here is your
Aunt Raymond, and you are not ready ! You
ought to have gone to dress an hour ago.'

A life of continual gaiety leaves no time for
unravelling puzzles or indulging in disagreeable
reflections. Olive had only a few minutes to
dress for a bazaar, and an important bazaar too.
Mrs. Bertie Warrington, the unrivalled beauty
of two seasons 'last past,' had been invited
to preside at a stall at one of these gatherings
in aid of some popular charity or other, and
had hit upon an admirable expedient to make

her stall a marked success, and at the same
time to prove that she was still, and for many-seasons
would be, the beauty par excellence.
She had courageously picked out ten of the
very prettiest girls of that season to help her.
They were all to be dressed alike ; and Mrs.
Warrington had devised a Warrington livery,
as she called it, in which she and her ten
assistants were to appear. They were to wear
dresses of the most exquisitely delicate sea-green
Japanese crape with buttons of tiny Indian
shells. Their hats were to be of the same
material, and it is needless to say that hats of
this colour were not so becoming to all the fair
ladies concerned as they might be to Mrs.
Bertie Warrington.

Olive will be here, dear Esther, in one
moment ; we have been talking, and have forgotten
time.'

How is the great event going on ? ' asked
Mrs. Raymond.

'Admirably! I am in great spirits about
it. Sir John is a dear fellow.' Olive was to
go with Mrs. Raymond, but Lady Brooke said
she would look in at the bazaar on her way

home from some afternoon visits, and bring her
back with her. Just as they were about to
leave the house, in came Sir John Ellerton,
with a lovely bouquet of yellow roses. ' They
came from Marlborough,' said he ; 'I sent
expressly for yellow roses, as you said the
Warrington costume was to be green and gold.'

Green  not green and gold,' replied Mrs.
Raymond. ' The dear lady fancied that no
one would look well in that colour but herself.

However, I venture to think ' Here she

paused with a triumphant glance at Olive,
whose complexion was dazzling, whose eyes
flashed with brilliance, and whose dress suited
her to perfection.

Olive was following Mrs. Raymond out of
the room, when Sir John said rather pathetically,
But my roses, Miss Brooke ; I got them on
purpose for you ; I hoped you would wear some
of them to-day at the bazaar.'

Will you take them as a bouquet, Olive,
or put some of them in your hat ? ' asked
Lady Brooke, in a voice which admitted of uq
denial.

'Not as a bouquet, for I must keep my

hands free ; 1 am a work woman to-day.' Olive
took off her hat and put a few rosebuds in it,
and could not but own gratefully that it looked
twice as well for the addition. Then Mrs.
Raymond carried her off. They were behind
time, and not another moment could be spared
even to Sir John.

The bazaar was held in one of the fine old
gardens which were once common in Kensington,
but which are now becoming less numerous
every year. Large indeed was the premium,
it was whispered, and cruelly brief the lease,
which with a mighty rent gave possession of
this more than commonly beautiful one. There
were grand elm, chestnut, and poplar trees in
it, thickets of fragrant flowering shrubs ; there
was a spacious lawn with borders of old-fashioned
flowers, shady walks, and a very
pretty fountain ; and there was no sign of town,
unless it were that, to an epicure in colour
sensations, the sky at its purest had not quite
the clearness which it had in the country. No
intrusive chimney-pot suggested neighbours, and
if news from the humming city came there at
all, it was only in one grand wave-like murmur

in which all sounds of common life, even down
to the well-nigh invincible drone of the street
organ, were melted together. It was really
hard to believe that there were streets, and
omnibuses, and squares, and shops  nay, dens
of want and wickedness  within five minutes'
walk. To-day, this favoured spot was at its
brightest ; white tents were disposed at regular
intervals on the lawn, seats with Persian carpets
and Stothard-Hke figures enjoying them were
scattered over it  for though the gentlemen's
costume might not have been entirely to that
great artist's mind, that of the ladies would probably
not have been displeasing to him. A
band was playing, and a gay crowd moving to
and fro, with brilliant contrasts at every turn
between delicate-tinted dresses and deep green
leaves. The tents were for the buyers and
sellers. Mrs. Bertie Warrington's stall was in
one of the large ones ; she had been offered
a small one for herself and party, but she preferred
to see and be seen. She and some of
her subordinate beauties were already there,
and putting last touches to some deft bits of
arrangement as Olive entered. The flags.

flowers, bright wares and gay dresses of the
sellers almost dazzled her. Mrs. Bertie Warrington
darted a glance of displeasure at Olive's
rosebuds. They were not in the bond. She
herself had none, and she saw that she had
thus missed a grace which might have added to
her. She was arranging about twenty varieties
of photographs of herself in semi-concealed
packets ready for the crowd which would
madly rush to buy them. The ten beauties
who had come to help her saw this, and thought
her a *vain thing,' and all found themselves
secretly hoping that not a single soul would
wish for one portrait. They, being lesser lights,
and not having attained to the honour of figuring
in shop windows between bishops and
actresses or any of the savages with whom our
country may happen to be fighting, had no
claim to imagine that their photographs might
be required of them, and could bring none.
Not that these thoughts passed through Olive's
mind : she was too new to the whole thing for
that, and did not even know that she was there
as a beauty. She thought ready wits and an
active pair of hands would be all that could be

demanded of her. The stall was a perfect
jumble of Chinese and Japanese things, Turkish
embroideries, crewel work, cabinets, cushions,
baskets from barbarous countries, and all the
numberless articles for which money can be
obtained. People might laugh at Mrs. Bertie
Warrington and her inferior planets, but her
idea proved itself to be a good one, and her
stall was beset with a crowd which never diminished.
It was a crowd composed of lordly
materials, and loudly beat Mrs. Warrington's
heart when the band struck up ' God save the
Queen.' She was not disappointed. Her stall
was the first which was visited by royalty, and
just as she was selling a paper-knife to the
Prince of Wales, on which her own fair fingers
had engraved some lovely flowering grasses, a
gentleman said to Olive, ' I have got Mrs.
Warrington's photograph, and I hope you will
allow me to have yours also.'

Mine ! ' she exclaimed, blushing deeply.

Yes, please. The day will be very inadequately
recalled to me by the portrait I have
got. I must have yours too.'

Oh no,' said Olive ; but a hand was laid on

her arm. It was that of Mrs. Raymond, who
happened to be near and had heard.

Of course you must let Mr. Ardrossan
have yoiu- photograph, dear. That is a thing
which is constantly done at bazaars.'

But I have none here.'

I'll send for a packet ; I know you have a
quantity at home  they will be here in half an
hour.'

Mrs. Raymond despatched a messenger with
'a note to Lady Brooke's maid.

Then, I'll return in half an hour,' Mr.
Ardrossan had said, but he had not left the
corner where he was standing. It was really
very amusing to watch the ways of the place.
Mrs. Bertie Warrington sold photographs of
herself for any price obtainable, from ten
shillings to five guineas, and chattered away
regardless of sense to all comers, merrily laughing
as she huddled up crisp bank-notes or
dropped chinking coins into a tall narrow china
jar which had been hopelessly cracked on its
way to the scene of action, and which she had
forthwith converted into her till. It had the
good property of being so narrow-necked that

she could not put her hand into it to produce
change ; she gave none, therefore ; and all her
green maidens were as busy and nearly as extortionate
as herself. So rapid was the disappearance
of the wares, that the stall constantly
needed re-arrangement. When Olive's photographs
came, Mrs. Bertie Warrington's cup of
happiness was somewhat dashed, for she saw
Mr. Ardrossan give her a five-pound note in
exchange for one, and that was as much as she
had ever received for her own ; but one photograph
well sold will not make a reigning beauty,
nor yet having to write your name on the back
of it, as Olive was doing now.

There, Olive, is the whole packet for you,'
said Mrs. Raymond, giving her the spoil of the
Kensington Square photograph-drawer. ' Sell
as many of them as you can; but you can't
expect many people to give as much as Mr.
Ardrossan-he is a millionaire, you see.'

'No one else will want one,' said Olive
much ashamed, and she thrust the packet into a
corner out of sight. But she was wrong. Mr.
Willoughby, who had seen this transaction from
afar, came and urgently begged for one, and

Mr. Ambergreen and others did the same. ' Well,
I suppose it is a good thing for the charity,'
thought Olive, as she dropped guinea after guinea
into Mrs. Bertie Warrington's all-absorbing till ;
but when buyers appeared and asked for the
roses in her hat, to wear as ' button-holes,' she
was reduced to fly to her chief for advice.
Want to buy your roses ? ' said that lady, who
was in a great hurry, as well as rather cross
at Ohve's success : ' well, sell them. We come
here to sell things, you know ; besides, if you
get rid of them, it will make you like the rest
of the party, which you are not now.'

Then Olive saw that her poor roses had
been an eyesore to her chief, so she hesitated
no more about parting with them. She took
off her hat quickly, unfastened them, and sold
them one by one, to some gentlemen who were
waiting for her decision. Her skill in extracting
golden coins made her apply herself with
double energy to the work of temptation. She
was amused to see how easily bystanders could
be lured into becoming the owners of articles
which they would probably throw away ten
minutes afterwards, all for the sake of a few

VOL. I. S

pleasant words and a bright smile. She gave
them pleasant words and bright smiles. Mrs.
Bertie Warrington saw, but had no time to be
angry ; she had a great ambition, which was 
to sell off the entire contents of her stall, and
then volunteer to help some less fortunate
lady; and thus have the delight of hearing
that two stalls owed their clearance to the
beautiful Mrs. Warrington and her fair band of
assistants.

Sir John Egerton was in the tent. He had
seen Olive sell the roses, but, much as he
wished to approach her, the crowd was so great
that for some time he could not. He felt
bitterly mortified with what he had seen, and
he did not like the spectacle before him. Here
was this timid Ohve taking a delight in making
vacillating buyers cumber themselves with
things which they would fain leave alone, and
effecting sales with a rapidity which would have
insured her a high salary at a West-end house.
At last he squeezed his way nearer to her. As
soon as she had a spare moment to bestow
on him, she offered him an anti-macassar of a
would-be Japanese design. The sun in its

splendour was looking urbanely askance at a
feeble little marigold which lurked in a distant
comer. He took it in his hand, and was rather
appeased by it. ' It is a bit of her own work,'
thought he, ' and she is giving me the opportunity
of buying it.' He instantly pulled out
his purse. ' It is your work, Miss Brooke ? '
said he.

Oh no, not mine,' was her answer. ' I sold
the little there was of mine an hour ago.'

Of course ! ' said he, much aggrieved, ' of
course you did ; and you sold all the roses I
brought you also ! You need not have done
that.'

'But I made five pounds by them,' cried
Olive. ' I did not want to part with the roses,
but I could not refuse such a large sum of
money as that.'

I would rather have given you twenty
than have you sell them. You made five
pounds, and now five fools are walking about
the garden outside there with yellow roses in
their button-holes, and telling people that they
were in your bonnet a quarter of an hour ago !
Besides, I gave them to you,' said he ruefully.

s2

I have ever so many more at home said
Olive kindly, but in haste to be done with this ;
I won't sell them. Sir John, you must not
make me talk now ; I must mind my work ;
people want to buy things ! ' ' It is eve guineas,'
said she to a lady with a bit of Turkish embroidery
in her hand. ' Thank you,' she added, as
the misguided person placed the sum in her
hand, and then she wondered how it was that
she so much enjoyed the chink of money that
was not going to be hers.

You will not even let me buy a piece of
work which is not your doing,' exclaimed Sir
John in an angry voice, and he threw the antimacassar
down and left her. Ove was too
busy to be able to spend any time in thinking
how ill-tempered Sir John was. All her companions
were equally busy ; all, with bright
eyes and flushed cheeks, were making haste todo
their task well. Mrs. Bertie Warrington
herself was the busiest of all. Her stock of
photographs was diminished, her stall shorn of
much of its splendour. Many of the buyers
had taken their purchases away with them, and
most of the things left, displayed large white

tickets with the names of their new owners. It
was growing late in the afternoon, and there
would be no time to have the honour of clearing
another stall, but, perhaps, enough for a
hurried inspection of the other tents and a brief
enjoyment of the want of success of their occupants.
No one had sold so much as she had.
Her triumph was complete  complete in every-way;
for though some of the girls who had
helped her had been very much admired, that
was no more than she intended, and she was
still without a rival. She huddled away the
two or three things which refused to quit her
possession, and then said, ' Ladies, I thank you
cordially for the great help you have given me ;
I fancy that, when the sums gained are added
up, it will be found that we have done splendidly!
Let us count for ourselves.' First she
spread out a Turkish table-cover, and then she
cried for help to break the jar which held
her gains. A brisk blow with a walking-stick
reduced it to fragments, and the work
of counting began. It was a goodly sum,
and Mrs. Bertie Warrington's heart swelled
with joy, and she and each weary beauty in her

train felt, as she threw herself back in her carriage
to go home, that this had been a day of
unalloyed triumph.

CHAPTER XIV.

Hear my soul speak.
The very instant that I saw you, did
My heart fly to your service.  Tempest.

Mrs. Raymond was taking Olive home from
the bazaar, when she suddenly remembered
that Lady Brooke had promised to call for
her. ' Never mind,' said she ; ' we are now
almost at Kensington Square ; some one will
tell her that you left with me. Get a little rest
if you can. How tired you will be for the
Academy Soiree ! '

Olive was not exactly tired ; the excitement
of the day still supported her. Lady Brooke
had not returned. Olive ran upstairs to dress
for the evening. After a while a servant came
to tell her that Sir John Egerton was in the
drawing-room. She did not feel as if she
wanted to see him, but, as her mother had not
retiu-ned, was obliged to go to him as soon as

possible. He was standing at one of the front
windows looking at the convent opposite, and
thinking it a much better place for young and
pretty girls than that which he had just quitted,
when Olive, beauteous in pale yellow silk, entered
the room.

I have missed my mother,' said she ; ' I
ought to have waited for her, but forgot, and
came home with my Aunt Raymond.'

A day such as this has been to you no
doubt causes a great deal of forgetfulness,' said
he rather bitterly, and he could scarcely tear
his eyes away from the convent to bestow a
glance on her. Olive thought him very disagreeable,
and did not see that she was bound
to speak again. She wondered why he had
come.

I suppose Lady Brooke will not be long,'
said he presently. ' She invited me to dine
here and go to the soiree with her  that is why
I am here now.'

Olive bowed. If he did not see the bow,
that was not her fault. He sighed heavily.
Then she remembered the roses, and how hurt
he had been about her parting with them. She

felt rather penitent, and looked round the room
for the remainder of his bouquet. She went to
the table where it was, added a few touches to
the arrangement which had been made by the
servant during her absence, and then she
showed Sir John how pretty it looked ; but all
he said was, ' It is a great pity that you had not
the whole lot of those roses at the bazaar with
you.'

I told you I was sorry I had sold those I
had,' said she ;  ' that it was not quite my
doing '

You might have made at least thirty pounds
if you had had these too,' he added.

Olive felt that she had heard enough about
these roses, and really she had been stimulated
to sell them quite as much by Mrs. Bertie Warrington's
spiteful remark as by any desire to
make money. Besides, she had already apologised
to him. She put the glass down and
retreated to a distant window, and then he saw
that she was angry. He was angry too  and
yet he wished to set this straight ; but he was
afraid to speak to her, lest, in his present
state of irritation, he should say something

which would make things worse. So he stood
looking out of the front drawing-room window,
and she out of the back. After about ten
minutes of this, Sir John approached Olive's
window and said, ' Lady Brooke does not seem
to be coming.'

No ; I wish she would, for your sake as
well as mine.'

He came a step nearer, but suddenly stopped
short and said, ' May I write a note here  You
will excuse me, I am sure  you don't seem inclined
to talk.'

I am willing to talk about everything but
yellow roses  I said I was sorry I had sold
them, and still you reproach me.'

He began to speak, said something in an
excited manner which Olive did not hear, and
then went to the writing-table and took pen,
ink, and paper, but was slow to do more. He
sat for some time, pen in hand, looking at Ove,
who thought it very stupid of him not to be
able to get on with his note at once. At last
he made a dash at the paper, and then it was
soon covered. He folded it with a firm touch,
put it in an envelope with an air of extreme

decision, addressed it after another long look
at Olive, and just as he had done that. Lady
Brooke's maid came to say that her mistress
had come home, and was dressing with all
speed. The dinner was rather dull ; all were
tired or out of spirits.

The soiree was as pretty and interesting as
it always is, but Ove was much too tired to
enjoy it thoroughly. To her the pictures were
little more than an restful background to a
splendidly dressed and perpetually moving
crowd. The brilliant lights and shifting colours
confused her, the portraits on the wall blended
strangely with the people who came to see
them, and the picture of the scene which she
carried away in her mind's eye was little else
than a kaleidoscopic jumble made up of sheeny
silks which flashed strange lights, of sparkling
jewels, blue ribbons and stars, and gay uniforms
which even an inch of dust could not tone
down to sobriety. Mr. Willoughby was there,
and looked sulkily mindful of Olive's bad behaviour
to him. If he had approached her,
she would, in spite of her mother's injunctions,
have done her best to efface the unpleasant

impression it must have made on him, but he
did not give her the opportunity. Mr. Andros
was there, and boved very low when he
saw Ohve ; but Sir John, who followed her
like a shadow, seemed to bar his approach, and
the crowd separated them. Very few pictures
printed themselves on Ohve's mind. The dragons
were not terrible enough to alarm her 
the distressed maidens who awaited their
approach, not beautiful enough to excite her
sympathy. The picture of the year was the
interior of Blue-Beard's conservatory of departed
wives, and most of the beauties of the
day  Mrs. Bertie Warrington amongst the
number  were depicted hanging to large hooks
by their back hair. Some connoisseurs, however,
gave the palm to ' Allerleirauh,' whose
mantle was most exquisitely painted. A long
quotation from Grimm explained the motive of
the picture. Allerleirauh was a beautiful
princess, who, in order to postpone her marriage
sine die, insisted that the fur and feathers of a
thousand different species of beasts and birds
should be gathered together and worked into a
mantle for her. The thousand different tex-tires

of the garment were rendered with
most admirable fidelity, and there was a constant
buzz of delighted amazement before this
picture.

Olive's eyes strayed away from these garish
glories to a smaller picture which was placed
just above. A bit of blue sky and an ash-bough
drooping down to a river bed with quiet
grey stones in it, made her wish that the peacock's
eyes of this mythical lady's mantle were
not so bright, or the red of her hair not so
pronounced ; for, whether this landscape was
well or ill painted, she felt a pleasure in looking
at it. The artist had done his best to realise a
scene like ever so many that she remembered,
with little thought, perhaps, of the fantastic
juxtaposition which his work was destined to
suffer.

A block occurred. One or two vigorous
technicalities which met her ear showed that
the crowd was not entirely composed of non-workers
or of sympathetic amateurs ; and if
she had been at all acquainted with the language
of the studio, she might have gathered
what some of the painter's brethren, at all

events, thought of the picture which interested
her.

'He's got a deal of good stuff into that
picture,' said a gentleman with a long waving
brown beard.

Hem ! Far too much ! ' muttered another.
He was at it down there last autumn. He
wants breadth sadly, to my mind.'

I saw him there too,' said a third ; ' I told
him at the time he was getting it as tight as a
drum ! '

Tight ! ' exclaimed a fourth. ' No, the
brush-work's good enough. Mind, that foxy
thing below plays the very mischief with its
tone. It will look all right when it comes out.
Has old Reason got it ? '

No, he has bought those herring-boats.
He said he was short of marines.'

Ardrossan is turning a very good buyer,
but he is using up his wall-space far too fast.'
The speaker turned round, and encountered
Mr. Ardrossan's fixed gaze. He had come to
look at Olive's picture. Faintly disconcerted,
the artist and his friends moved away; and just
as Mr. Ardrossan was saying a few words to

Olive, and she was waiting an opportunity to
ask him some questions about the landscape
she liked so much, Sir John Ellerton came up
and broke off the conversation by saying, ' Miss
Brooke, I am sent by Lady Brooke : she is in
the supper-room, and wishes you to join her.
Will you take my arm? '

Olive was very sorry he had not waited five
minutes longer. She wished Mr. Ardrossan
had been the one to offer his arm. Sir John
was never much of a companion, and to-night
he was duller than usual.

The first thing which met Olive's sight when
she returned home from Burlington House was
a note from Sir John to herself lying on the
hall table with the other letters. He had laid
it there as he went out. She felt vexed when
she saw it ; she did not care for him enough
to enjoy a quarrel with him, and this, no doubt,
was a continuation of the great yellow-rose dispute,
or perhaps apologies for what had already
occurred.

For you, Olive,' said Lady Brooke suspiciously,
as they went upstairs together.

Yes, for me, but I am sure I don't want

it. What can lie have to write about ? he only
left us twenty minutes since, and dreadfully tiresome
he has been ! ' Olive opened the note
listlessly, but soon uttered a cry of surprise  it
was an offer of marriage as well as an apology.
What a nuisance ! ' she cried, as she tossed it
across the table to Lady Brooke. ' How can
he be so stupid ? '

My dear child,' cried Lady Brooke warmly,
with all my heart I congratulate you on
having won the love of a very good and honourable
man I I have seen this coming for sometime,
and it has made me very happy.'

Olive looked rueful. ' What am I to do
about it ? '

Oh, nothing to-night, of course. You have
had a long tiring day; don't let this prevent
your sleeping.'

But it will. I shall be thinking all night
long how to say no civilly.'

Say no ! ' cried Lady Brooke ; ' I never
heard of such folly! How can you say
no?'

'I do not want to say yes.'

But it would be madness to say no.'

Would it ? I am very sorry  but why
madness, if it is what I wish to say ? '

Do you not love him ? '

Love him !  of course not ! '

You don't dislike him ? '

By no means  I am indifferent  I have no
particular feeling of any kind about him, except
when he is as disagreeable as he was to-day.'

Ah, I see,' said Lady Brooke. ' He has
been too precipitate  that's all  for, no girl in
her senses could be indifferent to what he offers
you. Think what he offers you, and what a
kind rich husband he would be ! You would
spend your life in perfect happiness.'

But I am quite happy now without him.'

I dare say you are  most people would be
so  but how long do you expect your present
life to last ? A very short time, I should say, if
you look on things properly. Let me advise you
not to count on much more of it ; but we won't
talk of that now : the thing to settle is what
kind of an answer to give Sir John. I think,
myself, that he has been in too great a hurry ;
but I dare say your little quarrel to-day is
partly to blame for that. Answer a few

VOL. I. T

questions, Olive  you have no invincible dislike
to him?'

Certainly not. As a mere friend I rather
like him, but that is all. I know I shall never
do more.'

How can you tell? '

I am certain I shall not.'

Then, I am certain you will like him a
great deal more  quite certain ; and, at any
rate, there can be no harm in trying.'

What is the use of trying? I know I
never shall.'

Olive, I must know better than you. It
would be very wrong not to try. Let me
answer Sir John. Let me tell him that he has
been too precipitate  that you have no feeling
with regard to him which would permit you to
accept him now. Let me beg him to continue
on his old footing of friendliness, and not to
say another word about this until I give him a
hint that he may. You yourself can tell me
when I may do that.'

And if I never tell you to give him this
lint, nothing more will be said ? ' exclaimed
sive, who felt that, if the matter could be

thus arranged, she was slipping very agreeably
out of a disagreeable situation.

Exactly,' replied Lady Brooke. ' But,
Olive, you must marry some one, and I do not
see how you could find anyone half so good
and kind and handsome as poor Sir John.
And now go to bed. It is two o'clock ; you
had better have a long rest in the morning. If
you are up in time for Mrs. Beauchamp's
luncheon, that is quite enough ; that you
must be.'

You must marry some one,' repeated Olive
to herself, as she went upstairs. ' I wonder
whether that is true. How odd it sounds ! '
Well, even if it were certain that she must
marry some one, she did not believe she should
ever marry Sir John ; but she was too utterly
weary to care much about that or anything,
and fell asleep almost as soon as her head
touched the pillow.

Lady Brooke was astir betimes, and off to
Lady Egerton's house in Wilton Place. She
saw both mother and son. She told Sir John
all that she had said she would tell him, and
just a little more ; for she allowed him to bet

2

lieve that Olive was, on the whole, very well
disposed to his suit, but not prepared to pledge
herself for life on so short an acquaintance.
She must see more of you,' said Lady Brooke.
She must see you more intimately, and get to
know how good and kind you are, and how
safe it would be for her to entrust her happiness
to your keeping ; then I am sure she would say
yes, and be as happy when she had done so as
either you or I could wish.' Lady Brooke had,
as usual, a scheme, and was, as usual, entirely
successful.

You think I may hope a little ? '
I think you might hope a great deal, if
she knew you better. I must try to arrange to
throw you together more unrestrainedly  but I
am sure I don't know how to do it. We are
never alone in London ; or, if such a thing
does occur for once, one happy day drives
another into the background. Let me see 
how difficult every thing is ! This is July 
the very end of July  my sister, Mrs. Ulla-thorn,
will probably return in the autumn, and
then we shall have to go to India.'

This was the first time Lady Brooke had

ever fixed a date for her return, and Sir John
had doubtless often heard her talk in a very
different strain ; but a lover's heart is always
open to alarms, and India is so very far away.

Oh, don't fix any time for your return ! '
cried he.

And could you not spend a month or two
with us in Scotland ? ' said Lady Egerton. 'We
go down there in ten days  at least, I do,
for I am afraid my son will not go unless you
do.'

This was the very thing Lady Brooke was
pining to do. She was for the moment weary
of London and its fatigues, and longing for
coolness and rest and fresh air. ' It would be
very nice  delightful ! I must ask Olive.'

You seem in as great bondage to Olive as
I am to this big boy of mine,' exclaimed Lady
Ellerton, looking tenderly at her handsome son.

I think I won't be in bondage,' said Lady
Brooke. ' Tell me when you would like us to
come, and I will accept your kind invitation as
freely as you give it.'

We go on the 9th ; we are forced to be
there a day or two before the 12th. We shall

be delighted to receive you as soon after the
9th as you can come.'

'Oh, but have you a large party?' said
Lady Brooke, who sincerely hoped they had.

Oh no, some few friends are coming, but
we will try to keep our numbers down ; we will
let the young folks have every opportunity of
seeing each other.'

And that is all that is required to make
them happy in the way we wish,' ejaculated
Lady Brooke fervently. ' She loves you already
as a mother ; I know she does.'

Olive's scruples were overruled. She said
that, ' under the circumstances, it would be
very disagreeable to be in the same house with
Sir John, and be obliged to see so much of
him.'

I think it is his mother's house, and I do
not see how anyone could have a stronger
motive to pay a visit than you have now. He
is a very kind, nice fellow, and has been extremely
good to us. It would be frightfully
bad conduct to refuse to pay this visit. He
says that he hopes, when you know him better,
you will like him more. You can't say, " I don't

want to know you better or like you more,"
for a refusal to go to Scotland would be tantamount
to saying that.'

But would it be so wrong, when I am certain
it is of no use to go ? '

Lady Brooke turned round with a Aught in
her eyes which Olive had never seen before.
Of course it would ! Olive, I sometimes
wonder at you.'

It is not that I don't want to care for him,
it is that I can't. If you allow me a choice, I
should like to decline this visit.'

I allow you no choice. Of course we goto
Scotland. Our visit there does not in anyway
bind you to accept Sir John. It only
amounts to this, that you have sufficient regard
for my wishes to go to Invergrudie, and to do
your best to see him in a favourable light when
there  I insist on your doing that ! '

But then you wil make him promise not
to be always teasing me to marry him ? He is
not to say another word about it until I say he
may.'

Agreed,' said Lady Brooke.

CHAPTEE XV.

The very place puts toys of desperation,
Without more motive, into every brain.  Hamlet.

Invergrudie, Sir John Egerton's shooting-lodge,
was two miles from the head of one of
the finest lochs on the west coast of Scotland 
one which stretched in three long windings for
nearly twenty miles from the sea. Olive had
caught a glimpse of the loch from the top of the
pass through which she was driving, and very
spectral and forbidding the mountain ranges,
sweeping down to the leaden-coloured water,
with a straight grey line of cloud cutting off their
summits, and a band of fading yellow sky below,
had appeared to her. She had never seen a
mountain, but had read many fine things about
them, and was quite prepared to find them
going straight up into the clouds  nay, even
leaning over in places ; but her first impression,

SO far, was one of dreariness rather than of sublimity.
Lady Brooke may have had the same
feeling ; for when the carriage stopped at the
lodge-gate she exclaimed, ' I would rather seethe
inside of the Eller tons' house than all the
tiresome mountains in the world ! '

Sir John had heard the sound of wheels ;
he was waiting for his guests by the open door.
Lady Ellerton received them most warmly, and
after their long and tiring journey the prospect
of rest seemed delicious. Lady Ellerton took
them upstairs, and, having left Lady Brooke in
the room which was to be hers, took Olive to
one near it  the prettiest in the house, and said,
I have chosen this for you, dear, because I
fancied you would like the view from it. You
must stay with us three months, and then I hope
you will have learnt for yourself what a dear
fellow my son is. He is rather shy and reserved,
but when you know him, one of the
most warm-hearted and honourable men living !
Don't look frightened, dear  I shall not say
another word on this subject ; but you know
what is the wish of my heart, as well as his.'

But,' said Olive nervously  and tears

stood in her eyes as she spoke  'if I find I
can't '

Lady Ellerton kissed her kindly. 'Dear
child, it will be a great grief to me, but I shall
still be the gainer by this visit.' Lady Egerton's
pretty courtesies made Olive feel quite happy.

Very eagerly indeed did she draw up the
blind of her window next morning and lookout.
Beyond the garden and a fir-plantation
stretched a level plain, with a few humpy
hillocks and low bushes here and there, and
patches of heather ; then came a thin line of
intensely blue water, and over this rose a bare
mass of mountain, shapeless and her bless, but
bright and ruddy with the morning sun, which
made every scar and furrow visible. One white
fleck of mist was hovering in the ravine between
it and its neighbour mountain, which was
steeper, and seemed to assume more of the airs
of chieftainship. Olive did not at first think
much of their height, but gradually she began
to make out, on the sides of the further mountain,
the red stems of fir-trees ; she could
trace fine threads of silver among its roughnesses
of rock and stone ; and the smoke which

rose from a rude hovel at the foot of this silver-streaked
wall made her feel that the element of
size, at all events, was not wanting m the
scene. She longed to see more, especially to
see round that point which stopped the line of
blue water.

For the first fortnight she had more opportunity
of improving her acquaintance with Lady
Egerton than with her son. A large party had
been asked to Invergrudie before Ove herself
had been invited. These were principally
gentlemen, and to them Sir John was obliged
to devote himself. This did not seem to prevent
him from being perfectly happy. He and
they gave their whole minds to slaughter, and
even when at home their thoughts ran almost
entirely in that direction. Sometimes, when
they were shooting or fishing in some manageable
district where they could be approached
by carriages, the ladies conveyed their luncheon
to them ; but, for the most part, they were
absent until dinner-time, when they came home
full of their day's sport and of other days
which lay before them. Sir John Ellerton
seemed another being. The truth, however,

was, that he was not quite so absorbed in the
pleasures of sport as he appeared ; but he had
received so many admonitions as to his behaviour
to Ohve, and had been obliged to give so many
promises not even to hint at his affection for
her until he received permission, that he was
afraid to approach her even in the presence of
others. He liked to think that she was staying
in his house, and that he should have the
pleasure of seeing her when he went home ;
but as for talking to her, or doing anything to
advance his suit, he dared not ; besides, he felt
that his dear, quick-witted mother was sure
to be working for him in his absence, and
would manage everything a thousand times
better for him than he could possibly do for
himself. Olive seemed supremely happy, and
his heart grew light as he saw it. She was
never tired of roaming about the garden and
grounds.

You should join her sometimes,' said Lady
Egerton.

I can't. You have forced me to make so
many promises, that I feel as if I dared not say
anything at all to her. I never seem to have

anything to say when I am with her now. If
she would let things be settled as we wish, it
would be quite different.'

She is very fond of animals,' said his
mother. ' Show her your dogs and horses, and
let her see how fond they are of you  that
would please her.'

Next day, in came Sir John with a very
pretty pigeon in his hand  a shy eyed, bright -
necked, fluttering little creature, which cared
for no caresses. Olive took it in her hand,
but the longing to escape which she saw in the
bird's eyes pained her. ' It is kind of you to
bring this pretty creature to show me,' said
she, ' but it makes it very miserable  may I
open the window and let it go ? '

Oh no,' cried he, taking it from her and
putting it into his pocket again ; ' I am going
to fly my falcon on the terrace ; will you come
and see it ? '

Yes,' was her answer ; ' but what has the
falcon to do with the pigeon ? '

Come and see. It is very pretty to see
it strike it.'

Olive shuddered. ' But you don't deliver

over that poor frightened little thing to a great
cruel falcon ? '

I must keep the falcon in practice,' replied
Sir John.

Tell me what you do.'

Oh no,' cried Lady Ellerton, ' don't talk
about it  I hate it too ! The pigeon has no
chance  I hate all unequal matches. Take it
away, John  I wish you would get rid of that
falcon.'

No more pigeons were brought to Olive,
but she knew that they were immolated daily ;
and she was not fond of men who spent the
cream of their lives in shooting, and could not
endure Sir John's habit of calling the troops
of pretty rabbits which she was constantly surprising,
and which tossed up their heels and
scampered off at her approach, ' nasty vermin.'
Her ideal of perfect happiness was to dwell in
some place Hke Invergrudie on terms of such
close friendship with all living creatures that
they should look on her as one of their best
friends, and never dream of taking to flight
when she surprised them. She wondered much
at Sir John and his companions. They were

living in the most exquisite scenery  they never
so much as thought of it apart from the shoot-able
creatures which it harboured  mountains,
moors, and lochs were simply growing-grounds
for birds, beasts, and fishes, which did not
flourish without these advantages. They went
out early, came home late  so tired, too, that
it was just as much as they could sometimes do
to keep awake ; but of what value was their
day's work to anyone? Wliat was their aim
in life ? Ohve could discover none beyond a
desire to get over their time pleasantly. Politics
touched some of them a little ; but only in the
way of personal hatred of those who thought
differently from themselves, for whom no execration
was too deep. There were books at
Invergmdie; but Sir John had read none of
them, and if he lived to a hundred would read
nothing but a sporting novel or newspaper.
Whatever might be Olive's feeling with regard
to Sir John, she was quite in love with his
mother. She had admired her in London, but
now she learnt to know her thoroughly, It was
a daily delight to her to watch the pretty white-haired
old lady fulfil the duties of her happy

country life with a grace and kindliness which
added a charm to the most insignificant of
them. She was so sweet-natured, and so necessary
to the well-being of her whole household,
that no event ever took place of which she was
not the mainspring and centre. She was beloved
by everyone in the house. Dogs, cats, birds,
and horses were all dear friends of hers ; and
though she sat so placidly with her knitting and
embroidery in her hands that anyone might
have said that she allowed nothing to distract
her from her work but an occasional peep at a
jagged edge of Ben Luichart which towered
above the silver birches and pines of the park,
these quiet mornings of Lady Egerton's always
brought good to some one near her. Olive
loved her instinctively, and soon found herself
telling all her thoughts to her. She talked to
Lady Egerton about Austerfield and Aunt
Lettice, of her anxiety about her uncle's health,
of her dread lest her father might not love her
when he saw her, and of every other fear or
fancy which agitated her heart. Nothing was
kept back from her new friend except such
things as related to Sir John, and Olive could

even have spoken of him to Lady Ellerton with
far more ease than to her own mother. Lady
Brooke was thoroughly comfortable at Inver-grudge
 a trifle dull ; but she was worn out by
the gaieties of London and really required a
rest, and she was enjoying one now which was
perfect. She stayed in her own room until
mid-day, and then, wrapped in a deliciously
warm white shawl of Lady Ellerton's knitting,
she seated herself in some pleasant corner in the
garden. When Olive and Lady Ellerton had
gone their little rounds of chicken-feeding and
conservatory visiting, they found her there looking
soft and purring and velvety. She really
looked very pretty ; her delicate colour was
returning, her smooth brown hair lay softly
on her temples, she spoke in tender cooing
accents, and seemed to have settled down at
Invergrudie for life.

It was many weeks before Sir John ventured
to seek Olive's society except as it were
by accident. Then he sometimes deserted his
friends and joined her in her little walks. ' You
are not dull here ? ' he said.

Oh no, very happy. I never saw mound

I. u

pains till I came here  how splendid they are,
and how they grow on one I '

I never fancied you would be happy in a
country place. No one who knew you in
London could have imagined you would be.
You thought of nothing but balls and parties
from early morning till late night.'

I know,' said Olive, rather ashamed ; ' but
it was my first season  I should tire of that.'

Nay, I don't quarrel with you for it ; one
must do something. I am sure I should be very
dull in town if I did not go out so much ; -just
as I should be dull here if I had no shooting ;
but you have nothing at all here, and that is
why it is so good of you to seem so happy.'

Nothing here ! the place is beautiful. I
could look at the lights upon those mountains
for hours together ! '

Oh, I am so glad ! If you Hke being here
  we could always  but I am forgetting  '
;said he, checking himself by a violent effort 
we are not to talk about that

Olive liked him infinitely better at Inver-grudge
than she had ever done in London, but
she, too, did not want to talk about that

My mother has been telling me,' he continued,
' how fond you were of some country
place where you stayed when you were a child
a very jolly place with a running stream
through some meadows. I wish you would go
a little walk with me  we have never had a
walk together yet. I want to show you a stream
we have here. It is really rather fine, and ita
place you can't see when you are driving.'

I should like very much to see it ; but if
we go, won't they wonder where we are ? '

Oh no, they will guess that we are out
together, and that, you know, will please them,
for they are awfully anxious that we should 
oh, I beg your pardon ; I am always forgetting
! But let me show you the stream  they
will know we are all right.'

Sir John's blunders were very stupid ; but,
on the whole, Ohve liked him rather better
for them. They, at any rate, showed that his
mind was so full of the one subject of herself
and of his wish that she should care for him,
that everything which was said led up to it
with absolute certainty.

They left the grounds for their walk Sir

tj2

John was equipped for a clay's shooting ; and,
as he led Olive across a rough bit of the moor,
she could not help smiling at the contrast there
was between herself and her big companion,
and the Olive and Willie of other days. She
was now dressed in a pretty white cambric 
not even a crease ruffled its purity  her hat
was a white straw with lace and primroses.
The Olive of old used to be often rather dirty
and dilapidated. She fell into the streams, or
tore her frock, or got ' over her boot-tops ' in
the mud. The Olive of the present day was,
as her maid would have said, ' much more
conformable.'

It was the very day for a long walk. Her
bright eyes brightened with pleasure at all she
saw, and her pretty colour grew still prettier.
Sir John strode on by her side with rich sunburnt
face. There was a look of faint anxiety
in his intensely deep blue eyes.

I know,' said he, ' that this river of ours is
nothing very particular  not grand in any way,
or the kind of thing to make the least bit of
fuss about, but still I should like you to see
it  you might admire it. Tell me what the

river you used to care about so much was like
I hope it was not bigger than ours.'

Ever ! ' laughed Olive ; ' it was not a
river at all ! It was a common little running
stream ; but it went zig-lagging about the
fields, and sometimes its banks were high, and
sometimes they were low, and bits of them
fell off and made islands, and you could stand
on them, and it had fancies of its own, and atone
time it would flow on tolerably quietly ina
smooth brown current with something Hke
shooting stars of gold in it, and at another it
dashed quite fiercely against the stones that
came in its way, and made the prettiest gurgling
noises possible.'

'Still,' pleaded Sir John, 'you don't care
so much for that stream and that country place
where it was, that you could never let yourself
be fond of any other ? '

Certainly not ! that would be absurd ! Of
course I could be fond of another, and many
others  it is merely a pleasant recollection of
a happy time when I was a child ; I should
have forgotten about the little village where
it was, long ago, I dare say, if I had been to

other country places since ; but I have not.
I have been from home, of course, but only to
horrible sea-side towns with crowded beaches
Ramsgate, and Brighton, and Margate.'

How was Dr. Brooke when you last heard
from him ? ' inquired Sir John.

Oh, better ! he is at home, but he has to be
very careful. This illness of his is such a bad thing
for him  he will lose his practice if it goes on.'

I have been thinking,' said he, ' supposing
that thing which we are not to talk about takes
place  that all goes well, you know,' he added
nervously, 'and you are some day mistress
here  let me say it  sit is for the sake of saying
something about Dr. Brooke  this mountain
air is the very best thing for doing good to
people who are ill as he is, and he could come
here whenever he liked, and go backwards and
forwards to his patients sometimes  they would
never know when he was away. You would
like that, wouldn't you, if it cured him ? '

Like that ! Olive's love for her uncle was
a passion  if coming here would restore his
health  she was almost tempted to  she sighed
at first, she could not speak  then she remembered

that she must not let Sir John indulge
false hopes, and said, ' Please don't let us talk
of that, Sir John.'

Pardon me,' said he, ' I know I ought
not, but I never liked any man more than I
liked your uncle when I first saw him.' Olive
looked at him as he said this, and thought she
had never seen an honester'and kinder face.
They were walking along a wide rough road
across the moor. The heather was bright with
purple flowers, the air was light and exhilarating
; it made Olive feel so buoyant and happy,
that she could readily believe in its power of
healing. ' What is that break in the grass and
heather ? ' she asked after a while.

That's the river ! That's where we are
going. It is a dangerous sort of place  you
never know there is a river at all until you are
on the bank just above it ! '

That was true, but that was not the worst ;
for when you were on these banks you found
that they were deeply undercut, and had a
trick of falling. The channel of the river,
which was some twenty feet below, was nearly
choked up by masses of rock and earth which

had fallen. Through these a dark sluggish
chocolate-coloured stream slowly wound its
way, or lay in sullen and malignant-looking
pools. Sometimes it was lost to view altogether,
and once when Ohve bent forward to try to
trace it, she found it was stealing in a deep
inky current under the very bit of bank on
which she was standing. The bank was undercut,
and the lower part of it thoroughly worn
away by the deadly persistence of the stream.
She started back terrified, and could have
clung to Sir John for safety. He saw little
cause for alarm. ' If we were to fall in ! '
said she, shuddering.

It would be all over with us. These pools
are tremendously deep, and then the banks are
precipitous  no, a fellow would have a mighty
poor chance who got in there ! '

But how grand the river is ! ' cried she.
It is awful to see it stealthily eating at the
very Hfe of those rocks ; and then, in the places
where it has got its way and worked them out
and made a deep bed for itself, how it swirls
round and round, and seems to enjoy itself in
horrible, cruel delight ! ' Olive was fascinated.

Do you like it ? ' he asked.

Like it ! Oh no,' cried she. ' It is a fine
sight, but so awful, I can hardly bear to look 
I shall dream of this.'

Then I ought not to have brought you,'
said Sir John, afraid she would like Invergrudie
less now that she knew of this treacherous enemy
which lay so near it.

Oh no, thank you for bringing me  I owe
a strange new sensation to you  but do look
there ! '

What is it ? ' cried Sir John, afraid that she
had become aware of yet another danger.

Look at those ferns  I'd give anything to
get them, but it is quite impossible.'

One fern was much the same as another to
Sir John, who said, ' I dare say you will find
lots of them nearer home.'

Oh no, it is a rare kind ; I. saw a picture
of it in Sower last night, and thought then
how I should like to find it myself.'

I'll get it for you,' he cried with great
alacrity.

How ? You are not going to try to
get across the river. I could not think of

allowing you to climb down those rocks forme.'


No one could do that ! ' he replied, smiling
at her townish ignorance ; ' besides, the water
is often twenty feet deep ! No, I am not going
that way. Will you wait here till I run home ?
I'll soon get you as many plants of it as you
like.'

Ohve thought he was going round some
other way. ' I'll wait,' she said ; ' but I don't
think I dare stay here ; I shall be sucked into
the river in spite of myself, if I do. It has
such a strange fascination.'

No, not here : come with me ; I'll put you
somewhere where you will be quite out of
danger.' He was pleased to think that she felt
safe while with him  he was very happy. Heled
her back to the road, and cut down a
quantity of heather, with which he made a
bright flowery throne for her. ' Now promise
to sit there till I return, and not to go near the
river.' That done, he ran off homewards. He
was wonderfully quick, and soon disappeared.
Poor fellow ! ' thought Olive, ' he does not mind
taking a little trouble for me.' After sometime

he returned with a long pole in his
hand, but no ferns. ' But the ferns ? ' she
exclaimed.

I have not got them yet.'

I thought you were going across some
bridge. I have been expecting every instant
to see you on the other side.'

'There is no bridge! That's not how I
mean to do it.'

Then, you hook them over with that pole,'
said Ove ; ' but I can't think how you mean
to do it. You may poke them out of the
ground with your pole, if it is long enough,
but they will all fall into the river when you
have done it.'

He laughed and said, ' Come and see how
I get them, but you shall not go near the river's
edge.' He took her throne in his arms, and
put it down at a safe distance ; he made her
promise not to stir from it during his absence ;
then he went to the very edge of the bank,
fixed his pole on a flat rock in the centre of
the stream, and with one swinging leap he was
high in mid-air, and when he descended he was
across the river. Olive had never either seen

or dreamed of such a proceeding, but he was
safe almost before she could scream. The ferns
grew just under the edge of the opposite bank
she soon came back with some.

Supposing you had swerved, or slipped,
and fallen in ? ' said she, still unreconciled to
the danger which he had incurred.

You would have been sorry for me, at any
rate,' said he tenderly. ' But there was not the
least danger  I did nothing that was not perfectly
easy and safe  don't fancy I did.' He
helped her to put the ferns in a bundle, and
together they went home.

CHAPTER XVIII.

To thine own self be true ;
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.  Ilavilet.

I can't go on with it ! ' she cried ; ' I must
tell him all ! I thought I could bear it, but it
is absolutely impossible ! ' Her sobs redoubled.
Every feeling of her heart rose up in opposition
to the part she was playing ! She, who did
not love Sir John, had promised to marry
him and to spend her whole life with him as
his companion. She felt it disgraceful to have
consented to such a thing even for a moment !
She had pledged herself to a life from which
all that sanctified it would be absent. She was
promising to be all in all to Sir John, and had
no pleasure in his company  no feeling for
him beyond languid toleration of his love for
herself and a certain amount of gratitude for

his unselfish kindness. How long would that
stand the wear and tear of daily life ? How
many times already during that day had she
wished he would get out of her way, and let
her hear what Mr. Ardrossan was saying ?
Mr. Ardrossan's conversation was interesting
to her  his character was interesting also ;
whereas, if she bound herself to live with Sir
John Ellerton, hourly, daily, she would have to
listen to things she did not want to hear, and
either grow like him in mere self-defence, or
else be perfectly wretched. It seemed terrible
to be his betrothed wife and yet to find herself
taking more pleasure in half an hour's conversation
with a stranger than she had done in
the whole course of her acquaintance with him.
Mr. Ardrossan was only an ordinarily well-educated,
pleasant man ; in London, every
time she went out, she would meet men as
agreeable as he, and thus be continually obliged
to make comparisons to Sir John's disadvantage
 and she his wife, too ! and perfectly
aware that this deficiency in him was no new
discovery, for she had seen it fi:om the first,
and had accepted him with her eyes open!

But she could not and would not carry this
wicked engagement further ! She did not love
him  she admired a stranger, to whom she
had this day spoken almost for the first time
in her life, more than the man to whom she
was engaged ; and the chance sight of a picture
of Austerfield, and mention of a poor little
boy of ten years old with whom she used to
play there ten years ago, had more power to
touch her than the presence of the man she
was going to marry! All this long day she
had felt how wicked she had been to say yes
to Sir John the night before. 'People who
have neither character nor conscience may
drift, or let others shape their course in life
for them  the great thing is to be true to
yourself Those were Mr. Ardrossan's words.
Olive would let herself be governed by her conscience
 she would be true to herself. However
she might cloak the matter over, she was
perfectly aware that she had accepted Sir John
for his money. She had liked the idea of
wealth and position, and of being able to have
everything which they would command  her
recent life in London made her perfectly able

to compute these advantages. Lady Brooke
knew that she was doing this, and thought it
right. She had met Ohve's, ' But I shouldn't
accept him if he were a poor man with the
answer, 'Of course you would not  no one
would wish you to do so.' ' That was the time
when I ought to have stopped short,' cried
she ; ' but I let the shameful thing go on  let
her tell him I would accept him  let him put
his ring on my finger and kiss me  I am a
degraded, horrible girl !  I hate myself !  I
accepted a man I did not love, just because he
was rich, knowing all the time that I should
not have a shadow of a doubt about refusing
him if he were poor. It shall not go on a
moment longer  I'll say at once that I can't
do it.' She half rose ; but the thought of his
love for her, and his mother's love, and of the
shameful confession that she would have to
make, checked her, and once more she threw
herself down to weep. Her mother's maid
came to see if she wanted any little help in
dressing. She was startled to see the room
nearly dark. There was no light but that
which came from the fire. Pearson was a

person of some authority  she came forward
and said, ' Miss Brooke, do you know that it
only wants ten minutes to dinner ? '

I know  at least, I don't  but I can't
help it ; I am not going down  I am tired.'
Olive did so want to keep her grief a secret 
for Sir John's sake, if for no other reason.

I am afraid you are not well, ma'am ; the
long drive '

Yes, that's it. Leave me alone for a while
I shall soon be well.'

But you will have a light ? '

No light, thank you ; my head aches.'

But, Miss Brooke, you will stumble over
the boxes if you begin to move about in the
dark  all your things are packed  all but the
one dress I left out for you to-night  I forgot
to ask you which, ma'am, so I put out the
white one  and oh dear. Miss Brooke  what
a pity ! You must have been lying on it.'

'I threw myself down in the dark,' said
Olive : what were white dresses to her ! The
maid came to remove the dress  she accidentally
touched Olive's hand. ' You are like
a bit of cold ice, miss  and oh dear, what is

the matter ? Your fur trimmings are as wet as
wet ! ' Olive saw that her tears were no longer
a secret  the maid smoothed her pillow, put
a warm dressing-gown over her, and said she
would inform Lady Brooke that she was not
well.

Don't send mamma to me ! ' cried Olive ;
'promise me not to do that. Go to Lady
Ellerton's room  say I am very tired  that I
can't go down to dinner or eat anything, and
that I will lie quietly here  but ask her to
come and see me before she goes to bed. Please
do exactly as I say.' Olive had made up her
mind to tell Lady Egerton, and to get her to
speak to her mother. Lady Brooke did come
for a moment, looked at her kindly enough, and
said, ' You are tired, dear  you are quite right
to rest. We shall have a long day tomorrow,
I quite dread it  111 send you something to
eat  Oh, you must eat, whether you are tired
or not. All your boxes are packed  so are
mine. I shall not be sorry to be back in
London. We have had a very nice visit,
though.'

And thus she fluttered out, as usual, many

a hundred degrees below the level of what was
demanded of her. What a bitter time Olive
spent before the arrival of Lady Ellerton!
Your boxes are all packed : ' her mother's
words angered in her mind. There was a ray
of comfort in them. She would take her shameful,
degraded self out of a house where she had
rewarded the extremity of kindness by treacherous
deceit ; but how terrible it would be to tell
Lady Ellerton!

An hour or two passed thus. Some one
knocked at Olive's door. Lady Brooke entered.
Olive had feared and hoped it was Lady Ellerton.
Olive, I hope you are feeling better,  you
were terribly missed downstairs ; Sir John
looked quite cut up. I reminded him how soon
he would be back in London himself, but I could
not make him look happy about it. Ove, if
you had refused him, I think it would have
killed the poor fellow.'

Olive groaned. She knew that she ought
to tell her mother what she was going to do,
but was afraid. After a moment's delay, however,
she summoned courage and said, ' Mother,
I can't let it go on  I don't love him enough.'



 Illness

What nonsense ! ' exclaimed Lady Brooke.
Every girl feels that when she has accepted a
man. I must say good-night, Olive. We start
at the ridiculous and horrible hour of eight.
Oh, here is Lady Ellerton ! ' All chance of
further speech with her mother was gone when
Lady Ellerton came. She pitied Olive, she kissed
her  she scolded her for not eating  she consulted
a little with Lady Brooke about her, and
together the two ladies left the room. Olive
dared not say that she wished to see Lady
Ellerton alone  she was afraid of her own
mother. She got up and began to write.
Pearson returned, but Olive sent her away, and,
though her head ached terribly, she wrote.
But she could not write  it was easy enough to
call herself bad names, but how could she ever
express the sorrow she felt for the pain she was
giving ? She walked backwards and forwards
for an hour, and then she thought she might
venture to go to Lady Ellerton's room  there
would now be no fear of finding Sir John there.
She crept hurriedly along the corridor; she
passed her mother's door ; she felt very bitter
towards her mother, when she thought how

contemptuously she lead dismissed a confession
which it had cost her so much to begin. Her
dear Aunt Selina would have listened with all
the sympathy of a kind heart. She tapped at
Lady Ellerton's door. ' Come in, John,' said a
pleasant but sleepy voice ; and Olive, with her
hair hanging low down in disorder, with pale and
tear-stained cheeks, turned the handle of the
door, but dared not advance beyond the threshold.
Lady Ellerton was sitting in her dressing-gown
by the fire ; she had a book of prayers in
her hand, but her reading was all done, and
now she was thinking. ' Olive ! you here !
Dear child, what is it ? Are you worse ? Are
you ill ? ' said she, dien poor, penitent Olive
came near her, looking as broken-down and
miserable as could be.

Ohve threw herself on the floor at her feet,
and hid her face on her knee. A fit of crying
relieved her, and she said, ' Lady Ellerton, can
you listen to me with patience ? I have come
to say something which will shock you terribly.
I am afraid to speak.'

Speak, dear,' said Lady Ellerton kindly,

VOL. II. F

but very gravely ; her heart misgave her  she
seemed to know at once what was coming.

I have come to you because I am so
miserable,' said Olive. ' I cannot go to bed, or
wait another moment without telling you that I
have '  here she began to cry again, but she
went bravely on  ' have behaved very ill to Sir
John and you  I have promised more than I
can perform. I have said I will be engaged
to him and marry him, and I can't  T must
not  I ought not, for I do not love him.'

Lady Ellerton moved uneasily. Olive was
afraid that she was going to thrust her away
from her. She seized Lady Ellerton's hand
and cried, ' Please do not hate me. I have
tried hard to like him. Mamma said I ought,
everyone said it was wrong of me not to do so,
and he looked so anxious that I should, and
begged so hard, and he is so good and kind,
that I have a very great regard for him. I let
myself be persuaded  I thought I could engage
myself to him and be happy, and that I was sure
to love him properly in the end ; but I have
been thinking all day, and I am not happy, and
I don't think I can be if it goes on  I am

afraid I shall never love him more than I do
now, and that makes me miserable ! I am
wretched whatever I do, for, whether I go on
with this or break it off, it must be bad for him.'
Sobs and tears interrupted Olive every moment,
but she forced herself to continue. Lady
Ellertcn had not yet spoken. Olive looked up
in her face in an agony of distress and anxiety
it was ashen-grey, and so changed. She
tried to say something, but could not. She
saw the poor girl's terror-stricken and penitent
face, and gently laid a hand on hers.
'You have done what is right,' said she at
length.

But you will never forgive me ? ' sobbed
Olive.

I should have been much more unhappy
if you had accepted him. Under the circumstances,
you have done what is right.'

Don't blame me quite so much as I seem
to deserve  I have been so hard pressed about
this ! I wish there was no such thing as
money,' she was going to say, but she remembered
that she must not accuse her own
mother.

f2

'There has been some great mistake,' said
Lady Ellerton. ' Both my son and I were
informed that you did like him very much, but
did not quite love him, and that you came hereto
strengthen your affection for him, before you
finally pledged yourself to be his wife  that
was what your mamma gave us to understand
in London

Olive started. ' Oh, no,' she replied.
Mamma would not allow me to refuse his
offer at once. Lady Ellerton, do not think it
unkind of me to say that that was what I
wished to do. Mamma said I was to try to
love him, and that coming here to Invergrudie
meant nothing but being willing to try ; but I
think now that I ought to have known that it
meant far more. How can I atone to Sir
John ? How cruelly, low shamefully he has
been treated ! '

It would have been worse if you had been
silent, my poor girl  under the circumstances
when T remember all things  ah, Olive, I
should have been a very unhappy woman if
you had married my son without loving him !
It would have been the very worst thing that

child have befallen us  thank God, that risk
is spared us.' She seemed to, forget Olive's
presence for a minute or two, and to be lost in
thought.

Olive was puzzled by her words. ' Under
what circumstances?' she asked  'what
risk?'

Do not ask me  I can't explain  we must
not speak of that. Let us think of ]:>oor John.'

Yes, let us think of him,' said Olive very
humbly. ' I am going away in the morning.
I hope, when once I am gone, he will not think
of me very long.'

Ah, my darling,' said Lady Ellerton,  you
are one of those Avhom it is not easy to forget.
I shall think of you too, but thank God you
have done what is ri-ht at last. I don't think
John will give you up, though,' she added
after a pause. ' From what I know of him, I
think he is almost certain to try for sometime
to make 3xu change your mind. He
will try to see you in London.' Olive looked
very anxiously in Lady Eller ton's face.
Promise me,' said that lady, ' not to accept
him again out of kindness, or for any other

reason but honest liking. If you find hereafter
that you can love him, I should rejoice to hear
it ; but, for God's sake, let us have no more
marriages without love.' This speech also
bewildered Olive, but she dared make no
inquiry. ' Promise, Olive,' repeated the old
lady. ' Promise solemnly'

She gave the required promise.

Now, my dear, leave me,' said Lady Egerton
sadly. ' I must think of what I have to do
I must speak to my son.'

Please ask him not to see me, ask him not
to try to see me in the morning,' pleaded Olive.
Tell him how unhappy and ashamed I am
when I think of him and of you, and all your
kindness ; and, Lady[Ellerton, do not let him
think I have no regard for him at all  please
do not.'

Lady Ellerton rose wearily  all her joy was
turned to bitterness.

There is another thing,' said Olive ; ' I
hardly dare to ask you to do it. Would you
tell my mother what has happened  1 dare not
dare not do it myself ! '

I will. She and John are talking in the

drawing-room  or were, an hour ago. Ah,
Olive, how happy we all were last night  just
one day, and what a change ! ' Olive crept
sorrowfully away.

CHAPTEE XIX.

Who isn't can say, I'm at the worst 1  King Lear.

O, speak no more :
These words like daggers enter in my ears.  Hamlet.

'It's half-past six, Miss Brooke! Breakfast
will be on the table in an hour's time.'

Olive rubbed her eyes. Much as those eyes
had wept, they had been sealed in sleep. She
rose. Her boxes were standing ready packed
for departure in a corner of the room, with the
ill-treated white silk dress of the evening before
now neatly folded and lying at the top of one
of them. She was going to leave Invergrudie ;
perhaps, when she was many hundreds of miles
away, she might shake off some of the weight
of remorse by which she was now overborne.
She did not wish to be freed from the entire
burden ; she had done something which ought
never to be forgotten. She dressed herself, and

then sat down and Avrote three or four lines of
passionate affection and regret to Lady Egerton,
foiled her note carefully, and enclosed the
fine: Sii- John had driven her such a short while
ago ; and now all was over, and she was ready
to leave the house in Which she had been so
kindly entertained.

Are you nearly ready, Olive ? ' asked
Lady Brooke, half opening the door, and peeping
in. Olive trembled in every limb. ' Oh
yes, I see you are ; but be sure to make
Pearson leave out plenty of wraps for the
journey: it is so cold, you are certain to
want them.'

Olive was sitting in a part of the room
which did not command a view of the door.
She dared not turn and meet her mother's ee,
but, happening to look in the direction of a
large looking-glass, she caught sight of Lady
Brooke, and saw that her own face was being
scanned by her mother with the utmost minuteness.
The instant Lady Brooke saw that she
was observed she dropped her eyes and said,
You had better come down to breakfast, Olive ;
there is no time to lose.'

I don't think I can take any ; I am not
hungry

Shall I send it upstairs to you, dear ? '

Olive began to think her mother did not
know yet. Lady Brooke went away, and soon
came a cup of tea and some food for Olive 
she swallowed it, though it seemed to choke
her. People came and did things to her boxes.
She hardly noticed their presence ; she did not
know how long it was before she Alas summoned
 the carriage was at the door. It was
time to go. She held lier note to Lady Egerton
tightly in her hand, and went downstairs.
Lady Ellerton was standing in the hall. She
looked very pale, and tall, and dignified, and
under great restraint, but still kind. Olive came
mutely towards her and held out her note.

Will you read it ? ' she asked, with humbly
downcast eyes.

Yes, dear,' was Lady Egerton's answer ;
but as she kissed Olive, she said, ' I saw your
mother last night: I told her.' And now Olive
became aware that Sir John was putting Lady
Brooke into the carriage. Soon he came to her.
Good-bye, Miss Brooke,' said he.

Olive did not know how he looked, she
dared not raise her eyes to his face. ' Sir John ! '
she faltered, and burst into tears.

Don't do that,' he said in a low voice. ' I
will do my best either to win you or bear to
live without you.' No more was said ; he
put her into the carriage by Lady Brooke's
side, the door was shut, and they drove
away.

For a long time Olive forgot her mother
and all fear of her. She gave way to very
bitter but silent grief. At last she was conscious
of Lady Brooke's presence. That lady,
dressed in the warmest of warm travelling-dresses,
was sitting looking perfectly composed
and comfortable, with eyes turned towards the
window. It was a fine morning The sun, a
very wintry one, shone pleasantly enough on
the crags, precipices, and bleak mountain-sides
past which they were making their way ; a few
fleeting snow-flakes danced about in its light.
The nearest railway station was ten miles off*.
Had Lady Brooke developed a sudden taste for
wild scenery ?  her eyes never strayed from the
window. The view certainly Alas magnificent,

but somewhat eerie. They were passing
through a gorge in the mountain ; it was so
narrow that there Alas no room for anything
but the road on which they were driving, and
deep down below was a ghastly precipice.
The ground was rather slippery and sometimes
thickly covered with snow, but Olive had no
thought of fear ; if the carriage did go down
with her, it was no more than she deserved.
How odd it was that Lady Brooke uttered no
reproaches! They at length reached the
railway-station, took their places in the train,
and Ohve watched the Ellertons' carriage as it
turned round and slowly drove away  the last
slender link between herself and them was now
broken. As the carriage finally disappeared
behind a high bank, Olive could not help casting
a very troubled glance on her mother.
Lady Brooke showed no signs of trouble : she
was not thinking of that or of anything, but
how to make this railway-carriage, in which
she was obliged to pass so many hours, as
comfortable as she could. Olive watched her
pushing hot-water tins about and spreading out
warm rugs. She roused herself and lent a

helping hand to these manifold arrangements,
wondering much as she did so why her mother
refrained from speaking of what had happened,
and half wishing she would say her worst and
get it over. When all was smoothly spread and
warmly placed, Lady Brooke turned to Ohve
and said, ' Well, Olive, poor Lady Ellerton
made me promise to say nothing to you
about what has occurred; and so long as I was
in her house, or in her carriage, I have
thought it right to keep my word : but now,
the sooner I tell you what I think of you the
better. I must say you have contrived to bring
our visit to Scotland to a very unpleasant
conclusion ! '

I know it ! I feel it ! You can't blame
me more than I blame myself.'

I can't imagine how you could behave so
ill. We have stayed ten weeks, or perhaps
longer, in these people's house ; they have been
angels to us, and Ave have gone away after
making them as wretched as it was in our
power to do ! '

You know I never wished to come to Scotland
! ' said Olive, plucking up a spirit ; ' and

you know you said that coming here bound me
to nothing  that it was an understood thing
that it did not.'

'If I did say so, it was only because I
thought you were sure to get fond of him ; I
said it for your good. Your own sense must
tell you that to stay ten weeks in a man's
house, letting him get more and more attached
to you daily, and then to turn round and
say that you can never love him, is horribly
cruel conduct ! '

I think you more to blame than I,' cried
Olive in desperation. ' You know about these
things and I do not ; my instinct was to stay
away from his house, you insisted on my going.
Why did you do that?'

Does it occur to you that you are not quite
respectful to your father's wife ? ' observed that
lady.

What an odd way of putting it ! ' thought
Olive, who was so bitter with Lady Brooke
that, for once, she could be critical with regard
to her. ' Why does she not say mother ? ' 
Mamma,' she said, ' I am sorry if I am not
respectful to you, but I am so shocked at what

has happened ! It is terrible ! I can't bear to
think of it  what shall I do ? '

'Honestly speaking, Olive, I don't think
you can do anything now but take him.'

Olive shook her head.

Then, if you won't take him, what do you
mean to do ? '

Nothing !  Let things go on as they were
before he wrote to me  oh, how I do wish he
never had done so ! '

That is all very fine ! ' exclaimed Lady
Brooke. ' I can quite understand that you are
perfectly content to return to the life you led
last spring  and no wonder ; you had as happy
a time of it as any girl in London ! No girl,
no matter what her position or rank may be,
could have had much more comfort and enjoyment
than you had  but I told you it was not
going to last for ever. Pray do me the justice
to remember that.'

'I know Aunt Ullathorne will want her
house.'

'That's not all  besides, girls must marry
when they can  they have only a certain number
of chances ; you have had one which is

unexceptionable. He is well-born, rich, handsome,
fond of you, and good. What do you
want more ? '

The fault is in me  I do not love him

'Whom do you love, then?' cried Lady
Brooke, with a sudden flash of consciousness
that Olive's answer might supply an excellent
reason for what was otherwise entirely inexplicable
 that her conduct might, in reality, be
all that could be desired.

No one. How can you ask such a question
? I love no one.'

Lady Brooke did not quite believe her, and
said, ' Have you any reason to expect an offer
from Mr. Ardrossan ? '

Olive blushed to the very tips of her fingers,
but it was with fierce burning indignation.
'Would that excuse what I have done?' she
asked very bitterly.

Yes, no doubt  at any rate, it would help
to make it intelligible.'

Then if it would be right to refuse Sir
John for the sake of a richer man, there can
certainly be no harm in refusing him because I
do not love him.'

Refusing him for the sake of Mr. Ardrossaii
is a reason  refusing him for no reason at all is
the greatest piece of stupidity I ever heard of;
but that, it seems, is what you are doing ; ' and
so saying. Lady Brooke coldly and indignantly
turned away to look at the snow which was
now falling heavily, but she soon turned back
to watch Olive. Ohve did not speak  she felt
it was in vain to try to make her mother understand
her motives, and she was weary With the
struggle and emotion of the night before. Lady
Brooke watched her for some time in silence,
and then said with a sneer, ' You think you
can't make me understand your lofty motives,
but you are perhaps mistaken. I perfectly
understand that, for no reason whatever worth
Hastening to, you have refused a kind, affectionate
husband and a happy home ; what I
want to understand is, what ideas you have
with regard to the future  what do you propose
to do ? Do you mind telling me ? '

Wliat do you mean ?  cried Olive.  Why
am I to do anything ? I have never t]i ought
of that  girls who have a father and mother

VOL. II. G

do not settle what they are going to do  all
thinking of that kind is done for them.*

That is undoubtedly a very safe method of
looking at things when you have a father and
mother ; but, OUve, that is not the case with
you, I am sorry to say  you think I am your
mother, but I am not ! '

While saying this, Lady Brooke did not
spare Olive one glance of her pitiless eyes.
She stared steadily in her face to see how she
bore this most unexpected blow. The suddenness
of the thrust stunned her. 'Not my
mother ? ' she gasped. ' What can you mean ? '

But all Lady Brooke said was, ' No, I am
not your mother.'

The calmness and indifference of her manner,
which to Ohve's mind added so appreciably
to the cruelty of her conduct, did something
towards restoring the poor girl to herself. As
soon as she was sufficiently recovered from the
shock to think at all, she became aware that
she had never loved her so-called mother, and,
little by Httle, this piece of intelligence came
almost as a relief to her. 'At any rate, I have
a father,' said she, after a painful silence ; ' he

will say what he wishes me to do, and I will

obey him.'

Do y(3u mean that you will accept Sir

John if he bids you ? '

Say no more about Sir John,' cried Olive

in impatient despair  ' that is done with ! I

mean, I will go where my father bids me go,

and spend my life as he wishes me to spend it
He won't wish to have you with him  that

is quite certain,' said Lady Brooke, ' for he

dreads seeing you.'

This was too much for Olive : she burst

into an agonised fit of crying. ' Tell me why

she gasped. ' What have I done ? Why

should he not wish to see me ? '

Because you are the child of a very bad,
wicked woman, who behaved so disgracefully
that he was obliged to get a divorce from her.
Her misconduct nearly killed him  he has
never got over it. That is why you have been
kept away from him so long  it would be
terribly painful to him to see you  he is
unhappy enough about you as it is  he dreads
how you may turn out ; his one great anxiety
is to see you safely married.'

Clank, clank, went the noisy train, as, with
no thought of anything but its own iron self, it
hurried on past moor and strath and lonely
cottages, and Lady Brooke cut her way through
Olive's heart just as ruthlessly. She talked,
and perhaps Olive heard  she made no answer
this horrible and cruel disclosure had utterly
overwhelmed her. She knew that it was true 
it explained Lady Brooke's manner to her, and
many other things ; looks and speeches, which
had often seemed so strange to her, where all
intelligible now. ' Do the Ellertons know
this ? ' she at length asked very humbly, for
Lady Ellerton had said one or two things the
night before, which she had not understood at
the time, but which she now thought seemed to
point to such knowledge.

'Of course they do ! Everyone knows it.
Such things are no secret  they are in all the
newspapers  trials always are ! People do not
come and talk to you about it, but they think
of it whenever they see you.'

'You ought to have kept me out of sight,
then,' wailed Olive; 'you ought not to have
taken me to balls and parties and places

where people are. Ah  I remember now,
that was what the lady at the Drawing-room
meant. Why did you let people seeme
? '

'That was our kindness to you; don't
blame us for that ! We did not want to let
you be crushed by this  we wanted to give
you a chance of doing well  of marrying someone
of good position who could afford to defy
the world, and make you happy.'

Why should the world say anything about
mep ' cried Olive, haughtily. ' I have done
no harm ! '

Perhaps not ; but, rightly or wrongly, the
world is very shy of girls whose mothers have
been divorced. These things run in the character.
You won't find many men so ready to
overlook the disadvantages of your birth as
poor despised Sir John Ellerton. It was a longtime
before Lady Ellerton could tolerate the
idea of having you for a daughter-in-law, I can
assure you ! '

How Olive's life was chaniniy ! When she
left Inverorudie she thought herself the most
miserable girl in existence, but she was happy

then by comparison with what she was now.
She sighed very heavily.

You must make the best of a bad position,
Olive ; there is nothing else to be done. I
think you will now see that you had better
change your mind about Sir John : you will
never have a better offer  your father was
delighted when he heard of it. It seems to
lift you out of disgrace at once and for ever.
Accept him, and then I can bring your sisters
home.'

Do you mean to say that you are keeping
them away because of me ? ' cried poor Olive,
in renewed distress.

'Yes, it is a disadvantage to them. As
long as you are unmarried the horrible story is
raked up and talked about every time your
name is mentioned ; if you were once married,
there would be a chance of people forgetting
it.*

Thence said Olive very drearily, ' I have,
so to speak, no home ? '

Oh, yes, you have ! Both yom father
and I are most anxious to do our duty by you.
You ought to do yours to us. If you choose,

you can now put an end to the greatest sorrow
of our lives, and yet you do not intend to do it.'
This was said tentatively. Lady Brooke was
very anxious to know the effect of her words,
but Olive did not seem to notice them.

Uncle Eichard and Aunt Selina are my
real father and mother,' she cried, in great
agony. 'Let me go to them  I entreat you
to let me go.'

My dear, I advise you to keep away from
your Uncle Eichard and your Aunt Selina,
with your troubles ; if all accounts be true,
they have quite enough of their own ! '

I know uncle is not quite so well  but I
may go to them  they will take me in, I am
sure.'

If your uncle's illness continues long, it
will be quite as much as he can do to keep
himself.'

I will help them  I vill work like a servant
for them.'

You forget that they have girls too ! I
dare say yoiu uncle's true reason for sending
them to school at Brighton was your being in
Harley Street.'

But what am I to do, then ? I am not to
go to Uncle Eichard, and you and papa do not
want me in India.'

That is just the very question which I
want you to take into consideration ; not that
I should have any objection to have you in
India with us  it is your father  I am sure he
could not bear it ! We hoped that you would
use the splendid chances which have been given
you and marry. If you do not wish to do
that, you must be content to be somewhat of
a burden to your friends ! '

Ohve groaned. Her mother's disgrace cut
her to the heart. She sank down in a corner
of the carriage, and seemed to abandon herself
to despair.

Let me settle what you had better do,'
cried Lady Brooke. ' Here in this bag I have
pens, ink, and paper. Sit up, my poor child,
and write one kind word to Sir John Egerton
who loves you. The merest scrawl will do 
you can't write much in a shaking railway-carriage.
We will have it posted at the next
station. That Avill end all our troubles. It
will make him happy, and you happy, and

give the greatest possible delight to your poor
father. He Vv'ill be a new man when he hears
of it, and will, I knoAv, set off to England to
see you. Come, Olive dear, here is all you
want, ready for you  be quick.'

Olive quivered in every nerve, but she did
not move to obey, nor did she speak.

Olive, dear, don't you hear me ? ' said
Lady Brooke, raising her voice and repeating
her words lest the noise should have drowned
them. But words seemed to have lost their
power over Olive. She was huddled up in a
corner, in a stupor of grief, from which there
was no rousing her. Once more Lady Brooke
pleaded with her, but in vain ; and seeing this,
she carefully replaced her writing materials in
her most luxurious travelling-bag. Only for
the time, though  that was her hope. ' What
a long time the next station is in coming ! '
thought she ; ' and there is no seeing out of
the window now that so much of that tiresome
snow is falling. And how dark it makes it!
I can scarcely read.' Not that she wanted to
read just then. It was two o'clock, and she
had been traveling for six hours. She was

hungry. Besides, she was rather distressed about
Ohve's grief. ' Come, Ohve,' she said at length,
don't take this so terribly to heart ! Many a
girl has far worse things than this to boar.'

No answer came from the prostrate OUve.
Lady Brooke began to be rather uncomfortable
about her, but she soon shook off that feeling.
After all,' she thought, ' I have done her a
great kindness. She will fret a little longer,
and then she will ask me to write to the
Ellertons for her. No one could have managed
her better than I have done.' She opened her
case of sandwiches, and placed her silver flask
of sherry within reach. ' You must take a sandwich,
dear,' she said, and gently tried to make
Olive sit up. But Olive refused all food, and
when Lady Brooke saw there was a risk of
provoking a fresh burst of sorrow if she persisted
in her entreaties, she left her in peace.
She leisurely enjoyed the sandwiches, and as
Olive did not seem inclined to take any, she
all but finished them, likewise the sherry ; and
just as she had done that, the train, with much
grinding of machinery, entered a station. ' Oh,
please, not in here ! ' cried Lady Brooke to a

burly guard who was trying to find a place for
some one. He partly opened the door, said the
train was very full, and did not seem disposed
to go elsewhere. A gentleman pressed closely
behind him, warmly cloaked and thickly
sprinkled with snow. Lady Brooke shivered at
the sight of it.

Not in here, I beg,' she again said. ' I
have an invalid here  the gentleman might not
like to get in if he knew  she is just recovering
from an illness  a fever.'

A glance at Olive, who, white as a sheet,
lay back with closed eyes in the corner, quickly
drove the intruder away. ' It was an artist,'
thought Lady Brooke. ' Oh, I am glad that I
kept him out ! I am sure he is an artist, by
those sticks.'

She called to a porter and demanded fresh
hot-water tins, and then slowly and carefully
made herself ready for sleep, for the train
would not reach Edinburgh till ten o'clock that
night.

CHAPTER XX.

Hamlet. The air bites shrewdly : it is very cold.
Horatio. It is a nipping and an eager air.  Hamlet.

Lady Brooke awoke suddenly: she had been
dreaming that she was in the steamboat on her
way back to India, and as soon as she was
sufficiently awake to be able to think, she knew
why she had dreamed this  the train was moving
with a strange undulating motion, something
like the rising and falling of waves. This,
however, only occurred occasionally ; then it
went on again as before, but there was no
sound of wheels. Once or twice, it seemed to
meet with some obstacle which checked it
altogether ; but after stopping a minute or soit
once more made its way onwards. ' I suppose,'
thought she, after puzzling herself to
know what this could mean, ' they want to stop
at some station, and are not slackening speed

properly. If we stay here long enough, I'll get
out for a minute or two, and walk up and
down. I feel quite stiff with sitting so long in
one position, and the cold is intolerable I  I
never in my life felt anything like it ! ' She
lay back listening to the wind, and waiting till
the train stopped and she could do this. It
was not long before it did stop, and then she
opened the window, at the same time dislodging
a thick coverings of snow which had built
itself up outside.

No wonder I could see nothing ! ' she exclaimed
; but the moment the window was
open, a chill blast of wind drove a volley of
glass-ike grains of snow in her face. In spite of
the pain of this, she again tried to look out, but
could see no platform. Nothing, indeed, was
to be seen but snow, and that very obscurely,
for it was now perfectly dark.

'How stupid of them to stop the train
before they had got all the carriages into the
station ! I did so want to walk about awhile.
What can they mean by being so tiresome?
Guard ! Guard ! Porter ! ' cried she ; but no
one came, and another cutting blast drove her

back, and brought so much snow with it that
she was glad to shut the window. It was five
o'clock, she could just see that by the poor
light of the lamp. Five hours more before
they could reach Edinburgh ! ' Olive, are you
awake ? ' she cried. ' Do answer  you make
me very anxious ! It is dreadful to be shut up
in the dark with a person who won't answer
when she is spoken to ! '

Olive made some reply between a gasp and
a groan, which did not seem to promise much
conversational enjoyment, so Lady Brooke left
her alone again  put some emi-decalogue on
her own forehead, and threw herself back, exclaiming,
' Five long hours more of this I
What a great deal I have gone through for the
sake of that girl in the corner!  but I certainly
did not bargain for a wretched journey like
this ! And I do believe these natives enjoy it
for she saw obscure forms moving about outside.
' I should have thought by far the best
thing they could do would be to hurry on and
get out of this uncomfortable country. Five
hours more ! It will be midnight before we
get to bed, and tomorrow we have another

long railway journey before us ! Perhaps it
Avould be better to wait in Edinburgh until Sir
John Ellerton conies. We might do that. As
Olive was not able to write her letter, I will
telegraph to him when Ave get there. She is
sure to be willing to let me do that  more than
willing, I should say  glad. Let me see : I
might use this time that we are in the station
to compose my telegram to him. They only
allow twenty words, and I am sure, if this cold
goes on increasing, I shall not be able to doit
afterwards. Twenty words, addresses free.
Miss Brooke  no, I'll say Lady Brooke, Lockhart's
Hotel, Edinburgh, to Sir John Ellerton,
Bart., Livergrudie. " Join us here, if you can,
if only for a day. Both of us are anxious to
see you." Nineteen words. What a clever
woman I am ! I did that without one bit of
counting  just by instinct. I'll have my
twenty words, though  wdiat shall I say ?
' Both of us are extremely anxious to see you."
How the poor dear silly man will hurry off to
see us ! '

Just as Lady Brooke had got so far, she
became aware that some one was trying to rub

the snow off the Window on her side  it was
covered again already.

I'll open the window,' cried she.

'For God's sake, keep the wind steikit,
eddies,' cried the man outside, ' or the saw
will fill up the coach and moor ye ! Diana be
frighted, eddies, but I'm fearing we shall hae to
bide here for twa  three hours longer. We're
clean brocht up wi' the saw ! It's an awful'
night ! But there is nothing to fear.*

Lady Brooke wondered what all this gibberish
meant. She partly grasped that the
train was stopped by the snow, and, as she
had no idea of being in bondage to circumstances,
she cried, ' Make it go on, please ;
I must be in Edinburgh to-nisht. Is it the

o'

engine ?

Eddies, we canna gang ae fit further, dae
what we wull ! '

But if we have pushed our way so long,
can't we go on pushing it ? ' said she very impatiently.


Na, na, the saw's just like a did wa'
forenenst us ! We've been wasting our way
through it for some time, but we canna gang

further till we re liowkit out.' So saying, the
man beofan to ceo.

It's no use to go away until you have told
me what you are doing to get us out I I can't
stay here  I never felt so cold in the whole
course of my life ! '

Ma faith, teddy, we wadna bide here if we
had our wull, I can tell ye ! We're a' as keen
to get hame as anybody can be.' He saw her
preparing to say more, but was impatient to
get on to the other carriages, and said, ' We'd
better steak the wind, and the ventilator at the
other side o' the coach maun be steikit an' a' 
the drift's o' that side, ye see. God be about
us, but it's an avvfu' night ! ' Then he went.

Olive was on the windward side : for sometime
she had been uncomfortably aware that
fie sand-like snow was forcing its way in
through every crack and crevice. Her head
had been partly resting against one of the side
windows. She tried to move, and found that
her hair was tightly frozen to the glass. She
tore herself loose and closed the ventilator.
The window itself was completely blocked up.
There was not nearly so nmch snow on the

TOL. II. II

window by wliicli Lady Brooke was sitting, but
even when it was entirely cleared, the evening
was so wild and dark that they could see
nothing. Not a star [ was visible  no light
whatever to be seen but that which proceeded
from the snow itself  a shrill wind was raging.
Inside, the feeble oil lamp provided by the
Eailway Company did but little to dispel the
gloom. Its light was a mere spark, and even
that often seemed about to die away altogether.
I wish we were not so entirely alone,'
wailed Lady Brooke. ' It seems dreadfully
cruel to leave two poor women alone on such a
night as this ! If they do not dig the train out
soon, the carriages will be covered, and then
we shall be suffocated. Perhaps all the other
passengers have got away to some safe place,
and just because we have no gentleman with us,
we are left forgotten here ! ' Thus Lady
Brooke lamented unceasingly. The darkness
and horrible loneliness alarmed her, and then,
worse than all, there was the danger of another
train coming and running into theirs, and
cutting them all to pieces. When she thought
of this, her agony became so excessive, that

even Olive pitied and became strong to comfort
her. Their situation really was very pitiable,
for the icy cold wind found its Away into their
comfortless place of refuge and chilled them to
the bone. Neither of them knev/ how much
time had passed by, when they once more heard
some one outside. Regardless of cold and
wind, Lady Brooke hurried to the window to
try to open it, but her hands trembled so that
they would hardly serve her. At last it sid
heavily down, leaving an opening of a few
inches.

Madam,' said a gentleman with a remarkably
pleasant voice, ' I have come to offer my
services to you. I think, when I was about to
get into your carriage a short while since, you
said that you had charge of an invalid. This
unfortunate detention must be a great inconvenience
to you ! '

Great ! It is terrible ! You have come
to offer your services, you say ; but what can
you do for us, unless you can get us out ? '

I wish I could get you out, but there is
nothing for it now but sitting still. I could fill
your hot-water tin,' said he ; ' that was what I

H 2

tliouo'Iit of coins. The water in the boiler is
still warm.'

You would do us an infinitely greater
service if you would explain to us what has happened,
and give us some hope of getting away.
But don't stand outside there in the storm.
Come in and stay with us awhile. It is terrible
to be alone here, knowing nothing ! '

The stranger had a pass-key. He was
entirely wrapped in a large piece of waterproof
which had come out of the van. He opened
and shut the door as quickly as he could, but
was still not quick enough to keep out all the
snow. ' Bad as it is here, it is better on this
side than on the other,' said he cheerfully. * If
I had opened the other door, we should never
have got it shut again! The carriage would
have been choked up in a moment ! '

Why worse on this side ? ' inquired Olive.

The wind blows from that quarter. It is
the wind which is our enemy, not the snow.
There is no snow to hurt us if the wind lead not
got up so suddenly.'

But it is snowing.' said Lady Brooke ; ' I
felt it.'

Oh no, excuse me, no snow is falling now
a great deal fell this morning, and the wind
is terribly strong, and sweeps it off the highland
above us with such force that hollows like
this cutting are filled up directly you have no
idea of its strength. It is one incessant blast

o

of wind, laclon with icy grains of snow. 
Don't you feel how they force their way
in everywhere? You have very wisely
closed the ventilator, but still it is coming
in!'

I felt it,' said Laly Brooke ; ' it dashed
against my face just like sand in the desert. I
have lately returned from India, so sou may
imagine how I suffer ! Ko one here can feel
the cold as I do ; but now, please, let me know
how long we shall have to stay in this horrible
place ? '

This was just what lie was unable to do ;
he made some answer, weak as regarded information,
bit strong in hope. The guard had
gone to make their situation known  he would
soon return With a train full of provisions, and
a gang of plate-layers  all would be right
when once they came. ' Are you very cold ? '

he said, turning to Olive ; he remembered that
she was ill, and pitied her.

Yes, rather, thank you ; but I am well
wrapped up.'

Perhaps there is a fire to which we could
go ? ' suggested Lady Brooke. ' They must
have a fire for the engine.'

That, I am sorry to say, was damped out
long ago ! One or two of the passengers were
trying to light a fire in one of the vans, but I
don't believe it will be of any use  sit will only
fill the van with smoke. There is no danger ! '
cried he, for he saw Lady Brooke was alarmed
at this. ' They have put a little fuel in an iron
bucket  that's all ; it can't set anything on
fire;

Oh, but there is another thing ! ' cried she,
in renewed terror ; ' I have quite forgotten to
ask you about the danger of a collision, I am
terribly afraid of that ! '

'Licked, there is no danger,' he replied.
'Not the very least. The time for alarm is
over ! '

Then we were in danger 1 ' cried she, ' and
no one told us ! '

Xo one knew but the guard and railway-servants.
They did not tell us  a great many
lives would have been lost in the snow if they
had ! I only heard of then anxiety when it
was over.'

I don't believe it is over! Why should IP
People never tell the truth on these occasions !
I will not sit here to be cut to pieces  they
shall not force me to do it ! ' and so saying, she
began to open the window.

He restrained her. 'Madam, be reasonable
; I will tell you exactly what amount of
danger there was, and then you will trust me
when I tell you there is none now.'

Lady Brooke's face showed only a limited
degree of confidence. The stranger proceeded.
I dare say you noticed that our train went
very unsteadily for some time before it actually
stopped  it went up and down, as if it were
passing over mounds of earth.' Lady Brooke
nodded and said she had been asleep most of
the afternoon, but still at one time she had felt
this, and it was like going over waves.

Those were smaller snow-drifts, and we
pushed our way through them, but the cutting

was low then, and they were low in proportion ;
afterwards, when the cutting was deeper, the
snow of course was deeper too, and we pushed
it up like a great wall in front of us, but it soon
choked up the engine.'

Yes, I know all that,' said Lady Brooke
impatiently. ' The guard told mo that.'

ISTot the guard. He did not waste a moment
in speaking to anyone. He just gave
the train and passengers in charge to the
driver, caught up some fog-signals and his red
lamp, and ran off to protect his train.'

I knew there was danger ! ' cried Lady
Brooke, much excited.

Yes, but it's over,' said he. ' Let me tell
you the whole amount of it. He, I believe,
had been in a great fright for some time before
our train was blocked up, lest a heavy mineral
train, which would leave Blair Angus station
five minutes after we did, should overtake and
run into us. The danger was great then, for
we had lost much time in cutting through the
drifts  we were late, and the mineral train
Avould come quicker than we did, for it would
get the benefit of the track our wheels had cut

though that, to be sure, fills fast. Besides, a
mineral train is so much heavier, it pushes its
way with more force. The guard knew all
this, but he did the only thing in his power to
save us  he went off through the snow at once
and stopped the other train. The danger was
over before any of us even imagined that it
existed. I assure you this is true.'

'You may be mistaken. He may never
have got up to this mineral train. It may still
come  or if not, something else may. Don't
ask me to stay here in a carriage at the very
end of the train, just because I am told there
is no danger ! ' So saying, she rose, and
beoan to consider what she would take with
her.

Indeed, you had better stay ; if the
mineral train had been coming, it would have
been here more than an hour ago ; and if it is
stopped behind us, nothing else can come  that
is simply impossible ! '

I do not mean to run any risk,' said she.
Can I not be taken to a carriage quite at the
other end of the train ? You came to offer to
help me  will you help me in the way I wish ? '

Of course I will, but you will get very
wet. The snow is up to my waist

But I can slip along that board the guard
stands on when he comes.'

Yes, but each carriage is separated from
the other by quite a high wall of snow which
has blown through between them  however, if
you wish it, I will take you, though indeed you
had better stay here.'

If I wish it ! ' cried Lady Brooke almost
angrily.

Then I am at your service ; but please,
ladies, do not ask me to take both of you at
once. I will take you, madam, now, and then
return for your daughter.' Olive raised a listless
head. She said she was not afraid, and
would prefer to stay where she was.

You are right,' he replied ; ' you have no
idea what it is outside, and you have been ill.'

 I will come back to you, dear, after a
while,' said Lady Brooke. ' Perhaps you are
right to stay here, but I should not know a
moment's peace if I did. I can send Pearson
to stay with you. This gentleman will no
doubt be kind enough to bring her here.'

Oh, no, leave poor Pearson where she is ;
she has a very bad cold : don't bring her out.'

I will go to a carriage with other people
in it,' said Lady Brooke, preparing to depart
without more ado. 'It is so miserable to be
alone ! '

He thought her selfishness stupendous !
She was seeking what she believed to be safety,
and leaving her invalid daughter to be killed.
She remembered that she herself did not like to
be alone, but never once thought of her poor
pale daughter, whom she vas deserting without
any consideration as to what her feeling about
solitude might bo !

I don't mind waiting here, while you go
and pick out a suitable carriage for me  wee
should get very wet if we had to spend much
time in seeking one,' said Lady Brooke.

I might not be able to come back,' he
answered, determined not to be her victim to
this extent. Together they went. He had
rather a satisfaction in knowing that, in spite of
all his exertions to protect her, and her own to
protect herself, she must have got very wet.
He then went to look for Pearson. He was

resolved to do that, for lie was very sorry for
the poor girl whom he had just left. She was
evidently not so selfish as her mother. He did
not succeed in finding Pearson, and at last the
extreme violence of the storm drove him lack
to his own carriage ; but he could not forget
Olive's face of suffering, and after an hour or
so he resolved to return to the carriage where
she was now spending these hours of darkness
alone. He hastily caught up two or three
things likely to be useful, and, difficult as the
short journey was, made his way back to her.
She was sitting with her head bent down,
just as he Iliad left her. He opened the door
quickly, got in, closed it, and then said, ' I have
come to see if you have changed your mind
about staying here alone, and would like me to
escort you to your mother ? '

The thought of going to her mother brought
no consolation to poor Ohve ; she had no
mother to whom she could fly for comfort.
I'll stay here,' she replied ; ' unless you think
I ought to go.'

It is for you to judge,' said he ; ' it is a
terrible night for you to be here alone. The

mere thought of what you might be suffering
has made me anxious. I have been trying to
find your maid, but have not succeeded.'

Oh, thank you. You still think it quite
safe to stay here? I mean, that there is no
fear of a cohesion ? '

None whatever ! The train which was to
have followed us has either been stopped by the
guard, or snowed up.'

Thank you,' said Olive simply. ' Then,
I'll stay here.'

He liked her trustful manner. How very
ill she looked ! ' I am afraid this is a great
trial to you,' said he kindly. ' You have been
ill.'

Xo, I have not been ill  do not be anxious
about me.'

How odd ! had that fever been invented to
keep him out of the carriage ? ' I understood
the lady who was with you  your mother, I
presume?  to say that you were just recovering
from a fever.' He said this with great
hesitation.

You have made some mistake,' said Olive,
who had not heard Lady Brooke make this

statement. ' I have liacl no fever, no illness of
any kind. I do feel ill now, but it is only
fatigue, and perhaps I am hungry,' she added,
for she now remembered that she had not eaten
anything since a little before edit in the morning,
when she had left Invergrudie. It seemed
years since she had been there. He began to
unfasten a case which he had brought with him,
and said, ' I am going to make you a cup of
tea. I will have it ready directly. You see, I
am a vagrant by profession, and have to be
independent of other folks.'

She watched him unpacking his cooking
apparatus, and was soothed by the sight of his
dexterous little arrangements. It went into a
very small compass. He had everything he
wanted but water, and one plunge of the small
kettle into the snow soon supplied him with
materials for that. He had some sandwiches
and biscuits, and these he set before her. The
tea was delicious, and refreshed her. She made
him share the food. ' It really is very kind of
you to give me this,' said she. ' I have not had
anything to eat since early morning. What a
dreadful day this has been ! '

She was thinking of all that she had suffered,
but he misunderstood her meaning, and replied :
Scotland is a splendid wild country, but, like
all wild creatures, it is apt to turn and rend
you when you least expect it. I ought to have
gone home three weeks ago, but stayed on to
see more of its winter aspect ; I did not, however,
expect to be caught in this way ! '

'How long shall we really have to stay
here do you think ? '

Oh, that depends on how long it is before
help can be sent to us. The guard would
make our situation known at Blair Angus, and
they would soon organise a relief train ; but
when we get out, depends on how many other
trains have to be cut out between us and that
place. Don't think about it. Will you allow
me to arrange your rugs a little better for you?
and then do please try to forget where you
are.'

He shook off* the snow which had forced its
way in ; he hung up one rug between her and
the window, to keep out this intrusive drift.
He brought her to the side where Lady Brooke
had been sitting  that lady always did secure

the best of everything  and then, with this
fresh arrangement, and after some food, she
felt considerably better, though a heavy heartache
still remained. He saw that she was very
unhappy, and tried to make her forget all the
miseries of her situation, for to these he naturally
attributed her dejection. He talked for
some time on any subject which came uppermost
 anything to make her look less sad. At
first her answers were very short and sparing,
but gradually he succeeded in arousing her
attention a little, and at last she even appeared
to take a faint pleasure in his conversation, but
he never detected the slightest trace of a smile
on her face.

It is very irritating,' said he, after about
an hour had passed in this way, ' to be suffering
thus from one of Nature's fiercest ill-tempers,
and get no good from it ! This is nothing buta
very sulky, ugly storm.'

How do we get good from Nature's ill-tempers
? ' asked Olive. ' They can never do us
anything but harm, can they ? '

'I am detected talking shop,' he replied
gaily. ' I am a painter  a landscape-painter 

and my greatest delight, as well as profit, is
to watch a really fine storm. I would walk
twenty miles for the chance of doing that ; but
this has all the dangers and discomforts of a
grand one, and is nothing but a savagely fierce
wind sweeping the snow off the moors

He was a landscape-painter ! Olive looked
earnestly at him ; before, she had only been
incidentally aware that he was tall, young, and
handsome. She had thought of his kindness,
not of his looks. But he was a landscape-painter
! She could not see very well, but she
thought his hair was dark and curly, his eyes
seemed very bright and kindly, and somewhat
meditative ; he wore a dark beard, and had a
very pleasant voice. His hands were small and
shapely. She had just seen how deft they
were. Her heart gave a great leap and stood
still. Had she sat for hours with that hand in
hers, had she looked into those eyes for all the
joy of her life some ten years ago, and had she
kissed those hips? Was it, could it be, her
old playfellow Willie ?

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXI.

She gave me eyes, she gave me ears ;
And humble care and delicate fears ;
A heart the fountain of sweet tears,
And love, and thought, and joy.  Wordsworth.

Olive dared not trust herself to speak. She
felt that her voice would betray her. If, by
any chance, this stranger should turn out to bethe
much-loved companion of her childhood,
and if he were half as nice to her as of old, she
had at any rate a brother now when she was so
very miserable. Never in her life had she been
so wretched as to-day. Perhaps that was why
he was going to be given back to her. Heaven
was kind, and had sent her help in her extreme
need ! She did not speak. She vas watching
each movement, perusing each feature, and
wondering whether this could possibly be he.
He had left Mr. Ardrossan's only a few days
before, so it was not so utterly unlikely as at

first sight appeared. lie observed the change
in her manner, thought she was becoming
unhappy again, and said, ' Try to forget about
this storm. Shall I go away ? Shall I try to
find your mother, or your maid? Perhaps you
would like to go to sleep ? I wish you could
do that, and just wake up again to find the
train cut out, and yourself on your way
home.'

The storm was raging as loudly as ever, but
Olive neither heard nor thought about it  for
the moment, too, she had forgotten that she
had no home. ' Oh, please do not go away,'
cried she. ' There is something I so much wish.
to ask you. Do you knoAv Mr. Ardrossan ? '

 Yes, I know him,' he replied with some
surprise. ' I have just been staying with him.
I left his house a few days ago to pay a \\At at
Ducked. What a charming man he is ! '

Olive restrained the exclamation of joy
which rose to her lips. She was almost certain
it was he  but she would put one more question.
' What beautiful pictures he has ! I saw
them lately' (she could not believe it was only
yesterday). ' Has lie any of yours ?  Perhaps

you never part with them ? ' she added, bhish-
iiiir.

Oh, 3'es, I do. The only wonder is that
anyone cares to have them ! He has one
picture of mine, and a water-colour sketch.'

Ah, then I know your picture. It is a
stream with some ash-trees. He showed it tome.
I knew it before he showed it to me,
though ; I saw it in the Academy. He showed
me the sketch too ; ' and here words failed her.
It was he, and at last she had found him, for
the sketch represented the very place where she
and Willie used to wait for each other.

She was resolved not to disclose herself.
She must hear more. She longed to know if
he remembered her and ever thought of those
days. If he did, how delighted he would be
when she told him her name, and they two
were once more friends !

I am rather anxious about that sketch,'
said he. ' Mr. Ardrossan asked me to do him
a tree-subject, and I did that as a design to
show him, but I am half afraid he is not likely
to care for it.'

Olive smiled ; her smile was a very happy

one. The Willie of old used to be just a little
matter-of-fact sometimes, and this speech which,
with its business flavour, fell very flat on one full
of romantic thoughts and memories, reminded
her of other speeches made long ago, which,
had failed in the same way. But this time she
wronged him, as she quickly discovered when
he answered her indignant inquiry as to wdiat
Mr. Ardrossan could possibly find to dislike in
it by saying, ' He may very likely think it a
poor design. Certain associations make it interesting
to me, but he, of course, will only
judge by what is given.'

But I know he likes it immensely,' said
Olive. ' He told me he did ; and it is beautiful
! '

I should like to paint it for him. If I
could do anything well, it ought to be that ;
but do you not feel the want of figures in the
sketch ? '

Perhaps. But what kind of figures would
you put ? ' Olive intended this as a very
searching question.

I don't want to put any. I know it ought
to have some, but I don't want to put them in.

It is a recollection of my youth, and a very
vivid one, but I can't let the piibhc have the
whole of it.'

What figures would you put in if you
were painting it for no one but yourself? ' asked
Ohve.

He smiled at the directness of her inquiry ;
but on such a night as this, conversation could
not be expected to flow in very conventional
channels ; so he answered : ' I would paint the
person who is, in my mind, always associated
with the place, and for whose sake it is that I
care to paint it at all.'

Olive looked up eagerly. He said, ' Now,
I am sure j'ou think that something very
romantic is coming, and that this dismal night
is going to be enlivened by sentimental confessions.
How disappointed you will be when
I tell you that she was only a little girl  a child
of ten ! '

Olive was not disappointed ; she had heard
what she hoped to hear, and was delighted.
She was thinking of the moment, now so rapidly
approaching, dien she would reveal herself to
him, and enjoy his pleasure in finding her once

more. He observed lier silence, and continued:
I see you are disappointed that lie was not a
grown-up lady, but I must honestly say that no
grown-up lady lias ever done half so much forme
as that little child did.'

What did she do ? '

Well, for one thing, she opened my eyes
to the beauty of this world of ours, and of a
life spent in enjoying and trying to understand
it.'

Mr. Morrison ! ' cried Olive  (' I know
your name from sour pictures)  how can you
talk so ? A child of ten do this for you ? Besides,
you can have needed no one to point out
the beauty of nature to you  you must have
been a born artist  anyone can see that from
your ]pictures ! *

I may have been born with some love of
nature, but I do assure you that she awakened
it. She was no older than I tell you, but so
full of poetry and enthusiasm that she coloured
the whole of my after life for me. Poor little
thing ! I dare say she often despaired of me 
boys are stupid creatures at the best, and I was
worse than most. What days she spent in

trying to roll rae up hills  metaphorical hills, I
mean, and in making me see beauties in books,
or nature, which I should never have found out
for myself ! '

Olive was afraid to speak, lest she should
put an end to a conversation which was so
interesting to her. He saw that she was listening
very intently, and was pleased to see her
looking brighter  besides, he himself had a
certain enjoyment in dwelling on memories
which had slumbered in his heart for so many
years. Had she been an acquaintance or friend,
she would not have heard a word of this ; but
it is astounding what even reserved English
people will say to strangers whom they meet
far away from home, for the very reason that
they never expect to meet them again. Still,
he felt that he had indulged in a great deal of
autobiography, and was not disposed to continue
in the same strain.

Ohve said, ' Won't you tell me a little
more ? There is no harm in talking of what
happened so very long ago, and I do so want to
know how anyone so young could possibly do
all that you say this child did for you.'

Oh, you know Wordsworth's child, that
Nature took to make a lady of her own out of?
well, mine was exactly such a one. Her
love of flowers and fields, and her accurate
observation of everything about them, were
wonderful ; and she had a pretty story, or fairy
tale, for every turn and corner. I am sure it
was a Good tiling for me to have Nature associated
for ever with her and her pretty ideas and
beautiful stories. She used to tell me them by
the hundred, and to form such delighted plans
for our future life. We were to get all our
pleasure out of books and Nature, and beg
together  she really had a very fair idea of
wdiat Wordsworth calls plain living and high
thinking, though I remember she had one feminine
weakness  we were always to wear ruby
velvet.'

Olive sighed to think how far she herself had
strayed away from this conception of high living
once it was her own, now she wanted dresses
and parties, and dancing and pleasure ; and
only two days ago had promised to marry a
man whom she did not love, just because ho
Alas ricci, and his money would procure her

these things. She thought of this now with
shame and great abasement, and humbly said :
It is very hard to keep to one's first notions of
what is right and nice ! '

I am thankful to say that I have not kept
to mine ! My early ideal, if I had one, was
that of most boys. I intended to do what I
had to do pretty fairly, and thought I should
be a very happy man if I left off work in a
position two or three degrees above that of my
father. I should probably never have had any
other, had it not been for this little girl. Her
influence, however, told on me much more
strongly after I was parted from her. When
with her, I never could be made to think.
Most likely I was satisfied with enjoying her
company, and never asked myself what made it
so delightful. I took all her pretty little ways
and joy in Nature as a matter of course when
with her ; but when she left me I knew better,
for I came across people of a very different
stamp. Did you not think Mr. Ardrossan a
very delightful man to talk to ? '

Oh, please don't change the conversation
just yet. Do tell me a little more.'

There is no more to tell  I am afraid I
have bored you with what I have told.'

Olive was pining to reveal herself, but first
she wished to hear a few words more. Then
she would do it, and, please God, henceforth,
she would no longer feel so much alone in the
world. ' You don't mind my asking you to
talk about this, I hope ? ' said she. ' I am so
interested in all you tell me.'

Oh, it is a pleasure to me to speak of her,
but I think I have told you all that there is to
tell. Let me see ; she was brave, loyal, very
unselfish, and a little genius, very pretty herself,
and she had a most perfect setting. She
lived in a highly picturesque old grange, and
her family was respected by all who knew them
I forget what particular good thing they had
done to earn this good opinion, but I think
they came splendidly out of some money transaction.'


He stopped. He had summed up all that
he had to say in these words, and was evidently
not going to tell her any more. The time to
reveal herself had now come. Olive's heart
swelled. She would put one question  she

would say, ' Then, you have never seen her
smce ? ' And when he said ' No,' she would
exclaim, ' You see her now ! I am the little
girl you once knew  changed, but the same ! '
Very nervously, therefore, she said, ' You have
never seen her since ? '

He replied, ' Never ! I can give you no idea
how I used to long to do so. I don't wish it now.'

This most unexpected speech threw Olive
back on herself with a shock that was most
terrible. She raised her eyes to his in the utmost
surprise and distress. It was too dark for
him to see her expression, but he accepted it as
interrogative, and replied, ' I wish to keep my
recollection of her unspoilt by reality. I dare
not try to see her.'

But if you saw her by chance ? '

I hope I never shall ! I know I should
not like her.'

This was too much for Olive ; she had
hoped so much from this meeting, and it was
going to be as bitter a disappointment as the
rest of her life.

You look on this as foolish,' said he ; ' but
can you not understand how it is ? I like to

think of the bright-eyed, bright-haired, cotton-flocked,
natural little creature I used to know.
I am afraid, if I saw her now, all would be
different ; and with the sight of her as she i,
the child of my recollection would perish too.
Would not you feel the same ? If there was a
part of your life which stood out apart as perfectly
happy and delightful  which you could
summon up at will to delight you as a beautiful
picture would do  would you run the risk of
seeing it all dispersed for ever by a reality
which was disagreeable, if not detestable ? '

But,' cried Olive, ' it seems terribly hard
to use such words, or to imagine that there is
any chance of such a thing ! You do not
know that this would be the case : why are
you so determined to think the worst ? ''

But I have reason to believe that it would
be so. I have heard of her from time to time.

She is very beautiful, I know, but she is not

what she used to be.'
Olive sighed.
Ah, you do not like an ugly ending to

what you are kind enough to enjoy as a pretty

little story ; but the end is not ugly to me, if I

keep away from her. I can shut out the present,
and think only of the past, and for that I
shall always be grateful.'

But tell me just a little more about the
present. What have you heard to make you
speak thus ? '

Well, if you wish it ; but I speak of the
present under protest, for I feel it treason
against the past. I know I should not like her.
She has changed. She used to be natural; now
one day she appears in some extravagant last-century
dress which no one wears but herself,
and the next in the most expensive costume a
court milliner can concoct. I remember her
with her poor little hands full of hedge-row
flowers, and as happy as a queen when she
found a new one. Now she takes the roses out
of her bonnet to sell them at a guinea a-piece
to anyone who will give it.'

At a bazaar, you must mean ? ' cried
Olive.

Of course.'

Well, is it so very wrong ? '

'Perhaps not, but it shows the kind of
world in which she lives. She spends her

whole life in gaiety  balls, bazaars, and such
things, are all she cares for now. She and I
belong to different Worlds, and are best apart.
Her father is an officer of very high rank, mine
was a clerk. I do not suppose that, even if I
wished it, I should ever be allowed to speak to
her  my rank is far below hers.'

Oh, but I'm sure she would never think
of that,' Olive hastened to say ; ' she would
be only too glad to see you again.'

I am not sure that I wish it. I used to
wonder if she could ever overlook the difference
in station between us ; now my feeling has
changed. I do not think that I could ever
bring myself to see much of her relations 
some of them are anything but creditable.
However, the truth is, that it is vain to try to
knit up the present with the past : each part of
our lives has its own pleasures and hopes.'

I am afraid you are right,' exclaimed Olive,
who was still quivering with pain at his last
speech ; ' it is indeed in vain.'

Yes, it is a pleasant memory ; if I tried
to get more, I should lose all. I did go to
the village where I met her. I had honored

to go there for years before I succeeded in
doing it

Well ? ' said Olive eagerly, for with all her
heart she too longed to go there once more.

Well, I was woefully disappointed ! From
my recollection, I expected to find a perfectly
beautiful village, with fields and woods, and
everything else, far prettier than could be found
elsewhere.'

And you mean to say you did not ? ' she
exclaimed impatiently.

Yes ; it was a very poor commonplace
village, and I was grievously disappointed I I
was vexed that I had gone to see it, but the
same misfortune would most likely befall me if
I saw her.'

Don't try to see her ! Keep away from
her ! I am quite of your way of thinking,' cried
Olive, irretrievably piqued by his words. It
was the slight to her dear Austerfield which had
finally done this. She could partly forgive what
he had said of herself, for conscience told her
that there was a great deal of truth in it ; but
there could be no foundation for what he had
said of that dear place, and she felt as if she

could never forgive him. If he did not think
Austerfield beautiful, there must be some
great want in himself.

Ugly as the place is,' said she, rather bitterly,
after a short pause, ' you were able to
make a beautiful drawing of it.'

'Ah, I shall always think that particular
spot beautiful,' he answered. 'It is astonishing
what associations will do for a place ! '

Enjoy your associations ! ' thought Olive ;
dwell on your sentimental recollections undisturbed.
You might have had the reality back,
if you had liked. You might have had me as
your true and loving friend.' He did not wish
it, so there was no more to be said. From the
instant he had said that, she had given up all
thought of revealing herself to him. This was
the meeting for which she had once longed so
ardently !

Let me help you,' said he ; he saw her
struggling with a large flake of snow, which  in
spite of all precautions, had found its way into
the carriage. It was on her shoulder, and ashe
stooped to remove it, he saw how much
more ill she looked than before. ' I was

VOL. II. K

li oping that you were better ; I am afraid the
nonsense I have been talking has tired you. I
have been very thoughtless ; is there nothing
I can do for you ? '

'Nothing,' she said, passing a weary hand over
an aching forehead; 'nothing at all, thank you.*

You will perhaps feel better if we do not
speak. I have been foolish.'

I think we had better not talk, perhaps,'
said Olive sadly, for she was wishing with all
her heart that she had not seen him. ' I beg
your pardon,' she added, with some consciousness
that he might be reading her thoughts ; 'I
only say so because I am all at once feeling
very tired.' rr ,

'Oh, do let me go and try to bring your
mother back to you .'

Olive shuddered. Anyone rather than
Lady Brooke ! She shook her head.

'Then, your maid? I will make a thorough
search for her.'

I am afraid I must ask you to bring her 
that ib, if you can.'

I will take great care of her,' replied he ,;
but come she must.'

Olive's ghastly face made him wretchedly
anxious. He got out, and found the way more
blocked up than ever. The driver, stoker, and
some of the men were sitting huddled up in one
of the carriages, into which he dived in search
of Pearson. They were all smoking as if their
lives depended on it.

Ye seem an unco supple young man,' said
a voice from the depths of the van. ' How do
ye manage to get about sae weel ? '

I have to do as well as I can. How long
will it be before some help comes ? '

That's the verra thing we want to ken. I
hope nothing's come to the laird. I'm feared
he has na managed to get on to Blair Angus.'

You surely don't think the poor fellow is
lost in the snow ? ' asked Morrison.

'God only kens. It's a terrible night!
Lord save us all ! It's a thousand to ane if he
was to his journey's end ! '

Then where is he ? '

Somewhere twixt here and Blair Angus ina
snow-wreath.'

He should hae attempted to lift his fit
out o' the wheel-tracks,' said one.

Ma sang ! he could lift it if lie tried ! I
saw him start. The shaw was up to his waist ;
he never did lift his jSt up, the saw was over
deep for that, he just shoved the left fit after
the right, and so on, all the way.'

That would be well enough so long as
there was a wheel-track,' observed another ;
but look how fast that would fill up ! '

Well, I hope he's a' right. He's a strong
eneuch chief. Ma certe, but it needs a stave
heart for sic work as he has afore him this
night ! '

'He is long in coming back. It's my belief
he has met with an accident,' said a voice
from a dark corner.

Nay, there's nae need to mak' sae sure o'
that. The goods may be somewhere just hint
lis, and that would hae to be howkit out afore
any relief train could win to us, and faith an
E. P. and an 0. P. ought to like left Blair
Angus since we got ourselves stickit fast
here.'

I tell you what,' said Morrison ; ' some of
us might go a little way along the line, for this
relief train may be on its way ; at all events,

we might get some food from it, and let the
men know where we are.'

What's the use ? ' cried the men unanimously.
' Just foolhardiness ! We'd be
moored in the saw ! When the laird went,
if he had nouclit else, he had the wheel-tracks
to guide him ; there's nothing o' that left
now.'

There might be some sense in trying sic a
thing if it was a matter o' life or death  not
unless ! '

Morrison pursued this search for Pearson.
At last he found her in a corner of a first class
carriage, whither she had been conveyed by
some of the railway servants for greater warmth
and comfort. He had no difficulty in persuading
her to go to her young mistress. He
helped her on her way with the greatest care
and kindness : but when they reached the
carriage, and he had put Pearson into it, he
was startled by a loud scream  Olive had
fainted.

CHAPTEE XXII.

O, for a horse with wines I  Cymheliiie.

She is dead, sir! ' cried Pearson, throwing up
her arms in despair. 'Just look!' and when
he did look, he was afraid that the maid's
words were true. He soon recovered the first
shock sufficiently to know that it was all but
impossible that this should be the case, and
that she had probably only fainted. With
Pearson's help he raised her, dragged out the
seats of the carriage, and made a bed for her
to lie on. The rug which he had fastened upto
protect her had fallen down, and now a fine
shower of snow was descending lightly on her
wan face. 'Leave it,' said he; 'it will help to
revive her.'

He chafed her hands. He found Lady
Brooke's eau-de-cologne and poured some on
her temples, but nothing seemed to restore her.

While doing this, he was nearer to her, and saw
her features much more distinctly than the
darkness had hitherto allowed him to do. Ill
as she looked, the hues of her face were very
line, and he could see that, under other circumstances,
she must be remarkably beautiful.
Something in these lines stirred an old memory.
Pshaw ! ' said he to himself, ' it is because we
have been talking of these bygone days.'

Go on rubbing her hands  do all you can.
I must go from carriage to carriage to see if I
can find a doctor in the train, or, at any rate,
some one who has some brandy,' said he to the
maid.

There was no doctor, no brandy, there was
not even a fragment of food. Everything of
that kind had been consumed hours before.
He went back to the carriage where the driver
and men were, and asked abruptly, ' Does anyone
here know anything of the neighbourhood
where we are ? How far is it to the nearest
place where a doctor is to be found ? '

The only one who happened to know the
place was an Englishman, the others came from
farther north. 'If this is Macgillivray's Gap,

as we reckon it is, we are a good two mile and
a half from doctors and doctors' help. Auch-
terlundie is the nearest place to get it, and it
lies about half a mile off the line.'

On which side  windward, or leeward ? '
The speaker, who was close by the door,
pointed to the windward side with a short
stumpy pipe, and added, ' There is a short cut
by the fields, but it's past finding now. I know
the place well ; I've a sister married there.'

Is this village in the same direction as the
guard went ? '

10, he went down the line ; this is up.'
All right ! Will anyone go with me ? '
asked Morrison, hurriedly. ' A lady is very ill
it may be a case of life and death.'

No one refused, but no one offered to go.
One said it would be a corbie's errand, which
allusion to Noah's first unsuccessful messenger
was lost on Morrison, who was anxiously waiting
their decision. They shuffled about uneasily
on the seat, and said it was a terrible
wild night, and it would surely be better to
wait until daylight; any of them would be
willing to go then. 'If I go myself,' said

Morrison, ' how am I to know where Auchter-
auntie is? There is no station there, you say?'

There is a signahnan's cabin, but nae doctor
would come back wi' ye if ye did manage
to win sae far, which is na likely.'

I don't know  he might ; at all events, he
woukl give me some brandy, or medicine, or
something. One can't let a fellow-creature die
without some help. Can anyone furnish me
with a lantern ? '

A lantern was found. He pulled up the
collar of his coat, and prepared to set out ; but
first he went back to see if the poor girl whom
he had just left had recovered. She was still
unconscious, but showed signs of coming round.

Sir,' said the maid, ' it's my belief that it is
only Weakness. She is faint for want of food.
She ought to have a good glass of wine. She
is as cold as ice ! It's just miserable to have
nothing to give her.'

 I will go and bring her something, but I
shall be a long time in returning  ought you
not to have her mother with you ? I'll bring
her.'

Lor, sir, no ! She'd want far more looking

after than the poor young lady. She'd be ina
hundred troubles about the harm she herself
would take if this and that and the other wasn't
got for her  that's her way. Just leave her
where she is, I am not afraid of being alone.'

It was now nearly eleven o'clock. Without
more delay, Morrison set out. The first plunge
into the snow took him up to the waist, and he
found it absolutely impossible to move farther.
A little reflection made him work his way to
the windward side, and there, as he expected,
he found the snow hard enough to walk on ;
but he had now the whole force of the wind to
contend with, and pitiless it was ! One terrific
blast after another came raging down from the
heights on his right hand, bearing with it a
deluge of cuttingly cold snow. It forced its
way down his neck, it filled his ears, and
blinded his eyes. Not a star, of course, was to
be seen, not the faintest vestige of a track to be
discovered ; only one land-mark guided him on
his way  the telegraph-posts. Whenever he
came to one of these, he knew that he was
going right, and thus he slowly made his way
onwards. He was perfectly aware that he

carried his life in his hand  but one false step,
or fall into a snow-drift, and there would belittle
chance of his being able to extricate himself.
In spite of the heat of the flame within it,
the glass of his lantern was constantly becoming
obscured by snow, which in two or three minutes
congealed and turned into dull ice  he was
continually obliged to stop to clear this. No
doubt this fact accounted for his having seen no
lamps when, in search for the maid, he came
to the end of the train. Two red ones had
been burning there, but were now deeply buried,
or extinguished.

The exertion of walking kept him thoroughly
warm ; only his face, ears, neck, and
wrists suffered from exposure to the wind and
snow, and they suffered frightfully. Hurry ashe
might, he made very slow progress,, for the
wind steadily opposed his advance. No beautiful
place or object seen by him during the
whole course of his life had ever given him
half the pleasure that the sight of a telegraph-post
now did. One by one, as he passed them,
he uttered a fervent exclamation of gratitude.
They were the sole link between himself and

safety. They were white now with snow, but
he had to keep very close to the side of the
line where they were, for in this blinding drift
he could not see any object that was even six
feet from him. He might perhaps have got
half-way to Auchterlundie, when he came to a
part where the line ran upon a higher level,
and was consequently entirely free from snow
Every single grain had been blown off it. He
set this feet firmly down on this, and began to
stamp, to shake off all the snow which had collected
about his feet and legs, when the wind,
suddenly blew out his lantern, and struggling
onwards  for he felt this complete exposure to
the wind was almost worse than the snow itself
he was caught by a strong gust, half blinded
by the sand and gravel it was carrying with it,
blown off the line down the embankment, and
flung into a deep drift at the bottom. Somehow,
he did not seem to sink very deep into it !
There was an instant of the most intense
physical relief  all battling was for the moment
over, and he stopped to recover breath. He
soon found, however, that he had no time to
lose, for he was rapidly being covered over.

He had been flung across a large railway-gate
at the foot of the embankment, and this had
saved his life. The wind-swept snow hardened
instantly  he tried it and found that it would
now bear him. Having gained his feet, he
stood for a minute to recover himself, and
even during that short space of time saw the
hole made by his body while he was lying
across the gate fill up. ' That might have been
my grave ! ' thought he with a slight shudder.
He did not much miss his lantern, for the snow
gave out a kind of light which was enough for
him. He struggled back to the line, planting
each step with extreme care ; he did not, however,
risk a second violent attack from the
wind, but crept along the bare ground on hands
and knees. The part of the line which was
thus cleared was about a sixteenth of a mile in
length, then he came to the snow again, and
lead to fight his way through it as before. It
was a hard and terrible battle, but at last he
came to the signalman's cabin. It was beneath
the embankment, covered with snow, and Morrison
only saw it by mere chance, for, near as it
was, the light burning inside it was almost invisible

in the storm. ' I'll cry out,' said lie to
himself, ' and make him hear me ; ' but when
he opened his hips to do so, he found he could
make no sound  his voice had dwindled down
to a feeble whisper. He tried the snow  it
bore him, and he painfully made his weary way
to the door, knocked loudly, and waited.

Who's there ? ' cried a voice through the
keyhole.

Morrison did his utmost to return an answer
which was audible, but could not, and had to
content himself with knocking again. The
door was opened, and he staggered in.

God be about us ! Who are ye, and what
are ye doing out here on sic a night as this ? '
cried the man, and then he turned to the door ;
but short as had been the time spent in putting
this inquiry, he found great difficulty in clearing
the hinges and doorway so as to shut it.
When at last he succeeded in doing so, and
turned to look at the stranger who thus claimed
his hospitality, he was startled at the expression
in Morrison's face. It was awful  so stony and
so rigid. One side of his head was literally
covered with a sheet of solid ice.

For God's sake sit down, sir ! Sit douii on
the ground afore the fire and get yourself
thawed  Ye'II be losing your ear if ye cinna
mind what ye're about ! '

That was what Morrison was afraid of;
there was, indeed, every reason to fear it. He
sat down in front of a warm fire, and gradually
the heat brought off the whole mask of ice with
the impression of the sufferer's ear moulded
into it as exactly as if it had been done by a
sculptor in plaster.

Never ye fash yersel wi' looking at that ! '
exclaimed the signalman, seeing Morrison holding
it flat on one palm and gazing at it in rueful
wonder. ' Here's a cup of scalding het coffee
for ye. Swallow it down, man, and ye'll feel
the good of it directly. Come, there's nothing
like coffee unless maybe it's whisky, and that's
forbidden here, ye ken, and I havana ae drap
in the hut.'

Morrison drank the coffee, broke the icicles
off his hair and beard, and cleared his neck of
snow. It was now thoroughly mixed with ice.
His sleeves were full of it, his pockets also, and
so were the tops of his boots. He sighed a

heavy sigh of relief, which made his chest feel
as if pierced by a hundred knives at once. He
tried to speak, but still could only whisper, and
it was painful to him even to do that.

What in the name of Heaven's brocht ye
foot on sic a like night as this ? It's neither fit
for man nor beast.'

I was forced to come out. I have come
from a train that is snowed up two miles farther
down the line.'

Ay, my mate was wondering what had
come billet.'

Well, I've got here, but I must go farther
yet.'

The deil's in the man ! ye mean to tempt
Providence ! Deil a fit can ye steer out of
this the night  it's mair than ye can dae, or
anybody else ! Hae some mair coffee, and just
bide whaup ye are till daylight, when my mate
is sure to be here to relieve me. Ye ken it's
again the laws for anybody to come into my
place here, but there's nothing doing the night,
and nobody will be ony the wiser for it.'

Morrison shook his head and pulled out his
watch. As might have been expected, the cold

had stopped it. He looked at the large clock
in the cabin. It was two o'clock. lie had
spent nearly three hours in walking two
miles !

Duma be in sic a hurry ! The wind is
getting loud a bit, I do believe.'

The wind was o-oina: down, but still it was
very strong. ' I must not stop,' replied he ;
your coffee has restored my strength. I must
oro on to Auchterlundie at once. I want a
doctor. Do you know whereabouts in the
place the doctor lives . '

'He lives at the stir end o' the town, but
that's no saying much, for Auchterlundie is a
wee bit place. He's maybe no just at his ain
loose the night. I jealous it's mast likely
ye'll find him at mine. I expect he's wi' my
wife, for she was requiring his services. Ma
loose is the third ye come to on the left-hand
side. Ye'll see a licht in the wind. Gang
round the cabin when ye gae out, and hand
wa' to your left hand for the feck of a hunger
yards, or maybe twa.'

Morrison rose to go. He was vexed at the
loss of time, but this brief delay had been in-vol.

II. L

suitable. He offered the man half a- crown, but
this he refused indignantly, and said,

'Tak' this muckle stick in yer hand, yell
need it ; pit a stench heart to the see' brae, and
God gang wi' ye. If ye come back this way,
ye can tell me whether my wife has got a lassie
or a laddie. Ye maun mind tak' tent that the
saw bears ye weel eneuch whaup the wind
catches and hardens it, but ye'll gang through
it like led if ye set yer fit on it in a place
that's anyways protect.'

Morrison had observer] this fact for himself.
He now used this knowledge carefully as he
crept round the deeply embedded cabin. The
village was only half a mile off. He traversed
this part of the way much more quickly than
that which he had gone before, but nevertheless
it was no easy journey. He looked out for
the promised light most eagerly, but the night
must have improved very much or he could
have had no chance of seeing this, unless close
to it. After some time, he thought he did see
a feeble glimmer, but whenever he most
thought so, a fresh gust of wind and snow
seemed to cut him off from all hope of this kind.

There was a light ! It was in what on any
other occasion would have been an upper
window of a small house. Now a hill of snow
sloped up to it, but when Morrison tried to
scale this, he found that it was on the wrong
side of the house, and that the snow was soft
He hastily retreated, and stood considering
what he could do to summon the inmates, now
that he had no power to raise his voice to call
them, or to make any sound louder than a
husky whisper. The signalman had put a stick
into his hand when he left the cabin. Morrison
now tried to climb up the snow on the wind-raked
side of the cottage, and to lean round the
corner, and tap at the window where the light
was visible, with his stick, but unfortunately it
was too short, and he was terribly afraid of
overbalancing himself, or of finding some weak
spot in the snow on which he was standing,,
and falling into the deep drift by the other-side
of the house, where he would have to lie-without
hope of help, now that his voice had
left him and he could cry for none. Father
than descend without doing anything here, he 
contented himself with minor hard blows at

the walls of the room whence the light
proceeded. ' If it were but a London house ! '
thought he, calling to mind a night not so very-long
ago when he had seized on a hammer and
a large nail to hang up a precious and newly-acquired
' Liber ' proof, and the second or third
stroke of the hammer had driven a brick out
of the wall into the passage on the other side,
with much less difficulty than noise. His heart
well-nigh failed him when repeated blows
seemed to call forth no answer  bring no help.
What could he do at such an hour as this at
houses where all were sound asleep? At last
the window opened, and a woman put her head
out to see what could be the matter. She
cried, 'Who's there ? ' but alas ! Morrison could
not bring forth any sound from his lips which
could by any chance reach her ears. The wind,
abated though it Alas, was still louder a hundred
times than his faint whisper  and how
this whisper hurt him !

Before she shut the window and left him to
his fate, he had the lucky thought to show his
stick round the corner where she was, and aim
one stroke more at the wall.

Mercy on us ! ' cried she ; ' who's there ? '

The doctor  he was there  came downstairs
at once, opened the door and forced a
passage out, and then Morrison made his presence
known.

Come inside,' said the doctor. ' Drink
some of this,' was his next speech, as he poured
out nearly a tumblerful of whisky. It tasted
like pleasantly flavoured water, but Morrison
was mightily refreshed by it. Tien he told
his errand.

'I was just going home,' said the doctor.
I'll come with you if you want me. As you
say, the wind has certainly gone down. From
what you tell me, I have no doubt the train is
stopped in Macgillivray's Gap  I know the
place very well ; but it would have to be a
very urgent case which would make me venture
there if the weather was still as bad as it
was half an hour ago ! I canna, for the life of
me, conceive how you ever got here ! You
have come a good three miles in the deep
snow, without so nuich as a landmark ! We
can wait a quarter of an hour or so, I suppose.
Every minute makes it safer. I don't mind a

little snoAV  I'm used to that  it's the wind
that's the devil and a' to contend with ! '

'Every minute may make it better for us,
but it makes it worse for the poor young lady
said Morrison, much aggrieved ; ' and, of course,
I have been very long on my way.'

But what can I do for her, when I am
there ? From all you tell me, I should say that
there's nothing the matter with her except that
she wants food and warmth, and getting away
from that snow-trap. I'll tell you what I'll
do. I'll go home now  it on't take me ten
minutes both to go and come back. I'll rouse
up my housekeeper, and make her get a warm
bed ready, and some supper, and we will bring
the lady and her mother here across the fields 
that's the best thing we can do for her ! '

By the fields ? '

Yes. The moment the wind is down, that
will be as good a road as you can have ! The
wind will have swept every bit of snow ofi"
them. You and I will go that way now, and
see if it is practicable.'

I don't like losing sight of the telegraph-posts,'
said Morrison.

Oh, you may trust yourself to me. If
the wind lets us go that way at all, it will let
U8 go safely. There'll be no snow there,
I tell you, but it will lie for days in the cuttings
and hollows just as deep as it does
now.'

Morrison still demurred. ' The stoker told
me there was a short cut, but said it was not
safe to use it.'

No more it was then ! The wind would
have blown you away like a dried leaf; but
you won't understand that a tempest like this
sweeps as clean as a new broom ; and when
once it is over, sensible folks have nothing todo
but profit by its work. Now I'm off; get
ye something to eat while I am away. Here,
Mysie, Maggie, lassies, one of you, come here
and attend to the gentleman. I'll give some of
the people in the village a hint that they may
have visitors before long ; I dare say lots of
them in the train there will be glad enough to
get away when once we have shown them that
there is a way.'

You will bring some brandy with you, and
any restoratives you are likely to want ? '

Brandy! You Southron all fly to brandy,
where we should just take a pit of whisky.'

Morrison liked Dr. Cameron's looks and
quick resolute ways, and was thoroughly inclined
to trust him. He trusted him still more
when, in an incredibly short space of time considering
all impediments, he saw him arrive
with two men bearing two stout spades and an
arm-chair. ' That's for your sick teddy,' said
Dr. Cameron. ' We will carry her here like a
queen ! '

'We shall have to be on our guard,'
whispered Morrison, ' or we shall have the
mother taking possession of the chair, instead
of the daughter. The mother is, without
exception, the most selfish creature I ever
saw ! '

We will take care of that ; but mind you,
I do not like your going out again  you are
not lit for it, and I should not have allowed
you to stir if I had not been forced. I know
my way to Macgillivray's Gap well enough, but
I don't know the young teddy ; and as for looking
out for one who seems to be ill, there won't
be many in the train to-night who will look

well. I suppose,' he added with a smile, ' you
want me to get this particular one in whom
you are interested ? '

Yes, but I never saw her before this evening.
She is a perfect stranger to me.'

Well, we will take every possible care of
her. You have risked your life for her, at all
events.'

All this was said while they were making
their way as best they could to the blocked-up
train. Every thing was as Dr. Cameron had
foretold. Their path now led across what
would in daylight have been green fields. Not
one vestige of snow was to be seen except in
the ditches and hollows. There it was deep
enough to take them twice overhead. The
wind was slowly dying away, and though from
time to time it still blew fiercely, there was a
kind of periodicity about its gusts which enabled
them to ward off its attacks, and, most important
of all now, to save their lanterns. At last
Dr. Cameron said, ' We are close on the Gap, I
think ; if so we shall have to use our spades.
We must make our way on to the line somewhere
where the cutting is low.' Morrison

was actually seizing on a spade to help, but the
doctor very quickly put a stop to that.

They reached the train safely, found the
carriage and Olive, though they would have
had some difficulty in doing this if they had
been without their lanterns, for by this time
the slender allowance of oil in the lamps in the
carriages was quite exhausted, and all was dark.
She was perfectly conscious now, but very weak
and ill. Almost everyone in the train joyfully
snatched at this chance of escape from imprisonment,
and large was the procession which returned
to the village.

It was several days before Olive was well
enough to be moved from Dr. Cameron's house.
Of all those who had suffered, she was the last
to recover and be taken home. When the
time for departure drew near, she said to Lady
Brooke, ' We shall pass very near Austerely ;
will you leave me there for a month with my
Aunt Lettice ? I should very much like to goto
her,'

Oh, no, it is not at all a nice place for you.
You must come with me to London.'

Ob, do let me stay there. Once, I know.
Uncle Richard thought it was not well for me
to be at Austerfield ; but he need have no fear
of leaving me there now  I am older and wiser

CHAPTER XXIII.

Full many a shaft at random sent
Finds mark the archer little meant.

In the western and north-western districts of
London, house after house may be seen which
must by its deviation from regularity and convention
drive the Board of Works to despair.
Corners jut out where no corners should be,
queer-shaped windows trespass on the roofs,
and long slits of windows, closely shuttered,
baffle all conjecture as to their use, until you
discover that you are in an artists' quarter, and
that the big windows are to give them light to
paint their pictures, and the slits are used to
send forth into the world canvases too large
for any ordinary mode of egress, windows of
the latter kind never being opened except on
sending-in day,' when the work of the year
is carted away to judgment. Of late, artists'

houses have become as much show places as
old Italian palaces, each painter setting the
seal of his individual taste on all about him ;
and in many cases their rooms are perfect
storehouses of treasures brought back from
distant sketching-grounds. William Morrison's
studio in Chaucer Street was not by any means
luxurious or magnificent  he belonged to the
despised branch of the profession  but still it
was very pretty, though he himself was in the
habit of regarding it only as a suitable background
to pictures whose colour composition
demanded the utmost harmony both in the
artist's mind and surroundings. The walls were
hung with some quiet-looking, faded old Italian
tapestry, and the floor was covered with a very
pretty Persian carpet. There was not a great
deal of furniture in the room, but there were a
large number of the water-bottles of other
countries  the long-necked, stout-bodied, red,
green, and yellow pitchers which, having gone
to fountains in other lands for many and many
a year without being broken, have at last come
here to supply a number of houses with a touch
of picturesqueness. Liber proofs. Turner engravings,

and Merton etchings hung about, or
lay about waiting till some one had time to
find a place for them ; but except for these,
and a few other things, and two or three
comfortable chairs and a sofa, the room was
a work-place, and every corner a labyrinth
of half-finished pictures, picture-frames, and
easels.

Morrison himself was hard at work, getting
some water-colour drawings ready for a winter
exhibition, and a splendid tabby cat, which
was a great favourite of his, was sitting on the
table by him, blinking affectionately, as he
dipped his brush in the colours, and occasionally
putting out a soft tentative paw to play with
it. She was perfectly aware when he brought
out a new drawing to work on, and always
stood up with a Moorish-arch-like stretch to
look at it, then having given her sanction to
the undertaking, she sat down again in sleek,
velvety beauty, until once more disturbed by
some novelty. He talked a great deal to hers
and for the most part she listened with pleased
attention, only opening and shutting her 
show good will and companionship; but

when he put a tone of extra urgency into his
speech, she made the round of his table with
lier tail up, rubbing herself against his drawing-board
as she passed it, and then dropped down
iigain into her old place.

Botheration ! Puss ! Who is that ? ' cried
lie, as lie heard a loud peal at the bell. Puss
jerked up her ears, but did not seem able to
answer otherwise.

Mr. Ambergreen wishes to see you, sir 
only for a moment, on business,' added the
servant, seeing Morrison's look of impatience.
Aberdeen was a man to whom it was more
trouble to say no than yes, so Morrison uttered
a discontented, ' Let him come in.'

I only came to ask you a few questions,
my dear Morrison,' said he ; 'I know you are
busy, but you won't mind me, I am sure. Goon
with your Avork, please, just as if I were
not here.' That was much more easily said
than done, and Ambergreen himself was a
man who could not have painted a stroke if
anyone was with him, to save his life.

I am going to send in for competition to
the Old Water-colour Society. Tell me what

one lias to do to get elected  or does one do
anything ? Will they elect me on my reputation?
That would be the best way.'

Never perhaps in Morrison's life had he
opened his eyes so wide as he did now. ' But
you don't paint in water-colours ! ' cried he.

No, but I am going to  the election is not
till spring. There is ]plenty of time before it
comes ois ; only, you must tell me what steps
to take.'

Send in three very good drawings, framed
close.'

Never mind about the frames '

No, if you have never painted watercolours
before, I do not think that the frames
will be the great difficulty,' said Morrison,
laughing good-naturedly.

You may laugh, but I'll do it. I am an
oil painter, of course, but Avhat does the medium
signify ? A man who can paint in oils can
paint in watercolours ; but you are sure that
they will expect me to send in ?  they ought
to know my work very well  do you really
think it is necessary P '

Yes, indeed I do. Why, they might elect

you on your merit, and you might yourself be
placed in a difficulty  might discover that
water-colours were not your forte, I mean.'

Oh, there is no chance of that  I must
do some. Morte is always asking me for
water-colours ; he says he could place everything
I did, if I would only let him have a lot.
Besides, look what a bother oil-colours and
canvases are in the country, when you are
doing landscape.'

Landscape ! ' exclaimed Morrison ; ' but
you never paint landscape.'

Not paint landscape ? What do you call
that acre of mud that I put my last saint upto
the waist in ? You fellows are so abominably
cheeky about your poor little mixtures of mist
and mountain, and your precious passages of
mystery. When I paint anything, I like everyone
to know what it is. It did a lot of people
who always go off to German baths no end of
good to look at my mud.'

Well, but the chief interest of your picture
 the point and poetry of it, I mean  did
not lie in the mud.'

Eh, I am not so sure of that. But I have
TOL. u. M

painted three things that you voulcl call landscapes,
while you have been away, and sold
them too. It's queer what a fancy the public
has for pictures of that kind ; have them they
will ; but that's not why I have been doing
them. I don't care a rush for the public ; I
paint landscape because I consider a man is
only half an artist who can't paint all round.'

Paint all round if less won't satisfy you,
but it will take you some time to learn your
facts  a lifetime, I should say, for a very small
group of them. It's not so easy as you seem
to think, by a long way.'

Well, I won't say it is easy, at any rate
not before you ; but I'll be hanged if I can see
how anyone who has been trained to draw the
figure, and has had to use his brains to invent
figure-subjects, can find any difficulty in sitting
down and painting a landscape. What have
you to do but paint it ? There it is, all ready
for you  you have not got to imagine anything.
Ideas are not wanted, we all know.'

If you could but know what awful nonsense
you are talking ! ' cried Morrison.

No, I am not ; you may not be such a
stickler for the real thing, and nothing but the

real thing, as some are, but I am sure I have
heard you say often enough that Native wants
no improving that we can give her, and I can
see any amount of landscape-men now-a-days
working on regular Ordnance surveyor's principles
of industry and accuracy ; so, where are
you to slip in your ideas if you have them ?
That's not the way I'll paint. My notion is
quite different. Generalise your forms well,
choose good broad oppositions of simple tones,
look to your values  that's what you want for
landscape-painting ; it's not creative work, you
know. And then, there's no doubt about it, a
man should be able to paint everything. There
should be no divisions of labour whatever in our
profession. I like an artist who practises every
kind of art. Brixton is a man of that sort 
you know him. Last Monday I went in, and
he was japanning his grandmother's tea-caddy ;
to-day he was painting away like a dragon at
his " Lifting the Veil of the Infinite." '

Morrison shrugged his shoulders, and said
that for his own part he feared that lie would find
life too short to do even one thing well, in the
narrowest range that he could find for himself.

M 2

Nonsense ! Eead the lives of the old
masters ! they knew best. Everything that
could be done by tools was done by them, from
chasing a little cup to carving a great statue ;
and as for lines, it did not matter to them
whether they busied themselves with those of a
picture or of a fortification.'

All right ! If you take the old masters for
your guides, you lead better paint your landscapes
according to Botticelli's notions, and then
you'll produce them fast enough.'

I don't remember what that glorious old
fellow said en the subject,' replied Ambergreen.
Tell me.'

He says that if you throw a sponge filled
with several different colours against a wall,
you will find that the stain it makes will be a
very fair landscape.'

That sounds absurd, of course, to you, but
I dare say there is a great deal of truth in it.
However, I am going to set to work in the
regular, lawful, and approved way, and we shall
see how I succeed.'

Try it,' said Morrison gaily. ' I'm sure I
don't want to hinder anyone doing what he

thinks he can do well ; but you never seem to
think that clouds and trees and mountains
require as much knowledge as figures do, and
that each is a study by itself.'

That's what you landscape-men all say ;
but I am quite sure that, after a man has gone
through the training that I have, he can paint
anything.'

He can paint mountains, and skies, and
waterfalls, no doubt, and never know how ill
he has done them. The chances are that he
will sin against some law in every inch of canvas
he covers, and produce a work as ridiculous to
anyone who knows anything about it as a
figure-picture would be in which the artist had
painted people's mouths in the centre of their
foreheads.'

Well, come and gridiron me when the
thinf] is done. Here is some one coming to
disturb you. I don't call it at all fair of people
to come and use a painter's time by daylight
when there is so little of it. But they will
do it, and it is very selfish. Oh, it is Mr.
Ardrossan ! ' -'

How do you do, Ambergreen ? ' said that

gentleman ; ' bow are you, Morrison ? I have
just returned from Scotland, and am happy
to tell you that I had a better journey home
than you had. You really had a terrible experience
! '

Morrison is just the kind of fellow who
would be delighted with such an experience,'
exclaimed Ambergreen ; ' he likes study, and
seems to be able to get it out of things which
would kill most people. He stayed at St. Hilda's,
a horrible fishing-place, last winter, hoping to
see storms, and wrecks, and horrors of that
kind, and gave his landlord a standing order to
telegraph to him whenever a hurricane was expected.
Such a fellow does not deserve to rest
quietly in a good bed; he ought to pass the
winter lashed to the mast of a Greenland
whaler.'

Mr. Ardrossan smiled at both the young
men. Ambergreen continued :

Now, I tell him that he would paint a
thousand times better with half the knowledge,
and be ever so much more poetical if he trusted
more to his imagination and less to his study of
the fact.'

It is a large word which you are using
when you talk of imagination so lightly,' said
Mr. Ardrossan.

Oh, don't come down on me about it,' cried
the light-hearted Ambergreen. ' I know exactly
what I mean. Morrison's work is delicious 
tender and delicate, and all that sort of thing,
but he should knock his subject about more,
and not be in such bondage to realities.'

'Do you object, then, to a landscape painter
being in bondage to nature, as a lover to his
mistress ? '

Oh, I know nothing about that view of
landscape painting, but I am sure it's very easy
to have a deal too much of nature. To me one
kind of nature is much the same as another 
none of it is worth much without figures. Of
course we all know that there is an imaginative
quality in our friend's work, but he stifles it
with his truths.'

Thank you,' said Poison. 'Ambergreen
and I, Mr. Ardrossan, have very different notions
of what imagination means. He won't
call anything imaginative which gives us the
life of to-day in its full vividness  in its ugliness

if you like, only conquering that ugliness by
beauty of art. If he paints figures, he despises
mere men and women, and has to go back to
early times for saints, or savage kings and
queens ; and when he paints his landscapes, he
will be sure to put nymphs and goblins in them.
Now, to my mind, imaginative work consists, not
in altering or forsaking the thing that is, but in
giving its full character, with the artist's strong
feeling of sympathy and beauty super '

'Oh, do have mercy ! ' cried Ambergreen ;
I'll run away if you talk in that way. I like
to feel on Avhat kind of ground I am standing,
and I never do when conversation soars so. I
was once waltzing with a lady at a ball, and
what do you think she said when we stopped to
take breath?  " Mr. Ambergreen, pray tell me
wdiat you think about the human minds" I
was more out of breath with that than with
the dancing.'

By-the-bye, Morrison,' exclaimed Mr. Ar-dross,
who was tired of Ambergreen, 'I
hope you are no worse for that terrible adventure
of yours. Were you long in recovering
your voice ? '

Oh, no a day or so. I should have got
it back sooner, I dare say, if I could have
stayed at Aucliterlundie ; but the place was
filled up with ladies, and all the men had to goto
the nearest town  not that night, of course,
but the next day.'

Wasn't it hard ? ' cried Ambergreen. ' My
poor friend here risked his life for a pretty lady,
and never saw her again ! '

 Risked my life ? ' cried Morrison ; ' I don't
know that it amounted to that ; had a disagreeable
walk, you mean, just as the guard had,
and he came safely through ; and as for the
lady, she was not much to look at, poor thing,
by the time we got her to Auchterlundie, nor
her mother either  not that I pitied her.'

Morrison ! ' cried Ambergreen, ' you are a
queer fellow, you really are ! He nearly loses
his life for a girl, and then he comes away by
the next train without so much as getting to
know her name ! Now I should expect all
kinds of things to spring out of such an adventure
as that.'

Oh, no ; her name is of no consequence tome
; and how could I get to know it ? Neither

she nor her mother could speak when I last saw
them. I mean, not unless it was absolutely
necessary ; besides, I think I very likely could
hear all about her by giving Mr. Ardrossan a
little trouble.'

'But what can I do?' said Mr. Ardrossan,
roused from the study of a drawing to which
he had abandoned himself.

This lady  I believe under less trying circumstances
she would have been very pretty 
had just been to Glen Duich to see your pictures.
She said you had shown her that thing you
have of mine. She was quite young, rather
tall, had dark hair, and '

Had she seen them just before the snowstorm
? '

Only just before  she said so.'

Then, it was Miss Brooke ! How strange
I never heard she had been in that train ! '

Miss Brooke ! Not Miss Ohve Brooke ? '
cried Morrison ; ' and yet I do think it was ! '

Of course it was. She was very beautiful? '

So far as I could judge, she was.'

Yes, you must have met Miss Brooke. She
came to Glen Duich with the Ellertons. She

was delighted with your picture, and asked
numbers of questions about you. She stood
over that sketch of yours, and looked quite
overcome by it.' Morrison was so amazed at
his own stupidity that lie coukl not speak.
How could he have failed to recognise her ? not
by her face, for the bad light would account for
his not doing that, even if ten years had not
changed her ; but he might have known who
she was by the questions she had asked, and
the interest she had shown. But not knowing
her was a trifle compared with having said
foolish and unkind things to her !

You amaze me ! ' he said. ' That Miss
Brooke, and I did not know her ! She and I were
friends years ago. I don't know what I shall
do. I said things to her which she will never
forgive ! Are you likely to see her ? '

I'll go and see her for you,' cried the irrepressible
Ambergreen, interrupting. ' Tell me
what you want said to her, and I'll say it. I
know her very well indeed. Didn't I paint her
as Saint Elizabeth of Hungary, with six penny-buns
in her pinafore ? '

Ambergreen, I do wi.'ih you would hold

your tongue ! ' exclaimed Morrison, between
laughter and vexation. But Ambergreen never
cared to please anyone but himself, and continued
: ' Yes, I did ; I married her to old
Logwood. He bought the picture while I was
painting it, so I made him sit for the King 
people do think such a great deal of the pictures
you paint for them when their owen
abominable faces appear in them ! Good morning,
Morrison. Good morning, Mr. Ardrossan.'

Good morning,' said Mr. Androssan. ' I
wonder you are not afraid to let me so much
behind the scenes. When you propose to put
me in a picture, I shall know what you mean.'

No, indeed you won't ! ' cried Ambergreen
gaily and by no means disconcerted. ' I'd give
anything for you in the picture I am doing now.
I am painting Sir Percival just catching a
glimpse of the Holy Grail, and I do not know
anyone in London who has such a face for Sir
Percival as you. You see I want the extremity
of refinement and earnestness, and the two
don't seem to go together in these days. Good
morning to you both. Good morning.'

His departure was a visible relief to Mr.

Ardrossan, who said : ' The secret of true happiness,
according to some folks, consists in
having nothing on your mind and nothing in it.
If that's true, Mr. Ambergreen ought to be a
happy fellow. But what a man to paint such a
subject ! Now that he has gone, let me have
the pleasure of seeing my pictin-e  that is, if
you have done anything to it.'

Very little. I have laid it in on the canvas.
You can get an idea of the composition, but
that's all. I can't get on with anything till
these things are out of the way. I wish to
goodness there were no exhibitions! This
working against time is the ruin of all art ! '

They went to the canvas on which the
ground-colours of the lime-tree picture were
carefully laid in, and as Morrison looked at it,
he thought, not of the little child of other days,
but of the pale, unhappy girl whose seeking
after sympathy and friendship he had so mercilessly
repelled. What insults he had heaped
on her, and how patiently she had borne them !
I like the suggestion of the picture immensely,'
said Mr. Ardrossan. ' The design is
simple, but remarkably original, and the colour

promises to be superb. You will make a magnificent
thing of it, I can see.'

I don't know I begin to be afraid  I
shall never '

My dear fellow, what can you find to be
afraid of? '

Of not being able to finish it with as much
pleasure as I had in beginning it. I may as
well confess  sin fact, I am horribly vexed with
myself, now that I know the lady of the snowstorm
was Miss Brooke ! Is it not strange ? I
used to play with her when we were both children,
and this field with the lime-tree was our
trysting-place ! '

Indeed I ' said Mr. Ardrossan, wondering
why Miss Brooke had been so silent on the
subject of this acquaintance.

Yes ; it was long ago, of course, and we
have entirely lost sight of each other ; but the
recollection was pleasant and very vivid, just
the thing to help me in painting a picture.'

Well ; when you did meet again, the circumstances
were romantic enough, surely? You
had the opportunity of showing yourself a hero,
and used it splendidly  you where in luck's way
altogether.'

The luck Alas very perverse, then ; she
knew me, was willing to be friends again, and
was leading me to talk of our old acquaintance,
and I  you would hardly believe it  was so
stupid as not to recognise her, if only by what
she said, and, unless I am dreaming it, insulted
her by speaking of her as a person whom I
never wished to see again, and of her family as
disreputable.'

Mr. Ardrossan's face wore a look of puzzled
sympathy. He credited Morrison with a spark
of genius, and watched him very kindly : the
snow-storm, he thought, must have been a very
exciting time.

Why on earth should you not wish to see
lier again ? '

Because I was a fool ! I was afraid I
should not like her as I used to do  that's all.
I heard she was very much changed, and I did
not wish to have my early dreams interfered
with. She used to be the cleverest, simplest,
loveliest little maiden that ever stepped ! '

I don't know what she used to be,' said
Mr. Ardrossan, ' and I don't wonder at your
being anxious to keep such an image unchanged;

but, I assure you, most people find her very
charming now  I do. She was bright, ready-witted,
wonderfully interested in all she saw,
especially in your pictures, my good sir ;
thoughtful, modest, and unselfish.'

Yes, she was unselfish ; I was struck by
that in the snow-storm. But, confound it, I
was an idiotic prig! Still, I never dreamt I
was talking to the lady herself; and then she
was determined to draw me out ; so I went on
without the least idea that anything depended
on my words.'

But you don't tell me how you happened
to have this strong feeling against knowing her.*

Oh, I looked on her as a mere worldly
fine lady. Two or three of my friends used to
meet her sometimes, and I was savage with
things I heard them say of her. For one thing,
Willoughby was engaged to dance with her at
some ball, and she threw him over for the sake
of a man with a title, telling a few falsehoods as
she did so, with an ease that was overwhelming.
So Willoughby said, and then I believed it, and
was disgusted ; but, now that I have seen her,
I know he must have made some mistake.'

Of course he must ! Falsehood is not in
her, and as for passing her life in gaiety and
worldliness, you forget that she probably has
no choice in the matter.'

I know  of course she has not  but I had
heard such stories ! There was one about her
going to Ascot with a lot of women who had
been divorced. That, luckily, was a thing I
could not speak of to her  but I know now
that it was not her fault, if she did go.'

Certainly not ! you may take my word for
that ! She has a mother, and a stepmother,
and a great many aunts, bat every one of themis
minus either a heart or a head.'

Morrison shrugged his shoulders. He knew
Mrs. Brooke, who had no head  he had seen
Lady Brooke, who was certainly without a
heart. ' I do not so much mind having told
her that I knew I should not like her, for if I
met her again I could easily counteract that by
letting her see that I did ; but how can she
ever forgive me for saying that her relations
were disreputable ? '

It was a pity you said that ! It's so pain-vol.

II. N

fully true ! You referred, of course, to the sad
story that we all know ? '

" The sad story we all know ? " What do
you mean ? I referred to no particular story
J know of none. I was only thinking of her
Uncle Vincent Raymond, and those disreputable
sons of his. You can't go anywhere without
hearing stories of them.'

Do you not know that Sir Chesterfield
Brooke's first wife was divorced  the present
Lady Brooke is not Miss Brooke's mother ? I
can't remember the story, but it was a bad one
on both sides. They are disreputable enough
in all conscience ! '

Morrison's distress was increased a hundredfold
by this ! It seemed such a wretched thing to
have embittered the life of a poor girl who was
unhappy already. ' And the worst is,' said he,
that there is no recalling such a speech as that,
and no apology can be offered.'

Write to her,' said his friend ; ' write to
her and apologise generally. I will speak to
her, too, if I have an opportunity. I should
like to bring you two together again pleasantly ;
besides, I want my picture.'

The only composition done in Morrison's
studio after Mr. Ardrossan left was a letter to
Miss Brooke, which was written again and
again, and did not turn out well after all. It
was so difficult to be neither too familiar nor
too distant. This is what was finally despatched
: 

Dear Miss Brooke, I have only past learnt from my kind
friend Mr. Ardrossan that some weeks ago a happiness was within
my reach which I have longed for for years, and that, just as it
might have been mine, I lost it by talking a great deal of folly.
I don't know how I could have been so stupid, and so untrue to
my real self, for with all my heart I have always desired to see
you again. I do not expect ever to do so, for our lives are passed
in very different ways ; but I wish to tell you, if you will for
once allow me to speak so, that whenever I think of you it is with
the deepest respect and regard, and that, from all I saw of you
on the very trying occasion to which I refer, I am convinced that,
were I once more to come within the range of your influence, it
would be as much a boon to me as of old. Even as it is, you
have done me good, for I cannot but remember and admire your
gentle patience with my vain, petulant, and most unkind and
untrue speeches about yourself. I humbly beg your pardon. I
assure you of my most respectful admiration and regard, and
though I shall probably never see you, I beg you to believe that
you have no truer friend than myself. If hereafter at any time
I can serve you, I beg you to look on me as your devoted and
faithful servant, and to command me at your wish.

William Keithley Morrison.

CIIAPTEE Xxii.

To make a sweet lady sad, is a sour offence.

Troilus and Cressida.

It was nearly a fortnight before Morrison
received any answer to his letter to Miss
Brooke, and then it was only a short note,
written in a hand which showed that she was
ill. This is what she said to him : 

Dear Mr. Morrison,  Thank you for the kindness which
prompted your letter to me. I will not deny that j-our words
pained me terribly at the time, but they were all true. I might
say that I am not quite so free to choose how my days shall be
spent as I was long ago when I knew you, but that only partly
excuses me. I will not say more than that it is perhaps not
quite easy for you to judge me. Good-bye. For the sake of old
times, I beg you to think a little more kindly of me, and not to
distress yourself by imagining that you have hurt me, for I shall
try to be the better for your words, and to forget their apparent
unkindness. Indeed I forgive you.  I remain your faithful
friend, Olive Brooke.

This letter made Morrison still more uncomfortable
than he had been before. He
wrote again, but received no answer. Day

after day passed, and each added to his vexation.
He could not settle to his work as he
wished, for he was tormented by the feeling
that he had behaved shamefully to one who
had always shown him kindness. That speech
about her family haunted him  it was so cruel
and so unnecessary ; so unfortunate too, for
this, his sharpest arrow, was one which he had
used in ignorance. What was this story ? He
was too little in society to know the disagreeable
histories with which some of the handsome,
well-dressed ladies and gentlemen who are its
brightest ornaments are dogged and weighted.
The story about Olive's mother might even bea
hundred times worse than he imagined it to
be, and the cruelty of his words thus a hundred
times greater. He wished he knew it. The
feeling of uncertainty as to the magnitude of
his offence was most uncomfortable  altogether,
he was in such a state of disquietude that he
could settle to nothing, and he thought he
would go and talk to Ambergreen. He did not
like Ambergreen to speak of Olive, but he had
no other means of information at his disposal,
and the sooner he knew the worst the better.

Ambergreen lived in Kensington. His house
was a work of art from the attic to the cellars
even the colour of the bricks of which it was
built had been carefully selected by the artist,
and not so much as a nail was ever knocked
into the walls without his personal supervision.
Each room was a study in itself, and was fitted
up so as to serve as one of a series of backgrounds
for forthcoming pictures. Morrison was
shown into a mediaeval dining-room, with a
large oak table whose surface was always well
scrubbed with sand. The floor was strewn with
rushes ; a wood fire was burning on the hearth,
and some ungainly seats were set in a wide
chimney-corner, on one of which he satdown, and
soon he was so absorbed in his thoughts that he
forgot how long he was kept waiting. Presently
Ambergreen ran in, palette in hand. He had
been painting Mrs. Bertie Warrington as Titania.

But your landscapes ? ' cried Morrison, when
he heard this.

Oh, her portrait will be a landscape,' said
he. ' There will be a jungle of flowering shrubs
and things behind her, and she will have to sit
on a bank.'

That is one of the very things I quarrel with
you figure-men most about. You paint a lot
of figures, and fill up three-quarters of your
canvas with them, and then you put an out-of-door
background, and think you have done a
landscape ! '

Oh, I'll do some landscapes with nothing
approaching to human interest in them  with
nothing living at all in them bigger than a blackbird.
I must, for Mrs. Warrington's husband
has given me a commission for one this very
morning. Come and tell me if you think I shall
make a good thing of her. Be quick, for
another beauty will be here in twenty minutes,
so we have no time to spare ! I must shove
Mrs. Warrington's face out of sight, or the other
poor lady won't do herself justice. It is such
fun to see how jealous they are of each other !
I stir each of them up to look bright, by subtly
well-placed anecdotes against the other.'

'You said you had painted Miss Olive
Brooke ? '

Yes, young man ; and if you lead had a
proper acquaintance with British Art, you would
not have got into such a mess as you have !

You ought to have known my picture, and then,
when you met the lady herself, you would have
behaved yourself better.'

Very true ; but I was not in London. Of
course I should have known it if I had been
here. What did you think of her ? '

She was a nice, sharp, jolly little girl, with
lots of fun in her, and such a face ! I did not
make half so much of her as I ought to have
done, for a novelist aunt was sitting over us all
the time I was painting, and she was bent on
putting me in a book ; so I was in a perpetual
fever, and afraid to open my lips.'

I want you to tell me the story about Sir
Chesterfield Brooke and his wife  can you
remember it ? '

Ambergreen put his head on one side and
tried to think, looking as he did so more like
a wicked bird than anything else, but he did not
seem able to recall it. 'I forget,' said he.
One story of that kind drives another out, and
there are such a lot of them. I heard such an
amusing one last night  I'll tell it to you.'

Oh, no ; tell me the one I want  that's quite
enough.'

Let me see, Chesterfield Brooke  lie is
rather a bad lot himself  married a Miss Aisle,
one of the Norfolk Aisles. She did not really
care for him, I believe  yes, now I know she
didn't  I've got the story  but her father talked
her into it, drove her into it, in fact  he was
afraid she was going to marry some poor fellow
without a sixpence. Things went on well
enough for a year or two, though I don't believe
she ever pretended to care for Chesterfield
Brooke  then they found that she was encouraging
this old lover of hers to come about her, and
meeting him in the park, and all kinds of places.
She even went to his rooms ; so Sir Chesterfield
he vas Captain Brooke then  got his divorce
easily enough, and married very soon after;
that was partly what made the thing so hard for
the poor woman, for he seemed to have his
second wife ready before he got rid of his first.
Still, when a man gets a wife like that, there's
nothing for it but the Divorce Court  and, by-the-bye,
it was worse than I have said  I was
fororettinfT. Her brother shot himself, and she
went mad ; but Master Chesterfield contented
himself with taking another wife  he may have

looked on that as an equivalent proceeding.
Jow, Morrison, I must let my lady come in 
an appointment is an appointment ! Good-bye
As may be readily conceived, this conversation
did not add to Morrison's happiness. He
had stabbed a poor girl who was deeply wounded
already. When he saw her she was evidently
ill and unhappy, and before he left her he had
done all he could to make her more so. The
position of oppressor of an unhappy defenceless
girl is not an enviable one, especially when she
is one who has a right to expect kindness from
you. He had repelled her friendship, he had
apparently twitted her with her mother's disgrace,
and he felt wretchedly uncomfortable
when he thought of it ! All this had come on
him because he had talked so imprudently in a
railway carriage ; but it seemed peculiarly hard
that he should suffer thus, for in truth he had
only given reins to his tongue because she,
whom it seemed so difficult to arouse, had been
willing, nay, even anxious, to talk on this one
subject, and had so often begged him to say
more, that he had yielded to please her. He
had yielded, but still he had only spoken half

the tripoli to her. He had let her know that he
owed a debt of gratitude to this little girl of
bygone days, for awakening the poetic instinct
in him, and showing him a way to escape from
the common, everyday kind of life to which
circumstances seemed to condemn him. So
much had she wrung from him by liard pressure ;
but he had kept from her that the aim of his
life for years had been to educate and raise
himself so far above the station in which he
was born that he might hereafter be able to
seek in marriage the daughter of a distinguished
Lilian general without being dismissed with
contempt. Up to the age of twenty, this had
been his ruling; thought. For Olive's sake he
had worked like a galley-slave, even at things
which he disliked ; for her sake he had shunned
the thousand and one temptations which beset
the path of youth  his worship of her had deprived
them of all power of attraction. When
he was eighteen, an old family friend had left
him a few hundreds of pounds with which to
travel and improve himself, and he had gladly
seized on this opportunity of making himself
more worthy of her, and had lived and studied inmost

of the art-capitals of Europe. While abroad
however, he had seen much more of society
than he had ever had any chance of doing in
England. He had associated vvith young men
of the upper classes, had sat at the feet of
worldly dowagers, and had gradually learnt
that he was cherishing a dream, and that long
before he, a poor unknown art-student, had
lifted his head even high enough to win the
notice of his own equals, his old love, Olive
Brooke  rich, beautiful, and daughter of a
Governor of a Province  would be married
to some man so distinguished that he himself,
poor unknown artist that he was, would be
ashamed to think of his own presumption in
ever having raised his eyes or thoughts to her.
She herself had once told him that she would
wait quietly in her own home till he came to
claim her as his promised wife ; but, poor
little thing, she was only a child when she
talked in that way. She had, however, told
him another thing which was most certainly
true, that before he did claim her he must
have done something great  ' must have some
achievements.' Those were her words, and he

perfectly recognised their significance and
truth. It was indeed most certain that before
he presented himself to remind her of this
promise, he must have done something to prove
himself worthy of her ; and every year showed
him more and more clearly how hard it was
to do anything that was even good, much less
great ; and time was so short, and the great
picture  the picture which everyone would
bow down before, as really good and noble 
would not let itself get painted. He came back
to England richer in knowledge, but deprived
of the strong incentive to work which had
never before been absent from his mind. Not,
however, till some time afterwards, when he
heard of Olive as a Court beauty, wooed and
admired by men of rank, and living on the
very frothiest surface of London life, did he
finally renounce all thought of one day winning
her, and even this renunciation was not so
painful as the state into which he seemed at
last to be driven, of thinking less well of her.
Story after story was told to him which made
him feel that she was not the Olive for whom
he had toiled and thought so much and so long.

and the end was that he drove her from his
thoughts and tried to hive only for his work.

When Olive met him in Scotland, he had
for some time ceased to think of her, except as
playing a part in his early life, and it is doubtful
whether their chance meeting would have
materially altered this decision, if he had not
spoken to her so cruelly. As it was, his heart
was torn with sorrow and vexation whenever
he thought of what he had done, and he felt
that he could not be happy until he had made
some atonement. What was he to do ? He
had gone to Ambergreen, not quite hoping to
hear anything which would lessen his self-reproach,
but desirous at all cost to hear the
worst ; but the worst had far exceeded his
worst imao'inino-s. Her mother had been
divorced ; her father had not come creditably
out of the trial ; her uncle had committed
suicide ; and her mother had gone mad ; and
to a poor girl, painfully conscious that in the
background of her life lurked these ghastly
circumstances, he had said, ' I once used to
think that she would never overlook the fact
that my relations were of humble birth, but

now I am not sure that I could consent to
know lies  they are all discreditable ! ' Such, to
the best of his recollection, had been his words ;
they could never be explained away or apologised
for, and they had been used to the woman
who of all others in the world was the one
whom he must ever regard with the most
tenderness. He could not forget her pale, suffering
face, her timid pleading for this good
opinion, and her patient endurance of his scorn.
All his old love for her returned, and he felt
that he had never really succeeded in banishing
it. He did not care to go home  slime was
only a working place, and he knew that all
painting was out of the question for that day,
and perhaps for many more. He was attracted
to the quarter Adhere she dwelt. He might see
lier. It was not very likely, but there was
always the chance. He walked once round the
square and up and down some of the smaller
streets. No one was there whom he cared to see,
and the house where she lived looked coldly
irresponsive to his eager glance of inquiry. After
a little more of this profitless wandering, he
went into Young Street, and while he was near

the General Post Office, a carriage stopped
there. Lady Brooke, pretty, young-looking,
and warmly dressed in furs, got out ; Olive  she
saw that she was there  sat still. Once he
thought he would go and speak to her ; but
she looked so pale and ill, and languid and
listless, that he had not the courage to intrude
on her. He looked at her for a minute or two,
while pretending to be occupied with a new
kind of boot-lace, then Lady Brooke came back,
and the carriage drove away with her into the
square. Even after completing the little purchase
which had furnished him with an excuse
for going into the shop, Morrison had time to
follow quickly enough to see Olive being helped
into the house by a maid. So she was ill, and
he had a large share in making her so.

He walked back to Chaucer Street. When
he got there he found that Mr. Ardrossan had
been to see him, and had written and left the
following note : 

Go out by daylight ! I never knew yon do such a thing
before 1 I came, my dear Morrison, to ask you to go with me to
call on Miss Brooke. I told Lady Brooke yesterday that we
should do so, for I made sure of finding you in, and willing to
pay this visit with me. Unfortunately, it will now have to be
postponed, as I am going into the country until after Christmas.
We will make our call as soon as I return.  Yours disappointed,

John Abdrossan.

Morrison read this with the greatest vexation.
' Such is life ! ' cried he. ' I have been
running half over London, seeking in vain for
what I should have had without an effort if I
had but stayed at home ! But I'll have it
still ! ' He rang the bell with such vehemence
that his servant was terrified, and ran to see
what could have happened.

Did you hear where Mr. Ardrossan ordered
his coachman to go when he left ? '
To Mr. Ambergreen's, sir.'
How long is it since he was here ? '
About half an hour.'

Morrison went upstairs, hastily revised his
costume, which was of the painter, paint, and
then ran to the nearest cab-stand, jumped into
a hansom, and promised the man double fare to
drive quickly to Ambergreen's. How could he
wait until after Christmas to see Olive . He
wanted to see her now ! By great good fortune,
Mr. Ardrossan's carriage was still at
Ambergreen's door. Morrison scribbled a few
words on a card and sent it in to Mr. Ardrossan,
who soon came ; and then Morrison, who had
such a short while before despaired of ever

VOL. II.

seeing Olive again, found himself on his way to
call on her. Not till he was all but there did
he remember his unhappy speech.

Forget it,' said Mr. Ardrossan ; ' you have
apologised generally ; behave as if you had
never made it. She must be perfectly aware
that you would have bitten your tongue off
rather than say such a thing if you had known
who she was. Here we are ! '

How Morrison's heart beat when the door
opened which was to reveal her to his sight !
She was sitting in a low chair near the fire, and
wore a dark crimson dress. The soft lamplight
made its rich hues glow, and darkened
the shadows of its folds. She was pale, and
her eyes looked large and sad. Morrison's
quick eye took in all these details at a glance
while walking across the room behind Mr.
Ardrossan. Lady Brooke had other visitors,
who were sipping Mrs. UUathorne's best tea
out of china cups which were so old and
valuable that she always kept them in a cabinet.
Lady Brooke was delighted to see Mr.
Ardrossan, and was profusely civil to Morrison,
but that was because he came in such good

company. Then it was his turn to speak to
Ohve. Did she blush a little when she shook
hands with him ? He did not know ; he himself
was nervous. She greeted him very quietly,
but kindly ; still, the few words she said seemed
to cost her an effort. Was she too ill to say
much, or did she not care to speak to him, or
had she not spoken the truth when she said that
she had forgiven him ? Morrison did not know,
and for the moment he was quite confused, for
before this visit he had no idea how exquisitely
beautiful she was.

I am afraid you are still feeling the effects
of that terrible night in the train,' said he.

She passed her hand slowly across her eyes,
as if to hide her face from him when reminded
of anything so painful, and replied, ' Oh, no ; I
soon recovered that. Thank you for all you
did for me then.'

He wished he had held his tongue; he
wanted to say something else, but whatsoever
subject he started, languished, after she had
replied by a few words. Her hands were
lying in her lap ; he could not take his eyes off
them, for he well remembered that of old he


and she had always sat hand in hand. Then
they had always found plenty to say to each
other ; now, she would not speak and he could
not. She felt the conversation was flagging,
but what was she to say ? She did not like to
ask him about his work, lest anything should
be said about the lime-tree picture ; she could
not mention Austerfield, lest she should seem
to be reminding him of old times. At last she
inquired if he did not know her aunt, Mrs.
Brooke, of Harley Street ? and he, remembering
what he had said about her relations, lost no
time in expressing a strong regard for that
lady ; but that subject would not last for ever,
and just as he was going to take refuge in the
weather, Mr. Ardrossan came to them, and
Morrison thought he could not do better than
watch how she treated him. She did talk a
little more freely to him ; but, then, she knew
him better. Two men with titles were in the
room; up to the present time Lady Brooke
had monopolised them ; but they preferred the
younger lady, and gradually approached her
chair. Again Morrison listened and watched.
They both paid her a great deal of attention,

and the names of great folks and great houses
were tossed about with all the lightness and
ease of familiarity ; but still Olive, though apparently
intimate with these two handsome young
lordlings, did not seem to treat them with
more distinction than she had shown to his
humble self. This was, however, small comfort
to Morrison, for he felt himself divided from
her by walls of brass. His heart began to feel
as heavy as lead. He sighed when he thought
what a fool he had been, and of the best that
it would ever be in his power to give her  to
her it would appear the merest discomfort and
beggary.

I think we shall have to run away,' said
Mr. Ardrossan presently. Morrison rose heavily.
He gave Ohve one last look, and then they left.

My dear Morrison,' said Mr. Ardrossan,
I am not quite sure that you are the happier
for this visit. Are you ? '

At any rate I am the better for it,' was
Morrison's answer. ' I am glad I came, but I
must never see her again. I can't stand it.'

CHAPTER XXV.

I do see
Danger and disobedience in thine eye.  King Henry VI.

A. heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue. Love's Zaboii/r's Lost.

It was many weeks after Olive's return to
London before she was well ; and even when
her health was restored, she no longer seemed
able to take pleasure m the amusements which
she had enjoyed before. Lady Brooke had
made a desperate effort to regain her confidence.
She had apologised for having so abruptly
disclosed the unhappy fact about her
mother, and had entreated Olive not to let her
uncle and aunt in Harley Street know that she
had done so. She had promised them to keep
it a secret, she said, and they would never forgive
her for having broken her word. She had
only done so for Olive's good, and they must
not knows it. Olive would give no promise;

she said she required their advice, and must
consult them ; but Lady Brooke was tolerably
easy about the matter, for they were from
home, and she felt that Olive was very unlikely
to write letters that would distress her uncle,
and before they returned she hoped to have
brought the girl to her own way of thinking.
Dr. and Mrs. Brooke had been in town while she
and Ohve were in Scotland ; but Dr. Brooke's
health had again given way, and they had gone
to Cannes for a couple of months' change. Lady
Brooke was still in Kensington Square ; Mrs.
Ullathorne had written to announce her desire
to return to her own house, and Lady Brooke
had not failed to say how delighted she was to
hear of this, and that all should be ready for
her ; but in her letter she had used these words :
Ohve is better, but I am still very anxious
about her; no one seems able to say what
her illness has been, and is ; do not, when you
come home, and hear about it, think that she
has had a fever, for none of her doctors will
admit that this is the case.'

As Lady Brooke expected when she penned
this absolutely truthful statement  for of course

no doctor could admit such a thing for a
moment  Mrs. Ullatliorne decided on remaining
where she was a little longer, and thus
Lady Brooke gained more time to dispose of
Olive's future. She was beginning to despair of
her. She was weary of the girl's companionship,
and sick of the sight of her sad face.
Olive never spoke except to answer a question 
took a book to escape notice, but never turned
a page  so far as was possible, avoided all
society, and was evidently giving her whole
mind to something which she did not wish to
confide to her lawful guardian. Lady Brooke.
Once or twice that lady said 

Olive, what is the matter with you ? why do
you sit and never speak ? You never even lookup
; it is miserable to see you. What can you
be thinking of . Tell me ; I wish to know.'

I cannot tell you,' was Olive's reply. How
she wished her dear Uncle Eichard was back
again, and well enough to talk to her !

Waiting for an answer, you say ? ' inquired
Olive one day, when a note was brought to her.
Oh, it is from Aunt Sehna ! ' she exclaimed,
when she saw it. Lady Brooke did not hear

her words ; she herself had just received some
letters which she appeared to consider important.
' Aunt Selina is here ! ' cried Olive ; ' she
has come back ten days before uncle, to get the
house ready for him Lady Brooke's letters
were difficult to deal with, and had made her
cross, so she said, ' Won't she make it comfortable
for him, poor man ! Picture the wretchedness
of any invalid who is given over to her
hideous housekeeping ! '

She wants me to go and spend the rest of
the day with her. I am so glad : I want to see
her so much.'

You can't go to-day, Olive ! You must beat
home. Write and say that you will go tomorrow.
I have a particular reason for wanting
you at home.'

I should so like to go at once.'

]o ; say you will go tomorrow. I will
take you there myself and leave you.'

Please let me go to-day.'

I tell you no, Olive. I have a note which
I must answer, and then I will give my reason.'

Olive wrote her note of refusal to her aunt,
and Lady Brooke wrote a note to some one

else, and both were given to the messengers
waiting for them, but still Lady Brooke did not
fulfil her promise. Then visitors came, and it
was not until after six o'clock that they were
alone, and she said to Olive, ' That note was
from Sir John Ellerton. He is in town now.
He wrote to ask me if I thought it would be
disagreeable to you if he came to pay us a visit,
so I have invited him to dine with us to-night.
That is why I wished you not to go to Harley
Street to-day, for this is the only evening this
week I have free.'

Olive was mutely indignant. Lady Brooke
stood watching the changes in her face. She
felt very uneasy at what she read there. ' I
cannot meet Sir John Ellerton ! ' cried Olive, at
length.

You shall meet him !  I beg your pardon,
Olive, but do please remember that I am much
older than you, and know much better what is
right in such cases than you can possibly do.
Let him come here as usual. He won't say
anything which you will object to hear. He
has promised me that he will not  he will come
just as any other friend might do.'

I will not see him,' said Olive. ' If I do,
everything will happen exactly as it happened
before! He will assume that, as I make no
objection to his coming here, I mean to accept
him in the end, and you Avill, of course, say
that my conduct implied it.'

Ohve, no ; you do not listen to what I say.
I tell you he comes as a friend, and only as a
friend ; after his hospitality to us, I do not see
how we could refuse to let him' do that. No ;
he must come, and you must see him. He will
be here in three-quarters of an hour. Go and
dress. Don't say anything more. While you
are with me, I expect to be obeyed.'

Olive walked across the room with a half-formed
project of rebellion in her head. She
went to her own room and began to dress as
rapidly as she could. She chose the plainest
and darkest dress she had. Hardly had she
fastened the last button of this, than, clad in a
warm dressing-gown. Lady Brooke opened the
door. She had misgivings about Olive's obedience,
and peeped in to see whether she had to
deal with a steadfastly obstinate stepdaughter,
sitting Cinderella-like in work-a-day garments,

or a brightly apparelled damsel willing to be
reasonable. ' That dress ! ' cried she, though
an evening dress of any kind was a hopeful
sign ; ' you might have treated us to something
less dingy ! What time is it by your watch ? '

Seven minutes to seven.'

Then you have seven minutes to spare.
Change that dress, Olive ; I like to see you look
nice.'

It will do very well,' said Olive.

Oh, no. He won't be here for seven
minutes  you had better change it. Put on a
white one  come, you have as much time as I
have  mine is still to put on ; ' and so saying,
Lady Brooke went away.

Olive had expected this visit, and, when
once it was over, she did not lose a moment.
She was afraid of Lady Brooke  of the maid,
of everyone, and had no time to lose. She
snatched up her hat and a loose fur-cloak, ran
downstairs, put on her hat and cloak just as she
got to the house door, opened it cautiously,
for she heard the servants talking in the diningroom,
and then hastened to the gate. She
arrived there just a moment before Sir John

Eller ton's carriage drove up. She saw him
spring out as she was hurrying across the
square ; she ran up Young Street, and did not
breathe freely until she found herself in the
midst of the crowd of people who were making
their way up and down the High Street. She
got into a hansom almost immediately, and withall
speed drove off to Harley Street, and not
till she was well on her way did she remember
what an omission she had made in not leaving
the traditional note of farewell pinned to her
pincushion. She resolved to send one of the
Harley Street servants back in the cab to set
Lady Brooke's mind at rest. The freshness of
the air revived her, the boldness of her own
course acted as a stimulant, and she felt happier
than she had done for months. ' I am quite
certain I have done right,' thought she. ' If I
had allowed him to come as usual, what could
he have thought but that I meant to change
my mind, and, poor fellow, he is far too good
for such ill-treatment ? '

Mrs. Brooke was in her study with ' eyes
commercing with the skies,' and a great heap of
manuscript before her. ' My darling Ove I '

said she. ' What a pleasant surprise ! How
are you ? But I need not ask  I never saw
your dear face look so rosy and pretty : and
how I have been worrying myself about you !
Thank God, without need, I see ! '

Olive's face was flushed with the excitement
of her flight from Kensington Square.
She looked unusually well and beautiful : no
wonder that Mrs. Brooke was reassured. ' I
am so glad uncle is better,' said Olive, forgetting
her own troubles.

He is much better, but the great thing is
to him keep so. I am reversing the usual order
of things  the nightingale female always comes
ten days after the male ; but I have come ten
days before your uncle, to see that all is comfortable
for him, only I have spent four of
them on the way.'

But you have been writing all day, aunt ! '
said Ohve in a tone of gentle reproach.

So I have, but I don't write every day.
I was tempted this morning, and yielded  you
see, I have some very important work in hand ;
and the house is so deliciously quiet, now that
there is hardly even a servant in it, that I

shall never have such a good opportunity of
getting on again. I will see about the house
tomorrow  I have yq days left.'

'Let me see that all is got ready,' said
Olive, who knew that temptation might more
than once again prove too strong for her
poor aunt.

Yes, I shall be much obliged if you will ;
but I want you to help me in another way. Sit
down, Olive dear, close by me  you have
come at the very moment I most wanted you.'

And I wanted you ! ' cried poor distressed
Olive. 'You must advise and help me, for
indeed I need it.'

Indeed I will ! ' cried Mrs. Brooke ; ' but,
before we say another word, just read about
half-a-dozen pages of this manuscript for me.
I have a most particular reason for wishing you
to do so now.'

I came because I wanted to talk to you
about something very important. Can you
spare a few minutes ? I am very unhappy.'

My darling, yes ; but I thought we might

get done with the manuscript before dinner

I am dining late on purpose  pack it up tonight,

and look at it no more !  I know if it
is not packed up, and sent out of the house,
I shall find a hundred things to do to it. It
ought to go to Messrs. Chatterley to-night to
get it out of my way.'

What is it that you wish me to do ? ' asked
Olive.

It is a novel for the " Quixotic Magazine,"
and I believe they will take it. It is of great
consequence to me that they should ; but the
worst is that, in order to paint a character
really well, I am afraid I have made it rather
too like your Aunt UUathorne. I did not
intend it to be like her, but somehow it has
slipped into being an exact portrait  at least
I am afraid so ; but I have a guilty conscience
about it. You must please tell me what you
think, Olive, for your uncle would be very
angry if anyone said it was drawn from her.
Begin here.'

Ohve took the manuscript, but soon exclaimed,
' Aunt, you can't possibly let this go :
She was the widow of a wealthy merchant,
and the ponderous character of her furniture,
and the depth of the pile of her carpets, bore

witness to his wealth and her own strong feeling
for heaviness." '

Well, take a pen and correct as you go
along ; make him a stockbroker  that's disguise
enough.'

'Oh, no, I'm afraid it is not.'

'But I can't have any very great alterations
! Eead on.'

Olive read on, but soon cried, ' I am sure
it won't do to leave this ; everyone will know
that you are thinking of poor Aunt Mary :
She contradicted her fellow-creatures as the
only means at her disposal of keeping up a
conversation. Perhaps, in her heart, she would
have preferred to bring a sledge-hammer stroke
to bear on each subject which was started ;
but as, from experience, she had found that
her opponents seldom rose again after this
blow had been dealt to them, she had adopted
the method of contradicting at large, thus
goading friends and enemies alike to renewed
speech, which she met by renewed contradiction."
'

Oh, I really can't take that out ! ' cried
Mrs. Brooke. ' It is such a good bit, and so
exactly like Aunt Ullathorne ! '

VOL. II. p

But that is why you really ought to take
it out.'

Oh, but it is sure to be just as like a great
many other cross old women, and I don't suppose
she considers herself contradictious. No ;
don't let us be so very particular ! Eead on.'

Then, I am quite certain she will recognise
this,' said Olive, after reading a page or
two more : ' " She had only two pleasures in
life : one was this delight in contradiction, the
other was a strangely grim joy she experienced
in buying for herself places of burial. Whenever
she saw a pretty cemetery, she always
bought herself a fragment of it, went to see it
two or three times as her last long resting-place,
and then chose another. And yet no
one was ever so anxious to live to an extreme
old age as she ! If you had told this woman,
whose life seemed so miserable, that she could
prolong it by going once a year barefooted to
John o'Groat's house, she would ungrudgingly
have performed the required task. And this
desire to live long was not the result of any
uncertainty as to where or how life beyond the
grave might be spent ; for she was possessed of
a certain knowledge that she was among the

chosen few who at the last would stand by and
see most of those whom she had known on
earth sent away as unworthy to share in the
happiness which would be hers." '

Aunt Selina ! It is impossible to let this
go. It is not right to speak of one of uncle's
sisters, or of anybody, in this way ! I don't
like it at all ! '

'But it is so like her!' said Mrs. Brooke.
She really would enjoy seeing her friends and
relations consigned '

It does not seem right to put such things
in a book ! ' said Olive. ' Don't be vexed with
me for saying so.'

It mayn't be quite right,' said Mrs. Brooke,
but you must admit that it is very good.
That one character quite makes the book ; it is
splendid. Don't say I must take it out, or you
will make me ruin the novel.'

Ohve was firm.

It is just the kind of character Mr. Chatterley's
reader likes,' pleaded Mrs. Brooke. ' I
must leave it in till he has seen it. Suppose I
leave it in for the reader, and modify it as it
goes through the press ? '
p 2

But things that are left in for a while are
apt to be left in altogether ; besides, I am very
much afraid that softening that character won't
do  it ought to be taken out entirely.'

That's quite impossible ! That character
is the most important one in the book ; she
does all the mischief in it and brings about all
the trouble. I'll do something to make it
unHke your Aunt UUathorne  I promise you.'

Dinner was ready, and they rose to go.
The talented lady folded up her manuscript and
said, ' Olive, I know this book is good, and I
am unusually hopeful. I am afraid I shall
never be a Classic, but I do not see why I may
not rise to be a Standard Author.'

At all events, your books are widely read,*
said her niece kindly.

Ah, my dear, that signifies very little, I
fear ; for, as that naughty uncle of yours says,
An author must indeed be a great fool who
can't find an equal one for a reader ! ' ' What
is that ? ' she asked, as a servant gave her some
money.

Change from Martin's bill, ma'am,' said the
maid, and went.

Don't you count it ? ' asked Olive, seeing
her aunt tumble the loose silver into her purse.

Oh, no ; I never count the money they
bring me ; it makes so much unpleasantness if
it happens to be wrong.' Involuntarily another
saying of her Uncle Eichard's rushed into Olive's
mind : ' When the devil wishes to ruin a woman,
he puts a pen in her hand.' Much suffering had
wrung from him this change in the old formula,
and she began not to wonder.

When dinner is over, aunt,' she said imploringly,
' you will spare me a little time,
won't you ? I am so miserable ! '

This time Mrs. Brooke seemed to understand
her appeal, and said, ' And have I been making
you think of other things when there was something
you wished to say ? Olive, I am so sorry.'

After dinner will do,' replied Olive ; but
all through dinner she saw her aunt looking
penitent and anxious, and when at last they
were alone, Mrs. Brooke said, ' Olive, you are
ill ; I see you are, now that you are not flushed.
Do tell me what is the matter.'

I want to come back to you ! I love you
and uncle, and I can't stay with Lady Brooke.'

'Dear child, lie is your mother.' Mrs.
Brooke said this so simply and naturally that
Ohve almost believed that she did not know
otherwise.

She has told me that she is not ! She has
told me most dreadful things about my own
mother. She says I am disgraced by belonging
to her, and must marry some one to hide my
real name ; so she is trying to make me marry
Sir John Egerton, whether I wish it or not. I
am here now against her will ; she said I was
not to come ; that was why I wrote that excuse
you got. I came away in spite of her, because
I found that she had invited Sir John to dinner.'

I am very glad you did, darling,' said
Mrs. Brooke, without the slightest hesitation.
You did quite right, and, what is more, you
shall stay here altogether, now that you have
come! You shall not go back to her to be
ill-treated 1 '

You are sure I may come ? ' said Ove
faintly.

How can you ask such a question ? Your
uncle and I both look on you as our own dear
child.'

Olive burst into tears. She was so unused
to kindness and affection, and had for so long
looked on herself as an outcast and a disgrace
to all connected with her, that a few loving
words quite overcame her. ' Oh, but I must not
come here,' she sobbed. ' She told me that my
being with you dragged you down, that you
kept your own children away from home lest
they should be partakers in my disgrace, that I
had no real home anywhere, and that no one
looked on me as anything but a burden.'

God forgive her ! ' ejaculated Mrs. Brooke.
She is a very wicked woman ! You shall never
be with her again.'

But am I not a disgrace and injury to you ?
Might I really come to you ? '

My darling, yes ; you are our own.'

These fewwords soothed Ohve inexpressibly.
I can bear anything now,' said she. ' It was
the feeling that there was not a house in all the
world where I was not unwelcome that made
me so wretched.'

My poor child ! ' cried Mrs. Brooke ; ' and
you came here with your heart full of this, and
you let me set you down to read my manuscript

! What a selfish wretch you must have
thought me I  but indeed I did not dream that
there was anything serious. Is this what has
made you so ill ? '

I think so. I have thought about nothing
else since she told me. I feel so wretched about
my own mother. Aunt Selina, I have seen her,
and I feel certain she was innocent.'

V You have seen her? But I am not sure
she is alive.'

Yes ; she is alive, and I have seen her.
She came one day to the window of our house,
and looked in at me  I did not know who she
was at the time, but I have been thinking of all
these things, and now I know and long to see
her again.'

Mrs. Brooke took Ove's hand in hers and
said, ' Dear child, I am so sorry for you ; but
please do not let your mind dwell on this.'

But I can't help doing so. The thought
is never absent from my mind, and I must think
of it even more than I do,' continued Olive in
great excitement, 'for I want to prove her
innocence.'

Ah, my darling, this is no subject for you

to meddle with ! Your stepmother was a very-cruel
woman to let you know about it. Turn
your thoughts in another direction  a child
ought not to have anything to do with pain of
this kind.'

Am I to desert my own mother's cause
because it will be painful to me to know about
it ? I should not wish to know about it if I
believed her guilty.'

Why do you think her otherwise ?'

I don't think  I know ! Her face was
enough for me. No one with the noble face she
has, could act untruly in any way.'

Mrs. Brooke shook her head.

Will you tell me the story, then ? I am
not a child, and may hear it, and whatever you
tell me I shall believe  I should not believe
what Lady Brooke said.'

Dear Olive, I do not know the story. It
happened before I married your uncle, and he
can't bear to talk about it ! Once or twice I
have asked a question, but he always begs me
not to mention it. It must have affected him
terribly.'

But if you do not know the story, aunt,

why do you shake your head when I say my
mother may be innocent ? '

Because I have heard enough to prove
that she was not  and she was tried, so it was
proved in a Court of Justice that she was not.
Olive, dear, it is terrible for you, I know, but
you must leave this as it is.'

Leave it as it is ! ' cried Olive wildly. ' I
should go mad if I believed as you do !  The
only thing which stops my going mad is the
hope I have of putting her right again with the
world.'

But if you did put her right with the world,
dear, I am afraid that you would put a great
many other people wrong ! '

Olive's eyes filled with tears. She had not
thought of that. ' May I talk to uncle ? '

Yes, dear, no doubt you may  if it would
be any comfort to you to do so, I am sure you
may ; but please do not say anything to him
until he is better.'

And I may stay here ? '

You shall never leave us again.'

Thank God ! ' exclaimed Olive. ' I don't
know the story, but whenever I look at Lady

Brooke I feel that she betrayed my poor
mother ; I could read that in both their faces,
when I saw them together.'

Olive, you are wrong,' said Mrs. Brooke,
who, though ignorant of the whole story, knew
a little more of it than she would admit to
Olive, ' Eemember, you have nothing whatever
to go on but fancies ! '

CHAPTEE XXVI.

The shame fell long ago,
The sorrow keeps increasing.  Egbert Browning.

Olive was up betimes next day. She awoke
with a sense of light-hear redness that she had
not felt for months. She was once more with
her own people  she had slept in her own bed,
could see her own little pictures and bits of
decorations on the walls as soon as the shutters
were opened, and could go to her own drawers
and take out familiar old garments left behind
her as unsuited for the inspection of the great
lady who had so suddenly appeared and claimed
her as a daughter. She dressed quickly, and
ran down to her uncle's study ; the maid was
dusting it when she entered. ' This room is
ready for the master, Miss Olive, let him come
when he will,' said the girl ; but Olive knew
better. No one was so particular as Dr. Brooke

about the trifles which made up the sum of all
the comfort that he could call his own. She
rapidly began to arrange his tables as she knew
he liked to have them  books in one place,
scissors, penknives, and string in another ; and
then she made a Hst of things which were
wanting. After which she went through the
other rooms, and had set all the work which
was really wanted a-going before her aunt came
down. A letter from Dr. Brooke was lying on
the breakfast-table, and much Olive longed to
hear its contents. She ran to meet Mrs. Brooke
with it in her hand. ' Eead it,' said she ;
never mind me, tell me how uncle is. Aunt,
since you said I might come back, I have felt
quite a new creature.'

But as Mrs. Brooke read the letter, her
face fell. She read and re-read, and finally
muttered, ' It is very strange ! This is the most
disagreeable coincidence '

What is a coincidence ? ' inquired Olive.
Let us be above coincidences ; I hate them ! '

'My dear child, how I wish your uncle
had not written this letter ! It upsets all our
nice plans. Listen to what he says. " I am

afraid from dear Olive's letter to you, which
came after you left, and which I opened, that
she is not happy and wishes to return to us.
I long to have her back quite as much as she
can long to come ; but, Selina, be wise, and do
not encourage such a thing if she speaks of it
to you. I will tell you why. If I were rich,
I would take her back in a moment. If I
were even in good health, so as to be sure of
being able to work for her, she should come ;
but as it is, with my health in such an uncertain
state that any day may find me unable
to maintain even my own wife and children,
I must not do Ohve such an injury as to take
her away from those who are bound to provide
for her. If she leaves them to come to us,
they will desert her ; I shall be expected to
provide for her, and, dear Selina, I dare not
undertake this charge. Tell Olive what I say,
with my love. Ask her to be patient, and to
make the best of things for a while. Assure
her that Lady Brooke will neither take her to
India when she goes, nor will she stay very long
here ; so that if Ohve can but bear to remain
where she is a very little longer, things will
soon return to their old state, without the pain

and annoyance of any quarrel between her and
her present guardians, who will then hand her
over to us as before, but will still feel that she
has a claim on them if my health should breakdown,
and she should need their help. Tell
her that this is my only reason for wishing her
to stay with Lady Brooke now  that I look on
her as my own child, and so long as I hive
she shall always have a home with me. I
wish. I were rich enough, or well enough, to
be able to write differently. God knows the
comfort the child has always been to me, and
how I long to have her back again." '

Olive's eyes were full of tears ; but she was
not weeping because of her own disappointment,
but because he wrote so kindly about
her, and so gloomily about his own health.
Mrs. Brooke soon made her see that he wrote
thus from an excess of conscientiousness, and
then she said, 'Aunt, how different you and
uncle are from my stepmother, and how delightful
it is to be with people whom one can
trust ! Now, if she had received that letter,
she would not have read it aloud to me, but
by a hundred artful devices she would have
got out of having me with her.'

'Always be straightforward, Olive; half
the misery of this world would be spared if
people would but behave honestly.'

'Yes said Olive; 'I believe myself I
should get on far better with my stepmother
if I acted more for myself and did not let her
meddle so much ; I think I will take a stronger
line.'

Dr. Brooke's kind letter made Olive feel
that she could bear anything. She would go
back to Kensington Square and stay with Lady
Brooke until she went back to India. She
could do that cheerfully, and more too, if her
uncle wished it. So, to Mrs. Brooke's surprise,
her tears ceased to fall. She was helpful and
even gay, and after a final survey of the rooms,
to see if anything was wanted which her aunt
was likely to forget, she made ready to go.
Good-bye, aunt,' said she. ' Tell uncle how
thankful I am to him, and promise me not to
forget to take out all the Aunt Ullathorne bits.'

I promise,' replied Mrs. Brooke sadly ;
but what a pity it does seem ! You might
just as well make me promise to have half a
dozen good double-teeth pulled out ! Good-bye.'

As Olive opened the door, Mrs. Brooke cried,

Oh, wait a moment  you can do one thing
for me before you go  I did not like to mention
it last night when we had so many other
things to think of, but it is something I do
so want a good opinion about.' As Mrs.
Brooke spoke, she produced from a drawer in
her writing-table a rather well-worn copy of
her last novel. ' Tell me, dear, what you think
of the appearance of this book ! I brought it
away from the library on purpose to ask someone.
You see how loose the back is, and how
bent and worn the corners are ; has the novel
been a great deal read, or does it look like
that because people have got out of patience
with it, and have thrown it across the room
in disgust ? Don't laugh at me, I do so wish
I knew.'

Olive examined the injuries of the back
and corners with a critical eye, and taking
these in conjunction with the aspect of the
margin of the pages, which she declared
showed that they had been held in a steady
continuous grasp, she gave her verdict in favour
of ' much hard reading,' and departed, leaving
her aunt in high spirits.

VOL. II. Q

The pleasure of being in Harley Street
again, and of working for her uncle, had so
filled Olive's mind that not until she was
nearly in Kensington Square did she remember
that she had left it the night before without
much ceremony of leave-taking, and that, in
all probability, her reception would not bea
very pleasant one. The maid who opened
the door pursed up her lips to hide a smile,
but could not hide her twinkling eyes

Is Lady Brooke in ? ' asked Olive.

Yes, Miss Olive ; she's in the drawing-room.'


Slowly Olive went upstairs, and slowly
she opened the drawing-room door. Lady
Brooke was, as usual, sitting very near the
fire. Her back was turned to the door. Olive
stood in some hesitation, wondering what she
had better say first. She felt that Lady
Brooke must know that some one was there, but
she did not look round. She was wrapped ina
shawl of Lady Ellerton's knitting  Lady
Brooke had no fine feelings which would make
it unpleasant to wear garments which coidd
not fail to remind her of painful occurrences 

her fine feelings all went to securing her own
comfort.

Good morning said Olive ; ' I am here.'

Lady Brooke turned and looked at her from
head to foot with an air of cold but searching
interest, and said, ' Be so kind, then, as to explain
your conduct.'

I went because you invited Sir John
Ellerton here to dine. I did not wish to meet
him.'

If you are to leave the house in this way
whenever my visitors do not happen to please
you, I think it is a pity that you did not stay
in Harley Street when you were there. You
may be able to lord it over your aunt, but I do
not intend to be dictated to by you. I have
already posted a letter informing your father of
your secret and sudden departure from the house
last night without so much as leaving a message
for me.'

'You have! You will distress him very
much ! ' cried Olive regretfully. ' You need not
have been quite so quick about it.'

Oh, he expects to be distressed by you.'

Olive felt this taunt bitterly. She knew

q2

what Lady Brooke meant. Suddenly lie remembered
her lately-formed resolution of taking
a bolder and stronger line, and cried, ' I will
write to my father myself. I will explain everything
to him.'

I forbid you to do anything of the kind,*
cried Lady Brooke. 'I will write to him
he is my husband.'

He is my father,' said Ove.

He wishes to be kind to you and make no
difference between you and his other children,'
replied Lady Brooke, who strongly desired to
remind Olive that there was a difference.

Olive winced, and said very humbly, 'And I
wish to obey him in everything I can.'

Are you going to hive here or in Harley
Street?'

'Here, unless you prefer to send me to
Harley Street.'

But are you to live with me and set me at
defiance? What about Sir John Ellerton?
Will you see him if I wish it ? '

Yes, if you really wish it.'

Lady Brooke looked so surprised that Olive
made haste to add, ' I must tell you that I shall

take the very first opportunity which offers
itself to make him thoroughly understand the
nature of my feelings towards him.'

'I wonder,' replied Lady Brooke angrily,
whether the nature of your feelings will change
when I tell you of something which has up to
the present time been kept from you. You
shall hear it ; but before I say more you must
promise me solemnly not to repeat what I am
going to tell you to anyone whomsoever.'

I do not wish to hear it,' said Olive firmly ;
'I do not want to be told anything, unless I maybe
allowed to consult Uncle Eichard about it.'
She was still adhering to her resolution to be
straightforward ; this course was entirely in
harmony with her own character, and it had
the effect of thoroughly disconcerting her stepmother,
who tried, however, to put a good
face on the matter, and said, 'Don't be so
idiotic, Olive ! You get hold of a few fine
phrases, and think you settle everything if you
only repeat them in an impressive manner !
You can't consult your Uncle Eichard about
what I am going to tell you  not unless you
want to kill him, I mean ; you know what a

precarious state of health he is in. Wait till
you hear what it is, and then you won't be so
anxious to tell it.'

I don't want to hear it. You have already
told me quite enough to make me miserable for
the rest of my life ! I will hear no more.'

But you can hardly steer your course properly
without knowing this ! You ought to
know it.'

Tell it to me, then.'
'Yes ; but promise to keep it secret.'
I will not know it on that condition.'
Please yourself! ' exclaimed Lady Brooke
angrily ; ' but I am afraid that a time will come
when you will have to know it, whether you
like or not.'

'I will wait until that time comes,' said
Ohve. She was certain that, if Lady Brooke
desired to extract a promise from her, it must be
one which it would be to her disadvantage to
make ; so she showed no sign of yielding.
But have you no curiosity ? '
Some ; but I won't give that promise.'
Then we will speak of something else.
You wish to remain here ? '

'I wish to do exactly as you and my
father like best about that.'

Good girl ! Well, we wish you to stay
here ; but then we wish many other things
which you do not seem so ready to perform ;
however, I mil say no more on this subject.
Oh, stay ! One thing I must say, and that is,
that so long as we remain together, we ought
to hive on terms of friendliness. Olive, it is not
my fault that we seem to live so uncomfortably.
I have a great wish to see you happy, though
you don't believe it. Indeed it is true. Think,
yourself, how many things there are which I
might do which would be pleasant to me than
living here with you. You know I have invitations
which I decline. I might go abroad,
but I stay here entirely for your sake, because
your father wishes you to be taken into society
and acknowledged by us.'

Olive looked uncomfortable. Lady Brooke
continued : ' I am sure I do not wish to complain
of having to do it ; but, Ohve, it is nota
very agreeable life for me, now that you are
so determined to regard me as your enemy.'

I beg your pardon, I am sure,' said Olive,

who felt rather guilty ; ' I am sorry if I treat
you unkindly.'

Then, be a little different. Believe what
I say when I tell you how anxious I am for
your happiness. I may not always take the
way to secure it that you prefer, but you must
own that since I have been with you I have had
no other object in view.'

Olive began to think that there was a great
deal of truth in this, and sat down near Lady
Brooke and tried to talk to her as she used to do.

While she was still sitting dressed in her
out door garments just as she had returned
from Harley Street, a letter was brought to her.
The address was ill-written and blotted, the
envelope was sealed with coarse wax. She did
not know the handwriting, and uttered some
exclamation to that effect as she turned the
letter round, and for a minute or two she was
so occupied in puzzling herself as to who could
be the writer that she never noticed how
interested her stepmother was also, or how
eagerly Lady Brooke's eyes were fixed on the
sheet of paper when once it was drawn from
the cover. ' What can this be ? ' cried Olive,

reading the first four or five words. Lady
Brooke was reading them too. Olive started
and looked up, and, though she did not think
that Lady Brooke was reading the letter, she
thought she was dangerously within reach of it
and moved her position a little, and then
read, ' 33 Mulberry Street, Bethnal Green,  If
Miss Olive Brooke would like to see some one
who can give evidence which will establish her
mother's innocence, she must, on the day she

receives this, go ' When Olive had read as

far as this she rose to go and finish her letter
upstairs.

'Stay where you are, Olive,' said Lady
Brooke ; ' I want you here, dear, as soon as
you have read that letter.'

I should like to take ofi*my bonnet '

No ; wait a minute.'

Ohve felt obliged to stay, but could not
resist reading more. ' She must, on the day she
receives this, go to the Thames Embankment,
and be at Cleopatra's Needle precisely as the
clock strikes four. There she will soon see a
person aged about fifty, dressed in brown
merino, with a red petticoat, brown jacket, and

a black bonnet trimmed with black and red
ribbon, and flowers. This person will have a
Bradshaw Guide in her hand, by which Miss
Brooke may know her. Miss Brooke must
come alone, also with a Bradshaw's Guide in
her hand to secure recognition ; but if she brings
a companion with her, her journey will be in
vain.' Then the writer lapsed into the second
person plural. 'As, however, you may be
afraid of coming so far, or have some difficulty
in getting out, I will give you one more chance
of meeting me. If you are not able to come to
the Embankment by four, come to the Carmelite
Church, in Church Street, at eight o'clock.
It will be open then, as to-day is Friday. A
woman will be kneeling at the right hand side
of the church, at the very end of the third bench
from the door. That she may know you, kneel
down by her, and put your handkerchief on the
desk before you, and lay your gloves cross wise
on it. She will whisper your name to you.
Have no fear of her. She will either take you
outside or stay in the porch as you wish,
and will tell you enough to prove her power of
helping you to the knowledge you want.

Absolute secrecy is required. Above everything,
Lady Brooke must know nothing of this.
Perhaps Miss Brooke is not aware what a
dangerous woman the so-called Lady Brooke
is  the present writer warns Miss Brooke to
beware of her. She also begs Miss Brooke not
to make any attempt to come to the address
given at the top of my letter. Miss Brooke may
write to me at Mulberry Street if she is unable
to come to either place, but you must not come
to my house. If Miss Brooke neither writes
nor comes to one of the places named, the
present writer will know that she does not care
about the good name or happiness of her ill-used
mother.  Hannah Deanham.' Olive read
this with great but suppressed emotion, and
much anxiety to escape observation. Lady
Brooke had, however, especially during the last
minute or so, seen more than one word which
excited her curiosity to its utmost stretch.
Fragments of several sentences had met her
eyes, and two or three of these had seemed to
refer to some appointment for that day, and,
besides this, other things had struck her. She
did not want to interrupt Ove so long as the

letter was in her hand, and there was the least
chance of seeing more, but when she began to
fold it up and put it back into its envelope.
Lady Brooke said, ' My dear ! I wish to see
that letter.'

Olive shook her head and answered, ' Oh,
no ; I could not show it to anyone ! I am
asked not to do so.'

But I demand to see it ! I have your
father's authority for treating you as I should
treat a child of my own, and I insist on your
giving it to me ! Olive, it is of no use to refuse,
for I tell you I will see it ! ' and so saying, she
rose suddenly in much agitation and excitement.
Ohve rose too. Was Lady Brooke going
to take it from her by force ? She feared so ;
and just as her stepmother was about to clutch
it from her grasp, Olive threw the letter into
the very centre of one of the red-hot fires which
Lady Brooke delighted in, and in a second it was
beyond the power of anyone to read its contents.
Lady Brooke turned as white as a sheet
with passion, and said, ' Olive, you will repent
this ! Now I know what to think of your professions
of obedience! This time you have

gone too far,' and so saying, she swept out of
the room. She did not appear at luncheon.
Olive ate her dismal little meal alone. She
did not trouble herself about that, or about
having offended Lady Brooke  she was in a
fever of excitement to know how to contrive
to keep this appointment. If she had not
run away to Harley Street only the day before,
she might have gone off without saying anything,
but she was afraid of behaving in the
same way two days in succession. Lady Brooke,
however, seemed determined to give her every
facility. A little after two she went out, and
Olive, who watched her from the window, saw
her walk rapidly out of the square. On this
she herself ran upstairs to dress ; for, though
Lady Brooke was going to dine out that evening
alone, it seemed wiser to keep the earlier
appointment ; besides, by so doing, she left herself
one chance more, in case of failure.

She had never been to the Embankment.
She fancied that Cleopatra's Needle was somewhere
near Westminster Abbey, and, if so, she
felt quite able to find her way to it. She would,
for the first time in her life, avail herself of the

Metropolitan Eailway. On her way to her own
room, she met Mrs. Ullathorne's rather antiquated
housemaid. All the servants liked
Olive, but they adored Lady Brooke, who was
wise in her generation, and secured her own
comfort by gaining their goodwill. ' Harriet,'
said Olive, delicately hovering about the subject
next her heart, ' have you ever been to the
British Museum ? '

Yes, miss. We went once, sister and I, and
we lost our way in ever so many great passages
what a keeping clean that place must take,
to be sure !  and we got to a great round room
where hundreds of cross-looking people were
sitting reading, which, when we saw it was a
studious place, we turned back and went
amongst some stuffed beasts  rhinocerhouses
and wild elephants.'

And have you been to Westminster
Abbey ? and Cleopatra's Needle ? '

Oh, yes. Miss Olive, I have, so to speak,
seen most things ; but I must own that I have
only half seen the Needle, for I had most im-fortunately
left my spectacles at home that day,
so I couldn't see to read the inscriptions on it.
They do tell me they are very curious.'

Very, I believe,' said Olive ; ' but how did
you go to it ? '

By train to Charing Cross, and just walked
along the Embankment. I like the tombs in
Westminster Abbey best  it's beautiful to seethe
great gentlemen all lying there with their
hair all in curls ! '

Olive had heard enough : she would run to
the Metropolitan Station in High Street, and get
down to. Charing Cross some time before four.
What a blessing that Lady Brooke was out!
She dressed herself quickly snatched up the
very Bradshaw which had guided her on her
Scotch journey, and speedily left the house.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

"What contrast here !
Repose, and solitude, and healthy ways.  R. Browning.

Our unlucky artist in Chaucer Street was, at
the present time, in a state of mind that was
anything but favourable to the production of
works of art. Day after day he moved big
canvases to the light, or made preparations for
impairing the beauty of large, well-strained
pieces of white paper ; but, that done, the work
in contemplation advanced no further. He was
out of love with himself, with pictures, and
with everything. What a happy fellow he had
thought himself until he learned that the young
girl to whom he had been able to render some
slight service in that unlooked-for imprisonment
at Blair Angus was no other than Olive
Brooke ! Until the day of that discovery, he
had found no difficulty in adhering faithfully to

the wise resolutions which he had made while
abroad ; but it was hard indeed now to
acquiesce in the conviction that she could never
be more to him than a beautiful remembrance,
and that it would be folly to play with the
dream of her ever becoming his wife. Until
then his work had been, as he intended that it
should be, happiness enough for him ; until
then the unlovehness,and smallness, and poverty-stricken
appearance of his own home and all
around it had never grated on his artistic sense :
they were part of his scheme of Hfe, and he had
never counted on living otherwise. It had been
his wish to sit lightly on the world, and to have
as few cares and responsibilities as possible, so
that nothing might interfere with the calm of
mind essential to the production of good pictures.
He would have a dwelling-place which
he could shut up when he went into the country,
without caring whether rust and moth did their
worst, and with nothing to tempt thieves to
break through and steal. He felt now that he
had succeeded admirably so far as thieves were
concerned  but what would a fair young wife
say to such a home ? He had set out with the

VOL. II. R

conviction that no one could serve art with perfect
fidelity who was not free, as regarded the
best part of his work, to paint exactly what he
liked and nth what amount of pains he liked,
without caring whether such pictures, which
would be the full expression of his most
cherished thoughts, found purchasers or not.
He thought, therefore, that every man who behaved
himself born to be an artist ought to -k
a certain sum as that on which he could live insufficient
comfort to bring out the best that was
in him, to strive by all fair means to gain this
competence, and, that done, to dismiss money-making
from his mind for ever. What elaborate
selfishness all this appeared to him now !
He had, up to this time, kept himself true to his
theory easily enough ; there had, indeed, been
a certain pleasure in the extreme monotony of
toil to which he had pledged himself, with its one
well-defined ambition  that of doing good work.
What were solitude and austerity of life to the
enthusiasm of youth, all on fire with the changeful
splendour and evanescent even though everlasting
beauty of nature? Science as well as
religion had had its martyrs ; why should not

the new science of aspects, the exact knowledge
of the beauty of natural phenomena, claim the
devotion of a life ? But no such devotion, even
though keeping well on the safe side of martyrdom,
would bear thinking of for a moment
together with the idea of a wife born and bredin
luxury. It would be impossible to ask such
a one to share such a life, and cruel to test the
sublime unselfishness of the sex at the expense
of his peerless Ove. But, in spite of himself,
the dream had come back to him, and the conflict
of realities along with it. He could not but
take stock of himself, of what he possessed, of
what he had done, and of what more he was likely
to do. Of his place as a painter he could scarcely
judge, even if he had one ; but he knew that his
balance at the bank was mightily insignificant. At
the age of eighteen he had found himself an orphan
without a single near relation. His father had
made a great sacrifice to give him a good education,
and had left him all he had, which was
fi-we hundred pounds and not another penny.
Three months later, Mr. Keithley had left him
five hundred more, with, as before said, the express
condition that he should spend it in
b2

travelling and improving himself. He invested
the money bequeathed to him by his father in
the safe and fluctuating Funds : this, too, was
part of his plan ; he would not fret his soul with
share lists, or rises and falls in the market, but
would commit his nest-egg of peace to the
guardianship of Our Lady of Threadneedle
Street. This done, he felt quite rich and
moneyed, and, as it seemed to him that this
little bit of self-sacrifice was one step towards
gaining both his mistresses, he was happy and
hopeful. At that time, indeed, his future life
seemed to unroll itself in bright colours before
him. Painters whose opinion he valued spoke
in high terms of his chances of professional distinction.
Mr. Keithley's money had provided
him with means to travel, and see and study and
sketch beautiful things of all kinds, without any
feeling of culpable self-indulgence or extravagance
; when it was all spent he would come
home and work harder than ever. After his
return to England he had several successes, was
elected Associate of the Old Water-colour
Society, sold some pictures in the Ea., and
got some commissions ; in fact, was as happy as

could possibly be, until he again saw Olive, and
again could not help allowing her image to flit
before his eyes. It was a pity ; but somehow
his plans, his theories, his prim mapping out of
the future  his little arrangements, so to speak,
with fortune  fell to pieces completely ; a new
planet had swum into his ken ; another desire
beside that of attaining unknown heights in art,
and one inconsistent with it, had taken possession
of his mind. Life had become all at once
not worth living, unless he could win a prize
for which he saw no chance of being able to
equip himself so as even to become a competitor
; for he well knew that, of all avenues to
wealth and fame, that in which his steps were
set was the longest, the most laborious, the least
captivating in the eyes of the world.

No wonder his painting did not prosper as
usual, and that subtleties of colour and form,
though ever so well planted in his memory, became
tangled and confused in his drawing. He
thought of Byron's wish to have ' something
craggy to break his mind upon,' which, in his
own case, would be a good, solid bit of natural
fact to copy to the very life. He threw down

his brush and exclaimed, ' I'll go into the country
at once and forget her ! '

His faithful cat could not understand him.
His conduct was so very unlike what she expected
from him. She jumped on his knee and
curled herself up into a soft ball. ' Puss,' said
he, you and I are not half so happy together as
we used to be.'

Pussy might have told him to speak for
himself. She, with her fair portion of all his
meals, with a place by his warm fire, and a fat
sparrow of her own catching, twice or thrice a
week, had no complaint to prefer against life's
dealings with her ; but, not to seem disagreeable,
she diligently kneaded him with her feet
and purred.

A telegram for you, sir,' said his servant,
entering in dismay. Morrison read the pink
paper, and its message was this : ' Gale from
the north-east. Heavy sea on outside. Stone
seat swept off' East Pier. Schooner ashore on
Scaur. From Cuthbert Pickering, St. Hilda's,
to W. K. Morrison, Esq.'

I'll go ! ' cried Morrison. ' I am doing
less than nothing here. I told Pickering to

telegraph to me whenever there was any chance
of a tremendous gale ; I'll go at once.'

He brought his portmanteau into the studio,
and, having crammed it to the last gasp with
painting materials, began to wonder what
he was going to do about taking some clothes
away with him  he always thought of painting
things first. ' It won't do to go to St. Hilda's
without lots of clothes to get wet in ! ' thought
he. ' How those waves do come down on one !
The nastiest way of looking at a sky that I
know is through a great, dirty, yellow-coloured
mass of water that is just going to fall on one ! '

Having, somehow or other, packed a sufficiency
of clothes to get wet in, he drove off to
the Great Northern, and arrived there just intime
to take his ticket and telegraph to Mrs.
Pickering to make ready for him.

I have done right,' said he. ' Work out-of-doors
is out of the question, but I'll get some
good study at St. Hilda's. If this wind holds,
the sea will be magnificent, and I can't afford to
spend my life in pursuing a shadow.'

He was determined to drive Olive out of
his head. He read all the way down. How

cold and wintry the journey was, and how difficult
it was not to think of that other railway
journey not three months before !

It was midnight before he reached St.
Hilda's, and the station was nearly dark ; no
one was there but two or three officials, and
they were only awaiting the arrival of this last
train to shut the doors and go home to their
beds. St. Hilda's was a terminus, and, except
during the fishing and bathing seasons, trains
were never crowded. When Morrison stepped
on the platform he was met by a friendly cabdriver
who was an old acquaintance of his. ' I
suppose there are not many people here now
that the weather is so stormy ? ' said Morrison.

Bless you, sir, no ! There's not been a job
by the mail train for the last month.'

Morrison resigned himself to be a 'job,' and
was driven along the quay-side nearly as far
as the pier, for on his first visit to St. Haldane
had chosen Mr. Pickering's lodgings as
giving him the best opportunity of studying
fishermen and fishing-boats, and the splendid
old red houses on the opposite side of the
harbour, under every varying effect of light

and atmosphere. As he drove along by the
water's edge, this eyes rested in delight on
certain well-remembered landmarks of a place
which had a great hold on his regard. There
were the lights of the old town, and the larger
lamps which marked the hne of the long flight
of steps to the church at the very top of the
wind-swept cliff. The town was lost in rich
black shade, but the church above stood out
squat and dark against a wild and storm-rent
sky. Large clouds were hurrying by, or spreading
thin films over a frosty, cold moon. He
heard the boom of the sea as it beat against the
pier. He felt another man, full of excitement
of eye and mind ; and when the carriage
stopped, if he had not had some regard to the
proprieties of life, he would at once have made
his way to the end of the pier to see if he could
not get a peep at the wrecked schooner ; but
Mr. Pickering was smiling and bowing at the
bottom of the steps, and his wife, kindly soul,
was smiling from ear to ear at the top, and a
great fire was blazing in the sitting-room, and
on a footstool in front of it was a tabby cat.
Mrs. Pickering showed her to him and said :

We've setter the poor cat afore t' fire, sir,
because that was how you always liked to have
her. I reckon she'll remember you. Oh, please,
sir, never think nothing of your luggage ; our
Cuthbert will see to that, won't you, Cuthbert,
honey? and Mr. Merrison, sir, just you sit
down and get something to eat while it's warm
and comfortable.'

It was warm and most comfortable, and Mrs.
Pickering brought it herself, and in the fulness
of her joy at having a lodger whom she liked
back in her house in the very depth of winter,
when no one else 'was let,' chattered and
waited on him at the same time. What a
supper she had provided for him ! First came
a dish of ham and eggs, and then some chops,
and after that appeared a chicken roasted to a
turn. ' I know you like a nice tender young
chicken,' said she, ' and after that you'll have

Good heavens ! don't kill me, Mrs.
Pickering.'

Kill you, sir  no, Lord love you, I'll not
do that, but you are tied to be hungry after
your long cold journey.'

Are there many visitors here ? ' he asked,
by way of a grim joke, for he still heard the
great waves crashing down on the east pier, and
the wind moaning outside.

Visitors ! Bless you, no, sir ! There's nota
visitor in the place but you and a family next
door.'

It was very good of Mr. Pickering to tell
me about the schooner coming ashore. I was
determined to set off at once, as soon as I heard
it was there.'

Mrs. Pickering's face fell. 'She has gone
clean to pieces, sir ; but there's a brig run aground
in the harbour  maybe she'll do ? '

Maybe, indeed ! How Morrison wished for
daylight !

Next morning he rose early. The fresh sea
air made him feel light and happy, the thought
of the view which lay before his windows
stimulated him as nothing in London could
have done, and he ran to pull up his blind with
much of the joyful flutter of childhood when
on the edge of a new delight. St. Hilda's was
divided into an old town and a new one, separated
by the harbour and river, and connected

by a picturesque bridge which was always
being opened to let some strange old-fashioned
craft pass through. Steep cuffs rose on both
sides of the river, and both were densely
crowded with fine old red-tiled houses which
rose tier above tier from the water's edge to
within a few feet of the top. The only difference
was that the cliff under which Morrison's
small abode nestled was surmounted by rows of
modern lodging-houses, on which he was only
too glad to turn his back, and that opposite to
him was crowned by a magnificent fragment of
an abbey ; a stately manor-house, much of which
had been built of stones pilfered from the
monastery ; and one of the strangest and most
picturesque churches in the kingdom. As Morrison
drew up his blind, he saw it quietly
brooding over the crowds of gravestones which
lay around in such profusion as to whiten the
top of the cliff. Below, the habitations of the
living were just beginning to look rosy and
bright in the sunshine, and with one consent
all the chimneys in the place were sending up
their little shafts of smoke and plainly declaring
to all the world that it was now the breakfast

hour at St. Hilda's. How lovely the sun-tinted
smoke was, and how exquisitely beautiful the
vision of the ruin above, silver-grey in the frosty
morning mist! But suddenly he saw another
sight which filled him with a still keener delight.
The brig which had come ashore, and which
he had till this moment forgotten, was lying
just under the east cliff  if he had had the
arranging of it himself, he could not have put
it in any place where it would have come better
in a picture which he had long wished to paint
of the town from that side of the river. He
hurried over his breakfast, for he knew that the
brig would not be there long. He must work
like a horse all day, and then, if Providence
would but send him the sight of a fine sky, his
picture, with that brig in the foreground, would
do. The storms of the preceding days had
cleared the air, the day was bright, and the
cold intense. The sea had not yet gone down,
and a broad belt of snowy white marked the
limit of the dreaded Scaur, as the floor of rock
was called which ran out to sea for a good
quarter of a mile, on one side of the harbour.
All this was covered now. He made ready to

go out ; but just as he was taking a last look at
the state of the tide, he caught sight of a table
which was being placed in the bay window of
the next house. It was not so much the table
that interested him, as the fact that a glass of
pure water was set on it, and this in the month
of January seemed to betoken the neighbourhood
of a brother artist. ' Confound the fellow,'
cried he, ' he is going to pounce on my brig !
Who would have thought of any artist being
here in such weather as this ! A drawing-board
was then propped up on the table, but the
hands which performed the deed seemed to be
very small ones. Then came a colour box, and
the artist sat down; but still Morrison saw
nothing but the hands aforesaid and a fragment
of wrist and sleeve, but the wrist was a very
slender one and the sleeve was of peacock
blue ! ' Some poor girl must be going to make
a mess of that subject ! ' was the thought which
ran through the arrogant masculine mind.
Well, she won't find it easy ! Those houses,
for one thing, will give her a peck of trouble.'
As he crossed the road, he cast one upward
glance at the sketcher, but he saw nothing but

lier shining dark hair and patiently bent head,
and in another minute the heart-kindling 
of the scene before him had driven
everything else out of his mind.

How long will that brig be there ? ' was
the question he put to the first sailor he met.

Not very long if they are wise ! She'll
soon strain herself all to pieces if she stops
there. I should think they'll lose no time in
getting her cargo off her, and then I make no
doubt but she'll float.'

How did she come to grief? '

She missed her course a bit, and ran
aground directly  it was done last night, sir.
Maybe you saw her ? '

No. I was not here. What is her cargo ? '

Wood. She's just come from the Baltic.
They'll soon unload her and get her off when
the tide flows.'

That, as Morrison knew, would be at seven ;
so he hurried across the bridge to the east
or opposite pier, resolved to work till dark.
When the sun set, it did so in a flood of orange
and crimson, which translated the houses before
him into a beatific vision.

He was more happy than tongue can tell in
doing his best to seize on this bit of heaven-sent
beauty, and he walked home in grateful
thankfulness.

He had forgotten all about his sister in art ;
but just as he was about to cross the road to go
in, he chanced to look up, and standing at the
window of the house next to his was a girl
looking out. The room was full of a blaze of
fire-light and it illumined her face. It was a
very charming face, but it seemed to him that
he had seen it before.

Mrs. Pickering,' cried he, for he met her
as he went in, ' who is the lady who is lodging
next door ? '

She is an artist, sir, and a pretty good oneby
what our Cuthbert tells me, and rely he is a
capital judge of what a picture ought to be ! '

Do you happen to know her name ? '

Her name is Keithley, sir  Miss Rosamond
Keithley. She has been here better than a
month with an aunt.'

Eosamond Keithley! How strange! That
was the name of a niece of his dear old friend's.
He had seen her once or twice at his house.

but he chiefly recollected her as the delighted
partaker of a pleasure he always allowed himself
when he went there  that of looking over
Turner's England and Wales, one of Mr. Keith-ley's
most treasured possessions. 'Does she
paint, do you say ? '

Almost as hard as you, sir  I am sure, if
it was me, I'd tire.'

And is she pretty ? '

She is that pretty, sir, you might take and
frame her for a picture ! '

VOL. II.

CHAPTER Xxvii.

Work apace,
Honest labour bears a lovely face.  Dekkee.

'She is that pretty, you might take and
frame her for a picture ! ' had been Mrs. Pickering's
words when speaking of the beautiful
young lady who was lodging next door ; but
Morrison was so full of the beauty of that brig
that he never thought of anything else for a
fortnight. He made ' our Cuthbert ' take down
a bed, and thus converted an upstairs bedroom,
with a good sky-light, into a very fair studio,
and set to work at once to transfer to canvas
as much of the charm of the scene which had
taken possession of his mind as he could. He
worked from daybreak to dusk, carried on with
one burst of enthusiasm, never flagging, and
hardly allowing himself time for a breath of air
or a mouthful of food. As for Olive, he had no

time to think of her, so absorbing in its intensity
was his desire to make his own of what he had
seen. He never once thought about how he
was succeeding  he only knew that he was very
happy. From time to time he ran out to study
some detail, and then back to his work, as to
the greatest joy the world could give him.

Interruptions were few at St. Hilda's, but in
order to have none at all, he had locked his
door. Perhaps he was rather afraid of his
talkative landlady. One day, however, he
heard a knock given with much sacrifice of
knuckles, and, looking round, he saw that a
note was being pushed under his door. After
a while he condescended to pick it up, not
without accompanying the action by one or two
remarks not intended for the ear of the public.
It was a pretty-looking note enough, and written
by a lady. He opened it, not at the moment
liking it any the better for that fact. The letters
he received from ladies were usually appeals for
help and guidance in the thorny paths of art,
and he, alas! felt his own feet bruised and
failing at every turn. He read the note : 

Mrs. Reuben Keithley presents her compliments to

Mr. W. K. Morrison, whose arrival in St. Hilda's has
only recently become known to her. As an old friend
of her family, Mrs. Keithley hopes Mr. Morrison will
call and see her. She herself has not the pleasure of
his acquaintance, but her niece well remembers seeing
him when she was a child, and on a visit to her late
uncle in London. If Mr. Morrison would kindly call
about three o'clock to-day, Mrs. Keithley would esteem
it a great favour. She is very anxious to have a good
professional opinion of her niece's sketches in watercolours.
Miss R. Keithley has lately devoted much
time to drawing, and her ambition is to make as it
were a profession of it. This, however, Mrs. Keithley
feels, ought not to be encoui-aged unless her talent is a
very decided one, as otherwise such a decision could only
be productive of disappointment.

One can't escape worry even at a place like
this ! ' cried he, ' but I ought to go.' He had
once or twice already vaguely thought that it
was his duty to show some civility to these
people next door  that is, if they were related
to his Mr. Keithley ; but then he was not by any
means sure of this, and did not know how to
find out. He scribbled a line to say he would
be there at the time named, and then tried to
ignore the break in his work.

Mrs. Reuben Keithley was an invalid lady,
kind in manner and pleasant of face. Miss
Eose was out, of which he was glad, seeing thane
had to pronounce an opinion of her work.

I have not told Eose that I have asked you
to come,' said Mrs. Keithley ; ' she is so very
anxious to paint, that I should have been afraid
to have let you see her sketches in her presence,
lest you did not like them.'

Excuse my asking if there is any necessity
for her doing work of some kind ? '

Oh dear, no  no necessity at all ! She has
nothing from her own father; but the mr.
Keithley you knew, left her a hundred a year,
which is a very tidy little fortune for a girl,
and she has a great many kind relations with
whom she lives in turn ; but they all detest the
idea of her meddling with art professionally,
and lead her rather a bad Hfe about it. What
she wants to know is, whether she has talent
enough to justify her in making a strong effort
to gain her point.'

But why not go on as she is doing now ? '

Oh, her love of painting is really a passion,
and she does not believe that her work will ever
be of any value unless she sets about it as a
man would do, and takes her chance of all the
ups and downs and severe criticisms of a professional
career. She tells me, Mr. Morrison,

that she will never hear a word of truth about
the things she does so long as she is only an
amateur, and never can know whether she is
right or wrong

There is a great deal of truth in that, and
I dare say she likes the excitement of making
her way.'

She does ; but all the Keithleys hate it 
they are furious at the idea of such a thing, and
the end will be that they will make themselves
very unpleasant to her. I am a poor, weak-willed
invalid  she likes being with me, for I
let her have all her own way.'

The drawings were decidedly good for an
amateur. Morrison, however, saw some great
faults in them, and was honest enough to
say so.

You would be doing my niece a very
great kindness if you would repeat all this to
her  I am sorry to say that my poor head will
never carry a quarter of what you have told
me.'

I shall be delighted if I can be of the
slightest service to Miss Keithley  I ought to
be, I am sure, considering the name she bears.'

Thank you ; that's how I said you would
feel ! She will be here in a minute. The fine
day tempted her out, but she has only gone to
Eastwick by the cliffs ; she went at two, and
said that she would walk back by the Scaur.'

The Scaur ! ' cried Morrison ; ' I hope not !
how terribly foolish ! '

'foolish!" Why?' exclaimed Mrs. Keith-ley,
in great alarm. ' There is no danger, I
hope ? The tide is all right for her  it won't
be high till half past five.'

'Yes,' said Morrison, bethinking himself,
but it's so dreadfully slippery there ! '

Oh, she won't mind that  she is very sure-footed.
She ought to be here soon. Let us
see if she is in sight. She said I was to lookout
of the window and watch her going up the
Scar-ladder, and along the side of the cliff
there, at a quarter to four. That's why I asked
you to call now, Mr. Morrison : I thought she
would just come in at the end of our talk, and
hear what you have to tell her about her drawings
without the nervousness of being present
while you were examining them.'

Her work is beautiful,' cried Morrison ;

but I must not stay to see lier now  I have
an engagement  excuse my going away so
suddenly  I must  I'll run in again, if you will
allow me.' He went away as quickly as he
could ; for if that foolish girl had carried out her
intention of going to Eastwick Bay by the cliffs
and walking home by the Scaur so as to arrive
at the Scar-ladder at 3.45, the latter part of
that plan could assuredly never be carried outby
her, for at 3.45, the way which led to the
Scar-ladder would be deep under the water.
At least, he thought so ; for as he ran along the
road to the boatman's house, he began to feel
uncertain about everything. It is so difficult to
calculate the ebb and flow of anything so full of
change as the tide, when life or death depends
on your doing it accurately. Two days before
he had been on the pier just at high water, and
for some reason connected with his work had
made a note of the time, and now with whirling
brain he tried to add on the proper number of
minutes per tide, so as to discover at what hour
it would be high to-day. He was right  that
time was half-past five.

The boatman was not in ; Morrison ran along

the quay hoping to find some sailor, and still
thinking and counting up chances all the way
as he went. There would be no difficulty in
rescuing her if he could but reach her with a
boat, but it was now ten minutes to four, and
by this time she must, if on the Scaur, be
hemmed in by the tide and in an agony of fear.
This was the special danger of the Scaur. You
were caught in a trap unawares. There was a
way down to the shore from the cliff opposite,
by what was called the Scar-ladder  a long
flight of steep steps which bridged over the
space between the pier and the cliff  and
another about a mile and a half farther on,
at Eastwick Nab. Both these points, however,
jutted into the sea, and both were reached by
the tide and deeply covered by it long before
the mile and a half of smooth grey flooring
which lay between them showed any sign of
danger. None but those familiar with the place
could know that all escape by either of these
ways would be cut off more than two hours
before the tide seemed even to be getting high
on the shore between them. How could a
stranger know this ? Your landlady would tell

you that it was dangerous, and you went
there and saw a mile or two of this glistening
grey expanse stretching away before you, broad,
level, and unbroken, except by an occasional
chasm or ledge in the rock, or tangle of seaweed
; and here were fossils, St. Hilda's headless
snakes, and brittle belemnites, and pools
full of the sea's fallen stars, as the Scotch so
prettily call the jelly-fish, and waifs and strays
of carnelian and jet  you might spend hours in
such a spot and not see half its treasures. But
once too late for one place of exit, you were
too late for the other also, and between the two
was nothing but the greedy sea on the one hand,
rushing open-mouthed at its victim, and a range
of sea-cliffs which rose perpendicularly to the
height of nearly three hundred feet and hemmed
you in to your fate.

Morrison thought of all these things till
he was sick at heart ; and though it was not
ten minutes after his abrupt departure from Mrs.
Keithley before he had found a man and coble,
he counted the time by hours. The man
nodded his head and said there was no time
to lose, but that the sea was running rather

strong, and he must have his mate with him.
Morrison made no objection  he himself was
not much of a seaman, and all that he contributed
to the undertaking was presence of
mind and goodwill. He had run honor the
quay-side without seeing a sailor ; his newly-found
man, David Smiles, dived into a house
and brought out a dozen directly, and in less
than a quarter of an hour after leaving Mrs.
Keithley's, Morrison and two of them were
pulling hard to the harbour's mouth.

She will be safe enough for some time to
come ? ' said Morrison interrogatively.

Yes, and maybe not know she's in any
danger,' said one of the men. ' That's how
they are ! I've known us men row till wee
were fairly melted away, and just find the folks
we had gone after a-sitting on a rock admiring
the fine prospect, or a-picking up pretty shells
on the shore, and never thinking how near
they was to being drownded.'

That's better than getting into a great fuss
and most bursting their hearts with fright,'
said his mate. * In a general way, when folks
gets to this end of the Scaur, and finds the

water's up, what they takes and does is this :
they sets off running as fast as their legs can carry
them back to Eastwick Nab, and thinks that
they will have time to get back that way, and
that's just what they never have, for the
water's high there quite as soon as it's high here.'

It is so,' said David Smiles ; ' that's the
way Mr. Anderson got himself drownded two
years gone February. He was running as
hard as he could, and we were rowing out to
save him if he would ha' letter us, but he
never looked round, for all we kept holbein'
to him. It's a true saying that twice as many
folks drowns themselves as is ever drownded.'

But was he drowned when you were so
near with a boat ? '

Yes ; we could neither get up to him
nor make him hear; if he had run to us
instead of from us  but them as is born to
be drownded won't die in their beds ! It was
a bad job.'

Outside the harbour it was very rough
indeed, and more than once Morrison thought
the coble would be dashed against the pier or
swamped ; but the men well knew how to

manage her, and Morrison soon saw that there
was no cause for anxiety.

A strip of the Scaur was still uncovered,
but it was rapidly becoming narrower ; no one
was there  at least, Morrison could discover
no one, nor could the lynx-eyed sailors. He
tried to peer into the clefts and crannies of the
great lowering cliffs, but he saw nothing that
resembled a figure. The coble was now in
smoother water, but the great white waves were
leaping up against the Scar-ladder and dashing
through the opening beneath it. Perhaps Miss
Keithley had changed her mind about walking
home this way, and at this very moment was
safe and happy in her own home. This was
just one of those cases where it had been
necessary to act immediately if at all. If he
had waited ten minutes more to see if she did
not walk leisurely home by the usual everyday
path, and she had not appeared, it would then
have been too late to go off in search of her,
and all chance of saving her would probably
have been lost.

I see no one,' said Morrison ; ' she can't
have come this way.'

The men, too, said they saw no one ; but
all three declared that it was necessary to go
quite to the extreme end of the Scaur before
they could be sure that no one was there.
They now pulled a little more slowly, and were
able to speak to each other.

'Do you see that hump of rock astern
there, sir ? ' inquired one .of the sailors, nodding
in the direction which he wished Morrison's
eyes to take.

Yes,' replied Morrison.

'Eight men were saved there, all by the
sense of one dog.'

How so ? ' asked Morrison, giving one
quick look at this ledge with a history, and two
long ones all around, to try to discover Miss
Keithley.

They were in a schooner which had goton
the rocks, sir, and it was driven right up there
close to that great rock that projects so, and
all the crew was on deck looking for nothing
less than death, and expecting she'd go to
pieces every minute, when a dog they had
with them just walked along the bowsprit, and
made a bold jump on shore for life, and somehow

got on that ledge, and what that poor
four-footed dumb creature had done, the men
thought they might manage to do too, and did
it; but when they were on the rock they
hardens knew whether they would be washed
off or not.'

They were saved, I hope ? '

Aye, they were saved ; but they had to
stop shivering where they were all the night.
It was better nor twelve hours before anyone
found out they were there, and when folks did
see them the only way of getting them off was
to haul them up the cliff. There was a terrible
sea on for days. The men were most
perished with what they'd gone through. My
wife, poor woman, seed them all being marched
up the street, each propped up with a man to
help him along, and she gav' them their fill of
hot coffee, and set them afore t' fire, and when
I went in she said, says she, " Davie, honey,
look here; there's the dog that's saved eight
men ! " '

All this long story had been told piece by
piece, whenever the management of the coble
left David a chance of using his tongue ; but

for a minute or so, before he came to an end,
Morrison had been looking at something, and
suddenly he and the men also cried out in
the same breath, ' What is that ? ' For they
had all three caught sight of a black something
on a rock five or six feet from the ground, which
might be a crouching figure. One of the men
had a glass in his pocket and bade Morrison
take it and look, but the point was otherwise
determined, for she  it was a woman  rose to
her full height, and waved a white handkerchief.
She wore a brown dress, and this had
been the means of hiding her from their sight
until they got nearer, but how was it that she
had not seen them ? One of the men answered
this question by saying, ' Poor thing, she has
not been able to look about her for crying, I
reckon ! Well, I'm sure I had made up my
mind that she had gone home the other way
and that we'd just had our bit outing all for
nothing.'

Eow your hardest ! ' cried Davie. ' Don't
let us wait till the water's even with the rock,
or we'll maybe be mashed to watchword in
NQ minutes I '

Morrison, in the presence of these two men
who knew how to cope with an enemy of such
terrific force, and who did it so quietly, felt
himself a poor useless creature. They knew
the danger of this expedition a thousand times
better than he ; but they had calmly accepted
the duty of doing their best to save a fellow-creature,
and did not make the least merit of it.

Now, sir,' cried one, ' I'll jump out and
steady the boat a bit, and you'll get out and
fetch the lady. Me and my mate must stick by
the coble, or we'll lose her. Don't waste one
moment you can help.'

He did not lose a moment. He ran the
twenty yards or so to the cliff where Miss
Keithley was. Poor girl, she had climbed upas
far as she could, but her farthest was much
below high water level. She was trying to get
down to come to him, but was benumbed by
cold and fear ; for an hour or more she had
been perfectly aware that she stood face to face
with death. He helped her down ; she never
spoke. He half dragged her to the coble,
which the force of the sea rendered almost unmanageable,
and which in unskilled hands

VOL. ir. T

must have been stove in by the rocks in a
second. He never knew how he got her in.
Once inside, she looked up in their faces and
said, ' Thank you, and thank God ! ' and then
she covered her face with her hands and sobbed
convulsively.

Now came the worst struggle of all, against
the full strength of the incoming tide ; but the
men prevailed, and bravely fought their way to
the harbour mouth. Miss Keithley sat quite
still, possibly aware that there was still some
slight degree of danger, more probably thinking
only of the narrow escape she had had. As
for Morrison, danger or no danger, he felt that
he could have trusted himself anywhere with
those two men, whose strong, resolute, hard-set
faces delighted him so. And the whole town
of St. Hilda's was full of men like these : men
with no knowledge but how to guide a boat
through deep and angry waters, who won their
daily bread by almost daily danger, who risked
their lives for others freely and nobly ; oft-times
dying the death of heroes, but seldom being
heard of beyond the limits of their own town.

They were close by the landing-stage now,

and Morrison was giving his whole mind to
steering the boat in with precision. As it gilded
to its place, he saw Miss Keithley looking uneasily
at him. She seemed very ill, her lips
were blue, and her face deadly pale. Still, she
wanted to say something.

What is it ? ' he inquired kindly.

My aunt,' she said faintly ; ' she is such an
invalid. She must not be told about this ; help
me to keep it from her.'

He nodded, admiring her thoughtfulness,
and then he began to help her out of the coble.

She turned towards the men, who were
rubbing their foreheads with their handkerchiefs
and] shirt sleeves, and looked as if she
wanted to wait to speak to them.

Not to-day ! ' said Morrison ; ' you shall
see them tomorrow ;  I will take you to see
them at their own homes,' he added, for he saw
that she was not inclined to be hurried away
from them now without expressing some part
of her gratitude, though she was evidently unequal
to any more excitement. ' I promise I
will take you,' he said, and made her go.

T 2

CHAPTER XXIX.

Some that smile have in their hearts, I fear.
Millions of mischiefs.  Julius Ccssar.

We left Olive Brooke on her way to the
Metropolitan Eailway Station, hurrying with all
speed to secure the evidence of a woman who
professed to be able to restore her mother's
good name. She almost ran when once she
had shut the hall door, but scarcely had she got
to the top of King Street when she met Lady
Brooke, who had in reality been watching the
two northern exits from the Square for nearly
an hour. She had seen enough of the letter
which Olive had that day received to show her
that some meeting was in contemplation which
it would be highly imprudent not to put an end
to at once. ' You here, dear Olive I ' said she
sadly, as if all feeling with regard to that young
lady's recent misdemeanour had departed,

except the pain of wounded affection.
Where are you going ? '

Oh, nowhere particular ; I just came out,'
stammered Olive, with very rosy cheeks and
much confusion.

You are quite sure that you had no particular
object in coming out?' said Lady Brooke,
sweetly  so sweetly that it almost seemed as if
Olive might have confided every detail of her
errand to her stepmother, without fear of exciting
any other feeling than sympathy.

Again Olive stammered  she was not an
adept in the art of falsehood. ' Quite sure,' she
said ; but she did not look so very sure, after
aU.

That's right I Then, if you are quite certain
that there is nothing else you wish to do,
come with me to a shop round the corner. I
was just on my way back to ask you to come
and help me to choose some trimming for that
old grey dress of mine. I am very glad I met
you ! By-the-bye, Olive, you are rather a
naughty girl to walk out in this way! You
know I don't like your going about alone.'

I know,' replied Olive ; ' but now and then

you must let me do it. You were out, and I
don't like having a servant with me.'

Still you really ought to have some one
with you. Don't do it again, Olive.'

Olive held her peace, for she knew that that
very night she intended to go to the Carmelite
Church, in the dark, and quite alone. She had,
she feared, lost all chance of keeping the first
appointment, and must keep the second. What
a blessing that woman  whose name, to her
great astonishment, she found that she had already
forgotten  had given her this second
chance of seeing her ! To-night she would
have no difficulty in going out. Lady Brooke
was to dine in Leinster Square at eight, and
Olive would have ample time to get to the
Carmelite Church after her departure. Feeling,
therefore, easy on this point, she showed no
vexation at being thus carried off to a draper's
shop, and, when there, threw such an air of
heartfelt earnestness and interest into all the
questions under consideration, that Lady Brooke
began to think that she could not have come outwith
any other object than that of spending an
idle half-hour in the open air.

I declare,' cried that lady at length, ' we
have spent a whole hour in this shop ! Do you
know it is actually four o'clock ! ' Four o'clock,
and at this very hour the writer of that letter
was waiting for Olive at the appointed place !

My head aches ! ' said Lady Brooke wearily,
as she walked homewards. ' They do keep
those shops so hot : I wish I had not come
out, it is so horrible to have to sit through a
long dinner when one's head aches ! '

Olive began to tremble a little lest she
should again be disappointed, and said, ' It is
not far to Leinster Square ; that's a good thing
at all events.'

Oh, no, the distance is nothing ; besides I
can send you in my place if I feel worse.'

Oh, please don't do that. I couldn't go
out alone, and then I have hardly spoken three
words to Lady Strathspey in my whole life ! '

It was very rude of her not to invite you,
and if I go to-night I intend to make her aware
that I think so  I shall be able to do that
somehow  but if you did go, you wouldn't
have to go alone. Your Uncle and Aunt Raymond
are invited, and they said they would call

for me at a quarter to eight. How terribly we
feel the loss of that carriage ! ' Lady Brooke
had sent back Dr. Brooke's carriage in case Mrs.
Brooke wished to use it, and very angry she was
at having to give it up.

The moment they were at home, Olive persuaded
her stepmother to lie down on the sofa
and rest. She did not wish to appear too
desirous of getting rid of her, but secretly
trembled with anxiety lest she should stay at
home. ' I'll go and leave you,' said she. ' If
you sleep a while, you will feel better.'

I sleep ! ' cried Lady Brooke ; ' I am in
too much pain to do that ! Don't leave me,
dear. I hate being alone when I am iU.'

The truth was, she feared to let Olive go
out of her sight lest she should steal away to
confer with some enemy. Olive felt that she
had better stay, so she sat down in a corner out
of sight and tried to lay her plans for the evening.
Come what might, she was resolved to
keep this second appointment. Even if she
were sent to dine at Lady Strathspey's in her
stepmother's place, she would still keep it !
Lady Brooke lay quietly on the sofa, and from

time to time Olive inquired how she felt, and
sometimes she felt better and sometimes worse,
but when seven o'clock came she said, ' I think
I'll make an effort to go,' and went to her room
to dress. Much comforted by this, Olive also
went to dress. She would have preferred to
make no change in her attire, but dared not
depart from any daily custom. In about half
an hour, the two ladies came downstairs together
; but just as Olive was about to obey a
summons to go and eat her lonely little dinner,
rejoicing in the thought that in another quarter
of an hoi: her stepmother would be gone, and
that she herself would have nothing to do but
to throw on her ulster and hat, which were now
lying ready in a dark corner of her bed-room,
and go too. Lady Brooke said, 'After all, Ohve,
I'm afraid I can't go ! The moment I leave
the sofa, the pain is as great as ever ; besides,
it is so absurd to make myself miserable. Everyone
there would far rather have a nice bright
girl like you to look at and talk to, than a
headachy old married woman. You go, Ohve ;
you are ready.'

Very well,' replied Olive, who knew that

it was in vain to resist, and who had devised a
bold scheme for the attainment of her wishes,
while sitting for two hours by firelight.

You don't mind going, dear ? ' inquired
Lady Brooke searchingly, for she could not be
quite sure that her fugitive glimpses of Hannah
Deanham's letter had supplied her with a version
that could be absolutely depended on.

I'd much rather not go,' began Olive ; but,
looking up, she saw that there were no signs of
yielding in her stepmother's face, so she most
judiciously concluded with, ' but of course I'll
go with pleasure, if it will save you any pain

Thank you. Yes ; I really could not bear

it;

Under the white cloak which Olive threw
over her dress she contrived to secrete a dark
one, thin enough to go into a small compass,
and then she returned to Lady Brooke, who
had once more taken refuge on the sofa, and
was too ill to be observant.

There they are ! ' cried she presently.
Eun down, Olive, or your Aunt Raymond will
get out and begin talking to me and make you
all too late.'

Olive obeyed with the greatest alacrity, for
time was of the greatest importance to her ;
but as the door of the carriage was shut after
her entrance, she screamed loudly, for the man
had shut it too quickly, and had pinched her
finger. This accident had been of her own
contriving. She had made up her mind that it
was better to go through life, if need were, with
a slightly injured finger, than to fail to do what
was of such vital consequence to her own
mother. She had played her part thoroughly,
and the tip of her finger was so much hurt that
she could hardly restrain her tears.

You had better go back, darling,' cried
both the Eaymonds, in great distress. 'You
can't possibly appear amongst a number of
strangers.'

Oh, I think I can,' said Olive, who did not
want to go back. ' It will be better before we
get to Leinster Square. At any rate, I don't
like to give in without making an attempt to
bear it. Suppose I go as far as Lady Strathspey's
house with you ; and if my finger is
better I'll go in, and if not, your man will be
so good as to take me home again.'

Brave Olive ! ' cried her Uncle Vincent

Poor child,' cried her aunt ; ' how sorry I
am ! I can see what pain you are in.' For Olive
really was suffering sharp pangs, and expressed
her anguish by various contortions. ' It would
be absurd to punish yourself by spending all
these hours in a strange house when you are in
such a state. You had much better go home !
"We must take you on with us now, for we area
little late, but don't attempt to go. in  go
home, dear.'

If you really think I may, aunt ' began

Olive.

Of course you may. It would be absurd
to do anything else. Let Eobert drive you
home, and then send him off at once for a
doctor. Or would it not be better if your
Uncle Vincent went back with you ? ' But Olive
would not hear of that. No sooner had the
Eaymonds left her, than she said, 'Eobert,
please stop at the Carmelite Church on your
way back. I want to go into it for a minute
or so. Drive quickly, please.'

Young Miss wants to make some private
profession of faith,' thought he ; but it was all

one to him what she professed, he had nothing
to do but obey. The Eaymonds had been a
little behind their time, and it was a quarter
past eight when she reached the church ; but a
quarter of an hour would make no great difference,
her correspondent would surely allow as
much grace as is accorded at a dinner. Ove
had already thrown her dark cloak over her
light dress. ' Wait for me, Eobert,' said she ;
wait just there, round that dark corner.' Her
intention was to bring the writer of the letter
out of the church, and to ask her to sit in the
carriage with her while their conversation lasted,
and thus she hoped to escape all observation or
interruption. She went into the church. It
was nearly dark, and was quiet and silent. No
service was going on ; no one was kneeling on
the third bench, either at the right end of it or
at the left. Some few persons were kneeling
in other parts of the church. She approached
each of these in turn. Three of them were
men, two girls, and there was one old woman.
To be quite sure that she neglected no possible
opportunity, Olive sat down by the old woman
and went through the prescribed formula. For

this purpose she had taken a pair of dark gloves
with her, but they produced no effect on the
kneeler, and, convinced that she was not the
person of whom she was in search, Ohve rose to
go nearer the door. There was no change in
the aspect of that part of the church since she
had gone away, no new person had entered ;
and, though she stood watching for some time,
no one came. She went to the third bench and
sat down, arranging her handkerchief and
gloves as she had been bidden to do, and then
once more she waited  not hopefully now,
but with eyes heavy with tears. It was very
bitter to her to fail. She sat half an hour, and
each moment that she stayed there the consciousness
of her dear mother's perfect and entire
innocence became a more and more distinct and
firm conviction. She felt absolute reliance on
it, and trusted also in its being one day declared
to all. Her tears fell no longer. She would
wait and hope for the coming of that day. Still,
she longed for the revelation to be made now.
But, alas ! none came ; one by one, those who
had been in the church when she entered departed,
and at last she felt that it was in vain to

wait any longer. Not till she was nearly out of
the church did she feel the pain of her finger. It
was hurting her terribly, and had been doing so
all the time she had been there, but the intensity
of her thoughts had made her altogether unconscious
of it. ' If it hurts like this all night,'
thought she, ' I shall not be able to close my
eyes. I will go and ask the doctor what to do for
it; he is sure to be able to stop the pain a little
Lady Brooke's doctor lived in Young Street ;
Olive told the coachman to drive there. The
doctor was in, but the servant said that he had
some friends dining with him ; still he was sure
if Miss Brooke would wait a moment he would
see her. The pain was so excessive that Ohve
reluctantly consented. She did not like to
intrude on him, but if she did not she would
have to wait imtil the last of his friends took
leave. She was shown into a study with the
usual medical equipment of arm-chairs and
writing tables, and with four large Landseer
engravings hanging one on each side of the
room. She was tired of ' Bolton Abbey in the
Olden Time,' and of vindictive stags, so she
fixed her eyes on the ' Old Shepherd's Chief

Mourner,' because Mr. Euskiri had written so
much and so well about it. It was not so easy,
however, to fix her thoughts on it ; she could
not. It was some time before the doctor came ;
but Olive did not mind waiting  she was very
near home now, and besides she had just
remembered that by this visit she had innocently
supplied herself with an excellent excuse
for having spent so much time on her way home.
Lady Brooke would naturally think that she
had spent all the time which had elapsed
between her leaving the Eaymonds and reaching
home in waiting for the poor old doctor. It
was well that she had this excuse, for it was
now after nine. Presently the doctor came,
did something medical and comforting to the
finger, and assured her that, though the injury
she had received was extremely painful, it
would not be permanent. ' You know the
pretty story about Mrs. Disraeli and her finger?'
said he.

Olive did not; so he told her how once,
when going down to the House with her husband
when he was about to speak on some very
important occasion, Mrs. Disraeli had met with

the self-same accident which had just befallen
his fair yoimg patient. She had, however, for
her husband's sake uttered no cry of pain, and
had not even let him know what had happened,
lest it should distract his thoughts from his
speech.'

Ah ! ' said Olive, ' that's what I should so
like to have done, but I screamed loudly ; '
then she remembered that the scream was a
necessary part of her programme, and that she
must go home. It was half-past nine when she
gratefully bade the doctor good night, and in
less than fie minutes more she was at home.

She went into the drawing-room at once to
seek her stepmother ; not anxious or excited
now ; her half-hour of meditation in the church
had made her calm, resolute, and patiently
watchful. In God's good time she would know
the truth and be able to establish it. Lady
Brooke was not in the drawing-room  nor was
she in her own room, for when Olive went
upstairs she saw her stepmother's door open,
and, on going in to explain her own return,
foimd it empty. She rang to inquire where
Lady Brooke was. The maid knew nothing

VOL. II. U

about her. She said she thought she was in the
drawing-room. So Ohve went back there to
wait and to wonder until she came. At 9.55,
to her great surprise, Lady Brooke walked in,
dressed in her bonnet and an old grey waterproof,
under which her pretty evening-dress was
ruthlessly tucked up. It was of soft pearl-grey
satin, and a bit of it had dropped down
unawares. She had evidently not expected to
find Olive at home so early, but had intended
at once to take off her out-door garments,
arrange herself in invalid-fashion on the sofa
again, and keep her absence from home a strict
secret. So at least Olive thought from her
manner, which showed her to be extremely
disconcerted by this unlooked-for detection.
She soon rallied and said, ' Olive, I am sure
you must wonder where I have been ; I'll tell
you, dear. My head grew worse every minute,
so at last I took the sudden resolution to go and
ask Mr. Seymour if he could not give me something
to relieve it  you know his house  it's
close by  so I put on my bonnet and this great
loose cloak and went dressed anyhow, as you
see ; but when I got there the wretched man had

gone out to see a patient, and I did not like to
come back without seeing him, so I waited
there a whole hour. It was not nine when I
went, and it is nearly ten o'clock now, and I
have been sitting in that stuffy little consulting-room
of this all that time, nth nothing in the
world to do or look at but four Landseer
engravings. If you would like to hear an
accurate description of any of them, I can give
it to you, for I have studied every detail of
each picture.'

Olive almost gasped at the magnitude of
this untruth, for she herself had been sitting in
that very room only a minute or two before ;
and besides that, she knew that Mr. Seymour
had not been out to see any patient, but had,
on the contrary, been entertaining friends at
home. ' Do you mean that you have just come
from Mr. Seymour's ? ' she said, thinking that
Lady Brooke could not possibly be guilty of
so black an untruth, and that there must be
some great mistake.

Yes ; I have just left his house after waiting
sixty weary minutes.'

But why did you not leave a message for
him to come here, and come away yourself? '

V 2

Oh, I hadn't the heart  he has been out
once this evening, and if I had done that, he
would have run off here in a great hurry as
soon as he came home, thinking I was in
extremis

Ove wondered what to do  if she said, ' I,
too, have been at Mr. Seymour's,' it was like
convicting Lady Brooke of falsehood. If she
said nothing, the doctor himself would be sure
on his next visit to say something which would
reveal the fact that he had seen her. Let him
do so : Olive would leave that to happen as it
would. She did not know what to say, and
made this very odd remark, ' I wonder Aunt
Ullathorne does not employ Mr. Seymour ; her
doctor lives in Simple Street, and it is so nice
to have one close at hand.'

Very,' replied Lady Brooke ; ' that's why I
chose this man ; but I did not expect him to
keep me looking at his trumpery works of art
for sixty minutes by his own clock. By-the-by,
Olive, how do you happen to be at home so
early ? Has anything happened ? '

Olive in a few words explained the reason
of her return, on which Lady Brooke cried

with great eagerness, ' But your finger must be
attended to at once. I will send for Mr.
Seymour.'

Olive recoiled. It was bad enough to know
that her stepmother had not spoken the truth ;
but it would be terrible to be present when
her falsehood was openly proclaimed, as it
must infallibly be if Mr. Seymour were brought.
After such an exposure her stepmother and
she could no hosier remain together  that
would be impossible ! Lady Brooke's hand was
on the bell, but slowly it fell down by her
side. She had not rung  probably she dared
not. Had she done so, Olive would have prevented
her from summoning the doctor by
telling her that she had only just left his house.
As it was, Lady Brooke seemed to forget about
sending for him, and for her father's sake Olive
let this rag of covering for her stepmother's
perfidy remain undisturbed ; but for her own
outcast and forlorn mother's sake she determined
to spend night and day in watching this
treacherous woman with whom she now abode.

CHAPTEE XXX.

Well, which of these must take my life in hand ?
Pray God it be the better. Swinburne.

Morrison was still at St. Hilda's, and had never
once wished to leave it. He had made great
progress with his big picture, and had begun
another from Eastwick Nab ; but he was not
leading quite so lonely a life as before, for he
had become very intimate with his new friends
in the next house, and often passed his evenings
with them. He found their companionship
very pleasant, and though he sometimes told
himself that he ought to stay at home and do
some studies in black and white, he almost
always went there instead. It was delightful
to him to see how much he could do to help
and encourage anyone so sincere in her desire
for help and guidance as Miss Eosamond
Keithley. He did not think her exactly

pretty  at least, not at first  but found a
great charm in her perfect honesty and freedom
from all trace of conceit and affectation.
Her face was one which would naturally bethought
beautiful by country-folks like the
Pickering, for she had a very exquisite colour
and complexion, dazzlingly white teeth, and
bright well-set eyes. They were large and
dark, and looked thoroughly kind and honest.
She was manifestly a woman who might be
trusted implicitly, and really was very pretty ;
but her beauty was entirely due to sweetness
of nature. She was rather short, but had a
good figure, a winning manner, and a splendid
physique. She never tired, scarcely knew what
a headache was ; had heard of people who
suffered from toothache, but was only acquainted
with the malady by hearsay; and,
notwithstanding her good health, was neither
boastful nor boisterous, but a very quiet,
gentle, helpful woman, with a marvellous gift
of unselfishness. To her Morrison's conversation,
coloured as it was by his intense feeling
for beauty, and his knowledge on so many
points on which she felt herself to be so

ignorant, was a perfect intellectual feast ; nevertheless,
as she knew her aunt enjoyed talking,
she for the most part contented herself with
listening in delighted silence. Mrs. Keithley
talked, questioned, and provoked discussion,
and her niece played the part of listener until
conversation either became too deep or too
technical for her aunt, and then she herself
spoke, and always in a way which proved to
Morrison that she had been taking the closest
interest in all that had gone before.

It is always flattering to any man, young or
old, to see a pan* of bright eyes grow brighter
when he has said anything remarkably welland
Miss Keithley very often thought that he
said things remarkably well. Morrison began
to look forward to the evening with pleasure,
instead of regarding it  and all the time when
the sun was absent from the sky  as little else
than a certain number of hours during which
he was torn away from the dear delight of
colour. Miss Keithley was well acquainted
with all that is best in literature and art, and
was able to regard the course of the world
with an intelligent interest. She and her quiet
aunt made him more in love than ever with a

life spent far from London and its distractions.
Here were magnificent sights always before his
eyes  he could work and paint, and live
entirely free from all sordid care, for his
expenses were almost nothing. It seemed
monstrous to think of ever going back to
London, with its stuccoed gentility and clamourous
demands for the outlay of money which
brings you neither comfort nor pleasure. Life
at St. Hilda's was altogether to his taste, and
none the less so because of the absence of
everything which reminded him of struggle, or
competition, or desire of name or place.

It was too cold for steady painting out of
doors, but by not sitting too long at one time he
could manage to get some study of detail on the
spot ; besides, every day brought with it some
new effect of light or colour, and the splendour
of the wintry sunsets was enough of itself to
keep him where he was. Miss Keithley also
was happier in her painting than ever she had
been before. Morrison had given her exactly
the help which she most needed, and his example,
and the sight of his work, stimulated her
to fresh effort.

About two o'clock one afternoon she was

on her way out, when at the door of the next
house she saw Mrs. Pickering, with angry little
eyes, and face warmed up by indignation to a
red that was by no means becoming. She was
scolding at the top of her voice, and loudly
proclaiming that deeds must follow words, unless
she was attended to at once. A meek-looking
woman with a baby in her arms, and two children
hanging on her skirts, was receiving the
outpourings of her wrath.

It's a sin and a shame that anyone who
slaves away as Mr. Merrison does should be
sewed in this way, with a nasty, mischievous,
good-for-nothing little abominable tyke like
your Tommy, and when he comes in I'll just
tell him what a set I have every day to get that
lad to do his duty ! If I had had my way, I'd
ha' made short work of him a very long time
ago  that I would, I can tell you ! '

Humbly the poor woman urged that it was
not her fault  that she did her best ; but with
no head (husband) to help her, and such a
heavy handful of bairns to strive and struggle
with, it was no wonder that a big boy like
Tommy took advantage of her sometimes.

I'd advantage him ! ' cried Mrs. Pickering ;
I'd give him a good sound warming ; and if
you like, I'll do it ! Just you send him here,
and, my word, if once I begin, if I don't make
him know that it's me that's at him, and not
you ! '

Oh, honey, no ! ' cried the or mother,
wiping her heated face with a ragged old shawl.
 Many's the time I've done all that myself, but
it's all to no use! He cares nothing for a
thrashing when once the bat (blow) is off him,
not he ! '

'What is the matter?' inquired Miss
Keithley

The matter's this. Miss Keithley : this good
woman has a lad whom Mr. Merrison hires for
to carry this things to him at Eastwick ; he has
half-a-crown a week, and nothing to do to earn
it but to walk himself along the cliffs every afternoon
when it is fine, to meet Mr. Merrison, and
give him the one bag and fetch back another
that Mr. Merrison took out with him after
breakfast  that's all ; and this afternoon my
young gentleman has chosen to play truant.'

Morrison was painting a waterfall a mile

beyond Eastwick in the morning, and, to lighten
Ms heavy burden, did not carry with him the
things he wanted in the afternoon, but had engaged
this boy of nine, who had, however, in
spite of Mrs. Pickering's strong language, only
once before failed him.

Where is the boy ? '

Gone off in a boat with some men to dig
for bait, and Mr. Merrison will have to do without
his sketching things. I am that vexed I
could just take and skin the boy ! '

Couldn't you go ? ' said Eose Keithley to
the boy's mother.

Me, ma'am ? I couldn't leave my bairns ;
they'd all do nothing but shout and cry till they
saw me back again with them. There's plenty
of boys '

There's no boys, nor men neither, to be had
that I'd trust with these things ! They'd set the
bag down on the church steps and begin to play
chuckle-stones ; besides, none of them would
know where to take it.'

What are the things? ' cried Eose Keithley.
Are they too heavy for me to carry ? They
can't be, if a boy could carry them.'

On this, Mrs. Pickering produced a sketching
bag, carefully padlocked, lest the young
gentleman should be seized with a sudden desire
to finger its contents. Inside were two half-imperial
drawing-boards ; they were heavy, but
not beyond Eose Keithley's strength. She knew
exactly where to find Morrison, for he had discussed
the point of view of his drawing with
her ; so, after charging the two women to be
sure to send the boy to bring back the sketching
things used in the morning, she set out, hoping
to arrive almost as soon as he would have done.
It was a lovely afternoon, warm for the time
of year, and everything looked doubly beautiful
for the soft veil of mist which was caused
by the frostiness of the air. The sun was
shining down on the old town, and wherever
it was strong enough to break away this silvery
veil, the intense red of the houses blazed forth.
Such splendour of colon: was almost inconceivable
; the houses glowed like richly-tinted
fruits ; golden browns and embers ran into
purply reds and glorified crimsons ; wreaths of
smoke from the chimneys mingled strangely
with the filmy mist, and the sunbeams caught

both and tinged them with delicate gold, and
they faded away in one place, disclosing new
wealth of colour, or hid what had the minute
before seemed the very eye of the picture, but
which, now that some new beauty had sprung
into existence to take its place, was never so
much as missed. There were one or two
fishing-boats in the river, quietly making their
way out to sea for the night. Their sails, of
every shade of velvety chocolate-brown, with
golden lights on them, were glorious to behold .
Every step of Eosamond Keithley's way brought
her some such sight as this ; but she did not
stop to watch or dwell on her enjoyment, but
walked briskly along the quay. It was delightful
to her to be of service to any fellow-artist,
most of all to William Morrison. The
lightness and brightness of the air, and the
loveliness of all she saw, intoxicated her. It
was market-day, and the quay was crowded.
The bridge, when she came to it, was open,
and over the heads of the black mass of men
and women before her she saw the rich brown
sails and taper masts of two boats which were
gliding gracefully through One of the chief

charms of St. Hilda's is the way in which the
sea life rims into the town life ; and so closely
are the two interwoven, that the mere summer
visitor finds himself hearing so much of
the toils and dangers of the towns-folk, that
when he sees the boats making for the harbour's
mouth his heart goes with them.

When once the bridge was shut, it was
thronged with one dense struggling mass of
carts, carriages, horses, and men, each and all
of which had been waiting till the thoroughfare
was restored. Eosamond Keithley and
her sketching-bag pressed on with the rest.
She hurried on as fast as she could, and
climbed up the two hundred steps which led to
the old church, tearing her eyes away from
everything which tempted her to linger. She
did not look at the church ; she scarcely
glanced at the serried ranks of grave-stones 
her eyes caught sight of some of the inscriptions
which were so familiar to her, and yet
always so touching  they nearly all told of a
tragedy. St. Hilda's men rarely die in their
beds  wrecked on the Marlborough Sands 
drowned by the upsetting of the life-boat with

eleven others  such were the records which
met her quick young glance. She began to
feel very sad, though for her the sun was still
shining. She passed the old green with its
cross, and the abbey, and then made her
way to the cliffs. A curious effect met her
here : the sunlight seemed pressed down very
close to the earth by heavy white mists, but
was much more intense for being less diffused.
She had never enjoyed a walk so much before.
She was now on the very cliffs which had so
short a while ago been her most bitter enemies,
shutting her in from all escape. The bag began
to feel rather heavy ; but it was Mr. Morrison's,
and she was doing him a slight service, and
this thought gave her such pleasure that she
almost danced along the fields, and at last she
came upon him unexpectedly, for he had
walked a short distance to meet the boy. He
was standing close by the edge of the cliff,
waiting and watching, for the sun was now
exactly as he wanted it, and he was longing
to get to work. He started when he saw
Miss Keithley with his bag on her arm:

My dear Miss Keithley ! you surely have

not carried that bag here? Your arm must
be nearly broken ! Oh, I am so sorry ! '

A strange fit of shyness came over Rosamond
Keithley, and she almost wished she had
not done it, or rather that she could have
hidden it from him ; but she soon recovered
herself, and said simply, ' It is nothing ; I was
coming out, anyhow. I am used to carrying-things
of this kind. Your boy had gone somewhere
else, and poor Mrs. Pickering was afraid
you would want your bag.'

I certainly wanted it, I was getting quite
anxious about it, and am most grateful to you
but it is so heavy  you can't think how
ashamed I am ! '

'Don't be ashamed  don't think about it
at all ! It has been such a pleasure to me !
If I carried your bag every day of my life, I
should not have done a hundredth part of
what you have done for me. But I shall do
more harm than good if I make you lose your
time in talking  good-bye  I ordered the
boy's mother to send him to carry back your
morning's things  what a quantity you have ! '

Yes, I have three or four sketches going ;

VOL. ir. X

but they are not all on heavy boards. The
fall with a lot of water, the fall with hardly
any, and a sunny one with the mill, and a dull
one  that's the way to be upsides with the
weather ! '

Good-bye,' again said Miss Keithley,
seeing that politeness was making him diffuse
in order to detain her.

ITo,' said Morrison, ' please don't go back
directly ; let me have the pleasure of escorting
you home  besides, I want you to have a cup
of tea.'

'Tea?'

Yes, tea. It will warm you, and you won't
mind seeing the sun set behind those cliffs.'

I should think not ! ' said she ; but that he
might feel free to go on with his work she
added, ' I think I will walk on to the next
point, and then come back to you.' The next
point was more than a mile off, and he knew
why she had gone, and was deeply grateful for
her thoughtfulness, for, great as was his regard
for her, he wanted to be alone for a while.

The sunset was a fine one, and when it was
over he found Miss Keithley by his side. She

had returned from her walk half an hour before,
but had not liked to draw near whilst he
was so busy. Somehow he divined this  what
a treasure of a girl she was !

Thanks to your great kindness,' said he,
I have had a very good afternoon. I should
have been wretchedly badly off without my
bag.'

Oh, have you ? You can't think how
pleased I am ! Did the boy come ? '

Yes ; and he has taken back everything
but the things you brought. I sent him to
order our tea.'

Morrison packed up his sketches, and took
her to a cottage hard by. ' Look at the edging
of that flower-border,' said he ; ' what an old-world
place St. Hilda's is ! ' A narrow flowerbed
ran parallel with the path to the cottage
door, and its border was composed of a series
of hard grey bones, which had once been the
backbone of a saurian. The cottager gave
them some tea, and then they began their walk
back to the town. What a change had come
over everything since the sun had set ! Nothing
of its glory remained but one dusky amber bar

X 2

across the westward sky. The short grass was
already becoming white and crisp under their
feet, and chill mists were creeping around them.
The abbey looked a mere ugly grey wreck, cold
and dull. No living creature was to be seen,
but some cows waiting for their summons to the
milking byre. They gazed on Morrison and
his companion with an air of calm, well-considered
approval. All might be grey and cold
around them, but these two felt unusually
hight-hearted and buoyant. Her presence was
infinitely soothing to him  she had never been
so happy in her life.

Have all artists as delightful a time of it as
you have, Mr. Morrison ? ' she asked. He
almost started, and said, ' I have been very
happy since I came here, thanks to you, I
think ; but in London I have vexations without
end, great and small.'

What a shame I Poets and painters ought
to be specially protected from all annoyances
by the State. But what can you have to disturb
you ? '

Oh ! noises, and fogs, and society, and,
worst of all, myself. I really think I shall

never go back  London is not the place for me
I am convinced of that.'

St. Hilda's is perfect ! We are going to
stay a year.'

Quite perfect ! It has everything a painter
ought to want  sky, sea and rocks, picturesque
boats and figures, and then there are splendid
moors within reach  I don't see what more a
man can desire, unless it be a run into Scotland
now and then to refresh himself with the sight
of a mountain.'

But you would be dull  you would want
society.'

I suppose I should,' said he, and thought
of Ohve ; but such a life would not be to her
taste  nor would any which he could give her.
How few women, indeed, would regard a prolonged
stay in St. Hilda's as anything but exile
from all that made existence attractive! He
glanced at the girl by his side, and thought that
for many a long day he had not seen anyone
whose tastes were so like his own.

How silent you are ! ' said she ; ' do tell
me what you are thinking.' He found it remarkably
difficult to reply to this, so plunged

boldly into fiction and said, ' Of the strange
way in which old things and new are blended
here. I think that is what makes the great
charm of the place. They utilise the last remaining
fragments of an antediluvian monster,
and even the very devils routed by St. Hilaire
turned into one of the main articles of commerce
of the modern town.'

Oh, the ammonites ; but I like them best
lying below the cliffs down which they are said
to have plunged in their flight. You like
the blending of old and new, but the old is
being rapidly hustled out of sight  don't let
us think of disagreeable things, though.'

No. Not on a happy day like this. What
a delightful walk we have had ! ' He was but
putting her own thought into words.

I am inclined to think that church one of
the most picturesque things in St. Hilda's,' said
Eose Keithley, and Morrison quite loved her
for the speech. No one but an artist could
have made it ; the very first aspiration of the
ordinary sea-side visitor is to see it pulled down.
It was indeed a most picturesque church, with
strange growths changing to the original fabric,

having been eked out and added to whenever
more space was required, and that, as it would
seem, by the happy thoughts and flashes of
inspiration of some adroit ship's carpenter.
Were twenty new sittings desirable, what more
natural than to seize on a huge fragment of
some wreck, and affix it, as it would appear,
almost wholesale. Were these new seats still
insufficient, then repeat the experiment, and soon
ad infinitum, the result being a building unrivalled
in quaintness and defiance of all ordinary
rules. Inside it looked more like the interior
of a ship than anything else ; and outside, as
seen from the path by the abbey, it looked like
a hen sitting on a large brood of chickens, the
chickens being represented by the odd corners
and gables which jutted out on all sides, peeping
out from the shelter of the main structure, like
so many of those tiny creatures from beneath
their mother's wings. Eose Keithley had
always thought she knew St. Hilda's well ; but
Morrison was able to show her things which she
had never seen before, and to tell stories and
legends which made the place a thousand-fold
more interesting to her. He showed her the

window where the pale ghost of the saint is said
to be sometimes seen, and the low-lying gratings
leading to the underground chambers where the
smugglers used to hide their stores, and the
graving-dock where the vessel was built that
carried Captain Cook round the world. Their
walk was a long one, but it seemed to come to
an end very quickly. He had thoroughly enjoyed
it. Arrived at her own door, Eose Keithleyput
out a pretty little hand and said, ' Good-bye, Mr.
Morrison : you will come in for a while this
evening?' There was something in her face
which for the moment riveted Morrison's eyes
to it. He felt strongly inclined to accept her
invitation, but controlled himself and said, ' Not
to-night, thank you : I must deny myself. I
have some work which must be done ; I will
come in tomorrow, if I may ? '

If you may ! ' cried she. ' Why, your
visits are one of the greatest pleasures we have.
You will come tomorrow ? '

Yes, without fail ! I shall look forward to
the time, you may be sure of that.'

She went in, and stooping over her aunt's
chair to kiss her, exclaimed, ' I have had a long

walk with Mr. Morrison, aunt ! Such a delightful
one ! Oh, I am so happy ! '

Mrs. Keithley looked happy too, and said,
I really think he is very fond of you, Rose !
I have thought so for at least a fortnight.'

Eosamond Keithley tiu-ned away with a
very red face. She did not quite know what
she herself thought about this, but she knew
what she wished to think.

As for Morrison, he went in and did not
work at all, unless thinking may be regarded as
work. He could not but see that in many
respects Eosamond Keithley was, of all women,
the one best suited to be his wife. Their
tastes were identical, the same things would
suffice to make both happy. She was charming
in every way, and good and noble also. He
could see no fault in her whatsoever ; and
though he did not love her, he had as he believed
made great progress towards that highly
desirable state in which Olive Brooke would
be altogether banished from his mind. There
was every temptation now to drift into a course
which would divide him from her for ever. He
had come to the conclusion that it would be

madness to think of her, for this if for no other
reason, that no success which he could possibly
win in the springtime of his youth would be
great enough to justify him in asking her to be
his wife. He could not  what landscape painter
ever could ?  take the world by storm as it was
possible for a great figure painter to do. All
that he himself had to give the world was
prized by too small a number of his fellow-creatures,
and cost too long a period of the
most humble apprenticeship, to admit of any
success worth having being obtained before
youth was over, and middle life well begun.
His loneliness and the want of near relations
had made him, in spite of elasticity of nature
and sanguine temperament, a little too much
inclined to forecast the future, and to accept asa
possibility that he might be obliged to seek
for happiness in his art alone ; and yet, with all
his love of natural beauty, he hated the thought
of living a life in which every noble thought and
aspiration was given in cultivated selfishness to
that object. Eosamond Keithley might have
been sent on purpose to save him ! What if he
allowed himself to love ? what if he could win

as a helpmate the good sweet girl from whom
he had so lately parted, with whom he could
live in the bonds of calm affection, who would
help him as only a quiet, loving woman can help,
and who would be perfectly content to pass her
days in retirement, seeing no one but himself?
For art's sake, for true happiness' sake, this was
assuredly the wiser course ; he could not goon
as he was doing now, with all his peace at
the mercy of a chance event to destroy it ; 
once plighted to another, he would never again
be distracted by the thought of Olive. The
evening wore on : yes, Eose Keithley was infinitely
better suited to him, and he half hoped
that she might be brought to care for him ; at
any rate, he was resolved to try if she could
not. The more he thought of this, the more
firm he became in his resolution. Nothing
should shake him now. He went to bed happy ;
he had chosen the pleasant ways of peace.

He rose next morning, feeling happier than
he had done for weeks, and steadfast in his
piu-pose of the evening before. He thoroughly
admired and respected Eosamond Keithley ; he
even began not to be so very certain that he

did not love her just a little. It was a mighty
relief to have come to this decision, and to
feel himself well rid of all that had disquieted
him so long. He swallowed a cup of tea, and
then went to the window to see if Eose Keithley
was to be seen, and if the drawing with which
she was busy was already set out in the bay
window. It was there ; so, too, were glass and
palette; but the industrious artist herself was
not. ' She is looking after her aunt's breakfast,'
thought he. ' There is not a trace of selfishness
in that girl's composition ! ' He began to long
for the evening, and to wonder if she would
ever care for him. As he stood by the window,
the postman toiled up the steps, and presently
a letter was brought to ' Mr. Merrison ' : a
London letter, re-directed by his servant, who
had sorry skill in penmanship. It had been
mis-sent, and had passed through many postoffices,
had been to St. Helter's and St. Helen's,
and had even made a struggle to get to St.
Kilda : but the common sense of North British
postmasters had been against the idea of seeking
anyone there at that time of the year, and at
last, after a delay of a whole fortnight, it had

reached Morrison at St. Hilda's. He turned it
round and round, and inspected the pithy comments
of each office which had repelled it. He
did not expect the inside to be more interesting
than the out, but he opened it, and found it was
from Mrs. Brooke.

Dear Mr. Morrison,' she said, ' We are at
home again, and trying to recommence our
Tuesday evenings. I hope you will give us the
pleasure of your company at the next, on February
the 6th, at 9.  Yours ever truly, Selina
Egerton Brooke.

Pes. I open my note to say that my niece,
Miss Olive Brooke, has just been here, and has
begged me to tell you that she hopes you will
accept my invitation, for there is something
which she particularly wishes to say to you.'

He read this, and then, with eyes which
would scarcely serve his turn, and mind confused
with excitement, tried to grasp on what
day he was invited. February the 6th. It was
February the 6th that very day, and he was 360
miles from London. Few trains left St. Disdain
winter, and the only one which would take
him to London in time went at 8.45. It was

now 8.40. He caught up his hat and coat,
called to Mrs. Pickering that he was going
away for a few days, ran off to the station,
arrived there just in time to take a ticket and
clamber into a carriage, and thus in five minutes
his dream of a happiness which was to be
enjoyed without Olive came to an abrupt end.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Wilt thou reach stars because they shine on thee ?

Two Gentlemen of Verona.

Well, really, Mr. Willoughby, I don't agree
with you: I never shall! To my mind, an
author who by one stroke of his pen can make
his heroine enchantingly beautiful is the most
churlish of creatures if he refuse to do it. Besides,
it is a great pity to have any ugliness in
the world that is not absolutely necessary.'

Such were the words which greeted Morrison's
ear, as, in obedience to the invitation received
that morning at St. Hilda's, he entered
Mrs. Brooke's drawing-room. That lady was the
speaker. She was standing in the midst of a
group of authors and critics, and they were all
giving their minds to the knotty point whether

VOL. III. B 

a heroine of commanding ugliness did not often
succeed in riveting the affections of a reader
even more firmly than a beauty. Morrison instantly
decided in favour of the beauty, and
looked round in search of Olive, but she was
not in sight. She was probably in the inner
room, but a crowd in the doorway prevented
his ascertaining that.

'Your new heroine, Mrs. Brooke, can't be
very attractive,' said Mr. Willoughby ; ' that
is, if we are to judge by the title of your
book.'

'Yes; really, what an odd one you have
chosen ! ' said another. ' It is advertised for
April, I see.'

This was the novel which Mrs. Brooke had
submitted to Olive, and then to the ' Quixotic
Magazine.' She had called it ' Cross-and-Fifty,'
by way of antithesis to ' Sweet-and-Twenty,' and,
as may be divined by this title, it still contained
a very exact portrait of Mrs. UUathorne. The
sacrifice demanded by Olive had been too
great for her aunt. The ' Quixotic Magazine
' had refused the novel as a serial, but
the publisher had taken a fancy to it, and had

offered a tolerably tempting sum, which Mrs.
Brooke had accepted with delight, to be allowed
to bring it out in the three volume form. Still,
though this was a success, she declared that she
should never really feel that she had succeeded,
until the day came when she had two publishers
sitting in the breakfast-room waiting to compete
for some MS. which she was finishing upstairs.

It is rather a repulsive title,' said she
thoughtfully. ' I am sorry, but it fits the book.'

'You have been photographing some disagreeable
old maid,' suggested a bystander.

No, much worse than that  a cross old
widow. Such an exquisitely cross one ! '

On this Lady Brooke, who had been feeling
languidly tolerant of all that went on around
her, became suddenly interested, and, though
not much of a reader, resolved to make herself
acquainted with the contents of her dear sister's
new book. She did not feel very loving to
Mrs. Brooke at present, and, if her pen had been
toying with Mrs. Ullathorne's special characteristics,
would not be averse to bringing the book
under that lady's notice.

Morrison pushed his way nearer to the

b2

second room. It was not so crowded as the
first. Olive was sitting on a sofa talking to Mr.
Ardrossan ; lier back was turned to Morrison.
What a pretty little head she had, and how
exquisitely beautiful were the curves which
sloped down from it to her throat and neck !
Her dress was a subdued white satin, in the
folds and shadows of which lurked varying
shades of faint green and grey, contrasting with
the rosy flush of interest in her face, and the
Httle ring of coral round her throat. She was
deeply interested in what Mr. Ardrossan was
saying to her, and had neither eyes nor ears for
anyone else. At least, so it seemed to Morrison,
and so in fact it was. The truth was, Mr.
Ardrossan had accidentally shown some acquaintance
with the east end of London, and Olive
found that he was in the habit of going there
constantly to look after one particular district
whose inhabitants he was trying to raise and
help. Ever since she had so unluckily failed to
meet the woman who had written to her, Olive
had been keenly on the alert to learn all that
she could of the neighbourhood of Bethnal
Green ; and though the remainder of the address
had for the moment entirely slipped from

lier mind, she still hoped it would return to her.
She was almost certain she should recognize the
name of the street if she did but hear it mentioned.
While Morrison was watching her with
such a sudden and unexpected thrill of anxiety,
she was saying to Mr. Ardrossan, ' You know
Bethnal Green  can you tell me the names of
a few of the streets ?  the little shabby streets,
I mean. I have a reason for asking this  perhaps
I had better tell you what it is. I had a
letter some time ago from some one there, a
poor person. She gave me her address, but I
only glanced at it. I was interested in the letter
itself, and thought I could read the address
afterwards, and then the letter was destroyed.
It was a letter which I ought to have answered.
I wish you could help me.'

I will, if I can, you may depend on that.
I will tell you the names of some streets, and if
that won't do I will get you a map. But would
you know the name you have forgotten, if you
heard it ? '

I think so ; it was an odd one.'

Perhaps it is in my district.'

I hope so, I am sure.' She felt implicit
trust in Mr. Ardrossan's readiness to help her.

Alexandra Street? Edward Street? Devonshire
Street ? '

No, I think it was something to eat. I
know it was.'

'Mulberry Street?'

That's it ! How strange that you should
know it ! '

It is in my district  at least part of it
is. Perhaps I can help you to find the
person.'

On this Olive suddenly grew alarmed, feared
she was confiding too much, and said, ' I don't
know that I ought to tell you more. What
kind of people live in Mulberry Street ? '

The poorest of the poor, and the lowest of
the low,' said he.

Do you go there often ? '

Twice a week, for a few hours each time.
My Scripture-reader would help you to find
anyone you want.'

Olive felt embarrassed. ' Thank you,' said
she. ' I will think it over for a few days, and
then perhaps ask your assistance. I am not
quite sure that I remember the woman's name.
I feel very much obliged to you.'

Lady Brooke was going away for a week.

i

SO Olive thought she herself might be at liberty
to go where she liked, and, having learnt the
name of the street, was resolved to do her best
to find the woman  whose name she almost
fancied was Deanham.

I will wait a few days, and then, if you
wish it, do all I can for you.'

'And please don't say anything to Lady
Brooke,' said Olive, blushing deeply at having
to make such a request. He bowed. This was
odd, but he could readily imagine that there
was little enough sympathy between Ohve and
her stepmother. Morrison saw the blush ;
his face grew darker and darker. The more he
looked at these two on the sofa, the more it
seemed to him that they were made for each
other. What right had he to thrust his own
unmeaning pretensions between Olive and one
who was in every way so infinitely more worthy
of her than himself? He was almost inclined
to retreat quietly, and go back next day to St.
Hilda's and his work, and try to make himself
believe that he had never been away. He was
afraid, though, that if he did he would have to
make-behave very much. What a perfect
couple these two would make !

As this thought was stamping itself in on
Morrison's mind, Mr. Ardrossan turned, saw his
dejected face, almost read his thoughts, and said,
I must not be so selfish as to monopolise you
entirely. Miss Brooke ; here is an old friend of
yours who would, I am sure, be glad to speak
to you.'

Olive looked round, saw Morrison, smiled,
bowed, and held out her hand. Somehow or
other, Mr. Ardrossan disappeared while she was
saying

How kind of you to come, Mr. Morrison !
It was almost a shame to bring you all the way
from Chaucer Street just to hear what I have to
say to you.'

I would come much farther than that, only
to get a glimpse of you, let alone a word ; indeed,
I have come much farther. When your
aunt's letter reached me this morning  by-the-by,
I ought to tell you that it had been missent,
and had wandered about for nearly a
fortnight  I was three hundred and sixty miles
off.'

Eeally ! ' said Olive ; ' but you should not
have come so far. What made me want to see

you is that I have only just learnt from Mr.
Ardrossan what a terrible walk you took for us
when we were snowed up at Blair Angus.
What ungrateful people you must have thought
us ! Neither my mother  neither Lady Brooke,
I mean  nor I had any idea how much we
owed to you. We were told that some of the
gentlemen passengers had walked along the
line and brought help, and we felt very grateful
to them ; but we never knew that you were the
one to do everything, that you went alone, and
hazarded your life at every step. Think of your
doing that, and never even being thanked ! '

Oh, indeed, I was thanked, and far more
than I deserved. I did nothing more than anyone
else would have done. Besides, you did
thank me in your letter  you '

That was only for giving me tea, and bringing
Pearson, and many other kindnesses,' cried
Olive ; ' I could not thank you for getting us
away, or running such great risks for us, for
Mr. Ardrossan only told me about it a fortnight
ago ; I have been most anxious to do it ever
since  most uncomfortable, too, till I could doit.
I now thank you most sincerely  I am so

glad that you were the one who did it all. It is
just like a novel, isn't it? '

I can't bear to look back on that night
said Morrison ; ' I behaved so shamefully ! '

Now, pray do not say another word about
that,' cried Olive ; ' I told you the exact truth
in my note. I assure you you did not say one
word then that I have not said to myself a
hundred times. London and London life are
all very well, but you don't know how often
I wish I could go back to those happy old days
at Austerfield ! How simple life was there, and
how perfectly delightful ! Won't you sit down,
Mr. Morrison ?  do sit down.' And as Olive
spoke, she moved her dress a little out of his
way so as to make room for him by her side.
There was room enough already, but the pretty
gesture of invitation was eminently flattering to
the bewildered young gentleman who stood so
near her. He hesitated a moment, but only
because he was gazing at her and thinking that
he had never yet seen her look so beautiful.
He sat down by her side, half intoxicated by his
position, and by the words which she had just
uttered.

It was indeed delightful said he, after a
brief pause ; ' I know I have never been half so

happy since ' Unless it be now, was his

next thought, but he dared not express it.

And such little things made us happy ! '
she continued. ' Do you remember how pleased
we were one morning when we were in the
shrubbery, and we found a bird's egg lying on
the leaf of a hollyhock ? It was a wren's, and
it shone with a pink light and was covered with
rosy spots  but how absurd I am to expect you
to recollect such silly things ! '

I remember everything ! ' said he.

On this she blushed deeply, and said, ' We
were only children ! '

She intended this as an apology for the past,
but he said, ' What have we gained by growing
up ? Not much, I fancy. It is hardly to be
counted as a gain that we are so much more
difficult to amuse.'

I am sure it is not. But we were easily
pleased then ! If we happened to find an orchis
an inch or two longer than any we had seen
before, it was quite enough to put us in high
spirits for the day.'

Do you ever feel the same happiness now,
when you are in the country ? ' said he. ' No
doubt you do  I know I do ; but then unfortunately,
or perhaps fortunately, my work and my
pleasure have so mixed themselves up together
now, that I can't enjoy nature as one enjoys a
poem or a picture  I am always finding myself
thinking how I am to contrive to give even a
faint hint of the beauty I see.'

But what beautiful pictures you do paint,
Mr. Morrison ! I know they are good because
they have exactly the same effect on me that
reading a very fine poem or a bit of Mr. Euskin's
writing has. I make all kinds of grave resolutions,
and am so anxious to act up to a high
standard.'

Morrison looked much pleased ; but he must
indeed have been difficult to please if such
words as these, from such a girl as Olive, did
not have that effect. ' My pictures are not
really good,' said he ; ' you must not fancy that
they are ; but if work will make them so, they
shall be. If ever I did succeed in painting
pictures which the world thought good,' said
he hurriedly, and very nervously too  for he

saw a movement amongst the crowd which
seemed to denote that his tete-astute must soon
be interrupted  ' if ever this happened  and I
dared to presume on our old acquaintance, and
came to you then, and asked you to renew our
happy old life, would there be any chance at
all of your listening to me ? '

But I don't think I quite understand,' said
Olive, blushing nevertheless, and looking round
in great alarm to see if any of the people in the
room, who were now pressing so much nearer
to them, were near enough to hear what was
passing.

In those days, if you remember, we lived
for each other  our happiness consisted in being
together. We were only children, I know, and
things have changed  changed terribly ; but
there is one thing in which I am not changed
I never was happy without you then, and
shall never be happy without you now. I
know I ought to keep all these feelings to
myself  that a man in my position has no right
to speak thus to you  but do answer one question
: supposing I could win a name for myself,
and thus lessen the difference between us, do

you think you could ever care for me ?  would
you share my life, I mean ?  I am afraid it is
too presumptuous even to think of such a
thing ! ' he added, for he could not but see how
embarrassed she was.

Oh, no ; not presumptuous at all  don't
use such dreadful words ! On the contrary,
you do me a great honour, but '

'but"! don't say "but," dear Olive I
forgive my calling you so. I love you with all
my heart ; I would do anything to win you.'

Olive shook her head. 'You must not
think of this,' said she.

Not think of this ! ' he said, taking courage ;
I shall think of it as long as I Hve. My love
for you will last from the beginning to the end.'

It is impossible,' she said.

Just answer one thing,' said he : 'do you
think it is quite impossible for you ever to feel
for me as you used to do ? That's what I want
so to know. If you say yes, I must try to bear
it ; but if you think there is the least chance, I
want to ask you to wait a year or two for me
to give me time to do something, I mean.
You don't know how I would work ! But I

am in siicli dread of all kinds of things happening
 of losing you before I have time to do
anything.'

If I ask you never to speak on this subject
again,' said Olive faintly, ' please do not think
that it is because I feel that there is this difference
between us of which you speak  I do not
admit that there is  I consider that anyone
who paints as you do has a rank far above any
that the world can give  you honore by
thinking of me at all, but I must not let you do
so  my mind is full of something else. I have
no heart to give  I can love no one, think of
no one, until the thing which fills my mind is
settled.'

Morrison was quite bewildered. She looked
so strange while she spoke, and seemed so in
earnest. Was she engaged to some one else, or
tortured by religious doubts, or on the point of
turning Woman Catholic ? What could it be ?
But you won't always feel in this way,' said
he. ' Let me speak to you again some other
time. Let me go away now with a little hope,
and come back in  say, a year's time.'

Oh, no ! ' cried Olive ; ' it would be wrong

if I let you do that. I can give you no hope
whatever.'

You know you can never like me as you
used to do ? '

I am afraid not. I shall always feel that
you stand in a different relation to me from
every one else  always have the greatest regard
for you, and desire to be good friends with you
you must not ask for anything more.'

He tried to read her face  it showed the
fixedness of a steady purpose ; he looked at the
people in the doorway  they were still standing
in a solid mass, and appeared willing to leave
him still more time to urge his suit ; but all the
people in the room with them showed symptoms
of a desire to change their places, and one or
two had come dangerously near. He saw this,
but was resolved to use to the uttermost this
one chance, and said in a low voice, ' Do not
speak so very decidedly. Say I may keep justa
little hope, and may come back in a year or
so  I am not like a stranger, you know. I
have felt as I do now ever since we parted as
children.'

Do not ask me to do this,' said she once
more.

At all events, say that you wish me well

That needs no saying ! ' she replied kindly.
I do, and always shall wish that. Let us
always be friends, Mr. Morrison.'

He thanked her for this permission to call her
friend, but he almost felt inclined to go somewhere
where he would never see her again. It seemed
to him that this would be infinitely preferable
to meeting her occasionally as a mere friendly
stranger. The break which had occurred in
their conversation was observed  a gentleman
who had been hovering about for some time,
for the chance of a few words from Miss Brooke,
now came and spoke to her, and Morrison went
and joined the black-coated crowd which had
been standing in the doorway so long. The
new-comer dropped unbidden into Morrison's
place  the waves of society closed in ; Morrison
did not know how he got into the larger room
he was in no state to be conscious of pain or
discomfort from without  when there he found
himself side by side with Mr. Ardrossan.

Never dare to say that I have not behaved
nobly to you to-night ! ' said that gentleman ;
I gave you my place without a murmur.'

VOL. III. c

You did ; it was very kind of you ; but
don't let me drive you away from Miss Brooke
again. You and she get on a thousand times
better than she and I could ever do. Don't let
me keep you from her. Good-night ; I am
going.'

Mr. Ardrossan's eyes followed his young
friend with some curiosity  show much, or how
little, did he mean ?

CHAPTER XXXII.

I like not the humour of lying.  Merry Wives of Windsor.

I am a simple woman, much too weak
To oppose your cunning.  Henry VIII.

Haxisah DEAimAM, Mulberry Street, Bethnal
Green.  All that night of Mrs. Brooke's party,
these names were never absent from Olive's
thoughts. Even though she had just had an
offer of marriage, she still found her mind
recurring to them, and to the work which lay
before her next day. As soon as she had the
comfort of seeing the cab drive away with
Lady Brooke to Euston Station, she meant to
lose no time in setting out for Bethnal Green.
She had told Morrison that she could think of
no subject but one, and she had told him the
exact truth  every wish of her heart was
summed up in the one burning desire to establish
her mother's innocence, and, that done, toc
2

seek her out in her hidden retreat, gladden her
heart by the tidings, and then to spend her own
life in trying to make her mother's last years
happy. No love should ever come to disturb
that which she meant to give to the poor
mother from whom she had been so long and
so cruelly divided. She perfectly well remembered
the unhappy, wasted-looking woman, with
a face more noble and beautiful than any picture,
who, not a year before, had come to the
outside of Mrs. Ullathorne's house and had
gazed in on her through the window, with
eyes full of love and pain. That was her
mother, her own dear mother ; and even if she
were mad  even if she were shut up in Bedlam ;
itself  Ohve would rather stay there with her,
if by so doing she could lessen her sufferings,
than remain where she was with the base
woman who had supplanted her.

Morning came. Olive was down first, but
that was because she could not sleep. It would
not have been easy to find anything which
would prevent Lady Brooke from sleeping, and
sleeping well. She came downstairs as usual,
looking happy and peaceful, and thoroughly

refreshed by the night's calm rest. She noiselessly
entered the breakfast room, and made for
her seat and her letters. Olive busied herself
with the teapot.

My dear, here is a letter from your Aunt
UUathorne. She is coming back next week,'
said Lady Brooke in a tone which betokened
some slight vexation.

Indeed ! ' said Olive, who did not care
what happened, so long as it was nothing which
kept her away from Bethnal Green.

Yes, next week ; so we shall have to be
ready for her.'

Is it certain ? '

Yes ; she seems to have overcome her
desire to stay in the cemetery at Florence, though
it does seem to have been very strong : so I
suppose we may consider her return certain.'

I don't understand,' said Ohve, who might
perhaps not have been so stupid if she had been
listening more carefully.

She describes the cemetery  she says it is
lovely, and commands a most splendid view of
the town. She dwells on the nice people who
are buried in it. She finishes by saying that

she would perhaps hardly have liked to be interred
so very far from home ; but I am sure,
poor dear, if she felt that it was for her happiness
to join them, it is a thousand pities she did
not do so. Well ; we shall have to make some
preparation for her.'

Can't I do what is wanted ? ' said Olive
eagerly, in great fear that Lady Brooke might
give up her journey.

Of course you can. See that all the better
china is put back in her cabinets and cupboards,
and be sure to leave the doors wide open, tolet
it get thoroughly dusty, and then she will
never know that we have used it. Do it carefully
 she is very cunning. I hate cunning
people, Olive ! '

So do I ! ' cried Ohve, with extreme fervour.

Lady Brooke continued : ' Put the better
things of all kinds away, just as she left them.
You know what to do. I shall be back in four
days  I did intend to stay a week, but four
days will do, or even three.' And then she let
her eyes stray over her step-daughter's face, and
Olive could not but notice that there was a
strange gleam of satisfaction in them which

seemed to betoken that this journey to Liverpool
was one which boded her no good.

What a nuisance ! ' cried Lady Brooke,
returning to the perusal of Mrs. Ullathorne's
letter ; ' I did not notice this bit  " I forgot
when I left home to ask you to be very attentive
to Dr. and Mrs. UUathorne ; but I am sure your
kind heart would lead you to show them every
civility in your power without any prompting
from me." I am afraid that my own kind heart
has led me to leave them in their own home. I
suppose we ought to have had them, but we
have not  will Mrs. UUathorne be very angry ? '
I don't know  she can be angry.'
Well, you have not much to do, Olive ;
suppose you were to go in a cab with Pearson
and make a call on them  you could do that
while I am away. Go, and be very civil to
them, and explain that nothing but ill-health
has prevented our seeing a great deal of them.
You might like to go to Bethnal Green ? That's
where they live, isn't it ? ' And as she said this,
Lady Brooke, though she appeared to speak
carelessly, was attentively studying Olive's face
with eyes not altogether free from pleasure.

I don't know  I '  stammered Olive, and
then she took courage and said, ' Do you wish
me to go ? '

'No, I can't say I do. Please yourself
about it, dear  I am completely indifferent as
to whether you go or not I '

Ohve's heart sank. Was Lady Brooke
stating a fact, or making a chance speech ? It
sounded one of ill-omen.

Make Pearson get all our things together
continued the elder lady. ' When I come back,
I will see about some lodgings for the rest of
the time I am here.'

Olive looked up in surprise.

Yes ; I shall not stay long in England now
perhaps a few weeks longer  perhaps not so
long.*

Lady Brooke had not been very explicit with
regard to her journey to Liverpool. She had
told Olive that she was going to see a friend off
to America, but had left the name and all else
in obscurity. It must, however, be some one in
whom Lady Brooke felt great interest, for she
was not in the habit of showing signs of affection
which cost so much trouble as this
journey would give her.

The cab came at eleven ; and then, dressed
in warm velvets and furs, with soft shawls and
rugs, and book and paper-knife, and every comfort
necessary to her comfort-loving nature, she
drove away.

Lor ! ' ejaculated Pearson when she saw
the last of her; ' but this do surprise me ! Lady
Brooke has never once, since I've been with
her, left me behind. She always says she can't
get along without me nohow ; and it's true, she
can't ! Well, I do wonder at her going without
me now  so private-like ! '

Olive heard this, and it made her feel unhappy
; a strange feeling of dismay came over
her. She had thought that, when once her
stepmother Alas gone, she herself would be
quite free to go where she liked  now it seemed
to her that it would be quite useless to attempt
to go to Bethnal Green, for Lady Brooke would
be watching every avenue of approach to the
district, and, no matter how she went, would
pounce upon her at once, and straightway put
all her plans and projects to abject confusion.
She dressed herself plainly. With ' Bradshaw '
in hand as her credentials, she left Kensington
Square. None of the servants seemed to remark

her departure. Pearson, whom she met on the
stairs, had evidently not been ordered to insist
upon accompanying her.

Shall you be in at luncheon, Miss Brooke ? '
said the maid ; but when Ove said she thought
not, Pearson had no amendment to propose.
Olive felt that she was left to do what she
liked. She looked back to see if she was
watched or followed ; she saw that she was not.
First return. Mansion House,' she said boldly,
proud of her knowledge, for she had never yet
travelled by the Metropolitan Eailway; but
when she got to the Mansion House she was a
very long way from her journey's end, and as
she drove in a rattling cab through the dreary
streets, she felt them to be interminable. ' They
talk of the poverty and distress of the people at
the East End,' thought she, ' but how can they
ever eat up all the food in these shops ? ' Provision
shops stared her in the face every moment,
and street succeeded street, and still she
was far from her goal. ' Put me down at
Mulberry Street, Bethnal Green. Ask your
way, or do you know it?' said she to the
driver.

No. I can't say as how I do know it. It's
not a part we're often asked to come to,' said
he. ' What number, Miss ? '

I have forgotten the number. Put me
down in the street  that will do.'

It was two o'clock when the cabman departed,
full of delight with her want of knowledge
of cab-fares. Mulberry Street ! She had
found it ! And now she had an undefined feeling
that Providence would vouchsafe some
guidance to her  would give her some clue to
the house. She held her ' Bradshaw ' well insight,
and walked from one end of the street to
the other, waiting for the mysterious prompting,
which she was firmly resolved not to disregard.
It was a long street, cut in half by a great dismal
main thoroughfare. Olive crossed this, and
walked to the very end, but had no feeling
about any of the houses except thankfulness
that she had not to live in any of them, and, as
she walked back, her way was illumined by
no heaven-sent intuition. She had carefully
studied the names on all the house-doors and
shops, but that of Dean ham did not meet her
eyes. When she had traversed both sides of

the street, lie ]began to work in a new way.
She ran after a postman whom she saw, and
asked him if he knew the name. He almost
thought he had noticed it on some of his letters,
but coukl make no statement more precise.
The policemen were ignorant  the provision
shops the same ; so then she thought she would
inquire from door to door. It was a trying
thing for a girl like Olive, who had scarcely
ever been out alone even in the West End,
suddenly to find herself exposed to all the
incivilities of busy folks at the East. She came
to a house which seemed to be inhabited by a
number of lodgers  a woman in one of the
downstairs-rooms tried to help her. ' Name of
Deanham wanted, do you say, Miss ? ' said she.

There's no demons here, it is to be hoped,'
cried a tailor, who was sitting on a table,
working as if life depended on every stitch that
he put in.

Deanham ! Deanham ! ' cried Olive, most
eagerly, but all in vain.

The relieving officer might know,' said the
woman, ' or the parish doctor.'

I'll try them if no other way succeeds.

Will you make some inquiries for me? I
may come in again on my way back.' The
woman promised, and so did an amiable green-grocer
who had drawn near.

Deanham, did you say, Miss ? ' said a tall,
lanky, ill-favoured youth in another doorway,
and he and his mother and two unpleasant-looking
sisters came to talk, but Olive soon
found that they knew nothing. Patiently she
once more went from the bottom of the street
to the top, lingering here, questioning there,
but hearing nothing anywhere. She was weary
and terribly disappointed  her feet ached, and
she was faint with hunger. It was now nearly
five, and she had not eaten anvthino- since

7 t/ CI

early morning. She saw a shop which was
clean enough to inspire partial confidence, and
went to buy herself some biscuits. While
eating, she used her opportunity and asked the
shopkeeper some questions  but he, too, had
nothing to tell her.

How much do I owe you ? ' said she, in
haste to go ; but when she put her hand into
her pocket for her purse, it was gone  some of
the more urbane part of the population who

had listened to her inquiries with politeness,
had also relieved her of the trouble of carrying
such a weight. She was aghast, and cried,
My purse has been stolen ! ' and she looked so
unhappy that the man believed her.

Was there much in it ? ' he asked.

'Some silver  I don't exactly know how
much ; ' and then she remembered that Lady
Brooke had given her a five-pound note to pay
a bill, and that was gone ; and, worse than all,
her return ticket was gone too !

What shall I do ? ' cried she.

So far as the biscuits are concerned, Miss
you have only eaten one, and you are welcome
to it,' said he, and thought he had performed
rather more than the whole duty of
man.

But my ticket  what shall I do ? '

He put the lid on the biscuit-tin, and then
set it rather noisily in its place on the shelf.
She was not to have the run of that tin any
longer. Olive saw that he would not willingly
lend her money to buy a new ticket, and did
not choose to expose herself to a refusal.
'Give me your name and address,' said she,

and I will pay for my biscuit by letter. I will
walk home, I think.' Murmuring something
about, ' Very sorry, I'm sure, but really there
are so many impostors about,' he let her go.
She set her face westward, and was just going
to sink into complete despair, when she remembered
that she was undergoing this for her
mother's sake, and was reconciled at once, and
strong to suffer ; and then she remembered
that she had no need to walk home  she
could take a cab, and pay the man at the
journey's end  only, cabs were scarce in Mulberry
Street. Feeling now more at ease about
her return home, she thought she might venture
to make a few more inquiries for Mrs.
Deanham, and did so, but with no better
result ; and at last she thought she must delay
no longer. It was half-past five, and as yet
she had not seen a single cab. There was
nothing for it but to urge her poor tired feet to
fresh exertion. Suddenly, about a hundred
yards in front of her, she saw a gentleman  he
came quickly out of one of the poorest houses
in Mulberry Street. She seemed to know his
figure, and looked again with eager hope  he

half turned, and lie saw that it was Mr.
Ardrossan.

She tried to overtake him ; but he was
walking so quickly that, do what she might,
she could not lessen the distance between them.
Her very desire to stop him seemed to paralyse
her power of movement  she could neither run
nor call. A carriage drove into the street  it
was his  and in another moment he would
have been gone, had she not raised her hand asa
signal to the coachman, and he waited till she
came up. Mr. Ardrossan put his head out of
the carriage to see why he did not drive on,
and to his amazement saw Olive, who, too
much out of breath to speak, was standing in
distress and confusion on the pavement near
him. She blushed when she saw how surprised
he was, and exclaimed, ' Oh, how thankful I am
that I have met you ! ' and then a slight
twitching of the muscles of her mouth showed
that her excitement was inclined to take the
form of tears.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

Who shall account for the love that is lost ?  Joaquin Miller.

He was out of the carriage in a moment, and
by her side. 'Dear Miss Brooke said he,
what can I do for you ? Only tell me, and
it shall be done.'

Olive began to speak, but was ashamed to
say, ' Lend me a shilling to buy another ticket,'
and hesitated. ' I have had such bad adventures,'
said she at length ; ' I will not keep you
standing till I tell you all, but the worst is that
my purse has been stolen from me, and my
railway ticket is in it, and now  don't laugh at
me  I am here in this dreadful place, and can't
get home ! I have been trying to find a cab, but
cabs don't seem to come here.'

But I hope you will allow me to take you
home,' said he. ' Please do ; I am rewarded
for coming here to-day, when I was half in-vol.

III. D

lined to go somewhere else, by having this
chance of being useful to you

If you will kindly take me as far as a cabstand
 that would be best  I could go back to
Kensington in a cab  money does not matter
when you are going home.'

Oh, no ; I wish you would let me take you
the whole distance. It would be such a pleasure !
I don't often have a talk with you.'

Olive made no further opposition ; she
thought the simplest and best course was gratefully
to accept his kind offer. He made her
get into the carriage. She dropped into her
place like one who was thoroughly weary. She
looked pale, and he could see that she was
utterly dispirited. ' You have been trying to
find your Bethnal Green correspondent, and
have tired yourself to death,' said he.

Yes,' replied Ohve ; but she felt not a little
embarrassed.

Why not let me help you ? '

Indeed, I would in a moment  I am most
anxious to do so ; but it is something I do so
want to keep secret,' she said faintly.

If you dare trust me with so much of your

secret as is necessary to enable me to be of some
assistance to you,' said he, ' I promise you faithfully
to keep all that you tell me secret, and to
inquire no further  but don't let me persuade
you against your better judgment.'

It is such a strange secret  one so difficult
to talk about,' pleaded poor Olive. How could
she speak to anyone of her mother, and of the
terrible thing that was said of her !

Then, do not distress yourself,' said he.

But you will think it so strange of me to
refuse.'

Nearly everyone living has some secret
which he longs to keep hidden from all. I may
ask you one thing, though  have you been
successful in your search ? '

Two bright tears swam in Olive's eyes  she
looked down to hide them, and could only
answer by a hopeless shake of the head.

Well, dear Miss Brooke, remember that, if
you like to entrust me with the name of the
person whom you wish to find, my Scripture-reader
shall visit every house in Mulberry
Street, and it is impossible for him to fail. He
is a poor man himself, and knows all the people

D 2

in the place quite intimately. He would have
a far better chance of success than anyone
else.'

Thank you,' said Olive, who instinctively felt
that her new friend was one in whom absolute
reliance might be placed ; ' the woman's name
is Deanham  Hannah Deanham. She wrote tome
from Mulberry Street, as you know ; but I
have been to every house to-day, and no one
can tell me anything about her. She can't live
there ! '

In two days' time, at the latest, you shall
hear whether she is to be found or not, and no
one shall know that you are interested in the
search. The inquiry shall be made in my name,
and I am constantly making inquiries of this
kind.'

Thank you,' again said Olive. Then she
added impetuously, ' Mr. Ardrossan, don't think
I don't trust you  I really should like to tell
you all  I want help terribly, and know you
would help me more kindly than anyone else
would, except my Uncle Eichard, and I am not
allowed to talk to him.'

She saw Mr. Ardrossan's look of surprise,

and added, ' My aunt does not like me to talk
to him of this  he is too ill to be worried about
painful things.'

Mr. Ardrossan's face showed so evident a
desire to help, and yet such a strong determination
not to embarrass Olive by pressing his
services upon her, that she could not but say,
'I will tell you all I can; you will think it
strange of me to change my mind, but it seems
so mean only to tell you half a secret when you
are so kind, and yet I can't tell you quite all.'
He smiled, and his smile was a very pleasant
one. She began ; ' Some one related to me was
accused of a crime, and I believe falsely accused.
I know nothing of the story  my aunt in
Harley Street would not tell it to me  and I
don't want to know it until I can prove it to be
false ; but for many reasons I am certain that
the accused person was innocent. I had thought
so for some time before I received that letter
from this Hannah Deanham, asking me to meet
her. She said, if I would meet her, she would
put me in possession of every proof of innocence
that I could wish. Isn't it hard that everything
has turned out so badly ? *

Mr. Ardrossan was sufficiently acquainted
with Olive's family history to be quite aware
what she referred to. He was silent for a
moment, and then he said, ' But you did meet
her?'

'No. I am not my own mistress. She
made two appointments with me, and I sometimes
think that I was very cleverly prevented
from keeping either  now you see how important
it is to find her.'

She shall be found,' he said earnestly.
But how did you happen to destroy her letter
with the proper address ? That was most unfortunate
I '

It was. I was obliged to destroy it, and
in a moment, or it would have been seen ; I
had not even time to look at it. Now I have
told you as much as I ought to tell you at
present, but I must ask you on no account tolet
anyone know that I have spoken to
you of this  especially not Lady Brooke.'

'No one shall know. But how am I to
tell you the result of the inquiries I am about
to make  '

Write a line to me to Kensington Square.'

He nodded, and said, ' Now forget about
this  it is not good to dwell on painful subjects
 let us talk about our friend Morrison
Olive blushed ; almost for the first time
that day she remembered what had happened
the night before.

He has been at St. Hilda's,' continued Mr.
Ardrossan, looking at her pretty face with
considerable uneasiness because of its change
of colour. ' Did he tell you if he had done
anything there ? '

No ; he did not.'

Did he say whether he was going back ? '

'No. I do not know what he is going to do.'

Mr. Ardrossan continued to talk of Morrison
 he particularly wished to know whether,
a the saying goes, there was anything between
Ohve and his friend, or not. He piqued himself
on being able to discover this by infallible
signs after a very short conversation, and
thought he did discover that there was nothing.
Why did this discovery give him so much
pleasure?  why did Olive's recent confidence
make him so proud and happy ?

He began to talk of other things. Olive

listened with delight, and though the way was
long and the streets were most monotonously
dull, she thought they got into a part of the
town that was familiar to her much more
quickly than she had anticipated. She was
happy about her mother, for now she felt
confident that she should establish her innocence.
Mr. Ardrossan, who was strong and
wise and practical, had promised to help her,
and no one living could give such effectual
help as he. She was perfectly satisfied to
leave the matter in his hands, and for the first
time for many weeks was able to feel interest
in other things. He had always admired her,
but to-day she was unusually beautiful. More
than once lately he had seen her looking careworn
and ill ; never had he seen her more
depressed than when she entered his carriage.
Now he had the delight of being able to tell
himself that this return to ease, and even
gaiety, dated from the time when he had
promised to devote himself to the task of
helping her. He was perfectly right : she had
not enjoyed anything for months as she was enjoying
this conversation; her eyes were bright,

and gradually a faint rosy flush of pleasure
overspread her face. ' Ah, ]mr. Ardrossan ! '
she exclaimed when her long drive was all
but over, * you have made me forget all my
troubles. I have never once thought of them
since you promised to help me.'

He looked delighted, and began to thank
her for what she had said ; but soon he checked
himself  there was such a danger of saying
a little more than he ought. Against his
will, his speech turned into a rather cold assurance
of the gratification it gave him to be
of any service to her. And, that said, he
became very silent, and thought with bitter
pain of the forty-and-five years which had
already been lived by him, and which now
seemed to thrust themselves so suddenly into
such disagreeable prominence, and do their
wretched utmost to make him feel that he
belonged to an entirely different generation
from the bright girl by his side. ' She is
thinking me old enough to be her father,'
said he to himself ; ' that's why she speaks tome
with such unguarded frankness. She
would not tell a young fellow like Morrison

that lie had made her forget all her troubles.
She looks on me as she looks on her uncle in
Harley Street; but with this in my favour,
that she may talk to me  that it won't hurt
me. Poor child ! words like those of hers
do hurt men sometimes, even though they have
reached a mature age. I am supposed to have
got beyond the age of sentiment.' Presently
he remembered that he ought not to be so
silent, and said, ' If we have the good fortune
to find Hannah Deanham, I should like you
to allow me to do all that is done to conduct
the business further. Bethnal Green is a long
way ojQT, and not a very nice place for a young
lady like you ; besides, people of her class
are sometimes rather difficult to deal with.*
He carefully toned down his speech to mere
benevolent friendliness  he wished to place
this matter on a purely business-like footing.
Seeing that she was just a little slow in answering,
he added, ' If you can trust me to do this,

I will act for you as if you were my own '

he hesitated, the sacrifice of saying ' daughter '
was too gigantic for him  he made the attempt,
but it ended in his using the word ' sister.'

'I do trust you most thoroughly,' said
Olive, looking in his handsome face, as she
spoke, with such a pretty expression of implicit
reliance that he felt nearly beside himself ; ' and
I am so thankful to you too. I have been very
unhappy about this for a long time  ever since
I first knew about it ; and I am so entirely
without the comfort of having one single person
to whom I can speak. You don't know how
strange it is to go about with something like
this, which is very important and very dreadful
to think about, filling your mind, and you notable
to speak of it to anyone.'

'Dear Miss Brooke,' said he, 'if you will
pay me the great compliment of trusting me, I
will do my best to be worthy of confidence. If
there is anything you want done, will you employ
me ? '

Indeed I will,' replied Olive earnestly.
Thank you most heartily for allowing me todo
so. Now that I have you to advise me I
feel quite happy ; for, even if I fail, I shall
know that everything has been done that could
be done.'

This was all that could be desired ; but how

rarely does happiness come in a perfect form !
In a minute or two more she was assuring
him that having him to talk to was quite as
good as having her Uncle Eichard !

Forty-five,' thought he, ' that is my age ;
and yet, if she would overlook the disparity
between us, I am absolutely certain that I could
make her a thousand times happier than any
young fellow going  but then she would have
to love me first. I wonder whether such a
thing is possible ? '

By the last post on the night following,
Olive received a letter from Mr. Ardrossan to
say that he and his Scripture-reader had devoted
the whole of that day to the inquiry after
Hannah Deanham, and that they had made a
thorough search in every house in Mulberry
Street and near it, but no such person was
there, or had been there, for many months.
He promised to bear the subject in mind, and
to continue his investigations in the neighbourhood
; but in the meantime he advised Olive
not to think too much of the letter she had
received  such letters were frequently written
merely with the object of extracting money

from those to whom they were sent, and were
totally false and untrustworthy. This might be
one of that kind. His letter was extremely
kind ; but Olive felt a weight of pain fall on her
as she read it  she had not till then realised
how dose to her heart lay the desire to clear
her mother's reputation. How could she ever
bear the anguish of living with this dark stain
on her life ? She read Mr. Ardrossan's letter
once or twice. It was clear that he thought
Hannah Deanham's letter was the production
of a mercenary impostor  how terrible it would
be if she herself were at length compelled to
believe the same thing ! The shock this letter
gave her was most unexpected and bitter  she
had been buoyed up all day with hope  she
had been so certain that Mr. Ardrossan would
be successful.

And while Olive was sitting in a dark corner
in Mrs. Ullathorne's drawing-room, far too
miserable to look up or turn to the light, Lady
Brooke was lying back in the most comfortable
chair that was to be found in the best room of
the best hotel in Liverpool. She had drawn it
close to a bright fire, had made the waiter

bring her a small table on wliicli were set the
wax candles which would soon play such an
appreciable part in her bill ; beside these were
two yellow-backed French novels, a box of
chocolate, and a plate with some cut lemons 
she had read somewhere that lemons prolonged
life, and to her life was sweet. To her the
world was a perfect one ; and life, so long as
she could manipulate it a little, perfect also.
Who could have been happier than she, as,
loosely clad in a warm fur-lined dressing-gown,
with her feet in fur-lined slippers, she lay back
basking in the consciousness of having just conducted
an extremely difficult and important
piece of business to a fortunate and thoroughly
successful conclusion ? It was now more thana
year since she had received an intimation
which a fidgety or unnecessarily nervous person
might have suffered to destroy all her peace.
Lady Brooke had of course not been untouched
by this warning : it had had the effect of bringing
her to England ; but she had not come to England
in such a state of alarm and anxiety that
she had been unequal to the task of coping
with the threatened danger when it presented

itself. On the contrary, she had retained the
command of all her faculties  she had been
cool, collected, and capable from first to last,
and the glorious result was this  that very day
she had taken Hannah Deanham on board a big
Cunard steamer bound for New York, and had
seen it steam away with her !  she had for ever
silenced and got rid of the woman  the only
living person who had it in her power to injure
her. Now she feared no one, and could only
think with delight of all that she had done
during the last twelve months. Another woman
would have lost heart when she heard that
Hannah Deanham had set out from Australia for
the purpose of revealing all that she knew. Lady
Brooke felt no fear at all, provided she could get
speech of the woman. She perfectly understood
her character. She had not come back from any
wish to do right, but simply because she wanted
more money  give her money, and she would
again go away as she had gone before. The
last sum paid her had kept her away nearly
twenty years  the same sum repeated would
have the like effect  in twenty years more she
might come or go as she chose  most of those

who were now interested in hearing her story
would then be beyond reach of being affected
by it. It had been rather a wrench to part
with the large sum of money required to bribe
Hannah Deanham to take her departure ; but
such sacrifices have to be made sometimes, and
to grieve over them is to double the pain they
give you. Hannah Deanham was now rolling
on the open sea, and Lady Brooke trusted to
her promises so implicitly that she never once
wished that the ship which contained her would
go to the bottom. That worry was gone out
of Lady Brooke's life for ever ! She would
now go back to her husband. She would tell
him of all that had been done for Olive  how
beautiful she was, how much admired, and how
certain to marry ; and if after that he still continued
to be so tiresome and so unhappy about
her, Lady Brooke did not intend to let his low
spirits affect hers as before. She would henceforth
live more for herself. And so she sat the
live-long evening through, and read her book
and was happy. The danger which had so
greatly threatened her was overcast  why
should she not be happy? Happy she was 

nay, even gay  and once she laughed aloud, and
laughed again with pleasure at the sound of her
own merry voice, and this time her mirth was
prompted by the thought that perhaps this
very day, poor, silly, wool-gathering Olive was
wandering, footsore and unsuccessful, from
house to house in Mulberry Street, Bethnal
Green, seeking in vain for the writer of that ill-written
letter, of which Lady Brooke was now
almost certain that she herself had read more
than the person for whom it was intended.
Poor, silly goose of a girl,' she said to herself ;
I gave her a tolerably plain hint that if she
went she would certainly lose her labour ! I
hope she did go  it will teach her not to have
plots and schemes which she is not clever enough
to manage. I shall always be amused when I
remember her futile efforts that day to get out
to meet Hannah Deanhara. How stupid she
was ! she had two splendid chances, and lost
both ! If she had only had the sense to walk
across the square to Gloucester Road Station as
I should have done, she would not have been
caught by me in King Street. Never shall I
forget how dismayed she looked when she saw

VOL. III. E

me ! She really is a charmingly pretty girl,
but no one can say that she has the least control
over her features  you can always see
what she is thinking  and then she actually let
me get to the Carmelite Church first !  hannah
Deanham and I were just going into the passage
to Palace Gardens, when the Eaymonds' carriage
drove up with Olive ; but, then, one minute in
advance is as good as fifty, when it is enough to
make you safe.'

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

Quand on n'a pas ce qu'on aime, il faut aimer ce qu'on a.

Three weeks after that evening at Mrs.
Brooke's, Morrison was on his way back to St.
Hilda's, and most heartily he wished he had
never left it. His journey had brought him
nothing but vexation and weariness. He had
of late thought far more about life and how to
shape it than anyone is intended to think  of
that he was convinced. For the future, he
would trouble himself with no such perplexities
he had his work to do, and that was enough
for him. He reached St. Hilda's about six  the
evening was dull, the sea leaden ; nothing was
bright but Mrs. Pickering's face, nothing warm
but her welcome. He was glad to get back.
His books and sketching folios were lying about,
the rooms looked very homehke, and after
dining comfortably he sat down to read. After

E 2

a while a most unaccustomed sound met his
ears; some one next door was playing the
Pastoral Sonata.

'Oh, deary me!' cried Mrs. Pickering,
who chanced to be in the room at the time, ' I
never once thought of that happening ! I might
have sent word that you were expected, and
then I am very sure and certain you would
never have been plagued with any music'

Plagued ! Mrs. Pickering ! it is magnificent.
It is Miss Keithley who is playing, I suppose ? '
Yes, it's her, I'll be bound for it ; but she'd
never have set that pianny open if she'd ha'
known you were here. She's well aware you
don't like music  I teller her myself you didn't,
and she must have seen you setting the organs
off!'

'Not like music! Organs and according
are not music  I should be a barbarian if I did
not like such music as that ! '

So the old lady next door said, sir, when
you were here before !  her servant girl told me
she did ; but Miss Eose, sir, she said as how she
was a bit of an artist herself, and quite understood
the artistic temperament, and that you

shouldn't have none of your work spoiled with
listening to her playing whether you wanted it
or not ! '

And so she denied herself? '

Indeed she did ! But she has made up for
it since you left, sir. It's not a deal of panting
can have been done by her ! She has sat for
hoi's together at that pianny. Our Cuthbert he
says he likes it, and it is good music, and he
knows what good music is. But, gad-a-mercy
me, Mr. Merrison ; but it is mournful and dowlas
and you hear it so fair ; and when all's said
and done, it is more like the tune the old cow
died of than anything else! For my part, I
often wish her fingers would tire.'

How are the ladies next door, Mrs. Pickering
? '

Oh, none so well, by all accounts. First
the old lady had a bad bout, and then the
young one ; but I reckon the young one must
have been a deal the worst, for she carries
illness set on her face.'

I am very sorry ' began Morrison.

Ay, so am I. I am sure she has been real
bad.'

Morrison expressed great regret, and felt
it ; but then he was silent, for he wanted to
listen to the sonata, and said so. Mrs. Pickering
unwillingly retreated. Miss Keithley played
the Toccata of Galuppi and then shut the piano.
To think that she had foregone such a delight
as her music must be to her, for his sake ! It
was another proof of her unselfishness. He
felt a strong wish to thank her, and scribbled a
hne to Mrs. Keithley to ask if he might run in
for half an hour during the evening to shake
hands with them. His note was only a civil
formality, as he had a standing invitation for
the evening ; but as they had both been ill,
and he himself away, he did not like to presume
upon it. Soon came an answer. ' Mrs. Keith-ley
regrets that she is unable to receive Mr.
Morrison this evening. She is not quite well,
which Mr. Morrison must kindly accept as her
excuse.' He threw the note down with a slight
feeling of disappointment ; but a minute or two
afterwards he picked it up again to see if he
was right in fancying that it was very stiffly
worded. It did seem so. Perhaps they were
annoyed with him for going away so abruptly

without a word of warning ; but he had written
a hne from London to say that he had felt a
sudden desire to get back there for a week or
two, but meant to return to St. Hilda's, and
hoped to see them again when he did. They
had no right to be offended with that. He
resolved to pay a formal call next day, well
within the limits of the prescribed hours, and
then make his peace.

He did call. Miss Keithley had gone out ;
Mrs. Keithley was not very well. He felt sorry
not to see them, and went for a long walk.
Next day, for the first time, he ventured to
look at his pictures. It is always a terrible
moment for an artist when he confronts a bit of
his own work after an interval of time during
which he has perhaps been allowing himself to
think hopefully of it. That first glance after an
absence reveals so much that had escaped the
eye before. For once, he experienced no strong
revulsion. He even began to work. The pictures
were thoroughly dry and in a delightful
state to paint on, and he never stirred from
that room, for ten days, except for meals. Even
at night he was occupied with them ; for night

and its comparative obscurity helped him to
see the composition, and he could always find
enough to do in studying parts. At last they
were done, and he had the strength of mind to
see that they were so, and took his hat and
went to make another call next door. While
he was standing outside, he could not help
wondering why his friends had left him so long
without taking any notice of him he had not
had time to think of this before. It was more
than ten days since he last called  he had
already tried to see them twice  if they could
not admit him when he offered a visit, why not
fix a time when they could ?

The ladies are out driving,' said the servant.
Morrison had nothing to do, now that
his pictures were finished ; so, rather by chance
than by choice, he walked to the railway
station. It is true that the view there was
finer than almost anywhere else. He was
standing under the portico, and looking across
the river, when some one brushed past him
with some boxes, and Morrison saw that they
were addressed to Austerfield. The name
startled him  so did the thought that Auster-field

was only twenty miles off. What if he
were to go there ?  the train was just starting 
he could stay there all night, spend a long day,
and then come back to St. Hilda's and pack
his pictures and return to London. In fio,
minutes he was on his way  in an hour and a
half he was there. He had not seen the village
since he was fifteen  it had disappointed lira
then  he did not expect to admire it more
now ; but nevertheless he had a strong wish to
go there.

Next day he came back, having spent a
long morning in visiting every field which he
and Olive had frequented as children, and ingathering
nearly every flower which he could
find in them. These he packed in a basket
which he carried to the station, and at once
despatched to her.

He was walking along the quay to his
lodgings, when he saw the two Keithleys ina
carriage. He stopped to speak, and was
shocked to see that Miss Keithley looked very
ill  almost as ill as her aunt. ' I have been
wishing so to see you ! ' cried he. ' May I not
do so ? '

Oh, certainly,' said Miss Keithley kindly.
The older lady began to say something which
did not sound so encouraging. He pretended
not to hear it  he was determined not to let
her be offended with him without a cause  he
would insist on hearing what was amiss, and
set it straight at once.

You are going home now ? ' said he ; ' may
I come in for a few minutes presently ? I want
to bring you these primroses,' he added, showing
a large bunch which he had in his hand, and
which, up to that moment, he had most certainly
meant to keep for himself. ' I have been
in the country  I had no idea they were out
till I saw them.'

His visit was accepted, and he went. Mrs.
Keithley received him. ' My niece is tired,' said
she ; ' you will kindly excuse her.'

Morrison thought this very odd  he fancied
that he could observe that Mrs. Keithley wished
to prevent his renewing his acquaintance with
her niece. ' I was sorry to see that Miss
Keithley looked very pale,' said he ; ' I trust
she has not been seriously ill ? '

She has been rather ill,' replied the lady,

in a manner which distinctly showed that she
wished to cut his inquiries short.

'Has she been able to go on with her
picture ? '

No ; I don't think she has done much toit
 but I don't know much about what she
does before I am up

Oh, by-the-by,' exclaimed Morrison, who
was determined not to be frozen by Mrs.
Keithley until he had said all that he wished,
' one thing I should like to beg her not to
give up, and that is her music ! I had no idea
that Miss Keithley was such a musician. From
something that my landlady has told me, I am
very much afraid that Miss Keithley has denied
herself the pleasure of using her piano on my
account. It is very kind of her to think of me ;
but will you be so kind as to tell her that I am
passionately fond of music, and hers could never
be anything but a delight to me ? ' Seeing that
Mrs. Keithley 's aspect was severely cold, he
continued : ' I speak in this way because Mrs.
Pickering told me that Miss Keithley did not
play because she was afraid of disturbing me.
I feel extremely sorry if this is really the case.'

Eose always does think far too much about
other people! It is very foolish of her  its
ridiculous ! No one thanks her for it.'

I thank her most sincerely ! She meant todo
me a great kindness.'

A faint indication of a desire to sneer appeared
on Mrs. Keithley's thin lips. Morrison
saw it, and said hastily, ' Mrs. Keithley, I wish
you would tell me why you are angry with me ? '
I am not angry with you  young people
know their own minds best.' Here she paused,
as if intending to say no more ; but suddenly,
and as if in spite of herself, she burst out with,
However, I should have thought that intimate
as we were, and seeing each other so frequently,
and you engaged, too, to come in after tea that
very evening  it was not quite the thing  not
exactly in the best of taste, to go off as you did,
and stay away so long, and never send a line to
explain your conduct until nearly a week had
passed by.'

But, Mrs. Keithley, I told you in my letter
from London  I am very sorry if I was so long
in writing it, I am sure  I did not know I was 
my head was so full of other things  I told

you in that letter that I had been unexpectedly
called away to London. I really don't see
why that should make any difference in your
kindness to me.'

' Well, I don't know, I am sure ' (How

Morrison wished she were a little bit more ladylike
!  but he had no idea how much worse she
was going to be, or how soon the thin veneer
of conventional manners rubs off those whose
politeness is not part of themselves.) ' In my
young days young gentlemen did not run after
young ladies, and take long solitary walks with
them, and come to see them almost every night
of their lives, and seem to be so happy in their
company, unless they meant something by it.
You say that your head was so Ml of something
else that you forgot to write to us for nearly a
week. Now, I say that, considering how you
had been going on here, your head had no
business to be full of anything else ! However,
though we might be foolish when you were
here before, don't say that we had anything todo
with bringing you back now. You can't say
that we have either of us lifted a finger to bring
you back this time ! '

Morrison was so amazed that he could not
speak. The thought which first came into his
mind was, is it possible that Miss Keithley
knows that her aunt is speaking thus? The
idea was horrible to him  but he dismissed it
as impossible. He drew a long breath of utter
dismay. He had a chivalrous veneration for all
women  he would have sacrificed much that
he cared for rather than Mrs. Keithley should
have dropped thus from the high place he had
assigned to her in common with the rest of her
sex.

You surprise me said he. ' I had no idea
whatever that I was behaving ill. I have a great
regard for Miss Keithley. I did not think it
wrong to show that I had. Circumstances
threw us together more intimately than is usually
the case, but I do not feel that I have
behaved ill. Does she think that I have ? '

No ; of course not. At least, I have no
idea what she thinks. She is a meek-spirited,
uncomplaining creature, just made, as it would
appear, to have her heart broken. So am I.
In a general way, I am as meek as the rest ;
but when it comes to ruining the happiness of

J

anyone whom I love as I love my niece Rosamond,
I must say what I thmk.'

May I ask if Miss Keithley knows that you
are speaking to me on this subject ? '

 Certainly not ! She would never forgive
me if she did ! It would kill her. I should
never have dreamed of saying anything to you
if you had not brought it on yourself ; but you
appear to wish to come back as usual, and the
only way to prevent it seems to be to let you
know why I don't wish it. I am only speaking
as a woman of the world  that's all.'

Disagreeable and serious as this conversation
was, when she said this, Morrison could have
smiled. The widow of a retired law-stationer,
who had spent her life, when well, as law-stationers'
wives do  and, when ill, on the sofa
of some second-rate lodging-house by the sea 
was claiming to talk as a woman of the world !
This thought forced itself into his mind, but he
was ashamed of it immediately. What did it
signify whether she were a woman of the world
or not ?  the world to which she referred was
not that by whose maxims he wished to square
his conduct.

Before he could speak, the door opened and
Miss Keithley came in. She had been requested
to absent herself, but had been seized by a
sudden fear that her aunt, whose sentiments
with regard to Mr. Morrison she well knew,
might be so unguarded as to express them to
him. She glanced uneasily from Mrs. Keithley
to Morrison  she saw by their faces that they
had been talking very earnestly, and on some
subject from which they could not readily
divert their minds ; she felt ready to sink into
the earth with shame. Mrs. Keithley was conscious
that she had gone too far, and said,
Now, Mr. Morrison, as my niece is here, you
had better say to her what you have just been
saying to me  about the music, I mean.'

Morrison gladly seized on this chance of
concealing the unpleasant situation, and heartily
thanked Miss Keithley for her thoughtfulness.
She began to think that she had alarmed herself
in vain, and that they had not been talking
about anything so very particular after all.
She spoke to him with her usual kindness, and
he had no difficulty in perceiving that she did
not wish him to feel that he had n any way

behaved ill to her. He rose to take leave.
Mrs. Keithley looked uncomfortably conscious
of what she had said, but, woman of the world
though she was, could find nothing to say which
would retrieve her position. When Morrison
shook hands with her, he sincerely hoped that
it was for the last time. Not so when he held
out his hand to Miss Keithley. As she placed
hers in his, she said, ' I must bid you good-bye
for some time, Mr. Morrison. I am leaving St.
Hilda's the day after tomorrow  I am going to
London to stay with my Aunt Ullathorne.'

In Kensington Square ? ' cried he in great
surprise.

No ; in Bethnal Green  her husband is
rector of St. Dionysius.' And Morrison went
back to his lodgings thinking, ' Eosamond
Keithley is a far-away cousin of Olive's ! '

All through that long evening his thoughts
ran in the same groove in which they had run
the night before he went to London and to
Olive. Would that he had never gone ! He
had then made up his mind that it would in
every way be well for him to let himself love
Eosamond Keithley. What had he gained by

VOL. III. F

violently breaking away from that decision?
Nothing, so far as Olive was concerned ; and
when Miss Keithley's white face rose up before
his mind's eye, he was afraid that, even if he
had gained anything, his gain would have been
a loss. What would his future life be to him
if, so long as it lasted, he had to turn his
thoughts away from one part of his past, as
too painful to dwell on ? Henceforth he would
always feel that a stain rested on his honour.
He had thoughtlessly enjoyed the good which
came in his way, without considering anyone
but himself. He, a man whose heart was filled
with love for another woman, had no right to
seek the society of any girl so constantly as he
had sought that of Eose Keithley. Night after
night he had gone to her house, and she must
naturally have felt that she herself was the
object of his visits. He certainly would not
have gone to see that aunt !

He had behaved very ill, and he knew it.
Olive was hopelessly beyond his reach, he knew
that too ; but how bitter it was to be obliged
by honour thus suddenly to take a step which
would irrevocably part him from her It was



his duty to take it. He sat down and wrote a
letter to Mss Keithley, folded it, and sealed it,
and then he put it in his pocket and went out.
For an hour or more he walked up and down
the pier in the cold moonlight  the strongest
wish of his heart was at war with the equally
strong fiat of his conscience. He had made up
his mind before, to try to win her love ; but he
had meant to do it gradually, testing his own
feelings as he went on, and being careful not todo
or say anything which would make it dishonourable
for him to thurn back, if he found
they were insufficient. But now all was to be
done at one plunge. He was at once to
relinquish the dream of his life, which, even
though he knew it was only a dream, had been
a delight to him, and must be a delight no
longer ; there was no help for it. It was after
midnight when he walked slowly home ; and,
as he passed the Keithley s' door, he noiselessly
dropped his note into the letter-box. She would
not know that it was there until next morning,
but he would have the satisfaction of feeling
that the thing was now beyond his control.
I have done what is right,' thought he, as he

Reentered

his own door, ' but, as long as I live, I'll
never see that odious aunt of hers again ! '

It was late in the afternoon next day, and
no answer had come to his note. ' She must
have received it,' he thought. ' Surely she could
have written an answer of some sort.' He
went out, thinking, as he did so, that when he
returned he would see a square note lying
in the centre of his sitting-room table, and
that on that note much depended. He chose
the pier for his walk, because it was often the
loneliest place in St. Hilda's. It was entirely
deserted now. He walked along, enjoying the
bright wintry sunshine, which shone on the
white crests of the waves as they eagerly
bounded in. He walked quite to the end of
the pier before he saw that one person ]besides
himself was there  Miss Keithley was leaning
over the wall, watching something so intently
that she did not know he was near her until he
spoke. ' What is it that you are looking at so
earnestly ? ' said he ; but, before she could
answer, ho saw for himself what it was. The tide
was high, and two or three fishing-boats, which
had gone out the evening before, were taking

advantage of it to come in ; but, while they
themselves were still hidden from sight by the
curve of the pier, their shadows were strongly
thrown on the wall of the other pier, opposite.
Spectral boats, manned by spectral sailors,
danced buoyantly in, and soon came the real
boats of which they were the precursors.

Are they not pretty ? ' said she ; ' but they
are rather ghostlike.'

Very ! ' said he ; and then he added
abruptly : ' You have not answered my letter ! '

I could not,' said she quietly. ' It took
me by surprise. I do not feel that you care
for me in that way ! ' She did not look in his
face, but her own showed that she was suffering
acutely. ' I am so afraid that my aunt
said something to you yesterday which made
you feel that you ought to do this. It was
very wrong of her if she did  both wrong and
absurd ! '

He could not bear to see her distress, and
said hastily, ' Do you remember the last walk
we had together  from Eastwick Nab I mean ? '

Yes, perfectly,' said she.

Well, the night after that I made up

my mind that the best thing I could do
for my own happiness was to ask you to be my

wife.'

For your own happiness ? ' she asked
eagerly. She was in such terror lest Mi's.
Keithley should have impressed on him that
this step was necessary for hers.

Yes ; for my own happiness. I thought so
then, and T think so still. Now what do you

say ? '

I say, yes,' said she, in a low but very
distinct voice, and she laid her hand in his.
His closed on it in a firm grasp while he said
very fervently, ' And I will try to be worthy of

you.'

He did not go to see her that evening ; he
felt as if he could never endure to see her aunt
again: but next morning he went to the
station to see her off. She looked very pretty
and happy ; in her hand were the primroses
he had gathered at Austerfield. ' I'U see you
on Saturday,' he said, as he put her into the
carriage ; for, as soon as his mighty packing
was over, he was to follow her.

Good-bye, till Saturday, then,' said she;

and, as the train swept round a curve in the
line and passed out of sight, he saw a hand
waving a bunch of primroses in token of farewell.
He felt very strange. They were
Ohve's primroses, gathered in fields sacred
to all true and loving memory of her, and
he had given them to another. He himself
was Olive's, and had given himself to another
too ; but, as he walked back to Mrs. Pickering's,
he still felt that he could not have done otherwise.


CHAPTER XXXV.

Be thou armed for some unhappy words.

Taming of the Shrew.

Lady Brooke had engaged lodgings in Wel-beck
Street. She had no longer a house and a
carriage and good old servants at her disposal,
but was left to her own resources. She was,
however, happy in the thought that the work
which she had come to finland to do was done,
and well done, and that in ten days more she
would be on her way back to India. One
morning Mrs. Vincent Raymond came to take
her a round of shopping. As the two ladies
had a good deal to say to each other, they left
Olive at home. 'She looks ill, Honora,' observed
Mrs. Raymond, who caught sight of
Olive as she watched their departure from the
window. ' Is she anxious about this new love-affair
of hers? He is sure to propose, isn't
he?'

Quite sure, I should say. When a man of
his age takes a fancy to a girl, he is usually very
nuich in earnest. He will make her a far better
husband than Sir John Ellerton would have
done. I am very glad she would have nothing
to say to him.' The two ladies were referring
to Mr. Ardrossan, whose visits had of late been
very frequent.

Hardly had Olive been alone ten minutes,
before Lady Ellerton was announced. She had
passed Mrs. Raymond's carriage in Oxford Street,
and had seen the two ladies with their worldly
heads bent together in the most earnest conversation,
on which she had instantly resolved to
make use of this opportunity of finding Olive
alone. Ohve was delighted to see her. She
had long been most anxious to know if she was
forgiven, and she saw forgiveness in every line
of Lady Egerton's face.

You had my message, dear ? ' said Lady
Ellerton. Ohve had received no message, and
said so. Lady Ellerton shrugged her shoulders
slightly, and said, ' I wrote to Lady Brooke
about six weeks ago. She asked me to dine
with her, and I thought I had better decline

that, but I asked her to give my kindest love
to you, and to say how thankful I was to you
for remembering your promise to me. You
chose the right course, dear  it was a thousand
times better to cut away all hope at once.'

You are speaking of my going away to
Harley Street when Sir John came to dine with
us. I know it was rude, but if I had stayed
he would have thought I wished to give him
encouragement.'

Precisely. When he found you were gone,
he at once understood what you meant. What
is one sharp pain, to what he might have had
to suffer if you had behaved as Lady Brooke
wished ? '

How is Sir John ? '

Well, I thank you ; he is yachting in the
Mediterranean, doing his best to forget you,
dear.'

It makes me so miserable  ' began Olive.

It need not. He will, I hope, be happy
yet, and you too, dear Olive  I ran in this
morning to tell you that you had my best
wishes ! Think of me as your friend. I shall
always rejoice in your happiness as sincerely as
I do now. Good-bye.'

Olive was slightly puzzled by this speech.
She supposed Lady Egerton to be uttering
benevolent wishes generally  she had no idea
that that good lady had come on purpose to
congratulate her on her engagement to Mr.
Ardrossan, which in some circles was already
spoken of as a settled thing. This visit was a
great comfort to Olive, who went back to her
music glad to think that she was forgiven. The
door opened suddenly. She had been so intent
on what she was doing, that she had not heard
the bell. Mr. Ardrossan came in. He looked
strange, and Olive saw in a moment that he had
not come to pay a mere ordinary visit.

You are alone ? ' said he, coming rapidly
forward ; ' I was told you were. Miss Brooke,
can you come with me at once to Bethnal Green?
I have found the person of whom we have been
so long in search  at least, I have found someone
who is as important as she.' Olive's heart
seemed to flutter and stand still  she looked
too much astonished to speak.

Don't lose a moment. She wants to see
you, and I promised to take you at once. Just
fling a shawl round you  my carriage is waiting,
and we must lose no time.'

Is she dying ? ' said Olive with great hesitation.


'No, not exactly  I mean, she will hive
some days longer, but she is dying Olive was
ready directly.

Back to Mulberry Street,' cried Mr. Ar-dross,
and in another moment they were on
their way. This had come so suddenly that
poor Olive was almost ill with the shock. She
sat with hands clenched together in the effort
to bear the excitement quietly, but her eyes
were anxiously fixed on Mr. Ardrossan. He
grasped her hand for a moment reassuringly,
and said, ' Have no fear. I will tell you all
that I know myself. Parnell  he is the 
 Parnell and I went on making
inquiries, and as we had been so unsuccessful,
and as you were still so certain that Mulberry
Street was the right address, I began to puzzle
my brains and try to think of every possible
thing which could be working against us. You
had told me that this Hannah Deanham said
that she could supply ample proof of the innocence
of the person in whom you are interested.
She had therefore probably been a lady's maid,

or nurse, in your relative's family. She did not
wish you to come to Mulberry Street, you said,
but to communicate with her by letter. She had
therefore some reason for keeping you away
from her home or lodgings, and, though she
signed herself Hannah Deanham, perhaps did
not give you the name by which she was known
there. Hannah Deanham may have been her
maiden name, and she may have had two
reasons for giving it to you  one to prevent
your finding her in Mulberry Street if you went
there to seek her, and the other to inspire you
with confidence. I mean, supposing that you
had gone to anyone who was acquainted with
some of the circumstances which this woman
professed to desire to tell you, and had asked if
anyone of the name of Deanham was ever a
servant in the house, you would naturally have
received an answer in the affirmative, which
would have made you inclined to trust her.
This seemed the obvious reason, but I could not
help letting my mind dwell on her odd prohibition.
Why should she tell you not to go to
Mulberry Street? There seemed to be no
reason why she should wish to keep you away

but one, and that was that there was some one
there who was either extremely desirous that
you should remain in ignorance of the things
which this Hannah Deanham was offering to
tell, or else much more anxious to do what was
right and to tell the whole truth than she was
herself. I fastened on the latter supposition at
once, and acted promptly on the new idea.
Hannah Deanham had a companion whom she
did not wish you to see. Parnell and I began
to look in every direction for a woman who
had been a lady's-maid in a gentleman's family
and who was now living in Mulberry Street
with some mother, aunt, or sister. We did not
seem to be on the right track till yesterday,
when we heard of a poor woman who is very
ill indeed and who seems to have no one to
attend to her. She is a thorough invalid, and
will never be well. She was nursed by a sister,
it seems, until lately ; but I find that on the 7th
of February this Avoman took it into her head to
go off to America. Her name was Hannah 
Hannah Wilkinson  and she had never said anything
about going to America to the people in
the house with her until just before she went
Olive started. The 7th of February was

the day on which Lady Brooke had gone to
Liverpool to take leave of a friend who was
starting for America. ' The 7th of February,'
said she, ' is the day I went myself to Bethnal
Green to find Hannah Deanham  how strange
it should be the day she left.' ' But I should not
have been allowed to go if she had still been
there,' she added, for she remembered Lady
Brooke's indifference to her movements that
morning's,

but she went by the name of Hannah
Wilkinson when there, and probably that is her
name now  she is a widow.'

Tell me one thing,' said Olive imploringly ;
you have found the sister : tell me, was my
feeling true  is my mother  can this sister
prove what I want her to prove ? '

He looked her very kindly in the face, and
said, ' I think so  I hope so  she says she can ;
but, dear Miss Brooke, I have respected your
secret  I have not allowed her to speak of it
to me. She told me that she could not die in
peace until she had revealed a secret which has
ruined the happiness of an innocent woman.
Her great wish was to see you quickly, so I
came for you at once.'

'Thank God! my prayer is heard!' said
Ohve ; and she covered her face with her hands
and spoke no more till the carriage stopped,
when she said in a frightened whisper, ' Are
we there ? '

He reverently helped her out of the carriage,
drew her hand within his arm, and took
her up a very narrow, dark and dirty, staircase.
He did not stop till they came to the door of a
room on the third floor. Olive's heart sank
lower and lower, and when he said, ' I will just
speak to her and then go and wait for you in the
carriage,' she could have grasped his arm in her
terror, and have begged him not to go out of
her sight ; but for her mother's sake she was
brave. He took off his hat and knocked at the
door. No one came, so he half-opened it, and
through the opening, Olive caught a glimpse ot
a poorly furnished, miserable-looking room. A
square of faded carpet lay on a by-normans
clean floor, a chest of drawers stood between
two small uncleaned windows. On the top of
it was a toilet-cover placed awry, a looking-glass
whose frame had given way, a shell-box,
and a cracked bottle full of yellow drinking-water.

Mr. Ardrossan stood before Olive, and
was speaking to some one inside : ' Mrs. Gardiner,'
said he, ' here is Miss Brooke. She did not
lose a minute in coming to you when she heard
that you had such a wish to speak to her.' He
took Olive's hand and led her in, and then she
saw a pale, wasted old woman, tightly wrapped
up in a shawl which had been so often washed
that all trace of its original colour or pattern
had disappeared, and now it was a mere dingy
grey. She was lying propped up with pillows
on a gaily painted iron-bed. Her hair, which
was pure white, was drawn back under a close-fitting
white cap. Her face was a delicate oval,
and there was a certain amount of refinement
in her features ; but her eyes, once blue, were
now dull and glazed, and she seemed to be
half-blind. She turned to where Olive was
standing, and said, ' But I don't see her, sir. I
see a lady there beside you, but she may be
anybody. Come close. Miss, close  if you are
like your mother, I shall know you at once.'

Much as Olive shrank from the neighbourhood
of a woman who had, as she believed,
betrayed her poor mother so cruelly, she forced

VOL. III. G

herself to go nearer to this unfortunate creature,
who thrust her wan face within an inch or
two of her own, and peered into it with those
terrible eyes which seemed to be more than
half-dead already. She gazed thus for sometime,
and even stretched out a shrivelled hand
to touch Olive's hair. Olive shuddered, but a
warning glance from Mr. Ardrossan urged her
to control her terror.

It's the same face. It's the same hair.
Oh, many's the time that I have seen her go
out dressed for a ball and have felt sure that no
angel in heaven could be more beautiful. What
she must have suffered ! ' And, as she said this,
the unhappy woman began to weep convulsively.
Two tears ran slowly down Olive's
white face. She was standing by Mr. Ardrossan
by a look he tried to comfort her.

You must not think that I have brought
you here to waste your time in watching me
cry,' said Mary Gardiner at length. ' No, I
have prayed for this chance, and I've got it. I
don't want to go into the Lord's presence with
a crime on my conscience which I was too
hardhearted to own to when I was alive. No

good will come of owning it now, but the Lord
above us well knows that that's none of my
fault;

You had better try to collect your thoughts,
so as to be able to tell Miss Brooke exactly
what you wish her to know. I will leave you
now, Miss Brooke ; you will find me in the
carriage  I will wait as long as you like.' And,
as Mr. Ardrossan said this, his eye wandered
round the scantily-furnished room in search of
a chair for Olive. Having found one he left
them, and then Mrs. Gardiner spoke.

Miss Brooke, your name is Olive ? '

Yes,' replied Ohve faintly.

I know it is  I was your nurse. I was
your mother's too  not from the beginning, but
from the time when she was kind of growed
up. I went to Wilburton Hall, which was her
home, when she was ten years old, and Miss
Ace eight. I left it with your mother about
ten years after, when she married. I knew all
her family ; I remember the young gentleman
who first courted her, whom we all thought
she was going to marry. His name was Lilburn ;
he was as handsome a gentleman as ever stepped,

G 2

and well liked by everyone, especially by us
servants, and Miss Dorothy would have married
him if Captain Brooke had not come forward.
Not that his coming forward made your mother
think less of Mr. Lilburn, who was her own
choice. She was as fond of him as ever, but
her father and mother thought that there was no
comparison between the two gentlemen, and did
their best to show Mr. Lilburn that he was not
wanted. They made her give him up and
marry Captain Brooke, and I went away with
her as her maid. Captain Brooke was a very
kind gentleman and fond of her, and, poor lady,
she did her best to seem happy. I often think
that they would have ended by being as happy
a couple as any you see, if Miss Honora Cal-thorpe
had not stayed so much in the house
with them.' (Ove clenched her hands: she
had felt this  she had known this  from the
very beginning.) ' She was a school friend of
your mother's, and had spent months upon
months with her at Wilburton. She was at the
wedding as chief bridesmaid, and there was nota
servant in the house who did not say, when
they came home from church that day, that one

of the bridesmaids would have liked to change
places with the bride. There had been a great
deal of talk about Miss Honora and Captain
Brooke all along. Some of us maintained that
she was very deep in love with him. She had
been so, it was said, before she found out that
he did not come to Wilburton for the sake of
seeing her, but her friend. Miss Dorothy Aisle,
and when Miss Honora did discover the truth,
she still hoped to turn him into a lover for herself,
because she knew that your mother was seton
marrying this other gentleman. Miss Honora
was terribly disappointed when she lost Captain
Brooke, and could not quite hide it ; but it is
my belief she felt nothing but the loss of his
money and good prospects, for it was not in her
to trouble herself much about any man who was
not well off. Anyhow, she should never have set
her foot in the house if I had been able to keep
her out, but your mother was always kind to her
more's the pity, for she suffered for it. Miss
Honora came far too much between husband and
wife ; and though she was supposed to be your
mother's friend, she always played the part
of being your father's. When trouble came

86 THE LEADEN CASKET. \

she sided with him altogether, though none could ,
have known so well as she how hard the poor |
young thing had tried to be a good, true wife.' ;

'Mrs. Gardiner,' sobbed Olive, who felt !
utterly cast down by these words, ' you are not :
going to tell me that my dear mother was not a ;
good wife ? ' I

Indeed I am not ! She did not love your \
father as a wife ought to do, but he knew that
when he married her  he was not deceived 
he would have her : but as for her being a bad
wife in any other way, she was not, and I can
prove it.'

Olive almost shrieked, ' You can ? You
are sure ? I knew all that was said against her
was false  but how can we prove it was ?  it
is so terrible not to be able to do that ! '

I can do it. Miss Olive,' said Mrs. Gardiner,
faintly but firmly. i

Oh, why did you not speak at the time,
then ? Why did you let her be condemned ? '
groaned Olive. ' 

The sick woman shook her head, and said,
You shall hear how it was  wait. Miss Ohve, ;j
until I tell you all.'

I,

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

Well excused !
That thou didst love her strikes some scores away
From the great comet.  Ales Well that Ends Well.

'Tell me all, then,' said Olive, in a voice
which no one would have recognised as hers.

I will, but my story will be a long one,
and I have hardly strength to tell it. Six
months after you were born, your father had to
return to India, but your mother was not well
enough to go with him. Your Uncle Frederick
came to London to stay with her, and that's
what brought on all the trouble. He was a
very kind young gentleman, but, oh dear! he
was a foolish one. One bad thing which he
did was to bring to the house that young
Lilburn who had been engaged to your mother.
It was terrible thoughtless of him, but he did
it. Your mother, poor lady, let your father
know that Mr. Lilburn was coming a great deal

to see her, and your father he put his foot
down at once, and said he would not have it !
So Mr. Lilburn was informed that he must come
no more. Poor gentleman, he went away telling
your mother that as long as he lived he
would go through fire and water to serve her,
but he looked broken-hearted. The next thing
silly Mr. Frederick did was something he had
given his father a faithful promise he never
would do  sign a bill for a friend. Major
Clinton  that was his friend's name  told Mr.
Frederick that putting his name to the bill was
a mere form, that the money he was signing
for would never by any chance be required of
him, and young Mr. Frederick, who ought to
have had more thought of his promise, did sign,
and then troubled himself no more about it.
Three months afterwards he received a letter to
say that the bill would be due on the 15th and
must be paid on the 18th  they gave him three
days' grace. I was sitting in your mother's room,
with you, my sweet innocent, on my knee, when
Mr. Frederick he danced into the room crying
out, " Oho I Oho ! Here's a nice bit of reading fora
timid, young, faint-hearted gentleman to sit

down and enjoy!" And your mother she took
the letter and thought it very serious ; but
your uncle he caught it out of her hand and
told her not to behave like a baby who did
not understand business  she understood business
himself, he said, and knew that this letter
meant nothing. It had only been sent to him
because he had signed the bill, but a similar
notice had of course been sent to Major Clinton,
who had drawn it. Major Clinton was the
man who had to make the payment, he said,
he himself had nothing to do with it. Then
your poor dear anxious mother looked up and
said, "Go to Major Clinton, dear Fred, and
then you will be quite sure that he understands
his part of the transaction." At first
Mr. Frederick would not, but she said so
much to him that next day he did go. He
went away whistling and tossing up his cap,
but he came back looking a changed man,
for Major Clinton had left the country, and it
was pretty clear that he had taken himself
off because he could not meet this bill. Your
uncle was told that he must pay the thousand
pounds or be made bankrupt ; but though he

had not fifty pounds in the world, he was \
more afraid of his father's getting to know \
what had happened than of anything else. He
ran upstairs to his own room and locked the j
door, and your mother ran after him, for he ;
had said something which made her afraid that
he was going to shoot himself. He would not j
open the door at first, but at last she got into
the room and did her best to comfort him by
telling him that she knew quite well how to
raise the money ; but he just lay on the bed as
if he had no hope left. She, poor thing, was
ready at once with a plan to help him. She
got together every bit of jewellery she had,
and some of her things were really splendid.
She tumbled all these into a bag and made
my sister Hannah, who was her maid now that
I was nurse, go with her to see if she could
not raise the money on them. Dear lady, her
feet were not made for going such errands,
but she went to a jeweller's shop, and said what
she had come to do. She was terrified when
the man looked at her very suspiciously, as if
he thought she had perhaps stolen what was
in the bag, and asked for her name and

address. "I don't see that you need know
that," she said. " Just count up what these
jewels are worth, and let me have their value.
I know they are very valuable."

"We must have your name and address,
madam," repeated the man, and he pulled out
a book to sprite it down. " What we do is
this : we take your address, and then we seal
up your parcel nth a note of the price which
we intend to give, written outside it, and return
it to you while we make inquiries. If, in the
meantime, you break the seal, we retract our
offer.'

" But why should you do that ? " said my
lady. " Why should my breaking the seal
make any difference ? "

" Because we should know that the contents
of the parcel had been offered elsewhere."


" But if you do all this, when can I have
the money ? "

" If you could call again in a few days'
time "

" Too late ! " cried your poor mother, " you
must let me have the money at once."

" It is our way of doing business," said the
jeweller with great indifference ; and no more
than that could be got out of him.

" They will all say the same thing to us,
Hannah," said your mother to my sister as,
much disappointed, she left the shop. Hannah
told her that the pawnbrokers were the best
people to go to, but the poor lady shook her
head. Presently she recollected Mr. Lilburn,
and that he had said he would go through
fire and water to serve her ; so she made up
her mind to go and ask him either to sell the
jewels for her or to pawn them. She and
Hannah saw him. Hannah never left your
mother all the time she was talking to him.
Hannah stayed with her while she waited in
his room till he came back with the money.
He was away for an hour or so, and after
all was not able to get it that day, but said
he would give it to them the next, if they
could come again at the same time. Hannah
and your mother did go the next day, and
again Hannah never left the room; and yet,
when the trial came, and they accused your
mother, dear innocent lady, of spending hours

alone with Mr. Lilburn in the hotel where he
was living, Hannah actually let it be said, and
swore, that they had been alone together all
the time, on both occasions ! '

But,' cried Ohve, ' when so many people
knew the truth, why did no one speak ? Who
first brought such a wicked accusation ? '

I do not know. Miss Honora was the
one who had the most to say about it. I
shall always believe that she was the one to
write and tell your father what had happened,
and to persuade Hannah to say that your
mother and Mr. Lilburn had been so long
alone together.'

'But why did my Uncle Frederick not
speak ? He knew the truth, and should have
told it.'

He was dead, Miss Olive I He shot himself
before your mother so much as got the
money.'

Ohve shuddered. What a terrible tragedy
she was hearing !

Yes,' said Mary Gardiner, ' that is what he
did. He was afraid of his father's anger.'

'But why did my mother not make the

whole story known? She could have brought
witnesses to prove it.'

'Poor dear lady,' said Mary Gardiner,
speaking with great difficulty, ' she could not
do anything as she ought to have done it. She
seemed as if she couldn't think, or didn't care.
Your uncle's death nearly killed her  she was
quite out of her mind at the time  and then,
when she was getting over that, this new
trouble came ; and when she found that your
father doubted her truth, she never held up her
head again.'

And they still went on with the trial ? '

Yes, we servants all thought it was gone
on with that master might marry Miss Honora.
She had been coming and going all the time.
I thought then she must be plotting something
with Hannah. I know she did, now.'

You say that this Hannah swore to something
which she knew to be false. What were
you about to let her do it ? '

Miss Olive,' cried the poor woman in a
voice of great agony, ' you may well ask that ;
but what could I have done 7 You see, I knew
nothing but what Hannah herself chose to tell

me. At first she told me that she had never
left them alone ; but when I reminded her of
that afterwards, she said I had made a great
mistake, for she had never told me that she had
stayed with them, and that I must please to
remember that she would be put on her oath at
the trial, so she was not at all likely to say what
was untrue. At last I did not know what to
think.'

Then how did you find out that she had
sworn falsely ? '

I first suspected it by this. Hannah, who
always spent her wages as she went along, had all
at once money enough to pay her and my passage
out to Australia, and to set us up there in a
good business. Why were both of us to go sofar
away, and where did the money come from
to take us ? I began to make sure that it came
from Miss Honora, who was so anxious to get
your father for a husband that she was quite
willing to give handsome presents to anyone
who helped her.'

But all this is mere supposition,' said Olive,
sadly and very hopelessly.

Xo, it is not ! It is more than that. Years

afterwards, when Hannah and I were both well
married, she owned it. She said she had done
a very good deed, and it was nothing to be at
all sorry for. She said your father had by this
time most likely got a wife who really loved
him, which he had not got before, and that your
mother had recovered her senses, and had then
been heartily glad to find herself divorced, and
free to marry Mr. Lilburn, who was the only
man she had ever loved. I have three or four
letters Hannah wrote, all telling me this. She
and I did not live in the same place after we
were married, and I had many troubles. I
had never been really easy about your poor
mother's trial. I had always had a secret fear
that she had not had fair play. After I had
buried three children  all the children I ever
had  I fell into quite a low way, and used to
sit thinking of them and of your mother, and
of what she must be suffering, if she had recovered
her mind, at having her only child
taken from her. I wrote to Hannah about this
over and over again, and told her I was sme she
had forsworn herself, and begged her to confess
and that was why she wrote those letters.'

Olive at once pounced on this chance of obtaining
a bit of direct evidence. ' You say you
have these letters, Mrs. Gardiner ? ' cried she.

'Yes, I have them. They are hidden away
in a very safe place. When Hannah was here
I was afraid of her getting hold of them, and
since she left I have never been well enough to
walk across the room to the place where they
are.'

Let me get them,' said Olive anxiously.
'pairs. Gardiner, you will let me have those
letters ?  you ought ! '

'Yes, you shall have them. Miss Olive  I
intend you to have them; but never mind
about them now  let me get on with my story 
I feel faint  last time I fainted was after Hannah
went, and I did not come rightly to myself for
days.'

Let me get you the letters, and then you
can go on with what you are telling me  you
see, the letters are so important.'

My story is important too, and you had
better let me tell you the end of it while I can
I can't say much more  I am well-nigh
spent. The doctor says if I faint again I shall,

VOL. III. H

most likely not come out of the fit alive, so you
had better let me make a finish.'

'Oh, do let me get the letters,' pleaded
Olive. ' If you were to faint or be ill again,
I should never get them.' Even while she was
speaking, Olive feared that she had lost her
opportunity of securing them. Mary Gardiner
seemed to be lapsing into this dreaded state of
unconsciousness. Her eyes were closing heavily,
and her head was sinking low down on her
breast. The poor woman was exhausted by
her long story  that, together with the excitement
of dwelling on these painful recollections,
was overpowering her. Olive got up to see if
she could find anything in the shape of refreshing
food. A dusty brown teapot was on the hearth,
and a still dustier kettle stood beside it. She
placed this on the handful of red cinders which
did duty for a fire. Meanwhile, Mary Gardiner
had recovered a little, and when Olive turned
round after doing this, she saw her poor faint
eyes fixed on her with a renewal of intelligence
in their glance. It was only for a moment, but
the sight made her hopeful. ' Now that I amon
my feet,' said she, ' let me give you those

letters. Don't think of tiring yourself by talking
any more until you have had a cup of nice
warm tea Mary Gardiner did not look as if
she would ever speak again  her head was once
more nodding on her breast. Olive was very
anxious, but earnestly hoped that this was
nothing more alarming than a momentary attack
of sleep. She stood silently watching her, and
waiting till the kettle would boil. Suddenly
Mary Gardiner awoke with a start and looked
eagerly around ; her eyes were too weak to see
across the room. Olive spoke, and a look of
intense relief came over the sick woman's face
she had feared that her listener was gone.
'Yes, get the letters, Miss Olive,' said she,
answering the question which had not until this
moment penetrated to her mind. ' They are ina
little flat box which is squeezed tightly in between
the back of that chest of drawers and the
wall. The key is here, safe under my pillow.
Push your hand into the bed  feel well about,
and you'll find it.'

Olive found both key and box, and, that
done, gave Mary Gardiner the tea which she
had prepared for her. Inside the box were

H 2

three or four old letters tied together by a
black ribbon.

Take them all. Eead them when you get
home. They are all from Hannah. She has
asked me about them more than once since we
came back here, and, may the Lord forgive me !
I said they were burnt. You will see that she
owns she took a false oath  it's all there ; but
you shouldn't have been in such a hurry for the
letters. Miss Olive ; you might have waited till
rd got my story told. It's a chance I ever
finish it now ! '

Why do you wish to finish it now, after
keeping silence so long ? ' asked Olive doubtfully,
afraid lest after all there might be some
flaw in the woman's truth.

Did I not tell you that I had been wanting
it told all along ? You will see that, when you
go through those letters. Would you have me
die with such a crime on my conscience ? '

But you did not commit it.'

I did not. Not for worlds would I have
done such a thing. But I had a good guess
what Hannah must be doing. She changed her
story so much, and she was so often closeted

with Miss Honora ; and though she pretended
that it was all about doing their very best to
bring poor mistress's mind back, I felt sure it
couldn't be about that. I did not commit the
crime, I know that  but I let it be committed
without telling my secret thoughts, and, besides
that, I profited by it. Hannah and I went to
Australia with money enough to keep us respectable
all our days, even if we had not
married  though, mind you, I had nothing but
what she gave me.'

Why did you come back to England ? '
Hannah came back because she had run
through all the money she took out with her,
and wanted the new Lady Brooke to start her
off again with some more. She wrote to her
to England, and the letter had to be sent all
the way to India, and Lady Brooke never
answered it. It turns out now that she came
home on purpose to speak to Hannah instead of
writing. Lady Brooke is not one to put what's
dangerous on paper. When Hannah got no
answer, she set off home. I fancy she thought
to herself if the one side would not give her
money to hold her tongue, the other might to

make her speak. She never said that to me,
for she knew how I wanted her to confess. She
didn't want me to come home with her, but my
husband was dead as well as hers, so I thought
I'd come. I let her have no peace all the way-home
about telling the truth. I said, if she
didn't, I would. She said she would, and she
wrote to you. She was very much afraid of my
writing to you, but my health broke down on
the way home, and I could not write, and she
would not let you be brought here. That's
what makes me think she never really wished
you to know this, unless you showed yourself
willing to give her money for telling. Lady
Brooke got hold of her letter to you, and met
her instead of you, and she gave her five hundred
pounds to go to America with a cousin of
ours, but Hannah never told Lady Brooke that
I was still alive and here in London. Hannah
left me fifty pounds of Lady Brooke's money.
It is more than I shall ever want.'

'Then, you have again taken money for
holding your tongue? '

'Miss Olive, I did not want to hold my
tongue I My only wish was to do what was right.'

Lieu, why did you not write to me ? '
'Because I was anxious you should be
happy. I should never have lifted a finger to
bring you here if the Scripture-reader had not
told me you wished to speak to me. Hannah
told me before she left that I should do terrible
harm if I did speak ; for you, Miss Olive, were
just going to marry a very rich and high-up
gentleman who would not like to have this old
disgrace raked up again, and besides that, she
said it was of no use to rake it up, for all those
who had suffered by what had been done were
dead and gone. I knew myself that Mr.
Frederick had shot himself, and that Mr. Tilbury
had died in the West Indies soon after the
trial, and Hannah told me about your mother
dying in a private lunatic asylum ten years ago ;
and she said over and over again that speaking
now would only make your father end his days
in misery, and perhaps be the cause of your
great match being broken off.'

'They have deceived you again,' cried
Olive ; ' all this is untrue. My dear mother is
not dead  I saw her ten months aj?o, and I am
not going to be married.'

Miss Olive, is that true ? ' cried Mary
Gardiner, in dismay.
It is perfectly true.'

Deceived again ! Left here to die alone,
with not a single soul to tell me a word of truth !
And every penny I spend is got by letting their
wickedness go on ! I am living on the price of
innocent blood ! Come what will, I'll not do
that ! Miss Olive, put your hand once more
under my pillow  you will feel a paper parcel.'

Olive obeyed, and with some difficulty
found what she wanted. ' Open it, please,' said
the poor woman, faintly. Inside were nine
five-pound notes and a couple of sovereigns.
That's what's left of her fifty pounds  Lady
Brooke's fifty pounds. Take them. Miss Olive,
and give them to her. They came from her
and they shall go back to her  food that's
bought with that money shall never cross my
lips again  no, not if I die for want of it.'

Olive stood motionless. 'Take it. Miss
Olive  give it back to her.'

Olive burst into tears and cried, 'I can
never speak to her again ! '

You won't take it for me ? ' said Mrs.

Gardiner, giving way to a feeble passion of tears.
With the selfishness of old age and illness, she
could only think of her own wishes and feelings.
You refuse ? You won't take it ? ' she wailed.
I will take it ; I will either return it to
Lady Brooke, or give it to some poor creature
who is in want.'

Do so. Say you forgive me. Say you
will pray to God to overlook what I did. It
was not my fault ; both Hannah and Miss
Honora were far too clever for me ; that's how
it happened.'

'I do forgive you,' said Olive, who was
quietly crying. ' I will tell my mother how unhappy
you have been, and I will do all that I
can for you ; but you must do one thing more :
you must leave a written confession behind
you  it need not be in your own writing, but
you must sign it. My mother is alive, and we
must have every proof of her innocence.'

Then, have it done now. I have talked
too much. When tomorrow comes I don't
suppose I shall be alive  if I am, I shan't be fit
to do what you want.'

I'll get Mr. Ardrossan to come at once,'

said Olive, and ran down and told him what
lie wanted.

'Both Parnell and Dr. Ullatliorne are at the
Mission-room,' said he. ' It is there, at the end
of the street. I'll go and bring them directly.
She can make her deposition in their presence ;
you had better stay in the carriage.'

Olive assented faintly ; she was completely
exhausted. Before he left her, she gave him
the contents of her purse and said, ' Give this
to Mrs. Gardiner ; she has no money at all.'

Chapter XXXVII.

And Sleep, that sometimes shuts up Sorrow's eye,
Steal me awhile from mine own company.

Midsummer Nights Dream.

Take me to my aunt's in Harley Street,'
said Olive to Mr. Ardrossan when all was done
and he rejoined her. ' I must never see my
stepmother again ! ' As she spoke, she raised
her heavy eyes to his, to see if there was any
fear of his trying to persuade her to temporise
or be patient. She was determined not to adopt
either of these courses, but felt as if she had no
strength to contend with him. He bowed. He
wrapped her in a warm rug, for he saw that she
was cold with exhaustion, gently made her lie
back, and then said, ' You have only to express
your wishes  they shall be obeyed.' She said
no more, but lay still considering with herself
what she had better do. She resolved at once

to tell all to her uncle, and to beg him to lose
no time in freeing her mother's name from dishonour.
So far as her own future was concerned,
she had but one plan  her very life
should be given to make her mother happy.
She felt an intense satisfaction in the thought
that the false Lady Brooke would now be
brought down from her high estate, and made
to suffer some of the bitterness of the life to
which she had doomed the friend of her youth.
When Olive thought of her father, she never
considered that he would be pained by what
she had discovered; her feeling was that it
would remove a mountain of care from his
mind to learn that the wife whom he had loved
so much had been innocent. Swift justice should
overtake the guilty, and then she and her father
and her mother would for the rest of their days
dwell together in love and trust. Thank God
for letting this come to pass ! Such were the
thoughts that filled her mind all the way home,
and she sat looking straight before her, with
eyes bright but bitter, with flushed cheeks, and
lips most firmly set together. Never once did
she seem to be aware that she was not alone.

The carriage stopped in Harley Street.
Then Mr. Ardrossan spoke. ' I shall leave
you now, Miss Brooke,' said he ; ' but for
heaven's sake do nothing rashly.' There was
a look of cruel determination in Olive's face
which he did not like. ' I shall come to see
you in the morning, but Dr. Brooke will be your
best adviser.'

He must see that justice is done, and done
quickly,' said Olive firmly. ' For twenty years
they have kept me from my mother ! '

You will not act without advice ? ' said
Mr. Ardrossan anxiously.

No, I promise you I will not. Good-bye,
Mr. Ardrossan. As long as I five, I shall never
forget your kindness to me.' She put her hand
in his as she spoke, and grasped it warmly in
her gratitude. It lay there a moment, and
then he raised it to his lips and said, ' God bless
you ! Look on me as entirely devoted to your
service.'

She went in to her uncle's house, and, without
speaking to the servant, opened door after
door, until she had penetrated to the sanctuary
of the consulting-room. The window was

open, a keen March wind was blowing in, but j
no one was there. Her eyes turned to the
mantelpiece, and she saw that it was four |
o'clock  an hour when her uncle was never to ;
be found at home  she had imagined that it i
was about one. When she left the room, the I
man-servant was still in the hall. Dr. Brooke ,
was out, he said, and would not be back till ;
nine. He had gone down to Brighton to see \
Miss Lucy, but would be home in time for Mrs. I
Brooke's reception. \

Oh, it is Tuesday ? ' said Olive drearily, i
She had forgotten that on that evening her \
aunt held a salon. \

This 'ameer's for you, ma'am,' said John, i
pointing to a hamper-like basket on the floor. .
It came about half-an-hour ago. Mrs. Brooke
said you were expected here to-night, so we
need not send it on to Warbeck Street.'

Was I coming here to-night ? Oh, I
forgot.' She forgot everything now but the
one all-important fact that her mother was
innocent, and that she had the proofs of this in
her pocket. She went into the dining-room,
took out the packet of letters, and began to read.

Each and all proved the truth of what Mary
Gardiner had told her, and Olive had no difficulty
in perceiving that this poor woman, who
was not half so clever as her unscrupulous
sister, had been alternately soothed and deceived
by her as seemed most convenient. Olive's
heart swelled within her as she read. So far
as evidence went, these letters were all that
could be desired ; but for every false word in
them she longed to inflict years of torture on
the wretches who had behaved so infamously.
She pined for her uncle's return ; it seemed
cruel that she should have to postpone her
revenge until he came. She would have liked
to go at once to the so-called Lady Brooke,
and, stripping her of her stolen name and place
and honour and regard, drive her forth with
execration.

She must have been sitting thus for more
than an hour when she heard Mrs. Brooke's
voice in the hall. ' Miss Brooke here, you say,
John ? Why did you not let me know ? Did
you tell her that some flowers had come for
her? I know they are flowers, because I
lifted up the corner of the hamper. If she is

in the dining-room, take it in to her.' And
Mrs. Brooke, who had just pleased herself
beyond all expectation in an extremely difficult
bit of description, ran into the dining-room,
kissed Olive, spread out a newspaper to receive
the hamper and flowers, and cut the strings
which tied down its lid, without once looking
into the poor girl's face ; and before she could
do so, she was called away. Before going, she
threw back the lid of the hamper and revealed
a mossy bed in which were wedged eight or ten
bunches of primroses, large and bright as none
but country-primroses can be, and with luxuriant,
frankly, well-nurtured leaves. Besides
these, were dark purple crows-feet with their
black-speckled leaves, and golden muscadine as
fresh as when plucked, and daisies and so-called
buttercups, and some frail Lac-streaked anemones.
One had its little brown twig-like root
attached to it, and when Olive saw that, she
remembered days long gone by when it was
such a grief to her and to Willie when they ran
to gather a wood anemone, and the plant only
yielded up its flower with its life. Some time
before this recollection came to her, she had

divined that these flowers came from Austerfield
and were sent by him. She had known it instinctively
as soon as the hamper was opened.
No one but he could have known the delight
that such flowers as these would be to her.
Most lovingly she handled each bud and leaf
and spray, as one by one she lifted them out
and placed them in order on the table. The
first layer of flowers and moss was removed, and
now came some stiff* shoots of blackthorn, and
branches of softly glistening small-leaved ivy,
and twigs of hazel and willow, with faint green
catkins, or the large downy grey ones fledged
with golden plumage and looking like young
ducklings which have just chipped the shell.
Everything that could be found at this early
season was there, even a small sheaf of Olive's
well-remembered pink-sheathed sycamore buds
and some closely-shut crozier-shaped fern-leaves.
Never in her fife had any flowers given
her half the delight that these first-fruits of
spring's daring gave her now. Her youth, and
the thoughts which had filled her mind when
her feet had strayed over the fields where these
flowers had so lately grown, swept back with a

VOL. III. I

force that well-nigh overpowered the cruelly |
painful present. The basket was still not :
empty. Here she had a primrose root with i
some of the russet-brown oak leaves of the year ;
before still clinging to it. They were dry and |
withered now, but had helped to build up its ;
warm winter's nest. And what was this beside '
it ?  A branch of something with crumpled and i
half-unfolded leaves of the most tender green. \
One or two gentle touches of Olive's fingers |
uncurled them, and then she saw that it was a j
bit of lime-tree, and she knew the tree which |
had borne it, and why it had been sent to her \ \
The sight of this, and the sharp contrast be 
tween the time when she had not a care in the '
world, and the present, when she had seen and \
suffered so much  the shame she felt when she ;
remembered that, only a few minutes before, :
revenge had been almost more in her mind !
than justice  completely overpowered Olive, ]
and when Mrs. Brooke came back, she found j
her sitting with her face on the dining-table, 1
sobbing as if her heart would break. \

'What is the matter, darling? Don't cry
so  don't poil your beauty. I expect such

delightful people here to-night  Olive, you
must stop.'

But Ohve only wept the more, and when
she was able to explain what had happened, her
aunt did not wonder at her tears. Mrs. Brooke
made her go and lie down, gave her some food,
and promised most faithfully not to let Lady
Brooke penetrate to her place of refuge.
Ohve relied on her word, and, after an hour
or two of painful and disturbed thought, fell
asleep. The noise of carriage wheels grinding
harshly against the curbstone, and the flinging
back of the doors of hansom-cabs, awoke her.
She was lying in the dark in a bedroom which
was strange to her ; she had not dared to goto
her own, lest Lady Brooke should come in
search of her, and know where to find her
even though told that she desired to be left
alone. It was dark, save for the light which
came from a gas-lamp in the street. Doors
opened and shut, names were loudly announced,
voices and sounds of all kinds multiplied, and
at length Olive remembered that her aunt was
seeing her friends that night, and they were
arriving in quick succession.


She lay quite still, and at last her weary
eyes closed again and she heard no more. A
hand touched her roughly. ' Miss Olive !
Miss Ohve ! ' said one of the servants who was
all-unconscious of her anguish, ' do you happen
to know where the cellar-key is ? '

Ohve started up, crying, 'What has happened
? Is it anything very bad ? '

Oh no. Miss ; not bad at all  at least, not
in the way you think. We can't find the
cellar-key nowhere, that's all. Every one of us
has been looking for it more than an hour, in
every place we can think of, but we can't find
it, do what we will.'

Olive felt confused  she had been sleeping
very heavily. ' Have you asked Mrs. Brooke
about it?'

Yes, Miss ; she knew it was lost before
the company came, for the wine was to have
been got out ready, but no key could be found.
She said we was just to look about everywhere
till we found it, for it couldn't be very far,
because she had it at five o'clock. She knows
that, for just before she went into the diningroom
to speak to you, the cook sent a message

to her to ask for a little rum to flavour her
creams, and she got it for her, and then went
straight to you in the dining-room, where you
was arranging your flowers, and what she did
with it then she does not know. We thought
you might have picked it up. Miss Olive.'

Olive felt in her pocket, but it was not
there, and she had no other suggestion to offer.

There's not a drop of wine but what was
in the decanters at dinner ! Master is sure to
be terrible cross about it! John is, I know.
He says he would rather have forfeited a whole
year's wages than have such a thing occur in
any family where he happened to be living at
the time. Where can that key have got to ? '

Olive went down the back stairs, and by
back ways to the dining-room. She was afraid
of being seen by some of the gay guests whose
voices were now resounding through the house.
The dining-room was now the supper-room,
and a well-filled table stretched from one end
of it to the other. Olive, candle in hand, and
aided by the maid, looked under it and all
round, but no key was there; and when she
stood up again, the brightly sparkling wineglasses,

which seemed destined to remain empty,
mocked her by the prominent part which they
played in the general effect. At one end of
the long table was a prettily arranged group of
primroses in tall glasses, and when she saw
these she knew that, though her aunt might be
careless about housekeeping matters, she had
kindly remembered to put these treasures into
water for her. They suggested a happy
thought, and she suddenly exclaimed, ' Did
Mrs. Brooke put these primroses in water ? If
she did, she may have thrown away the key
with the broken flowers and bits of stalk.'

Yes, she put them in the glasses, and she
rolled all the rubbish and dead leaves and
things in the paper the hamper was standing
on, and stuffed it out of sight inside it.'

Look there, then,' said Olive, who was
anxious to avert from the house this signal disgrace.
The girl snatched at the hope and ran
away to look, and just as she had gone there
was a loud peal at the bell. ' How late some
of the people are in coming ! ' thought Olive, as
she drew back within the shelter of the diningroom
door. She heard some one with a very

sweet voice asking for Dr. Brooke, and piteously
pleading to be allowed to see him for a moment,
even if he had friends. John was stern. In
his estimation, it enhanced the dignity of the
family that he should be so. ' Lets them see
that master is not short of patients,' was what
he said, when alluding to his own peremptory
and conciliatory manner.

He is from 'one, ma'am ; one of his own
young ladies who is at school at Brighton is not
very well, and he has gone there to see her.'
Ohve had not heard of this reason for his absence
before.

When does he return  ' inquired the lady
at the door, in great anxiety.

Sometime to-night. It is uncertain,' said
John, who could not be expected to have much
feeling for a lady who had nothing better thana
street cab waiting for her at the door ; ' you
had better call in the morning, between ten and
one.'

In the morning ! ' said the lady, in a voice
so sad and yet so delightful that Ohve wondered
how John could have the heart to resist it. ' Oh,
do let me wait here a few minutes. I am so
anxious to see him, and he may come to-night.'

He could not go out again if he did, ma'am.
He is not well himself. He never attends night
cases.'

The lady said something of which Olive
only heard the sound ; that voice was somehow
well known to her. She had not heard it for
years, but there was something about it which
she could never forget. She peeped out, and
just within the doorway she saw the lady whom
she used to know as Alice, but whom she now
knew to be her mother's sister. She was just
saying, ' Let me wait and ask him to go out
myself  you don't seem to think how important
it is. It is a case of life or death.'

In a moment Olive went to the door, took
the lady's hand, led her into the consulting-room,
made her sit down, and then flung herself
on her knees before her, and cried, ' Is it my
mother who is ill ? '

She is very ill,' said Alice Ainsley, whose
eyes were swimming with tears.

Not dying ? ' said Olive, in an awe-struck
voice.

I fear it. I have feared it all day. I came
to Dr. Brooke as the last chance of saving her ;
if you had not come to me I should have lost it.'

Uncle will go to her the moment he returns.
You will let me go too, won't you ? ' she
added. ' She is my mother.'

You know it, then ? ' said Alice. ' You
have at last been told ? '

I have been told. I know everything 
more than anyone else, for I know what was
said of her was false. I learnt that to-day, and
have the proof of it in my pocket.'

Alice softly took Olive's hand, and said, ' If
this could have happened before ! Now, I fear
it is too late  oh, how I wish your uncle would
come ! '

Olive went to the supper-room to see if John
were there. He was now putting wine in
abundance on the table. 'John,' said she,
when Dr. Brooke returns, ask him to come tome
in the study at once. Don't let him go upstairs,
I mean  make him come to me.'

Bless you, Miss, do you know what o'clock
it is ? It is eleven, and he has been at 'one an
hour or more, and now that the cellar key has
been found 'id in the 'ameer, the first thing
he'll have to do will be to come down to
supper.'

Oh no ! ' cried Olive. ' Don't say that supper

is ready until lie has got away with us,
go upstairs and give him a note from me. Ask
him to read it at once,' and she hastily took a
scrap of paper and wrote, ' Come into the study
the moment you receive this. It is most important
that you should not delay.  Olive.'
John, if you don't bring Dr. Brooke, I'll go to
him myself.'

John went sulkily away, declaring to himself
that it was ' quite infra dig. to stay in a
place where such 'ole-in-a-corner goings on
took place.' Olive clung to the doorway for
support. Her uncle came immediately. ' Ove,
my child, what ails you ? ' said he.

My mother is ill, perhaps dying. Come to
her.'

Your mother is upstairs, and the gayest of
the gay.'

Not that creature ! ' said Ohve, with a
gesture of horror. ' My true mother, I mean.
Come to her. You have been sent for.'

Who has sent for me ? ' said Dr. Brooke,
who was so startled that he was confused.

Olive pointed to the study. Dr. Brooke
made a step forwards and met Alice.

Alice ! ' lie exclaimed. ' You here ? '

'Eichard, Dorothy is very ill  her life is
in danger. My only hope is in you. Will you
come to her ? '

Of course I will said he.

The cab which had brought Alice Ainsley
was still waiting for her, and the three went
forth into the darkness together.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

If it were now to die,
'Twere now to be most happy ; for I fear
My soul hath her content too absolute.
That not another comfort like to this
Succeeds in an unknown fate,  Othello.

O thou soft natural death, that art joint twin
To sweetest slumber.  VittoHa Corombona.

The cab stopped at a house which, so far as
Dr. Brooke could judge, was in the neighbourhood
of Hampstead. ' I will go and prepare my
sister for your visit,' said Alice, opening the door
of a downstairs room. ' Will you wait here fora
minute or two ? ' She left them alone, and
then Olive whispered, ' Uncle, if you were to
tell my mother that I have to-day seen a servant
of hers who can prove that she was unjustly condemned,
perhaps that might do her more good
than anything else that could be done for her.'

Is that true ? ' exclaimed Dr. Brooke, in
startled surprise. 'I have always believed

there was something very wrong about that
trial ; but can it really be proved ? '

It can. Perfectly proved.'

Did you say a servant of hers ? One of
the Deanhams, I suppose ? Good-for-nothing
women, they both were ! Why couldn't she
speak out sooner ? '

It is a long story. One of them was much
more guilty than the other. She was paid by my
stepmother to keep silence. That was at the
time of the trial ; but she has again had
money from her, and is now in America ; her
sister is here, and has told me all. Everything
can be proved. She has made a deposition
before Mr. Ardrossan and Dr. Ullathorne. Besides,
I have letters in my pocket which are
proof enough without anything further.'

Thank God ! ' cried Dr. Brooke fervently ;
and then in the very next breath he doubted the
wisdom and justice of the God whom he was
thanking, by saying, ' How cruel if this has only
come to light when it is too late to be of any
comfort to your poor mother ! '

Oh, it hasn't,' cried Ohve hopefully. ' It
can't have done that. Uncle, I may see her ? '

'Of course you may, but not yet. You
heard what your aunt said on the way ? She
is suffering from heart-disease ; we must not
run any risk of doing her harm.'

A step was heard. Alice came softly in and
said to Dr. Brooke, ' She knows you are here,
and is delighted.'

You did not tell her that her child was
here too ? '

Sto, I dared not. She is in such a very
critical state, and the other doctor frightened
me so.'

Excited ? ' said Dr. Brooke.

Oh no, not at all excited ; she is quite
composed ; but I am terribly afraid she is gradually
sinking.'

Olive,' said Dr. Brooke, ' as soon as it is
safe, she shall be told you are in the house.
Stay here, dear child ; one of us will soon come
back to you.'

Olive heard them go upstairs, heard them
moving in the room above her, and pictured
the scene as they took their places by the bedside.
. How she longed to be there too I and jot
how she trembled at the thought of going I

Time passed. All was quiet, and she sat wondering
low long it would be before some one
would come and tell her that there was a hope
that her mother's life might be spared. Was
this to be the end of her own struggle to gain
a knowledge which she had hoped would
make her poor mother's last years so happy ?
Was there to be no quiet time when they two
might dwell together in love and peace? It
could not be possible that this was to be all.
As her uncle had said, such a blow would be
too cruel! Still Ohve was left alone, but,
though anxious beyond measure, she yet dared
to rely on what seemed to her absolutely necessary
to her sense of justice  her conviction that
her mother would be spared to her for a few
years longer.

At last Dr. Brooke came downstairs  he
was alone. He walked slowly across the room
to Olive. She never moved, but fixed her
swimming eyes on his to read the sense of
the words which she was about to hear. He
took her hand, and said, 'I have given her
something which has done her good  she
looks so beautiful and happy.'

But will she get better ? '

He shook his head. ' When you see her,
which will be very soon, I don't think you will
feel so unhappy about losing her. She has no
wish to hive.'

Won't she wish to live when she knows
she will have me with her ? '

Dear Olive, her mind is not always in a
sound state. She has suffered so much that it
is now almost permanently unsettled. When
she is not herself, she has fears and fancies, and
is any thing but happy. You would be wretched
if you saw her then.'

I would bear it. I could make my own
happiness consist in watching over her.'

I know you could, but it would not be
good for you, and I do not think that it is a
thing to wish for. She has no fear of death.
She knows that she could not have lived long,
even if she had escaped her present illness ; and
now that the two things for which she has
prayed for nearly twenty years have been
granted her, she will feel still more at rest.'

Olive's distress was so great that she could
not speak. She turned her sorrowful eyes 



quirinal on her uncle, who said, ' For years,
whenever her mid was sane, she has prayed to
be allowed to see you before she died  that was
one wish ; the other was to know that when she
was dead you would be able to respect her
memory. Both these prayers have been
granted.'

But I had so hoped that we should Altogether
! ' sobbed Olive.

Do not wish for it ; she is conscious of her
mental affliction, and suffers great agony when
she feels that another attack is coming on  she
would have other attacks.*

Olive sighed heavily, and in that sigh renounced
the future for which she had worked
and hoped so long. What was best for her
mother was what should be best for herself
also. ' Have you told her that Mary Gardiner
has confessed ? ' said she.

Yes ; she took the news calmly. She seems
to have felt certain that the truth would at last
be made known. You see, she knew her own
innocence ; the shock came to her when it undoubted
 not when it was established.'

May I go to her ? '

VOL. HI. K

Her sister is now talking to her about you
she means to offer to send for you. You
must go into the room as if you had been
brought from some little distance, and must on
no account show much emotion.'

Oh, I can be quite calm,' said Olive, grasping
her uncle's hand as she spoke, with a force
which showed that she was struggling with the
strongest excitement.

Eemember that her life hangs by a thread.'

How long will she live ? ' asked Olive,
trying to be very brave.

Perhaps four or five hours  perhaps ten or
twelve.'

'Not more?'

No, not more.'

Ohve was perfectly silent and still, but Dr.
Brooke could see the intensity of her suffering.
When at last she spoke, she said, ' Do not be
afraid to let me see her. I shall try to use well
the short time which is left me.'

Dr. Brooke kissed her, and at the same
moment saw Alice in the doorway. She had
come to take Ohve to her mother. ' Remember
! ' said he, and then she went. Her heart

I

beat almost audibly, but she walked steadily
upstairs.

Your uncle has cautioned you ? ' whispered
Alice.

Yes ; have no fear,' was Ohve's answer, and
in another minute the door was opened, and she
could see into the room where the mother who
had filled her entire mind ever since she had
first heard of her existence was now lying at
the point of death. A soft lamp-hight filled the
room, but Olive saw nothing but the bed and a
figure whose outlines were lost in the shadow
of a large white curtain. Alice led Ohve
across the room, made her sit down by the bed,
and gently placed her hand in her mother's.
Ohve was about to speak, and to speak impulsively,
for this took her by surprise, but Alice
put a finger on her hips and said, ' Answer what
she says, don't speak.'

My darling, I have you at last ! ' said her
mother softly. ' I always knew I should see you.
When the doctor said I must die  not Eichard
Brooke ; the other doctor, I mean  I was glad,
for I knew for certain that, however soon death
might come, you would come stlil sooner ! '
z 2

She has always told me that,' said Alice.
Nothing ever made her waver from that  she
always declared that she was convinced she
should see you before she went.'

Yes,' said the sick woman ; ' but, Alice,
don't you talk  I have had you with me for
years  I want to hear my child speak now.
Say something, Olive.'

Olive tenderly clasped the hand which held
hers and said, ' May I not see you, mother ?
The curtain hides you from me. Do not think
because I have been away from you all this
time, that I have not loved you. I have loved
you ever since I first discovered you were my
mother.'

A delighted smile passed over Alice's face
as she stooped to kiss Olive for this speech, then
she drew back the curtain, and Olive saw the
well-remembered face. It was still beautiful and
noble, but painfully thin and wan. She saw her
mother's burning brown eyes fixed on hers, and
watched a happy smile as it flitted over her lips.
Then she lay still, looking at Olive with perfect,
but quiet happiness. Now that she had her
child by her side, she wanted nothing more.

At last she said, ' Let me have a little more
light, Alice ; I want to see her more clearly.
Stand up, my child, and let me see you
better.'

Alice lighted some candles and held them
close to Olive. Most eagerly the poor mother
strained her already somewhat dim eyes to scan
every feature of that beloved face. ' You are
very pretty, darling,' she murmured. ' I wonder
whether I was ever at all like you ! I can
hardly believe now that there ever was a time
when I was young and happy.'

I am not very happy, mother  ' began
Olive, but her aunt checked her. Her mother
had not heard her words. ' My darling,' said
she, ' I pray that your life may be happy.
Never act in opposition to what your heart tells
you is right. That is what I was made to do 
that brought me to this ; ' and she began to weep
most piteously.

Olive stooped and kissed her, saying, ' I
will always remember your words, mother.'
Alice drew her gently back from her mother,
who was embracing her convulsively, and would
soon have been in a passion of grief and tears.

Don't speak for a while,' said Alice ; ' your
mother must rest. She is too weak to talk anymore
just yet.'

Weak ! when I have my child with me !
The sight of her has made me strong. I feel
quite a different woman ! Besides, there are
some things which must be spoken. Olive, you
said a few minutes since that you had loved me
ever since you heard of my existence  then,
the person who told you of that did not tell you
of the dreadful accusation which had been
brought against me ? '

Yes, she did ! ' exclaimed Olive, with a
vehemence which she regretted immediately ;
but, mother, as soon as I recollected that if
I had a mother she must be that lady whom I
had once seen, I did not believe what she said.
You know I saw you when you came to the
window in Kensington Square  I saw your face
then, and knew what this wicked woman said
must be false.'

Alice again laid a warning hand on Olive's
shoulder.

Be quiet, Alice,' cried the poor mother.
'You think that I shall excite myself; you

forget how good it is for me to hear what she
is saying ! You trusted me, my daring ; tell
me so again.'

I did. I never once doubted you after I
had recovered the shock sufficiently to be able
to think.'

A perfectly radiant smile illuminated the
poor mother's face, and for some time she lay
quite still, enraptured with Olive's words.
At last she said, 'What you tell me, dear,
makes me so happy that it seems to repay
me for all that I have gone through ; say it
again. You are sure you did not doubt
me?'

I am quite sure.'

Your father did,' said she in a voice of
intense pain. ' He doubted me, and he knew
me better than you did ; that was what hurt
me so cruelly ; I had never once deceived him ;
no, not in the smallest matter.'

Mother, he was not with you ; he was
deceived by those two wicked women.'

She was about to say something in answer
to this, but Alice interrupted her and turned
her thoughts in another direction by saying,

Dorothy, think of your child, how delightful it
is to know that she trusted you.'

She pressed Ove's hand. ' My child said
she, ' you are with me at last ! I have suffered
agonies from the fear that, if ever I did meet
you face to face, you would turn away from me.
You were torn from me before you could even
speak plainly ! I could have borne everything if
they had left me my child. There is no justice
in laws which allow a mother to be deprived of a
child whom she loves.'

Don't think of that,' said Olive. ' Mother,
I should never have turned away from you ! I
remember so well, when I saw you, how your
face attracted me ! I thought of you for months,
and longed to see you again.'

I saw Aer, standing by your side ! She
might be with you, but not I ! She was always
there to tell you I was a wretch unworthy of
your love,' cried Dorothy Brooke wildly.

Don't speak of her ! Don't think of her !
You have heard that her falsehood can be
proved ; that the evidence is in our hands ? '

It must never be used,' said her mother.
No one must ever know what Mary Deanham

has told you. They thought me shameless and
wicked when I was alive and their opinion
could hurt me ; let them think of me as they
will when I am dead and gone.'

But my father must know ! ' said Olive.

Xo, Olive, no ! Your father must never
be told. He failed me when he ought to have
trusted me. I was tried and condemned when
I was just recovering from a long illness. You
don't know all that I had to bear. I was ill in
body and mind after my dear brother's terrible
death, but I was recovering, and was nearly
myself again, when this trial came, and the
sentence was given against me. That drove
me quite mad  that, and their taking you away
from me ! No, your father believed the worst
then, and made me lose my reason. I do not
wish ]him ever to hear my name again ! '

But those who are most guilty  the women
who lied to him  cannot be punished without
his knowing.'

Leave them unpunished. Let your father
end his days believing what he beeves now 
I do not Lavish him to suffer any pain which I
can spare him.'

Mother, I am thinking of you ! It is a
duty to see that the injustice which has been
done you is made known.'

It is a duty which I will have left undone.
I have learnt what suffering and sorrow are I
have no pity for the woman who ruined my
happiness, but I have for my husband and for
his children. They are innocent. If the
shame is removed from me, it will fall with
tenfold strength on them. Olive, my poor life
is over : can you bear to live and let its sad
story be told by them as they will ? '

I can do so, of course, but it would be
very wrong if I did.'

Not wrong, if I wish it. Let your father
die in peace. Let his children live without
despising and hating their mother  let their
wretched mother go her way. Your uncle
will be your father, I hope, and his house your
home. You will marry some day, dear. Tell
your husband my unhappy story. Show him
Hannah Deanham's letters. Then, if he insists
on having this made public, obey him ; but if
possible, let it be buried with me.'

Mother, you are very noble and forgiving ! '

Oil no, I do not wish your fatliei' and
those poor children of his to go through life
branded with '

'My dear friend, you are talking far too
much,' said Dr. Brooke, who, unperceived by
all, had entered the room and joined the group
by the bedside.

I will talk no more ; but, Olive, you must
give me that promise.'

I do promise,' said Olive. ' Mother, you
may trust me.'

Eichard,' said the sick woman, ' do not
look so grave. No one was ever hurt by too
much happiness ! I am no worse than I was.'

He was feeling her thin thread of pulse,
and thinking that it would be very difficult for
anyone to be much worse. She was only kept
alive at all by her joy in the sight of her child.
You must at any rate rest a little while,' said
he. ' Listen to this one thing which I wish to
say to you, Dorothy, and then rest in silence.
I want you to know that this dear child of
yours is dear to me also. She has been to meas
my own child ever since she was taken from
your keeping. For your sake I should have

done everything in my power to make her
happy, but, besides that, my wife and I love
her for herself.' Olive's hand, which he had
drawn away from her mother's, softly stole to
his as she heard these words. He continued,
Have no anxiety about her future  her home
is with us. We thought it right to yield her
up to the care of her stepmother on her father's
demand. Henceforth we recognise no authority
but yours  if you give her to us, she is
ours.'

Eichard,' said a faint voice from the bed,
you know how to make a poor mother close
her eyes in peace. I do give her to you.'

Olive,' said Dr. Brooke, ' kiss your mother
and come with me downstairs. Don't be
afraid, Dorothy; neither she nor I will leave
you.' He drew Olive gently away. ' It must
be,' said he, and then he added apologetically,
only for half an hour or so : she shall come
back to you then.'

He made Olive rest on the sofa, he sat
down near her, and never had she seen him so
full of thought. After some time he crept
quietly upstairs ; his patient was asleep. He

told Olive this, and added, ' Your poor aunt
has been sitting up every night for a fortnight
! '

May I go and sit with my mother and let
my aunt have some sleep ? '

Better not,' said Dr. Brooke, gravely, and
Olive felt that he said so because he knew that
the weary watcher's labours would soon be
ended. After a while he himself fell asleep.
How grey and anxious his face looked, but how
noble its beauty was ! Olive watched him
uneasily for some time. She feared that he
was not strong enough to bear such a fatiguing
day as this without injury. He might have
slept for an hour or more, when she heard a
slight sound upstairs. Her heart sickened with
fear. Had death, the dread visitor whom her
uncle seemed to look for with such certainty,
actually come? So far as she herself could
judge, there seemed to be no reason why her
mother should not live for weeks. Her voice
was strong, her eyes were bright, her mind
was clear, and yet Dr. Brooke had never
wavered, but had said she must die in an hour
or two. She again heard steps and sounds in

the room above. She could not bear the suspense
any longer. She had not the heart to
disturb her uncle, but stole noiselessly upstairs,
and opened her mother's door. Alice was sitting
by the bed where Olive had sat before.
She was reading aloud to her sister, and her voice
was firm and unfaltering. The sick woman
was lying perfectly still, with an expression
of the most complete contentment on her face ;
her eyes were calmly fixed on the reader : she
seemed to be entirely engrossed by what she
was listening to. Olive went nearer to the bed.
Her mother just smiled at her and murmured,
I have asked your aunt to read that beautiful
service to me  I thought I should like to hear
it. Sit down and listen too, darling  that is,
unless you would prefer to read, instead of
listening.'

Olive felt a large lump rise in her throat 
it seemed almost to choke her. Not being
able to speak, she shook her head emphatically ;
she could not have read those words to her own
dying mother even though they conveyed, in
the words of an Apostle, the Divine assurance
of a Love which would conquer death and of
a Life which was beyond the grave.

Then go on, Alice dear,' said Dorothy
Brooke gently; 'oh, stay; sit a little on one side,
and let me have my darling child close to me.'

Alice gave a chair to Olive, took another,
and then went on reading. The extreme beauty
and solemnity of the words which she heard
touched Olive with awe, but the horror of hearing
her mother spoken of as one who was dead
already, told on her with such force that she
could neither look up nor move. All her
strength had to be given to self-restraint. Each
moment she felt as if she must scream aloud, or
sob, while in reality she must not even suffer
the hand which was now holding her mother's
to tremble, or twitch, or show any sign of strong
emotion, lest she should do her harm. Each
moment she felt as if she could bear this strain
no longer, but must clutch the hand she held
and cry, 'No! Do not listen to that terrible
reading ! Do not die ! Stay with me, mother,
do ! ' And still the reading went on, and Alice's
sweet sad voice made it all the more hard to
bear. After a while she read some chapters
from St. John's Gospel, and these had the effect
of tranquillizing the poor girl who was listening.
As Alice read, Olive became calmer, and

gradually her heart became attuned to a noble
renunciation of her own selfish wishes and submission
to God's will.

Her mother lay quite still. She had never
uttered one word except a murmured assent
when Alice had once said, ' Shall I go on reading,
dear?' Once she herself had grasped
Olive's hand with a sudden convulsive force,
but now for a long time the reading had been
uninterrupted.

She is asleep,' said Olive at length, fearing
that Alice was taxing her strength too much by
reading so long.

That's a good thing,' replied Alice ; ' but I
think I had better go on. Sometimes people
miss the voice which has sent them to sleep,
and waken up directly it stops.' So she read a
while longer, and then closed her book and satin
silence. This made no difference to the
sleeper, whose head lay peacefully on the
pillow, and whose lips were parted in a happy
half-smile. Gradually the faint daylight came
stealing in, and turned the mellow lamp-light
into a chill cold grey. And still these two sat
by the bedside, fearing to move or speak or

make any sound : Alice with her handsome
face white and worn with fatigue, but with her
eyes resting lovingly on Olive, and Olive with
her head bent down. More light came, and
soon the life of the street began. These two
anxious women had for many hours forgotten
that the world had any other inhabitants than
those who were now assembled together in that
one room.

Had we not better put some more clothes
on the bed ? ' whispered Olive. ' I think we
ought ; her hand begins to feel very chilly.'

A look of fear came into Alice's eyes  she
softly drew back the curtain which hid her
sister from her sight. She felt her hand and
her forehead, and started back. Her sister was
dead. That one sudden and eager pressure of
the hand which Olive had felt such a long time
before, was her mother's last farewell !

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

Eos. Oh, how full of briars is this working-day world !

As You Like It.

What would become of all the exhibitions
which contribute to make the month of May
such a pleasure and such a toil, if artists still
adhered to the pious old custom of steeping
their brushes in holy water all through Lent ?
Lent is the very busiest season of the artistic
year ; and if the painters' faces are pale, it is
not with fasting, but with hard work ; or if
they do fast, it is because they can barely
spare time to snatch a mouthful of food. Those
who are familiar with the secret history of
many of the most admired pictures can tell of
the hairbreadth escapes from total ruin they
have more than once undergone : how, on the
very last day before ' sending in,' Brown

painted out the face of his principal figure 
the agonized heroine of the last new heartrending
farewell scene  and how he had to
sit up the whole night to put her in again,
with deeper throes of anguish, and a better-painted
complexion ; while Jones performed
the friendly office of dabbing in a background
for him ; and Thompson tore the picture from
them at last, and carried it down to Burlington
House on the top of a common street-cab, justin
time for the final skirmish of porters.

All over London, men were toiling and
half-killing themselves with excitement as the
fatal day for ' sending in ' drew nearer. Morrison
was as busy and as anxious as the rest.
The winter had been dark and foggy, and his
mind had been too unsettled for work. He
was trying to finish his big picture and another
from Eastwick Ista, and for once was grateful
when Ambergreen, who always had plenty of
time at his disposal, came idly in with ample
leisure to criticise. He laughed at Morrison's
nervousness and said, ' I never get into such a
state about my pictures as you seem to do 
not a bit of it. When I have finished a thing,

it is finished, and I put it on one side and trouble
myself no more about it

But my things never do seem quite right,
and I can't help working at them so long as I
see I can make them better.'

More's the pity, both for them and you !
What a fortune you might make, Morrison, if
you would learn to let well alone, and if you
would but addict yourself entirely to sunsets !
No one can touch you when it comes to putting
a fine sunset on the canvas. I can't think how
you contrive to do it. It's not as if you were
a poetical fellow.'

Morrison declined this provocation to an
argument, and said meekly, ' I don't think I dodo
it. How I wish the splendid picture one
wants to paint would let itself be done ! I
sometimes feel as if at length I was going to do
something a little more like the thing I am
trying for than usual, and then nothing comes
of it. That way a picture has of turning out,
at the last, just like every other picture, is one
of the cruellest things in art.

Nonsense ! You are no judge of your
own work. Besides, after all, look how you

are getting on ! No young fellow of my acquaintance
is half so well thought of. Why,
whose work is this ? ' And as Ambergreen
spoke he took up a little drawing of the harbour
at St. Hilda's, by Eosamond Keithley  >
the very picture she was painting when Morrison
first saw her.

'Oh, that's a lady's work. What do you
think of it ? Tell me, and then I will tell you
something.'

That you are engaged to her, I suppose ? '
said Ambergreen coolly, not for one moment
imagining that there could be a word of truth
in his assertion, for he looked on getting married
as throwing away every prospect of advancement,
worldly and intellectual, and could
not believe that his friend would be so foolish.
'She can draw,' said Ambergreen.

'Yes, and I am engaged to her. If you
wait a little longer you will see her. She is
coming here to try to finish that for the Ellesmere.
I have persuaded her to send in.'

There is some very good work in it. But
I would not marry her if I were you. I should
always imagine her intentions were not honourable.

I mean, she is probably much more fond
of drawing than of anything else, and is only
marrying you because you can help her to get
on. That's it you may be sure. You smile as
if you felt quite safe, but you may depend on it
that is her reason. I wish you would not
marry her  I hate my friends marrying ; and
now there's you, and Miss Brooke, and Mr.
Ardrossan  three of you  at one go ! '

Miss Brooke ! Is she going to be married ?
But to whom ? '

To Mr. Ardrossan, of course ; so there's
no more picture buying to be looked for from
him. I should not have minded marrying Miss
Brooke myself; that is, if ever I could bring
myself to marry anybody. I used to think she
did rather like me ; but then, you see, that
aunt looked such a dragon that I never dared
to flirt at all.'

Is she really going to marry Mr. Andros
' inquired Morrison.

Yes, really  at least, I am told so. I wish
she was not, don't you ? Good-bye. Be happy
about your pictures. They are sure to be
great successes. I never saw such a lucky



young fellow as you are. Everything goes
right with you. You will pass through life
without knowing what disappointment is ! At
least, it looks like it. Good-bye again.'

Morrison turned aside to hide this face,
which, as he well knew, wore an expression
somewhat at variance with this statement. The
pang he felt on hearing Ambergreen's news was
not long-lived. He was not quite cured of his
love for Olive  he wondered sometimes whether
he ever should be  but he had a very sincere
affection for Eose Keithley, and in half an hour
she and her aunt, Mrs. Ullathorne, would be
with him.

Dr. Ullathorne, at the East End, had a very
comfortable house, but there was scarcely a
room in it which he could call his own. All
day long it was besieged by people who 'just
wanted to speak to him for five minutes.' It
was astounding how many there were in his
parish who were in need of money and advice,
and time to state their wishes ; and each person's
necessity was still more pressing than that
of the one who had gone before him. One
room, easy of access from the door, was set

apart for these visitors, but it frequently overflowed
all over the house, and no room could
be pronounced absolutely safe from intrusion,
not even a poor shabby little old nursery where
Eosamond Keithley, now on a visit to the
good Rector of St. Dionysius's, had of late setup
her easel, in the vain hope of quiet. Morrison
had seen her futile attempts to secure a
corner to work in, and had invited her to come
and paint in his studio ; and while Ambergreen
was talking to him she was on her way there.
To-day her companion was not Mrs. Ullathorne,
but Miss Lettice Brooke, who had come from
Austerfield to pay a visit in Sussex, and was
spending a week in Kensington Square to break
the journey. Poor lady, old as she was, she
found her sister Mary still treated her as a baby,
and was not sorry when the Bethnal Green
UUathornes made her go there for a couple
of days. This morning she was in a flutter
of excitement at being asked to go with Eose
Keithley to Mr. Morrison's studio. ' You are
sure it is right ? ' she asked. ' I want to go,
of course, but I don't want to do anything very
wrong.'

How can it be very wrong ? It is not
wrong at all.'

Well, ray dear, you know him, and I will
do as you like, but they do tell such stories of
artists and their goings-on. They are most of
them very wicked, I. fancy ; but I'll go if you
wish it. You say you want Mr. Morrison's
advice about your picture. It does seem so
funny to think of his growing up to be an
authority on any subject ! I remember him
quite a little boy, with no sense whatever,
except what my niece Olive put into his head.'

That must have been a very long time ago,'
cried Eosamond, full of dutiful respect for her
lover's intellect.

Well, it was. I don't know that he was
stupider than other boys  they are all stupid 
but still I do think he was a particularly dull
boy. Not that I ever said much to him.'

Then how do you know he was so dull ? '
said Eose, much piqued. But Miss Lettice was
quite unaware that she was saying anything
wrong.

I'm sure 1 don't know how I do know, my
memory is so bad ; but I am certain he was dull.'

Eose laughed merrily, and said, ' At any
rate, lie is not dull now. He is so clever and
interesting. He will like to see you. He lias
talked to me about Austerfield.'

I can't think what he finds to admire in
the place, or what Olive does either  I expect
they liked it because they had all their own
way when they were there.'

He has never mentioned your niece Olive
to me,' said Eose. ' Was he much at your
house ? '

At our house ! ' gasped Miss Lettice, who,
being country-bred, was a great stickler for the
due observance of divinely-appointed divisions
of classes. ' No, he never entered our doors ;
but he was a good-looking, well-behaved little
fellow, and somehow or other Olive and he
were always together.'

How old were they then ? ' asked Rosamond,
with one faint tremor of uneasiness.

Oh, babies ; children, at any rate. It is
years ago now. I don't suppose he even remembers
her name. She thinks he does, but I
dare say he has forgotten he ever saw her.'

Here we are ! ' said Eosamond.

Miss Lettice puckered up her lips in surprise.
She had not expected to find Mr. Morrison
in such good quarters. In her estimation
the tasteless decorations with which the architect
had enlivened the exterior of the house
denoted circumstances of ease, if not of splendour.


I won't tell him your name. Let us see if
he remembers you.'

I bring with me an old acquaintance of
yours,' said Eose, who had not the slightest conception
of the heights from which Miss Lettice
had looked down on ' Willie,' together with all
the other ' village people.' ' Can you guess
who it is ? '

Morrison looked at the handsome old lady,
who, dressed in her pretty maidenly greys, now
stood smiling so benevolently on him. ' Of
course I can,' he cried warmly. ' Do you think
I could ever forget an Austerfield face ? It is
Miss Lettice Brooke.'

You really remember me ! You have not
seen me for nearly a dozen years ! ' cried Miss
Lettice ; and then, tactless as usual, she exclaimed,
' My dear Eosamond, if I were you I

should be jealous of those very vivid recollections
of Mr. Morrison's. My niece Ohve is just
the same. Whenever she sees me she quite
tears me down with questions about a hundred
different things at Austeriield that I have no
interest in.'

Morrison looked up eagerly. Miss Lettice
continued : ' Iow, in reality, it is as poor a
place as you could wish to see. There's not a
decent house in the whole village, except our
own and the clergyman's  all the rest are mere
shabby little cottages.'

Eose Keithley, who knew that Morrison had
lived there, and that his origin had been rather
humble, blushed deeply at this, and looked
pleadingly at Miss Lettice, who ran on with
great composure and velocity for some minutes
longer in the same strain.

We must not talk,' interposed Eosamond,
taking off her bonnet and retreating to a distant
table. ' I am only allowed to come hereon
condition that I don't speak.' ' That's what
I call a particularly plain hint,' thought she ;
almost too plain.'

But Miss Lettice only said, ' Quite right.

Of course work must be paramount here, and
I am not much of a talker.'

Will you have a book, Miss Lettice ? ' said
Eose, full of pity for Morrison. ' Do let me
get you a book.'

Yes, you may give me a book, but I am
not much of a reader. You see, I forget what
I have read ten minutes after I have shut the
book ; so what's the use of my reading ? No,
I'll sit here and think. I won't speak, Mr.
Morrison. Don't be afraid ; I quite know the
importance of silence.' There was a second's
pause, and then she added, ' You see, I sometimes
stay with my sister-in-law in Harley
Street, and when I am there she occasionally,
as a great favour, lets me sit with her in her
study when she is writing, and that makes me
know so well how important it is to be absolutely
quiet and silent when in the company of
anyone who is doing head-work. She is dreadfully
particular  she won't be disturbed.
When you are with her you must not move or
speak, or read a newspaper, or do almost anything.
You see it won't do to be noisy, for she
is thinking hard all the time. I am sure it is

very good of her to sit working away so patiently
for so many hours, all for the sake of
writing books that one forgets ten minutes after
one has read them. Now, isn't it, Mr. Morrison,
very good ? '

He made a civil speech, and she responded
by another ; after which, having been silent for
five minutes, she said, ' I think you have been
at Austerfield lately, Mr. Morrison ? '

Yes, I went over from St. Hilda's  I had
a fancy to see the old place again.'

I heard you had been there. It was so
odd, too,  I went to see my brother in Harley
Street the other day -just to spend the day,
you know, for my real visit there is to be paid
when I return from Sussex  that will be in
about three weeks' time, for I go there tomorrow,
and am to stay three weeks. Well,
I went to my brother Eichard's house, and I
found my niece Miss Olive very ill  altogether
ill, and out of spirits. I don't know what had
happened to her, or whether anything had
happened, but she looked pale and thin and
unhappy, and was sitting in her own room
painting a few twigs of some bush or other 

Ugly things they were, I assure you, Mr. Morrison
 and I said to her, " Ohve, why don't
you get some pretty flowers, or fruit, or something
from Covent Garden to copy? What's
the use of wasting your time on such common
rubbish as that, when Covent Garden is so
near ?" And she said, " Don't be so disrespectful
to flowers from your own native place ; " and I
cried out, " My own native place ! How did
they come here ? " And she asked me if I had
heard of your being there, and said she was
sure you had been, for some one had sent hera
whole hamperful of wild flowers, and she
felt certain that it could have been no one but
you ; so I said you had been there, for, you
see, just by accident I had heard of your sleeping
one night at " The Four Alls," and that made
me able to tell her ; and you can't think how
delighted she looked when she found she had
guessed right.'

Morrison bent his head down over his picture.
He did not answer this long speech. He
dared not speak  he scarcely dared to thinly.
Eose glanced at him, wondering whether Miss
Lettice's talk was irritating him beyond endurance,

or whether his emotion was caused by
something else. What could it mean ?

Miss Lettice did not notice anything  not
even that no one had replied to her speech.
Eose saw her beginning to speak again, and
trembled. It was terrible that Morrison should
be so disturbed when each moment was so
precious ! She would go  she wished she had
not come  it was too cruel that he should be
thus tormented by Miss Lettice on the very eve
of ' sending in.'

You have not seen my niece, I think, since
you were both children ? ' persisted the unconscious
Miss Lettice. She thought she was
behaving like a kind Christian gentlewoman by
being so ready to meet Morrison on terms of
equality and talk to him so freely.

Oh, yes, I have ; I saw her in Scotland in
October, and I met her at a party in Harley
Street on the 6th of February.'

Dear me ! ' exclaimed Miss Lettice, ' what
a memory you have for dates ; I wish I had, I
am sure. Can you remember the dates of your
parties as well as that, Eose ? '

Eose Keithley started and did some injury

to her drawing, for the 6 th of February was
the evening which Morrison had promised to
spend in her company, and he had broken that
engagement, apparently for the sake of seeing
Miss Ohve Brooke. ' What have I done ? ' she
cried, noticing that she had dropped a brush-full
of colour on a delicate part of her sky.

Take care, Eose,' said Morrison, who was
quick to hear her low cry of distress and go to
the rescue. ' Be cautious how you work, dear;
you have no time now for anything but very
careful finishing touches.' His voice was so
kind and his offered assistance so prompt, that
his Eose took heart again and looked lovingly
n his face.

Don't forget my song,' cried he. His song
was a wicked parody on a very pretty poem of
George Macdonald's : 

Alas ! how easily things go wrong !
A touch too much, or a tint too strong,
And there follows a mess and no end of pain.
And the drawing is never the same again !

He soon repaired the damage and went
back to his work, but Eose soon found herself
thinking of the real last line of this verse, 'And

VOL. III. M

life is never the same again ! ' She could not
drive it out of her mind. Suppose one of those
little things which make all go wrong so easily,
had happened now ?

Miss Lettice did not leave her much time
for thought  she very soon exclaimed, ' Mr.
Morrison, I wonder you do not go often to my
sister-in-law's Tuesday evening parties ; she is
fond of artists and authors, and would be delighted
to see you.'

Thank you, I go out so little,' he replied,
and again became thoughtful, for she had reminded
him of his last Tuesday evening in Harley
Street. Finding everyone so unsociable. Miss
Lettice began to read, and was actually silent
for nearly an hour. Morrison painted, but
his mind was in a turmoil. Miss Lettice's
stray words stirred up so many thoughts of all
kinds. Ambergreen said Olive was engaged to
Mr. Ardrossan! Miss Lettice said she was
eager for news of Austerfield and delighted
with his flowers. Did she care for him a little?
She could scarcely think of Austerfield without
thinking of him at the same time. She certainly
thought of Austerfield. But what did it signify

what her thoughts were, when she was engaged
to Mr. Ardrossan and he to Eosamond Keithley ?
But was she engaged to Mr. Ardrossan ? He
turned to Miss Lettice, and said, ' I hear that
Miss Ove Brooke is engaged to Mr. Ardrossan
I hope I do not take a- liberty in speaking of
it, and congratulating you.'

Engaged to Mr. Ardrossan  indeed she is
not ! ' cried Miss Lettice, who considered Ohve
nearly twenty years too young to think of
marrying. ' I am certain she is not. I should
have been informed of it if she were.'

Morrison drew a long breath of relief, and
then his eye fell on Eosamond Keithley's dutiful
head, which was bent down over her work.
He saw, by a tinge of deeper colour in her
cheek than was usual, that she was either
anxious about what she was doing or something
else, and hastily went to hei side and whispered,
Is there anything I can do for you, dear ?
Don't forget that 1 take quite as much interest
in your work now as in my own.'

On this she looked so happy that he could
not but be happy too.

Eemember me kindly to Miss Ohve Brooke

M 2

when you see her,' said he when he bade Miss
Lettice good-bye.

Oh, but I am afraid I shall not see her
until I return from Sussex.'

Then when you write to her, perhaps.'

I am not much of a writer,' said she. ' I
don't suppose I shall have any opportunity of
giving your message for three weeks  you
know I stay three weeks in Sussex  I told
you.'

Yes, I know, but my message is of no
consequence whatever

i

CHAPTER XL.

"We lose a life in every friend we lose,

And every death is painful but the last.  Landor.

It was a dull and dismal afternoon. The
air was laden with moisture, which fell in
almost imperceptibly fine rain. The streets were
muddy and wretched-looking. Olive was in her
room dressing to go to her mother's funeral.
Much as she dreaded the pain of witnessing
such a ceremony, it would have hurt her still
more to stay away. Her heart swelled when
she thought how small would be the number
of those who would care to be present. Her
mother had expressed a wish that she should
wear no mourning, but on this one day she felt
she must put on a black dress. Dr. Brooke
was to be there, and Alice, and, as Ohve believed,
no one else ; but when she went downstairs her
aunt came forward and said, ' Dear child, I am

going with you.' This mark of kindness
touched Olive deeply  there was sacrifice as
well as love in it.

Your Aunt Alice will go with us,' said Dr.
Brooke. ' We must call for her.'

How beautiful she is ! ' whispered Mrs.
Brooke when she saw Alice Ainsley slowly
walking down the narrow strip of garden.
She has just the most beautiful kind of a face
a woman can have. Don't you think so,
Eichard?'

I don't know, I am sure, dear,' he said
absently.

Arrived at the Cemetery, the scanty band
of mourners arranged themselves and followed
the coffin to the grave. Ohve felt in a waking-dream.
She kept repeating to herself her
mother's words as transmitted by Alice : ' Tell
my dear Olive not to grieve over my death.
Make her understand how I long for rest. Tell
her that I shall perhaps be more with her now
than I have ever been before, and that she must
not pain me by the sight of any sorrow.' Olive
felt as if she were under an obligation to shed no
tears and think no repining thoughts. She had

brought with her all her Austerfield primroses
they were fresh and bright as ever. She
liked the idea of placing these, which to her
mind were the most precious flowers she could
procure, in her mother's grave. When the
service was over she laid them on the coffin,
and then caught hold of her uncle's arm and
said, ' Now, take me away.' But just as he was
leading her away, she turned and saw Alice
Ainsley standing gazing into the grave with a
look in her face which plainly revealed that
she was feeling that she had nothing left to live
for. Ever since her girlhood Alice had lived
for one object only. She had entirely devoted
herself to the care of the sister who during all
this time had been so dependent on her, but
who now needed no more help from anyone.
Whither was she now to turn ? Who needed her
love or care ? Where was she to look for companionship
? Olive saw the sense of desolation
which was overmastering her, and stole gently
to her side, slipped her hand in hers, and said,
Aunt Alice, love me a little, and let me be
with you sometimes. May I go home with you
to-day ? '

A pleased smile broke over Alice's face ;
she kept Olive's hand in hers, and they all left
the Cemetery. Silently they seated themselves
in the carriage, and now with one consent all
the party looked at Alice as the one who
most needed pity. She was quite unaware of
their gaze. She sat looking out of the window
and very full of thought. Just as they were
approaching the house where she was living she
turned to the Doctor and exclaimed, ' Eichard
I beg your pardon  Dr. Brooke, how very
pale you are ! '

It is nothing,' said Mrs. Brooke. ' He is
a little tired. He often looks like that now 
he has not recovered his long illness.'

You have been ill ? ' said Alice  the
deepest concern overspread her face, and for
the first time she looked at him with undivided
attention.

Oh, no, I am quite well,' said he. He
disliked to have anything said about his health.

'Pray take care of yourself,' said Alice
earnestly, and then no more was said until the
carriage stopped at her door.

Olive says she will stay with me till the

evening,' said she. ' It is very kind of her.' I
have a great many things to arrange, and she
will help me. I hardly know what to do with
myself  I think I shall go abroad.'

Dr. Brooke seemed uneasy, and said, ' Whatever
you decide on, Alice, I hope you understand
that you have friends in Harley Street
who will be glad to be of service to you.'

Yes, do understand that, dear,' cried Mrs.
Brooke with a warmth which siu-prised her
husband. ' I will come to see you in the morning
 if I may ? '

In the morning ! ' His wife, who was so
tenacious of her time during the morning, was
offering to pay this early visit ! Dr. Brooke
looked at Selina in amazement. She was now
saying to Alice, ' Do not make any very decided
arrangements about the future until I have seen
you  please do not, for I have something to
propose to you.'

She surely does not imagine that Alice is
very poor, and wants to engage her as amanuensis
? ' thought he.

He was still more sm-prised in the evening,
for Selina was dressed for dinner and in the

drawing-room even before the gong sounded, j
Such a thing had not happened for years. A

smile passed over his face when he saw her, |

but it was not so much in commendation of her i

punctuality as because something in her manner i

pleased him so much. He could not help :
thinking of the time when he first knew her 

when she was a girl in her own home  and all 

through dinner he was struck by her gentle 

though fulness. j

After tea he usually depended on an easy i

chair and an amusing book for the comfort of i

his evening, for, though Mrs. Brooke's day's \

work was nominally ended at seven, she inva- |

riably stole away to dwell in fond criticism on ]

the inky pages produced in the morning. This =
evening he established himself in a corner as

usual ; but, happening after a while to look up, !

he was surprised to find he was not alone  |

his wife was sitting staring into the fire with \

folded hands and very earnest eyes. ' I thought j

you had gone off to your work,' said he. j

I am never going to write again,' she re |

plied sadly. |

Oil, poor wife, you have had a bad review !
Don't let that vex you too much.'

She shook her head. ' It's a great deal
worse than that. In fact, the reviews one
gives oneself always are worse than those one
gets from other people. Eichard, I have been
a very bad ife to you.'

My dear Selina, no. I can't let you say
that.'

Yes, I have, and you have been so good
and kind and patient ! I am ashamed to think
of it.'

Think of what ? What can you mean ? '

Of your forbearance  of how I must have
tried you.'

What can make you talk in this way.
Selina ? I am not making any complaint. It
is the very last thing I had it in my mind to do
to-night.'

But I am making a complaint against myself.
I seem all at once to see how much you
have had to bear, Eichard. I have tried you
to the uttermost, I know, and under the circumstances
I can't imagine how you have borne
it so well.'

My dear Selina, you are distressing yourself
without a cause. What can you be thinking
of ? " Under the circumstances "  under
what circumstances ? ' And the Doctor looked
as he felt  honestly puzzled.

'I'll tell you what I mean. Perhaps the
only good you have ever got from my writing-novels
has come to you to-day. My novel-writing
has made me understand something
which I should never have understood without
it. Eichard, I was not your first love ; I
thought I was  until this morning. Your first
love was Alice Ainsley. Don't interrupt me.
Let me tell you the story as I imagine it  you
shall tell me if I am right. Eichard, my dear
husband, if I did not love you with all my heart
if I did not know you loved me, and feel
grateful to you for doing so, and trust in you
entirely, I could not speak to you as I am doing
now.'

They were now sitting side by side. He
took her hand in his and waited to hear what
she wished to say. ' Eichard, dear, I saw it all
this morning. Chesterfield married Dorothy
Ainsley  you were engaged to Alice. If

Dorothy was as beautiful and noble-looking a
woman as Alice is, it mast have been hard to
find two such sisters anywhere. Chesterfield's
trouble brought on your trouble  that's how I
imagine it all  and when he divorced his poor
wife, your eno-asrement with Alice was broken
off too. I see it all. She would not marry
into a family which had treated her sister so
ill  or she wished to devote herself to her, or
you did not uphold Dorothy's innocence heartily
enough  there are so many ways in which it
might have happened. It is painful to think of
it, but have I not guessed the truth ? '

Yes,' said he,  you have. Alice and I
were to have been married. No time was fixed,
for I had my way to make, but we were engaged,
and then that miserable trial came, and
everything was at an end between us.'

I can't think how you could ever care forme
after having been engaged to Alice. You
did love me, I think, but she is so superior 
she is one in a thousand.'

So are you. I loved her most truly ; but,
Sehna, I loved you too, and, dear, need I say
that I love you still ? '

Mrs. Brooke had never been so happy in .
her life. ' In spite of all I have done to make ;
you unhap  no, uncomfortable ? ' '

What is that ? Of course I love you. I \
may sometimes have wished you would give \
more of your time to your house and children, j
but I have never ceased to feel that you were |
a high-minded, noble woman. There is no |
smallness of mind in you, Selina.' |

I hope not,' replied Mrs. Brooke humbly. \
She was afraid she did not quite deserve this ]
high praise. j

I am sure of it. To-day in the Cemetery |
you somehow or other guessed that there \
had been a time when poor Alice Ainsley j
was more to me than anyone else in the 1
world, and you at once became doubly kind to 
her.' \

How could I be otherwise ? I felt she was i
a thousand times more worthy of you than I. j
I looked at you both, and thought how you ;
must have suffered. I was ashamed when I i
saw how Httle I had done to make you happy '
with me. Eichard, I will never write another '.
page. We will have the children home  it is i

time they left school. Let us have them with
us and be happy together.'

We will have them back,' said Dr. Brooke ;
but as to yom giving up your writing, I exact
no such sacrifice. Do it at stated times ; don't
give it up altogether.'

We will think about that  you know I am
not one of those who think that the half is
better than the whole. Besides, I want to
please you.'

To please me, dear? Don't class me with
those who maintain that a woman ought to
have no higher ambition than to make her
husband comfortable.'

Oh, no ! ' cried Mrs. Brooke ; and then she
bethought herself and added, ' At least, I don't
know  perhaps I ought to say that that was
just what I did imagine you always felt ought
to be the object of my life.'

My dear wife, you have lived with me all
these years, and don't know me better than
that ! No one likes to see women take a high
place in the world better than I do, but not at
the expense of plain duties. People must be
faithful over the little things which are committed

to their charge before they even attempt
to meddle with great ones.'

But I always hoped to earn so much money
by writing that I could pay for having everything
done for you in a way far superior to
anything I could have done. And after all I
have never made any money worth mentioning.
I suppose the fact is my books are not clever.'
And the poor lady sighed. ' Well,' she added,
you have been very good to me, Eichard, and
I am going to write no more  that is, unless
this present book is so successful that it really
books as if I ought to go on. There is the bell.
It is Ohve. Let us finish this conversation
Before she comes. Eichard, I want to ask you
if I may invite Alice Ainsley to come and stay
with us  live with us, if she likes  she is terribly
alone ? '

You are too good, Selina. Do as you
think best.'

The bell did not announce Olive's arrival,
but that of a letter for Dr. Brooke. He read
it with a curious smile on his face ; then without
speaking thrust it into his pocket  she had not
the heart to tell his wife its contents that night,

but perhaps it is not quite fair to withhold them
from our readers. It was a note from Mrs.
Ullathorne, and Ijegan thus : 

KiCHAED Brooke,  I have to-day read your wife's novel.
You may tell her so, and that I recognise my own portrait, and
am extremely grateful to her for the pains which she has bestowed
on it. You may also inform her that before I went
abroad last year I made my will, and as you and she have never
worried me with your attentions, I left 20,000Z. to you, the same
sum to her, and 10,000Z. to each of your children ; but as I find
you have a wife so richly endowed with genius that she will have
no difficulty in providing for your family without any assistance
from me, I have burnt that will, and shall make a new one tomorrow
morning, in which this very unnecessary bequest will not

appear.

May Ullathorne.

Does that letter vex you in any way,
dear?' inquired Mrs. Brooke, when she saw
that her husband had suddenly become rather
silent.

'Yes  no. It would have vexed me terribly
if we had not had this talk together. I
defy anything to vex me now.'

VOL. III. N

CHAPTEE XLI.

Thus do all traitors ;
If their purgation did consist in words.
They are as innocent as grace itself :
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.

As Tou Like It.

How was the so-called Lady Brooke to be
treated? This was the question which the
Brookes of Harley Street lost no time in putting
to themselves after the real Lady Brooke's
death and the disclosures which had preceded
it. Dr. Brooke had a burning desire to introduce
her to the notice of the nearest policeman ;
but being reminded that that was incompatible
with letting her go her way in peace, he declared
that he would never see or speak to her
again. But, after all, his part was an easy one
to play, for she had no wish whatever to see
him or to speak to him, and never did either
when it was possible to avoid it. Mrs. Brooke

felt an equal repugnance to her ; and as for
Olive she loathed the very thought of her. At
the same time, all three considered themselves
bound to let her depart quietly  that is, without
any open scandal.

Two days after Ohve's flight from Warbeck
Street Lady Brooke called in Harley Street,
and was told that the whole family was out.
This she did not believe, and was furious at
being denied admittance. On this particular
day she had not meant to stay long with Ohve ;
she had others to see as well as her undutiful
stepdaughter, and more crops of dragons' teeth
to sow than one. Being tinned away from
Dr. Brooke's door, she stopped a cab and began
her rounds by paying a visit to Mrs. Ulla-those.


Mary,' said she, ' you have been kinder tome
than any of Chesterfield's sisters  I shall
always be grateful to you. I wish you would
come out to India. The climate would suit
you admirably, if you only stayed six months
or so.'

Mrs. Ullathorne shook her head. ' I don't
expect to be long here. I have much to do
s2

and to think of  my house must be set in
order.'

Oh, I am so sorry if anything is \T:ong,'
cried Lady Brooke, who was not conversant
with phraseology of this kind. ' It is Olive's
fault if there is ; she said she would look after
everything.'

Mrs. Ullathorne growled, but did not condescend
to explain. Lady Brooke continued :
Mary, what do you think of Selina encouraging
Olive to set me at defiance ? '

She is a novel writing nuisance ! '

She does not seem to care for the feelings
of any of her relations. Have you seen her last
novel ? They say it is rather better than usual.'

Bah ! I know the sort of tiling it will be.
In one of Dr. Johnson's reviews he says of some
book or other, " A man might write reams of
such stuff, if he would only abandon his mind
to it," and he would have said the same of
Selina's rubbish.'

Then you have not read it ? ' persisted
Lady Brooke, who found it harder than she
expected to stir up Mrs. UUathorne to the desired
point of interest.

I  oh dear, no ; I certainly have not read
it,' replied that lady gruffly. She was one of
those persons who think that they settle the
claims of any book by saying, ' I have not read
it.' 'In fact, I read no novels. I leave that
to poor empty-headed Sister Lettice  she is
never without a novel in her hands. But why
do you g9 on asking me if I have read it ? Is
there anything in it I ought to see ? Has she
been putting us all in it ? '

They say so. I have not read it myself,
but I have it here and soon shall,' said Lady
Brooke, tapping the first volume of ' ,'
of which she had devoured every word
I expect to find a portrait of myself in it when
I do.'

It's of no consequence what she does ; she
is welcome to put me into every book she
writes, if she chooses. I am sure I shall never
trouble myself to read any of them.'

Oh, she wouldn't put you in  she wouldn't
take such a liberty.'

I feel quite indifferent,' replied Mrs. Ulla-thorn,
whose curiosity was now piqued to the
uttermost. ' People must describe somebody.

I dare say my character will do as well for lier
as another.'

Lady Brooke chatted a while longer and
then left, but she purposely forgot to take with
her the first volume of ' Cross-and-Fifty,' and
she had not been gone five minutes before Mrs.
Ullathorne discovered it and began to read it
with all the spectacle-power at her command.
Lady Brooke then went to Mrs. Raymond's.
'I have come to have a little talk with you,
Esther,' said she. ' Olive has left my lodgings
and gone to Harley Street. I don't know why.
Don't you think that Eichard and Selina are
behaving very ill.'

They are odd people,' replied Mrs. Raymond,
shrugging her shoulders.

I must see Olive before I leave England 
about the Filoselle business, you know ; but if
they won't let me do so, will you undertake to
talk to her about it? The woman has been
asking rather disagreeable questions  she is not
so civil as she ought to be.'

She is a fool ! She must have heard about
Mr. Ardrossan.'

Yes, of course ; but she is very pertinacious.

Someone has told her that Ohve is gong back
to India with me ; so I suppose she thought it
was off.'

If it were not for the Ardrossan affair,
Ohve could not do better than go there  she
would be snapped up directly.'

She would not go there. She hates me ;
and then Chesterfield is so strange about her.
He sits and thinks of that dreadful divorce business
until he is quite low-spirited. That's why I
have given myself so much trouble about Olive
I can't bear to see him look so dismal. He
would be happier if she were married. She is
a sullen, disagreeable girl  at least, she is so
now. I should have thought she might have
been very happy with me. I could have gone
on with her, I am shute, if she would have
allowed me. I could live with anyone who
was at all nice to me.'

This was perfectly true. Lady Brooke could
have spent years in Olive's company untroubled
by any thought of the injury which she had
done her. Lady Brooke never suffered from
remorse  shad no compunctious visiting of any
kind, unless, as was rarely the case, she saw

that she had missed some good which had once
been within her grasp.

Is Ohve sullen ? Well, I'll talk to her.'

'Do. Make her understand her position
thoroughly. It really is necessary.'

Indeed it is,' said Mrs. Raymond gravely.
It would not do to have it known and talked
about.'

Lady Brooke waited until the last day of
her stay in England before she again tried to
see Olive. When she arrived in Harley Street,
Mrs. Brooke, who had been on guard for days
to keep her away from Olive, had just gone out
on business. Dr. Brooke too was out. John
had been told not to allow Lady Brooke to
enter the house, but Lady Brooke would take
no denial.

Miss Brooke is in her own room lying
down, you say, and can see no one ! She can't
object to see her own mother. If anything is
said about your letting me go upstairs to her,
I'll take all the blame on myself. I must see
her.' I am surprised that anyone should think of
trying to prevent me ! ' And without listening
to another word, and nimble as a girl of

seventeen, lie ran upstairs and made her way
into Olive's room.

Olive was not lying down or ill, but sitting
by the window, trying to copy the colour of
Willie's sycamore-buds. They were in a 
glass before her, and both her work itself
and the thoughts to which it gave rise were very
pleasant to her.

Olive,' said Lady Brooke, as she burst
thus suddenly in on her, ' I have come to see
you, because tomorrow I leave England.'

Olive rose and grasped the edge of the
table to support herself. Then she stood looking
at her stepmother with as much calmness
as she could muster, but with an expression of
intense dismay and dislike.

'Ohve,' said Lady Brooke gently, 'you
seem to have some very strong feeling against
me. I have none against you. I do not like
to go to another quarter of the world with the
impression that something is amiss between us.
I know girls often dislike their stepmothers,
but still I have not been such an unkind one to
you that you need wish not to see me before I
go. Now, have I ? *

Olive was silent; she was struggling with
emotions of the most painful kind, which, in
obedience to her mother's wish, she was desirous
to conceal.

You left my lodgings suddenly more thana
week ago  you have twice left my house in
the same way without telling me  once you
say it was to avoid seeing a gentleman. You
can't plead that excuse this time, for you went
away with one. It was very odd of you to do
that ; but be odd if you like  only don't be so
remarkably unfriendly. Why have you shut
yourself up here and done your best not to seeme?'


I  I thought it was better not ' Olive

began.

'Why better not? I have given up the
idea of gaining your affection, but I have done
nothing to make it impossible for you to stay
under the same roof with me for the two or
three days which had to pass before I left.
Think how strange it must seem to everyone !
Ohve, your father's wife has at any rate a right
to be treated with the appearance of respect.'

'Don't speak of this to me,' cried Olive,

I

putting the greatest constraint on herself  Do
not make me say '

But I want you to say all that you have
to say  I want to know how I am to answer
your father when he asks for an explanation of
your treatment of me.'

Tell him what .you like  only leave me
alone.'

Leave you alone ! You talk in a way
which I don't understand.'

Leave me,' said Olive faintly ; 'leave me, I
beg of you  I must not try to make you
understand.'

On this Lady Brooke's pale face flushed
rose-red, and she exclaimed, ' Do you order me
to leave the room, Olive ? ' Then she changed
her manner and said, almost tearfully, ' I give
you my solemn word of honour that I have
tried to be a good mother to you.'

The words which she heard, the restraint
which she was compelled to put on herself, the
terrible excitement of the scene, were almost
more than Olive could endure ; she sank into
her chair and hid her face in her hands. She
was almost beside herself with pain. Lady

Brooke's eyes were fixed on her ; she saw how
she was suffering, and said kindly, ' Dear child,
I have only come to say good-bye  I am going
back to your father. What am I to say to
him?'

'What you think right,' replied Olive
very bitterly.

That's not what I meant. Of course I
will try to say what is right,' said Lady Brooke
simply, as if she were quite too good and high-minded
to do otherwise. ' I mean to make light
of the little differences which have arisen between
us. Indeed, I daresay before I reach
India I shall have forgotten them ; but that's
not what I wanted to says  I meant that I
should like to be able to tell him that you were
about to make a happy marriage.'

Olive looked up with flashing eyes, and the
expression of her face was so proudly indignant
that Lady Brooke cried, ' You surely don't object
to my taking an interest in you ? '

I do. I will not have it ! Leave me and
my future, and all that concerns me, entirely
alone ! '

Ohve, you ought to be ashamed of yourself

! You know that I came back to England
entirely on your account. I did not want you
to feel yourself an outcast.'

I do not know it or believe it. I did not
feel an outcast before you came. Besides, in
my family, the outcasts have been the noblest
people.'

'Taunts, sneers, endless reproaches  that's
what I have from you, Olive. Well, I will go
away, knowing that I have done my very best
to be a good mother to you.'

" Mother " ! Don't use the word ! No one
can be so good to a child as her own mother 
you should have left me mine ! '

I should have left you yours ! I had
nothing to do with your losing her. Olive, at
last you drive me to speak openly  it will save
pain in the end. You are making yourself
miserable by believing that letter which Hannah
Deanham wrote to you. I know you are.
She wrote to you, and she wrote to me too.
She is a person who will tell lies on any side, if
she is but well paid.'
jP> ' I paid her nothing,' said Olive very bitterly.


I dare say not ; you perhaps had not the 
opportunity of seeing her, but you believe the
low gossip she put in her letter. You are in 
influenced against me by a servant  and yet you |
know what she hinted at is untrue. The law;
proved it to be so. Your poor mother  I do ;
not wish to pain you by speaking ill of her  |
was very giddy and unprincipled.' |

Ohve was goaded to the last pitch of endue
ranee. For a moment she looked almost I
piteously in Lady Brooke's face. The words
Leave me, I entreat you, or you will drive me i
to say what I ought not,' were on her lips ; but :
Lady Brooke's face was hard as iron, and she I
added, ' Her conduct nearly killed your father.' \

Olive sprang to her feet, opened a drawer j
in a cabinet, took out a small packet, and i
cried, ' Don't repeat that lie again ! You have ;
said it very often to me. Whatever was done ;
to hurt my father was done by you  you have
neither heart nor conscience. This parcel is
yours  take it and go, and never come near
me again I ' And as Olive spoke she pushed i
towards Lady Brooke a small packet  not for
worlds would she have encountered the risk of I

touching her hand by giving it otherwise.
Outside the parcel was written, ' Part of fifty-pounds
of Lady Brooke's money left by Hannah
Deanham for the use of her sister Mary, now
residing at 33 Mulberry Street, Bethnal Green,
which Mary Gardiner desires to return, now
that she knows that it was earned by a crime.'

Olive had not intended to give this to Lady
Brooke herself  she had meant to send it to
her ; hence this long explanation outside.
Lady Brooke started when she read it, and
turned very pale. Then she looked almost
piteously at Olive and said, ' You have seen
Mary Gardiner ? She is in England ! '

I have seen her, and heard her story, and
have in my possession proof that it is true.'

It is not true, and no such proof can exist.
Hannah Deanham's word is as much to be
relied on as her sister's.'

I have four letters of Hannah Deanham's,
in each of which she owns that she committed
perjury by your instigation.'

Tell me what you intend to do ? ' said
Lady Brooke, after a dismayed pause. Her
voice faltered  she seemed to acknowledge

that her future was in Olive's power. Olive j
shook her head  words failed her. !

Olive,' pleaded Lady Brooke, ' your father |
and I have lived very happily together for i
nearly twenty years. It seems a terrible thing |

to ruin the rest of his life  he is an old man :

\
now.

'Do not talk to me of your happiness,' 
cried Olive wildly. ' How dare you ? If J
you have lived happily with him you must be |
a wretch to be able to do 'it. Did you never i
think of the wife whom he loved so much be \
fore you married him, and of the state to which i
you had brought her ? ' I

Of course I did. But most of her un j
happiness was caused by her brother ; you 
must know that. She never even pretended to
love her husband.' ]

She tried to love him ; she would have :;
loved him in the end. She faithfully did her j
duty to him. She obeyed him when he told \
her to forbid Mr. Lilburn to come to the house ; j
and if she did not love him quite as much as I
she ought to have done, she must have loved 1
her child. You were her greatest friend, and \

you robbed her of her husband and home and
child. You took from her her good name, and
left her nothing  not even her reason! For
twenty years she lived, sometimes quite mad
with misery, always half beside herself. I have
been told that her one cry, day and night, used
to be, " Let me have my child back." '

'You can see her now,' pleaded Lady
Brooke ; ' she has got you back now.'

She is dead ! '

Dead ! ' echoed Lady Brooke.

Yes, dead ; she died a few hours after she
saw me. She had lived in poverty and disgrace
not allowed to see her own child. She knew
that if ever I heard her name at all, it would
be as that of a woman too wicked to be loved.'

If she is dead,' cried Lady Brooke eagerly
' I did not know it, of course, or I would not
have spoken as I did  but if she is dead, you
have no reason to do such a cruel thing as
making Mary Gardiner's story public would be.
Why should you disturb our happiness, Olive ?
No one will be the better for it if you do.'

Olive's lip curled. There was no making
this woman think of anyone but herself. I

VOL. III.

don't envy your happiness,' she said most
bitterly, ' but I am not going to disturb it. My
mother's last words were that she did not wish
the truth to be made known. She said that
my father had chosen to doubt her when, if he
had trusted her, his doing so would have made
all the difference, and that it was nothing to
her now if he changed his opinion. She did
not want him to be miserable, or your children
to be branded with disgrace. I shall obey her
wishes  you have nothing to fear from me.'

It was very noble of her, and very sensible
too. Olive, one thing I must beg of you.'

Ask nothing of me  say no more ; go
back to my father and be happy if you can.
I have told you what my mother said. I have
nothing more to say to you. I only wish you
would go out of my sight.'

Lady Brooke was thoroughly uncomfortable.
The strongest feeling of her nature was a desire
to be at ease in mind and body. She
earnestly wished that Olive would say just one
word or two which would recur to her memory
when she recalled this scene, and enable her to
feel that, terrible as the interview had been, it

had on the whole ended better than could have
been expected. She did not wish to remember
that she had been driven forth with shame and
contempt. She looked to see if there was any
sign of Ohve softening. She could see none.
'I leave England tomorrow. We shall probably
never meet again said she, thinking that
this might lead to the comforting sentence
being spoken.

Meet again ! ' cried Olive. ' I will never
see you again  how dare you speak of such a
thing, after what you have done ? ' And as she
spoke her gaze was unflinching.

Lady Brooke could not meet it  she hesitated
and almost trembled. How was she to
leave the room ? ' You have behaved very
well ' she began.

Hush ! ' cried Olive. ' I will listen to no
more, certainly not to thanks. I have obeyed
my mother, that is all. Leave me at once, if
you please ; I can bear no more of this.'

Lady Brooke turned, and, with her head
bent down in as much of shame as she was
capable of feeling, crept out of the room and
left the house.



CHAPTEE XLII.

Widow. And now you know my .
A very mean meaning.

Taming of the Shrew.

Bos. Patience once more, whiles our compact is urged.

As You lAke It.

Mrs. Raymond had at least a dozen engagements
for a certain April afternoon, and
there was not one of them which did not seem
to promise a very fair anoint of enjoyment ;
but she left them all unfulfilled, and went to
Harley Street to speak to her niece Olive on a
matter of importance. ' I don't like having todo
this,' thought she. 'I don't like it at all,
but I have no choice. Olive can't be such a
fool as to want any advice from me about Mr.
Ardrossan, but I must keep my promise.' She
asked if Mrs. Brooke was at home. For years,
when she had put that question, John had
muttered sulkily. ' She is in the study, ma'am.

She told me to say she was engaged To this
she had as invariably responded, ' Oh, very
well ; say I've called.' For Mrs. Raymond,
once a great beauty, and still, as she hoped, a
very fascinating woman, didn't see why she
need show any anxiety to see her inky-fingered
and absorbed sister-in-law, aimless her sister-in-law
had an equal desire to see her.

To-day John looked alert and said, 'Mrs.
Brooke is at home ; she's in the drawing-room.'

'Alone?'

Yes, alone, ma'am.'

'Writing?'

Oh dear, no, ma'am.'

Mrs. Raymond could not believe her senses.
Selma,' said she, ' I want to talk to you ; but
first tell me if you have brought Mary UUa-
thorne round ? '

No.'

 Have you tried ? '

Yes, Eichard went, and said he was very
sorry I had made one of my characters seem to
be rather like her by seizing on two or three of
her little peculiarities '

You don't mean that you allowed him to

own that any part of that character was drawn
from her ? '

I could not help doing that  you see, it
was.'

You should have sworn that you drew it
from me. You should have sworn anything,
to put her in a good-humour again.'

Mrs. Brooke looked indignant. ' I am not
going to tell untruths for the sake of her
money.'

I would tell mountains of untruths for it.
What would I not say and swear?  I would
even maintain that she was sweet-tempered.
She will never forgive you.'

It is vexing, but it can't be helped. I am
sorry, for Eichard's sake. Esther, what a run
that book would have if only we could put a
flyleaf into it saying, " This book has cost the
author a legacy of 70,000/. " ! I really do
think a generous public would hasten to make
good the loss. However, I shall always be
grieved to think that I have hurt her feelings.'

Never mind her feelings. She has none.
I don't care a pin for that part of the matter.
I am thinking of poor Eichard  sit must be a

fearful disappointment to him. Vincent would
have killed me if I had done such a thing.
Selina, tell me about Olive and Mr. Ardrossan.
She will accept him, I suppose ? '

Mr. Ardrossan ! Is he likely to propose
to her?'

Mrs. Raymond stared  this vernal simplicity,
this mental opacity, was quite beyond
her power of comprehension.

'He certainly has been a great deal here
lately, and we are glad to see him. He comes
every other day.'

Well, what does that look like ? '

I have never remarked that he was fond of
Ohve.'

Will she accept him if he offers to her ? '
interrupted Mrs. Raymond impatiently.

But he is far too old for her  he must be
twenty years older than she is.'

If he were forty years older, it would still
be a splendid match for her ! Selina, do show
a little more worldly wisdom. Ill go and
speak to Ohve. Where is she ? '

She went to her niece. She approached
the subject daintily and delicately ; but as soon

as Olive caught a glimpse of her meaning, she
was up in arms in a moment, and cried, ' Aunt
Esther, you are as bad as my stepmother !
That is just the way in which she used to talk
to me as soon as any gentleman had said three
or four civil things to me.'

Quite right too. Only a part of a mother's
duty. Olive dear, your stepmother, as you
call her, is gone, and nothing I say can make
any difference now ; but I must say that you
treated that poor woman very ill. Let me
speak  don't be vexed with me. I am your
aunt, and have known you since you were a
baby  you really treated her cruelly. Forgive
me, but I must for once remind you that the
circumstances were peculiar ; and if, when she
came to England, she had left you to yourself,
and not taken you everywhere with her, as she
did, no one could have blamed her. She was
not bound to feel much interest in you, but she
did. She devoted herself to you all the time
she was here, and never once left you for any
pleasant visit of her own.'

'She was afraid to leave me. She was
keeping watch to see that certain persons of

whom she was much afraid did not approach
me. She was in constant terror lest they should
tell me things which it was important for her
to conceal.'

Oh, nonsense, Olive ! your Aunt Selina has
infected you with her love of imagining plots
for novels.'

'Aunt Esther, this is a painful subject, but
my stepmother has gone, and you may as well
know the truth about her. It is a secret
which I am forbidden to make public. It must
not be known beyond our own family. Go to
Aunt Selina and ask her to tell you what we
know about my stepmother. I would rather
you should hear it from her than from me.'

Mrs. Raymond began to be afraid that Olive
was mad. More than once lately she had seen
signs of great mental excitement in her, and
had feared that there was a danger of her being
attacked by her mother's terrible malady. She
looked anxiously at her now, and crept away
to Mrs. Brooke, not really believing that there
was anything to hear, but wishful to pacify
Olive.

After some time she returned, looking pale

and nervous, and as if she had received a shock
she would not readily forget. She stooped and
kissed Olive, and said, ' Dear child, your aunts
have always loved you ; they must now love
you more than ever. What I have heard
makes me still more anxious to say what I
came to say. Don't be vexed with me if I try
to gather from you what you: intentions are
with respect to Mr. Ardrossan. It is so important
that you should have a home of your
own.'

Is it not rather indelicate to begin to settle
what you will do about a gentleman who has
never so much as shown that he has any intention
of asking you to marry him ? ' cried Olive.

Oh, it is constantly done,' said Mrs. Raymond.
' You must have an idea what you will
do.'

He is very kind to me, but he does not
care for me in the way you seem to think.'

I know better. Olive, he is a charming
man  so handsome, so intellectual, so destine
! '

Yes,' said Olive warmly ; ' he really is.'

Oh, I see it is all right. I was siu-e you

could not be blind to his attractions. I need
say no more.'

I am not blind to his attractions. I like
him immensely, and it would be very ungrateful
if I didn't ; but I must tell you that, supposing
such a very unlikely thhig happened as that he
should propose to me, I should not accept
him.'

'But that's absurd  so absurd that I can't
believe it. Have you any reason for refusing
him?'

No very special reason,' replied Olive, looking
rather confused.

Then I may as well tell you that there is
a very special reason why you ought to accept
him  why you must accept him, indeed. If
you refuse him, a very terrible thing will
happen  there will be a fearful scandal.'

Olive looked, as she felt, intensely curious,
but waited for her aunt to continue ; and Mrs.
Raymond slowly and painfully revealed to her
that when Lady Brooke came to England she
had felt her resources entirely inadequate to
clothing a beautiful girl like herself for fashionable
society, where endless changes of costume

and the most lavish expenditure are required,
and she had adopted a plan not by any means
unheard of in the set to which she belonged.
She had taken her to Madame Filoselle  a lady
who, as it was well known  though such things
are not spoken of  was in the habit of taking
six young ladies under her protection, as it
were, and clothing them entirely, from their
first entrance into society until their marriage.
This she always did with the utmost liberality
and secresy, but, of course, under certain conditions.
The first was that the young lady
herself was so beautiful and attractive in every
way that it was absolutely certain that she
would be sought in marriage by men of rank
and wealth, if only she was enabled by Madame
Filoselle's assistance to appear to advantage in
the society which they frequented. Then, too,
she was to make this good marriage within a
reasonable time. Thirdly, Madame Filoselle's
bill  which would naturally be much larger
because of her having to wait for the money,
and because the transaction involved some risk
was to be paid by the bride soon after she
had secured her rich husband ; after which.

common gratitude would demand that she should
continue to order all her dresses from the
arbiter of her fate  Madame Filoselle. Mrs.
Raymond told this to Olive in her own words and
with many assurances that it was a common
enough arrangement. People did not talk of
such things, of course, but everyone of a certain
class knew quite well that they were done.
Olive heard her in silence and the deepest
shame. Her head sank lower and lower, her
hands were clasped in helpless dismay ; she felt
as if she could not find words to speak. Her
aunt was pleased to see that she recognised
the gravity of the situation ; she was certain
that she would make no difficulty now. Mr.
Ardrossan was the rock of safety to which she
would fly and cling  what else could she do ?

So that's the long and short of my story,'
said Mrs. Raymond. ' Don't let it vex you.
One is apt to be startled at a thing of this kind
on first hearing of it, but it seemed the kindest
and best arrangement we could make to secure
your happiness, and it's continually done.
There are always six girls in society who are
dressed this way. Women like Madame Filo-

selle have it in their power to do an immensity
of good. Many a pretty, nice girl, who has a
good home and husband of the right sort, would
be in a very different plight if she had not had
the good fortune to please Madame Filoselle
when taken to her. You are astonished, I see,'
added Mrs. Raymond, who was a little uneasy
at Olive's strange looks and silence. ' Of course
you must be. But you must own that Madame
Eiloselle has kept her part of the bargain most
handsomely. She grudges nothing when once
she takes a fancy and sees that her efforts will
be rewarded with success. She took to you
amazingly. She is beginning to be rather impatient,
though. You see, most of her young
ladies get something settled during their first
season. She is beginning to fidget a little, but
I am sure she will go on being nice for sometime
to come  quite long enough for you to do
all you want.'

All the blood in Olive's body seemed to
rush to her face as she said, ' So help me God,
I will never wear one thing that has come from
her house again ! '

You dislike the idea of the arrangement

SO much ? ' said Mrs. Raymond, without the
most remote conception of how Olive loathed
the ignominy to which she had so unconsciously
been pledged. 'I can readily imagine your
doing so. We won't speak of it again  only it
is right you should know of it  you would be
acting in the dark if you didn't. But don't
worry yourself, dear ; it will be all right. You
will marry Mr. Ardrossan  he is a charming
man, and, what is better still, he is as rich asa
Jew. She won't expect to be paid the whole
sum you owe her at once  you can give it to
her little by little, as you have it.'

How horrible ! How shameful ! Do you
mean that I am to steal it when I can do so
unobserved ? ' asked Olive bitterly. ' Aunt, we
may as well understand each other. If I loved
Mr. Ardrossan so much that I knew refusing
him actually meant dying, I would still refuse
Mm. After what you have told me, nothing
should ever induce me to accept him. You and
my stepmother made this bargain. I know
what kind of a woman she is, but I did think
that you would be worlds above having anything
to do with such degradation as this ! '

Olive, say what you like  it is natural  
you are taken by surprise. I won't be offended
with you. I must put the matter plainly before

you. You will be obliged to marry Mr. Ar :
dross, or someone else who is rich enough to

pay for all the things you have had. They \

must be paid for  that woman won't go with ;

out her money.' ;

I would die rather than do such an infamous
thing.' I

Nonsense, dear ! Just look what much i

i

worse things than this are done every day by \
people, and good people too, for the sake of

securing things they want. It's absurd to think '

so seriously of it. Depend upon it, Mr. Ar \

dross will be only too glad to pay your bill, \
and do anything else for you ; and if you have
scruples of conscience, you can make less money

do  for some time afterwards  until you have ;
made up the sum you cost him, you know,

dear. It's nothing, Ohve, I assure you ; I 

could tell you of friends of your own who are j

doing the very same thing, and whose feelings j

are quite as sensitive as yours can possibly be.' |

I have nothing to do with their feelings,' i

cried Olive indignantly. 'They ought to be
ashamed of themselves if they know what they
are doing ! Perhaps they have been betrayed
into it, as I have been. Poor things ! I pity
them when they are forced to reveal to their
husbands that they were dressed out to catch
the eye of rich men, and have only married
them for their money.'

" Only married them for their money " !
That is such nonsense, Olive  such romantic
nonsense ! In novels, of course, you read of
vulgar, uneducated, ugly, rich men, as opposed
to bewitchingly handsome and virtuous lowborn
geniuses of poor men ; but, so far as my
experience goes, men of the upper classes possess
every attraction a poor and virtuous genius can
do, plus the comfort of having money enough
to make life easy and delightful to the women
who are lucky enough to be fancied by them.
Have you, for instance, ever seen any poor manor
even any rich one, who, you could honestly
say, was more attractive than Mr. Ardrossan ? '

Olive blushed deeply and said, ' I think I
have.'

Each or poor ? '

VOL. III. p

'Poor, at least what you would call poor.'

And does lie admire you ? I mean, is he
likely to ask you to marry him ? '

Oh, I don't know  he might.'

Well, it would have been very silly to
accept this poor gentleman at any time, but
now it is quite out of the question. This
Filoselle business makes it impossible for you to
marry a poor man.'

On the contrary, it makes it impossible forme
to marry a rich one ! ' cried Olive with great
determination. 'I would rather die than do
that, now that I know what a shameful confession
I should have to make to him.'

Oh, nonsense ! the thing is done, and can't
be undone. You may as well make the confession
to a rich man who loves you, and who
can pay your bill without more effort than
signing a cheque implies. Your poor man
would have to be told all the same, and could
do nothing but look dismal ; and there's no
great help in that. Besides, the talk would be
dreadful  newspapers catch at good gossip Hke
this so eagerly  it would be placarded in every
paper in London.'

Olive looked shocked but immovable. ' I
shall pack up all the things I ever had from
Madame Filoselle,' cried she, ' and return them
to her. You can tell her that she need never
expect me to marry a rich man to pay her,
for I never shall.'

You inst be mad, Olive ! '

I don't care if I am. I had rather be
mad than bad, and I should have been a wretch
if I had made this agreement with Madame
FiloseUe.'

'Don't waste time in talk of that kind.
Don't you see that the woman must be paid ?
I don't know what you have had during the
twelve months that she has dressed you, but I
am sure her bill must be nearly a thousand
pounds  your court dress cost 70/. You say
you will return the things. That would only
enrage her ; it wouldn't save a penny. They
were supplied to you and worn by you, and
she will make you pay for them, whether you
return them or not.'

I will not have them here to remind me of
anything so disgraceful.'

You are not very polite, my dear. I told
p2

you the idea was partly mine. I am not usually
supposed to lend my countenance to disgraceful
things.' And as she spoke, Mrs.
Raymond looked at Olive for some admission
that the sanction which she had given to the
arrangement was a guarantee of its rightfulness
; but more than one of her aunt's bits of
doubtful morality was rankling in Olive's mind,
and she could give no such assurance. Mrs.
Raymond began to see that matters were
desperate, and to make moving appeals. They
too were useless. Then she said, ' If knowing
this prevents your marrying Mr. Ardrossan, I
shall never forgive myself.'

'It won't. If ever I refuse him, my refusal
won't be caused by what you have
said.'

Would you really have refused him if I
had not told you this ? '

I should.'

You don't like him ? '

I like him immensely.'

Then, why do such a foolish thing ? '

I need not give a reason for that,' said
Ohve.

You like someone else better ? '

Olive was silent, but silence amounted to a
confession.

Your poor man couldn't pay Madame
Filoselle ! ' cried Mrs. Raymond in dismay.

Of course not ; why should he ? '

Then, what are you going to do about
her ? '

Nothing at all ; I made no bargain with
her, and decline to be bound by one made by
other people. I thought my stepmother had
money from my father to pay for everything of
that kind. She always led me to think so. I
have fifty pounds of my own that Aunt Senna
put in the bank for me when I was a child ;
I will give you that to take to Madame Filo-
selle. Papa can pay the rest if he likes, but I
never can ; and if she makes a fuss or a scandal,
I shall tell the truth. Don't look so distressed,
Aunt Esther.'

What a disgrace I ' gasped Mrs. Raymond ;
what a fearful disgrace ! '

A little disgrace is better than a big one.
It would be much worse if I did as you wish,'
cried Olive warmly.

You are mad ; you are hopelessly wrongheaded
! I must get your other relations to
speak to you.' But on second thoughts Mrs.
Raymond found that this would only add to her
distress, for, unhappy lady ! to whom was she
to turn ? There was not one of Olive's relations
who would take a sensible view of the
subject. Selina would be worse than Olive ; Dr.
Brooke would be a thousand times worse than
Selina. He would be perfectly frantic at the
very idea of such a degrading transaction. Mrs.
UUathorne would be more indignant than
either, for such doings belonged to a world
which was quite beyond her ken. Besides, she
was in the vein for taking offence with her
relatives and cutting them out of her will.
She most certainly must not be told  any sacrifice
was better than that. ' Olive, promise me
not to speak of this to anyone just yet. I will
go to Madame Filoselle's and see if I can get her
to be reasonable. I must see if your uncle
Vincent can afford to pay her. I know he has
no spare money at present  he very seldom

has ; but to avert disgrace, perhaps ' And

the poor lady sighed. Then she added piteously,

' Perhaps, after all, you may marry
Lir. Ardrossan ? '

Never ! ' cried Olive ; ' I would not do such
a thing for the world.'

In the deepest distress and agitation Mrs.
Raymond took her departure. She was forced
to go and say a word or two to Mrs. Brooke
before she left the house.

Mrs. Brooke was reading  she had not had
leisure for such an enjoyment for years. She
looked up and said rather ruefully, 'After
nearly two hours of solid talk you must have
persuaded poor Olive into any marriage you
wish ; ' but Mrs. Raymond's looks showed no
sense of success ; all she said was, ' Olive is
very vexing; she says she likes Mr. Ar-dross
immensely, but will refuse him if he
offers. I am terribly disappointed.' ]airs.
Brooke looked quite composed. Her theory
was, that if a girl wanted to marry a inn,
she did marry him ; and if she didn't
want to marry him there was no more to be
said.

Seeing she was slow to express sympathy,
Mrs. Raymond cried indignantly, ' Sehna, you

are as bad as she is; you surely understand
what a splendid match it would be ? '

Not unless she wishes it.'

She ought to wish it. She is a stupid
goose ! This will be the second good marriage
she has missed. She will get a crooked stick at
last, and I for one shall be very glad. She deserves
to do so.'

Oh, no,' said Mrs. Brooke, who was certain
that Olive's views on marriage were much
more likely to be such as she herself could
sympathise with than those of her worldly-minded
sister-in-law. ' Oh, no, when Olive
marries she will choose well. Mr. Ardrossan
is far too old.'

Then she ought to have taken Sir John
Egerton  he was young enough.'

He was too stupid ; he had nothing in him.'

Then she ought to take Mr. Ardrossan ;
he is clever enough.'

Wait till the right man comes.'

There is a right man, only he is a wrong
one. There is someone whom she fancies. I
have made her own it. Do you know who he
can be ? '

I haven't the least idea ; not the least idea.'

'Nor have I,' said Mrs. Raymond. 'He
must be some very insignificant, stupid sort of
person, or some of us would have noticed him
talking to her. I am quite out of patience
with Olive  I never saw such a stupidly self-willed
girl.'

'I have great faith in Olive,' said Mrs.
Brooke calmly. ' Sir John Ellerton, with his
youth, and good looks, and health, and wealth,
was the golden casket which seemed the most
attractive of all to the common eye ; Mr.
Ardrossan, pale, refined, and learned, but
already falling into the rank of veterans, is the
silver casket ; but somewhere or other lurks
the humbler-looking but infinitely more precious
leaden casket, to which Olive only possesses
the true key. She will choose for herself
 she knows whom she can love and
reverence, and she won't give her love lightly.
I don't mind her being difficult to please, or
taking a poor man when she might have a rich
one ; I shall be quite content with the leaden
casket, if it holds what is best for her.'

Mrs. Raymond made a gesture of extreme

impatience. ' You are a novelist,' she said,  and
you think that quoting a poet or bringing in a
fanciful allusion settles a difficult question.
Gold and silver and leaden caskets have nothing
to do with what we are talking about. We
can't have Olive marrying a man who is notable
to keep her ! '

CHAPTEE XLIII.

Das Muss list hart.'  Iphigenia.

Mr. Ardrossan had reached the mature age of
forty-five, and had never until now been seriously
in love. His life had been one of activity
in many directions. His father was a merchant,
who had rather surprised the world by the
enormous fortune which he left behind him  a
fortune built up as silently and imperceptibly
as a coral reef, by sheer strength of organising
power, constantly exercised, and self-multiplied
through agencies scattered all over the world.
Large as the fortune was (and Lancashire, it is
well known, is not readily surprised in matters
of that kind nowadays), it was allowed on all
sides that it must have been well and honestly
made. Eobert Ardrossan's name was a synonym
for unblemished uprightness on any Exchange
where it was mentioned. It was rumoured

that the rule of caveat emptor was not in his
office held as one to be rigidly observed against
a fellow-trader ; in fact, that he preferred the
golden rule, and did his best to carry it out in
all his dealings. Of his three sons he had
settled that the eldest should succeed to his own
place in the business, and perhaps in due time
to the seat in Parliament which he himself had
gained too late in life to admit of his making
any figure there ; his second should be what he
wished to be  a soldier ; and the third should
also follow the bent of his wishes, which pointed
to a life of scholarly calm and philanthropic
effort. Almost from the first, however, it was
evident that this third son had inherited the
largest share of his father's ability. He was
the most quiet and assiduous of students ; well
liked at school and college, but with a strong
turn for visiting the poor, and with slightly
quixotic views about the duties attached to
wealth. Later on he might possibly have
buried himself in a Scotch manse with the little
world of a few Highland glens for his benevolent
activity to work upon, and the endless
world of philosophical inquiry tempting him to

ever active intellectual exercise, had not the
duties connected with the great town which was
the centre of his father's business, and the
terrible needs which he saw there, absorbed his
whole energy. Then came a great change.
His eldest brother was lost by a slip on an
Alpine glacier ; his soldier brother was carried
off by a fever in India ; and his father died
within a year of these misfortunes. John
Ardrossan was called to rule in his stead. He
did his new work well, but he never gave up
that which was dear to him before wealth and
position were thrust on him. As soon as he
could, he resigned his place in the firm in
favour of a cousin on the mother's side, and
then toiled at his various social reforms with
the enthusiasm of a Romney Leigh, but with
the keen shrewdness of a thorough man of the
world. Year after year he spent with heart
and brain absorbed in these things to the exclusion
of all else, and so it might have continued
to the end if he had not met Olive
Brooke. He admired her as he had never admired
any woman before. She was beautiful
with the beauty he most valued, intelligent,

docile, and in every way charming to him, and
lie felt that if he could prevail on her to be his
wife he had nothing left to wish for. He could
not well measure her feeling for himself. She
was unmistakably fond of him, but he sometimes
nay, often  feared that the affection she gave
him was only that of a child for a father. He
had, however, watched her narrowly, and had
ascertained that there was no one whom she
liked better, unless, perhaps, it was Morrison.
He was quite aware that Morrison loved her,
but believed she had refused him. He had
seen nothing of Morrison for some time  principally
because he had taken no steps to do so,
all his time having been divided between Bethnal
Green and Olive. He did not know that
Morrison was now engaged to another woman.
Olive, too, was ignorant of this, and was likely
to remain so until Miss Lettice either returned
to London or could screw herself up to the
task of writing a letter especially addressed to
Olive herself, for no one else was likely to care
for such a fragment of information. Since Mrs.
Brooke's renunciation of novel-writing, to
which she adhered religiously, Mr. Ardrossan

had lost many little opportunities which he had
hitherto enjoyed of seeing Olive alone. He
had, however, used his time in trying to read
her thoughts, and was, on the whole, hopeful.
On a fine afternoon at the very end of April he
ran briskly up certain stone stairs in Pall Mall,
for he expected to see Olive very soon after he
had got to the top of them. It was the private
view of the Old Water-colour Society, and he
knew that she was to be there. She was standing
by one of the screens nearest to the door, and
was wholly absorbed in the contemplation of a
drawing. Eager buyers brushed past her,
knots of connoisseurs pressed close, from whose
lips fell trippingly cant phrases of praise or
blame ; reviewers, note-book in hand, commented
on mysteries of execution. She heard
nothing, saw nothing but that bit of cunningly
stained paper ; and when he saw her eager interest,
Mr. Ardrossan, the envy of half the young
men in London, would willingly have resigned
all the great possessions which they coveted, to
change places with Morrison, whom they would
have despised, but who had that subtle something
men call genius, who had golden youth

and hope, and, more than all, the power of making
Olive's eyes glow thus with admiration.

She had changed her style of dress. Hitherto.
Mr. Ardrossan had always seen her in the
dainty but elaborate confections of Madame
Filoselle; but all Madame Filoselle's confections
had been sent back to her, and to-day
Olive wore a picturesque last century dress,
and he had never seen her look so well. It
was part of her wardrobe before Lady Brooke
came back from India, and its colour was a
strange dull red. Mrs. Brooke said that it was
something like strawberries-and-cream  Mrs.
Ullathorne, more prosaically, compared it to
brick-dust well mixed with lime. We leave the
discriminating reader to judge between the two
ladies. She wore a soft hat of the same material
and a tiny frilled cape, and just as she was
leaving the house her Aunt Selina had completed
her costume by thrusting a ' posy ' of Lent
lilies into her hand. Mr. Ardrossan approached
her, but still her mind was occupied with the
drawing on the screen before her. ' Look at
it,' said she ; ' it is Mr. Morrison's. Don't you
think it wonderfully good ? '

I think it splendid,' he answered warmly.
Everyone seems to think so. I hear
people saying such delightful things about it.
What would I not give to paint like that ! Mr.
Ardrossan, how is it that one man can paint a
picture like that, while others do such miserably
poor dull things ? '

He smiled, for he knew she could answer
this question she was putting quite as well ashe
could ; but he said, ' Besides brushes and
colours, and skill to use them, you must have
what Morrison has : intense love of the thing
he is trying to represent, and the mind of a
poet.'

And he used to be so unpoetical !  at least,
I used to think so  you know, we knew each
other when we were both children.'

Yes, he has told me so. Have you seen
him lately ? '

Oh, no, I never see him. He never comes
to my aunt's. She invites him, but he always
refuses.'

Mr. Ardrossan did not understand these two.
If Ohve had refused Morrison, as he half-thought
she had when last he saw them to-vol.

III. Q

gather, how could she expect him to come to
the house where she was ? And what did
this regret imply? He ventured on another
remark, hoping that she would say something
in answer to it which would help him to see his
way a little better. 'I met him in Harley
Street one Tuesday evening. I am sure you
remember his being there, don't you ?  you
had some talk then.'

Yes,' replied Olive, blushing slightly. ' We
talked of old times, when we knew each other,
but I am afraid I was not so nice to him as I
should have been if my head had not been so
full of other things. It was the time you were
helping me to find Mary Gardiner. I could
think of no one then but my poor mother.'

Ah, I know, I see, I understand,' said he,
and he feared he did understand. He was
silent, and during that silence was nerving himself
for the terrible effort which it would cost
him to do something which he began to see
would have to be done. ' Is Morrison here ? '
he at length asked.

Yes, my aunt said she saw him  with Dr.
XJUathorne and a young lady, I think she said.'

I have such good news for him ! I met
one of the Ellesmere Gallery people last night,
and made a point of asking about our friend's
pictures. They are splendidly hung and immensely
admired. They are both centres in the
large room.'

'You are going to tell him.' said Olive,
looking much delighted.

Yes. Would you like to be the bearer of
the good news ? '

Yes  no ; but I should like to see how he
looks when you tell him.'

No, you shall tell him, and I will be the
one to watch his looks,' said he, and he mentally
added, ' And yoiu-s too : after which, I think I
shall know my fate.' He shrank from the pain
of hearing her refuse him  he wished to keep
her as a friend. He had lived forty-and-five
years without her love ; and, if it needs must
be, had strength to go on to the end alone. He
set his fate on the result of the brief interview
which he was now arranging to witness from
afar. It must not be supposed that these two
had enjoyed an unmolested tete-astute. They
Had been interrupted a dozen times, but had
as

resisted all efforts to drag them away to distant
pictures by pointing to the dense crowd and
crying for mercy. Mr. Ardrossan looked round
for a seat for Olive, and just as lie had found
one, Morrison, Miss Keithley, and Dr. UUathorne
came towards the screen where they had been
standing so long. Eose Keithley was insisting
on seeing all Morrison's drawings. Ohve did
not see who was coming ; she had just turned
away to sit down, but before she could do so
was stopped by Mrs. Brooke. Mrs. Brooke
never minded disturbing lovers. What would
become of novels and novel-writers if that were
not done constantly? 'Oh, here you are,
Ohve ! ' cried she. ' I have been having such a
pleasant chat with the editor of the " Quixotic
Magazine " ! I would have come to you, though,
only I saw you were with Mr. Ardrossan ; but
I'll stay with you now. Oh, no, by the way, I
can't, but I'll come back in a minute. There is
a man just coming into the room whom I must
speak to  if I don't catch him now, he will be
swallowed up in the crowd, and I shall have no
chance.' And she hurried away, for she had
caught sight of a celebrated critic, who had, ina

review of ' Cross and-Fifty,' just complained
that the character of the cross lady was altogether
unnatural.

It's rather hard,' she said to hin, ' that,
after losing a legacy of seventy thousand pounds
for making that character so very like nature,
I should be told by you that it is not like at
all!'

" What so false as truth is " ! ' cried he
gaily. ' Browning tells you that, and this
gallery will tell you that a piece of literal transcript
is a perfect blot in a work which claims
to be imaginative at all.'

But ]airs. Brooke felt she must argue that
point, and began to do so.

In the meantime Dr. UUathorne had espied
Mr. Ardrossan, who had seated himself and
was keeping a place for Olive ; but Olive was
waylaid by admiring friends, and Morrison had
seen her, and was waiting until she was released
by them. Dr. UUathorne was tired of pictures
and of standing in a warm and crowded room.
He dropped down into the seat which was
being kept for Olive by Mr. Ardrossan's side,
and soon afterwards made his unwilling niece

squeeze herself in also, introducing her as a
born artist ' herself.

I envy you the possession of so delightful
a faculty,' said Mr. Ardrossan, looking into her
pretty frank face with some admiration.

Oh, there's Halstead! ' cried Dr. Ullathorne.
I must go and speak to him. I want to hear
about a Select Committee he is on. Eose, will
you stay here till I come back ? Don't let me
lose you.'

I will watch over Miss Keithley's safety,'
said Mr. Ardrossan, hoping, however, that she
would not prevent his watching something else
in which he took far more interest. ' Do you
think this a good Exhibition ? ' he asked.

Yes, very ; but I like seeing the people as
well as the pictures,' said she. 'Don't be
shocked. The dresses are so odd, and so picturesque
! What a pretty girl that is ! But
what a dress ! Still, I cannot help rather liking
it.' She was looking at Olive, who, finding
herself alone, and very near Morrison, was at
first too shy to approach him even with her
good news. She returned to his picture, thus
showing some ignorance of artistic nature, for

if she wanted him to join her she might have
known that one of his own pictures would only-help
to keep him away.

That is Miss Brooke,' said Mr. Ardrossan.
People think her very beautiful ! '

That Miss Brooke ! ' cried Miss Keithley,
and for a moment she was too much overcome
by the sight to say more. Mr. Ardrossan never
even observed her comparative silence ; he was
looking at Morrison, who was standing close
behind Olive, hesitating in what way to present
himself. But now a fussy little man, with a
note-book in his hand and wild anxiety in his
eyes, interposed between Morrison and Olive
and the two who were watchings them. ' That's
a belated critic,' said Mr. Ardrossan, ' a new
hand on a new paper, I should say. Listen to
him telling everybody that the day is not all
pleasure to him, for he has to write about it.
A new hand, evidently.'

Eose Keithley made some answer which was
just sufficient to prove that she had heard what
he said, but nothing more. He noticed its insufficiency,
and was glad she did not want to
be talked to. He little knew that she was as

deeply interested in what was now passing
before her eyes as he was. Again the crowd
parted, and Morrison and OUve stood revealed
to the two on the ottoman. Had these two
been near enough to hear what was being said,
this is what they would have heard : ' Mr.
Morrison '  Olive was, of course, the speaker 
'is it rude to tell an artist to his face what
pleasure his pictures give you ? I hope it is not,
for I want so to say it to you ! '

He coloured with delight, and said, ' They
can hardly give you as much pleasure as these
words of yours are giving me.'

Mr. Ardrossan has entrusted a message tome,'
she continued with downcast eyes, for she
was beginning to think that she had been somewhat
over-bold in taking this office on herself.

Oh, I saw him in the room a quarter of
an hour ago. I don't know where he is now.
May I hear the message ? '

It is this. He was dining somewhere last
night where he saw one of the Ellesmere Gallery
authorities  someone who knows all
about where the pictures are hung, I mean 
and he made him say where yours are placed.

They are hung beautifully ; both of them are
centres," and they are immensely admired by
everyone.'

He was gazing at her with eyes full of loving
admiration, and if she had raised hers she
must have seen it. Two who were witnessing
this scene from afar saw more of it than she did.

Olive never looked up ; she dared not, for
she had something else to say. ' Mr. Ardrossan
allowed me to be the one to tell you this,
because he knew it would give me pleasure,
and it does give me great pleasure.'

He did not speak so quickly as she expected
him to do ; he was thinking how strange it was
that she should be the one to tell him this, how
strange that he could not enjoy his good fortune
as he ought. The bitter overcame the
sweet.

You don't seem half happy enough about
it ' cried she. ' I am astonished at your taking
it so calmly. Two pictures in such splendid
places ! Why, it is quite an achievement ! '

Scarcely had this last word crossed Tier lips
than she could have bitten her tongue off for
using it. A speech of her own long ago flashed

into her mind. She remembered how she had i

assured him of her constancy, how she had |

entreated him to put it to the test hereafter, ;

when they were older, when he would find her |

always ready to remember that she had pro j

mixed to marry him  only before he claimed |

her he must have some ' achievements.' What i

malignant demon of mischief had thrust that <

word on to her lips now ? She blushed ; she said I

two or three stammering words ; she looked up ; i

she saw that he remembered the word and the ;

occasion on which she had last used it quite as i

well as she herself did, and that he was struck i

by the use she had made of it now. Their i

eyes met, and for one brief moment they seemed I

to see far down into the depths of each other's i

hearts. What Olive saw made her turn crimson. ;

I said that word by mistake,' cried she in an |

agony of nervousness, thus unconsciously throw j

ing away all defence. Then she tried to recover \

herself, and with an affectation of gaiety cried, i

Now, own that you are pleased. Is it not good I
news ? '

Yes, it is good news ; but how I wish it j

had come sooner ! ' i

'Mr. Morrison,' cried ]airs. Brooke, who,
having done with her critic, had now time to
look after Ohve, and joined her and Morrison
at this trying moment, ' I congratulate you on
your pictures here and elsewhere. Their
praises are on every tongue. I congratulate
you, too, on something else. I have just seen
Dr. Ullathorne, and he has told me that you
are engaged to be married. Did you know that
Mr. Morrison was going to be married, Ohve ? '

No,' said Ohve, ' I did not, but I am very
pleased to hear of it. I wish you every happiness.'
And she held out her hand to Morrison,
whose confusion was so great that he hardly saw it.

'You will bring Miss Keithley to see me,
won't you ? ' continued Mrs. Brooke. ' I know
her relations the Ullathornes, of course, and I
shall be delighted to make her acquaintance.
Come, Olive ; I have not seen any of the drawings
at the other end of the room. Don't let
us go home having seen nothing. Good-bye
for the present, Mr. Morrison. I dare say we
shall come across each other again before the
afternoon is over.'

While this scene was taking place between

Olive and Mr. Morrison, Eose Keitliley and Mr.
Ardrossan were still sitting watching them.
But even Mr. Ardrossan, who was so engrossed
by what he saw, could not fail to observe that
his silent little companion had grown alarmingly
pale. ' They ought to open their windows
wider at these places,' said he. ' I am sure you
are suffering from the heat.'

Yes, the heat  it is hot,' said she drearily
' very hot.'

Then came the crisis  then looks passed
between the two which could only be interpreted
in one way. Morrison and Miss Brooke
were lovers who somehow had been estranged,
but in their hearts were lovers still. Mr. 
cared to see no more ; he pressed his
lips together, turned to Miss Keithley, and
wished that her uncle would come and look
after her and let him get home. But her face
was whiter than ever ; and just as he was going
to offer to take her into the air. Dr. Ullathorne
came back, too full of some conversation in
which he had just been taking a part which
pleased him, to notice mere changes of expression
or complexion.

Miss Keithley is feeling the heat,' said Mr.
Ardrossan. ' I think she ought not to stay
any longer in this crowded room.'

Oh, bless my soul, Eose, what a white face
you have ! Let us get away at once. I don't
see your friend Morrison. I suppose he will
think it very unkind of you to go without lira.
I'll look for him, but it is no easy matter to find
anyone in a place like this.'

Miss Keithley could have pointed him out
quite easily. She did not. She moved a little
farther along the seat, so as to lose sight of the
two whom she had been watching with such
pain. She tried to make her uncle come out of
sight also. ' Sit here with me, dear,* said she to
him. ' Let us wait a little longer. I have a
very particular reason for wishing William not
to be disturbed for a while.'

When she said this Mr. Ardrossan could
have worshipped her. Dr. Ullathorne's words
had informed him of the engagement, but Miss
Keithley's own words told him far more. She
had seen all  knew all  knew that she had
only a second place in the heart of the man to
whom she had plighted her troth  that, somehow

or other, he had been held apart from
Ove Brooke, the woman whom he best loved.
She was aware of all this, and yet her instinctive
impulse was to sacrifice her own happiness
to his.

Mr. Ardrossan saw this, and recognised her
as a noble, high-minded woman. He saw that
she was made of the fine stuff' which can sacrifice
itself unhesitatingly to secure the happiness
of the beloved object.

Ah, you don't want him disturbed, you
mercenary little thing,' said Dr. UUathorne
benignly. ' You think he is selling pictures and
getting good commissions. Well, you are
right  the mill must have grist.'

Eose Keithley heard this, and even smiled
a sickly smile. In watching her Mr. Andros
forgot his own sorrows, but he wished he
could have stopped that speech being made.
He did his best o prevent any further aggravation
of her sufferings by engaging the worthy
divine in conversation. They talked, and Eose
Keithley sat patiently waiting for what must
come. After some little time Morrison joined
them. He looked quietly sad, as if he had

gone through some scene which had tried him
terribly, but was firmly resolved to do what
he thought right. He smiled gravely when he
saw Mr. Ardrossan. ' Oh, you are here ! ' said
he. 'I am so glad. And you have been introduced
to Miss Keithley, I see  I had hoped
to have the pleasure of introducing you myself.'
Then he turned to her and said, ' Eose, dear, I
am afraid you are very tired. I hope you have
not been waiting for me.'

CHAPTEE XLIV.

Good phrases are surely, and ever were, commendable.

Merry Wives of Windsor.

Madame Filoselle, ill-content with lier interview
with Mrs. Eaymoncl, and wishing fora
prompt understanding with some member of
the Brooke family more easy of access than Sir
Chesterfield himself, went without delay to the
moneyed one  Mrs. UUathorne. In the interest
of public morality it was well she did so, for
never, perhaps, in the whole course of the
milliner's devious existence did she hear such
an unqualified statement of any other person's
opinion of her conduct as she did from Mrs.
UUathorne, who told her she was a scheming
swindler, a cunning thief of the very meanest
kind, an abominable creature who ought at
once to be sent to gaol! She repudiated all
obligation on her part to pay the debt  she

emphatically declined to touch pitch in any
shape. She said she only hoped Madame
Filoselle would bring the matter before the
public, as she was now threatening to do, for it
would be the best means of ckawino- attention
to such scandals. As to the disgrace to her
family Which would ensue, she professed not to
care a pin for that. Her niece, Miss Brooke 
the only one connected with the affair for
whom she felt any real regard  had been perfectly
innocent of what was being done, and
had indignantly returned every fragment of
apparel or ornament she had ever had from
Madame Filoselle, directly she was informed of
it. As for Mrs. Raymond and Lady Brooke,
Mrs. UUathorne knew Avhat she thought about
them, and the less said on that subject for the
present, the better. Mrs. UUathorne utterly
disregarded all threats, would listen to no arguments
; in fact, poured out such a torrent of
violent abuse that Madame Filoselle, who when
she entered had felt herself strong enough to
move mountains, had just energy enough left
to creep out of the room and feebly make her
way back to her carriage. When once her

VOL. III. R

story was told she had not even so much as a
chance of raising her voice.

No wonder that woman is a widow she
gasped. ' No man could hold out for a month
who had such a creature as that in the house
with him.'

Mrs. Ullathome did not recover her usual
equanimity for hours. She did not much wish
to do so. She felt herself called on to act, and
to let everyone who had been connected with
such a shameful transaction feel distinctly and
permanently the worse for it. She took pen
and paper, and then sat staring at the white
page before her for some time, for no words
which she could think of seemed strong enough
to convey even a tithe of what she felt. She
finally gave up the attempt to find any that
would be adequate to her purpose. ' I will
just write quietly,' said she to herself. ' I daresay
a simple letter will be the best. After all,
it is the matter which is important, and not the
manner.'

Esther Raymond,' she began, ' I always
thought you a terrible fool, but I did not know
you were a knave as well. Your milliner,

whom yoii employed in that disgraceful manner
to dress out Olive to catch a rich husband, has
been here at my house, to try to extort money
from me. I have told her what I think of her,
and that I hope and trust she will make the
whole thing public, for it will only hurt those
who richly deserve to be hurt. She knows
what I think of her, so now let me tell you
what I think of you. On second thoughts that
would require time, and I don't feel very welland
it is of no use to make myself worse by
writing to a person whom I despise as much as
I despise you. Keep away from me ; I shall
never again be able to bring myself to be decently
civil to you. Anyone who could be a
party to such a bargain as you entered into
with that disreputable, swindling milliner is not
fit for my society, though you have always
affected to look down on my friends. Don't
come to see me. Don't expect to be the better
for anything that I may happen to have to
leave behind me when I die, for I certainly
shall never let any of my money go to anyone
of your stamp. My mind is stilly made up,
and I am glad you have furnished me with this

R 2

I

opportunity of knowing your true character j
while I have time to use my knowledge.' j

This done, Mrs. Ullathorne read her letter i
over  was pleased at the calmness and reti- j
hence she had displayed in it  sealed and lost i
no time in despatching it. Then she lay down \
on her sofa and made Bessie Cochrane fan her, \
for she said she had had a very unpleasant in '\
review with a person who had spoken with so |
much temper that she had quite made her ill. j

Early next morning Mrs. Raymond called. \
She was denied admittance. Immediately \
afterwards Mrs. Ullathorne ordered out the
family coach and went to Harley Street to tell \
Dr. Brooke what had occurred. ' I have seen i
Madame Filoselle myself,' said he quietly ; ' she
came here yesterday. My dear Mary, I don't !
wonder at yom being shocked.' I

" Shocked " does not express it, and never ;
will,' cried Mrs. Ullathorne, making a fan of i
her handkerchief and fanning herself in uneasy i
desperation. \

It hardly does,' said Dr. Brooke, who felt |
the disgrace most keenly. ' I am not surprised \
at Olive's stepmother  she is capable of any ;

thing ; but that Esther should be guilty of such
a thing ! '

And Esther will say that we are only
shocked because we are not in society,' said
Mrs. Ullathorne, to whom this assertion of her
sister's had always been a dire insult, though
she carefully concealed her feelings.

There is one law of right and wrong for
every kind of society,' replied Dr. Brooke.
For my part, I should like to put people who
do such things in o-aoL'

I do so wish we could ! ' cried Mrs. Ulla-thorn,
grasping in imagination big prison-keys
of which she was the keeper.

Well, we shall hear no more of Madame
Filoselle,' said Dr. Brooke ; ' I have arranged
to pay her.'

You have ? How foolish ! how vexing !
She does not deserve to have one penny.'

I think it more consistent with the family
honour that she should be paid. Olive wore
the clothes.'

'Yes, but you may be quite certain that
that creature charged twenty times as much as
they were worth.'

I said so. She is content to take half,
and I have promised her a cheque in a month's
time.'

Eichard, your means are not so good as
mine  let me pay her.'

Oh, it's settled now. Besides, I consider
Olive my own child.'

Mrs. UUathorne was deeply touched by her
brother's sacrifice, and by his care for the
family honour. With all her pretended indifference,
she disliked the exposure immensely.
She was silent for some minutes ; then she said
suddenly, ' Eichard, I was vexed with Sehna
about that novel of hers, but I begin to think
that is no reason for punishing you. I shall
have to see my lawyer tomorrow about cancelling
a very good legacy I had left to those
odious Eaymonds. I'll get him to restore that
bit about you and your family. I'll not leave
anything to Selina, though ; she deserves to be
punished for what she did. Besides, with her
talents, she can easily originate enough to keep
her.'

You will do as you like, Mary,' said Dr.
Brooke, who had no great faith in wills which

were re-made so frequently. ' It is very kind
of you to think of leaving me anything 
leaving my family, I mean, for you will outlive
me by a great number of years.'

Do you really think I shall ? ' cried Mrs.
Ullathorne, very eagerly ; but, with a better
and more kindly and truer afterthought, she
added, ' Eichard, it would be a very great grief
to me to lose you. After all, you and I are
the two who are most alike in character. Weare
Waverley ; we take after my mother ; all
the rest are more or less Brookes. Don't be low
about your health ; it is better, isn't it ? '

Oh, yes, much. In fact, my doctor says
I am well ; but I am not so strong as you.'

Oh, yes, you are. I am told that Ohve
sent back everything she ever had from that
woman.'

Everything ! I don't know that it was of
much use, except to mark her disgust.'

 Give her this cheque for a hundred pounds
she will want new clothes, poor girl. She is
a fine girl, Eichard  very like what I used to
be. I often look at her and think so. Good
morning.'

Eichard smiled a little, but he was touched
by his sister's rough kindness.

When Mrs. UUathorne got home she found
a note from Mrs. Raymond, and, much as she
wished to send it back unopened, could not
resist her desire to read it. Mrs. Raymond
protested that Lady Brooke was the one who
was responsible for the Filoselle contract  it
was she who had proposed it, negotiated it, and
carried it out. Mrs. Raymond entreated her sister
to suspend her judgment until she herself had
time to write to Lady Brooke, to make her own
that it was so. It would be cruel, she said,
not to give her time to be able to prove herself
innocent.

Mrs. UUathorne smiled with joyous bitterness.
' What a state she is in because she
thinks she will lose her legacy ! Life is uncertain,
especially mine. I'll make my will tomorrow,
as I said I would. I must have
Eichard's money made safe. If Esther is
telling the truth, I can easily make another
will. I don't believe her. But we shall see.'

Meantime Mrs. Raymond was writing thus
to Lady Brooke : 

Dear Honora,  There is nothing but
trouble here. Madame Filoselle is clamorous
for payment. She has been to Mary Ulla-thorn's.
Sister Mary is furious, especially with
poor me. I am made to bear the whole brunt of
it. It is very unjust and cruel of her, and she is
so angry that she refuses to see or speak to me.
Now, I require you at once to write to her and
take the whole blame on yourself. I positively
insist on your doing this. If you do not the
consequences will be serious to me, but they will
be much more serious to you, for I weill at once
write and tell Chesterfield certain facts which
are being kept from him by some of your family
here. I will tell him all that was made known
by Mary Gardiner to Ohve and to Dr. UUa-
those, namely, how you persuaded Hannah
Deanham to act as she did at the trial, and other
matters. You see I know all. I must also say
that if you had used the five hundred pounds
which Chesterfield gave you for the express
purpose of defraying all expenses connected
with Olive's introduction into society in the
manner in which he expected you to spend it,
and not in bribing Hannah Deanham to quit

the country again, all this vexation might have
been spared us. You could then have paid
Madame Filoselle's bill yourself, or at any rate
a large part of it. You must have known that
Olive would never marry sensibly, and yet you
used the money thus. I know that you received
it, for Chesterfield mentioned that in a
letter to Vincent. I insist, therefore, on your
taking the entire blame on yourself. It will
do you no harm, for I am sorry to say that no
member of our family can think worse of you
than they do already, and nothing else will
restore me to Sister Mary's good opinion. If
she remains angry with me my life won't be
worth having, for Vincent would never forgive
me, and no one can put things right but you.
The moment, therefore, that you receive this
you must at once sit down and write as I wish,
or I will at once write and put Chesterfield in
possession of every fact connected with his
wife's trial and his marriage with you. I am
not making empty threats  I shall most assuredly
do as I say.'

Thus wrote Mrs. Raymond, and forthwith
despatched her letter ; and if when Lady Brooke

left England she had not, as usual, departed
with a lie on her tongue, she would have received
it. Everyone had at first expected that
she would go to Lausanne and take some of
her girls back to India ivith her. She, however,
wanted a good excuse for again leaving
her husband, in case his doubts about his treatment
of his first wife once more made his companionship
oppressive to her. In order, therefore,
to account for leaving them at school a
little longer, she had pretended to Mrs. Raymond
that Chesterfield had written a letter
urgently desiring her return without one day's
delay. She had set out with apparent haste,
but had spent a fortnight in Paris. She had no
particular reason for wishing to stay there 
she was only taking her journey easily and
pleasantly ; but the consequence was that Mrs.
Raymond's letter reached India before she did,
and Sir Chesterfield, seeing that it was from his
sister Esther, opened it and read it.

CHAPTEE XLV.

Love seeketh not itself to please.

Nor for itself hath any care.
But for another gives its ease.  Blake.

Mr. Ardrossan spent the night after the
Private View in a state of considerable restlessness
and disappointment. He had not known
before how much he loved Ohve. He felt, too,
that he had become a good deal older all at
once, and that a larger piece of his life had
slipped away from him than he had been aware
of. People grow older gradually, no doubt ;
but it is strange what distinct breaks occur to
some of us, in which a period of life is, as it
were, summed up and seen to be the distant
thing it really is. Mr. Ardrossan felt this, and
fervently wished that someone like Olive had
crossed his path many years before. Puritan,
philosopher, philanthropist as he was, he had

always been thoroughly popular in society.
He had never been tempted to isolate himself
for his principles or to regard the gay world
from the standpoint of a ' superior person.' His
desire to serve Humanity (big-lettered) had
been united with a warm-heartiness which
made John and James and Mary objects to
him of true liking and sympathy, while he was
helping them as a matter of duty. But he had
not by any means intended to remain a bachelor.
Had time really gone so fast ? It seemed
to him only the other day that he had left Oxford
 only the other day that, full of enthusiasm
and zeal, he had taken the chair at his
first meeting.

Perhaps he would have suffered much more
if, along with his own little grief, he had not
had Miss Keithley's much larger one to think of.
He could not forget her or the look of keen
anguish which had come into her eyes as they
watched her dearest hope of happiness passing
away from her. ' She was wonderfully brave
at the time,' thought he ; ' but what must she
be feeling now ? She is a splendid girl  constant
and loyal, and thoroughly unselfish.

What a fellow Morrison is, to have two such
women in love with him ! I can read the
future clearly  sto-morrow, or perhaps in a
week or so, to do it in an unsuspicious, quiet
manner  I fancy she is one who likes to do all
quietly  she will write to him, or send for him,
and will tell him that she finds she has entirely
mistaken the nature of her own feelings and
cannot honestly let the engagement go on.
From what I have seen of her I am sure that
she will do this in a perfectly composed and
natural way, so as to cause no suspicion in his
mind that she has discovered his love for another.
She will leave him free to propose to
Miss Brooke, and will take care that he can do
so with ease of mind and happiness, which he
certainly could not if he knew the truth

Next day it was just the same  Mr. 
could not drive the thought of her out of
his mind. Three days afterwards he went to
Mulberry Street, Bethnal Green. Amongst
other people there he saw Mary Gardiner.
Olive's poor mother had died when, if she had
lived but a few months longer, it would have been
such a joy to her child  this woman, whose

life appeared to be of no value to herself or to
anyone, was living still, and likely to live for
six months. Struggling with this thought, he
left her room, and as he emerged from the dark
staircase to the light of day outside, he saw
Miss Keithley and her aunt Mrs. UUathorne (of
Bethnal Green) coming up the street.

It was no new thing for Mr. Ardrossan to
meet Mrs. UUathorne when going his rounds
in his district. She was constantly to be seen
in every corner of her husband's parish ; and
Mr. Ardrossan would have gone home with a
sense of loss and strangeness if he had not
somewhere encountered the good lady, with her
well-worn black bonnet and gray waterproof,
and her umbrella, which she carried for some
mysterious reason, in spite of her own assertion
that she had 'nothing on that could spoil.'
Such as she was, she always looked at home in
these sordid smoke-grimed streets ; but pretty
Miss Keithley, in her fresh print dress and
white straw bonnet trimmed with lace and cowslips,
looked like an unexpected flash of light
in them. Miss Keithley had a basket of roots
in her hands, which she was taking to a bit of

waste ground left by pulling down some shops
and warehouses. Mr. Ardrossan had bought
this, and, with some expense of ingenuity and
labour, had turned it into a playground and
garden for the children of the neighbourhood ;
and now even poor Eose Keithley was trying
to do something to make it prettier for them
by planting a few flowers likely to be strong
enough to prosper in such an uncongenial atmosphere.
He had had no faith in any flower
being able to hold up its head here, and had
therefore contented himself with giving a large
order for hardy ferns and evergreens ; but she,
perhaps, felt that even if her flowers did die ina
month or two they would die in a good cause,
having, at any rate, given some pleasure before
their lives came to an end. He was pleased
with her gracious thought. He looked earnestly
in her face to see if he had been right in his
conjecture as to what her conduct would be.
Had she broken off her engagement with William
Morrison ; and if so, how was she bearing
her separation from him ? He was certain that
she had done this  she could see proof of it in
every line of her face. Her eyes were heavy

with sleeplessness, her cheeks pale and worn,
and there Alas an air of patient suffering about
her which was infinitely touching ; but, manifest
as these signs of suffering were, there was
equal evidence of fortitude and strong resolution.
It was very kind and sweet of her to think of
brightening the lives of his poor gutter-children,
when her own troubles were so absorbing ; but
her own life wanted brightening  she ought to
have a thorough change of scene, and be taken
away from everything which could remind her
of her loss. On the spur of the moment he
devised a plan which seemed good in his eyes,
and with equal promptitude he laid it before
her.

Miss Keithley, you paint,' said he. ' I
hope you won't be offended if I ask you to take
a commission from me  I know you paint landscapes.
I want you to paint me twelve 
views of foreign towns. I have
a very particular use for them for one of my
great undertakings, and I especially want them
to be done by a lady.'

Miss Keithley looked very much confused
and astonished, and stammered that she was

VOL. III. s

completely unworthy to be entrusted with such
a commission  she could not paint half well
enough.

Oh, yes, you can : you painted that very
pretty drawing of St. Hilda's, in the Ellesmere
Gallery. I saw it there yesterday. I liked it
so much that I bought it.'

A glow of pleasure overspread Eose Keith-ley's
wan face. Had life still something to offer
her ? If she could do work which was worth
doing, she could find happiness in that  it
night not be the transcendent happiness she
had hoped for when she found she was to have
him she loved always with her ; but work has
its joys, and she knew it.

If I thought I could do them well enough,'
said she, 'there is nothing I should like so
much. I have never been abroad, and the very
idea of going is dehghtfiil. I'd give anything
to go  anything. I have wished it for years.'

Mr. Ardrossan was delighted. ' Then you
will let me consider it arranged ? ' said he.

But I can't go alone,' said Miss Keithley.
At least, can I ? ' she added, for she was hardly
in the habit of looking on herself as a young and

good-looking woman, who would excite attention
or admiration.

No, you must have a companion ; but no
doubt you have some friend who will be willing
to go. I leave the choice of subjects to
you ; but, if I may make a suggestion, I should
like the Italian towns.'

Better and better! The dream of Rosamond
Keithley's youth had been to earn enough
money by her painting to enable her some day to
travel and see Venice and Verona, and Eome
and Naples  cities whose very names seem to
make you richer whenever you hear them.

I should Hke you to go as soon as you can
at once, if possible,' said Mr. Ardrossan, who
was sure that the sooner she went the better
would be her chance of recovering peace of
mind.

It is finding the companion which is so
difficult,' said she in a low voice to Mrs. Ulla-thorn.
' I might, perhaps, persuade Aunt
Amelia to go with me  the complete change
would do her good, I am sure.'

Aunt Amelia ' was the invalid aunt who
had been with Miss Keithley at St. Gildas


Mrs. Ullathorne made a gesture of horror as
soon as she heard her name, and cried, ' Oh,
no ; that's quite out of the question. You must
not think of it for a moment. Mr. Ardrossan
wants you to paint him some pictures, and
to have some pleasure while you are doing
them. If you took your Aunt Amelia with
you, you would have to spend all your time
in waiting on her. Eose, I do wish you would
sometimes think of what is good for yourself.
You have friends who paint : choose one
of them.'

We need not discuss this now,' said Rosamond
to Mr. Ardrossan. ' I will do my best to
go quickly.'

Mr. Ardrossan had been watching the faces
of both ladies while this journey was being
discussed, and had seen a look in Mrs. Ulla-thorn's
which plainly showed that she regarded
it as a joy of too ecstatic a nature ever to come
within the reach of a poor hard-worked City
clergyman's wife, whose treadmill of duty
claimed her for ever. Mr. Ardrossan and Mrs.
Ullathorne had worked together in these busy
streets for nearly twenty years, and he knew her

to be as good a creature as ever breathed, and
one with whom Eosamond could be quite
happy.

Couldn't you spare time to go with Miss
Keithley ? ' said he. ' You would be doing mea
great service if you could ; so, if you say yes,
you must allow me to be your banker. Don't
say no. I can get a person whom I know to
be trustworthy to take charge of such of your
work as must be done while you are away, and
I will undertake to persuade the dear old
Doctor to let you go.'

Mrs. Ullathorne looked bewildered. A
pleasure which had always seemed to be unattainable
was suddenly placed within her grasp.
I should be only too happy ; that is, if you
think it could possibly be arranged,' said she,
sighing with suppressed delight.

And people tell you not to set too high a
value on riches ! ' thought Mr. Ardrossan.
What folly that is ! Thank God for the wealth
He has given me ! and thank Him also for the
opportunity of sharing it with others ! You
can't set too high a value on riches. If I had
been a man of small means, these two poor

women would have missed what they evidently
think a great pleasure.'

All this time they were walking together to
the playground, and talking as best they could.
Sometimes their way led them through wide
streets, full of warehouses, where speech was
often interrupted by a great sack of flour or
barrel of oil coming swinging down from some
window far above to the waggon which was to
bear it away. The noise of these waggons as
they rolled along, full or empty, was deafening
it was almost impossible to hear what was
said ; and in the back streets and alleys it was
equally difficult to keep up a conversation, for
there they were obliged to pick their way oneby
one through groups of women, who seemed
to be standing about for no particular reason 
boundless for the most part, and shrouded
in well-worn Paisley shawls which probably
covered up innumerable shortcomings in dress.
Little children were there too, looking pale and
prematurely old. And no wonder, for all that
makes life bright and happy was denied them
the streets where they played were dirty
thoroughfares, uttered with straw and refuse

I

of every kind, and the air was so full of smoke
that it could be tasted. 'Poor things,' said
Mr. Ardrossan to himself; ' how little one can
do for them ! How little, indeed, for anyone ! '
But even while this thought was passing through
his mind, he saw a look in Eosamond Keithley's
eyes which showed that he had been able to do
something for her. She had evidently begun
to think that life had a future ; and as for Mrs.
UUathorne, she was positively almost skipping
along the pavement.

The playground was occupied by groups of
children, swinging and playing in any way they
best fancied. ' Some of them must have been
swinging all night,' said a bystander of Mrs.
Ullathorne's acquaintance. 'They were hard
at it when I went to bed ; and when I looked
out at four this morning, it was just the same.'

Mr. Ardrossan glanced round in some discontent.
The work of growth was not going
on fast enough for him. He wished his trees
to rise up in one night like the beanstalk of
happy memory and shut out the smoky houses,
so bedizened with flaring advertisements. At
present every commodity of commerce was

pressed on the notice of those who enjoyed the
garden. Every house which hemmed it in had
its hie or red board with gigantic yellow
letters. Here, too, you had the head-quarters
of the Army of Salvation, with its war-cry well
printed and legible ; and face to face with it, on
the opposite side of the enclosure, a theatre
and a gin-palace ; the latter painted emerald
green and mauve in one part, dark red and yellow
ochre in another ; and the whole ' pointed '
up with crimson and blue. .

Oh, never mind a little bright colour,'
exclaimed Mrs. Ullathorne, who saw what
was disturbing him. ' The children like it 
I like it too ; so would you, if you lived
here.'

Should I really ? ' cried he, with a look of
such horror that she could not help laughing
heartily.

The ground is prettily laid out,' said she,
gazing with great satisfaction on the hard asphalte
paths and great heaps of bricks which
were piled up in methodical-looking beds and
waiting to be made into ferries.

I don't know, I am sure ; the shrubs look

well enough ; but I want to see the ferns green
and growing,' said he.

Eosamond Keithley shared his desire; but
she was doing something more to the point
than that  she had taken a trowel out of her
basket and was planting her flowers. Seeing
her thus engaged, Mr. Ardrossan said to Mrs.
Ullathorne, 'I shall send Miss Keithley a
cheque for half the price of these drawings tonight.
Will you tell me if you think I shall be
right in assuming that they will be the same
price as that of the same size in the Ellesmere?'

Quite right,' cried Mrs. Ullathorne, who
knew nothing whatever about it, but was sure
that Llr. Ardrossan could never be wrong.
How kind you are to propose to do that ! 
You remember everything. Dear Mr. Andros
this is such a lucky thought of yours ! 
so very lucky, for poor Eose is not at all happy
just now. In fact, I can't help thinking she is
very miserable. She wouldn't like me to tell
you, perhaps  so don't say anything to show
that I have done so  but she has broken off
her engagement with Mr. Morrison. She says
she does not love him enough to marry him ;

but I am sure  I don't know  I saw her crying
after she had done it, and I always thought she
was very fond of him  as fond as anyone could
be;

Mr. Ardrossan had known instinctively that
she would do this, so he could not honestly
show any surprise. ' And what did Morrison
say when she did it ? ' he asked.

Oh, he behaved remarkably well  he did
everything he could to persuade her to let the
engagement go on. He couldn't have behaved
better ; but she still said she was firmly resolved
to break off with him.'

Then I suppose that's how it ended  he
was obliged to let her do as she wished ? '

Well, of course a man has not much alternative
when a girl speaks so very decidedly;
but he refuses to take her answer as final. He
says he wishes her to think it over for six
months, after which time he will come to her ;
and then, if she still declares that she does not
love him enough to marry him, he will accept
his dismissal, but not till then.'

In other words, he won't profit by his release
until he is quite certain that she knows

her own mind,' thoiiglit Mr. Ardrossan. ' I
expected him to behave Hke a gentleman.'

They now went and watched Eose Keithley
planting her roots : evening primroses, wallflowers,
snapdragons, pinks, campanulas, and
sweet-williams. There was nothing very rare
about the contents of her basket ; but still in a
month or two the playground would look all
the brighter for what she was doing.

It is nice to see those children have room
to stretch their legs,' said Mrs. Ullathorne. ' I
don't think rich folks imagine what it must be
to have nothing but a narrow street to play in
I think if they did, some of the money which
goes by thousands to hospitals to help to chuse
bad diseases would be given to provide open
spaces, by way of doing something to prevent
them.'

Mr. Ardrossan,' said Eose Keithley, who
had now planted all her flowers, ' the more I
think of your kind scheme, the more delightful
it seems to me.'

CHAPTEE XLVI.

\

Phaedrus. This is the tree. *

Socrates. Yes, indeed, and a fair and shady resting-place, full of ]
summer sounds and scents.  Plato : Plioeclrus.

I lay me on the grass : yet to my will, j

Albeit all is fair, there hackett something still. ]

Chatterton. i

And so we awoke, and we rose in the dark,
and got with our bags and our brushes to work,'
said Morrison to himself as, about o, months
after the date of the last chapter, he thrust his
neck into the yoke of a large sketching-bag,
caught up a sketching-folio, and prepared to
leave a very comfortable hotel in Dieppe,
where he had been staying the last six weeks,
for his morning's work. He must have been intolerable
spirits, or this adaptation of Blake's
Chimney-sweeper ' would not have presented
itself so readily to his mind ; but in point of
fact he was not getting uj) in the dark at all.
That was a fiction indulged in for poetical purposes.

In reality it was just half-past seven,
and a beautiful September morning ; and, besides
that, he was not going out one bit earlier
than a host of other people, especially some
young ladies who were at the very same time
making their way down to the beach to bathe,
with stout towels on their arms, and their seaside
back-hair nicely arranged to float about in
the sweet haze of early autumn sunshine. As
Morrison was leaving the hotel, two of them
had come into the garden which surrounded it,
and were standing under the bedroom windows
of a certain ' Janie,' as he gathered from their
discourse, and trying to persuade her to go and
bathe with them. ' Janie ' appeared to hesitate
she was sure it would be cold, she said.
Morrison thought she only wanted pressing ;
but the two outside were not disposed to take
much trouble about her. ' We can't wait,'
said one. ' I do wish you would come ; but if
you won't  you won't.' On this, of course,
Janie ' shook her head with vigorous decision
persuasion would have softened her. The
bathers tm-ned to go. 'Oh, by-the-by,' cried
one, ' have you seen the " Times," Janie ? '

No. Is there anything nice in it ? '

Nothing very particular  only I was right
about that Mr. Ardrossan  I was siu-e I was at
the time. He has married the girl he was
always going about with in Eome. I told you
he would. I wish I had had a good big bet on
it, though.'

Mr. Ardrossan married! Morrison tiu-ned
back and ran into the hotel again, to have a
look at the ' Times * and see the name of the
lady ; and there he read : 

At the British Embassy, Eome, John Ar-dross,
Esq., of 83 Grosvenor Place, London,
and Glen Duich, Ross-shire, Neb., to Eosamond,
only daughter of the late Walter Keithley, of
Gower Street, London.'

Then he was free to love Olive ! He had
been faithful to Eosamond Keithley. He had
given her six months in which to make up her
mind whether she could be happy with him or
no, and until he got her answer he had thought
it right to avoid Olive. Now an answer had
come which was sufficient. Miss Keithley had
said at the time that her decision was final, and
had declined this offer of more time for thought ;

but as lie had made it lie considered himself
bound, and bound, too, if at the end of the
period she should come and say, ' I can never
love anyone as I love you.' Now he was free!
Now he would go to Ohve! For this day,
however, he was loyally true to his drawing 
it wanted more time, and should have the whole
day ; but he painted with a happy hope in his
mind  there was just a chance that she might
listen now.

Two days afterwards Mrs. Brooke was
sitting with her two pretty young daughters,
when Mr. Morrison was announced. He looked
round the room for Olive ; but no Ohve was
there ; and when he asked where she was Mrs.
Brooke said ' She has been in Cornwall, with us
and her Aunt Ace, and now she has gone down
to Yorkshire, with her other aunt. Miss Lettice
Brooke. Oh, by-the-by, Mr. Morrison, you
know Austerfield  that's where she has gone.'

When did she go ? ' he asked.

Only this morning. If you had come yesterday
you would have seen her. Now I don't
know when you will have a chance of doing that,
for she won't be back here for ever so long.'

Morrison smiled. There were other places \

in the world in which he might see Olive be !

sides Mrs. Brooke's drawing-room. He could ;

not help thinking that, though a novelist and I

given to making plots herself, his dear friend i

was not quick at seeing plots which arranged ;

themselves. This thought made him put a !
question. He had akeady been surprised to

find her sitting reading to her daughters instead j

of writing as usual ; so he asked if she had i

given up writing. j

Oh, no,' was her reply ; ' I have not given -

it up, I hope  the Doctor will not let me do \

that  but still I don't see how I am ever to go I

back to it. I find such dozens of things to do ; !

in fact, I am rapidly becoming so firmly woven \

into the web of family life that I sometimes ;

think I shall never be able to break loose from :

it again.' \

Morrison stayed some time, and while he

was thus talking and thinking of her, Olive was J

on her way to Austerfield. At last she had I

got permission to go there. As soon as she 

found herself in Yorkshire she was full of eager !

interest, and began to persecute Miss Lettice ;

with questions ; though all she could draw from
her in reference to Austerfield was, ' You won't
care for it as you used to do.'

Well, at any rate the Grange is as beautiful
as I remember it ! ' exclaimed Olive, gazing
fondly at the venerable lichened walls, all overgrown
with flowering shrubs. ' And you have
the very same chintz ! ' she cried when she
went into her bedroom, for there were the
paroquet as bright and busy as ever. ' It
is the same ; and my bed in London has had
ever so many sets of new curtains ! And, oh !
how delightful ! the books are still there ! '
She looked out of the window  there was the
garden brilliant with autumn flowers. She
went to the looking-glass, almost expecting to
see her own childish face reflected in it ; but
when she announced her intention of having a
run around the garden she was told that dinner
was ready ; and when dinner was over it was
dark.

Next day she resolved to make her rounds
in the order which she had observed as a child.
First came the garden. It was lovely ; and so
was the orchard, too, with hoary old fruit-trees

VOL. III. T

covered with large rosy-checked apples; but
lie could find no dark or dangerous places, nor
yet any wliicli seemed as if they could ever
have been lawfully regarded as such. She
opened the wicket-gate which led from the
garden to the churchyard. She went to the
old stone coffin in which she and Willie had
sat so often ; then she walked round and looked
at the tombstones. She found those of her
grandfather and grandmother, and then that
which bore the names of Willie's poor grandmother,
his butcher-uncle, and some unknown
cousins. Another tombstone, with an enormous
lily carved on it, marked the grave of the only
person in the village of whom Olive had a disagreeable
recollection  a certain ill-tempered
farmer, from whose tongue appealingly bad
words were never absent. It was odd to put
a lily on his tomb. Next she visited the village.
It was a mere collection of dull cottages. She
went to the humble home where Willie's young
years had been spent. She had always recalled
it as a nice little stone house, standing in its
own garden. It was a four-roomed cottage,
with a water-butt almost as big as itself standing

by the door ; a sanded doorstep and
passage, and a strip of cabbage-garden at the
side, with an ill-kept hedge, almost smothered
with weeds. ' It is terribly depressing to see
these places,' thought she. ' And yet, how
angry I was with poor Willie for saying that
Austerfield was a commonplace village ! ' Then
she went to the field where Willie had hidden
himself behind the corn-sheaves, and after that
she walked to the Ayton Bank Farm. What a
long, long walk it had seemed then, and how
quickly she got there now ! and besides that,
it was as unrom antic and unpicturesque a walk
as could have been found anywhere. She could
have sat down and wept, her disappointment
was so bitterly keen.

But she had kept the dearest spot of all till
the last. At six o'clock in the evening she had
always met Willie at a certain lime-tree in the
prettiest field far or near, and there most of
their time had been spent. That she knew
was beautiful, and could not disappoint her.
When the hour came she went. The field was
very pretty and irregular, and through the
midst of it came the rapid little stream she ret

2

membered so well. There was a time when
not a corner of that field was unconnected with
some delight. She walked through it now.
She entered the little wood  the wood with
dangerous places, and long leaps which might
be successful and land you on the opposite
bank, or might but deposit you in water too deep
for safety, for here the channel of the stream
was narrow. There seemed to be no place
now where she could not step over with ease.
It was pretty, it was nice, but it did not stir
her heart, except so far as it was associated with
WiUie.

She returned to the lime-tree and seated
herself on the great bare root on which she
and Willie had always sat. She had wished to
revisit these places for years, and had hoped to
be so happy when she did so, and this joy also
had proved a mere mockery, as every other joy
to which she had ever looked forward had
done. She covered her face with her hands
and wept when she thought what an unhappy
girl she was. She did not believe that there
was another girl in England so unhappy as she.
And she was not miserable without a cause. Her

troubles were substantial things  hard to bear
at the time, and such as would leave their
mark for life. Her early youth had been
happy, but she had never been happy since.
From the age of ten she had lived stinted of the
love which a child has a right to expect, with
bricks and pavement as food for her eyes,
and dull lessons as food for her mind. Then
came that hateful time with her stepmother,
during which she had suddenly discovered that
she had a mother of her own. How the discovery
had delighted her ! But she had found
her mother only to lose her. Besides this grief,
the disgrace which stained her family was intolerable
to her  her mother's divorce, which
was still held to be a just sentence  the fact
that her own father's sister could make such a
dishonourable contract as Mrs. Raymond had
done  there were so many things to make her
hide her head in shame ! And Willie ! There
was another deep disappointment. She had
longed for years to be reunited to him ; and
when she did see him again, how had he treated
her? She was not thinking of his behaviour
in the train  that she had forgiven long ago 

Ms heroic conduct afterwards had quite thrown
into the shade anything he had done to offend
her; nay, more, had won her admiration for
life. Besides, her own conscience told her that
all he then said was true, and that her mode of
life at that time was not such as a man of his
stamp would care for. It was afterwards that
he had treated her so ill. He had seemed to
love her  had asked her to marry him, and
then in an incredibly short space of time had
engaged himself to another woman ! How
could he do so? How could any man be
so fickle ? With feminine perversity, in which
she was by no means deficient, she did not take
her refusal of him into account at all. 'He
might,' thought she, ' have seen that my head
was quite full of something else  of something
very important, which was making me far too
unhappy to be able to think of love or of him
she might have waited till that was over.
Besides, if he cared for me at all, how could he
change so quickly? I turned to him directly
my mind was my own again and I was able to
think of him and knew he loved me. I believe
I have loved him all my life  not, perhaps, as

an existing person, but as one of whom I
dreamed ; and when his flowers came I loved
him just as much as ever, for I knew he was as
nice as he used to be, or he would not have
thought of sending them to me. But to go and
get engaged so quickly ! '

A slight sound startled her. She turned,
and Morrison stood behind her. His train had
brought him to Austerfield just in time to goto
the old try sting-place at the old time. She
rose to her feet, but was too much startled to
speak. He too was scarcely able to speak, for
he had said to himself all the way as he came,
 If she cares for me at all, I think some feeling
will make her, on this first night of being at
Austerfield, visit our old place of meeting at
the same hour that we used to go.' He had
said this, and she was there ; and when he saw
her, his face grew radiant with happiness and
his eyes bright with hope.

How do you do, Mr. Morrison ? ' said
Olive rather stiffly. ' I did not expect to see
you here.' She was terribly mortified that he
should have found her where she was.

No, of course you did not,' said he ; ' but
I had just a very faint hope that I might find you.'

There are not many walks in Austerfield,'
said she ; ' one has to go to such as there are.'

I wanted,' he said, ' to think that you came
here, as I myself should always come, for the
sake of former times  with some wish to see a
place where I had spent so many hours  so
many happy hours.'

Of course I did,' replied Olive. ' I have
been to all the places where I used to play
when I was a child, so naturally I came to this
as well as the others.'

I saw Mrs. Brooke yesterday,' said he ;
'she told me that you had left London for
Yorkshire that very day.'

You were in London yesterday ? Then,
did you come here to-day ? ' asked Olive, much
surprised, and not at all pleased.

Yes, I came to-day, because I wanted to
see you.'

To see me. ' she said coldly ; for, under the
circumstances, engaged as he was to another
woman, she did not approve of his wishing so
much to see her.

Yes, to see you  the one person whom of
all others I shall always most wish to see. Miss

Brooke,' he said hastily, ' sit down again one
minute  you were sitting when I came. Sit
down and Hasten to something which I must say
to you.'

Oh, no, it is late. I must go home,' said
Olive confusedly. ' What have you to say tome,
Mr. Morrison ? '

Much  everything  you must listen.'
Oh, by-the-by,' said Olive, ' I am quite forgetting
to ask how Miss Keithley is  do tell me.'
Miss Keithley has married Mr. Ardrossan.
He has got as noble a woman as ever lived.
That's why I am here. I should not have been
speaking to you now had it not been for this
marriage ; but, whether I came or stayed away,
I should always have set you far above her and
all other women.'

What ! when you were engaged to her ? 
cried Ove.

Yes, even when I was engaged to her.
Mss Brooke, be generous  I will explain everything
to you hereafter  but trust me when I
say I have not behaved ill about her. I thought
it right to ask her to marry me. If you had
not been in the world, I have no doubt I should

have loved her much more than I did. I did
feel a very strong affection for her, though it
was not real love. It was a mistake to offer to
her ; but she was the one to discover that, not
I. She said she found she could never be happy
with me. I was afraid that she had divined
that you were the one whom I always had
loved, and always would love ; but it seems I
was wrong. However, I refused to let our engagement
be broken off until she had waited
six months, to see if after all she could not be
happy with me. She has married Mr. Andros
before the six months have expired. I am
free. I seek you again  I shall never love any
woman but you. You may think me foolish,
or what you will, but I believe I have loved
you ever since the day we first met. I only
know that ever since that time I have never
done anything without some secret reference to
you. Every picture has been painted with the
thought that your dear eyes might see it ; and
every time one was praised, I thought, " She
may see that it is well spoken of. She may,
perhaps, understand how I am trying my
hardest to bring myself one step nearer to her."

I know I am presumptuous ; I know how much
more so I must seem here, where there is
everything to remind you what a poor little
village boy I was when you first knew me ; but
still, if you could but love me, I do not think
you are one who would care what my relations
were. Olive, do love me  I can't live without
you  I have loved you all my life.'

During this long speech Olive had sat quietly,
but her heart had been deeply stirred. Now
she did not look up, but said very gently,
Won't you sit down beside me  here, in your
old place ? ' And she moved a little farther
along the rugged old gnarled root. Morrison's
head swam with the joy of a hope to which he
dared not allow himself to trust. He sat down
by her side. He looked at her. Her head was
bent down, her hands were lying on her lap.
He said, in a voice full of suppressed emotion,
When we sat here together before, we always
sat hand-in-hand.'

Her head sank lower and lower. She did
not seem angry with him, but she did not
speak.

Do speak to me,' cried he. ' Tell me if I

may dare to hope. You do not check me, but
you give me no hope.'

She was still silent. She was wondering to
herself how it was that now, when she so much
wanted to speak to him, she could not force her
lips to utter one single sound. She tried repeatedly,
but still could not.

I am distressing you,' said he, ' but I
must. I have come all the way from France
just to say this to you. It is no new thing on
my part to feel thus  I said the same thing to
you in the winter ; I have wished to say it for
years. Nothing but my own consciousness that
I had no right to approach you with such a
proposal has kept me away from you so long.
I am still unworthy to offer myself to you, but
I have more hope than I had of making a position
for myself of which you won't be ashamed ;
and if you would but love me, dear Olive, I
should work a thousand times better. You
don't know how I would work and try to do
good things.' Having said this, he looked in
her face so earnestly that it seemed as if no
feeling of her heart could be hidden from him.
Make some sign if you wish me to be silent on

I

this subject for ever,' said lie, pitying her ; and
then he watched her with a sickening dread
lest the sign for which he had asked should be
given to him.

She made no sign. She even attempted to
raise her shy eyes to his and let him see that
there was a gleam of love and trust in them,
but they fell under his gaze almost before they
met it.

'Oh, Olive,' cried he, 'have mercy! You
do not drive me away ; but do not bless me
by halves. " Or love me all in all, or love me
not at all." Now that a glimpse of hope seems
to be vouchsafed me, I feel as if I must have all
or nothing. Can you love me, Ohve ? ' And
as he spoke he held out his hand.

She saw his outstretched hand, and slowly
laid hers in it. There was a moment's silence,
and then she spoke, and her words came swiftly,
and apparently without an effort. ' ' Can I
love you ? " you ask. I believe I have loved
you all the time. I am quite sure I have
never loved anyone else. It seems to me that
you are the only one Who can make my life
perfect.'

Morrison's heart leaped for joy. Not only
lead she accepted him, but she was expressing
the very thought which made one of the chief
delights of his love for her. She alone could
make his life a perfect whole. His love for
her ran back as far as memory could reach. It
had gladdened his boyhood, elevated his youth,
and, please God, should elevate and sustain
him as long as life lasted. ' My darling Olive ! '
he cried, tightly clasping her hand, which now
as of old lay so contentedly in his, 'how
shall I ever thank you enough? We always
have loved each other, and we always will.
Now we will be so happy. You did not look
happy when I came to you.'

I was miserable  very miserable. I was
Counting up my losses, and I seemed to have
lost everything. I felt quite alone in the
world.' A loving pressure of the hand told
her that that grief was hers no longer. ' And
I was vexed to bifid Austerfield so ugly.'

It is not ugly ! ' he cried, in his turn indignant.
' It may not be what is called beautiful
scenery, but it is just as beautiful as we
were fitted for. To us the world was summed

up in this one field. It held all that we were
capable of admiring. It contained a specimen
in miniature of every kind of beauty in nature.
It still seemed almost mountainous to us, and
yet we had strength to climb it. Its beck had
dangerous rapids, and deep and sullen pools,
and was so broad that we had prudently to
choose a safe spot for the bold venture of crossing
it. Now we wonder where the difficulty
could be. Then the wood was big enough for
us to lose ourselves in. No, it's not ugly, but
small. But, Olive, what made you not care
for it just now, and what made me not care for
it when I was here before, was that we were
alone. We were never alone when we were
here before : how happy we were together !
We must never part more.'

You are right,' said Olive. ' It was
because I was alone. Once, when I was a child,
I was just as miserable, and saw no beauty or
pleasure in anything. It was that day when I
thought you had left me to go to see some
wild-beasts ; but, after all, you had stayed at
home for my sake. It was the last day we
were together  do you remember ? '

Do I remember ? I remember everything
every single thing that happened that day.'

Ohve blushed, for she too remembered
that day, and how she had flmig her arms
round his neck and kissed him, and told him
she should love him for ever and ever.

Don't mind my remembering everything
so well. My recollections are very delightful.'

'We were happy children,' said Olive.
The only sorrow we ever had was that our
flowers would fade. We decorated a bower
with garlands, and cried because they withered
in a day. Oh, look at the sun ! How beautiful
it makes everything ! It is like magic'

Long rays of crimson were streaming across
the field and glorifying all that they touched.
She watched with admiring eyes, but truthfulness
compelled her to add, ' I dare say I should
have thought that ugly too if you had not
come.'

They watched the sun till it sank below the
horizon; then Olive said, 'I must go home.
Aunt Lettice will be anxious if I don't. You
will come with me, won't you ? Oh, Willie, 1
am so happy ! '

She was still happier when she entered the
house, for Miss Lettice came to meet her with
a letter in her hand  a letter with an Indian
stamp. It was from her father : 

My child (wrote Sir Chesterfield), I have heard everything.
You and your dear mother thought it kinder to
keep the painful knowledge from me, but you were wrong.
The fear that she had possibly been treated with injustice
and cruelty has tormented me for years. That dread
would never have left me, howsoever well you kept the
secret. Now that my most painful fears are confirmed,
and, besides that, I find that my dear wife is lost to me
for ever, one tiling only remains for me to do  to come
home, and so long as life is left to me try to be a good
father to you. God bless you, my own dear ill-used
child. You will see me soon after you receive this. Try
to forgive me and love me as your father. Full justice
shall be done your dear mother's memory. I feel heartbroken
when I think of all that she must have suffered.
My darling, if you can forgive me for having treated you
with such neglect, the remaining years of my life shall be
spent in trying to make yours more happy. I long to be
with you, for your mother's sake and for your own.

Chesterfield Brooke.

