CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE
XIII. THE heart's misgivings 1

XIV. Hopes OF SAND 34

Xy. WHAT HAVE I DONE? .56

Xii. THE PENCILLED LETTER 80

XVII. A STRING OP PEARLS 103

Xviii. THE Accent COLUMN . . , , . . . 130

XIX. THIS WAS SUCH PLAIN SPEAKING . . . .156

XX. PEDIGREE SHAKING 184

XXI. BECAUSE I HAVE SEEN HIM 215

XXII. THE GOLDEN APPLE 233

XXIII. THE FLUSH OF THE ALMOND BLOOM . ' . . 263

XXIV. PARIS Borne 285

CHAPTER XIII.

THE heart's misgivings.

Henry. Let it content you now,

There is no woman that I love so well.
Eros. No woman but should be content with that.

Teisntson-.

All through the bitter month of March there
had been days when Josephine Treherne could
not refrain from betaking herself to her room
and her seat on the old black box, to bewail
Mr. Daylesford's forgetfulness of herself and
family. He was the only human being who
had ever shown any disposition to make their
lives happier, and he had ceased to care for
them. But Josephine Treherne was not the
only girl who was unhappy about Mr. Dales
There was one who lived under his own
VOL. II. B

roof who was making herself miserable on
much more substantial grounds, and when
April came and he sometimes spent many
hours of each day in Lome Gardens, she
was still more wretched, though she only
partly guessed at where he had been. They
had come to England together in November,
to a house in Ambassadors' Gate, which Mr.
Blackmore had made ready for his client, and
then she who had lived with him abroad for
nearly four years, and had never been parted
from him for more than an hour or so except
when he had to go back to England for the
trial, suddenly found herself separated from
him at every turn, by engagements of various
kinds, social conventions, and arrangements, of
which she, an inexperienced country girl, had
formed no previous conception. She had left
her home for his sake, but she had left it to
go abroad, and though she knew that she was
doing wrong, she was not made to feel it by
the visible condemnation of her fellow creatures
until she returned to her native land.

She had borne Daylesford's name, and they
had for the most part lived m unfrequented
places on the Continent, where English travellers
were rare. They had avoided every one,
and had spent their whole time in sketching.
It was a passion with both of them, and those
among whom they sojourned willingly left them
to themselves.

At length Daylesford had wished to return
to his own country ; he had his brother's property
to look after, and in many respects it
was inconvenient for him to be absent. Even
when he first came to England, ignorant though
he was of English society and its convenances
he had felt that he and Hester must no longer
reside under the same roof. He had told her
that he should seek a pretty home for her in
the neighbourhood of London, where he could
easily see her without offending that inexorable
power called Society.

Hester's ignorance of that power was profound.
' We know no one,' she had said ;
we want to know no one.'

B 2

'That cannot last long he had replied,
and had tried to make her see the thing as he
did.

She had, of course, yielded, but she had
yielded as people do to the surgeons knife;
and he, while assuring her that this partial
separation really must take place, had been so
touched by her distress, that he had day after
day delayed to make the final arrangements,
until February came, and she was still with
him.

These months in England had taught her
many bitter things, which she might have
known before, but somehow did not. She
discovered that Daylesford did not like to be
seen with her. When abroad they had been
inseparable ; now, though the intimation had
never been clothed in words, she had slowly
learnt, by trifling but convincing indications,
that she must never expect to go out with him
when he was in his own country. He never
let any of his friends see her. He had been so
little in England, that he had very few friends,

or even acquaintances  nut a dozen in all ;
but when any of them came to his house,
Hester remained in her own rooms. This she
preferred, and would have done without any
hint from him ; but it was painful to her. She
sometimes saw him studying the advertisement
pages of the 'Times;' she knew that from time
to time he went to look at some house that he
thought would do for her. She felt that she
ought to take an interest in this search, and for
his sake be willing to go, but she could not ;
for it seemed to her that it would be taking
the first step towards saying farewell to him
for ever. Her situation was much worse when
he became acquainted with the Trehernes. He
had told her all about his first meeting with Miss
Josephine. Hester had been very uneasy that
night about Daylesford himself, and had sat
for hours almost despairing of his return. When
he did return from his expedition to Lome
Gardens with Zeph, he had told the tired and
anxious woman, whom he found waiting for
him, what an adventure he had met with during

the fog, and what a beautiful girl he had seen.
He had told her of his subsequent meetings
with the family, and of their visit to the castle,
and then he had seemed to avoid speaking of
them. He had seemed to avoid meeting them
too, and had stayed with her much more than
he had ever done since they had been in England.
They had even begun to paint once
more, and she had been happier than she had
ever expected to be again. That was in March
in March, when Zeph was so unhappy. In
April, however, there was a change. He would
do no more painting ; when he was in the
house he was silent and preoccupied, and
when he went out, which he did continually,
Hester greatly feared that he was with the
Trehernes. She was almost certain that there
had been a period during which he had struggled
against the fascination which the beautiful
Miss Treherne exercised over him. She was
sometimes still more certain that this struggle
was abandoned  that he had yielded, and
meant to yield. What was a poor loving

woman, who desired his happiness more than
anything else on earth, to do ? The answer
readily presented itself to her, but she shivered
at the mere thought. The beautiful Miss Tree
! To a plain woman beauty seems such
an overwhelming power. Hester knew that
she herself was not beautiful, and had never
mourned the deficiency more than now. And
yet she scarcely did herself justice, for though
her face was one which at first sight might
have been called plain, there was something in
her expression which compelled every one to
look twice. It was the beauty of goodness
shining out of her bright, honest, and entirely
sympathetic eyes. Her face was of the good
old Cumbrian type, but with the strange contradiction
of a perfectly smooth skin and fine
complexion, in conjunction with strongly marked
features ; her lips had a curve or two more
than usual among the dales women, and her
forehead and eyebrows more shapeliness. Her
face might be plain, but it was for ever redeemed
by her eyes and the revelation they

afforded of her nature. Her figure, too, was
splendid in its youthful grace and vigour.

One sunny morning in April she was sitting
in her own room, shivering with cold and dread
of the starvation of heart and soul which would
be hers if she had to bid farewell to the man
whom as long as she lived she must love. ' I
had not the slightest idea such a terrible thing
as this could happen,' she said to herself. 'When
once we loved each other, I thought it was forever.'
Her thoughts then turned to her quiet
home among the Cumbrian hills, far away from
this noisy, changeful London. ' If we had but
stayed there, he would never have cared for
any one but me. He says that he cares for no
one but me now, but does he think I cannot
see how he is changed?' She heaped more coal
on the fire, for, warm as the weather was beginning
to be, she could not feel warm. 'It is my
heart that is so cold,' she thought. 'How
shall I bear it if I have to live all the rest of
my life feeling like this ? ' Once or twice she
caught sight of some object in the room, but

she turned away her eyes from it in pain.
There was hardly anything in that room which
she could now look at without feeling as if it
stabbed her. No room could have been
prettier, but almost everything in it had been
bought expressly for her, and with special
reference to her tastes and wishes. The walls
were light and covered with water-colours of
the lakes and mountains and waterfalls which
she had known and loved from her youth up.
There were two pretty white bookcases filled
with books which he had given her ; she had
read and enjoyed them all. ' I ought never to
have come here,' she thought. ' Never ! I
ought not to have left my home with Godfrey
as I did ; but, come what may, he has been
good and honourable to me, and if he has not
been able to go on loving me, it is only because
he has seen some one more like what he really
most admires. After all, what was I but a
poor little village girl? My only merit was my
love for him, and it is not worth much if it does
not last to the end.' And she sighed a long

sigh of pain, for she knew that, by lasting to
the end, she meant being equal to the sacrifice
of resigning him if his happiness demanded it.
Then her memory began to busy itself with the
past, a past not quite four years old, when she
had first seen Daylesford. She was an orphan,
having lost both her parents while still a child.
They had left her nearly destitute, but she had
been adopted by an aunt, the widow of a
country doctor, who had died young. Mrs.
Langdale (Hester's aunt) had stayed in the
lake-side village where her husband had died,
and gained her livelihood by letting lodgings ;
and Hester, who had been at good schools, and
was well educated, and in every way above her
station, did not make the smallest difficulty
about playing the part of upper servant to the
aunt who was doing her utmost to be kind to
her. This was how Hester Langdale had made
Daylesford's acquaintance. He and two or
three other young men had gone to the lakes
with a tutor, and pitched their tent at Mrs.
Langdale's house on the shore of Derwentwater.

Daylesford was reading for his degree. The
young men did a great deal of boating, mountain
dining, and walking, and spent the
summer most pleasantly. Daylesford sometimes
invited Hester to go on the lake in hia
boat, or to join him in some sketching expedition.
She had much feeling for art, and was a
charming companion, full of enthusiasm and
love of nature, and simple and innocent as a
child. After spending weeks in each other's
company an attachment sprang up between
them, though they scarcely admitted the fact
even to themselves.

These peaceful lake-side villages are often
full of subtle dangers, and fevers linger in
them for months and even for years. And yet
tourists come and go without one word of
warning from the inhabitants, for the very word
fever would scatter all the money-bringing
strangers. Daylesford sat down to sketch a
cottage with a lovely porch covered with roses,
and not till Hester saw the completed sketch
did he learn that three children were in bed

with scarlet fever inside that house  a fact
good Mrs. Langdale would assuredly have concealed.
He caught the fever, and the reading
party dispersed in hot haste, leaving Mrs.
Langdale and Hester to nurse the sick man.
In due time he recovered, and then came the
wrench of parting.

No sooner had he returned to Oxford and
gone in for his degree than he heard that both
Hester and her aunt had caught the fever from
him, and the next news was that the old lady
was dead, and Hester dangerously ill. He
went back at once, and saw that she had the
best advice and care. His return saved her
life ; she had been breaking her heart about
him, and did not care to get well, but she recovered
from the very hour when she learnt
that he was in the village again. At length
the time came when he must once more part
from her, but the thought of this renewed
separation was more than she could endure.
She was ill and weak, and she showed her
whole heart to him and entreated him never to

leave her. Daylesford at that time was only
one-and-twenty, and could not marry. His
father, who had always attributed all the misfortunes
of his life to an early and imprudent
marriage, had, when he made over a large sum
of money to Mr. Blackmore for the use of his
own wife and sons, inserted a clause in the
deed which forbade either of the young men to
marry before the age of twenty-five. If they
did so they were to forfeit all share of any
money left by him. The earl had died some
months before, but his death had made no difference
to Daylesford's prospects, for the papers
on which everything depended could not be
found, and though there was going to be a trial,
that would probably end in disappointment.
If he married Hester he would be penniless.
He had told her so, but again she had wept
and entreated him never to leave her.

He never went back to Oxford, but they
went to quiet places in France, Italy, and
Germany, and there they had stayed until about
four months ago, when they had, as Hester

thought, SO unhappily decided to return to
England.

At first Daylesford had been almost as
much out of society as Hester herself ; now she
wondered where he spent his time  now she
began to feel her loneliness.

On this particular day it seemed harder to
bear than usual. Godfrey was out, she did
not know where, and he had gone without a
word or message. He did not come home to
luncheon ; she ate some in a duty-manner, and
then went out into the park. The day was
fine, and the heavy pall, which had hung
above the great city nearly all the winter,
had entirely withdrawn itself, and seemed unlikely
to return for the next six months.
Hester breathed freely, and began, though
with a heavy heart, to take something of a
landscape painter's interest in the beauty of
the trees and grassy undulations. She longed
to make a sketch. It was so wonderful to
see a fine park lying like a green gem in a
setting of miles upon miles of brick and

mortar. And how crowded it was with
people who, though not a stone's throw from
the great highway and still within hearing
of street cries and the heavy roll of omnibuses,
could fancy themselves fifty miles from
London! She walked until she came to a
more reasonable frame of mind. It was folly
(so she told herself) to try to measure Dales
feelings by her own. He was a man,
and he had a thousand cares and interests,
of which a poor little country girl could have
no ken ; it would be madness to expect him
to be the same in London as he was abroad,
and, if she wished to keep his love, she must
be largely trustful and generous in her interpretations
of his conduct, and not chafe him
by watching his moods and spying out shortcomings
in his affection. The open air, the
bright sun, and direct intercourse with such
nature as was to be found ' within the radius,'
soon restored her spirits to a certain amount
of buoyancy ; she was depressed, but by no
means despairing, ' I hope he love me still,'

she said ; ' I shall believe he does until it is
certain that he does not, and then  and then
I shall go, and I hope I shall be true to my
love, and never say one word to make him
unhappy. But I cannot  cannot think such
a martyrdom lies before me ! ' She sat down
on one of the seats, for she was beginning to
be tired. A nurse was sitting there already
with two little girls  pretty, interesting little
quick-eyed, quick-witted creatures  it was a
pleasure to Hester to watch them. She might,
perhaps, have enjoyed this harmless amusement
for twenty minutes, when a fair, placid-looking
lady came up and, bending over the nurse,
said, in a whisper loud enough to be overheard,
'Henderson, I often tell you how much I
dislike your sitting on these seats when you
are out ! I do wish you would remember
what I say ! How do you know what bad
character you may be sitting by ? Come ! *

Hester's face flushed scarlet. Those chance
words struck home with deadly precision, and
made her realise her position more than anything

that had ever yet occurred. They had
been uttered merely in indignation at the
nurse's disregard of a general order, and lead
no reference to Hester, whose appearance was
all that was modest and womanly. The lady
departed with her nurse and children. Hester
sat still, trying to recover the blow. ' I know
I have done wrong,' thought she ; ' but I do
not feel wicked  perhaps I ought  perhaps
God will never forgive me until I do ; but it
is hard to feel wicked when I know that I am,
and always will be, as true a wife to Godfrey
as if I were really married to him.'

She raised her eyes, and, though still at
some distance, saw Daylesford and two young
girls coming towards her. He was talking
gaily, and walking with a brisk, light step,
which betokened a light heart. He was walking
between them, talking most to the one on
his right hand, who was beautified and refined
as one of Raphael's Madonnas, while her sister
was a Eubens-hke beauty, with pronounced
features and vivid colouring. The first must

VOL. II. c

surely be the girl whom Hester most dreaded ;
how strange that she should appear just at this
moment ! Hester's heart died within her.
There was the woman who might possibly
win him away from her ! And not make
him happy!  was her next agonised thought.
Women can arrive at a very fair estimation of
each other's characters almost at a glance, and
Hester saw the truth. ' She does not love him,
but she will accept his love if he offer it, and
will go through life thinking little of the gift.
How cruel, how wickedly cruel and unjust it
is that that girl, who would marry any man
possessed of certain worldly advantages, should
come and take from me the only man in the
world I can ever love ! I wish Godfrey had
been a poor man, and I had been able to work
for him, and keep him all to myself ! Does he
really love her ? '

But there was no time to answer that, or,
at all events, poor Hester persuaded herself
that there was not, for she was not prepared
to face the situation if compelled to admit that

he did. They were now very near ; she
wished to leave the spot before he came up,
but dared not attempt to move lest her knees
should bow beneath her, as they do in dreams
when flight is the only means of safety. She
was obliged to remain where she was, but she
earnestly hoped that he would not see her.
They came nearer and nearer, and at last
were quite close. She had wished him to pass
without seeing her, but now it seemed so horribly
heartless and unloving of him to be able
to come-within a couple of yards of the place
where she was sitting, without being aware
of her presence, that she thought, if he did
so, it must break her heart. They were
laughing and talking gaily, and he was apparently
so well pleased even with the Rubens
girl, that Hester felt full of despair, for
she could see that something was making him
so happy that he was able to see good in
everything. He never saw Hester, but the
girl, who she instinctively knew was called
Josephine, looked at her with an interest which

c2

visibly deepened as she gazed. Either she
was struck by something in Hester's eyes, or
she had received some mysterious intimation
from her own soul, that there on that wayside
seat was one whose fate was linked with hers.
Even that gaze with its torture came to an end,
and they went on their way and soon disappeared
from her sight, but they left her full
of misery. And yet she was far from believing
him false to her. All that she feared was that
this beautiful Josephine occupied a dangerously
large place in his thoughts. 'Should I feel
this if I were married to him ? ' she thought ;
if I were, and we went to dinners and balls
together, I should have to make up my mind
to see him looking very happy with other
people ; but if we were married I should have
a claim on his love. If he took it from me fora
while and gave it to some one else, I should
be very miserable of course, but his house
would be my home, and I could stay in it and
love hmi all the same, and, somehow or other,
I think I should win him back again ; whereas

now, if he loves her, all that I can do for hmi
is to go away and never let him hear my name
again.' Her own thoughts tormented her so
that she could not sit still ; she hurried away as
quickly as possible to the more unfrequented
parts of the park, where, shunning every one,
she walked about for hours, thinking of the
dreary days which might be in store for her.
If she lost him she would be entirely alone in
the world, for she had not a single relative.
Besides, had it been otherwise, she never could
go back to them now. No ; she, a girl of two-ands
twenty, would find herself penniless and
friendless. She never knew how many miles
she walked that day, but at last, when the
light was waning, she, footsore and sick at
heart, began to return to the house which, upto
this time, she had called her home. That
morning's thoughts had destroyed her sense of
security on that point for ever. She was
beginning to know that it was but a house in
which she dwelt at the will of another. She was
there because Daylesford loved her ; when his

love came to an end, there was nothing left for
lier but to go. So she walked slowly back to
his house, envying the happiness of almost
every woman she met on her way. Some were
with their children, some walking arm-in-arm
with their husbands, and uttering the dullest
platitudes about the state of the weather or of
the roads ; but the men they walked with did
not seem to mind how foolish their remarks
were, and were not ashamed to be seen in their
company. Godfrey was ashamed to be seen
with her. What did that means It could
mean nothing but that to be seen with her
would be a disgrace to him. She could have
sat down on the steps of one of the great houses
she was passing as she thought of this, and cried
her eyes out. ' Is there no way of altering it ? '
she asked in her despair ; but, alas ! she knew
that there was none. If even he married her,
he could not now raise her, it would simply
mean that he must sink with her. His future
would be ruined. She had gathered so much
as that from some words of his own about a

certain friend of his. Almost every woman
would even then refuse to know her ; and Dales
was not the man to humble himself to
know men whose wives defined to know his.
If he married her, he and she would, for the
most part, have to be content with each other's
companionship ; and supposing, as she earnestly
hoped would be the case, that he were one day
to set about making some good use of his abilities,
this social difficulty would hinder him at every
turn. ' I knew I had done wrong to come to
him ; but I thought we should love each other as
long as wee Hved, and that that would make all
right.' This was her ever-recurring thought; but
the merest hint of Daylesford's changing his mind
shattered this theory which she had built up.
God help me ! What a thing I have done ! "
she exclaimed. ' I see no help on any side ! '

Her feelings were so overwrought and excited
that, when the servant opened the hall
door as politely and respectfully as usual, and
it closed on her without some one coming forward
to say, ' Go forth, this is your home 110

longer ! ' she found it difficult to restrain herself,
and felt as if she must throw herself down and
burst into a flood of happy, grateful tears.
She passed by the doors of the downstairs
rooms quickly ; Daylesford might be in one of
them, and she was not prepared to see him yet.
Unless, when she did see him, he should say
something decisive to her, he must not be
grieved by the knowledge of how she had spent
her day.

Half an hour afterwards, with all her tears
washed away, and no trace of past emotion
but an unusually calm restrained manner, she
went into the room where he was. He was
sitting with his back to her, not reading, not
doing anything, but looking into the fire.

You are thinking about something, Godfrey
 ' said she humbly, and hesitating to go
nearer ; she was beginning at every turn to fear
that she might possibly be an intruder.

Yes, I am thinking,' he replied ; ' I am
wondering what you can have been doing all
day.'

This reference to the bitterness of the
bitterest day of her life filled her eyes once
more with tears. Tears were out of the question
now  not for worlds would she have let
one fall in his presence. She was still behind
him, and with a sudden movement of her hand
she dashed them from her eyes, and by a great
effort kept back those that wanted to follow.
She could do that, but she could not speak in
her usual voice ; her words came slowly and
sounded rather solemn. ' You want to know
what I have been doing all day,' said she,
kneeling down by his side and taking his hand ;
I am not sure I can tell you that, for I have
done so little.'

Have you been thinking, too ? ' he asked
kindly.

'Yes.'

Of what?'

Of something that I should like to say to
you if I dared.'

Hester,' he said, startled by the gravity of
her tone, ' what is it . Surely you dare say

anything to me, dear ? ' and with his free hand
he gently tried to raise her head, which was
bent down, but she would not show her face.

Wait till I have said it,' she gasped ; ' it is
only a word or so.'

He laid his hand on her shoulder, and at
first his touch gave her courage, for it was loving
and protecting as ever, but the next moment
its very kindness seemed to unnerve her. If
she did not speak quickly she could not speak
at all.

My poor dear Hester,' said he, ' you have
been worrying yourself about something. Has
anything happened ? '

No, dear, nothing, only I seemed to fancy
you loved me less. That might happen, you
know,' said she sadly, ' and I must bear it if it
did. Godfrey, be good to me, and if ever it
does, don't shrink from telling me.'

It has not happened yet, Hester,' said he,
drawing her towards him.

'Thank God! Then promise to tell me
when it does.'

You are too much alone,' said he. ' How
can such a thing as that happen ? '

Promise to tell me if it does,' she persisted.

All right ! ' said he so cheerily that she
seemed to feel all her anxieties flying away
from her in a moment. She kissed the hand
she had been holding in hers, and a warm glow
of happiness began to steal over her. Then he
made her still happier by saying, ' Don't let us
talk of such foolish things any longer. I want
to give you an account of what I have been
doing all day. I went to Bond Street to see
how your pictures look, and then I went to
the club and wrote to Marmaduke and had
luncheon, and after that I walked home by the
park and met two of the Trehernes ; I joined
them and walked all the way home with them,
and by that time I thought it was high time to
come home to you.'

He had told her of his walk with Miss
Treherne ; he had been perfectly frank and
open about it, and he spoke of her just as he
would have spoken of any other acquaintance.

What a jealous, morbid, discontented fool lie
had been ! ' Godfrey,' said she very humbly,
you are far better than I am ! I am afraid I
have been unkind. Tell me something about
Miss Treherne ; tell me a great deal about her.
I saw her to-day. I saw both of them. I was
sitting on one of the seats in the park when
you passed by.'

He understood in a moment some part of
what poor Hester had suffered, and on the spot
sacrificed to her his intention to drop into the
Levity ' about ten to have a few words with
pretty Miss Zeph ; he had promised to go, but'
not for worlds would he pain Hester further.

I don't want to talk about her now,' he
replied ; ' another time I will. I want you to
hear about your water-colours ; that's what I
have been wanting to tell you all the time. I
have good news for you : two of them are sold.'

Sold ! ' exclaimed Hester incredulously.

'Yes, sold. I went into Winthrop's this
morning, and he has sold them.'

Hester's face was radiant. The sale of her

drawings seemed to set a seal on her success ;
her patient labour was rewarded.

Winthrop wants more. You are to send
him some more.'

My dear Godfrey, I am so happy ! ' said
she ; ' now I shall work twice as well as before.
Will he really send me twenty guineas ? '

'I dare say he will pare it down a little
before he parts with it, but he will send you
something that looks rather like that sum ; but
what do you want with twenty guineas ? '

Oh, don't laugh at me ! His paying me
anything at all is so delightful ! It makes me
feel myself quite an artist.'

After dinner they spent a thoroughly happy
evening in looking over folios of sketches and
choosing drawings which Hester should finish
for Mr. Winthrop. Daylesford himself sketched
fairly well, but Hester's love of nature was
much more intense than his, and she had
looked at her north-country mountains until
she knew them by heart. They criticised bits
of composition ; most of the scenes depicted

had associations for both which they dwelt on
with loving pleasure ; they had not been so
happy for months. Daylesford scarcely remembered
that he ought at that very time to
be at the ' Levity '  that he had promised to be
there.

Once, and once only, was the serenity of
the evening imperilled. Cheered by the success
of her drawings, and happy in Daylesford's
affection, Hester was emboldened to say something
which she would otherwise not have ventured
on. ' Godfrey,' said she, 'I wish you
would let me do something; it is a thing I
have often thought of, but until these drawings
sold I never considered my work good enough.
Let me do two drawings of Berkhampstead
I might do one of the castle, and the other of
the church, or both might be views of the
castle  I have never seen either, of course, but
I know from all the photographs you have
what good subjects they would be ; I want todo
them as well as I possibly can by taking
pains, and then I will give them to you, and

you shall send them to your brother. He
need never know who did them, of course, but
I am sure he will like to have them.'

Then, seeing that Daylesford was silent,
and, as it seemed, perplexed by what she was
saying, she began to hesitate too. 'Am I
saying anything foolish ? Could you not take
me there ? I thought you could do just as
you Heed there, and might perhaps take me
with you for a day or two next time you
went.'

We will think about it,' said he nervously ;
I should like it, I am sure. The Trehernes
are going, you know, when next I go '

Oh, Godfrey, I don't mean when they are
there ! Of course not then ! ' exclaimed
Hester, with burning cheeks and heart transfixed
by a fresh stab from her true love's own
hand ; but she was anxious to preserve the
happiness of this happy evening entirely unbroken,
and said, ' Let me go with you sometime
when you are certain to be quite alone.'

Impossible ! ' said he. * Hester dear,

don't ask such a thing. I could not do it  it
is not my house.'

You are taking the Tr eh ernes.'

Yes, I am, but ' and he could say no

more.

Once again that day she was brought face
to face with her true and utterly sad, base, and
most pitiable condition. What he meant was
that no honourable man could insult an absent
brother by installing his own mistress in their
ancestral home. For one moment after she
had realised in what a dilemma her request
had placed Daylesford, she felt as if she should
faint or die ; her heart utterly failed her. By
a mighty effort she mastered herself, and said,
Godfrey dear, I begin to understand ; I see
that you could not do it ! Don't distress yourself
about it ; I don't really wish to go there to
stay, but I do feel as if it would be a pleasure
to me to do some pretty drawings of the place
for your brother, whom, for your sake, I cannot
help loving ; and I will do them ; 1 will go
there some time without any one knowing who

I am, and I am quite sure you will humour
me, and send them to him as a present from
yourself.' And thus, by an effort which was
little short of heroic, did the unhappy girl
pretend not to remark that even the man who
loved her best was compelled, when honour
called on him to exclude from his brother's
house all persons whose presence would disgrace
it, to include her among the number.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIV.

HOPES OF SAND.

Poor girl ! put on thy stifling widow's weed,
And 'scape at once from Hope's accursed bands ;
To-day thou wilt not see him, nor tomorrow,
And the next day will be a day of sorrow.  Keats.

Daylesford's heart was deeply touched by
Hester's sufferings, and for ten days or more
he sought no opportunity of seeing Zeph.
This was by no means the first time that he
had made a strong resistance to the fascination
she was beginning to exercise over him. For
weeks after his return from Berkhampstead he
had, as the reader knows, neither gone to
Lome Gardens nor paid her any attention.
He had, as he told himself, cast his lot with
poor little Hester ; he felt that he had acted
very wrongly, to use no harsher word, but

he would abide by his own act and be true
to her. So he struggled manfully against
the strong attraction he felt to Josephine Tree


Had Hester's little success inflamed his zeal
for art, or was it simply good-fellowship that
made him take out his colour-box once more
and set to work ? She sat at one table with a
spirited sketch of the Castle of Bracciano
before her, he sat at another doing his best to
reproduce the blackness of the pine forests at
Ravenna.

Do you think Winthrop would ever care
to buy one of my sketches ? '-said he, holding
the one he was busy with as far as he could
from him, so as to judge of certain points of
composition.

Hester hastened to express her conviction
that Winthrop would be very blind to his own
interest if he did not.

I am afraid there is no chance of it,' said
Daylesford despondingly. No one enjoys the
luxury of turning an honest penny so heartily

D 2

as those who are rich. ' I should like to do
something really good. Do what I will, everyone
of my drawings looks pretty much alike ;
now each of yours has a distinctly independent
existence.'

Yours are very good indeed ! ' replied
Hester, ' but they would be better still if you
were like me, and there were only two subjects
on which you ever cared to think.'

What are your two . '

You ought to know,' she answered ; ' you
are one, and my painting is the other ; I don't
believe I ever think of anything else.'

Working as you do,' said he after a pause,
you will soon master all the difficulties of
painting, and then it will be nothing but an
amusement to you.'

Hester looked at him in much surprise, she
lead not expected him to say that. That speech
showed the difference between them. He was
not one to eat his heart in the struggle to conquer
something which resisted all attempts at conquest.
She would have worked like a galley-slave

to reach any goal she set herself. He
would have worked fairly well, but each day
would invariably bring an hour when he would
push away his drawing-board and say that he
had done as much as he felt inclined to do, and
must have a change. That hour had come
now, and the day was yet young. He had not
pleased himself with a sky he had been trying
to put in, but he had resisted discouragement
for some time; now he said, 'I am going out,
I am tired of this.'

 I mean to stick to my work,' said Hester.
Come and tell me what you think of it.'

It looks lovely ! I'd give a great deal if I
could get those effects as easily as you do.' He
always implied that Hester obtained her successes
by mere natural talent, and never took
into account how hard she worked. ' I am
going out,' he again said, but still he did
not go.

Where are you going? ' she asked.

Oh, nowhere in particular,' he replied.
'Indeed, I am not sure I shall go out, after

all.' He seemed always to be halting between
two opinions.

One morning he came into Hester's room
with a large blotting-book covered with crimson
velvet with the Daylesford arms embroidered
in gold on each side. It had a lock, and
its key was a marvel of intricacy, having little
indentations and big indentations, and various
subtleties of invention for the better discomfiture
of nefarious persons, though a lock was no
longer necessary, as the seams of its cover had
been cut open, and it now gaped in a somewhat
unsightly manner. ' There ! ' said he ;
'there, my darling, I present you with a
collection of photographs of Berkhampstead
Castle. They shall be your own, to have and

to hold for ' but here he stopped suddenly,

for he became aware that he was accidentally
straying into what must be unacceptable hearing
to her  the language of the marriage
service. This having to be so careful not to
hurt Hester's feelings was, however, a new
feature, and took away much of the comfort

of home life. 'Take them,' said he, as she
seemed to hesitate, ' take them. I have duplicates,
I dare say, and if not, I can easily get
some ; and there are two or three sketches and
things  you may have them too.'

Thanks, they are very pretty ; ' and then,
to put him at his ease about her wish to seethe
castle, she said, 'I'll try to work up two
good views of Berkhampstead from these
sketches and photographs ; how very kind of
you to give them to me ! But what has happened
to this pretty blotting-book ? ' she exclaimed,
for when she had it in her hand she
saw what a condition it was in.

Its seams have been cut open, that's all,'
he replied ; ' everything was more or less maltreated
a year or two ago, when we were
hunting for papers.'

This can easily be put right,' said Hester ;
its only the sewing that has been undone, I
see  I'll sew it again for you at once.'

Not for me,' he said, for he saw that she
admired the embroidery, and he felt that she

would be pleased if he gave the book to her 
perhaps because the family escutcheon was on
it, and having it, made her seem part of that
family  perhaps for some other reason. ' Doit
for yourself. I present it to you, with all
that it contains.'
- 'Thank you, it is lovely! I never saw
anything so well embroidered; but what a
shame to cut it to pieces in this way ! '

It was my father's ; if you hold one of th
pages of blotting-paper to the light, you will
see that he used it when he was writing his
last letter to his lawyer. Look, there is one
passage you can read quite easily; it seems
like fate that that should be preserved in its
entirety, while the rest is only fragmentary :
My poor wife, whom, strange as it may seem
after all that has passed, I sometimes think of
with a certain tenderness." There are two or
three other bits which can be read, but there is
nothing so connected as this. If the genuineness
of the letter had been disputed, that page
of blotting-paper would have established it. I

thought I was " getting very warm," as children
say, when I discovered it.'

I don't wonder you did ; but you ought
not to give this book away ! '

Oh, yes, I ought. Take it  I hate the
very sight of it  it reminds me of such a bitter
disappointment 1 We all thought that there
was a great chance of something being concealed
beneath the velvet, so we cut it open,
and soon saw a bit of white paper appear. I
can recollect now how my heart began to
thump against my side when I caught the first
glimpse of it.'

Poor dear Godfrey ! and what was hidden
inside it ? '

Nothing was hidden. There was nothing
at all but a lot of white paper. I suppose it
was put there to wedge out the velvet cover,
and make the embroidery stand up well and
look handsome.'

Of course you thoroughly examined the
papers ? '

Thoroughly examined them ! I should

think so ; we held them to the fire, we put
acids on them to bring out secret writing ; you
may see the stains and burns yet, for all the
paper is still inside the folio. Yes, that's it.
We did everything we could think of

But was there no writing ? Was there
nothing ? '

Nothing but that pen-and-ink scribble of
a plan of the castle which you have in your
hand

How miserably disappointing ! But don't
lose heart, dear, I am quite sure that you will
find what you are in search of. I have a
presentiment you will. It is only a question of
time.'

He could not but remark that Hester was
using the very same words that Miss Treherne
had used on that last day at the castle. It
was strange that they should both say the same
thing.

Miss Treherne said the same thing to me,
almost in the selfsame words,' said he.

Hester recoiled. She had not supposed

that he would talk to Miss Treherne on such
intimate matters as this  her eyes filled with
tears. She bent over her drawing to hide
them, she had not even a monopoly of the
right to console him. ' Perhaps I ought not
to begrudge him the comfort of having her
sympathy,' thought she, but it was impossible
not to feel pain. She felt shame too. ' I am
always jealous and suspicious and envious now.
I shall make Godfrey's life as miserable as my
own.'

'What does Miss Treherne do all day?'
she asked, for she wished to remove the impression
that she could not hear her name without
showing signs of emotion.

Nothing that I know of. She has never
been taught to do anything. She is like a
pretty silver shell cast on shore by the waves
on a bed of rough pebbles. She is quite different
from the rest of her family. I am very
sorry for her  very. I think I shall go and
see her, I want to know when that book of her
father's will be done.'

You are going to Berkhampstead when it
is,' said Hester, with faint apprehension in her
tone. ' Is she going too ? '

Yes, and so is her mother

Hester did not speak.

I shall not stay long myself,' said he reassuringly.
' You know I don't like being there.
I shall go backwards and forwards ; ' and then
he went out, and to the Tree ernes.

Somehow or other after this, Hester and
Daylesford had no more happy working days
together. Next morning, when she got out her
Bracciano, she as usual put out his Ravenna.
His pine forests looked black enough to
encourage any one who was straining after
blackness as a merit, but he never so much as
came into the room where his drawing was.
He read his papers downstairs, and then went
into the billiard-room and knocked the balls
about a little alone, after which he left the
house for the rest of the day, and he did the
same for a fortnight or more. Sometimes he
was out in the evening too. Hester was very

lonely and sad, and had not the heart to go
out. She worked hard at the drawings she
was busy with, and tried not to be uneasy, but
her heart was full of sadness and her spirit void
of hope.

At last Daylesford said, ' Hester, tomorrow
I am going to Berkhampstead.'

For Ions ? ' said she ; for though he had
told her he should only be absent four days
when last they had spoken of this visit, much,
alas ! might have occurred to make him change
his mind since then.

For four days at the most, perhaps only
three.' She breathed freely, and said, ' I daresay
it will do you good, dear.'

He thought he detected a faint accent of
resignation, and after a hasty glance at her to
see how she was looking, for he had not been
paying much attention to her appearance lately,
he said, ' Why don't you take a little run somewhere,
Hester ? Suppose you go to Brighton
for a week, or to some pretty place on the
Thames, and do a sketch for Winthrop ? '

If you are only going to be away for four
days, I'd like to stay here. If I went away fora
week, I should not be here when you came
home.'

I shall not stay longer,' said he decisively.
In four days I shall be back. You look as if
you were afraid of being dull  four days are
nothing.'

Hester wondered how these four days
would be got over  quickly enough if she
were sure he loved her as much as ever ; but
days of doubt and sadness have a way of seeming
as long as months.

I will write you two letters while I am
away ; one the day after I get there, and the
other you will receive the day I come home.
Come, won't that do ? ' said he cheerily.

That will do,' she answered gaily ; he was
so kind that she would be a wretch not to
respond. ' I shall miss you terribly, dear, but
I shall not be dull.'

No, you have your profession to follow
now,' said he, with an encouraging smile. She

smiled too and said, ' If you could give me a
piece of real hard work to do for you, it would
help to make the time pass more quickly than
it will otherwise. I should like to perform a
hard task for your sake, and to feel that every
bit of progress I made was bringing me nearer
to seeing you.' She was so sweet and so
tenderly devoted to him that Daylesford could
not help feeling that it was wrong to leave her.

You should have lived in the days of
witches and fairies,' said he, 'and then you
would have had a room full of flax to spin in
four days, or a lake as big as your own dear
Derwentwater to empty out with a tea-spoon.
What shall I give you to do ? I can't think of
anything.'

Hester could not think of anything either.
They had been such a short time in the house,
that everything was in good order. There
were no cupboards or bookcases with the
accumulation of years in the way of books to
dust and put in order. All was trim and new
and well arranged at Eleven Ambassadors'

Gate  there was no finding any occupation for
the demon of unrest.

I shall have to set you to spin ropes of
sand after all. I shall copy Lord Souls  you
shall begin tomorrow, and you shall spin them
till I come back.'

I hope you are bound to me by stronger
fetters than those  you won't stay more than
four days, dear ? '

I am certain that I shall not.'

When he went away in the morning, she once
more reminded him of his promise. ' This is
Tuesday,' said she ; ' you will be back ? '

'On Friday,' said he gaily, 'and you
shall have a letter on Wednesday and one on
Friday. Good-bye ; you have plenty of time
to write, so you may as well let me have a
letter every day ; ' and so saying, he went.

She did not feel so unhappy as she had
expected. Four days was a long time, but it
would pass by, and she no longer feared
Josephine Treherne. 'I will try to do the
Berkhampstead drawings for his brother,' she

thought, ' and then I shall feel more as if I
were with Godfrey.' She began to study the
sketches and photographs. It was but a poor
way of setting about a work of art, but she did
not know that. Her room was full of flowers
grown in the Berkhampstead gardens and
greenhouses  they helped her to realise the
aspect of the place.

Wednesday came. She hurried downstairs
expecting to find a letter on the breakfast-table,
but she was disappointed. ' I must have
made a mistake,' she thought, ' and he only
meant to write one on Wednesday ; I shall get
my letter on Thursday.' But Thursday also
brought her nothing. She wrote to him each
day, and bemoaned her letterpress condition.
He will see how miserable I am at not hearing
from him, and be sorry that he has forgotten to
write  my Friday's letter will be a doubly long
one ! ' But Friday brought her no letter at all.
It is very naughty of him, dear fellow,' she
thought, ' but I suppose, as he is coming home
to-day, he does not see the use of writing.

VOL. II. S

Perhaps lie is right, but I should have liked a
letter.' She ordered a dinner she knew he
would enjoy ; she took infinite pains to arrange
the flowers for the table : she dressed herself
in her prettiest dress, and wore an Indian
necklace he had given her on her last birthday.
He is coming to-day,' she said to herself; ' he
shall see how happy his return makes me ! '
Then she went downstairs and sat waiting to
hear the first sound of his carriage. But it was
beginning to grow late. The train ought to
have been in three quarters of an hour already,
but trains are often late, and it was a
long way to the station. Another half-hour
passed, and she began to think he must have
driven home, as he did the time before. The
servant came to ask if she would not have her
dinner.

No, I will wait for your master,' she
answered sadly.

'We all think my master is not coming,
ma'am,' said the man.

Why do you think so ? '

He never does come without sending'
notice, and Mrs. Mason has had none. She had
a letter from Mr. Carnegie this morning, but he
said nothing about coming back  he would
have been certain to name it if they had been
coming.' Mr. Carnegie was Daylesford's
valet.

Why didn't Mrs. Mason say so to me ? '
asked Hester. ' She might have done so when
I ordered dinner, and then I should not have
expected your master, and have had this disappointment.'


Please, ma'am, she didn't like  she didn't
know but what you had had a letter fixing the
time master would return. I said I had seen
no letter from him, and Thomas said the same,
but we none of us could be certain.'

Hester blushed painfully. How terrible it
was that the very servants should know that
she had not received a single letter from
Daylesford since his departure ! She could not
speak, she felt so humiliated. What must they
think of a woman whose husband treated her

E 2

with such indifference ? for she never supposed
that even the stupid little scullery-maid was
aware that she was no wife, and that one and
all they despised her, and only kept up the
fiction of her being Mrs. Daylesford because it
suited their interests to do so.

You had better have your dinner, ma'am,'
said the man kindly ; he could not help being
sorry for her. ' Everything can be kept warm
for master,' he added, seeing that she was not
inclined to yield.

I must not seem to make his coming home
of such importance ! ' thought Hester, and
down she went and pretended to eat. The
soup she had chosen because it was a favourite
with him seemed to choke her, and so it was
with all she ate. ' Is there a post from Berk-hampstead
in the evening ? ' she ventured to
ask at last ; ' I have never had a letter at night,
but there may be a post.'

There is none from the castle itself,
ma'am, but when it is important lo get a
letter here by the evening, the groom rides

over to the town  it's only a three miles ride
and then we get it.'

I shall hear in an hour,' thought Hester.
Godfrey will know what I must be feeling at
not seeing him, and will either send a man to
the post or go himself; so much kindness as
that I am sure he will show me.'

But he did not, nor was there any letter
next morning. ' That means he is coming today
! ' again said Hester, who was determined
to put the best interpretation on his silence.
The housekeeper came to hear what she would
have for dinner. Hester gazed at her as if
trying to read her inmost thoughts. She
watched every change of the woman's expression,
anxiously weighed each word she
uttered, hoping to see some look or hear some
word which would show that Mrs. Mason had
heard from her friend the valet, and knew
whether her master was coming that day or
not. Hester longed to be able to say, 'Has
Carnegie written to you ? Is your dear master
and mine coming home to-day ? ' Alas that.

for the sake of that wretched thing called
dignity, she must deny herself the comfort of
putting this question !

And yet it was answered, and abundantly
answered, by Mrs. Mason's demeanour. He
was not coming ! Hester knew it only too
well. Mrs. Mason had allowed her to order a
perfectly plain dinner, just what was wanted
to keep a poor little creature like herself alive,
and nothing more. She would not have done
that if her master had been coming home.
She would have said, * Excuse me, ma'am, but
Mr. Dajdesford likes this, or Mr. Daylesford
never seems to enjoy that when I have prepared
it for him.' Hester knew her ways so
well that she was convinced he was not coming
that day, and it was Saturday ; so now there
was no hope until Monday. Alas ! on Monday
his return was as uncertain as it had been on
Saturday. Days passed by, the four became
ten, and still he neither came nor wrote. She
grew pale and thin, and was too unhappy todo
anything. She could not write to Dales

How could she write when he no longer
loved her ? Once a day, and once only, she
roused herself, and that was to see Mrs. Mason.
That good woman's heart allied for the unhappy
girl whose face had, as she said, become
all eyes,' and who ' seemed to be hanging on
every word she opened her lips to say.' Mrs.
Mason knew what Hester was longing to hear,
and though she usually had a strong opinion
about ' such good-for-nothing creatures as that
young woman upstairs, being fit for nothing
better than being put upon the kitchen fire and
bm-nt ! ' yet, somehow or other, when she was
in the criminal's presence her heart was melted,
and she found herself wondering ' how a gentleman,
for to be a gentleman as Mr. Dales
really was, could take and treat a poor
girl he had once made so much of, so downright
badly as he was treating her ! '

CHAPTEE XV.

WHAT HAVE I DONE?

The sweet land laughs from sea to sea,
Filled full of sun.  Swinburne.
Piling roses upon roses evermore.  Browning.

In February, when everything was cold and
unlovely, Daylesford and the Trehernes had
travelled through frost-bound lanes to Berk-hampstead
; and now that beauty had broken
loose again, and all green things were rejoicing
in having freed themselves from encumbering
sheaths and being able to revel in sunshine
and soft air, the same party made the same
journey, but. they used the grim iron way.
Even viewed from the train, however, there
was enough to make a town-keeping girl inclined
to do nothing but gaze out of the
window. Zeph had never before seen the

country early in June. It reminded her of
the scenery of the ' Lyceum,' but was a thousand
times more beautiful ; and when she left
the train and began to drive through country
lanes to the Castle, and for the first time smelt
the perfume of wild roses and honeysuckle,
her delight was still greater. She felt all
the pleasure of a child, and wanted to stop
every minute to capture some particular rose,
being quite sure that it was an exceptionally fine
one, and that never again would she have a
chance of making such a beauty her own.
Daylesford humoured her as much as he could,
but Mr. Treherne was in a hurry to reach his
journey's end.

Zeph dear, don't admire any more roses
and want them,' whispered Mrs. Treherne,
while Daylesford was pricking his fingers in
the hedge.

I'll wear these dear crumpled-up pink
ones to-night,' said she ; ' and now I'll have no
more, thank you.'

Immediately after luncheon Mr. Treherne

begged, as the greatest favour which could be
shown hin, to be taken to the muniment-room.
What a contrast to the sweet fragrance
of hedgeside roses was the odour of mouldering
parchment which issued forth the moment
the strong door was unlocked !

How very disagreeable this damp smell
is ! ' said Daylesford.

Disagreeable ! ' echoed Mr. Treherne, snuffing
it up with much enjoyment ; ' it is delicious
! It may be from association, but I find
it delicious ! '

He was at work again in less than half an
hour, and yet if he had been asked about it, he
would have said that he had been obliged to
sacrifice a very large portion of the day to the
necessity of being polite to his host. He was
now going to work as a paid official  he was
to have so much per annum until his task was
completed, and probably no one employed on
such terms but an antiquary would have
insisted on cutting the period of employment,
and consequently the amount of his pay, short

by working so early, so late, and so continuously.


Daylesford was once more Zeph's only companion.
They strolled about the garden a
little before dinner, and a great deal afterwards ;
for there was light enough then to visit beds of
flowers, and half see them and half guess at
what they were by their scent, and Zeph liked
to explore tracts of shadow, and to wonder at
the length of time certain streaks of sunset
colour lingered in the sky, and at the immense
size of the castle as night stole on.

'How strong and bii and forbidding it
looks ! ' said she ; ' how terrible it would be to
be out here and to know that everything one
wished for was inside that great mass of
masonry, and that never by any chance could
one get in ! What black shadows it casts ! '

They strolled about the garden till they
were tired, and then they went in and talked
until they were tired again. Zeph slept soundly,
and at seven awoke to wonder where she was.
The garden was bathed in light mist, through

which the sun was struggling to make its way.
She could see Phillis Arnold's grave, with every
branch of the cypresses tipped by fresh green
shoots ; she could see the heavy-headed roses
bending under the weight of the dew ; she
could open her casement window and gather as
much white jessamine as she wanted. ' The
country in June is simply a paradise ! ' thought
she, 'and the country as seen from a castle is
something better still ! ' She sat gazing out of
her open window until the gong sounded.
Daylesford had been downstairs a long time,
hoping to renew the conversation of the night
before. Zeph liked talking with him very
much, but she never sought his society. She
looked as sunny as the day itself when she
entered the breakfast-room dressed in white,
and wearing a sprig of jessamine gathered from
her own window.

What a delicious day ! ' she exclaimed ;
I have never known such a day as this : have
you, Mr. Daylesford ? '

It was very beautiful, but he had known

many such  he could easily understand that
Zeph had not, for even the June sun cannot
work wonders, and must have something beautiful
to shine on if it is to make a good impression
; in Lome Gardens there was nothing.

You will find the garden and park a
thousand times more beautiful now than they
were when you were here before,' said Dales
to Mrs. Treherne.

But I did not see them when I was here
before, Mr. Daylesford,' said she, turning her
mild, slightly bewildered eyes on his. ' At
least, I only saw what was visible from the
windows.'

Didn't you ? To be sure, when you were
here before, it was much pleasant to take
your exercise in exploring the house.'

'But I did not see the house either,' lie
replied despondently. ' I almost think, if I
could make a little time, I should like to see
something of the principal rooms and picture
galleries this time.'

Daylesford was shocked  it had never before

occurred to Mm that this poor lady was
really too much of a slave. She was meek,
loving, and unselfish, and she reaped the usual
reward of such virtues  no one showed her
any consideration ; no one ever imagined that
it cost her any effort to practise them.

I shall have great pleasure in showing you
the house myself,' said he kindly, ' and the
garden and grounds too ; and as it is so fine,
perhaps Mr. Treherne will dispense with your
company awhile this morning ? ' Daylesford
was distressed to think of her having been shut
up in the library day after day with the
mouldy air of the muniment-room forcing its
way into her lungs for want of any better.

But Mr. Treherne did not look as if he
liked that arrangement.

You will spare Mrs. Treherne ? ' said
Daylesford ; ' you will be so busy, you won't
miss her.'

I shall be busy,' he replied severely.
Work was what brought me here, and it must
be done.'

Yes, of course it must, Edward ; I'll stay,'
began Mrs. Treherne.

Won't I do for once, father? ' asked Zeph.
I'd like to be of some use to you, and I never
shall if you don't teach me.'

I like your mother best ; but if she wishes
to go out '

I don't,' interrupted Mrs. Treherne. ' I'd
much rather '

I knew it ' began her husband.

Oh, but you must both of you humour me
for once,' interposed Daylesford. ' I can't give
up the pleasure of escorting Mrs. Treherne
about ; you really must let her come.'

Very well,' said Mr. Treherne reluctantly
I must make Josephine do, I suppose ; ' and
taking his daughter's hand in his, he led her
away.

Now let us begin our rounds at once,'
said Daylesford. 'Perhaps we had better do
the house first.'

My conscience tells me that I ought not
to take this step,' said Mrs. Treherne, with as

much earnestness as if she were about to elope
with her host. ' I really ought not ! '

Oh yes, you ought, dear Mrs. Treherne ;
I will not allow you to change your mind.
Miss Treherne will be able to do all that your
husband wants,' said Daylesford.

'That's just it, Mr. Daylesford; that is what
makes me anxious. In reality he wants almost
nothing, and I am afraid she will soon discover
that, and not have patience to sit idle as I
do.'

Don't think about them,' said Daylesford
You will see that all will go right.'

All did go right  Zeph never knew how
perhaps because her mind was so full of all
kinds of thoughts, that its activity was reduced
to the level of her mother's, and she was able
to find his pen, and tie up documents, or undo
knots, when he asked her, mechanically.

'You are a dear, good girl, Zeph,' said he,
after a while, with a bright smile of affection.
She was so delighted with this that she began
to understand what was the reward for which

her mother worked, and to feel that it would
not be absolutely impossible for her to bind
herself in the same fetters.

Luncheon-time came, but Mrs. Treheriie
was so tired with her unusual exertions that
she had a headache ; so, in spite of Daylesford's
efforts to lure Zeph out of doors, she would go
back to her father, and Mrs. Treherne went
to rest awhile. This was a great deal more
than Daylesford had bargained for. He
was anything but pleased. If she went
back to the library he foresaw that he should
see nothing of her till dinner-time, and he
followed her to the library door and told
her so.

I am sorry,' said she, ' but I must go.'

At any rate, we will have another walk
in the garden after dinner; promise me that.'

Yes,' she answered, and disappeared. So
he went to Berkhampstead on business which
would otherwise have been postponed.

About five, however, Mrs. Treherne felt
better, and returned to her post ; so Zeph went

VOL. II. F

to walk in the garden. She walked through
the grounds towards the church, and met Mrs.
Scatcherd coming to call on her.

'I heard you were here, dear,' said that
lady, 'and thought I would lose no time incoming
to see you. Don't offer to go in. I'll
walk about here with you; the air does one
good. I have had such a day with some of
those wretched boys ; but don't let us talk of
them. It is the greatest folly to talk of things
you want to forget, and yet people always
make a point of doing it. How lovely you
look ! How do you think I look ? '

Zeph returned her compliments, and asked
after the doctor and the Vincent, and what
Mrs. Scatcherd had been doing ; and then that
lady said, 'Why is Mr. Daylesford not with
you?'

Why should he be with me ? ' inquired
Zeph.

Young people generally do contrive to be
together. I saw him going to Berkhampstead
an hour or two ago. He is a nice fellow ! He

must be lonely, though ; it is a charity of all of
you to come here ! '

Oh, but we do not come in that way,' said
Zeph hastily; 'my father is arranging the documents
in the library  muniment-room, I mean
for him. He is engaged to do it, and I
don't see why Mr. Daylesford need be so lonely
he has relations ; there is a Mrs. Daylesford
who stays with him in Ambassadors' Gate 
why does not she come here with him ? '

'My dear!' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd, with
eager earnestness, ' you don't mean to say you
know about that! That's a thing I should
never have dreamed of naming to you if you
had not spoken of it yourself. How could he
bring her here? The whole neighbourhood
would be up in arms ; every one would cut
him!'

Has she done anything to offend them ?
Don't they like her ? ' asked Zeph, with perfect
unconsciousness.

Like her ! ' echoed Mrs. Scatcherd ; ' but
surely you cannot understand who she is ? '

r2

'That is just what I do not understand,'
said Zeph ; ' at first I thought she was his wife,
and then I thought she was his brother's, but
I am told that they are neither of them married.
Is she an aunt of his ? She might be an aunt,
only I thought he told me his father never had
a sister.'

Mrs. Scatcherd stared at her in amazement,
and said, ' Then you did not know, after all.
Well, the thing is half told now, so you may as
well hear the rest of it : she is a girl who lives
with him  they are not married.'

Zeph turned perfectly white  even her lips
were white. ' You must be mistaken,' she
stammered ; ' you really must ; she is called
Mrs. Daylesford ; I know she is ! '

That is nothing ! ' said Mrs. Scatcherd ;
what I have told you is the truth. Don't go
and faint about it  you look so ill, you frighten
me. I thought you knew, or I should never
have said anything. Every one knows, everyone
here was very glad when he paid you so much
attention at the ball, for they thought he was

perhaps going to break loose from this horrible
entanglement. I hope he will do so still ; it
will be the saving of him if he is really in love
with you, and then he will get rid of this
wretched creature. It seems she '

Hush, Mrs. Scatcherd ! don't tell me anything
about her,' said Zeph, making a great
effort to speak. ' Don't tell me one word more,
I ought not to have heard this. Excuse my
saying it, but I must not let you tell me Mr.
Daylesford's secrets ; my father was very angry
with me for listening to what you told me
before.'

I don't want to tell you any of Mr. Dales
secrets  I know none, indeed ; this is no
secret  every one knows it.'

And people go on knowing him . ' said
Zeph, with cold scorn.

Why not, dear fellow ? Of course no one
would be in the same room with her, horrible
creature that she is  that is a very different
matter! My dear, don't look so ill and so
unhappy  he is not the only man who is living

in this way ; the thing is common enough I am
sorry to say.'

Do not let us say another word about it
said Zeph. ' How is Dr. Scatcherd ? '

Oh, John is well  he is strong  it would
be a very bad thing for him if he were not ; but
,1 must say one word more, just one word. Do
not be unhappy about this, dear ; forget about
it ; the one thing to hope for is that our kind
friend should marry some good girl whom he
can love and respect.'

Zeph shuddered.

If ever you marry him,' continued Mrs.
Scatcherd, ' don't go and tell him of this conversation.
Promise me that.'

I marry him ? Never ! What do you
take me for ? ' said Zeph through her angry
tears.

Oh, dear, dear ! what have I done ? I
take you for a dear, good girl, who may be the

means of saving him Oh, here he is ! ' she

exclaimed in much alarm, for she saw Dales
shutting the churchyard door and beginning

to follow them as quickly as he
could.

I cannot see him ! * said Zeph hastily ; ' I
won't. I'll say good-bye and go in;' and
without giving Mrs. Scatcherd a chance of
detaining her, she hurried back to the house
much too quickly for Daylesford to overtake
her, and shut herself in her own room. Her
mother was in the library, there was no one to
whom she could speak. She did not shed one
tear, she no longer felt inclined to shed any.
She was stung to the quick. She felt disgraced
by his notice, ashamed that he should like her.
She had never once conceived it possible that
she could know a man of this kind. She would
henceforth avoid him. She would show him
that he was mistaken in thinking that she was
the kind of girl he liked. When the time
came to dress, she put on her evening dress
with stern calmness, and slowly descended the
stairs with her mother, for whom she had
waited.

Why did you run away when you saw me.

Miss Trelierne ? ' said Daylesford, with a most
injured manner, as soon as she entered the
drawing-room. ' I wanted to have the pleasure
of walking back to the house with you.'

I was tired. My head ached. I was in a
hurry to get back,' said she nervously but very
coldly.

He observed  no one could have failed to
observe  the coldness of her tone ; he searched
diligently for subjects of offence, but found
none but this : she was cross with him for
some implied reproach with respect to her conduct
to her mother, and angry at having been
forced to take her place in the library that
morning. It seemed very unamiable to begrudge
her mother the few hours' pleasure this
had procured her.

I am afraid your morning's work has tired
you,' said he.

'On the contrary, I enjoyed it,' replied
Zeph severely ; ' I hope father will always let
me stay with him.' The tone of her voice
again surprised him ; he thought it advisable

to plunge into general conversation ; he would
have it out ' with her when they had their
walk in the garden after dinner. But when
that time came she declined to go. She was
very sorry, but she had been out before dinner
and was tired ; and when Mr. and Mrs. Tree
retreated to the library at nine o'clock as
usual, she rose to go to bed, and avoiding
all opportunity of being alone with him, and,
as he thought, showing some repugnance to
shaking hands, she retired to rest. He sat
puzzling himself about this change in her demeanour,
and used up the time he had meant
to have given to writing to Hester in vain
efforts to understand it.

Next morning she was just the same, and
when her father went into the library she
followed him. ' Find me something to do,
dear,' she pleaded ; ' I liked being with you
yesterday, and want to stay here to-day.'

He stroked her hair and said, 'There is
work enough for all of us, my darling.' So she
sat down by the table, prepared to make notes

of anything he told her ; this gave her more
than enough time to think. Mrs. Treherne sat
by them, happy in their company.

I seem to have got hold of a letter that
does not belong to me said Mr. Treherne after
a while, doubtfully fingering one addressed to
Mr. Daylesford.

Don't disturb yourself about that, dear,
you will soon have a chance of giving it to him,
no doubt,* said Zeph, eyeing the letter and
the pretty writing of Mr. Daylesford's correspondent
with great disgust and dislike.

I was not thinking of doing anything,' said
he, with his usual accuracy. * He is sure to
come soon, let it lie till he does ; ' and so
saying, he returned to his work.

The neighbourhood of this letter disturbed
Zeph; she knew who had written it. She
flung a sheet of paper over it, and tried to
forget that it was there. After a while Dales
came and asked Zeph if she would go to
the conservatory with him, he wanted to show
her a very fine orchid which was now in bloom.

No, thank you,' said she ; ' not this morning.



Then I think I will ride over to ,' said

he, naming a place about twenty miles off.
Alas ! who was there to offer any objection to
this if Zeph did not P and she appeared to be
absolutely indifferent. He turned to leave the
room with an offended air. Zeph remembered
the letter which Mr. Treherne had
already forgotten ; she pushed it towards her
father.

Oh, Mr. Daylesford, I have carried off
one of your letters ! ' he exclaimed ; ' I cannot
imagine how, but do forgive me.' Zeph studiously
avoided seeing how Daylesford looked
when he saw the writing.

He did not return till late, and saw nothing
of the Trehernes till next morning. No one
seemed to have missed him. This was Friday,
the day he had promised to go back to London.
If things had been different he might possibly
have stayed where he was till Saturday, but as
it was he would go  he had been too unsettled.

to write to Hester, so lie would go  at all
events for a week or so.

I am going back to town by the five
o'clock train,' said he. Mr. Treherne was the
only one of the party who showed any interest.
You of course will stay here with Mrs. Tree
and your daughter as long as you can.
I will give the servants orders to look after
your comfort.'

Zeph insisted on accompanying her father
and mother to the library when they went,
and there she would probably sit in dulness
and comparative idleness while the sun shone
brightly and all outside that room was gay.
Daylesford made no attempt to prevent her 
he knew that it was impossible. While he was
wondering how to employ himself, Dr. Scatcherd
came to ask him to go to Oxford with him for
an hour or two. Why not ? he could go back
to London from Oxford. So Carnegie was
ordered to pack his master's portmanteau, and,
after a few words of farewell to the Trehernes,
he went.

The ' Times ' did not arrive at the castle
till noon ; soon afterwards the butler brought
it to the library to Mr. Treherne with a grave
face. ' I want to show you this, sir,' said he.
I am afraid my master will be in a terrible
way! '

It was a telegram in large print : ' Appalling
earthquake in the Icarian Islands ! Alarming
loss of life at Santa Eulalia ! Grave apprehensions
as to the safety of the Governor ! Government
house in ruins ! Repeated shocks ! '

Pale as Mr. Treherne always was, he turned
paler. 'The Governor is Mr. Daylesford's
brother,' said he in a dismayed voice ; and
then he and his wife and daughter huddled
together over the paper to see if they could
extract a ray of hope from it. Two large
round tears rolled down Zeph's face. The meagre
words of the telegram conveyed nearly as much
as the complete account ; the rest was mere
amplification.

Do you think that there is any hope of
his being rescued alive from the ruins of his

house ? ' lie asked. Iso one dared to hope
much, but there might be room for hope. A
shock had fallen on the Trehernes. Zeph
could do nothing but weep silently ; even Mr.
Treherne could not work well. The evening's
post brought two letters from Daylesford, one
to Mr. Treherne, one to Zeph. He read his
aloud : ' A crushing blow has fallen on me.
My dear brother may be dead. I am going at
once to Santa Eulalia. I shall cross by tonight's
boat.' It was written in pencil, and
bore marks of extreme haste.

Did you say that you had a letter from
Mr. Daylesford too, Zeph?' asked Mr. Tree


Yes, dear ; I'll tell you what he says.'
But when she opened it she seemed much
confused, and at last said, ' I was wrong. No,
I have not had a letter from him.'

Presently she stole away to her room. The
letter was addressed to her by Daylesford in
pencil, as was that to her father, but when
she had opened it she read, 'I cannot come

home to-day as I promised, for I must at once
go to Santa Eulalia to ray brother. The newspapers
will tell you what has happened. Dear
Hester, ever yours.

CHAPTEE Xii.

THE PENCILLED LETTER.

Best of my life, farewell, since we must part,
Heaven hath a hand in it.  Duchess of Malt.

No, no, you have dismissed me, and I go

From your breast houseless ; ay, it must be so. Keats.

On July 15, five weeks after the day when he
went to Berkhampstead with the Trehernes,
Godfrey Daylesford once more entered his
London house. He did so feeling much apprehension,
for he had not received one hne
from Hester since he had left England, and
yet he had sent her both letters and telegrams.
' How is your mistress ? ' were his first
words.

Thomas looked blank. First he stared at
his master and then at Carnegie, but he did
not attempt to answer. Daylesford repeated

the inquiry. ' Better speak to Mrs. Mason, sir,'
said he ; ' she knows best.'

Mrs. Daylesford is not here, sir,' said that
personage, when she appeared in answer to
his summons ; ' she left ten days after you did,
sir. She seemed much cut up about receiving
no letters, sir.'

Letters ! ' exclaimed Daylesford sharply ;
she must have received letters ; I wrote to
her before I left England to tell her why I
was going, and I wrote again soon afterwards.
Besides, she had telegrams from me.'

'None of them came here, sir; at least not
while she was here. A telegram came about
ten minutes after she had left the house;. you
will find it upstairs on Mrs. Daylesford's
sitting-room table, sir, and three letters from
you which came after it. But she never saw
any of them. We none of us knew you had
left England, and we didn't know, for sometime
after you were gone, what an alarm you
had had about the Governor's safety. That,
sir,' said the housekeeper, who was glad to

VOL. II. G

take this opportunity of airing a grievance of
long standing, 'was because of all the newspapers
going direct to the castle as soon as
you went, instead of coming here.'

Did Mrs. Daylesford not know that atone
time I was afraid my brother was
killed?'

'No, sir, she did not. She never went
out of the house all that time, so she had
not even the chance of getting to know from
seeing the placards, and no one came here to
tell her any news.'

But what must she have thought ? '
Mrs. Mason shook her head, and eagerly
seized this opportunity of making him uncomfortable.
'She was terribly unhappy, sir.
The sight of her when she used to watch my
face to see if I knew anything about you, or
when you were coming home, was quite enough
to break one's heart. She was so quiet and
gentle, and so full of trouble.'

But how did she go, and where ? '

I can tell you how, sir, but I cannot tell

you where. She sent for me one morning, and
said, " Mrs. Mason, I have decided to leave
this house."

'"A change will do you good, ma'am," said
I, though I felt sure she did not intend to come
back.

" Perhaps it will," said she, making up
her mind to let me think she was only going
away for a time. " Will you take one of the
maids with you, ma'am ? " I asked. " I can
easily spare you one while every one is away."
"You are very kind  most kind," said she
humbly, " but I must go alone. May Thomas
get me a cab . "

" Will you not use the carriage, ma'am ? "
said I. She shook her head very sadly, and
said, "JSTo, not the carriage, let me have a cab."
So I sent for a cab, and then I went upstairs
again to see if I could be of any use to her, or
show her any kindness. She was walking
round and round her sitting-room, wringing
her hands and looking at the books and
pictures. I said a few words of sympathy

g2

of some sort, I hardly know what, she made
me feel so sadly. But she spoke up very
quickly and said, " Don't pity me, Mrs. Mason,
I cannot bear it ; please don't, or you will
make me cry." There were two small parcels
on the table addressed to you. " Mr. Dales
will find them when he comes home," said
she, in a trembling voice. " May I ask you
where you are going, ma'am ? " said I ; " there
may be letters to forward." " Oh no, he won't
write now," said she ; " but post this letter
when I am gone, and it will give him my
address." And she gave me a letter addressed
to you at Berkhampstead. Perhaps you have
had it, sir ? '

JSTo, I have not ; no letters have been
forwarded. Do you suppose it is still there ? '
asked Daylesford hastily, and he rang the bell.
Thomas,' said he, ' go at once to Berkhamp-
stead. If the trains suit, go by rail ; if not,
ride ; but you must be back here to-night. I
want all the papers and letters which are lying

there for me brought here at once.  And now,
Mrs. Mason, have you anything more to tell
me?'

Nothing but things of the same kind, sir.
She went on walking about and taking notice
of all the things she had been used to see and
to care for, until the cab arrived, and then she
came to me. She held out her hand and said,
Good-bye, Mrs. Mason ; you have been kind
to me when no one else was, and I shall never
forget it." But when she stooped down and
kissed my poor old hard-working hand, you
might just have knocked me down with a
feather, sir, for all I am such a big woman.
She hadn't been gone ten minutes before a telegram
came which we made sure was from you,
sir. Poor lady, it came too late. I was miserable
all that day, and the next, and so I
am still, whenever the thought of her comes
into my mind.'

Did she leave no letter for me ? '

'No, sir, none here. She wrote to the

castle, where she made sure you were. That
is all I have to tell you, sir, except that I wish
to leave you this day month.'

Daylesford, who was thoroughly conscious
of the reprehension she meant to convey, went
upstairs, wondering whether she was taking
her departure because Hester had been there or
because she had left. Her sitting-room looked
very desolate. Every article of furniture was
in its exact place. Three unopened letters and
one telegram from himself were arranged with
symmetrical precision on the table ; other correspondents
she had none. There were two
parcels addressed to him. One was a flat one,
which he opened. It contained two sketches
of Berkhampstead. The other was a small key-box.
It opened by a secret spring with which he
was familiar, but there was nothing in it but
keys. She had left all the books he had given
her, and the pictures on the walls were hers
too. Daylesford was miserable. Instead of a
happy home-coming, he had returned to a
house filled by a haunting sense of the suffering

and sorrow he must have brought on an
unhappy girl who had none to show her any
kindness if he stood aloof.

Even if Daylesford's grief and regret had
not been too acute to allow him to settle down
to any occupation until his messenger returned,
he was not a man who had much power of
finding employment for himself on the spur
of the moment. He began to wish he had
gone to Berkhampstead himself. ' But no,'
he thought, ' I ought to stay on the spot, to
be ready to go to her at once when I get
her letters and learn where she is. I might
have lost some time if I had gone there and
had seen the Trehernes, By-the-bye, I suppose
they are there. It is strange how little I know
about every one. I think I will go and ask in
Lome Gardens. I have time to do that before
dinner.' He hailed a hansom, and soon was
there.

Master and mistress and the eldest young
lady are away in the country,' said the maid,
'staying in a nobleman's castle. The two

young ladies are at home, and so is Miss
Seaton.'

Daylesford remembered that Mrs. Treherne
had told him that she had invited Miss Seaton,
a cousin of hers, to take care of her daughters
while she herself was away, and how astonished
he had been that it should have occurred to
the Treherne mind that such a step was at all
necessary. He thought he would go in and
ask news of the family  it would help to pass
the time. The three ladies were at work. It
was evident at the first glance that Miss Ever-illa
Seaton had improved the girls' appearance.
They were quietly dressed, and their manner was
not so hoydenish as before. Miss Everilda (as
she liked to be called) was a small, bright-looking,
bird-like lady, of forty or thereabouts,
with large blue eyes and a profusion of light
brown hair. She had very pretty white hands
and a very sweet voice. Her manners were
even too refined and elegant, and her sentiments
were often much above the range of her
fellow-mortals.

Yes, sallier and mother and Zeph are still
at Berkhampstead,' said Polly, ' and being so
long away has done them so much good ; they
do look so well. And do you know, Mr.
Daylesford, Zeph is looking quite pretty ! '

Daylesford smiled ; he expected that when
he saw Miss Treherne he should feel inclined
to use much stronger language than this.

And, Mr. Daylesford, what do you think ?
No, you can never guess. We have all been
to Berkhampstead while you were away. We
never enjoyed anything, so much in our lives.
We went for a long day, and spent it with Zeph
seeing the park and the castle. Miss Everilda
went with us, and she thought everything
beautiful too, and you know she has seen a
great many more beautiful places than Agnes
and I have.'

It was most beautiful,' sighed Miss Ever-illa
; ' most ideally beautiful. Such a park !
Such a pleasaunce ! Such lovely green glades !
The place quite inspired me, and I felt as if I
could have written a poem worth something.

But it's no use ; I am such a poor tongue-bound
creature ! I have all the fine ideas, but I
cannot bring them out  I cannot bring them
out ! '

I feel so sorry that this visit took place in
my absence,' said Daylesford politely, ' but I
do hope you will consent to repeat it.' All
three expressed much gratitude, and all three
looked charmed with him and the kindness of
his manner.

We were so glad when we heard of the
Governor's safety, Mr. Daylesford. You must
have been terribly anxious. What a miracle
his escape was ! '

How did it really happen ? ' asked Agnes.

'At the moment of the earthquake he
started to his feet and got as far as a strongly
built doorway, and the walls fell on both sides
of him, leaving him standing upright and safely
built in. Of course the great danger came
when he had to be dug out. He really had a
very narrow escape ! '

What a subject for a great dramatic picture

! ' exclaimed Miss Everilda. ' I see it all
Ms grand figure standing nobly unmoved
amid the wreckage of his home  his heart
feeling nothing on his own account, but dread
of what you must be suffering.'

He must have wanted to get out though,'
said Daylesford, with a kind smile.

Ah, yes, to be useful to his distressed
subjects. I see it all  I feel it all. But it's
no use my seeing or feeling things so vividly ;
when the time comes to write, my ideas vanish,
and every faculty I have is benumbed.'

Would you mind telling us something
about the island which your brother governs ? '
asked Polly, with signal disregard of the would-be
author's lamentations. But Polly was always
practical.

He governs five or six, but he lives on the
principal one, which is called Santa Eulalia.
When I first saw it early in the morning of a
very bright day, it looked baked white in the
heat. We were in the harbour, and were not
allowed to land till the captain had gone on

shore and proved that we had a clean bill of
health, so I had time to inspect all that was
left of the town from the harbour. Father
ugly tall houses were built irregularly about
the shore, and there was literally not one left
standing that had not one or two great zigzag
rifts and cracks in its walls ; of course many
were nothing but heaps of stones. The inhabitants
were all camping out on the hills in funny
improvised tents, and every time a cock crowed
or a bell rang, they believed another earthquake
was coming.'

Did you not note down your thoughts ? '
inquired Miss Everilda. ' You could have
described it adequately. You are not like me
I have the thoughts, but I never can bring
them out.'

I had no particular thoughts beyond the
fact that the earthquake must have been a most
appalling thing, and that I was very impatient
to see my brother. But he soon came, and we
set quarantine regulations at defiance.'

Every one was silent for a moment. Then

Miss Everilda spoke. 'Ah, Avhat sights you
must have seen as you went through the town
with him ! Once happy homes turned into
heaps of stone, great forest trees lying uprooted
! '

Oh, no,' interrupted Daylesford, 'there
are no forest trees on those islands  there are
never-ending hedges of aloes, but no trees to
speak of.'

'That, too, conjures up great thoughts.
But, Mr. Daylesford, did you see no sign of the
dread enemy but the wrecked houses P Were
there no vast chasms which revealed the interior
of the earth smouldering in a red glow?'

'There were any amount of little bits of
sulphur lying about, which were mightily
suggestive of the bottomless pit, but I expect
they are always there, and I saw hot springs
bubbling up, but they are always there too.'

Oh dear, oh dear ! You are sure you
wrote nothing? Even I, hearing it all only
second-hand, feel inspired. Not that it is any
use ; more's the pity ! ' she added mournfully.

Daylesford beat a retreat, and yet he hated
going back to Ambassadors' Gate so much that
he could almost have stayed where he was.
His messenger did not return until late. He
brought a number of letters, among which
were four from Hester. The last of them contained
these words :

I am leaving this house for ever, to-day.
I have waited and hoped for some sign that
this step was unnecessary, but your silence
answers me, and tells me that the time has
come when I must go. I am so unhappy as to
have lost what was more to me than all else,
your love. I sometimes wish you had spared
me so many days of cruel suspense, and had
told me at once what had befallen me. Dear
Godfrey, let me call you so for this last time, I
do not blame you. I know that this has net
come to pass without you too having your share
of suffering. Let me thank you for all your
great kindness to me. Do not be unhappy
about me ; I shall work very hard and try to
be content. I shall always think kindly of

you. I have taken two or three of the books
you gave me, and the colour-box, and all I
need for my work. I thought you would like
me to do this, and I like having these things.
I have left the ornaments you gave me. I
shall never want ornaments again, nor ever
care to look well in the eyes of any one, now
that you do not love me. Do not attempt to
send me any of the things I have left. I am
going where you cannot find me, and I would
rather not have them. Good-bye. Thank
you once more for all you have been to me. 
Hester

Then there was one despairing clutch at
hope in the shape of a postscript. ' Supposing
that by any chance there has been some dreadful
mistake, and you still love me, put an
advertisement in the second column of the
"Times" with these words : "Hester, you were
wrong." I shall look in the " Times " everyday
for three weeks.'

This letter, alas ! had not even been seen
by him until the three weeks named by poor

Hester were gone by, and more than gone by.
Her weary eyes had sought the longed-for
announcement in vain. ' I can still do it,' said
he, ' and I will.' Then he looked at the other
letters. He opened one which had not gone
through the post, and found in it an envelope
addressed to Miss Treherne, The Castle, Berk-hampstead,
in his own writing in pencil ; only
the ' Miss ' had been torn off, leaving it doubtful
to v/hom the letter had been directed.
When Daylesford drew the letter out of this
envelope, he saw that it was that which he had
hastily written in pencil to Hester to tell her
that he was going at once to Santa Eulalia.
This explained everything. Hester had never
received one line from him since he left Ambassadors'
Gate to go to Berkhampstead. He in
his grief and confusion had addressed his letter
to one of the Trehernes, and every letter he
had written since he went abroad was lying
unopened on the table upstairs. She had
indeed been cruelly used ! After a while,
though with much indifference to their contents,

he opened some of the other letters. There was
a warm little note of congratulation from Mr.
Treherne on his brother's safety and his own
return, and as a postscript the words, ' I am so
delighted that you had the happiness of finding
your brother well.  Josephine Treherne.'

These words pleased him more than he
could have believed possible. And yet he put
the note which contained them on one side,
and once more took up the pencilled letter
which had never reached its destination. He
little knew what an amount of embarrassment
and trouble it had caused Zeph before it had at
last found its way into his hands. Somehow,
when he thought about it, he forgot to wonder
how it had gone wrong, or who was the person
whose name he had written on the envelope
instead of Hester's ; he thought only of Hester
herself, and left all else on one side. If Zeph
could but have known that this would be the
case, what anxiety she would have been spared !
She had felt that it would be wrong to destroy
the letter, and yet she did not wish to be sup-vol.

II. II

posed to have seen it. She dared not tell her
father or mother about it, and did not choose
to take Mrs. Scatcherd into her confidence.
She longed to solve the difficulty by flinging
the wretched bit of paper into the all-purifying
element, fire. Let it shrivel away out of sight,
together with other dark and unlovely things.
Ignorant as Zeph was, she knew that it would
be wrong to do this, and the possession of these
hastily written words, intended for the eye of
another, disturbed her. Ought she to return
the letter to Mrs. Daylesford ? She could not
bring herself to do so, even without a v/ord of
explanation. To the housekeeper at Ambassadors'
Gate, then ? That would not be the
same thing. Besides, her own name. Miss
Treherne, was written on the envelope, and the
person to whom she forwarded it would know
that she must have read it, for there was nothing
to show for whom it was meant until the
very end, where the name of Hester occurred.
Zeph knew that she ought not to destroy the
envelope in which it had been sent, for that

was wanted to show how the mistake had
arisen. She had no peace until she had decided
to tear off the ' Miss ' and leave the name of
Treherne ; that would tell him the letter's
history sufficiently, and he would surely not
dare to ask more. Having done this, she had
enclosed the letter in an envelope which she
addressed to Daylesford in writing as unlike
her own as she could contrive to make it,
and laid it on the hall table, knowing that the
butler would carry it away, either to forward
to Santa Eulalia with other letters, or to keep
until his master's return, according to the instructions
he might have received. That done,
though she had no idea that Hester's only
chance of ever receiving a letter from Dales
again depended on how this scrap of paper
was treated, she felt as if a weight were
removed from her mind. And yet she could
never forget the chill that had come over her
when she had found what she was reading. Now,
after weeks of delay, it had come back with its
errand unsped, to the man who had on that

day of anguish been so glad to give a guard on
the railway a sovereign for an inch or two of a
well-used pencil and some writing-paper.

That very evening, July 15, Daylesford
wrote to the ' Times ' authorities, and requested
that the four words which had been chosen by
Hester should be printed in the second column
of that paper for three weeks. Then he went
to Winthrop's. Winthrop was the man who
would probably be able to give him the information
he wanted, for on Winthrop Hester
no doubt depended for means of livelihood.
Daylesford now asked Mr. Winthrop if he had
any more of Miss Langdale's drawings.

No, sir,' said he ; ' I am almost surprised
she has not sent me some. I was not long in
disposing of those she sent me before, and I
have had one or two gentlemen in my place
who have taken a good deal of notice of them.'

Have you had no communication with her
since she brought them, then ? '

None but sending her a cheque.'

This was a thoroughly unproductive visit,

for Daylesford could learn nothing more. The
advertisement, too, brought no response ; it
appeared day after day, but all in vain. After
five or six days had gone by, he began to feel
assured that he had lost sight of her for ever,
and he sometimes felt bitterly ashamed that
this conviction did not make him more unhappy.
And yet his house, which was filled
with traces of her former presence, was most
painful to him. She had taken away with her
all her clothes, and every scrap of paper which
could have revealed that such an occupant as
herself had ever resided in the house. She
had done this with such care that it must have
been done designedly, and for his sake, and she
had left things which when he gave them to
her had made her cry with pleasure. These,
however, were in all cases things on which no
mark had been set which could prove that they
had been hers. He did not like his house now
that she was gone, and he could not raise his
eyes from the ground without seeing something
which brought an accusation against him. He

spent most of his time at the club, and only
went home to sleep, but when a week had gone
by in this way he was tired. Sometimes, almost
to his horror, he even found himself thinking
that it was better that he should never discover
her.

And yet it was strange that there was no
reply from Hester. She had kept her word
and gone where he had no chance of ever
finding her. He began to give up all hope.
Still he would continue to advertise. It was
dreadful to think to what straits she might be
reduced.

CHAPTER XVII.

A Seeing OF PEARLS.

Peu d'oeiivrage donne beaucoup d'amourpropre, beaucoup
de travail donne infiniment de modestie.  Balzac.

Miss Everilda Seaton lead a large acquaintance
among editors of magazines and weekly
papers  at least she thought she had. Perhaps,
as she generally introduced herself to these
gentlemen by sending a copy of verses, and
they kept up the acquaintance by writing to
decline her contribution ' with thanks,' the
friendship may not be considered warm ; but
as she always encouraged their advances by
sending more verses, and as they always responded
precisely as they had responded before,
it might in one sense be said never to languish.
You see,' said she to any friend who happened
to be at hand, * these editors are particularly

kind to me. They always make a
point of answering me themselves, and they
never fail to use a nice adjective when speaking
of my poor little efforts to express my thoughts.
If they chose to be disagreeable, they might
take no notice at all of me, but somehow when
they write they seem to write so gratefully.
It's the next best thing to being a successful
author, to have so many of these nice kind
refusals ! '

Having so many friends among the literary
classes, Miss Everilda was quite delighted when
a friend of hers, who had married an eminent
publisher, asked her to a garden party on July
30, where she was sure to see not only authors,
male and female, but those much more important
persons the publishers, who can, by merely
giving an order, advance battalions of type to
help you to rule in the republic of letters.
The garden party was to be followed by a
dance, and Mrs. Kennedy gave her old friend
permission to bring with her her two young
cousins, Mary and Agnes Treherne ; for be

it known to all who like to hear of instances
of the wonders worked by woman's quiet
influence, Miss Everilda had banished what
she was pleased to designate the odious and
unseemly appellations, ' Polly' and ' Aggy.' The
elegant-minded Miss Everilda had completely
triumphed over these two rough girls. When
first she came to Lome Gardens it had been
quite on the cards that they would act on the
impression that their mother's cousin had been
sent with a special eye to their amusement.
But Miss Everilda was kind. She pitied them
for being so ill-dressed and looking so awkward,
and being rich, did not content herself
with pity, but paid for dancing lessons for
them, discovered that they had good voices,
and gave them singing lessons, and bought
them some pretty dresses. Of course the old
Polly and Aggy were not entirely exterminated,
that would have been impossible, but their
worst vulgarities were banished, and a fine
coat of varnish was put over the rest. If Miss
Everilda had heard any of the doubtful 

THAT OTHER PERSON

]sessions of other days they would have pained
her inexpressibly ; but she never did, and
never so much as suspected to what depths
lier young cousins had erewhile descended.
The Kennedyss lived in St. John's Wood.
Their house stood in a large garden. It was
a half-wild garden, with a few fine trees
standing in a tangled mass of ivy, and there
were banks of ferns which the Kennedyss were
fain to persuade themselves were doing well in
London, and had entirely forgotten that only
a year ago they had been feasting on fresh
air and revelling in damp in a lovely Devonshire
lane. They looked very well in the
garden at Green Bank, for the abundant stock
of life and health they had brought up to
town with them was still sufficient to supply
them with vigorous new fronds. It was a
very pretty garden, with a large lawn in the
centre and broad walks all round it, overshadowed
by trees. When the Trehernes
entered with Miss Everilda, the lawn was
covered with people who were standing in

little groups, talking or silently watching a
very well-played game of tennis. Agnes had
never been to an entertainment of the kind
before, and her surprise was so great that she
exclaimed, ' Oh, my dear Miss Everilda, what
a number of delightful-looking people ! '

Indeed there are,' said Miss Everilda.
Oh, here is Louisa  Mrs. Kennedy, I mean.
How are you ? How kind you are to let me
bring my young cousins ! Don't forget, my
dear Louisa, that though I aija a frequent
correspondent of several of your literary friends,
I don't know any of them by sight. Is the
editor of the " Abstract Hour " here ? Do introduce
me to him if he is, and I should
like to be introduced to the editor of " Culture
" too. He has been so kind to me, he
has written me such nice encouraging letters
at least, he has gone far towards turning the
cold formal notice they send out, into letters,
by his pleasant and complimentary choice of
words.'

They are both here somewhere, I saw them

five minutes ago. Oh, that is Mr. Forester,
standing by the fountain with  I don't know
who is with him ; they are watching the
tennis.'

Watching the tennis ! Well, I suppose he
must unbend sometimes,' said Miss Everilda
discontentedly. She thought it was unworthy
of a denizen of the heights of literature to
watch tennis.

He is generally unbent when I see him.
Come and be introduced. By-the-bye, ,
if I were you, I don't think I would
mention having corresponded with him.'

Oh, but I must. It would be most ungrateful
not ; besides, it seems kinder to spare
him the trouble of racking his memory about
me ; he is sure to remember my poem, but
may have partly forgotten my name. Introduce
me, dear, do.' And the poor little lady
looked at her friend's face in eager anxiety to
know if this crisis in her fate were actually
close at hand or not. Her manner was so
nervous and her gaze so appealing, that Mrs.

Kennedy could not but feel pity for this upper-class
member of the great body of the unemployed.
' Come, dear said she. and began to
move slowly towards Mr, Forester, but she
stopped on the way to introduce Mary and
Agnes to some nieces of hers. Then they
walked on towards the fountain ; but halfway
there Mary exclaimed, 'Agnes, just look, do
look, there is John Simonds ; how nice he
looks, but how ill ! '

Oh, please do not stop now,' said Miss
Everilda ; ' do let me go with Mrs. Kennedy
now while she can stay with me, it is so important.
We can go and speak to your friend
afterwards.' So they hurried on, and the
introduction was performed. For one moment
Miss Everilda gazed on Mr. Forester as if the
rugged steeps of Mount Parnassus had suddenly
been smoothed and laid down with soft o-reen
turf for her weary feet ; then she said in a low
and nervous voice, ' I have so wished to be
introduced to you.' He braved and looked
down in surprise on the fair-complexioned.

blue-eyed, good-looking lady, dressed in delicate
grey, who seemed to attach so much importance
to possessing his acquaintance. She
was so obviously in earnest, and her manner
was so timidly eager, that though, man-like, he
felt a burning desire to get away from what
promised to be a conversation of an unusual
kind, he still felt interest and a certain unaccountable
pity.

'It was so very kind of you to send me
those few words of encouragement  about my
String of Pearls," you know.'

Mrs. Kennedy saw that Mr. Forester had
not the least idea what Miss Everilda meant,
and said in a low voice, ' Something Miss
Seaton sent you for the magazine, I think ; '
then her attention was claimed by some one
else, and John Simonds had come up to speak
to Mary and Agnes, so Mr. Forester was left
with his tormentor.

'Yes,' said she, glad of the help Mrs.
Kennedy had given her ; ' a little poem I sent
you.' (Untrained writers always talk of their

poems ; a poet contents himself with calling
them verses.) 'I christened it "A String of
Pearls," because, you see, it was rather like a
string of pearls. I have the thoughts, but find
it so difficult to give them expression ; I am
shy even with myself. I did somehow manage
to utter some small part of what I was feeling,
but not in the regular connected way that anyone
of a less timid and sealed-up nature could
have done. So I gave the poem a title to
show that I did not consider that I had
achieved quite as much as I ought to have
done. You did not accept it for your magazine,
perhaps I ought not to have expected you
to do so, but you wrote such a kind little word
on the printed notice ; without your name, of
course, but I learnt that when I came here today.'


Mr. Forester looked bewildered ; he remembered
the poem, but he did not remember
any special kindness in the refusal of it, or that
he had any hand in it.

It is only a fortnight ago, and you may

have forgotten the circumstance entirely, but I
have not, and I thank you.'

I am afraid you are thanking me for very
little,' said he, bowing and preparing to move
away. He did remember the ' poem ' in question,
but only because of the very odd note
which had accompanied it. He had read that
first, and had then turned to look at 'The
String of Pearls.' He had found the string
easily enough, but had never succeeded in
finding the pearls, and had declined the contribution
with the editor's compliments and many
thanks, and that was all. He got away as soon
as he could, and later in the afternoon, as he
went home with the editor of ' Culture,' the
two compared notes. The latter had had the
offer of ' The Cry of the Wayside Dove,' by the
same pen, which he had not thought pertinent,
and had declined in polite terms, but had happily
escaped the writer's gratitude.

Oh, John, who would have thought of our
seeing you here ? ' Mary had exclaimed when
she saw John Simonds by her side.

Why not, Polly ? ' he asked.

'Hush!' said Mary anxiously. 'Don't say
Polly now ; you really must not ! '

I beg your pardon,' said John sadly : ' do
forgive me. I know I ought not to be so intimate
now, but it is so difficult to break myself of the
old habit.'

Oh, John, it is not that at all ! Why
should you not be just the same with us as you
have always been ? It is only that we have
dropped a great many careless ways of talking.
A cousin of my mother's is staying with us
who is quite a distinguished authoress ; you
don't know what a quantity of beautiful poems
she has written ! They make a pile quite a
quarter of a yard high, and all good ; and she
has spoken to us about some of our words and
ways, and taken a great deal of pains with our
looks and our manners, and now we always say
Mary and Agnes, and never use those ugly
short names  do we, Aggy ? ' This slip of poor
backsliding Polly's broke the ice effectually,
and John, who had looked very grave and re-vol.

II. I

served when he first joined them, was soon
nearly as much at home with them as ever.

Have you given up calling your other
sister by her short name too ? ' he asked. He
could not altogether shake off reserve when
speaking of her.

Zeph, you mean ; no, we are to go on
giving her the same name we have always
done. Miss Everilda says, because there is
something original about it. She says that
names beginning with Z are so uncommon that
they are quite distinguished. Miss Everilda 
Miss Seaton, I mean  lives near Alnminster,
John ; have you heard of her ? '

He had just heard of her ; and then they
asked him how he liked. Alnminster. He liked
it, he said, but he did not like being so faraway
from every one. Then he said rather
shyly, ' Are you alone here ? I mean is your
sister with you ? '

No,' replied Mary, ' Zeph has been staying
at Berkhampstead Castle since the beginning of
JuDe.'

I might have guessed it,' said he, looking
very much downcast.

You need not think that she is there for
any reason of the kind you seem to be imagining,'
said Mary impetuously. * She is only
there because father and mother are. Mr.
Daylesford asked father to go and arrange all
the MSS. at the castle for him, and gave him a
very good salary for doing it ; I am sure you
will be glad to hear that. Zeph and mother
were asked to stay there with father as long as
they liked ; but you must not think that Mr.
Daylesford himself has been with them, for he
has not. He has only been at the castle for
two days, or perhaps three, ever since they
first went.'

Is that a fact ? '

Of course it is. He has been all the way
to the Icarian Islands to see his brother, and
since he came back he has stayed in London
he has not been with them in the country at
all. That is true, John, I assure you. We
ourselves saw him when he first came home ;

and besides, Zeph would have told us if lie had
been there.'

When did you last hear from her ? '

Three or four days ago, and she said they
were quite alone.'

John sighed, and then he looked at Mary
as if he would like to ask her something.

John,' said she, with a sudden desire to
try to make him look happier ; ' you look as if
you would like to ask me something, and there
is a great deal I should like to say to you.'

John glanced at the crowd. What man
ever does forget the presence of his fellow-creatures
; not even when a few words which it is
most important that he should hear could be
said quite safely? Polly looked to see what Miss
Everilda was doing. She was talking of the
wrongs of authors with a sister in the craft to
whom she had just been introduced by Mrs.
Kennedy, and with whom she would evidently
be content to stay for hours. Agnes was talking
to a good-looking young figure-painter
who was longing to ask her to sit for Gudrun.

They are all happy,' said Mary to John
Strands. ' Let us walk round the garden.
We can talk there, and I have something to
say to you.' They strolled to the shady path
under the elm trees, she wondering much at
her own audacity the Awhile. How had she
dared to say this to him, and what more was
she going to say when they reached the spot
where they would be comparatively alone ?
She had been distressed by the sight of his
evident unhappiness, and she could not but
remember the time when they were all young
together, and how, even then, he had loved
Zeph. She respected his constancy with all
the respect of a person who was not at all sure
that she herself could ever attain to any proficiency
in that virtue. He had been such a
dear amusing fellow in those old days, and so
upright and honourable, that if he said a thing
was wrong, she and her sisters felt at once that
it must not be done. Now he was manifestly
suffering great depression on Zeph's account,
and part of it Mary thought was caused by the

consciousness that Zeph had behaved in a way
that was unworthy of her. ' John,' she said
very earnestly, ' you must be surprised at my
asking you to come and talk to me. Promise
me, even if you are vexed with anything I may
say, to believe I spoke with a good motive.'

'I can promise that quite easily,' said he.
I know you are acting from the best of
motives  I can see that you are.'

Thank you,' replied Mary gently. ' You
make it easy for me to speak. What I want to
say is this : I think you are blaming my poor
sister very much in your own mind for her
conduct to you  I won't pretend that I do not
know what has happened, for I cannot help
knowing it  but if you think that she behaved
as she did because she preferred another and a
richer man, I honestly assure you you are
wrong.'

He looked at her, and there was something
in his eyes which showed a struggle to believe
her, but a strong feeling that she must be
mistaken.

Don't look as if you could not believe me,
John ; it is perfectly true. I ought not to tell
Zeph's secrets  indeed, I know none that I
have not discovered for myself  but I am sure,
absolutely sure, that if she loves any one, it is
you ! '

He shook his head gloomily, but she saw
that he walked more lightly, and she took it asa
sign that he was beginning to have a little
more belief.

But, Polly,' he urged, wholly oblivious of
her late remonstrance, ' if that be the case
why did she refuse me ? '

Zeph is odd in many ways,' answered
Polly. ' She is naturally much more refined
than any of us. She likes everything to look
pretty and go smoothly, and has endured so
many of what she calls the rubs of poverty, that
she will never, of her own free will, marry a
poor man. Excuse my seeming to call you a
poor man, John.'

'Oh, I am poor, there is no denying that ;
but I shall not always be poor, Polly. I mean

to work ; and even as I am, I almost think that
she and I would be better off than she is at
home.'

Yes, but at home she does not feel responsible
for what she has to bear  she dislikes
it, but she did not choose her lot, and if
she were to marry you, it would be choosing
a certain way of life with her eyes open. I
know she thinks that : I have heard her say
things from time to time, and have pieced her
opinions together.'

If those are her opinions she cannot love
me ! ' said John, as if all were definitely over.

I am perfectly certain she does, and that
she is very unhappy because she has refused
you.'

Impossible ! '

Not impossible at all ! I am convinced
that I am giving you a faithful idea of what
she feels.'

If she loved me she would be content
to run the risk of having to bear a few years
of comparative poverty with me. She would

wish to do SO, in fact, for she would hope
to make it easier to me. Do you mean to
say, Polly, that if you loved any man in
my position, you would shrink from marrying
him from the motives you assign to your
sister ? '

Polly blushed from the roots of her hair to
the tips of her fingers  John had never seen
such a sudden blush before. She struggled to
answer, and said, 'I would not, but Zeph
would.'

And yet you say that Zeph loves me.'
And yet I say that Zeph loves you,' repeated
Polly mechanically. She was feeling
shyer than she had ever felt in her life, and
terribly afraid that she was playing the part of
a traitor in revealing what she believed to bethe
true state of her sister's mind. Something
she could not account for had made her speak.
She knew what Zeph was suffering, and she
had only to look at John to see what Zeph's
decision had cost him. Why should these two
people go on being wretched if she could conquer

her dislike to speak to him, and by telling
him the honest truth bring them together ?

He was hard to persuade, principally because
he did so wish to be persuaded. ' It
cannot be true, Polly,' said he ; ' you are a
dear kind girl, but you are deceived. Zeph is
much more likely to be in love with Mr.
Daylesford than with me.'

Oh, but I happen to know that she is not,'
replied Polly stoutly.

He turned suddenly, and looked at her
with such eager hope kindling in his eyes, that
her heart ached at not having any further
comfort to give him.

That young gentleman is making an offer
of marriage,' said a passer by, the moment he
reached a safe distance.

Is the girl going to take him .? ' asked the
lady who was with him.

I don't know ; there are evidently rocks
ahead. I would trust a great deal to her
power of moulding circumstances. She is a
fine-looking creature  not a beauty, I don't

mean that  and not quite of the upper class
perhaps, but made of good stuff.'

Oh, but he is a thousand times too good
for her,' replied the lady ; ' he is really handsome
and gentlemanlike, and she is  at least, I
cannot help thinking she is  a little vulgar; she
looks very like a shrew on her good behaviour.'

Their secluded path was therefore not quite
secluded enough to prevent their encountering
a little criticism now and then, but they
dropped their voices, or were silent when anyone
approached ; and as for the criticism, they
were unaware of it.

You can solemnly affirm that it is your
belief that there is nothing between your sister
and Mr. Daylesford ? ' repeated John earnestly.
Dear Polly, do not be so unkind as to say
one word more than you can say with perfect
certainty.'

Polly paused in order to answer this with
greater conscientiousness. ' I sincerely think
no, I am perfectly certain  that there is no
affection on her side : I cannot answer for his

feelings. I have only seen him once or twice,
but I do not think that there is any sign of his
being in love with her, unless it is his troubling
himself to know us at all, and I think father's
being of such use to him in arranging his
MSS. would account for that. They went to
Berkhampstead in June  he went with them.
When he had been there for two days, or
perhaps three, he went away to the Icarian
Islands, but if he had not gone there he was
coming back to London that same day. When
he got to Paris he must have heard that his
brother was safe, but he went on and he paid
him a long visit ; he was away for at least a
month, and when he did come home he did not
go to Berkhampstead to see her, and he had not
had any letters from her, for he came to our
house to ask if father and the others were still
at the castle, and when we told him that they
were, he did not go to them, for Jack saw him
in Oxford Street. Now, John, does what I have
just told you convince you that there can be
nothing between them ? for it is my opinion it

ought. Besides, is it likely that a man in
Mr. Daylesford's position would condescend to
marry Zeph ? '

This was too much for John, he was in
arms at once. ' Condescend to marry Zeph  I
should think he, or any man, however high his
position was, might feel it an honour and a
privilege to win your sister's love ! You say
that he has not won it ; can you give me equally
good proof of that ? '

No, Zeph is reserved, and I am sorry to
say she and I often have quarrels  she would
never confide in me. She does not confide in
Agnes either ; it would be Jack if it were anyone
 Jack is the one she loves most, and he
says she loves you, and I am certain she does ;
and as for her caring for Mr. Daylesford, do
you think if she did that she would have said
what she did to me when I was at Berkhamp-
stead for the day ? '

What did she say ? Polly, do excuse me,
but it is life or death to me.'

I asked when he was coming back, and

she said she hoped not at all while they were
at the castle, and that she was very glad he
had gone to his brother, and hoped he would
stay a long time. Then I asked if she would
like to see you.'

What did she say to that ? '

She said nothing at all. We were walking
in the park, and she hurried away from the
path and stooped down to gather some flowers,
and I followed her, and when she got up again
I saw two great glassy tears standing in her
eyes, and knew that she had gone away to hide
them. I said, " Zeph dear, why don't you let
John come ? half a word would bring him to
you wherever he was if you would but say it,
or let some one else say it for you." She put
her hand on my arm and said, " Hush, Polly !
don't talk of that, you make me so unhappy."
So I said no more, but you must see that it is
you whom she loves.' John turned very pale
and leaned against a tree by the edge of the
path ; he dared not let himself believe it, and
yet belief was trying to take possession of his

mince Polly was silent ; she had nothing more
to say, but she looked at him with pitying
kindness.

What would you have me do ? ' said he
hoarsely.

My dear John ! ' said Polly, and there
was something in her voice which showed her
astonishment at his question. He looked up,
wishing only that she would direct his conduct
a little ; his head was reeling at the sudden
change of outlook.

Why, go to her of course  go at once !
I don't quite know how you have managed
things, but so far as I can judge you must have
said what you wanted to say to her at odd
moments or by letter. You have never had a
real talk with her  never ! See her ; say what
you want to say by word of mouth ! I am
absolutely certain that if you do she will not
be able to resist you, for her heart is on your
side.'

I will do it ! ' said he resolutely ; ' I will
go. God bless you, dear Polly, for the kindness

you have shown me to-day. Whatever
happens I shall never forget it  and it costs a
girl an effort to speak as you have done This
speech was an indication of one of the strongest
points of John's character. Filled as his mind
was with his own anxieties and newly born
hopes which had not strength to soar, he could
yet divert his mind from them and put himself
in her position. He took her hand and held it
in a warmly affectionate grasp, and the two
who had observed them before caught sight of
this action from afar, and said, ' She has accepted
him ! '

My dear Mary,' said Miss Everilda to that
young lady when she at last returned to her
chaperon's side, ' I have had such a delightful
conversation ! This lady, Miss Lampeter  let
me introduce my cousin to you, Miss Lampeter
knows much more about authorship than I
do, and she has told me all kinds of things
about getting poems and articles published that
I never knew. I now see quite clearly why
my poor poems have never been printed. It

all comes of my disregarding the most trifling
formality imaginable. I ought, when I sent
one to this or that editor, to have always enclosed
my visiting card as well. It does seem
such a pity that I did not know this before.
Some one should really have told me.'

Miss Everilda was so light-hearted, that if
the editor of ' Culture ' had asked her to tread
a measure with him she would infallibly have
done it. Failing that, she watched the young
people enjoying themselves, and she began a
poem in which gaslight and moonlight where
contrasted, and asked John Simonds to come
and see her when they were back in the north
again, and read some of her MS. poems. John
hung about, waiting for the chance of a little
more talk with Polly, but had to be content
with such as could be had in odd moments
between the dances. He was well content to
wait her pleasure, for by a few words she had
changed the aspect of the world to him.

VOL. 11.

CHAPTEE Xvii.

THE AGONY COLUMN.

And I had rather have one twinkling,

Child Waters, of thine ee,
Than I wolds have Cheshire and Lancashire loth.

To take them mine own to be.  Ballad of Child Waters.

Unthinking persons, Zeph Treherne among the
number, were apt to maintain that Dr. Simonds
was nothing more than a dry and most uninteresting
old gentleman, whose conversation was
so heavy that no dinner party could overcome
the weight of his presence. There was truth in
the assertion so far as concerned conversation
on topics which did not interest him, and
nothing did interest him heartily but matters
concerning his own profession, or in some way
allied with it. It was his religion, his poetry,
his art. He had been heard to say that there
was no sight in nature more beautiful than a

perfectly healthy, healing sore ; but if he had
an eye which admired wounds of this sort he
had a heart to feel for mental wounds likewise.
To the outside world he was a cold man  he
was a perfect slave to his patients. He became
so interested in them that if he had thought
the recovery of one of them was ever so slightly
retarded by the non-fulfilment of some wish, he
would have gone miles to remove the difficulty
if it were in his power to do so. He considered
that he was under a solemn obligation to better
the condition of all who entered the wards over
which he presided, and beginning his ministrations
in that spirit, he often ended in being all
but a father to his patients, whose sorrows became
his own. Dr. Simonds was physician to
St. Elizabeth's Hospital, and for some time his
thoughts had been much occupied with a patient
who, some few weeks ago, had been brought
into one of the private wards. She was a girl,
Hester Langdale by name, and young. When
she first came in she had been suffering from a
brain attack presenting some features which

were unfamiliar to him. She had evidently
been placed in circumstances which had caused
her acute mental pain, most probably the desertion
of her lover ; but the result had been
that she was now the victim of a strange freak
of memory. There was nothing that had ever
been learnt, or read, or seen by her that did
not reproduce itself now. Whether it was a
long poem, or a psalm of David's, or a prayer,
she could repeat it with perfect accuracy, word
by word, and the lines followed each other
with as much ease as if she had been winding
off silk from a perfectly unentangled ball. Her
father had not been able to buy books for her,
and had therefore, even when she was still a
young child, made her learn by heart every
poem or fragment of poem that he himself admired,
and these were torturing her now. Her
mind was strangely active in furnishing her with
opportunities of exercising this newly developed
power. Hardly had she completed the task of
going through one poem which had been stored
away for years in the limbo of long-forgotten

things than another line from another equally
forgotten poem darted into her thoughts and
she was stimulated to try to recollect the next,
and then the whole poem gradually unrolled
itself before her mental vision, and she was able
to repeat it to the very end. Then came the
wish to know the beginning also, and to repeat
it up to the very point at which memory had
supplied the line which had started her off.
She always seemed to feel a certain difficulty in
remembering the first line, but no sooner did
she do this  for she never failed to succeed in
her attempts in a few minutes  than she was as
familiar with it as she had been with the rest ;
and it was the same with conversations and
scenes which had taken place almost in her
babyhood ; and thus she became aware of many
a circumstance of which she had hitherto had
no knowledge. The consequence of this most
unnatural state had been that Hester was worn
to a shadow. She hardly ever slept or rested,
for her brain would not consent to let her have
any repose. There was a terrible amount of

grief and despair lurking behind all this triumphant
recollection of bygone days and things,
for she always seemed to triumph a little when
she succeeded in repeating something she had
learnt to please her father, who had died so
long ago that his image was fading from her
mind. Now his features were distinctly seen
by her and his words to herself distinctly remembered,
and that not with pain, but with a
certain amount of pleasure. The pain came
when she was going through some poem which
Daylesford and she had enjoyed together. Then
she burst into agonies of tears ; and these attacks
and her sleeplessness were what Dr.
Simonds at first found it so hard to struggle
with. He had done so with success; the
over-excitement of brain which reproduced so
many apparently extinct impressions had been
relieved ; but, strange to say, the recollections
she had thus regained remained with her in all
their freshness, but she was so weak that Dr.
Simonds was often alarmed. Every day since
she had first come to the hospital that she was

able to speak at all, she had repeatedly asked
for the ' Times ' newspaper, and at first it had
been given her in compliance with her most
piteous entreaties. She had never looked
beyond the first page, and had wept so after
seeing it that her doctor had forbidden it to be
brought to her any more. For some time she
had said less about it ; in fact, the period during
which she had any reason to expect to see
Daylesford's advertisement was over, and she
knew it. Still she sometimes asked for the
paper ; but discipline was strict at St. Elizabeth's,
and she was told that Dr. Simonds had
forbidden it as seeing it only made her worse.
Dr. Simonds is mistaken, he does not understand,'
said Hester wearily.

He ought to know. Miss  he is a doctor,'
said the nurse, shocked at such language.

I shall ask him this morning,' said Hester,
on the morning of the very day when the Tree
went with Miss Everilda to the Kennedyss'
garden party. ' I am better, it won't dome
any harm to-day,' she pleaded, when he had

come and she was preferring her request. He
looked at her pale face: how large her eyes
looked now that she was so thin ! she had no
idea how ill she still was.

Feel my pulse,' said she ; ' look at me,
and you will see for yourself how much better
I am.' He saw that she was trying to seem
stronger than she was for the sake of carrying
her point, while even the energy with which
she had said these few words had been too
great a tax on her strength. She saw a denial
framing itself on his lips, and turned her face
away and began to weep quietly. ' Send for a
copy of the " Times," nurse,' said he. ' There,
you shall have your way for once. Miss Langdale.
I wish you would tell me why you want
it,' he added, when the woman had left them.
I am an old man, you need not mind confiding
in me ; I might be of service to you, my
poor dear child.'

'Yes, you are kind,' murmured Hester,
 very kind. It was you who made them put
my hair where I can see that it is safe.' They

both glanced at a shining roll of hair which
was tied by a ribbon to a nail in the wall by
the side of Hester's little white bed. During
the worst part of her illness he had ordered
her hair to be cut off, and she, who had then
been so weak and ill as to be careless about
preserving her habit of reticence, had said, 'I
must have that hair kept. If Godfrey ever
sends for me to go back to him, he will be
vexed with me for letting my hair be cut off! '

Who is Godfrey, and where is he ? ' the
doctor had then asked, but she had shaken her
head in tearful silence.

You are getting a little better,' said he.
Do you feel the improvement yourself ? '

I don't know,' she replied gloomily ; 'I
am not sure that I want to be better. Oh, that
is so ungrateful ! ' she exclaimed, for she remembered
his constant kindness. ' Yes, I feel
better  much better.'

Your " Times " will be here in a minute,'
said he. ' Promise me, if you do not find
what you want in it, not to make yourself ill

again with crying. That is what makes me so
afraid of letting you have it. Do try to bear

up;

You do not know what I have to bear up
against,' she answered piteously, "- and it came
on me so suddenly too ! I hope I shall bear it
better some day, and I will try to make that
day come as soon as possible to please you.'

The nurse now came with the ' Times.'
Hester at once turned to the second column of
the first page, but no sooner did she look at it
than her eyes fell on the four words for the
sight of which she had hungered so long.
Hester, you are wrong,' in large letters. She
could scarcely believe her senses. It seemed so
impossible that those words could really be
there. Could it be true, and were her days of
misery at an end? Then a bright but most
delicate flush overspread her wan cheeks, and
she looked into the doctor's face, her eyes
blinded with happy tears. ' Look ! ' said she,
and pointed to the words.

He saw them in a moment. ' There ! ' said

he triumphantly ; ' didn't I always tell you you
were wrong ? '

You did,' she answered gently, ' but you
did not know what a terrible number of reasons
I had for thinking myself right. I was so
wretched when first it happened that I thought
I must have drowned myself. I don't know
how I escaped that. I don't know how long it
is since it happened, for I have been so ill.
He went away. He was to come back in four
days and to write to me during the time, and
he never wrote and never came, and from that
day to this I have never heard one word from
him.'

But,' said the doctor anxiously, ' how can
you be quite certain that this announcement is
intended for you ? '

'Because when I left his house  I felt I
ought to leave it  I wrote a line to say that I
was going, but that supposing there had been
some unfortunate mistake about his letters and
he had written, and did not want me to leave
him, he was to put a message to me consisting

of these four words in the " Times ; " and oh,
doctor, perhaps they have been in every day
for a long time. You have never allowed me
to see a paper. I don't want to say anything
unkind to you, but how could you refuse me
that ? I might have been happy all the time.'

I did it for the best,' said he. ' I was only
thinking of your health.'

I know you were,' said she warmly ; ' but
now I must go. I must go at once.'

Impossible ! You are not able. It is as
much as your life is worth to attempt it.'

I must ; I will rest when I am there.'

But how far is it . ' asked Dr. Simonds, for
in spite of himself he wavered for one moment.

You must not ask that ; but it won't hurt
me  it's not far.'

'I cannot give my consent,' said he, recovering
his firmness. ' The risk is much too
great ; and you must compose yourself and not
talk any more. I am afraid you will suffer for
this ; I shall have to administer a sedative.'

How can I compose myself when I have

seen that announcement ? How can I stay here
when I might be with him ? Doctor, you are
kind and good, and you have saved my life I
know ; but now that I am so much better, one
word from him will do more for me than all
the medicine and care in the world.'

Listen,' said he authoritatively. ' It is
absolutely impossible for you to leave this place
for some days, perhaps not for a week.'

A week,' she began ; but he interrupted
her.

Let me finish what I was saying. And
you must be absolutely quiet.'

Quiet ! You forget what is in that paper.
I must answer it. I must see him. You must
let me so ! '

In a day or two,' he said firmly.

In an hour ! Think how many hours of
being together have already been lost ! You
forget that he is unhappy too. I should be unworthy
of his affection if I let him suffer one
half-hour's unhappiness that I can spare him.'

The doctor looked embarrassed. He was a

quiet, God-fearing man, who liked people to be
bound by the ordinary rules of Christian
morality. He could see that she wore no wedding
ring ; every word she said proved that
she was no wife ; he shrank back from his own
desire to offer to do something to help her.
How could he be the go-between in an affair
of that kind ? ' My dear child said he, ' I pity
you from the bottom of my heart; but ought
you to go back to him ? Perhaps God has
parted you from him for your own true good.'

If God did that,' said Hester humbly, ' He
will guide the rest until He shows His will.
Let me do what I think best.'

Well, so far as to-day is concerned, at the
very most I can only allow you to write to him.
Write and say where you are, and ask him to
come perhaps, and I will send your note by my
coachman. He can drive there, wherever it is,
as you say it is so near, and still be back here
before I 'am ready to go. I have other patients
to see.'

The nurse's eyes seemed to say, 'Indeed

you have, sir ; ' but she knew his ways.
Hester's beamed with happiness ; that did seem
such a quick method of communicating with
Daylesford ; but when a pen was put in her
hand she found out how weak she was, and at
first it seemed as if she would not be able to
form a legible word. They had given her a
sheet of note-paper with the hospital address
printed on it, so all that she really needed to
write was ' Godfrey, I am here ; come,' and
sign her name. That is what she did write,
but in such trembling characters that she
feared it would be impossible for him to read
it.

Doctor,' said she anxiously, ' I shall have
to ask you to be so kind as address this for me.
I dare not trust my own writing. You will
keep my secret ? '

He bowed, and silently took the pen and
wrote, The Hon. Godfrey Daylesford, 11 Ambassadors'
Gate. Again he felt that there was
some story connected with that name ; he was
sure he had heard it before, but could not say

when or where. He was a very absent and
oblivious man ; but Hester did not know it, or
she would not have lain back on her pillow
now with such a happy smile on her lips. He
bade her farewell for the day, intending at once
to send off his man with her note ; but in the
corridor he was waylaid by the house surgeon,
who had been wishing for some time that he
would deal more expeditiously with that case in
Private Ward Number 4. A poor man, in
whom Dr. Simonds had quite as much interest
as in Hester Langdale when once he was insight
of his evident suffering, was anxiously
waiting for his visit, and an important change
had taken place in his symptoms ; so, without
having the least idea what he was doing, the
doctor put the note in his pocket and hurried
to the patient whom he had neglected too long.
Then he had to see another and yet another.
He did not remember what he had left undone
until more than an hour afterwards, when he
was descending the hospital steps and saw his
own coachman. Then he bethought himself of

the errand which he had promised to entrust to
this man.

'I have lost more than an hour,' he
thought ; ' and that unhappy girl will belying
there counting every second ! Eleven
Ambassadors' Gate,' said he, getting into his
carriage as quickly as he could. He would
deliver the letter with his own hands at Mr.
Daylesford's door, and thus do his best to atone
for his culpable forgetful ness. He soon reached
his destination, and jumped out with professional
promptitude. As soon as the footman
saw him he bowed and said, ' Please to walk in,
sir ; you are expected.'

What was this ? Had Hester after his departure
written another letter to say that he
would call . But she could not have done so,
for his going there was a pure accident, and
she had no reason to expect him to do it. The
doctor was bewildered, hopelessly bewildered
and undecided, and stood at the door not
knowing what to do.

Please to walk in, sir ; you are expected,'

VOL. II. L

ait-ain said the footman, and there was so much
decision, not to say compulsion in his manner,
that Dr. Simonds made a few steps forwards
and immediately found the house door shut
behind him. Perhaps it would not be amiss if
he did see this Mr. Daylesford, as he could not
only put the note into his own hands, but give
him an urgent warning not to let his patient talk
much or think of moving until she was actually
convalescent. This idea gradually shaped itself,
but he was not quite sure whether it would not
be taking too great a liberty if he were to acton
it. He meditated on this point as, he followed
the footman through the hall and corridor
to the library. ' What a handsome house ! '
thought he. ' Mr. Daylesford is rich, that's
very certain. It is stupid of me to forget what
I have heard about him. I don't think I have
ever met him, but I shall know that directly I
see his face.'

Dr. Simonds was not destined to see his
face that day ; the door opened and Mrs. Mason
bustled in, looking very important and full of

business. 'We have been expecting you, sir,'
said she. A feeling of expectation seemed to
have established itself in the mind of every one
in the house. ' Mr. Daylesford said you would
call,' she added.

I am sure I don't know how Mr. Dales
could expect me to ' began Dr. Simmonds

in ponderous amazement.

No, nor I either,' interrupted Mrs. Mason.
If he wants things to go right, he really ought
to come himself and get the young lady to
come, and then things could be arranged as
they ought to be.'

Oh, I should oppose that ! I could not
think of allowing her to come here ' interposed
Dr. Simonds.

But I should have thought you would
have been very glad to have her here, and
have some of the responsibility taken off you,
sir.'

1 am accustomed to responsibility,' replied
Dr. Simonds in his best professional manner,
and with an admirably haughty bow.

L 2

Well, you must be,' said Mrs. Mason, who
was for a minute or two considerably impressed
by his lofty manner, but the remembrance of
certain bills enabled her to recover herself
quickly, and she added, ' And then, you see, the
high prices you charge go to cover that.'

I am not aware that my prices are higher
than is usual in the profession  they are not so
high as those of many practitioners.'

Perhaps not,' said Mrs. Mason doubtfully ;
but had we not better go over the house and
settle what is to be done for the young lady's
reception? I shall have left Mr. Daylesford's
service before she comes, but I should like todo
all I can for him.'

But so little is needed  no great preparations
for her reception are wanted ; I will tell
you anything I can think of. I should like to
see Mr. Daylesford ; I must say a word or two
to him about her if you will kindly let him
know I am here.'

He is not here, sir ; I thought I had
explained that,' replied the disturbed housekeeper.

'Do let us just take a look round for
you to form an opinion of what will be wanted ,
You say it will be very little. That's what Mr.
Daylesford himself thinks ; he says the house
was put in thorough order a short while since
when he took it, and all that he now wishes is
that you should say what is absolutely necessary.
He is intending to go abroad for three
or four months very soon after his marriage,
and he and his bride will only be here for a
fortnight or so before they set olBT, even if they
come at all.'

Dr. Simonds had heard nothing of this
speech but the bit about Mr. Daylesford's marriage
; his joy on hearing this was so great that
he had thought of nothing else. It was a
thousand times better than he had dared to
hope. ' I am heartily glad he intends to marry
her,' he said.

Mrs. Mason was beginning to be impatient.
She liked to be treated as if she were a person
of some importance, and she did not care to
waste so much time on an old gentleman whose

principal occupation seemed to be wool-gathering.
' Are sou intending to examine into the
state of the house or not, if you please, sir ? '
said she.

I presume that you mean from a sanitary
point of view ? '

Yes, that is one thing that has to be seen
to, but then there's a suite of rooms upstairs
that has to be re-decorated.'

I don't see what I have to do with decoration,'
observed Dr. Simonds, who was more and
more at a loss to understand her. ' Madam, it
has struck me ever since I came in that we
were more or less at cross purposes, and excuse
me, my time is valuable.'

That's what I have been thinking, sir. Before
more time is wasted, may I ask if you are
Mr. Waddilove, the upholsterer and decorator ?
My master told me that I was to expect him
this afternoon, about doing up the suite of rooms
upstairs, and to see what more was needful.'

Doing up a suite of rooms  decorations !
I am a doctor, madam, and I came here about

an announcement, which as I am informed was
put in the " Times " newspaper by Mr. Dales
I must know where he is to be found 
I must be able to take back some message to
the lady to whom it was addressed ! I have a
note for him ; how am I to send it ? '

I beg your pardon, sir. Mr. Daylesford
is at present at the family's country seat. A
letter will be sure to find him if you direct it
to him at the castle. Berkhampstead Castle,
sir.'

Dr. Simonds started and turned a shade or
two paler. Now he knew who Mr. Daylesford
was. He had heard his name more than once,
some months ago, and never without much
bitter comment. That was when Mrs. Simonds
was most enraged against Zeph. Latterly all
mention of her had been avoided as stirring up
thoughts full of nothing but sorrow and pain,
and in the whirl of professional life Daylesford's
name had slipped out of the keeping of the
doctor's memory. All that he had retained was
that there was some man of fashion who had,

as bis wife maintained, turned Zeph's head by
his unmeaning attentions. But the name of
Berkhampstead brought everything back to his
mind, and brought a dread of new sorrow as
well. Up to the moment when the housekeeper
uttered that name the doctor had not felt the
smallest shade of doubt that Daylesford's undivided
love was Hester's. How could he have
had any anxiety on that point? How could
any honest man have any ? Had not the doctor
seen an announcement in that day's ' Times,' put
in by Daylesford himself, which according to
agreement with Hester was not to appear unless
he still loved and wished to be reunited to her?
How could a man who had let that advertisement
be printed, be about to marry any one but
the woman to whom it was addressed ? Nor
the doctor's heart was filled with an acute
sense of danger and alarm. Zeph Tr eh erne was,
as he believed, at Berkhampstead Castle ; Dales
was there also. A marriage between these
two would break the hearts of two far nobler
creatures than themselves, and judging by the

course of events in this wicked world, that
seemed precisely the reason why such a marriage
should take place.

Shall I write down Mr. Daylesford's address
for you, sir? ' inquired Mrs. Mason, for he
seemed quite indifferent to her presence, and
was simply standing in a state of bewildered
disquietude.

She recalled him to his senses, and he said,
Oh no, there is no fear of my forgetting it ; '
and then, fumbling with his hat, and with a
faint hope that she might contradict him, but
more than all with a conviction that it was his
bounden duty to obtain certainty, he added,
Berkhampstead Castle, you said. Is not that
where Mr. and Mrs. Treherne and some of their
family have been staying ? '

They are staying there now, sir. It is the
oldest Miss Treherne, you know, whom Mr.
Daylesford is going to marry. It is quite a
recent engagement. We only heard of it this
morning.'

But is it really an engagement ? Do you

know for a fact that he is going to marry her,
or are you merely supposing he intends it
because he has been paying her some attention
? '

Well, I do think it begins to look uncommonly
like a marriage when my master writes
himself to tell me that he is going to be married,
and that Mr. Waddilove will call to make
some arrangements for the reception of his
bride. None of us know the lady, I think I
understood you to say you did ? ' and she fixed
a piercingly interrogative eye on the doctor.

What is your Mr. Daylesford's Christian
name, madam ? ' asked the doctor, ignoring her
curiosity entirely, for a sudden thought had
come into his mind which had set his heart
beating with renewed hope ; there must be two
brothers.

His name is Godfrey ; Mr. Godfrey Dales
; and he might be Lord Berkhampstead if
he would but consent to assume the title ; and
the young lady is said to be of good family too,
and one of the most '

Don't speak of her I ' exclaimed the doctor
with loathing. ' Good morning, madam,' and
he began to hurry out of the room.

'You think you can manage to recollect
the address I gave you ? ' inquired Mrs. Mason,
for to her mind he did not seem competent to
put his own hat on his head. ' You won't forget
Berkhampstead Castle ? '

Not till my dying day ! ' said he between
his teeth, and thus left the house. But what
was he to do? His spirit quailed when he
thought of what lay before him. He would
have to break this terrible news to the poor
girl whom he had left lying at the hospital,
supremely happy because the man she loved
was still true to her, and having taken from
her the only thing in the world for which she
cared to live, he would have to go home and
blight the existence of his best beloved son.

CHAPTEE XIX.

THIS WAS SUCH Plan Speaking.

Pray, pray, pray  no help but prayer,
A breath that fleets beyond this iron world.
And touches Him that made it.  Tennyson.

Let no one accuse Dr. Simonds of cowardice
because he went home instead of going back to
the hospital to tell the worst to Hester. He
told himself that he was not quite sure that the
housekeeper's news was true, and that even if
it were, his patient should bear it better if
fortified by a night's rest after the excitement
of the morning. That was the rock on which
he took his stand, but let him look where he
would, he saw no other rocks to stand on. He
went to his own room and wrote a hasty note
to Hester to tell her that Mr. Daylesford was
out of town, but that he would forward her

note to him. Then he wrote thus to Mr.
Daylesford :  ' I am physician to St. Elizabeth's
Hospital, and Miss Hester Langdale is at
present a patient in one of the private wards
under my care. She has asked me to convey
the enclosed letter or note to you, in answer, I
believe, to an advertisement of yours in the
Times." I do so, but. for her sake and without
her knowledge, I must add a line to say that,
as her health is in a very critical state, I must
entreat you to use the greatest circumspection
in your dealings with her ; any abrupt or
painful disclosure or communication might be
highly injurious, if not fatal, in her present
condition.'

I ought not to have written this,' thought
the doctor, ' but I'll take the breach of etiquette
on my own conscience.' He wondered what
Daylesford would do. The housekeeper had
said that his engagement was quite a recent
affair ; suppose it had been entered into under
the impression that Hester was dead, or lost forever.
He would not have advertised in the

Times' if he had not wished to find her ; perhaps
he had intended to make her his wife. When
the note went to Berkhampstead, he would
know that she was found. He would then be
obliged to make his choice between the two
women. If his choice fell on Hester, the
renewal of love would probably end in a marriage,
and if it did not fall on Hester, the
doctor feared that he himself had perhaps been
the cause of her unhappiness. He had refused
her the sight of the ' Times.' He had done so
because it always made her ill to see it. But
would it have made her ill if she had found in
it what she wanted ? Had Daylesford's message
to her been in the paper during the time when
he had kept it out of her hands ? and if so, was
he, the doctor, answerable for the loss of her
happiness? He could not forget that the
housekeeper had said that the engagement was
an affair of the last two or three days. If
Hester had seen the advertisement sooner this
fatal engagement might never have taken place,
and Daylesford might have married her. He

sent for the back numbers of the ' Times ; ' his
wife kept such things, so there was no difficulty
in finding them. He picked out all the supplements
for the last three weeks, growing more
and more despondent as he did so, for that
announcement was in large print, and always
caught his eye as readily as the name of the
paper. Before long he was sitting, looking perfectly
woebegone, with twelve supplements on
his knee, every one of which contained the
words, ' Hester, you are wrong ! ' They had
first appeared on the 17th, and they had been
in every paper since, ending with that very day,
July 30th. And not one of these but the last
had Hester been allowed to see ! He was
wretched.

After some time had passed, Mrs. Simonds
looked in, and seeing him absorbed in thought
a state which she always described as sitting
still and doing nothing  exclaimed, ' Well, my
dear, you seem to be pretty well tired out.'

Yes, dear, I am tired ; I have had an
exhausting day.' The doctor had no intention

of increasing this many difficulties by telling
her about Zeph, but he did want a little
sympathy.

I am sorry you are so tired, Ealph, but
you do take your work far too much to heart.
When you come home you ought to dismiss your
patients from your mind  other doctors do.
What's the use of fretting yourself to fiddle-strings
about other people's troubles ? and I am
sure, at the rate you are paid for your hospital
work, you can hardly be expected to give
much thought to the cases when once you have
turned your back on the building.'

He smiled, but very drearily, and said, ' I
shall be all right presently. Where is John ? '

At a garden party at St. John's Wood.'

Dr. Simonds sighed.

Now why should you sigh because John is
at a garden party at St. John's Wood ? It is
not as if you had to go.' But even that immunity
brought the doctor no peace.

At dinner he tried to eat and speak, but in
the evening he relapsed into silence again.

My love observed Mrs. Simonds, ' no
one can say that you are cheerful company.'

I am afraid not,' he answered ruefully ;
but I have such a difficult matter to think
about.'

Let me help you,' she pleaded.

She was so wonderfully sympathetic that he
forgot how rigidly severe her judgment was
on certain points, and said, ' It's about a poor
girl in the hospital who is just recovering from
a brain attack, and who has been very cruelly
treated by her lover.'

Mrs. Simonds was up in arms in a moment,
and exclaimed, ' Dr. Simonds, you surprise
me. Why should you trouble yourself about
such a person ? A girl in the hospital ! What
kind of a girl ? '

A very interesting one, but she has been
most unfortunate. Her story is so sad.'

Is she a respectable person . '

The doctor was sorely put to it  the question
was so direct,
von. II. M

No, not what you would call so, but she

ism

dear, I hope your ideas on these points
are not getting confused with seeing so many
queer people.'

Oh no, not that ; but if you did but know
how distressing it is '

Oh, I know the kind of people you go and
get unhappy about ! Whenever you see any
who are utterly good-for-nothing and useless
so bad that no one else would look at them
you go and pity them all the more because
you know no one else does, and then you worry
your life out in trying to do some very difficult
thing which will set them on their feet again.'

My dear, I don't deserve such a high
character ; I should be proud indeed if I could
set on his feet one poor creature whom everyone
else had left lying as a desperate case.'

Well, you may feel like that if you choose,
but I call it feeling very like a fool ! Any one
knows people of that kind cannot really be seton
their legs-they stand up while you hold

them, or while it amuses them to let you think
you can hold them, and then they just drop
down again, and laugh at you.'

Never mind that, Eliza, if you know that
you have done your best.'

Oh, but the more I have done, the more
angry I am when it comes to nothing. It is
far better to give them no chance of laughing
at you.'

And never try to do a good action,'

replied the doctor languidly ; he was again
thinking  there were so many things to think
about ; and now, having satisfied himself that
he had done all in his power to lighten Hester's
sufferings, he felt at liberty to torment himself
with another aspect of the same affair, and one
which touched him much more closely. How
would his son bear the intelligence ?

John came in very soon after the doctor
had decided that there was no reason why he
too should not be allowed to have one more
night's rest unconscious of new sorrow. John
looked twice as happy as when he went out,

M 2

and Mrs. Simonds saw it, and raised her eyes
from her knitting with a genuine touch of kindness
in them. ' How bright you look ! ' said
she. ' Who was at the Kennedyss ? Any one
you knew ? '

Yes, the Trehernes were there,' he replied
joyously.

Not Zeph, surely ? ' asked the doctor
eagerly.

JSTo, not Zeph, but the two others. They
have grown into such fine handsome girls ! '

Mrs. Simonds muttered something very disparaging,
and her rugged brow clouded over ;
then she said, ' Surely we have had enough,
and more than enough, of these people ! Their
presence cannot have added much to your
pleasure, John.'

It did  I was very glad to see them
again.'

Oh, I think I will say good night,' she
observed severely. 'I don't care to sit up to
hear the praises of people I detest ; and I like
people, to be consistent, and you are not. One

of them has done all she could to make us
miserable, and now these two younger ones
seem to want to try to do the same. Leave
them alone, John ; they are as heartless as their
sister, I make no doubt.'

During this speech both John and his father
had been endeavouring to soothe her. ' Jjct us
talk of something else, dear,' the doctor had
said.

Don't go away, mother,' exclaimed John ;
but she would listen to no entreaties, and went.
She had not been gone a minute, however,
before she opened the door again for one last
attack on the Trehernes.

They are a thoroughly worthless family, I
tell you, and, for my part, I greatly wonder
how you can condescend to speak to any of
them  so now you have my opinion ! ' Having
said this, she retreated without giving him time
for an answer, and then John told his father
all Polly had said to him, and that he was
going to see Zeph next day. The doctor was
rather silent, but, on the whole, hopeful, for if

Zeph had been engaged, surely Polly would
have known it. Next morning the doctor
meant to tell his son what he had heard at
Ambassadors' Gate  that night he should sleep
unvexed by doubt. As for the doctor himself,
he was too much perplexed to sleep, and yet he
had to pretend to be fast bound in its thrall,
for if he moved or gave his wife the least
opening to suspect that he was awake, she
broke the welcome silence by some such speech
as this : 

'Ealph, listen to me  you must listen tome.
You may be lax about things  you always
are ! You may be willing to let those odious
Trehernes play fast and loose with you and
your family, but I give you warning  a solemn
warning that I will never be civil to any one of
them  none of them shall ever set foot in this
house ! ' She rang changes on this the whole
night long, the doctor always pretending to be
too much under the dominion of sleep to take
in the meaning of her words, and scarcely
answering a syllable. But this night was so

disturbed that he overslept himself, and the
first thing he was conscious of in the morning
was his wife standing by his bedside, saying,
It is too indecent ! Such barefaced pursuit of
a young man is positively disgraceful ! '

What is the matter, my sweet EHza ? ' he
asked, not in irony, but from imperfect comprehension
of what was arousing him to play a
part once more in the troublesome world from
which he had for some hours escaped.

That forward creature, Polly Treherne,
has actually sent that spoilt little brother of
hers here  here to this house, I tell you, Ealph
with a note to John ! She cannot even wait
till he has got his breakfast before she tries to
get hold of him again ! Now, Ealph, John maybe
what is called grown up, but I hope he is
not too much grown up to obey a kind father,
and I insist on your ordering him to keep away
from those scheming girls ! '

The doctor was wide awake in a moment ;
he greatly feared he knew why this note had
been sent. ' Let me get up and dress myself,'

said he ; ' I will go to John.' When he did go,
John silently put into his hand Polly's note,
which had evidently been written under the
influence of strong feeling, and he read, ' Don't
go to Berkhampstead to-day, John  don't go
any day, for I have had a letter from my sister
this morning. All I told you yesterday was
wrong, though, God knows, I thought I was
telling you the truth : she is engaged to marry
Mr. Daylesford. I shall never forgive myself
for causing you so much pain' (here it was
easy to see that Polly had let one or two heavy
tears fall on her paper)  'never. And I am
ashamed of her  she ought not to have done
it. Dear John, try to bear it bravely and
forgive me.'

Dr. Simonds gazed blankly at his son, he
was shocked at the anguish in his face. Polly's
letter had been a fearful blow to him after so
many hours of hope.

My dear boy,' said the doctor ; but he
himself looked as ill as his son.

I shall bear it better in a short time,' said

John as cheerfully as he could. ' It has come
on me rather unexpectedly, that's all. Don't
tell my mother just yet.*

There could be no doubt now, and father
and son went downstairs to face the world,
which just then seemed inclined to treat them
very hardly.

Mrs. Simon ds was sitting at the breakfast-table
looking full of just wrath, and pouring
warm water in and out of the tea-cups
with an air of consciousness that she was performing
a service for two people who were
miserably unworthy of any such kindness.
Her face expressed a whole Commination
Service.

I suppose we had better begin,' said she
coldly, looking from her anxious and unhappy
husband to her equally unhappy son.

There was no satisfaction to be obtained
from the face of either. If Dr. Simonds had
carried his point and made John promise to
have nothing more to do with the Trehernes;
especially with this forward, giddy Polly, surely

he would have seemed pleased. If, on the contrary,
John had held his own, and maintained
his right to keep on good terms with the friends
of his youth, surely there would be some sign
of firmness about him, if not-of elation; but
one seemed as depressed as the other. Breakfast
was a silent and most uncomfortable
meal. The two men rose up from it with a
visible air of relief, and prepared to leave the
room.

Where are you going, Ealph ? ' inquired
Mrs. Simonds imperatively.

To the hospital.'

My dear, it's not your day ! '

That's nothing ! I shall have to go,' said
the doctor resolutely.

There are three or four people waiting for
you downstairs  your own patients, you know
you will surely see them ? '

Mrs. Simonds always affected to consider
the hospital work as entirely outside of her
husband's practice.

Why was I not told before F I must go to

the hospital, of course, but it will do if I go
rather later ; ' and as he looked glad of the
respite, she was somewhat mollified.

Here is a telegram for you,' said she, for
the servant appeared with one. ' Now you will
probably find some other work cut out for you
than running to the hospital when you are not
expected ! '

My dear Eliza,' he began ; but he stopped,
for who can check the torrent of a wife's eloquence
?

He opened the telegram as he went downstairs,
and when he saw who had sent it he was
glad he had waited till then. It was from Godfrey
Daylesford, Berkhampstead, and merely
contained these words : ' Thank you for your
caution. My lawyer will be with you at half-past
twelve, to speak on the subject of your
letter.'

Dr. Simonds went to his room and his
patients, and Mrs. Simonds having, as she
thought, her son at her mercy, said to him,
Your father is going to waste his time at the

hospital, and you, John, I suppose, are in a
hurry to be off to the Trehernes ? '

Yes, mother, I am. I want to see Polly
about something.'

Mrs. Simonds had not expected this answer.
She had only been indulging in irony. When
she heard it, she flung up her arms in horror at
both father and son. Men were mad, unreasoning
creatures at the very best, but surely she
had become possessed of two of the worst specimens
of their kind.

At two o'clock the doctor was on his way
to the hospital. He had seen Mr. Daylesford's
lawyer, who, as chance would have it, had
been at Berkhampstead on business when the
doctor's note enclosing Hester's had arrived.
Daylesford had at once despatched him to
London to see Dr. Simonds and explain his
position. It was not a position to be proud of,
and there was very little that the lawyer could
say. Daylesford wished Hester to be informed
that he had been abroad for a month or more,
that he had written to her while away, that he

had advertised for her, as requested in her last
letter, as soon as he had received it, which he
had not done till his return to England ; and
besides that, he had made every possible inquiry
; but all being in vain, he had given up
any hope of ever finding her, and had finally
made an offer of marriage to a young lady to
whom he had been for some time attached, but
whose society he had avoided from a feeling of
loyalty to Hester. Had he been able to find
Hester he would, no doubt, have acted differently
; but as it was, his heart and his honour
were alike pledged to another. Mr. Blackmore
had wound up by saying that all that now remained
for his client to do was to express his
profound sorrow at having caused Miss Langdale
any unhappiness, and his determination to
settle an income of five hundred a year on her.
The doctor had affirmed that he was quite certain
she would not accept this. The lawyer
had' smiled faintly, and said he should be very
much surprised if she did not. The doctor had
said that many things that appeared surprising

did nevertheless happen ; for instance, some
people might think it surprising that Mr. Dales
who was actually engaged to Miss Tree
should put an announcement in the newspaper
to inform Miss Langdale that his affection
for her was unchanged, and yet that had actually
happened.

Oh, no, no ! ' exclaimed the lawyer, roused
from his professional calmness by this attack.
Let me explain that. Mr. Daylesford only
proposed to Miss Treherne on the 28th ; gentlemen
do not usually attend to business at such
times, but he wrote at once to stop that announcement
appearing any more ; but I suppose
such things get set up in type earlier than we
outsiders imagine  his letter was not in time
to prevent it.'

Mr. Daylesford seems to have been remarkably
business-like!' observed the doctor
bitterly. ' If he only became engaged to Miss
Treherne on the 28th, he certainly lost no time
in writing for an upholsterer and decorator todo
his house up ! '

That also might be explained in a way not
altogether to Mr. Daylesford's discredit,' said
Mr. Blackmore, ' There was a suite of rooms
in his house especially devoted to Miss Langdale's
use, and the sight of them was painful to
him.'

I wonder what his feelings would be if he
saw the poor girl herself ? ' said the doctor.

'But, Dr. Simonds, you must allow that
my client i behaving as well as he can under
the circumstances.'

So much depends on the value people
attach to money,' replied the doctor bitterly ;
'I don't think Miss Langdale will care to
receive any of his.'

At all events you will let her know what
Mr. Daylesford proposes,' said Mr. Blackmore.

Some day I will, not yet. He may already
be able to look on things from that point of
view-I am certain that she is not *-! doubt if
she ever will be. Good morning, sir. People
pity us doctors for having disagreeable work todo,
but it seem to me that lawyers also are by

no means exempt from it. I will now go to
my patient, and will tell her as much of this as
I dare. I suppose I may infer that this is the
only reply to her note that Mr. Daylesford
intends to send ? '

Precisely,'

Then I wish you good morning, sir.'

The doctor had dismissed the lawyer hastily
and with ill-concealed contempt ; but the contempt
was principally directed against his
employer. He detested the idea of this man's
endeavouring to salve his own conscience by
offering a girl like Hester a money compensation.
How could he who Ime her insult her
so ? Meantime the doctor's hansom was rapidly
approaching St. Elizabeth's. The old man's
heart was very heavy. He did not think that
the blow would kill Hester, but he thought it
would tax her strength to the utmost.

She has slept the whole night through,'
said the nm-se ; ' she looks much better, but she
is very anxious, sir.'

The doctor went in. Hester was lying

with her eyes fixed on the door, and lie
watched him enter the room. His head was
slightly bowed. There was no brightness in
his eyes, and they were not raised frankly to
meet her own. He neither smiled cheerily as
was his wont, nor were his lips set together
like those of one who had a firm purpose 
they expressed the anxious indecision of a man
who has a painful duty to perform and has not
been able to decide on any way of doing it.
She drew the sheet over the lower part of her
face as if she foresaw that ere long she would
have need to hide the anguish that would be
seen in it, and kept her eyes fixed on his. He
came to the side of the bed, tried to speak, but
his voice seemed thick ; then he took her hand
and seemed more than ordinarily desirous to
ascertain the true state of her pulse, but she
felt that his hand was trembling.

Tell me what it is, doctor,' said she, very
gently. ' I know there is something that yoM
are afraid to tell me I see it  I feel it.'

He tried to gain time, for his courage failed

VOL. II. ]S"

him, and he said, ' I hear that you have had a
very good night.'

Yes said she, ' a very good night. And
yet I have heard nothing from him. You sent
my letter ? '

Yes, I sent it.'

Can there have been any mistake ? He
was away, you said, but you know he would
get it this morning, and he might have sent a
telegram just to make me happy.  Doctor ! * she
exclaimed suddenly, ' There are tears in your
eyes !  you have bad news for me which you
are afraid to tell ? ' He bowed his head in
sign of assent  no man could have felt more
wretched.

'He is going to be., married ?' said she,
rushing at once to the furthest limit of her evil
imaginings. He did not speak. She felt that
he could not contradict her words. She lay
perfectly still, but he could see a movement
under the bed-clothes which revealed that she
was clenching her hands together, and her face
gradually assumed a rigidness which showed

that she was bracing up her nerves to endurance.
Two tears rolled down her ashy pale
cheeks, but no others followed.

Are you quite sure of this ? ' she at length
asked in a very low voice. She spoke very
slowly, but her voice was quite firm.

My dear child, yes. I myself could not
believe it at first, but unhappily it is true.'

Why did he seem to want me back again,
then? Why did he put that message to mein
the paper ? ' said she, and each word she
uttered seemed wrung from her only by a
supreme efibrt of will.

Don't think of it  don't think of him ; his
conduct is inexplicable.' The doctor and nurse
both looked at their patient in the greatest
apprehension  her face was growing more and
more deathlike ; but they could see that she
was resolutely determined to endure to the
end.

Be as calm as you can, miss ; you see
you have your own health to think of,' urged
the nurse, and she put out her hand to smooth

N 2

away a bit of Hester's pretty brown hair from
her forehead. She meant it more as an encouraging
caress than a work of necessity, but
at the last moment she shrank from doing it.
Hester was far beyond reach of anything she
could do to soothe her, and the nurse recognised
the fact, and retreated.

My dear,' said the doctor, ' Mr. Dales
housekeeper told me that this was quite
a recent engagement. I shall always reproach
myself for not letting you see those papers.'

The tears once more dimmed Hester's eyes.
She put up her thin white hand to wipe them
away, and hide a look of pain which was passing
over her face.

I am so grieved if you feel that I have
done wrong about them,' said the poor old man.

I don't. I don't think about that at all.
I don't think about anything but him and all
that I have lost ; for he is lost, and for ever ! '
Then after a long pause she said, ' Is it Miss
Treherne ? ' and when the doctor said  Yes,'
she hid her face with her hands, but lay perfectly

still. After some time she said, ' Don't be
unhappy about the papers. If I had seen them
it would have made no difference. He might
perhaps have let me go back to him, but his
heart would not have been with me. He has
loved her for some time. You must tell him
I'm bearing it well. I don't want him to be
miserable on my account. I think, if you
please, I should like to be alone a while.'

The nurse, a homely, ignorant woman,
made the doctor a sign not to consent to this.
Ghastly visions of what might happen if he
did, flitted before her mind's eye; but the
doctor knew better, and said, 'You shall be
left alone; you are so good and brave that
you deserve to have your way. Come, nurse.'

He went and saw some other patients, and
an hour afterwards he looked in on Hester
again. Her cheeks were wet with tears, but
she was not actually crying ; only from time
to time tears of which she was all unconscious
slowly welled into her eyes. He looked
very anxious. He would have preferred a

hearty outburst of grief. She tried to speak
to him, but her voice failed her, and she could
not utter one word. She held out a wan hand
and looked gratefully in his face. He gave the
nurse some directions in private, and bade heron
no account leave Hester long alone. She
lay very still after he was gone. Afternoon
gave way to evening, and evening to night,
and still she was lying there with wide-open
eyes full of quiet misery. When the nurse
spoke to her she answered, but it was easy to
see that she preferred being left alone. * Try
to sleep,' said the nurse, in the early morning
hours ; ' a little bit of sleep would do you more
good than anything. Shut your eyes, and
then you will soon go over.'

Hester shut her eyes obediently, but they
were soon wide open again.

1 had a sister who went wrong, too,' observed
the nurse. ' Oh, miss, what she did
suffer when he deserted her ! '

Hester fixed eyes full of apprehension on
the nurse's face. This was such plain speaking

for a poor wounded girl to hear ; but, alas !
she could not complain of the view of her
conduct which the woman was taking.

He deserted her ? ' repeated Hester.

Yes, miss ; they all desert them sooner or
later,' replied the woman.

A flood of tears rushed to Hester's eyes.
The nurse's words had unsealed the fount of
tears.

Ay, cry, miss, do ; it will do you more
good than anything. It's terrible bad to bear,
I know ; but, miss, dear, I do hope what you
are feeling now will drive you to lead a better
life in future.'

Oh, nurse, be silent ! Do you want to
kill me ? ' But that kind, though coarse-texture
woman had said things which brought
the truth to her mind. The whole current of
her thoughts changed, and instead of lying
there feeling herself a wronged and despitefully
entreated woman, she began to wonder if
she were but receiving her deserts.

CHAPTEE XX.

PEDIGREE MAKING.

Forbear a while,
There's something tells me (but it is not love)
I would not lose you.  Merchant of Venice.

She does not love him, but she will accept
his love if he offer it, and will go through life
thinking little of the gift.' This had been
Hester's bitterest thought after she had seen
Daylesford and Josephine Treherne together.
At that time, if Zeph had been asked if she
would accept him she would have answered
by a decided negative ; a day or two later she
would have denied the possibility of such a
thing even with scorn ; and now she was his
engaged wife! How had this change been
brought about ? She knew of this other tie 
she knew of a strong feeling in her own heart

which ought for ever to have separated her
from him. She was not a child to be talked
into a marriage against her will, and besides
that, who was there to try to persuade her ?
Not her dreamy preoccupied father, not her
mother who so perfectly fulfilled the whole duty
of woman according to Blake's conception of
it, namely, that she should be an emanation of
the man whom she had chosen. Zeph had
not been surprised into the engagement. She
had had time to think and carefully weigh the
question ; but, alas ! when a man like Dales
is weighed in the scales, so many other
things, and most delightful and fascinating
things, cannot fail to be weighed with him.
Zeph's own life seemed to her to be dull, commonplace,
and even tragic in the ugliness and
meanness of its environment. She shuddered
when she thought of it ; her long visit to Berk-hampstead
had made her so alive to the horror
of it that she could not bear the idea of returning
home. ,It was so delicious to pass day after
day knowing nothing of the weary struggle to

make one pound do the work of two, and two
servants do the work of three. Life in Lome
Gardens, as compared with Hfe at the Castle,
was like living down in a coal-pit instead of in
the blessed light of day. And yet, after a while,
she would have to return to that wretched
existence. Her father could not stay at Berk-hampstead
for ever. All was beautiful and
harmonious there, and it was so easy to be
good. Sometimes she was a trifle dull, for she
had not many resources of her own, but she
had got into the habit of going into the library
with her father, and he generally found her
some little employment which made her feel
busy. It was strange Daylesford did not come
to see how they were going on ; sometimes she
felt a little piqued at his indifference on that
point, but if Mrs. Scatcherd said anything about
it, she declared that she could not understand
why he should leave London for such a quiet
place. If he had come to the Castle there
would surely have been a little more gaiety,
and Zeph pined for gaiety, and most of all for

another fancy ball. She had begun to forget
about Hester, and the pain she had felt on first
hearing of this liaison. These quiet weeks with
her father and mother had done much to restore
her calm, and yet in spite of tranquil days spent
in peace and great delight at the pleasantness
of the life she was then leading, Zeph could not
quite forget. On the afternoon of July 27,
Zeph was not doing anything particular, for
Mr. Treherne needed little help just then ; she
was in the library, but only for the sake of
companionship, and she was trying to make
herself believe that she was enjoying a book
she had in her hand. Suddenly she was called
away, for Mrs. Scatcherd had come in the
prettiest of pony-carriages to ask her to accompany
her to a village about six miles off. ' It
will do you good,' said she, kindly ; ' you sit in
the house too much ; you mope ! Not that
moping seems to suit you badly  I never saw
you look so pretty. Your complexion is lovely !
I wish I were a pretty young girl like you, but
I am quite old and plain.'

Go into the drawing-room, and look at
yourself in the glass, while I put on my things,'
said Zeph, for Mrs. Scatcherd and she were
standing by the hall-door ; ' do go, and then I
am quite sure you will see that you are not

Oh, yes, I am ; but I would not have come
out in this dingy tussle if I had known what
a radiant sylph was going to sit by my side.
White does suit you, dear, you look quite
delicious ; and how clever of you to wear those
becoming violet pansies. Put on that little
straw hat of yours, and then I defy any one to
resist you. You will be the queen of fairyland,
and I shall be the nut-brown maid. It can't
be helped. Be quick.'

Zeph was quick, and the pony made a
brilliant little departure. The day was splendidly
fine, but not too warm. The sky was
cloudless, the air calm. Everything was
steeped in sunshine. Zeph's heart bounded 
she was happy, she knew not why. Perhaps
it was the change of scene, for without quite
knowing it, she was often dull. How could

she be otherwise, having as she did with two
old people whose sole aim in life was to identify
themselves with the parchments they were always
poring over. From the summit of a long low
hill and far away on the road before them,
Zeph and her companion saw a cab struggling
slowly upwards. The sun glinted on the top
of it and made shining white patches of light 
the dust rose in clouds behind it.

Oh, look at the dust that wretched cab is
making ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd. ' We
shall be in the midst of it directly, and then
good-bye to all our nice freshness of appearance
! It is too bad  we make no dust.'

But we must,' said Zeph. ' If it makes
dust, we must make it too. We don't feel
that which we make ourselves, perhaps.'

I said I was old,' observed Mrs. Scatcherd,
but there is one thing which used to torment
me when I was a child that I remember as if
it were yesterday, and I could not be more
than three, if so much. I was so little that I
just came up to the knees of the big people

who took hold of my hand whenever I walked
out ; and I used to be choked with the dust
they made. I can recollect the clouds of it
they made each step they took, and it just rose
to the level of my eyes and mouth. That is
one good of growing up  your breathing arrangements
get to a better level. Do you
remember suffering from that ? '

I ? Oh no,' replied Zeph, as if she were
disappointed at having been deprived of these
inconveniences ; ' I have none of these memories
 my youth was spent in a town.'

I wish my age was ! ' said her companion,
fervently. ' I should like to know who is in
that cab  there is some luggage beside the
driver.'

'Some one for the Castle probably  perhaps
a new servant.'

Oh, no,' replied Mrs. Scatcherd, who was
intimately acquainted with the affairs of every
household within a radius of ten miles of her
own home. ' They are not changing any of
the servants at the Castle  I know that.'

Perhaps it is Mr. Daylesford ? '

Oh, you don't suppose that he would come
in a cab  he would have telegraphed for the
carriage. Fancy his coming in that thing ! '

'And he wrote to the butler about some
arrangements yesterday  I know he did~he
would not have done that if he had intended
to come to-day.'

He may have changed his mind  he must,
for I do believe it is he ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Scatcherd, in great delight. ' But how sunburnt
he is, poor dear, I should scarcely have
known him ! ' She was right. It was Dales
He stopped the driver at once and got
out of the cab to speak to them, looking very
bright and handsome, but, as Mrs. Scatcherd
had said, richly bronzed by Icarian sunshine.
He expressed his delight at meeting them
so unexpectedly. They did the same, together
with warm congratulations on the happy termination
of his anxiety. Mrs. Scatcherd, as
usual, monopolised most of the conversation,
but Zeph looked quietly pleased to see him.

When he had re-entered his cab, which now
seemed dingier than ever, and they, too, had.
begun to pursue their way in an opposite direction,
Mrs. Scatcherd said, 'My dear, I
always thought that man was in love with
you, but now I am absolutely convinced of
it!'

Zeph made no reply, but when Mrs. Snatched
looked to see why she was so silent, she
saw that she was blushing violently. In truth,
Zeph herself had seen something in his greeting
which made Mrs. Scatcherd's words no surprise
to her.

'You need not deny it. I am never
deceived in things of that kind. That man
is over head and ears in love with you, and
you are a very lucky girl ! '

Zeph, trembling with strong feeling, laid
her hand on Mrs. Scatcherd's arm and said,
I think you are forgetting what you yourself
told me before Mr. Daylesford went away 
about that  that girl, you know.'

At first Mrs. Scatcherd was puzzled by

Zeph's words, but when she added that last
fragment of explanation, a light broke in upon
her brain  she understood what she meant at
once. ' It is he who is forgetting her, not I ;
and a very good thing too ! Such disgraceful
things must come to an end some time, and it
ought to be a great comfort to you to know
that you have helped to put an end to this-you
have been the means of rescuing him from
the clutches of this wicked woman  be thankful,
my dear.'

He ought to marry her,' said Zeph, in a
low voice.

Marry her ! I should like to know who
is going to do that ! '

I don't suppose you are right about his
feeling for me,' said Zeph, completely ignoring
what her friend had just said ; ' but I am afraid
I could never return his liking.'

Not return his liking ! ' Mrs. Scatcherd
stared at her in amazement. ' Not return his
liking ! I never heard anything so absurd in
my life ! Why, you might search the whole

VOL. II.

world through and not find any one so worthy
to be loved ! Any girl might be proud of
him ; he is a thoroughly fine fellow, manly
and noble. Just think how splendidly he has
behaved to his brother ; and how rich he is,
and handsome, and what a position he has ! '

Yes ; but in spite of all that, a girl could
not make herself love him if she were not inclined.'


Oh, yes, she could. She would be a very
fooHsh creature if she couldn't. Any girl of
sense would contrive to love him somehow or
other  that is, if she did not love some one else
already '  added Mrs. Scatcherd unexpectedly,
and at the same time she fixed a piercing look
of inquiry on poor shrinking Zeph.

Zeph could not meet her gaze, her eyelids
fell, and she said in a low voice, ' It is not anyone
I can ever marry.'

Then if it is some one whom you can never
marry, you ought to be wiser than go on
thinking about him. My dear, you would be
acting most madly if you refused Godfrey

Daylesford, supposing such a great piece of
luck befell you, and he were to offer to
you.'

Mrs. Scatcherd, you forget what I cannot
you have no idea how that '

Stuff ! Besides, it is your duty to save
him. Nothing but really loving some good
young girl can save him.'

And very likely you are entirely mistaking
his feeling for me.'

Very likely,' replied Mrs. Scatcherd, with
mock humility. ' I never was considered a
person of much penetration ! My dear,' she
added with much fervour, ' I tell you again,
that man loves you ! '

I wish you would not talk of it,' said Zeph,
piteously. She herself was almost inclined to
believe he did, but she could not bear to hear
a half-formed thought put into words.

They spoke of other things ; they made
then call and set their faces homeward ; they
talked to each other, but in a dull subdued
way, avoiding all mention of Daylesford. Zeph



had a consciousness that she was each moment
drawing nearer and nearer to a crisis in
her life. Earnestly she wished that things
had been rather different. There was that
dark circumstance in Daylesford's previous
history, and there was another and yet more
potent obstacle. She still loved John Simonds.
Do what she would, she could not forget him.
Had it not been for these two obstacles, how
brilliantly happy she might have been  that
is, if what Mrs. Scatcherd had just said were
true. Everything life could offer that was
delightful would then have been hers. Dales
was charming, and Daylesford was rich
and great, and Zeph was ambitious to her
heart's core.

How you have been worrying yourself all
the way home ! ' observed Mrs. Scatcherd when
they reached the park gates. ' Your poor,
dear face has shown me how you were tormenting
yourself. And my dear child, your duty
is so plain.'

 Oh, don't say any more about it,' pleaded

Zeph, looking weary with the distress of her
own thoughts. They tried to keep up something
that might be called conversation on
other matters, as they drove through the long
avenue ; but it was a vain effort, and it was a
relief when they came to the Castle. ' Goodbye,
my dear,' whispered Mrs. Scatcherd.
Take my words seriously to heart.'

Zeph went straight to her own room ; she
wanted to escape from sight, and had not much
more time than was necessary to dress for
dinner. Her manner was very subdued all the
evening. She answered when she was spoken
to, but did not originate anything. All that
she could do was to look beautiful, and very
gentle and sweet. Mr. and Mrs. Treherne
stayed in the drawing-room all the evening asa
compliment to their host. He could have
dispensed with this act of self-sacrifice, for he
had been hoping for a repetition of his former
tete-astute with their daughter ; but he was
touched and pleased by Zeph's warm though
unobtrusive sympathy when he told them how

this brother Lad been saved. Mr. Treherne
reported progress, too, and dwelt on some discoveries
he had made, and there never was a
chance of speaking to Zeph alone.

The next morning was not unlike the evening
before so far as regarded restraint, but it
was very wet. When breakfast was over, Zeph
went to the window for a minute or two, and
stood watching the heavy rain beating down
the flowers outside and making great pools in
the corners of the beds.

Come, Zeph,' said Mr. Treherne ; he had
become accustomed to having her in the library
with him.

Oh, don't go to the library ! ' exclaimed
Daylesford. ' Come and play battledore and
shuttlecock in the corridor.'

One of the battledores is broken,' answered
Zeph, who was very much afraid of being left
alone with him, for she had a presentiment of
what was coming.

Oh, but we will mend it,' said Daylesford ;
we will get your father to pick us out a nice

strong bit of parchment from one of the charters
in the imminent room.'

My dear friend,' exclaimed Mr. Treherne,
fervently, ' you are no doubt speaking in jest ;
but if you knew the fate of many a precious bit
of parchment as well as I do, I think you would
forbear. The second decade of Livy was used
just as you want me to use your charter. One
page only was rescued from an injured battledore.
Think of that ! one solitary page !
Promise me  promise me solemnly  never to
say such a thing again, even in jest.' Then he
went away, and quietly, but decidedly and as
if she preferred it, Zeph followed her father and
mother.

Daylesford began to see that all the delicious
opportunities of seeing her alone which he
had once enjoyed were over. She now seemed
to feel that her place was with her father and
mother, and he was vexed to think that he had
himself to blame for this ; for it was he who,
for the sake of showing Mrs. Treherne the
castle and park, had suggested that Miss Theme

should for once become her father's
assistant. Zeph's manner was quite friendly,
but he was certain that she wished to avoid
him. He looked into the library once or twice
it did seem so strange to see her sitting therewith
the old folks  they seemed to take it asa
matter of course that she should be by their
side  pen in hand, making notes, copying
something, or, more usually, doing nothing.
Very soon he began to hate that rooni, and
look upon it as a dismal pit expressly constructed
to swallow up youth and beauty. He
went there, for the third time, later in the day.
She was looking tired ; Mr. Treherne was lost
in the depths of the inner room ; Mrs. Treherne
quietly knitting. ' The sun has come out. Miss
Treherne,' said he ; 'do give up work and take
a little turn. If you think the garden too
damp, we will go into the conservatories 
there are some flowers I want you to see.'

She looked up in some distress, and put her
finger on her lips. ' Don't say anything more
about going out just now,' she whispered.

Father wants me in a minute or two, I think.'
She whispered  did she not know that she
might have spoken in her usual voice  her
father had made up his mind to endure periodical
visits from his kind host, and never to let
himself be disturbed by anything that occurred
when Daylesford was there ?

Mrs. Treherne will do anything he wants,'
pleaded Daylesford.

Yes, but he likes me to be there in case
he has anything for me to do,' answered Zeph.

Then let us go to the far bay-window
until he comes out of the muniment room.
You will be within reach of recall, and we can
talk without fear of disturbing him. Do come ;
I want to tell you some of my adventures  we
have scarcely had a word together yet.'

Very reluctantly Zeph retreated with him
to the other end of the room. The window
was a wide bay, with a long low window-seat,
on which they found comfortable places side
by side. A writing-table stood in front of it,
and Zeph, who now seemed to think that she

could not exist happily without a pen in her
hand, mechanically drew this table nearer to
her and began scribbling on a sheet of paper.
He gently took the pen from her and said :
No ; you may have a pen in your hand when
you are sitting at that other table, but while
you are here, I mean to have your undivided
attention.' She folded her hands in assumed
meekness and sat dutifully looking at him.

He smiled and said, ' Are you taking me as
part of your daily stage of duty ? ' He was so
glad at having got her to himself, even so much
as this, that he felt quite gay.

I don't at all dislike duty,' replied Zeph.
It grows on one.'

It's a case of " seen too oft, familiar with
its face," I suppose,' said he.

But Zeph's range of reading had not included
the poem in question, and no ray of
intelligence betraying familiarity with the quotation
brightened her eyes. He did not mind
that, he had not lost his heart to her because
she knew where quotations came from. Just

at this moment, Mr. Treherne emerged from
the inner room and made his way to his own
table with a bit of discoloured parchment in
his hand. He was feasting his eyes on the
sight of it as he went, and he carefully cleared
a place to spread it out in safety.

Now I must go,' said Zeph.

Oh no, he has not so much as looked to
see if you are there,' said Daylesford. ' Wait
till he remembers your existence, at any rate.'

Zeph apparently resigned herself to this.
Daylesford was anxious to take her beyond
reach of a summons. He looked out of the
window behind him and said, ' It is so fine outside
now ; that shower has made everything
deliciously fresh. Do come out for a minute.'

No, thank you,' said Zeph, rising ; ' I
ought to go back to my work; ' and so saying
she began to move.

You surely would not be so unkind,' said
he, venturing to lay a restraining hand gently
on her arm. She dropped back into her seat
in a moment to make him take his hand away.

'Your father is buried in that document
said he, in a very low voice, for he was so
afraid of reminding him of their presence ; 'and
you know you were not really doing anything.'

You don't believe in my work ! ' she said,
looking dissatisfied.

Oh yes, I do ; you must be quite a good
antiquary by this time.'

Quite. I know all about terriers now ;
and do you know, Mr. Daylesford, I can
actually draw up a pedigree. I dare say you
don't believe me, but I can.'

Oh, can you ? I very much want you todo
something to my pedigree.'

What is it ? '

To help me to make an entry in it.'

I wonder whether I can,' she said.

You certainly can.'

'How proud I shall be if I have learned
enough to do it.'

You can do it without knowing anything.'

'Ah, how you lessen the honour and
glory ! ' she complained. ' I was so hoping for

an opportunity of showing my newly acquired
antiquarian knowledge.'

But I shall give you an opportunity of
showing me something I value a million times
more than that,' said he, in a still lower voice.
He looked so different from his usual self that
she began to wish her father would call her
back to his side, but he was hopelessly absorbed
in the perusal of his parchment treasure.
Again she looked at Daylesford, and saw his
eyes fixed on hers with an expression so full of
meaning, and meaning which she could not
fail to understand, that she almost cowered
beneath his gaze ; and turning her eyes in
another direction made things no better, for
she still seemed to feel his fixed on hers, and
knew what she should see in them if she dared
to look round again. Blushing, trembling, and
hardly able to speak from nervousness, she
made a last great struggle to restore their
interview to an easy footing, and pulled a sheet
of paper towards her, saying,

'Let me show you how clever I am at

drawing up pedigrees  I will do yours, but I
can't begin at the very beginning, for I don't
know the names of all the people, and how
things went in your family,  I mean if fathers
always succeeded sons properly, or if collateral
sometimes came in.' She was in such a state
of confusion and agitation, that she had no
idea how she was reversing the usual laws of
succession in this speech, and was only partly
conscious how her voice was trembling. ' I
shall have to begin with the husband of my
dear benefactress, Phillis Arnold,' and as she
named her, she involuntarily turned to lookout
on the lawn where her tombstone lay, a
gleaming grey slab in a broad expanse of sunlit
green.

Daylesford watched her as she wrote, and
she wrote quietly for some time.

You are doing it all right,' said he, ' so far
as their names go ; but you ought to give the
dates of their births, deaths, and marriages, and
you don't know them.'

Oh, I shall easily get them from the

registers and tombstones in the church,' said
Zeph lightly, for she was beginning to hope
that she was going to escape the danger of
which she had just been in such terror. She
heard him say, ' Unhappily, you won't get all
of them there.' Then she remembered the circumstances
of his father's marriage, and what
an unfeeling creature she must appear to him.
Oh, how thoughtless I must seem to you ! '
said she, now looking sorrowfully in his face.
Forgive me ! My head is confused with other
thoughts.'

Mine is confused too, and yet it is only full
of one thought,' he replied, ' and the sooner
you know it '

Don't tell it to me now,' she exclaimed ;
she felt as if she would have liked to sink into
the earth.

Then I'll write it,' said he. ' Give me
you: pedigree, and I will add something which
will make it entirely right according to my way
of thinking;' and he took a pen and wrote
something hurriedly. Then he laid a sheet of

blotting-paper on it, and looked anxiously in
her face.

Father is getting so fidgety ! ' said Zeph ;
he hears us talking.'

It can't be helped ! ' said Daylesford 
never had Mr. Treherne's feelings been so disregarded
before.

Daylesford folded the paper and gave it to
her, looking fixedly at her as he did so. ' Eead
what I have written,' said he, ' and tell me if it
is right.'

Perhaps it is difficult to understand,' said
she.

No, not at all.'

Difficult to answer then ? '

I hope not. Look at it  you are trying
me too much. Eead it, and remember that the
happiness of my whole life is in your hands.'

Don't ask me to read it while you are
here,' said she, piteously.

He rose to go in a moment. Had he been
alone with her he would have stayed to plead
his cause, but as it was, with Mrs. Treherne

looking up from her work every three or four
minutes, and with the certainty that if he raised
his voice Mr. Treherne would be disturbed aud
at once call Zeph back to her duties, he felt he
could say nothing likely to move her. ' I'll go
into the garden,' said he ; ' you will make me
unspeakably happy if you will come to me
there.'

Zeph watched him leave the room, and
then opened the folded paper. She saw the
pedigree she had been trying to draw up, but
at the end she saw some words in his handwriting.


Marmaduke, = Phillis, tau. John Arnold, Esq.
1). d. . I of Sunny Lea ; l. d.

Marmaduke, h. = Sicilia, tau. and heiress of

d. Feb. 4, 18. I Sh Gilbert Dent, of Boughton
I l d. 18.

I I

Jasper, & Cyril, l. = Janet, tau. Lieut. Murray ;

d. unmarried, d. before his father. I h. 18  d. 18  .

I

Marmaduke, h. 18  ; Godfrey, l. 18. -josephine,

became Governor of the eldest tau. Edward

Icarian Islands, and was Trelierne, Esq., and dearly

much loved by his brother. loved hy Godfrey Daylesford,

on the very earliest day he could

prevail on her to close.

VOL. II.

She sat in a kind of stupor  that which
she greatly feared had come upon her. She
saw him in the garden and could not but own
that he was a man any woman might be proud
of. He was handsome, kindly, and had generously
offered her so much. And yet it was so
difficult to know what to do ! She sat buried
in thought. Her head drooped lower and
lower, and at last she laid it on the table and
tried to still its throbbing.

Mrs. Treherne observed this and made her
husband look.

Zeph, my love,' said he, ' I hope you are
not ill'

No, dear,' she replied, sitting up at once ;
not ill at all, thank you.'

Come here, then, and let me have you near
me,' said he.

She crossed the room with slow and faltering
steps and sat down in her accustomed place
she even took up her pen.

No, my child,' said he, * you shall not do
any more work for me to-days You do not

look well. You may give me that bit of writing
you did after breakfast, I am ready for it now.'

Zeph, in a maze of confusion, began turning
over the papers lying before her  her version of
the Daylesford Pedigree, what she had copied,
and other things. Seeing that she could not
find what he wanted, he put out his hand to
examine the papers himself. She took up the
pedigree and gave it to him.

Will you read that, father,' she said, ' and
tell me what I am to do ? '

What is it ? ' he asked. ' What have you
been doing ? '

What is it ? A pedigree ! ' said Mrs. Tree
who had come nearer and was reading
over her husband's shoulder. Zeph rose and
went to her father, put her arm round his neck,
and laid her soft cheek against his.

Dear father, help me,' said she. ' It is a
fragment of pedigree that I drew up to show
Mr. Daylesford that I had learnt something by
sitting here with you, and he wrote that bit at
the end, and that is how he says he wants his

p 2

pedigree to be, father ; and now he is in the
garden waiting till I give him an answer.'

Mr. Treherne drew his head away from her
that he might look in her face to see if she
were in her sound mind. He had never thought
of Zeph's marrying at all, much less of her
marrying a man like Daylesford. His eyes were
full of astonishment.

Zeph, my child, are you in earnest ? Mr.
Daylesford has offered you his hand ? '

Yes, dear, he has, but '

Such a marriage exceeds my most sanguine
hopes ! My dear Zeph, a place in such a
pedigree as the Daylesfords' is not offered to a
girl like you once in twenty years ! '

But, father dear, I am in doubt whether I
can love him enough to marry him.'

'Then you had better go to your room
and take solemn thought with yourself. You
must not accept him lightly. You yourself best
know the state of your owen feelings. Go, my
dear, and take ample time to reflect.' Then, as
this was a crisis in her life, and he loved her

dearly, he added, ' My dear, would you like to
have your mother with you ? I will spare her
to you, if you wish it.'

No, thank you,' said Zeph ; ' I had better
be alone. Thank you for not trying to persuade
me.'

She shut herself in her own room and tried
to think she loved Daylesford, for a life linked
with his would exactly suit her ambition. She
could not deceive herself. She admired him,
she liked to be with him, but he had never
touched her heart, and she knew why. After
more than an hour had passed, she resolved to
write and say she could not marry him, and to
give him the true reason, for she knew he
would accept no other. She wrote her letter
and sat for a long while looking at it. The
sacrifice was too great for her, she could not
send that letter. If she did she would lose a
brilliant future  she would have to leave the
Castle at once ; she would never be invited
there again ; never be invited to anything by
Godfrey Daylesford, but have to live in Lome

Gardens just as she had Hved before she knew
him ! She could not do it ! Why should she
sacrifice so much for the sake of a man she
never intended to marry? She absolutely
shuddered at the thought of Lome Gardens.
She tore up the letter she had written. It was
a foolish letter she thought, but it had done her
good to write it. She took a new piece of
paper and wrote ; ' It shall be as you wish
some time,' put it in an envelope, and sent it
to Daylesford. And thus was an engagement
which brought such misery on others entered
into.

CHAPTEE XXI.

BECAUSE I HAVE Seen HIM.

The bridegroom spoke low and led onward the bride,
And before the high altar they stood side by side,
The rite book is opened  the rite is begun,
They have knelt down together to rise up as one.

Lay of the Brown Rosary.

'And now that the thing is done,' said Zeph,
I do not intend to make myself miserable
about what has gone before. I shall take all
the good that comes in my way and enjoy it.'
This she said to herself in the stillness of her
chamber, but she had not the slightest conception
of the amount of good (good according to
her conception of the word) that would come
her way. Before she was engaged to Dales
she had been a pretty girl on a visit at
the Castle, whose existence was to be made as
pleasant as possible while she was there, but

that was all. Now she was the great lady of
the place, and every one treated her with a
deference that at first made her uncomfortable.
Daylesford himself was so happy and
proud of her that every minute of her life
seemed a triumph. Hitherto she had known
nothing of such homage as this. She was
almost distressed by it. And she was consulted
about everything. She had suddenly
become a person whose voice had weight in
every discussion, and whose lightest wish was
sure, if possible, to be gratified. She had the
great happiness, too, of seeing that her father
was delighted with her engagement. She taxed
him with caring for it because it gave her
the entree of the Daylesford pedigree, but she
-knew that she did him an injustice and that
he heartily liked her betrothed husband. Her
days were now spent in a bewilderment of
pleasures and arrangements. The ' County '
came to congratulate  the county entertained
them, and the most beautiful presents arrived
daily. She had said that she would not allow

herself to think of the past  it is scarcely too
much to say that from the time when her
engagement was made known she had no
leisure to think of anything but each day's
brimming measure of excitement and occupation.
Long conversations with Daylesford and
endless consultations with dress-makers and
milliners, and letters to shops, and letters
thanking people for wedding-presents, and
hours spent in receiving pleasant visitors and
paying pleasant visits made up the sum of
Zeph's existence. Sometimes the thought
flashed into her mind, ' I might have been
sitting boring myself to death on my old black
box in Lome Gardens if I had not the sense to
tear up that letter of refusal ! ' and she sighed
a deep sigh of relief at having for ever escaped
that woe. She was not even going back thereto
be married ! Mr. Treherne did not want to
have to take a journey and leave his work for
so long, and Zeph hated the thought of going ;
so she entreated Daylesford to let the wedding
take place quietly in the little tumble-down

parish church close by. Dr. Scatcherd was to
perform the ceremony, and Jemmy Benson,
the little boy who had been hiding in the
bedroom at the vicarage, on the eventful day
when Zeph had spent the morning there, and
who had become a great friend of hers, was to
help Jack to hold up her magnificent train.
Marrying quietly did not mean anything beyond
the use of the word. Zeph was to have
her due length of train and due richness of
silk, and she was to wear the diamonds that
her brother-in-law the governor had given her.
He was coming all the way from Santa Eulalia
to be present at the ceremony. She was to
have four bridesmaids ; but there was a little
vexation connected with the bridesmaids, for
she had had great difficulty in persuading her
sister Polly to be one of the number. Polly
had refused, and the only reason she had given
was that she did not care about the engagement.
Polly had yielded, but her words had
left a sting, which on the very rare occasions
when Zeph had time to think of such things

still caused her pain. She could not help
thinking sometimes of her own sisters and their
sayings, but she never thought of the lover of
her youth ; and as for Hester, for the present,
at all events, all remembrance of her was
absolutely wiped out. If any one had told
Zeph a week or two ago that a day would
come when these things would pass from her
mind, she would have laughed the idea to
scorn  but such was the case now ; her every
thought was given to pretty dresses, jewels,
carriages, court ceremonies, and all the rest
was a tissue of bright hopes.

She was rather afraid of the governor.
My dearest Zeph, you need not be afraid of
him,' said Daylesford ; ' he will love you, I am
certain, both for your own sake and for mine.'

I hope so, I am sure,' said she ; * you must
promise me to tell him that both the Trehernes
and Seatons are very good families.'

He was so much in love that he scarcely
smiled, and when she went on to tell him that
she was glad he had no other near relations.

he did not object to that either. The governor
came a fortnight before the wedding. He was
as handsome as his younger brother, and very
like him, but stronger, and perhaps cleverer-looking,
and he seemed to be at least ten years
older than Godfrey. His arrival doubled the
excitement ; and now there was a constant
coming and going of London people and great
and small county neighbours. Miss Everilda
and Polly, Agnes and Jack were all at the
Castle now, and sometimes Zeph was in an
agony of apprehension lest Miss Everilda's
absurdities should disgrace the family, or Polly
or Agnes seem too infinitely below the Dales
standard of propriety. Miss Everilda was
enraptured with the Castle  she sat for hours
together crouched on the stairs gazing at the
pictures, and jotting down any great thoughts
which occurred to her, in a crimson morocco
note-book. She wrote poems by the dozen,
and when writing of the two Daylesfords was
not above making use of Castor and Pollux.
Jack spent his time with the Scatcherd

boys, most of whom were Indian children and
had no holidays. Polly and Agnes wandered
about the house, garden, and grounds in perfectly
new, well-chosen, and well-made dresses ;
for Miss Everilda would not have them lightly
esteemed by their new great relations, and had
supplied them with an outfit. They had
blossomed out into fine handsome Teutonic
goddess-like girls, and walked with their heads
erect, and with honest clear eyes looked straight
out on a world which was now treating their
family with most unexpected kindness. They
had never seen such a handsome place as the
Castle. Zeph had paid visits to handsomer
places with her betrothed, and knew that it
was not by any means the most splendid nobleman's
house in the kingdom, but they thought
it was.

It is such a pity that it is not really yours,'
said Agnes, one morning when they were all in
Zeph's room. ' Isn't it, Polly ? '

Polly, who though much reassured as to
Zeph's feelings, could not forget how John

Simonds had looked and spoken that day at
the Kennedyss, did not speak ; she was often
silent when the Daylesford honours and glories
were under discussion.

It is rather a pity said Zeph, pensively.
especially as Marmaduke is always away ; but
then it is so nice to think of Godfrey behaving
so well, and of the two brothers being such
good brothers to each other.'

They might have been just as good
brothers,' replied Agnes, ' and the place have
belonged to your Mr. Daylesford ; as it is, it is
lost ! It can't be said to belong to either of
them now.'

Oh, it's all right ! ' exclaimed Zeph ; ' they
have arranged it as they think best, and I quite
agree with them.'

Well, I don't ! ' said Agnes, decidedly ;
and I think the governor puts himself too
much forward, considering he has no right to
anything but what his younger brother gives
him.'

Zeph went away. She did not choose to

listen to this, and did not see what Agnes
had to do with it. Zeph liked the governor,
and the only fault that she saw in him was that
he absorbed too much of Godfrey's time ; but
even that did not distress her much, for he was
only to be in England that one fortnight. Zephyrs
on her way to the drawing-room to escape
Agnes : on the stairs she encountered Miss
Everilda.

You are the luckiest girl in the world, my
dear Zeph,' said she. ' You have a peerless
lover and a princely brother-in-law, and you
are young and beautiful, and have a career
before you ! '

There she touched a chord in Zeph's nature
which vibrated at once. All this was not
fulfilment  it was but the prelude to a long
course of social triumphs. Godfrey and she
were both fitted by nature to shine in the
great world, and in the great world they would
seek their happiness and find it.

Mrs. Scatcherd is downstairs in the ,'
added Miss Everilda, casually, ' I

got SO far as this on my way upstairs to ask
you to go and see her, and then I had a good
idea, and just sat down a moment to make a
note of it.'

Oh, I am so busy. She is always here ! '
said Zeph, impatiently.

That was true. Mrs. Scatcherd was persuaded
that nothing could go right unless she
herself lent a helping hand to it, and wanted
every one to feel the same. Zeph had become
rather intimate with her without much caring
for her ; principally because Mrs. Scatcherd
was the kind of person who insisted on being
intimate, and now Zeph bitterly regretted
certain conversations which had taken place
between them. She did not want to see her
now, and went back to her room and asked one
of her sisters to go and say politely that she
was too busy to go downstairs.

Too busy ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd to
Polly, who was the one who went ; ' I can well
believe it ! What an exciting time this is !
Even for me it is exciting, but then I really

have had a great deal to do with bringing this
match about. Just think what madness it
would have been if she had refused him ! '

Polly looked at Mrs. Scatcherd in amazement.
The excited little lady was in full swing
of exulting self-glorification, and wanted no
answer to anything she said. 'Perfect madness
! What queer miserable lives girls would
often make for themselves, if they had not
some one with judgment by their side ! You
will scarcely believe it, I know, but it took a
great deal of persuading to make that dear
sister of yours marry Mr. Daylesford. It must
never go beyond ourselves, of course, but for a
long time she was determined to refuse him !
I need make no secret of all this with you
you know more about it than I do. You, of
course, know why . '
Polly hesitated.

And you know it is not as if she could

have married this other man that she had such

a fancy for,' added Mrs. Scatcherd. ' She never

would have married him. Just fancy what

vol II. Q

folly it would have been to refuse such a first-rate
marriage as this for a shadow ! Well, let
bygones be bygones  I shall always rejoice at
the part I have been permitted to play. You
must promise me not to mention this conversation
 your dear sister might not like it. Promise
me you won't, and let us say no more
about it. I want to know if she has had any
nice new presents.'

Polly sat for a long time after Mrs.
Scatcherd's frivolous presence had at last been
removed, doubting what she ought to do. It
seemed so dreadful to speak to Zeph on such a
subject as this  so wicked to leave her unspoken
to. At last, slowly and thoughtfully, she walked
upstairs to her sister's room. The two girls had
of late appeared to have changed characters.
Zeph was given over to dress and vanity, and
Polly had become grave and anxious. She
opened Zeph's door timidly. What she saw
was this : Zeph, who, owing to her father's
liberal salary and to his and Miss Everilda's
boundless generosity on this great occasion,

was in no want of money, had received a large
box of hats from London on approbation, and
was now standing at the looking-glass trying to
get an idea of their effect. She was turning her
head this way and that, and smiling her satisfaction
at her own image in the glass.

Polly was very much afraid of speaking to
Zeph about her marriage. Nothing but a strong
feeling of anxiety and duty would have made
her risk her almost inevitable indignation. She
said, ' Zeph, I want to say a few words to you,
dear.' Zeph knew in a moment that it was
something that she would think disagreeable,
and turned to face Polly in a way that made
her so nervous that she uttered her thoughts in
any words which presented themselves. * Zeph,
dear, do you never fear that you have chosen
the wrong man? '

Polly's words fell so strangely on an intelligence
which had separated itself from everything
that did not concern the future, that fora
moment Zeph did not seem to understand
them. Then she coloured violently and said,

Q 2

Mary, how dare you ? How can you say such
a thing to me ? '

Because I have seen him ! ' said Polly,
earnestly. ' I have seen him, and talked with
him, and know how much he loves you, and
how much right you have given him to believe
that you returned his affection.'

Zeph turned away, but Polly saw that her
face was crimson with the sudden shame of this.

Mary, be silent ! ' she said. ' You know
that I am going to be married in a few days.
I wonder your own sense of decency does not
prevent your speaking in such a way ! '

Polly was by no means abashed, there was
a great deal of honest fervour in her. She laid
her hands on Zeph's shoulder, and said, ' Zeph,
I am your own sister. I have loved you always,
even when I seemed most disagreeable ; you
know how we are situated ; you know that we
have no father and mother to guide us. If
I don't speak to you about this, no one will.
I know I am not equal to you in any way,
but be kind to me and listen. Do you love

Mr. Daylesford ? Can you honestly say you
do?'

Zeph tried to break loose from her sister's
grasp, but that was no easy thing to do. Polly
was strong in physical strength, strong in sense
of right. Zeph ceased to contend with her.
Answer, dear  answer truly,' persisted Polly.

How stupid ! ' exclaimed Zeph, angrily ;
how ridiculously stupid you are ! He asked
me that, of course  Godfrey asked me that 
and I said yes, and no one else has anything todo
with it.'

Then let me put my question in another
way  Zeph, I will speak  you must listen ! '
Por Zeph was saying ' JSTo ! No ! ' and trying to
escape, ' Can you honestly say that you have
ceased to love John ? '

Zeph again flushed crimson, but this time
with anger.

Mary, this is unbearable ! '

No, dear, it is not. I entreat you to believe
that I only speak because I love you.'

Then if you speak because you love me,

sobbed Zeph, ' why do you speak of things
likely to make me unhappy ? All that is past
and gone. I never think of it. I never want
to think of it. I could not have been happy
with John, he ought to have known it. Fancy
a girl, brought up as I have been, being willing
to begin another life of the same kind, but of
her own making ! The thing is absurd  if ever
I thought of it I was a fool !  I should have
died of a broken heart ! '

Polly shook her head.

'You still have not answered my first
question,' she urged. 'Do you love Mr.
Daylesford ? '

Of course I do ! ' replied Zeph ; ' am I not
going to marry him in four or five days ? If I
said no, what would you do  take upon yourself
to go and tell him that the marriage must
he broken ofi*?'

Polly sighed wearily, and said, ' Better
even do that than let you marry him when
you loved another man. Oh, Zeph ! say what
you will, I fear you do. Have some sense,

have some true feeling, don't go madly into
this just because all the outside trappings of
the life Mr. Daylesford offers you are so pretty
and handsome, and to your taste. Ask yourself
"if you love him enough to be a good, true
wife to him whether he is rich or poor.'

Of course I do, but I prefer to have him
rich. Mary, I dare say, all this is well meant,
but you are behaving very like a goose ! '

Polly relaxed her hold. She told herself
that she might have known that it was in vain
for a poor blundering creature like herself to
touch the heart or conscience of such a girl asher
sister ! She had tried and she had failed,
and she knew it was in vain to say any more.
Zeph meant to do it. That was all.

I have said my words of warning,' said
Polly ; ' you despise me for saying them.
Give me a kiss to show that you are not angry
with me. God grant you may never regret
what you are doing ! ' and she left the room.
These words rang in Zeph's ears. Her heartfelt
very full, and she sat for a long while

without being able to move. She wished
Polly had shown her the kindness of being
silent on this subject. She had spent an hour
or more much less pleasantly than any she had
known for some weeks. Polly had stirred up
certain thoughts, raised certain doubts. They
were thoughts and doubts which Zeph was
quite equal to laying to rest again, but not
without an effort and assuredly not without
pain.

When she went down to luncheon, however,
her face was bright as usual. She showed no
sign of consciousness or resentment in her
treatment of Polly  no change in her behaviour
to Daylesford. She could look in the
face of both without an effort, and speak as
hight-heartedly as if nothing had happened ;
and five days afterwards, when she went to the
village altar with him, and pledged her word
to love, honour, and obey him, she did it
unhesitatingly ; she shed no tear, apparently
harboured no doubt, shrank from no pledge.

CHAPTEE XXn.

THE GOLDEN APPLE.

Unbidden guests
Are often welcomes when they are gone.  Ilewy VI.

The Abominable, that uninvited came

Into the fair Persian banquet-hall,

And cast the golden fruit upon the board

And bred this change ; that I might speak my mind

And tell her to her face how much I hate

Her presence.  Oenone.

Six months had passed away and the Dales
were at home again after another long
tour on the Continent. Godfrey Daylesford
had enjoyed it much more than his wife had
done, for he had been born and bred abroad
and was more at home there than in England.

Zeph, who was not sufficiently well educated
to take much pleasure in seeing far-famed places,
and so imperfectly acquainted with foreign
languages that she scarcely ventured to open

her lips, especially in her husband's presence,
would gladly have returned to her own
country before winter. To her London was
everything. She had always been aware of
the joys it held in its keeping for those who
were properly equipped to enter into them, and
now she, thanks to her own youth and beauty,
and to Daylesford's position, was, as she fondly
hoped, so equipped, and she ardently longed
for a full measure of them. It was April when
she and her husband reached England once
more. They had travelled quickly at the last,
and Zeph was so tired that it had seemed
desirable to stay the night at Dover, but her
impatience to get to her journey's end was so
great that they left by an early train next
morning.

Oh, I am glad we are back ! ' said she,
turning from the bright landscape she had
been enjoying from the railway-carriage windows
to her husband. ' How lovely everything
looks ! ' He smiled affectionately ; it
was so natural that after being so long a wayfarer

she should pine to be at rest in her own
home ; but England had never yet been a
home to him.

Here we are ! ' said he, two hours later,
and Zeph with some emotion looked at the
house which she was now going to enter as
mistress, and remembered that evening more
than a year ago when she and Jack had been
so amazed with the splendour they had seen by
stolen glances from the outside. She was so
engrossed by the thought of this, that she did
not observe that Daylesford was waiting to
help her out of the carriage.

'Come, dear,' said he, taking her hand;
won't you come . '

She walked into the house with conscious
pride.

Welcome home, my darling,' said he.

She put her hand in his and felt that he
was very kind and good to her. He looked
round, but saw no familiar face, for there was
an entirely new staff of servants ; he had
thought it better that his old life and his new

should be kept altogether apart. The other
servants had known Hester, and some of them
had shown a regard and pity for her far above
the wont of their kind ; but they were gone,
and she was gone, and he was now walking
across the hall with a new love who was his
wedded wife. And yet, though he was passionately
attached to Zeph, and felt her soft
little hand lying in his, he could not repress a
host of memories, and at every turn he seemed
to see a ghostly image of poor ill-treated, forsaken
Hester. He sighed heavily and felt the
trouble of this gathering about him, but he
made a violent effort and turned to look at
Zeph. She was gazing around on every side,
and all seemed very magnificent to her. They
went into the breakfast-room which looked
into a large garden, and then they were left
alone.

Godfrey,' she said very gently, ' I feel
such a poor humble little creature now that
you have brought me here. I don't think I
am good enough for you.' She had not expected

to feel this, and was surprised to find
herself doing so.

My daring,' said he, kissing her, ' you
are a thousand tunes too good for me ! '

Zeph was easily persuaded that this was
the case, and then he began to wonder what
they had better do to spend the time till
luncheon was ready, which it would not befor
half an hour. Zeph was guided to her own
room, where she took off her outdoor apparel,
and then looked curiously at some closed doors
near. She was longing to see the house, but
she thought that the proposal to go over it
ought to come from him, and it was one that
he was never likely to make, for he did not
think there was anything worth showing. She
returned to the breakfast-room, and somewhat
discontentedly strolled to one of the windows
and looked out to see if there was a pretty
view from it, and then she sank into a chair
and was soon half-buried in thought, half-occupied
in gazing at all she saw from the
open window. The day was fine, but vexed

by a never-ending contention between sun and
wind. The sun set its mark on the glistening
upturned leaves of evergreens which had borne
the burden and cold of the winter; the wind
dashed the leaves about until they almost
dazzled her as they flashed backwards and
forwards. The flower-beds were filled with
daffodils which tossed their heads in the breeze,
but did not remind her of Words worth's poem,
for she had never happened to read it ; but
there was an exquisite almond tree, and the
tender pink petals rained down, and the sweet
scent of the rosy blossoms filled her soul with
delight. She was by the open window; he
was standing by the fire, for he had found a
table on which a large heap of letters was
lying, and from these he was culling one or
two which seemed to promise to be interesting.
What quantities of letters there were, and what
piles of prospectuses of new companies ! How
easy it seemed to secure ten or twenty percent.,
and vhat foolish self-restraint not to
accept the offer of it! Daylesford rarely

opened one of these, but he gradually became
more interested in examining his letters, and
the noise he made in converting some of them
into roughly executed balls which he flung
angrily into the grate roused Zeph from her
dreamy state of wonder at the strangeness of
having exchanged Lome Gardens for Ambassadors'
Gate, and fear lest by any chance this
new Hfe which lay before her looking so full of
promise might after all fail to fulfil her expectations.


My dear Godfrey,' she exclaimed, ' what
a noise you are making with those papers ! I
wish I had as many letters as you have

Letters, dear? Bills, some of them paid
long ago ; begging letters, circulars, all kinds
of things one never reads more than a word of.
You need not wish for such letters as these.
Besides, you have a little pile of your own
there on the mantelpiece. Why don't you
open them . '

'What an unfeeling husband you are not
to have told me that before ! Do you suppose

that I should have sat all this time looking out
of the window, if I had known that there were
any letters for me ? ' And she took possession
of a tolerably large packet, which when the
circulars and invitations to inspect milliners'
show-rooms and other useless communications
of the like kind were weeded forth, still yielded
a few letters. She gazed at the address with
pleasure, though Godfrey always told her she
had no legal right to be called the Honourable
Mrs. Daylesford. One letter was from Polly,
from Seaton Court, where she was paying a
visit to Miss Everilda which had already lasted
six weeks. Zeph could not but remember that
Alnminster was within a drive of Seaton Court.
But Polly was not the kind of girl to mention
John Simonds  Zeph had no fear of that.
Polly had nerved herself to make that one last
appeal just before the marriage, and having
failed then, would now for ever hold her peace.
She was well and happy. Miss Everilda was
very kind to her. There was little enough in
Polly's letter beyond a welcome home, but

Zeph thought that she detected a certain restraint
in her style which betokened much
suppression. ' She is seeing a good deal of
John, I suppose,' thought Zeph, ' and she has
difficulty in avoiding all mention of him.' She
put the letter down with a certain dissatisfaction.
Polly's style chilled her.

There was nothing to chill her in the next
letter which she opened. It was from Mrs.
Scatcherd. That lady, now as ever, seemed
determined to take for granted that she was
Zeph's dearest friend  the artificer of her high
fortune, the buttress of her life. ' I have
heard with the greatest joy from the dear old
people at the Castle ; ' Zeph gasped  how
dared she speak thus of her father and mother ?
' that you are coming home on April 3. Of
course I shall come to you, my dearest, as soon
as possible. If you feel as I do, every hour
will seem a week until we meet. I don't think
I can wait until you write to invite me. I will
hurry up to town to see you on the 4th. I
should like to go on the 3rd, but must give you

VOL. II. R

time to recover the fatigue of your journey.
This will enable me to bring you the last news
of your dear father and mother. Mrs. Tree
says that she is going to write to you
herself by this post, but I imagine that she is
almost certain to find something come in her
way at the last, so it is a good thing I have
decided to come, for I shall be able to supply
you with the last news of them. Do not
imagine that it is inconvenient to me to leave
home ; of course I would do it even if it were,
but the doctor says he will spare me for a week
or so. I think you will want me at least a
week, and shall therefore come prepared. I am
more than glad to accept his kind offer to spare
me, for the boys are having their Easter
holidays, and you can guess what that means.
As he has no teaching just now, he must
struggle with them as best he can in the absence
of his assistant, who is away too, and I cannot
help thinking that this, though disagreeable,
will be such a complete change of work that it
will do him good. I hope and trust some of it

will be physical, for if ever two boys stood m
need of a good caning the two Lawrence do,
and your friend Jemmy Benson is about as bad.
I shall be perfectly delighted to see you again,
dear, and I hope and trust you will be equally
pleased to see me.'

My dear Godfrey ! ' exclaimed Zeph, putting
this letter in his hand, ' Mrs. Scatcherd
says she is coming to stay with us, and that she
will be here tomorrow.'

Zeph scarcely knew whether she wanted to
see her or not, but her husband had no doubt
on the subject. ' Did you ever ask her to
come ? ' he inquired.

I, Godfrey, when I had only just been
invited to stay in the house myself? ' she
replied.

Then she is a most impudent woman !
We won't have her here. She wants to get
away from the boys and to buy her spring
dresses, but you don't wish to see her for so
long, Zeph. You can't ; it's impossible ! '

I don't want to see her for a whole week.

E -1

and when we have just come home too. She
is kind, but she forces her friendship too much
on us. But she is coming  we cannot stop
her.'

Oh yes, we can. Write and say that we
shall see her in her own home, that we are
going to Berkhampstead tomorrow to see your
father and mother. I'll telegraph  that will
be better.'

But are we really going . '

Yes.'

Zeph was half regretful. She dearly loved
her father and mother, but she wanted to stay
at home. She had not spent twenty-four hours
in the same place for nearly three weeks.

I wish I could see Agnes,' said she ; ' she
and Jack are at home. If the Scatcherd boys
are having their holidays. Jack is having holidays
too. I wonder they don't come to see
us.'

Daylesford rang the bell. ' Send the carriage
to 5 Lome Gardens, De Manvers Town,
for Miss Agnes Treherne and her brother. Say

that your mistress lias come home and wants to
see her.'

I'll send a line,' said Zeph, though in her
heart she rather admired this regal way of
doing things. ' Our change of plan has put
her out ; no doubt she came last evening.'

She did, ma'am,' said the man, ' and a
young gentleman came with her.'

Zeph scribbled her note and then opened
a bulky epistle from Miss Everilda, but on
further inspection she found that a great part
of it was a poem.

Hail, beauteous bride of seven sweet moons,'
read Zeph.

Is there nothing about the bridegroom ? '
asked Daylesford. ' How bridegrooms do get
left out ! '

It's all about the bride,' said Zeph, ' and I
almost think I shall read it some other time.'
Daylesford laughed. ' There is a letter from
her, I will read that,' said she.

It will be just as high-flown,' he remarked.

It was. ' Sweet child,' wrote Miss Everilda,

when your eyes fall on this you will be in
your husband's ancestral home.'

We have a seven, fourteen, and twenty-one
years' lease,' said Daylesford, 'and nearly
eighteen months of it are gone ! Go on.'

You are basking in the purple splendour of
his star-like love.'

Let us have that again. You might alter
the arrangement of those words just as you
pleased without making any difference to their
want of sense. I don't think I ever '

Mrs. Scatcherd,' said the footman, suddenly
opening the door to allow that lady to
enter. She came precipitately forward, threw
her arms round Zeph and embraced her tenderly.
Then she put her half a yard away from
her to feast her eyes on the sight of Zeph's beloved
face, and then fell to kissing her again,
doing it deliberately and pecking at favourite
spots on her cheeks just as a bird pecks at the
rosiest and ripest part of a cherry. Daylesford
meanwhile stood watching this ceremony with
every mark of impatience, to the great discomfiture

of Zeph, who occasionally saw his face
over Mrs. Scatcherd's shoulder.

At last Zeph succeeded in breaking away
from this effusive greeting. ' I have this moment
read your letter,' said she. ' We thought
that tomorrow was the day on which you
proposed to come to town.'

No, not tomorrow ; to-day, the day after
your arrival. I should have liked to have been
here to welcome you, but I know husbands like
to be alone on such occasions to show their
wives their new home, and all that kind of
thing.'

We have only been in the house about
three quarters of an hour,' said Daylesford, very
coldly.

We slept at Dover ; I was so tired,' added
Zeph, almost apologetically, ' and I have not
seen the house yet.'

Then do let us go and explore it together,
said ]airs. Scatcherd, nothing daunted. ' I daresay
Mr. Daylesford will be glad enough to let
us find our way about alone.'

The way Mr. Daylesford was most anxious
that she should find was that which would take
her most quickly to her own home again. He
had never much liked this woman, and latterly,
when he had seen more of her, he had actually,
disliked her. He 'had observed how she forced
her acquaintance on Zeph, and intended to put
a stop to this persecution. But how to do it ?
Mrs. Scatcherd was the kind of person who, if
thrown out of a house by the door, would reenter
it by the window. No doubt in the end
she would have to be got rid of as such persons
often are. Daylesford would be compelled to
exert all his influence to secure good preferment
for her husband.

Do let us go and explore the house if you
have not seen it ; but I thought you had 
I thought you came here before you went
abroad,' said Mrs. Scatcherd.

No ; we did intend to do so, but we went
abroad at once.'

We must not go over it yet,' said Zeph.

My youngest sister is coming directly ; let as
wait for her.'

But there are so many things I want to
say to you alone,' pleaded Mrs. Scatcherd.
However, as I am going to spend a week here
I shall have plenty of time to talk. Besides,
here is luncheon.'

'I regret to say that we are going to
Berkhampstead tomorrow,' observed Dales
; ' my wife naturally wants to see her father
and mother.'

Mrs. Scatcherd looked dismayed. ' Tomorrow
! But that is such a very short time.
Couldn't you put it off a little longer ? ' Zeph
looked at Daylesford.

He shook his head. 'It would be very
heartless not to let them have a look at their
daughter after she has been away so long.'

Oh, they are perfectly happy with their
work among the old papers. You know their
ways well enough by this time to be sure of
that. When once they are in that Library, I

don't suppose they ever remember that they
have a daughter.'

That same thought had often occurred to
Paylesford, but now he wanted to make use of
their parental feelings to escape from a visit
that was wholly unwelcome to him.

'They really don't care to have any one
with them,' continued Mrs. Scatcherd, eagerly,
I made my way into the library where they
were at work once or twice, just to see if I
could cheer them a little, and I am almost certain
that they wished me away.'

If Mrs. Scatcherd could entertain any doubt
about Mr. Treherne wishing her away when
she had the hardihood to invade his very
sanctum, of what avail would any resistance be
to her intended visit to Ambassadors' Gate ?
Daylesford was silently considering how best to
meet this difficulty. She turned to Zeph and
said, ' Go to Berkhampstead next week. Let
us drive there together. I have often thought
I should like to drive home from London for
once. It must be very pleasant ; do let us doit

tins time. I have not taken a return
ticket.'

Oh no,' said Daylesfcrd, imperatively ; ' we
must go tomorrow. We shall be happy to
give you a bed for to-night.'

This was not what Mrs. Scatcherd intended,
but the arrival of Agnes and Jack put an end
to the discussion for a while. After luncheon
Mrs. Scatcherd insisted on going over the house
with Zeph and Agnes. Jack professed to
follow them, but was soon absorbed by a book
in the library.

Dining-room, breakfast-room, library, and
billiard-room, downstairs,' enumerated Mrs.
Scatcherd. ' It's an awfully large house for
London. Do you know the rent . '

Oh no,' said Zeph, who was almost shocked
at the question.

What a quantity of books there are in the
library,' said Mrs. Scatcherd. ' I often wonder
what people want with books. By the time I
have run through the daily paper and two
society weeklies I know all I care for.'

Upstairs there was a large drawing-roora
and the bedroom Zeph had already seen, and
there was a very pretty sitting-room at the
back communicating with a bedroom and .
The drawing-room met with their
highest approval. It was full of lovely things
of all kinds, but when they saw the suite of
rooms behind, all three ladies exclaimed,
'What charming rooms ! '

So homehke ! ' said Zeph.

So elegant ! ' added Mrs. Scatcherd.

So beautifully furnished ! ' murmured
Agnes. ' There is everything that any one can
possibly want.'

That was true ; there was a piano, there
were books  two lovely white bookcases quite
full of them  and there were water-colour
drawings on the wall which were a delight to
behold. Comfortable chairs and sofas were
placed in inviting corners, and on every table
were the most exquisite flowers all breathing
of the country and of Berkhampstead. Zeph's
heart filled with rapturous delight. She had

never SO much imagined such a perfect room.
She knew that Godfrey had done all that was
needed to make his house pretty to receive her,
and this was the result. The mark of his
generous heart and fine taste was set on all
before her. This was to be her own room ;
here she would sit daily. All was his gift to
her, and it was very good and beautiful. And
those books ; she knew how deficient her
education was, but she would read every one
of them for his sake. ' I shall always sit here,'
she exclaimed enthusiastically. ' I shall never
wish to be anywhere else ! It is the prettiest
room I have ever seen.'

And how nice it is to have the bedroom
opening out of it,' said Mrs. Scatcherd. ' We
have not seen that yet. It's just as pretty as
the sitting-room, and that is all there is on this
floor except the dressing-room.'

These rooms are far prettier than those I
am to have,' said Zeph. ' I like them much
better.'

They are beautiful ! ' exclaimed Agnes, in

great delight. ' Zeph, you have done well to
marry Mr. Daylesford.'

They visited each room in turn.

Those three rooms form the prettiest suite
I have ever seen,' said Mrs. Scatcherd, who
had up to this time been making her observations
in silence. ' They are quite shut off
from the rest of the house, they are charming.
So much taste has been shown in choosing the
furniture.'

It is exquisitely chosen,' said Zeph ; ' look,
Agnes.' But Agnes was not there ; she had
strayed away into the drawing-room, and was
wondering whether fate might perhaps have a
Mr. Daylesford in store for her.

I shall be so grateful to Godfrey,' said
Zeph, warmly ; ' I shall thank him so much. I
ought to do it, and I will.'

Well, my dear, I am not quite sure that if
I were you I would say much about it,' replied
Mrs. Scatcherd, who never could allow anything
to be done without giving her opinion, 'I am
not sure it is advisable.'

'Of course it is advisable said Zeph, impetuously
; ' it would be most ungrateful not.
What can you mean ? '

Well, my dear, I may as well tell you that
I think it is not at all impossible that this pretty
suite may have been furnished for some one else.
A woman's taste has been consulted, I am sure ;
perhaps it was furnished for that  that other
person.'

Zeph, whose heart had a moment before
been all aglow with affectionate thankfulness to
Daylesford for his love and kindness to her,
started back at these words as if she had been
stung. A painful blush mounted to her cheeks,
the very tips of her ears were scorched with its
strength.

Be silent ! ' she exclaimed angrily ; ' how
dare you say this to me ? If you have no sense
of what is due to yourself, I will not allow you
to forget what is due to my husband, and even
to me.'

Why, my dear Mrs. Daylesford ' said

Mrs. Scatcherd, turning to the angry girl with
an air of wonder.

Zeph flung off the hand Mrs. Scatcherd had
dared to lay on her arm, and said, ' Don't speak
to me I I won't listen to a word you say.'

Oh, but you ought not to ' she began

once more. But Zeph covered her ears with
her hands and looked at Mrs. Scatcherd with
eyes which did not fail to express even to such
an insensitive person as she was, some of the
anger her words had aroused.

Oh, I beg your pardon, I am so sorry, I

am indeed ! I had no idea ' she stammered

vaguely.

You can't have one womanly ' began

Zeph, but at this moment Agnes returned, and
both were obliged to be silent.

You may go over the rest of the house
with Mrs. Scatcherd, if you like, Agnes,* said
Zeph ; ' I am not going.'

Mrs. Scatcherd was about to speak, but
Zeph motioned her to the door, and some undefined

feeling constrained the wretched little
creature to obey Zeph's indignant gesture.

Mrs. Scatcherd had great faith in time,
and little knowledge of heart wounds for lack
of material on which to make experiments.
'Give her a little time to be alone,' thought
she, ' and she will forget all about it.' So she
went on her progress through the rooms with
Agnes, who knew Zeph's way so well that she
was certain something was very much amiss,
but could not imagine what it could be. No
sooner were they outside than Zeph shut and
bolted the door against them, and then she
struggled to a seat and burst into passionate
tears. How her fine fabric of happiness had
crumbled away beneath this woman's coarse
touch! Just a minute before Zeph had been
so happy, so grateful, so sure of Godfrey's love
and goodness, and this wretched creature had
come and with one word had destroyed all her
pleasure in life. All her joy in her home was
gone ; all her happiness with Godfrey was over.
It was hateful to be reminded of that wicked

VOL. II. s

woman of other days. Zeph had known about
her before, but somehow or other she had
all but forgotten her existence. Now Mrs.
Scatcherd had made it impossible for her to live
an hour in that house without thinking of its
former occupant. This room which was to have
been her own favourite abiding place was now
a very well-spring of poisoned thoughts. All
she saw had been devised for that other person
everything that was pretty had been bought
for her  here she had lived and moved, and
here memories of her must for ever linger.
Zeph could not control her tears  her cheeks
were blistered by them.

Agnes came to the door and knocked.

Let me in, dear,' she pleaded ; ' I am alone,
and I want so to be with you.'

I cannot. I am resting. I am not ill, but
I am very tired,' said she, doing violence to her
grief and speaking calmly, ' Go away now,
dear, and talk, to Godfrey. Don't tell him that
I say I .am tired. I am coming down very
soon'.

Agnes went, but she did not obey her sister.
She told Daylesford that she was sure Zeph was
either so tired as to be ill, or very much distressed
about something, and he stole away to
comfort her. Zeph was not familiar with the
house and did not know that there was another
way into that suite of rooms besides the door
now under her control.

My darling,' he said, full of concern, ' you
ought to have stayed another day at Dover. I
was sure we ought at the time.'

Zeph recognised in a moment that it washer
duty to bear what she was now suffering
alone. She had known about this when she
married ; how was it that she had not taken
into account all that it might lead to ? Dales
had seated himself en the sofa by her side,
his arm was round her now. She had half
turned away from him ; he was not quite the
same to her as he had been before, but it was
impossible not to feel his kindness.

Forgive me, Godfrey,' said she, ' I ams

2

foolish  strange thoughts have been coming
into my mind.'

Forgive you, dear,' he said, so kindly that
Zeph began to weep again.

'What thoughts, Zeph?' he said. 'Tell
your own husband.'

I cannot,' said she. ' Don't ask.'

Ah, how tired you are ! ' said he. ' Lie
down on the sofa and rest, and perhaps you
may sleep.' He could not believe that she was
really suffering from anything but fatigue, and
brought some rugs and covered her warmly,
and then he stooped and kissed her. ' I am
going to leave you alone,' said he. ' It is the
truest kindness.'

Yes,' she replied, for she longed for solitude.


Is there anything I can do for you ? ' he
asked, still unwilling to leave her.

Send Mrs. Scatcherd away ! ' she said.

He almost wondered at her vehemence, but
he went downstairs to try to do it. How little
did he know the lady he had to deal with ! She

was m the drawing-room, and when he entered
she said, 'I have been thinking a Httle about
plans, Mr. Daylesford ; you say that you are
both going to the Castle tomorrow ? '

Yes,' he said doubtfully, fearing an unforeseen
trap.

Then, as I came prepared to stay a week,
and have my husband's leave to do so, and so
seldom go away, couldn't I just stay on here
and do all the little things I want to do, even
if you do go to Berkhampstead . '

He was half inclined to smile, for this was
such a very odd arrangement for a person to
make who had, according to her own statement,
come to London solely because she could not
be absent from Zeph. Now she was ready tolet
Zeph go to Berkhampstead, and herself stay
behind.

'Yes, of course you can,' said he, 'if you
like to do it.'

This last clause was added solely for his
own amusement. She took no notice of it.
She had gained her point, and contented herself

with saying 'Thank you.' Zeph said thank
you, too, when her husband told her about it
just before dinner. She rose from her sofa
wearily. She must go downstairs and appear
to be on good terms with Mrs. Scatcherd ;
Godfrey must never know what had occurred.

THE FLUSH OF THE ALMOND BLOOM.

Fool, saide my muse to me, look in thy heart and write.'

Sir p. Sidney.

About seven miles from Axminster, on the
great North Eoad, was Seaton Court, and here
Miss Everilda Hved in lonely state. Everyone's
life is said to consist of a series of compromises,
but hers involved more than fell to
the lot of most people, and she was unfitted by
nature to carry them out successfully. Her
father, Adam Seaton, had been an ordinary
hunting, shooting, hard-riding, hard-living
country squire and magistrate, with a very
kind heart and a rather weak head. He always
followed his inclinations, but fortunately his
inclinations never led him to do much harm to
any one but himself. He was what the people

264 / THAT OTHER PERSON

around him called ' a fine, free-spoken, openhanded
gentleman, who would not let a body
come to grief for want of a pound or two to set
him up on his legs again.' Many a pound he
gave away, and all day long there was a
constant stream of people coming to the back
door to say that the squire had sent them to get
a bit of dinner, or a glass of ale, or a basketful
of garden stuff. Miss Everilda loved her father
dearly, though no day ever passed without his
inflicting a deadly wound on her tender susceptibilities.
Tobacco-smoke and the smell of
whisky and water were not an atmosphere for
the delicate plant of poetry to thrive in, and yet
that atmosphere hung about Seat on Court all
day long. The house too was overrun with great
rough dogs which often all but knocked her
down, so indiscriminating was their attachment.
Mrs. Seaton was a quietly kind woman who set
herself to help the poor in a very different way.
She admired her husband's pity for them, but
did not approve of the form it took. She often
told him that none of his dependents would

ever do any good so long as they knew that
they had only to come to him and at once find
themselves lifted out of all their difficulties by
his liberality. She tried to make them help
themselves  she set on foot clothing-clubs and
schools and things of that kind, but the triumph
of her life was the establishment of a savings
bank of which she was sole manager and clerk.
The cottagers entrusted her with their little
savings and she promised them a clear five percent,
interest; and so great was her business
ability, that she was able to keep her word
without loss to herself, and so profound their
confidence in her that this undertaking grew
larger and larger, until the fame of it spread
over all the country side, so that when the good
lady died a year or two after her husband, it
was comparatively speaking quite a large concern.
And now came a great difficulty for
Miss Everilda. She had tenderly loved both
parents, and would not for any consideration
allow her mother's good work to perish because
of her own neglect, and yet she had neither her

mother's love of it nor lier talent for management.
Miss Everilda, who would have liked to
inhabit an ideal world in which every one would
roam over sunny plains or sit in shady gardens
or groves, clad in flowing white garments composed
of the simplest materials  say for instance
a large fine white linen sheet arranged with the
soul-sufficing grace and perfection of the drapery
of a beautiful Greek statue  suddenly found
herself obliged to descend to details of the most
sordid nature, respecting calicoes which men
called unbleached, and woollen fabrics of a
coarseness altogether beyond the range of her
experience. She had to fill her mind with
knowledge of subjects for which she had no
liking  she had to carry on the work of a
savings bank and give five per cent, interest
on all deposits when she was almost incapable
of doing a sum in simple addition. She strained
every nerve to do these things well because she
respected her mother's memory too much to
abandon her undertakings, but it is needless to
say that she managed everything so ill that it

cost her a hundred times more trouble than it
had cost Mrs. Seaton, and as she had no fixed
hours for doing work of this kind, she never
had five minutes she could call her own. She
scraped through her difficulties somehow, but
she could not have done so if she had been a
poor woman.

Her filial piety was not shown to her mother
alone. All the dogs which had been such a
nuisance to her in the days of their youth and
beauty were still allowed to feel themselves at
home in the sitting-rooms at Seaton Court, even
though they were beginning to be blear-eyed
and unsightly with age. ' My father would
have liked it,' said Miss Everilda, and that was
enough for her. Her young cousin Polly's presence
was a great boon to her. She did not
believe that she could ever let Polly go back to
London again. Polly kept the savings bank
account, Polly could ' do things in fractions,'
though what advantage that might represent to
Everilda Seaton was doubtful, for she was not
the person to make any payment in fractions.

Polly could teach in the school, could send back
a woman's banking-book without sending her a
long poem by mistake, and altogether was a
most useful person to her cousin. Then Polly-drew
her forth from her ' study,' and led her
away into the green fields and pleasant lanes,
or they drove into Alnminster to hear the
glorious cathedral service, and thus the wholesome
element of change was introduced into her
life.

And to think of my having lived so many
years without knowing you, my dear,' said Miss
Everilda one morning. ' I might have had you
here years ago if I had but known you would
come. Your poor dear mother offended all the
Seatons by the way she neglected them after
her marriage. It was just as if she had shaken
them off and never wished to see any of them
again.'

She is such a good wife to father. She
sacrifices everything and every one to him.'

Yes, it is beautiful  most beautiful ! ' repeated
Miss Everilda, meditatively, ' but if all

marriages were like hers, people would think
more than twice before they gave up their freedom.
I should not like any of you dear girls
to marry and have to live in that way.'

'We should not like it either,' exclaimed
Polly. ' None of us could do it.'

I suppose not. At all events Zeph has
married very differently.'

Indeed she has. Zeph would never have
been happy with a poor man.'

Miss Everilda sighed and said, ' If she had
been very much in love with any poor man,
she would have married him.'

'Mr. John Simonds,' said a servant, appearing
most unexpectedly, and John Simonds
followed him into the room. He had got into
the way of walking over from Alnminster
sometimes on his half-holidays to see the two
ladies, and his visits were a pleasure to both of
them. Sometimes he stayed for dinner, and
Miss Everilda sent him home in her carriage.
Polly was so startled by his appearance just asher
cousin was saying something which had

such a personal application to himself, that she
could not help blushing, but no one saw her
blush but Miss Everilda, who instantly suspected
a love affair, and invoked a benediction
on their young affection. Scarcely had she exchanged
greetings with the newcomer before
she saw in her mind's eye a sheet of fair white
paper, with the first lines of a poem, in which
she likened young love to the tender flush of
the almond bloom. What was to rhyme to
bloom ? Tomb was not the right word, and
yet it would keep thrusting itself forward.
She liked ' flush of the almond bloom ' and was
resolved to find a good rhyme to it. Boom,
loom. Time's loom and the web of their sweet
fortunes might be worked in, but she must first
see if she could not get something better.
Gloom, doom. All the words seemed very
ominous and unpropitious. She was proceeding
to further researches when she suddenly
found that while her mind had been given to
this, Mr. Simonds had been talking to her, and
that' Polly had answered one speech for her

and was now answering another. Then she
heard her ask a question, to which the neglected
guest replied : 

No, I am afraid that there is no chance of
a reprieve, and I don't think he will try to save
himself by accusing the two others.'

The Assizes were going on in Alnminster,
and there was a very heavy calendar. During
the last two days a murder case had occupied
much attention. There was not much evidence,
for the crime had been committed in a lonely
house in the country. The accused had
solemnly protested his innocence. The facts
of the case had however been very much
against him, fatally so indeed, unless he could
bring home the guilt to some other person ;
this he had made no endeavour to do, and he
had been condemned to death. Public feeling
was much stirred, for a very large section
believed that he could have done this with
complete success, but had refrained, for the
persons whom he would have had to accuse were
his own wife and her brother. The prisoner

bore a good character ; the wife's character
seemed to be less good, and her brother's was
so bad that he could get no work at home and
was about to emigrate. The brother and sister
had avowedly been on the spot a great part
of the time, and had even taken part in the
beginning of the struggle with much enjoyment,
but they said that they had retired from it at
a certain point, and they left it to be inferred
that the prisoner had not done so until he had
committed the crime. The evidence of a
passer-by had seemed to corroborate this, and
yet a very considerable portion of the public
refused to believe it, and regarded the woman
and her brother as the true criminals. Their
manner, and much that they said in evidence,
had seemed to favour this belief, nevertheless
the accused had been condemned. Would he
speak, or would he take upon himself the guilt
of others and die in silence ?

Whatever he does, it is dreadful ! ' said
Polly, shuddering.

Still the person who committed the murder

is the one who ou<ht to die,' said Miss Everilda,
with a very unusual appreciation of the logical
bearings of the question.

It is so terrible to take the life of any one,'
said Polly. ' What a state he must be in, and
the judge and the barristers must be miserable
too.'

Possibly they may be, but they have no
time to indulge in feelings of that kind. They
are in the court all day, and dine out every
evening. Alnminster may not be a hospitable
place, but it never fails to entertain the judges
and barristers magnificently. People must
dine, but I do wish they would not have balls
on these occasions,' remarked Mr. Simonds.

Ah ! you are thinking of the Sheriff's ball
in the beginning of next week ? ' said Miss
Everilda.

Yes, and it is to be held in the Town Hall
this time, and that wretched man in the condemned
cell will be almost within hearing of
the carriages and music'

Not really ? ' asked Miss Everilda, with a

VOL. II. T

shudder, and then she looked distressfully at
Polly. Polly had been straining every nerve
to get a really pretty fancy dress to wear at
that ball, which was one given by the High
Sheriff to the town and county. ' It does seem
unfeeling to dance at such a time ! ' said the
elder lady, thoughtfully. ' I don't wonder that
you disapprove of it, Mr. Simonds.'

Oh, I don't want to express such a very
strong opinion as that,' he answered. ' A gay
ball-room is a terribly strong contrast to the
interior of a condemned cell, and the two things
will lie near together, that's all.'

That is a great deal,' said Miss Everilda ;
the contrast is awful. And yet, think what
you will of us, Mr. Simonds, my dear little
cousin and I were intending to go ; but I am
not sure that we can do it now that you have
made us realise what it would be.'

Polly sighed. She had so wished to go.
She had never been to a costume-ball, never
been to a good ball of any kind, and as Zeph
had promised to send her a pretty dress from

the Castle, it seemed as easy to go as delightful.
Was she about to be deprived of this great
pleasure ? She was very sorry about that poor
man in the prison, but a ball is always a ball.
She looked at Miss Everilda. Miss Everilda
was evidently thinking. At last she said,
Mary, my love, I don't believe I can go.'

John watched Polly's anxious face, and
wished he had held his tongue. What was he
that he should prescribe to others what they
should feel ? He wished he had not been so
stupid. ' I entreat you not to let anything that
I have said make you change your mind,' said
he, in great dismay. ' I would not for the
world be the means of losing Miss Polly this
pleasure. Why should she not dance ? I
spoke without much thought ; after all, this man
had no objection to go a great part of the way
in the direction of murder, he admitted that he
had a struggle with the unfortunate victim, and
perhaps he actually was the murderer ; the
world cannot stand still because a murderer
meets with his deserts.'

T 2

'Mr. Simmonds, you are not saying quite
what you think. If we do take a wretched
criminal's Hfe we should do it in sadness and
sorrow, his crime points to some fault in us or
our ancestors. Besides, if I did go I should be
haunted by the thought of that cell. Dancing
would seem miserably out of place. You agree
with me, Mary, don't you, dear ? '

Polly looked very grave. A great joy
was surely slipping away from her, and she
knew it.

I cannot say I do not wish to go to the
ball, cousin,' she replied, ' I am afraid I do ;
but I will give it up cheerfully if you wish it.'
And Polly looked anxiously in Miss Everilda's
face, waiting for her fate.

I do, dear. I am not the kind of person
who could go to a ball with any pleasure under
such circumstances, and I '

If you please, ma'am, Jonathan Graham
is at the door, and he says that generally about
this time you do a little for him,' said a servant
who had come in almost unheard.

What does lie want doing for him,
Robert ? ' asked Miss Everilda.

Please, ma'am, he will leave it to you, I
think,' said Eobert.

'Then take him five shillings,' said Miss
Everilda ; ' that's what my dear father always
used to give him. Is that not the best thing
I can do, Mr. Simonds ? '

John took a bold resolution.

If you ask me,' said he, ' I really think it
would be better to see him and learn what it
will be best to do for him. It is seldom good
to give money.'

Isn't it ? And I do seem to give so
much.'

He was very anxious to have a word or two
with Polly, and wanted Miss Everilda to leave
them alone awhile. Miss Everilda slowly left
the room, taking the precaution to have five
shillings ready in her pocket, for she knew
that it would end in her having to give it, however
prudently she might resolve to act.

My dear Polly,' said John Simonds, hastily.

will you ever forgive me for what I have
done ? I am so sorry. I had not the least
idea that Miss Everilda would take any of my
words to heart and act on them so promptly.'

It is disappointing,' said Polly, making no
effort to hide her feelings. ' Perhaps I ought
not to wish to go. There is a great deal of
truth in what you said.'

I ought to have been wise enough to hold
my tongue.'

No, not if you felt strongly on the point.'

I did  I do ; but I cannot bear to think
that I have lost you a pleasure. But have you
really lost it? I will speak to Miss Everilda.'

You had better not. Besides, after what
you have said, perhaps I should feel that I was
doing something wrong.'

Oh, no. I must speak to her  I will.'

But don't urge it if she seems to have
made up her mind to stay away. I should not
like you to do that, for she feels strongly when
she does take up an idea.'

But you  ' said he, inquiringly.

I ? Oh, I am not to be pitied. You don't
know how kind she is to me.'

Miss Everilda soon returned.

I have had to give him ten shillings, poor
fellow,' she exclaimed cheerily. 'He did not
seem to think he could make five do this time.'

Then there was a short silence. John was
wondering how best to prefer his request, and
Polly waiting to hear it, but not in hope, for
she knew that Miss Everilda would not go to
the ball when once her feelings had been
enlisted in favour of an opposite course. John
was very much pleased with the way in which
Polly had behaved. It was so entirely honest.
She made no pretence of professing fine feelings
if they were absent from her mind. She
frankly said she should very much like to go,
but was prepared to submit quietly if Miss
Everilda persisted in staying away. He made
an attempt to undo what he had done, but all
in vain. A matter of sentiment was with Miss
Everilda a matter of principle, and she could
not be moved.

'After Mary's disappointment, my only
regret is that I shall not see that dress,' she
said, for she knew nothing of John's attachment
to her other cousin. ' I should have liked to
see her wear it. You don't know about that
dress, Mr. Simonds, but I will tell you.'

Oh, don't tell about it now,' said Polly,
anxiously. ' I beg you not.'

Oh yes, I must. Of course you know all
about my eldest cousin ? '

Tell it another time,' pleaded Polly, not
knowing how to spare John the hearing of
what would trouble him so much.

I will tell it now, dear ; why not . Mr.
Simonds, I was going to say that of course you
know all about my niece Josephine's marriage.
She has married a man who is perfectly
delightful, and he is the handsomest man I ever
saw.'

John did not seem to be warmly interested,
but there was no stopping Miss Everilda. She
would tell all about Phillis Arnold, and how
Zeph had worn the very dress that Sir Joshua

had painted her in, and Mr. Daylesford had
fallen in love with her there and then, and she
had promised to lend her sister that self-same
dress for the High Sheriff's ball.

John listened calmly. Polly looked at him
from time to time and marvelled at it. Then
he said, ' Miss Everilda, such a good idea has
come into my head.'

For a poem ? ' Miss Everilda asked
eagerly.

Oh no, for a ball. You have beautiful
rooms, do give one here  a fancy-dress ball,
and let me come and see Miss Polly in the
dress you have just told me about.'

Polly drew a long breath of joy. Joy
because of the chance of this ball, and also
because John seemed able to hear about Zeph
without so much anguish as of old. He had
indeed shown no sign of anguish at all, and he
was even willing to see that dress.

I'll think about it,' said Miss Everilda ;
and then Polly knew that the thing was done.

You had better write by this post to tell

Zeph you don't want her to send the dress yet,'
said Miss Everilda. ' Even if I did give a ball
here, we had better not have it sent till just
before the time when it is wanted. It is a very
handsome dress, trimmed with valuable pearls,
and it is always kept at Berkhampstead Castle,'
she added, turning to John to explain her
anxiety.

Polly did so wish her cousin would leave
Zeph, and the Daylesford jewels, and Berk-hampstead
Castle, and all that Zeph had sold
herself for, out of her conversation when John
was present. Secrecy as to love affairs maybe
commendable, but it often causes pain and
embarrassment.

Miss Everilda was never left in peace for
long. Eobert reappeared. ' If you please,
ma'am, Widow Jackson's youngest boy has
come running to say that the old linen has
never got there, and that the doctor was very
particular about the bandage being changed today.
And please, ma'am, he says that the
doctor did go on so last time because it had

not stayed on well, and he said it ought to be a
figure-freight bandage.'

Miss Everilda put her hands to her ears and
said impatiently, ' These people are the plague
of my life ! What is a figure-freight bandage ?
It is no use coming to me, Eobert, about such
things as that. I never did understand figures,
and I never shall.'

I'll go to the Jacksons', cousin ; it is nota
mile off. Let me go and see what they mean,
and then I can try to do it, and I can take the
old linen at the same time,' said Polly.

Oh, will you really ? ' ejaculated Miss
Everilda, much relieved ' I shall be so much
obliged to you, dear. I'll tell you what I
will do, daring ; if you will do this for me I'll
write to Zeph about the dress for you, and then
I will take a large sheet of paper and make a
list of all the nice people I know. I will not
have any who are not nice. And then we will
write and ask them to our ball.'

And I will walk to the Jacksons' with
you, Polly, if you will allow me ? ' said John.

Thank you,' she replied ; and they went.

And now I hope you will forgive me,'
said he. 'Your cousin will give a delightful
ball, and when we go back we will both set to
work to write the invitations from her hist.'

My dear John,' exclaimed Polly, ' how
little you know my cousin. When we go back
she will have made no list. Do you think if
she has a large sheet of blank paper spread
before her, she will write anything on it but a
poem ? '

CHAPTEE XXIV.

PARIS Borne.

Mess. But yet, madam.

Leo. I do not like but yet, it does alloy

The good precedence, fie upon but yet.  Antony and Cleopatra.

Fair and of all beloved, I was not fearful

Bluntly to give my life into your hand,

And at one hazard all my earthly means.  Heywood.

May, June, and a large part of July had come
and gone, and Zeph was gradually becoming
part of the great world. The men whom her
husband had always known brought their
mothers, wives, and sisters to call on their
friend's wife  he had ' ranged ' himself, and.
the past was buried deep and well. At one
time Zeph had told herself that she should
never be happy in that house now that she had
been brought face to face with its former
history ; and for days and even weeks she had

gone about looking outwardly calm and contented,
but with a heart full of scornful bitterness.
Latterly she had attained to a quiet
feeling of resignation  such wicked things were
Godfrey was no worse than many others;
he loved her truly now, and was not likely to
change. He was very good and kind, and had
shared all he had with her. She knew that
she did not love him as he loved her  that she
had always known ; but she felt very grateful
and affectionate to him, and believed that, as
time passed by, this feeling would, if anything,
strengthen. Meantime the life she lived was
entirely to her taste. It was a life of gay and
pleasant luncheons and dinners, balls, theatres,
and concerts. She need never spend an evening
at home unless she wished. Her husband
made her a liberal allowance, and she knew
that if she exceeded it he would not complain.
She indulged therefore freely in her taste for
pretty dresses, and was admired wherever she
went. Sometimes she said, ' Is not this a sweet
dress, Godfrey ? '

Ah, my darling,' he replied, ' it is pretty ;
but you looked just as charming in the simple
little dresses you wore when I first knew you.'
Oh, they were terrible ! ' said she, feeling
a pang at the very recollection of them.
What a dreadful time that was ! I never had
anything I wanted.'

Say that you are happier with me,' pleaded
Daylesford. She was not demonstrative enough
for him, and he often longed to hear some
spontaneous expression of affection from her.

Happy ! Of course I am happy,' she
answered on one of these occasions ; ' I am
leading just the life I like best.'

But would you be happy with me if we
were poor and living in a little cottage in the
country ? I should be happy anywhere ; but
would you ? '

Oh, don't talk about things that are never
likely to happen,' she answered evasively. ' I
am afraid I should want some dancing even
in the country, and what should I do when I
wanted a new dress ? '

Daylesford was so honest and straightforward,
and so in love with her, that though he
would have liked a loving declaration that she
could be happy anywhere so long as he was
with her, he never doubted her affection.
You would have to rely on my ingenuity to
help you,' said he ; ' I once did find a dress for
you

You did ; and by the way, Godfrey dear,
I have promised it to Polly. She is to stay a
fortnight longer at Seaton Court with my cousin
Everilda, to go to a costume-ball at Alnminster.
The High Sheriff is going to give it to the
judges, or the judges are going to give it in
honour of the High Sheriff, I forget which way
it is, but it is no matter, only poor Polly had
not an idea what to wear till I said she might
have that old dress I wore  the loan of it, I
mean.'

Daylesford looked perplexed. ' I wish
said he, and stopped.

You wish what, dear ? Let me hear what
it is.'

'I wish you had not said that your sister
might have that dress  I don't think she can
have it. It is not mine. It is part and parcel
of the heirlooms at Berkhampstead, and it
cannot be worn to look well without the lace
and jewels belonging to it. Those things are
all Marmaduke's, and though I did not mind
your wearing them when you were staying in
the house, I cannot consent to bring them away
and send them to Alnminster. It would seem
as if I looked on them as my own ; if you were
joiner to wear them it would be different.'

Let it be different as it is. You can easily
give the order to Mrs. Sanderson to let us have
them as you did before.'

Of course I can ; but do forgive me if I say
I don't like to do it.'

I am sure Marmaduke would not mind.'

I know he would not, but I do. The
circumstances of the case oblige me to be so
much more particular. Go to your dressmaker
or to a costumier, and order Polly the
prettiest dress you can design  it shall be my

VOL. II. U

present to her. I should like to make her a
present.'

Zeph was dissatisfied. ' It is immensely
kind of you, dear, but when you have a dress
already which is just the very thing, why not
let her wear it and save all trouble and
expense ? '

But I haven't a dress ! ' said Daylesford.
My dear Zeph, it seems a trifle to you to
borrow it, and it is a trifle ; but I do want to
be very scrupulous in all my dealings with
Marmaduke's property.'

I will write and tell him about it,' said
Zeph ; ' and suppose I ask him to give me leave
to use one of the family dresses sometimes if I
want one for a ball ? '

You must do nothing of the kind, Zeph ;
it would only remind him of a thoroughly
disagreeable and painful subject. He would
write back and say that I have more right to
settle what is to be done with everything at
the Castle than he, and that in any case he
will hand over all the dresses and jewels to

you. Dear Zeph, leave things at the Castle
alone. I understand Marmaduke better than
you do. You would pain him terribly.'

I don't want to pain him or you either.'

'Of course you don't. Go and get the
people who understand these things to make
your sister a beautiful dress. I will go with
you, and then I shall see that you order a
handsome one. Stop, I have an idea. Polly
is a good-looking girl ; go to the National
Gallery and choose a dress from one of the
pictures, and then tell your dressmaker to make
one like it. I'd have a Paris Bordone if I were
you.'

But I don't think we should have time for
that. There would be so much writing backwards
and forwards before everything was
settled, that the dress would never reach Polly
in time.'

Don't write backwards and forwards ; go
and see about it yourself.'

Go to Paris ! ' said Zeph, aghast at the
idea.

u 2

My dearest Zeph ' began Daylesford,

in a tone of suppressed amusement, but he was
afraid she would be humiliated if he pointed
out her mistake.

What is it ? ' she inquired ; ' you did say
Paris.'

Yes, Paris Bordone, that's the name of a
painter. Let us go and see if you like that
picture of his I am thinking of as much as I
do. It is a portrait of a Genoese lady in a
magnificent crimson dress. Her hair is just
like Polly's, and I am sure Polly would look
well in her dress.'

'I am very ignorant, I fear,' said Zeph,
humbly.

He began to fear it too. Books such as it
would have been well for her to read had not
formed part of her father's library. Dales
resolved to devote himself to making her
familiar with the subjects which no woman's
mind should be without. That very morning
he would take her to the National Gallery, and
when they passed a bookseller's shop he would

alight and buy her a copy of Browning's
Poems.' Some one had lately asked her in
his hearing if she did not think Browning's
'Men and Women' very fine, and she had
inquu-ed where they were to be seen? Finally
she had been obliged to own that
she had never heard either of the poet or the
poems.

Come,' said Daylesford, ' let us go.'

My dear Godfrey,' she replied, ' I am so
sorry about this. I am giving you such a great
deal of trouble.'

No, I like going to the National Gallery,
and even if I didn't, I should like going with
you.'

He got out and bought her the Poems on
the way, but when he gave them to her she
said, ' You need not have bought those books,
dear ; they are in the house already in one of
the bookcases upstairs.'

He actually blushed. ' I forget what there
is in those bookcases,' said he.

She looked sorrowfully in his face, for she

was afraid she knew why he never stopped to
look at those books.

They chose the picture he had in his mind
the yellow-haired lady with the rich crimson
dress. ' We must send your sister a photograph
of it, and then she will know how she
ought to look,' said Daylesford.

Thank you ; you think of everything,' said
Zeph. ' My dressmaker can make a dress like
that quite easily, and Polly will look very well
in it. Now let us go.'

Go ! ' he repeated ; ' not yet. Wait a
minute or two longer. I don't suppose you
have been often here.' He was shocked with
himself for having said this ; the thought had
passed through his mind, but the words had
escaped him unawares.

It did not seem to strike her as one of
those things which are best left unsaid. She
answered quite calmly, ' I ? Oh, hardly ever.
In fact, I believe, only once.'

But, my darling, you ought to know these
pictures well. Some of them are magnificent.

We have one of the finest galleries in Europe.
It is a delight to see such pictures as these.
You feel that, I am sure, but if you didn't I
should still have to make you study them. It
is absolutely necessary to do so as a part of
education. You can scarcely spend an evening
in the society of people of any cultivation without
being tripped up by your ignorance if you
are not familiar with them.' They walked
slowly round some of the rooms, Daylesford,
who had a genuine love of art, pointing out
picture after picture for her admiration as they
went. She was meantime secretly meditating
on the fact that after all she was by no means
so well equipped for society as she had believed
herself to be. Something more was wanted
than youth, beauty, good means, liveliness of
manner, and fair wits. More than once lately
she had been convicted of gross ignorance on
points on which it was vital to be well informed.
If she had made that lamentable blunder about
Paris Bordone, in society, society would have
mocked her ; it would have been whispered

about as a good joke whenever she was seen or
named, and whithersoever she went she would
have been conscious of a tell-tale twinkle in the
eyes of people around her which would reveal
the fact that they knew and enjoyed a good
story against her. How dreadful ! And then
if she said more things of this kind, Godfrey
would at last be disgraced by having a wife
whom it seemed legitimate to point out as the
maker of all the malaprop and blunders that
float about on the surface of society's small-talk
and constitute so much of its joy. ' Very
beautiful, dear, very finely painted, I should
imagine,' she said with her tongue, but her
mind was entirely given to these thoughts. How
many of these ignorant and laughable speeches
had she already made without being aware of
them ? Perhaps she was already beginning to
be regarded as a person destined to afford
society a liberal share of amusement. Godfrey
had witnessed her want of knowledge when a
great living poet and his works had been
named, and that was why he had bought her

those books. He had just told her that she
would be considered woefully ill-educated if
she did not make herself acquainted with thereat
pictures in this Gallery, and now he was
labouring hard to drive some knowledge of
them into her head. ' It is wonderfully fine,
dear,' she always said when he bade her admire
one, but with so many important things to
think about as she had, she could not give him
her full attention. Did that other person know
all these pictures by heart ? Was she thoroughly
familiar with all that was good in
literature and art ? Was she, perhaps, wicked
though she was, well-educated and intellectual,
and therefore, so far as companionship was concerned,
superior to Zeph herself? Zeph felt
her heartstrings tightening as this thought came
to torment her, but she did not, could not, and
would not believe it.

Where does one get to know all about
these painters?' said she, after a determined
effort to profit by her opportunities and enjoy
his guidance round the rooms. He named some

books, but told her that the pictures themselves
were the things to study  not the lives of the
painters or what men wrote about them and
their work ; that people could find out far more
about a painter's character from his work than
in any amount of books.

Godfrey,' said Zeph once more, ' I never
knew how very little I had learnt or been
taught till I got to know you. Will you make
me learn things and teach me as much as you
can ? It would be a dreadful thing if ever you
were ashamed of me

I am ashamed of you now,' said he, tenderly.
' How can you say such a thing as that
in a public place like this, when you know that
I can't take you to my heart and tell you that
you are my own, and that I shall never have
any feeling for you but true love ? '

Zeph raised her dewy eyes from the floor
and looked comforted and pleased, and she did
not attempt to hurry him away from the pictures,
though she was longing to get to her
dressmaker's. That pleasure was hers in time,

and Daylesford went with her, and between
them they chose a really beautiful dress for
Polly, and then Daylesford was dropped at his
club and Zeph went home. As soon as she
was alone she fell a-thinking of the alarming
discovery she had made of her want of education.
She had never before known that education
was of so much importance. She had
already been mortified to see how much her
husband had felt her deficiency. He always
looked so surprised when she did not seem to
know things. Had he always been acquainted
with women who were thoroughly on a level
with his expectations ? Had that other person
whose name she had never heard, but who now
occupied more of her thoughts than she liked,
been more fitted for society than she herself
was? Such an idea was inconceivably bitter
to Zeph  to know that it was true would cut
her to the heart.

Some fascination of which she could render
no account made her at once go upstairs to
that lovely sitting-room which as yet she had

never been able to use as her own. It seemed
intended for her, but she had never been able
to feel happy in it, and she had remarked that
Tier husband had never once said, ' Why don't
you sometimes sit in that room upstairs ? ' Today
she went to it without pausing for a
moment, and at once began to examine the
books. First she carefully read their titles. If
her knowledge of such matters had not been so
limited, she would have seen that all the
greatest poets of England, France, and Germany
were represented on those shelves, and that
most of the masterpieces of English prose
literature had found a place in the second
white bookcase. Zeph thought that some of
these masterpieces must be very dull if their
titles were to be trusted, but for the present
left that point undetermined. What she next
did was to take out each book, one after the
other, to see if any name  any woman's name.
were written on the blank pages. Her reason
told her that it was impossible that this should
be the case, that Godfrey himself would have

seen to the removal of anything that might give
her pain, but in spite of reason she had a
haunting dread of what she might perchance
discover. Her task was a long one, but no
such name appeared. Once or twice she found
Daylesford's  never any other  and the sense
of relief she experienced was immense. Then
she went to the writing-table and opened all
the drawers. There were a number of them,
but all were empty ; there was not a bit of
ribbon, a scrap of paper, or anything. All were
daintily lined with clean white paper and ready
to receive anything that she herself chose to put
into them. Whatsoever this room had once
held that had belonged to another was to all appearance
gone ; it was now swept and garnished
for herself. Could she bring herself to use
it ? It only required one plunge and the thing
would be done. Why should she not occupy
it ? Why should any sentiment either of regret
or repugnance be allowed to cling for ever
about this one room ? She went into her own
room and brought some embroidery she was

busy with, and spread it out and scattered her
silks about on one of the tables. She cut open
the books Godfrey had just given her, and left
them lying on the sofa : then she went to the
bookcase to seek a book, for she was going to
work in earnest, she was about to try to cultivate
the waste and desolate places of her mind. It
was a gigantic task, and the sooner she took it in
hand the better. She found a French book ;
French had of late often been her despair.
She could read easy conversations, or thought
she could, for the difficulties in French are so
subtle that they usually evade the sight of
ignorant persons, but a bit of description was
to her an impenetrable jungle. She began to
read with a firm purpose of looking out in the
dictionary every word that she did not know ;
Godfrey should not be ashamed of her, she
would not be ashamed of herself. She had
never done any work of this kind, and found
it very irksome, but she performed her task
for nearly an hour with complete fidelity.
Then she began to wish that Godfrey would

return home, or some one amusing come to call.
Why did not Agnes come more frequently, and
she wanted to see Jack? While she was
wondering if she had time to go and see them,
a letter was brought to her. It was from Miss
Everilda. ' I write, my dear Zeph, to ask you
not to send the dress. Mary and I have given
up all idea of attending the High Sheriff's ball.
I am ashamed I ever had such an idea. It is
strange what even high-minded women will do
if they look at things one-widely. We looked
at this on the side of our amusement, but a
dear young friend who often spends some of his

leisure hours with us ' ' Ris leisure,' thought

Zeph with a weight of lead on her heart already,

and hours too ! ' ' has persuaded us not to

go. He wants me to give a fancy-dress ball at
Seaton Court, to make up to your sister for this
disappointment. I am afraid she is disappointed,
though she has taken it so sweetly, dear girl.
1 think I shall adopt his suggestion. I like
doing what he wishes, and besides that I think
I should enjoy seeing this handsome old house

looking once more like itself. Therefore, dear
Zeph, though I ask you not to send the dress
now, please send it a little later, for I should
dearly like to see Mary wear it in my house.
And now I must say good-bye, for they have
gone for a long walk together, and I want to
have my Hst of the people who ought to be invited,
ready for them when they come back. I
believe you knew something of Mr. Simonds
before you were married, at least I think he
told me about an hour ago that he had some
acquaintance with you, but I will ask him again.
Yours ever, Everilda.'

Zeph folded her hands and laid her head
down on the table on them. She had never
thought of this happening. Why should Polly,
who was young, handsome, and free  why
should Polly, who had the whole world before
her to choose from, choose this one man ?
Zeph had sometimes thought it would be an
almost unbearable pain to her if he married
any one, but if he married her own sister it
would be a thousand times worse. And yet he

had a right to marry any one he chose ; the tie
between herself and him was broken. The
worst of it was that she had never quite felt
that it was broken  stupid, irrational, wicked,
mad, let any one call it what they chose  so
honos as he was unmarried he still seemed to
belong to her more than to any one, and she
could sometimes even think of him with a quiet
regard and love in which as she believed there
was no sin. If he married Polly she must
never think of him in that way again ; she
must never see him, of course. She had,
however, never intended to see him again.
She could live as she was living now with
Daylesford in the bonds of quiet affection, and
could go on living with him for ever happily
enough, if John did but keep out of her way.
She did not believe she should ever be able to
meet him unmoved. Even if she never saw
him till she was quite an old woman she feared
that her heart would blaze up with love for the
man whom she had treated so ill. No tear
passed the barrier of her eyelids  tears were

VOL. II. X

impossible ; the heart wound she was suffering
from lay far too deep down for any tears to
rise to her eyes  far too deep for her to visit it
save on very rare occasions. She sat where
she was for more than an hour, and was roused
at last by a kind hand on her shoulder.

Why, Zeph, my darling, what are you
doing P ' Daylesford was the speaker. He
saw the French book and the open dictionary,
but he almost thought his wife had been asleep.
Were you asleep ? Have I disturbed you ? '

Zeph raised her head, which really did look
half stupefied with sleep, and said, ' Asleep, oh
no, I don't think I have been asleep ; I am
sure I have not.'

Of course you have,' said he ; 'you would
not deny it so fervently if you had not. Let
me have a look at you.' He had not seen the
face he loved so much for some hours.

She looked up, but could not meet his eyes :
they were full of such honest, generous, and
true affection, that she shrank away from the
sight of them  she was so utterly unworthy of

it. He was too good himself to suspect any
shortcoming, not to mention disloyalty, in anyone
without absolute proof, much less in her.
He had no conception what thoughts had been
passing through her mind, and only said, ' I
wish I had let you sleep a little longer, dear.'

His kindness touched her to the heart  it
always had done so. Never must she give way
to such thoughts again ; it was foolish, it was
wicked, it was treacherous in the highest degree
to him whom she had vowed to love, and
whom, please God, she would end by loving  if
she did not, it should not be for want of trying.
Not for worlds would she ever let Godfrey suspect
any part of what had been passing through
her mind while she had been alone. ' I have
had a tiring day,' said she. ' To begin with,
we went out, you know, and then after I came
home I did all kinds of things before I sat
down to read some French.'

French ! ' he exclaimed ; he had never
seen her open a French book since they were
married.

Godfrey,' she said, very humbly, ' I am so
anxious to improve myself a little, I can't bear
being so ignorant as I am. I have been trying
to learn a little by myself, but I think you
must let me have some lessons.' 

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-STREET SQUARE

LONDON

 y/;/ ,u 

THAT OTHER PERSON

 towel

BY

MRS ALFRED HUNT

AUTHOR OF 'tHORNICROFT's MODEL ' ' THE LEADEN CASKET* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

|roitb0n

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the right of translation is reserved]

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

- CHAPTER PAGE

,J XXV. ' WHOSE WORDS AEE TOU QUOTING ? ' . . .1

 XXVI. 'but TOU SEEM TO HAVE BEEN ENJOYING A

MYSTERY too!'



XXVII. ' I HAVE A VERY PARTICULAR REASON ' . .50

XXVIII. 'it IS A BAD BUSINESS ' 78

XXIX, THE STUDIO 105

XXX. THE Olive-green CAP 130

XXXI. 'have your way' 156

XXXII. SOMETHING HAS GONE WRONG , . . . 174

XXXIII. A MOST STRANGE LIKENESS 202

XXXIV. 'l WAS NOT WORTHY  SHE WAS ' . . . . 229
XXXV. IT IS A THING ON WHICH I HAVE SET MY HEART 256

XXXVI. GOOD NEWS FOR YOU. DEAR ZEPH . . . . 288

CHAPTEE XXV.

'WHOSE WORDS ARE YOU QUOTING?'

She, like a moon in wane,
Faded before Mm, cowered ; nor could restrain
Her fearful sobs, self-folding like a flower
That sinks into itself at evening hour.  Keats.

After a while it occurred to Zeph that her
husband was dull  that he was bored by the
want of some interest beyond that of the daily
routine of gaiety and the petty amount of business
that falls to the lot of a man who has what
is called nothing to do. But ought he not to
have something to do ? He was almost the
only man she knew who was not living in a
whirl of occupation from which it seemed
almost impossible to rescue five minutes except

VOL. III. B

at stated times. ' Godfrey,' she said one morning,
' I wonder why you don't go into Parliament.
Wouldn't you like to do so ? '

Of course I should. There is nothing I
should like better.'

Then why not do it ? ' inquired Zeph.

Dear Zeph, you surely know why I cannot.
You know how strangely I am situated.
I can only go as a peer, and of course I won't
do that.'

Zeph sighed, and said, ' What a pity ! It
is a life that would suit you exactly ! How
vexing to have to give it up.'

'It is no use thinking about it,' said he.
It cannot be helped.'

I suppose not,' said Zeph ; ' you seem to
be always giving up things ! But you have
many resources ; if you had not, I should pity
you for having to spend so much time with me.
I am a very poor companion for a man like you.'

That, of course, he would not allow her to
say. Then she asked him what he had done in
the mornings before she came.

I used to try to do some water-colour
work,' said lie, with a backward glance of
memory at those happy mornings with Hester.

Then why cannot you do that now ? I
wish I could. I am so fond of water-colours.
I do wish you would let me see some of yours.'

With a curious sense of disinterring a portion
of life that had long been dead and buried,
he brought a folio and put it on a chair before
her. She slowly turned over the sketches,
making much havoc of the pronunciation of
certain names of foreign places. He, too,
looked over her shoulder at them for sometime
; but the sight became painful to him, for
he had never forgiven himself for his ill-treatment
of poor Hester.

Don't turn away from them, dear,' said
Zeph, ' I do so want you to tell me the names
of the places. You need not pretend to be
ashamed of the pictures, for they are very
good.'

He came back to the folio, but his thoughts
were with the girl whom he had brought away

from the mountains to make miserable. Was
she now supporting herself by painting ? She
had gratefully, but absolutely, refused to accepta
penny from him, when he had, through
Mr. Blackmore and Dr. Simonds, offered hera
liberal income. Her refusal had added a
deeper regret to his memory of her, for at
least it would have been a comfort to him to
know that she was well off. The sketches he
was now turning over for Zeph reminded him
of so many circumstances which had taken
place while they were being painted  so many
acts of loving kindness and unselfish devotion,
that he soon ceased to be aware of what he was
supposed to be doing, and forgot to turn to a
new sketch. He hoped that Hester was selling
her drawings and feeling no touch of poverty.
The idea that such a thing was possible was
exceedingly bitter to him. He had more than
once looked in at Winthrop's and at other
dealers' exhibitions, but had never tu. a
drawing by Miss Langdale. Where could she
have found a shelter ? He did not know how

long this fit of abstraction had lasted. Zephyrs
wondering what could have caused it. She
had for some time been glancing furtively at
him, and she could not fail to see that his eyes
were dull, troubled, and full of regret, and his
mind evidently full of sadness. She had heard
him sigh more than once, and had no difficulty
in arriving at the conclusion that the sight of
these sketches stirred up recollections and
emotions that were painful. What right had
they to be so painful, was her indignant
thought ? Shame she expected him to feel, but
not regret.

Godfrey,' she said with some resentment,
you don't like looking at these old things ! '

No,' he replied, rousing himself with an
effort, ' I don't think I do.'

Tell me why,' said she.

She looked in his face as she spoke  he in
hers. The eyes of both fell almost instantly 
neither of them could sustain the gaze of the
other. The eyes of each would reveal to the
other thoughts and feelings that were to be

concealed. Zeph's betrayed a knowledge of
something that made her angry and unhappy
his, a deep and abiding regret. He tried to
answer her question lightly, and said,

'They all look so awfully bad when I see
them again ! '

Oh, no, Godfrey, don't say that  you can't
mean it.'

I do ; and besides, no one ever does like
to see things done long ago  there is always
something melancholy about it.'

But why ? ' persisted Zeph.

Oh, circumstances have changed ; people
have changed ; you yourself have changed 
everything is different.'

But if everything is better ? '

Everything is not always better ; it is
sometimes quite the other way.'

He had not said this with any personal
meaning, but was only speaking generally.
She chose to take it as expressing his sense of
her own inferiority to that other person, and
was deeply hurt and offended.

Don't let us think of looking at them,' said
she, in a voice that sounded somewhat angry, but
showed a very small part of the vexation she felt.

Oh, why not go on ? ' he exclaimed, determined
to conquer his feelings. And he had
his way, and persisted in showing the sketches
to the end. They were principally of foreign
places, and Zeph recognised many as towns
which Godfrey had found reasons for not visiting
when they were abroad together, though
she had wished to see them. Now she began
to think she knew the reason why he avoided
them, and was almost as absent as her husband
had been a while before. She was brooding
over what she was pleased to call her wrongs.
That person who had been with him when he
made those sketches still occupied his thoughts
recollections of her were intimately associated
with them. No doubt she had been able to
sketch, too. They had spent happy quiet days
beneath the walls of old grey towns and towers
set up on high on rocks and mountain-sides 
they had wandered here and there. She had

been able to share his work and his pleasure,
and to speak French and perhaps German and
Italian, and to read all the learned books upstairs,
and to talk to him in an educated way,
which amused and interested him, while she,
his wife, was dull and ignorant, and could do
nothing but bore him, and say things that made
him ashamed of her.

What is the matter, Zeph ? ' said Dales
in his turn. ' How very silent you have
suddenly become ! '

I am thinking,' she replied in a voice that
was not very sweet.

Of what ? ' he inquired. But she would
vouchsafe no explanation. She pretended not to
hear, but to be absorbed in the contemplation of
the castle of Bracciano. It was the last sketch in
the folio  the last Daylesford had ever touched.
Well he remembered doing it, and as he looked
at it now he felt the sharp sting of conscience.

You did not make any sketches when you
were abroad with me ? ' said Zeph, more sadly
than reproachfully.

Her words startled him, and for an instant
he looked almost suspiciously in her face, for
her words had seemed to betoken a contrast
between what he had done when abroad with
her and what he had done when with some one
else. She preserved an equable demeanour;
there was nothing to be learned by looking at
her. He made up his mind that there was
nothing to learn, and that she was only expressing
a regret.

'Next time we go I will. I wish you
sketched too ; take some lessons, and then you
will soon be able.'

'You will never succeed in making me
clever,' said she, bitterly. She was very jealous
of what that other had been able to do.

Nonsense, Zeph ; don't be so unreasonably
humble. You have done wonders with your
French and music'

She shook her head. He took her hand
to draw her nearer to him, but had for the
moment to content himself with kissing the tips
of her fingers, for she had espied something

behind the Bracciano which interested her.
He saw what it was with a pang, and wished
he had remembered that it was there and could
have kept it out of her sight. It was a small
flat parcel addressed to Daylesford in a handwriting
that was very pretty and a woman's,
and Zeph was almost certain that she had seen
it before on a letter that came when she was at
the Castle.

Whose writing is that, Godfrey ? ' she
asked quickly.

I am not sure I know,' said he, suddenly
feeling himself at the end of his resources so far.
as truth was concerned. ' Open the parcel, and
then perhaps I shall be able to tell you.'

It was the parcel containing the two sketches
of Berkhampstead, which Hester had made it a
matter of sentiment to do for his brother Mar-mature.
Daylesford had thrust them into that
folio when he found them on his return from
Santa Eulalia, and had never either seen or
thought of them since.

Zeph unfolded the paper, saw the drawings,

and straightway administered a blow to her
husband's vanity  a blow to which he was by no
means insensible.

Oh, you have done some of the Castle after
all ! ' said she. 'I was wondering why I saw
none. These two sketches are a thousand times
better done than any of the others. No one
would believe that they were by the same
person, they are so good.'

They are not by the same person,' replied
Daylesford, recovering himself as best he might,
They are by a professional  at least I expect
she is quite professional by this time. You
must have seen some of her things at Winthrop's.
She sometimes exhibits there.'

What is her name ? ' said Zeph, faint with
anxiety, and yet all but certain that, when he
answered that question, she would be in possession
of that dreaded name.

Her name is Langdale  Hester Langdale.
She is quite young as an artist, but her things
are very good.'

Very ! ' said Zeph, drawing a long breath,

for the tension was very great. ' And you got
these of her ? '

Yes,' he replied, wishing she would not
involve him in such a web of untruth by her
repeated questions, and yet not feeling able to
tell her how and why the drawings had really
been done.

'And you sent her to Berkhampstead to
make them ? ' pursued Zeph.

No  Yes  I can't tell you how they were
done. I did not send her, but she may have
gone ; not that I ever heard of her having done
so. It was arranged that they were to be
painted, and the rest, of course, was her affair.'

But she could not do them without seeing
the place, could she . '

I could not ; but perhaps she could. She
may have been to Berkhampstead ; but you
had more opportunity than I had of knowing
whether she was there or not, for you were
there when they were painted, and I was at
Santa Eulalia.'

I never saw any one sketching there,' said

Zeph, beginning to have a faint hope that she
had been distressing herself and tormenting her
husband about nothing. Then a new fancy-seized
her, and she said, ' I wish you would
give me those drawings, Godfrey. I do like
them so much.'

I cannot do that,' he answered, ' for they
are my brother's.'

Daylesford's brother was a very obnoxious
person to Daylesford's wife. He was made of
too much importance. Nothing of any consequence
could ever be done without reference to
what he would be likely to feel on the subject,
and whether it would in any way, however
small, be prejudicial to his interests. Zeph was
tired of both his feelings and his interests.

Everything is your brother's ! ' she exclaimed
pettishly ; ' at least everything that I
ever happen to want ; ' and having said that, she
let her pretty head droop lower and lower, and
sat looking ill-treated and disconsolate.

Daylesford was miserable at once and penitent,
and yet he could not bring himself to disregard

Hester's wish that his brother should
have those drawings. ' They are my brother's,'
he repeated, ' so I cannot give them away ; but
if you would like some drawings of the place,
you shall have the best that can be made. I will
give a commission to the best artist I know.'

Fo, thank you, ' said Zeph, rather coldly ;
I like these ; but if I cannot have them, never
mind. I don't want to take your brother's
things, of course.'

Daylesford looked perplexed ; he was
tempted to give them to her, but it did seem
so treacherous to give Hester's drawings to
Zeph. Zeph affected to forget her wish, and
turned back to Bracciano. Then she said,
'It is a very long time since we have been at
Berkhampstead ; I suppose we shall go there
soon ? ' '

I have been a great deal more there since
I knew you than I ever was before,' said
Daylesford.

It is "a pity to go so seldom,' said Zeph.
There safe few places so delightful.'

Very few ; but I want to have it well
understood that it is not my place. If I were
always there, and Marmaduke always out of
the way, people would only associate me with
it, and at last they would think it was mine.'

I sometimes wish it was,' said Zeph, who
was out of temper, and could not hide her
feelings. ' As it is, no one gets any good of it.'

Daylesford looked at his sweet young wife
in some dismay. She had said nothing yet
that he could positively object to, but he began
to be half afraid that certain thoughts might be
lurking behind her words which, if expressed,
would for ever rob her of much of his love and
respect.

I suppose we shall go there in a week or
two, as a matter of course ? ' said Zeph, after a
brief silence.

'I never go there as a matter of course,'
said he.

Why not ? One feels somebody there 
all is so old and grand.'

Zeph ! Zeph ! ' said he, remonstrating

with her as he would have done with a
child.

Why do you say; " Zeph, Zeph " ? ' she
exclaimed quickly ; ' those are quite natural
feelings. If one has ancestors one ought to
enjoy having them ; and if one has a splendid
old place, one ought to live in it. I made sure
that we should go there for part of August and
September, and I have almost promised Lady
Lucy that she and her husband and all of them
shall come while we are there. Don't look
vexed, Godfrey, I could not help it; she all
but invited herself You may be quite sure
that I did not want to have her there with us.
She is about as tiresome as a woman can be,
and those daughters of hers are, if anything,
worse.'

They are all appallingly dull. I would
not have them there for the world if the place
really was mine, so why should I have them
when it is not ? '

But, Godfrey, what could I do when she
was so persistent? She forced me to invite

her. She woukl have forced you to do it.
She won't be much trouble, she says ; she and
I will drive about slowly, and rest ourselves
after the fatigues of the season.'

I am afraid she will have to get her rest
elsewhere,' remarked Daylesford, ominously.

But you do go there to shoot sometimes,
I know you do,' said Zeph.

Of course I do, but I never ask a party.
I sometimes go for a day or two with a
few bachelor friends, but I never entertain
there, and I never will. If we were to go
there with an establishment, we should have
to entertain the county, and we should at
once assume a position to which we have no
right,'

No one says that we have no right to it
but you,' replied Zeph, * and it would be very
much nicer for us if we had it. We should be
much more thought of and of much more
importance, and I really cannot see why we
should not. It is not as if your abstaining did
your brother Marmaduke any good.'

VOL. III. c

Zeph had said this without observing that
her husband was letting her say what she liked
in perfect silence, but that his colour was rising
more and more and his hands moving nervously.
' Every one says that,' she added, asa
strong reinforcement of what she had said
before.

Who says that . ' said Daylesford, with
growing anger.

Oh, every one. Lady Lucy says so for
one, and other friends whom I meet in society
have often either said or hinted as much to me.
They all say that your refusal to take the title
and estates is Quixotic, simply Quixotic, and
that it does Marmaduke no good. You don't
take them, and he cannot, and the result is that
neither of you have them.'

'And you, Zeph  would you like me to
take them ? ' he asked very calmly, and yet
something in his voice awed her.

I ? Well, yes, I should, but not if it
would give you much pain to do it. Certainly
not, if it did that ; but if not, of course I should.

It would be much pleasant for us to move in
society on a more assured footing.'

Those are not your own words, Zeph,'
exclaimed Daylesford. ' Whose words are you
quoting ? '

Lady Lucy's. She thinks it is ridiculous
self-sacrifice. It is good and kind of you, no
doubt, she says, but it is a mere waste of goodness
and kindness.'

And what other persons say the same
thing ? ' asked Daylesford, eagerly.

Agnes says it sometimes, and so do others.'

Well, they may say it  one and all of
them may say it, and I do not regard their
words. There is one thing of which I am quite
certain, and that is, that your father would
never say such a thing ! He is a high-minded
and honourable gentleman, and he would
utterly despise me if, to please any petty vanity
or ambition, I could avail myself of the accident
which deprived us of the opportunity of producing
my mother's certificate of marriage, and
took the title and estates, when taking them

c 2

involves the admission of what I know to be
utterly false  that my own mother was a
woman of light character.'

He had risen to his feet, and was standing
looking down on her with bright angry eyes
and flushed cheeks. His words came thick
and fast, and were spoken under the influence
of passionately strong feeling  they seemed to
come from the depths of his heart. Never had
Zeph seen him look like that before  never
had she heard him speak in that angry and
excited manner. She dared not meet his eyes
she felt that he was looking down on her,
and regarding her as a mean and contemptible
creature whose ideas were so base that they
could only be heard with loathing. She
cowered beneath his gaze, felt the justice of his
contempt, wondered at her own unparalleled
baseness, and had never admired him so much.
She could not speak ; once she tried to do so,
but her voice failed her. She had never felt
so abject in her life. He was standing there
full of generous emotion, in which it was only

too evident that he knew she could take no
part. He had not said one word of direct
reproach to her, and yet his contempt was
stabbing her like a knife. He was speaking

again.

Never let me hear you hint at such a thing
again ! Never invite people to Berkhampstead,
and if no feeling on your own part prompts
you to such a course, I entreat you, as my wife,
to refuse to listen to all such persons as are
mean enough to recommend what is so base.
If you have committed yourself to Lady Lucy,
I will take a country-house, and you can invite
her and her family to stay with you ; but Berk-hampstead
is my brother's, and always will be
so long as I believe in my mother's truth and
purity ; ' and having said that, he hastily
quitted the room.

He was gone. He had left her without
saying another word. She had not expected
him to go so abruptly. She had known that
he was almost irretrievably shocked by this
revelation of her baseness, but she had hoped

that, when his anger was somewhat spent, he
would say some word to show that contempt
and indignation had not driven out every other
feeling, and that, deeply wounded though it
was, his love for her was not dead. But he
had left her without a word  he had even said
something which might prove that he never
intended to see her again ; ' You can invite
Lady Lucy to stay with you,' as if he himself
would not be there. Perhaps she would never
see him more. Perhaps he would at once goto
the brother whom he loved above all created
beings, and leave her to wear out the rest of
her life as best she might.

He was still in the house, she believed, but
she dared not follow him to entreat his forgiveness.
What, indeed, would it avail her todo
so ? He would, no doubt, forgive her, but
he could not promise to feel for her as he had
done before. She had not quite recognised
how much her words must convey to him until
she had heard his answer. How nobly he had
answered her !  how true was all that he had

said ! She had never felt so utterly abased
before. What fellowship could there henceforth
be between them ? Presently she heard
the house door shut ; he was o-one.

CHAPTEE XXVI.

'BUT YOU SEEM TO HAVE BEEN ENJOYING A
Mystery TOO ! '

Whatever be my lady's present, past,

Or future, this is certain of my soul 

I love her ! E. Browsing.

Zeph felt that she must do something. She
could not sit there hour after hour, until he
came home, and then not know whether she
dared to creep into his presence or not. perhaps
he did not even intend to come home.
She rose drearily to her feet, went to her room,
and slowly dressed to go out. She would goto
her father's house, and if her husband
wanted her to return, he would come in search
of her.

'Has your master left any message forme
. ' she inquired of the footman.

Not any, ma'am ; he only said that he
should not be in either to kmcheon or dinner.'

Then I shall not, either,' said she. ' Tell
him, when he returns, that I have gone to my
father's, and that I shall wait there until he
comes for me.'

She left the house at once and walked
quickly to Lome Gardens. Her father and
mother were now at home again, and she had
already seen them several times. She longed
to do so again. Some one was still left in the
world to love her so lons as those dear ones
lived. She climbed up the steep flight of steps
at the base of which she had parted from John,
but her mind was so full of what had just
occurred, that for once she did so without
remembering that scene and thinking of him.
She was soon admitted, and at once knocked
at the study-door. To a married daughter
much is permitted.

Are you very busy, father ? ' she asked.

I am always busy, dear,' he replied, ' and
more so than usual now, for my other work has

accumulated while I was at your husband's
place in the country.'

Don't call it his place,' exclaimed Zeph,
hastily. ' It is not his  it is Marmaduke's. I
thought you knew.'

Yes, dear, I know ; it was only my way
of speaking. It is his brother's, I know. I
wish I had succeeded in finding those papers
your dear good husband is so anxious about.
I hoped till the last, but found nothing.'

Ah, how I wish you had ! ' said Zeph, fervently
; and then she wondered if, supposing
she herself were ever the means of finding them,
he would then forgive her.

I begin to be afraid that nothing is found
because there is nothing to find,' said Mrs.
Treherne.

Mr. Treherne's mild blue eyes turned on his
wife in something very like anger. ' My dear,'
said he, solemnly, ' I sincerely hope you do not
know what your words imply. That is not a
speech a woman should be ready to make.'

What would he think and say if he knew

what words his daughter had that day permitted
herself to use ? And to Godfrey too ! She
would have no defender in her father. Her
husband was right on that point.

The two recluses had welcomed Zeph when
she first went into the room to see them, but
now, after these few minutes' conversation, they
relapsed into an attitude of wanting to get on
with their work. Zeph was very dear to her
father, but she could throw no light on mediaeval
history: her manners were charming, but all
his interest was in those of a bygone age, and he
had a manuscript lying on the table before
him, seen as yet by few, which would teach him
much that he was longing to know. He did
not want her to go quite away ; he would have
liked her to sit down and take a pen in her
hand, to be ready to write notes if such were
wanted, and thus let him continue to have the
pleasure of feeling that she was near him ; but
her poor mind was in such a disturbed state,
that she could not trust herself to do anything
that involved sitting quiet, so she went upstairs

to her sister Agnes, who was still the only one
at home.

Agnes was writing a long letter to Polly.
'Don't let me stop you,' said Zeph ; 'I will
wait  indeed I am going to stay till quite
late,' and fervently she hoped that that would
be all.

Oh, then I will just finish it,' replied
Agnes ; ' I should like to get it off. She writes
so seldom that I don't want to leave her the
excuse of saying that it is because I do the same.
Zeph, do you think that there is any reason for
her writing so seldom ? '

I suppose she has nothing to tell us.'

Or else so much that she does not know
where to begin. That's my idea of it. By-the-bye,
I met Dr. Simonds this morning, and he
said that he and his wife were both wondering
what could make John stay at Alnminster after
the school had broken up. All schoolmasters
go away then, he says.'

'Then John might as well go too. Why
doesn't he ? ' said Zeph, carelessly.

I don't know ; that is one of the things
that I can't help wondering about.'

Well, get on with your letter,' said Zeph,
impatiently ; and Agnes began to wish that she
had held her tongue.

May I go and look at my own poor little
old bedroom while you are writing ? ' said
Zeph, after a silence. ' I should so like to
see it.'

So she went upstairs, marvelling, as she
always did marvel now, at the incredible
smallness of everything. Her room was unchanged.
Every object was familiar, and had
once been dear to her. Each represented a
sacrifice of some kind which she had been
obliged to make before she could afford to buy
it, and yet there was not one thing in the whole
room which she had thought worth carrying
away with her when she married. Before she
knew what she was doing, she had seated herself
once more on the old black box on which
she had done so much hard thinking in the days
when she had been so often unhappy. She did

some hard thinking now. How should she bear
it if she had to return to her father's house, and
occupy this Httle hole of a room, and hive the
joy-forsaken life of other days ? The chances
were that she would have to do it. How should
she break this disgraceful fact to her family ?
She would not do so until the last moment, but
if her husband had not come to take her home
before eleven, she would know that the time
had come to tell what had happened. Never
before had she at all realised the value of his
love and kindness. He was a friend whose
heart had always been open to her. What
were all other ties by comparison with her
husband's love ? She had come home bruised
and almost heartbroken  none of her own
family had even seen that she was suffering.
She had not exchanged a word with any of them
for some days, and yet none of them came near
her ; they seemed perfectly satisfied to let her
sit alone in a garret at the top of the house ;
and yet she was grumbling at what she was
thankful for. She was better alone.

What a wicked fool I have been ! ' she
thought. ' What an incredibly wicked fool !
A dear, kind man was good enough to love me,
and I had not even the decency to abstain from
wounding him in the very tenderest point!
He has given me everything. What have I
given him ? Neither love, nor kindness, nor
common courtesy and forbearance.'

She did not know how long she had been
alone when Jack, who had now returned home
from some holiday expedition, came to tell her
that Agnes had finished her letter, and was
Ravishing that she would go down. The sight
of Jack was too much for Zeph. She would
probably have broken down anyhow, but he
converted the probability into a certainty by
saying, ' Why, Zeph, you look just as you used
to do before you went away ! '

She flung her arms round him and said,
And I feel just as I used to do, Jack. I am
so unhappy about something, dear, and my
head does ache so badly ! ' He made her he
down on the bed, and did his best to comfort

her, and Agnes came, and somehow or other
the day passed.

Had you not better go home ? ' suggested
Agnes, when evening drew near ; ' you would
be more comfortable in your own room. Jack
will run and get a cab, and I will go with you
and stay an hour or two.'

'Fo,' said Zeph, shaking her head, 'I have
made up my mind to stay here till Godfrey
comes for me. It is no use going home ; he is
out, and won't be in till late.' So she lay on
the sofa in the drawing-room with her eyes
fixed on the clock. Would he come and take
her away or not ? She dared not show her
anxiety. For the most part she was alone with
Agnes. Jack went to bed early, and Mrs.
Treherne could not leave her husband.

It is a quarter to eleven,' said Zeph, feeling
more and more wretched as her hopes
began to fade away.

In reality it is a quarter past,' replied
Agnes ; ' that clock is half an hour slow.'

Alas, then, all was over, and henceforth she

was to stay where she now was ! She turned
her face to the wall to hide it from her sister.
She heard a sound which made her wish to
listen, but she had heard many such sounds,
and knew she should only be disappointed
again.

There is the carriage ! ' exclaimed Agnes,
suddenly. ' I am quite sure ; I heard it stop.'

The bell rang ; he was there. How was
she to meet him ? She hid her face and lay
quite still, trembling at the sound of his step.

Poor Zeph has been so ill ever since she
came,' said Agnes. ' I wanted her to let me
take her home, but she would not ; she said
she must wait here till you came for her.'

Zeph half raised her eyes to his face ; she
dared not really look at him.

I am so sorry you have been so ill,' said
he ; 'you had better come home at once.'

She rose to her feet immediately, but neither
looked up nor spoke, and he tenderly led her
downstairs and put her in the carriage. ' forgive
me, Godfrey,' she said, when the door was

VOL. 111. D

shut and they were left alone ; it was all she
could say.

He took her to his heart in a moment, saying,
' My darling, you did not mean it, I know.'
His kindness overwhelmed her ; she laid her
head on his shoulder in thankfulness, and did
not utter one word all the way home.

Was Zeph better for what had occurred ?
Infinitely better in some respects, and during
that day of misery she had come nearer to
loving her husband than ever she had done
before. She respected him for the just indignation
he had shown, and she had learnt the
value of his love. But she was not so happy
as she had been before ; she could not forget
how she had writhed beneath his scorn, and
was perpetually conscious that she had descended
to a considerably lower level in his
estimation. He was kind  he was more than
kind, but an indefinable something had sprung
up in his manner, which showed that she was
no longer the woman whom he reverenced,

but the woman whom he loved and meant to
be kind to in spite of much that jarred on
him. And then he went out alone a great
deal more than he had done before, and
Zeph, who was beginning to find that his society
was necessary to her happiness, felt this
acutely, but dared not notice it, for what was
she that he should care to bear her company ?
She was neither educated enough to be an
intellectual companion to him, nor yet was shea
loving woman who shared his joys and
sorrows and sympathised with all his feelings.
She had unhappily proved herself lamentably
the reverse, and had deliberately wounded him
on the one point on which he was most sensitive,
and earned his contempt by showing him
that the principles of honour and delicacy
which governed his life were to her a dead
letter. She could not tell him that she had
spoken thoughtlessly, and had not expressed
her true feelings. She was too honest to do
that, for it was not the fact. There had been
a time when she admired Daylesford for his

M -1

behaviour with respect to the title and estates,
but intercourse with the great world had stimulated
her ambition more and more. She had
learned the value of honours and dignities, and
wealth and power, and had begun to regret the
waste of those which belonged of right to the
Daylesford family. If Marmaduke could have
profited by his younger brother's devotion,
Zeph would have viewed her husband's sacrifice
calmly, nay more than calmly ; but Marmaduke
was an exile, and would probably never return
to England ; the title was in abeyance, the
money accumulating no one knew for whom ;
the Castle shut up, and all benefit fi-rom this
great inheritance lost to both. Why should
not her husband take what the law had declared
to be justly his ? She had more friends than
one in the great world who had expressed this
opinion to her without the least hesitation, and
gradually she had begun to share it. She felt
very differently now that Godfrey had put the
case before her in its true light ; but now, alas !
it was too late. She had spoken words which

he could never forget. He did not forget them ;
she saw this only too surely, or thought she did
so. She watched him incessantly, weighed his
words, appraised his looks ; was certain that he
loved her less. He did not spend half so much
time with her as he had once done ; what
should she do if things grew worse ?

The time came to leave London, and they
spent the late summer and early autumn in
paying a series of visits. Lady Lucy had
received other invitations, and as her thirst forrest
was likely to be appeased elsewhere, she
did not seem to regret Berkhampstead much,
so Daylesford and his wife were free to make
their own plans. He would not go to Berk-hampstead,
however, not even for a few days.
He said that, if they did, Mrs. Scatcherd would
be sure to infest the house all the time they
were there, and that he would not go until he
had persuaded some one to give her husband a
good living. Zeph found matter for sadness in
these words. She chose to consider that they
implied a reproach to herself. Mrs. Scatcherd

found her a congenial companion, and Godfrey,
no doubt, regarded them as much on a par.
Perhaps we are ! ' thought Zeph ; she was beginning
to estimate herself very humbly.

Early in October they returned to London ;
Daylesford was going to pay a fortnight's visit
to a bachelor friend in Scotland, and Zeph was
for the first time to be left alone. The day of
his departure was drawing very near, when he
received a letter from Miss Everilda. It came
when they were at breakfast, and after reading
it he passed it across the table to Zeph without
any comment. It was an invitation to Seaton
Court. Miss Everilda said she knew that
Daylesford was engaged to pay a visit in Scotland,
but that if he came at once there was
time for him to spend at least a week with her
before he was due there, and that, as Zeph was
not going to Scotland with him, she must makeup
her mind to give her poor old cousin the
pleasure of her company during that time, and
Daylesford could pick her up on his way home.
That, as he thought, seemed an excellent plan,

but, unfortunately, Miss Everilda added, ' T
write to you, my dear cousin by marriage  an
alliance, by the way, of which I am very proud
because, though I have written two letters
already on the same subject to your sweet
young wife, she has refused to accede to my
wishes, and I want to interest you in my
request. I very much want her to come. I
want you even more. Your sister-in-law Mary
has no grown-up brother of her own, and there
are times in a girl's life when this loss is much
felt. A brother would be invaluable to my
dear Mary now. I am with her, and I love her
truly, but my love is perhaps not far-seeing, and
no woman can judge of a man's worth so acutely
as a fellow-man can do. This being the case,
do come. I am not at liberty to write more
openly. It would not be seemly to anticipate
what may be coming ; but if nothing is coming,
no harm will be done by your giving me the
great pleasure of seeing you and your wife here,
and surely it would be pleasant by far for her
to be here, with her own affectionate relatives.

than in London, when you are not there with
her. By-the-bye, I do think you ought both
of you to come, if only to see Mary in the
lovely fancy dress your good taste has provided
her with. Zeph will have told you about the
ball I have been persuaded to give. It is to
take place on the 12th, just when you would
both be here. I did think of giving it earlier,
but had to postpone it till the county magnates
returned from the sea-side.' Daylesford had
watched Zeph's face while she read this rigmarole,
and could easily see that she was feeling
annoyed by something more than the wild confusion
of its style.

She does enjoy a mystery ! ' exclaimed
Zeph, impatiently.

'But you seem to have been enjoying a
mystery too ! ' observed Daylesford, drily.
Your cousin says that she has already asked
us twice, and that you have each time refused.
You never told me that we had been invited.'

Because  I am afraid it was because I did
not want to go,' replied Zeph, blushing.

Not want to go ! But why, dear ? '

Oil, for a great many reasons ; and I don't
think you would like to stay in Miss Everilda's
house, you would be bored to death by her
absurdities.'

But she is so anxious we should go, and
she asks you to stay there while I am in Scotland.
That would be much pleasant than
staying here. Did she propose that before, oris
it a new idea ? '

It is new ; but I don't want to go at all,
Godfrey.'

You need not stay quite so long. Seaton
Court is near Alnminster. Seeing that cathedral
would atone for a great deal of boredom.'

'I don't want to see it, I am sure,' said
Zeph ; and then she would have liked to recall
her words, for he would consider them another
proof of her uneducated want of interest.

But don't you want to see Polly again ?
You have not been with her for months ; and
don't you see that we are both omitting to take
into account the real reason why your cousin

is SO anxious we should go ? Polly has got a
lover! Your cousin is afraid of the responsibility
of letting an engagement take place
under her roof without '

But you surely do not want to take
the responsibility upon yourself ? ' exclaimed
Zeph.

'I don't understand you, Zeph dear,' he
replied, fixing his honest kindly eyes on this
perplexing wife of his.

'Dear Godfrey, that is not my fault. I
have been trying to make you understand that
I would rather not go. Please do not let us
think of it.' '

But won't she say that it is unkind if we
don't? and, by-the-bye, is it not unkind 
to Polly I mean, even more than to your
cousin ? '

Zeph shook her head. ' No, not unkind
at all ; we could do nothing either to help
her engagement or to hinder it, whatever we
thought, and we shall not be considered unkind
if we give a good reason for our refusal.'

But what reason would be a good one in
answer to such a letter as that ? ' he asked,
wondering more and more.

'Let us think a little,' said Zeph, hoping
that she had persuaded him.

'Have you any idea who this gentleman
is ? ' he asked. ' I don't want you to tell me
Polly's secret, if they are secrets, but I suppose
she has told you all about him.'

Zeph blushed so painfully that he was sorry
for her ; but he could not imagine why she
should do So ' Lie has never said anything tome
 never given me the least hint that anything
was going on.'

Just as Zeph said this, and mercifully as it
happened, for it helped to screen her, a note
was brought from Agnes. Miss Everilda had
invited her to go to Seaton Court with the
Daylesfords if they went, and to stay there for
some time, and Agnes, who had not been from
home for more than a year, and then only fora
week to Berkhampstead when Zeph was
married, was full of delight. She would be

there for the ball,  she would enjoy many
other pleasures as yet unknown to her.

What is it ? ' asked Daylesford, perceiving
that Zeph was not pleased by what she was
reading.

Oh, she has asked Agnes to go with us,
and Agnes is very much delighted.'

Another reason for our going,' said Dales
' It would be cruel to disappoint her.'

Zeph went to the window. If Godfrey
persisted in urging her thus she would have to
speak of something that she did not even like
to think about. It was cruel of him to try
to make her do what he must see she dished
so much. He would not have done that
six months ago, when he loved her, and this
thought made her very unhappy.

At this moment Agnes came in. She had
followed her own note very quickly. ' You
have got my note ? You know that Miss
Everilda wants me to go to Seaton Court with
you ? ' she asked, her eyes dancing with
pleasure.

Yes, but I don't think we are going  at
least I don't want to go,' replied Zeph.

That is what I was so afraid of,' said
Agnes, sadly ; ' I thought you might perhaps
not quite like to go.'

Not quite like to go,' thought Daylesford ;
why should she not ? ' It was manifest that,
whatever the reason might be, Agnes was well
acquainted with it.

'I do so want you to accept,' pleaded
Agnes ; ' I have never been anywhere or seen
anything, but I'm not to go unless you do.'

Zeph made some answer which did not
amount to much, and looked at Daylesford.
He would have liked to know more about this,
but, being a gentleman, and seeing that the
two girls were not able to talk as freely as they
wished in his presence, he made some excuse
and left them alone.

Why should my wife dislike paying this
visit ? ' He asked himself this question again
and again. When he went home he found
that xlgnes had completely changed her mind

and no longer wished to go to Seaton Court,
and that the two his had, subject to his consent,
arranged to pass the fortnight which he
was to spend in Scotland, together ; Agnes was
to come and stay with her sister. He could
not but believe that his wife had persuaded the
poor girl to sacrifice her wishes.

What do you say to our plan, Godfrey ? '
asked Agnes.

I do not know what to say. I think Methought
to go. I am afraid, if not, Polly will
think her unkind.'

Polly think her unkind ! ' exclaimed the
indiscreet Agnes ; ' Polly is not the one who
wants Zeph to go. I don't suppose she even
knows that Miss Everilda has written to ask
her. Polly would have stopped her if she had.
She would '

Zeph was looking much distressed. Agnes
caught sight of her face and checked herself
suddenly.

Why should Polly stop her ? ' asked Dales
rather indignant with the expression.

Because she would be perfectly sure that
Zeph would not want to go there ! '

I am afraid I don't quite understand,' said
Godfrey.

I mean it is so dull there,' said Agnes, who
had not Zeph's straightforward determination
to tell the truth at any cost.

Dull, when so short a time before Agnes
had been longing to go because of the many
pleasures she would enjoy! Zeph looked distressed
; nothing would have induced her to
make such a false excuse. Daylesford, of course,
noticed the discrepancy between Agnes's present
and past views, but he felt sure that, when he
and Zeph were alone together, she would give
the explanation which now seemed to be really
needed. But Zeph made no attempt to explain
anything, and Daylesford felt aggrieved. She
looked at him as if she would like to say something.
He gave her openings and opportunities
to do it ; she never availed herself of any of
them, and he grew more and more dissatisfied
and estranged from her.

If you don't want to go to Seaton Court
you shall not go, but I think I shall for a day
or two,' said he.

'Thank you, Godfrey,' she replied, and he
did not know whether she was thanking him for
sparing her a trial or for being ready to undergo
one himself. Zeph was very subdued in
her manner nowadays, for she was perpetually
tormented by the consciousness that she had
forfeited much of her husband's love. She
watched for signs of this, and made herself
miserable when, as was often the case, she
thought she found them, and he in his turn was
watching her just as narrowly. He could not
fail to observe that her manner to him was
much changed ; it was anxious and deferential ;
and he often saw her looking at him with eyes
full of sadness. ' What is it, Zeph ? You are
not quite happy about something,' he sometimes
said.

It is nothing,' she always replied, for she
was afraid it was but natural that he should
love her less after what had occurred, and

ashamed to complain that he left h(3r alone so
much more. Men were not expected to devote
almost their whole time to their wives ; she
knew that. He had been very good when the'
first came home, and all was new and strange
to her ; then he had always been at hand.
She could not expect that kind of thing to goon
for ever. Nevertheless it made a great
difference.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

I HAVE A VERY PARTICULAR REASON.'

This sounds as bad as truth.  Shelley.

Daylesford did not go to Seaton Court until
his return from Scotland, but that did not prevent
his receiving a warm welcome from Miss
Everilda.

Where is Polly ? ' he asked, soon after his
arrival.

She is doing something for me ; you will
Se her directly, poor dear,'

Is anything amiss with her ? ' asked
Daylesford.

No ; yes. My dear Mr. Daylesford, our
house is full of excitement just now  a great
deal that is interesting is going on in it. I
don't know when I have enjoyed anything
more ! I asked you here to give your opinion

of one lover, and now we have actually two
coming ; at least one of them has given upcoming,
and that's what makes it so interesting.'

Two ! ' said Daylesford in some confusion,
as was not unnatural, considering the vagueness
of the information she gave him.

Yes, two ; at least I suppose I may say
two, for I am sure that Mr. Cuthbert is in love
with Mary, for he is always* coming to see her ;
and Mr. Simonds won't come, so he must have
a very strong feeling for her too.'

I don't quite see that,' said Daylesford.

Oh, yes, I do ; he was always here till he
got vexed and jealous ; and he would not have
got jealous if he had not been in love, now
would he ?  and isn't it interesting ? '

I wish you would explain a little,' said
Daylesford.

I will  I want to do so. I will put the
situation perfectly before you. Our first lover
was Mr. Simonds, one of the masters at the
Alnminster School, and he used to come here
very often before the ball. Lover number two

E 2



made his first appearance at that ball. He is
a rich young squire in the neighbourhood.
Mr. Simonds, you know, perhaps, does not
dance much, and is not much at home at balls
or entertainments of that kind, and Mr. Cuthbert
is quite different, and appears to great
advantage in society. I told dear Mary at the
time that she was dancing far too much with
Mr. Cuthbert, and letting him make her too
conspicuous ; but she said she could not help
it, for there was no keeping him away from
her, and that he asked her for nearly every
dance. Mr. Simonds saw this, and began to
look very black and indignant, and finally he
went away and walked on the terrace 'outside
in the moonlight. Wasn't it deliciously like a
novel ? I did so enjoy it ! Then Mr. Cuthbert
called next day, and came back the day afterwards
on some excuse, and Mr. Simonds was
here then, and saw him, and was vexed by
his attentions to Mary, and perhaps with her
manner to him, and left abruptly, and now he
will not come at all. He has refused all my

invitations for the last fortnight, so nov I have
resolved to let him have his own way and stay
at home if he likes, for in every respect Mr.
Cuthbert is a better match for my Mary, and he
lives only three miles off, so I should see her
whenever I liked, and have her at hand to help
me with my banking books.'

But which of the two does she like best ?

I don't know. She ought to prefer Mr.
Cuthbert, for John Simonds has behaved ina
very stupid, ill-tempered way. I feel quite
offended, for I have been very kind to him, and
now he refuses all my invitations.'

Don't distress yourself about it  leave it
to time.'

It does not distress me, except for Mary's
sake. So far as I am concerned, nothing could
have happened better. It is a mine of study
and inspiration to me. Stop, as we are alone,
I really do think I might read you one or two
of the things I have written lately. I owe
every one of them to this, and they are by far
the best things I have ever done.'

But ought I not to see Polly ? ' said he, in
much trepidation. 'You said that she was at
home.'

Yes ; she is in the breakfast-room with
Mr. Cuthbert,' replied Miss Everilda. ' She
went to add up my savings' bank accounts forme.
and he said he would not mind helping her
John Simonds used to help her before. She
does not know that you are here. They are
very difficult to balance, and I told Thomas on
no account to interrupt her.'

Then perhaps we ought not to interrupt
her,' said Daylesford.

Perhaps not. I want you to see Mr.
Cuthbert ; but there is no need to be in a
hurry about that, for he is going to dine here ;
I asked him when he came.'

Tell me all about him, as his case seems
the most pressing,' said Daylesford. 'I am
very anxious about Polly's happiness.'

It won't be secured by letting her marry
that ill-tempered Mr. Simonds  Mr. Cuthbert
is worth twenty of him ! I think, if you will

let me read a poem I wrote about Mr. Cuthbert
yesterday, you will get a better idea of
him than I could ever give you in plain prose.'

Oh, no ; as it is a matter of business, do
tell me in plain prose,' said Daylesford, in great
alarm ; 'I think it will be better for me, I
really do.'

I will try. I will do my best to set him
before you. His father was a sporting squire
of good family, and he died when this George
Cuthbert was a boy, He has two sisters, who
are well married and living in the county, and
he is rich, and young, and rather good-looking.
He does not care for poetry, I fear ; but if he
marries Mary we must try to get him to like it.
At present I am sorry to say he always falls
asleep if I read anything long to him, especially
if it is my own composition ; but when he marries
my dear little cousin, no doubt he will feel
more interest. He has a large estate and a
charming house about three miles off. He has
just returned from America, that is why he and
Mary have not met before.'

It sounds well. Is there no drawback ? '

Some people might think it a drawback
that he is a widower ; but I don't.'

That depends,' said Daylesford, oracularly.
And now tell me something about Mr.
Simonds.'

I have not patience to speak of him. It
is rude to refuse ray invitations, but he shall
have no more till this is settled. His father is
a doctor in London ; but there is no need to
tell you about him, for the Simon does and the
Trehernes have always been friends, and you
must have heard all about them from your wife.
You shake your head ; well, they played together
as children, and ran in and out of each
other's houses and called each other by their
Christian names. Mr. Simonds is always saying
Polly when he speaks to Mary now ; and then
he checks himself; and I daresay it would bethe
same with Zeph. However, he is not so
good a match as Mr. Cuthbert, so I am very
glad he has given up coming. I am very
anxious Mary should choose wisely.'

What is wisely ? '

Ah ! that remains to be proved ; if she
marry the one lie loves best, all will be
right.'

Miss Everilcla had said that Mr. Cuthbert
was a young man, so Daylesford was considerably
surprised when a gentleman of thirty nine
or forty walked into the drawing-room. The
poor lady knew that he was a little younger
than she herself was, and every one who was
younger than herself was young in her eyes,
for she measured her age by her feelings, and
they were as youthful as ever.

Polly was unfeignedly glad to see Dales
and the glow of pleasure which brightened
her face at once was sufficient for sometime
to hide all other feelings. After a while,
however, he could see that her words lagged,
that her manner was anxious and constrained,
and that she sometimes returned very short
answers to Mr. Cuthbert's polite speeches. He
seemed to be full of plans for Daylesford's
amusement and pleasure. He invited them all

to go next day to see one of the show places of
the county, an old manor-house and abbey
standing in a beautiful little estate of which he
was the owner. It was ten miles off, and the
weather was beginning to be cold for a long
drive, Miss Everilda said, but yet Mr. Dales
ought to see this ; or would he like to
make sure of seeing Alnminster first ? Polly's
eyes seemed to show some anxiety as to his
decision ; he saw that she was hoping he would
pronounce in favour of Alnminster, but, before
he could do so, Miss Everilda exclaimed, ' Oh
no, we will go to Alnminster another day ;
there is no fear of bad weather ; it is never wet
when I want to go anywhere.'

'Yes, please go to Aislaby tomorrow. I
want you to do that first,' said Mr. Cuthbert.
How shall we go ? You might take Mr.
Daylesford in the brougham, and then I would
drive Miss Treherne in my mail-phaeton.'

Polly cast such an imploring glance at
Daylesford that he came to her rescue at once
and said, ' Oh, no, let us go together ; we could

go in an open carriage if the ladies took a good
supply of wraps.'

So it was settled, and later in the evening
Polly thanked Daylesford for what he had done
for her. ' I did not want to drive all the way
to Aislaby alone with him. Miss Everilda is
the one who likes him, not I. I should have
had to do it though, had it not been for you

You must always give me a hint when I
can do anything for you,' said Daylesford, who
had a great regard for Polly.

May I ? Then will you do something else ?
Mr. Cuthbert will want you to put off going to
Alnminster till Friday, but I wish you would
say that you must go tomorrow. I have a
particular reason for this  a very particular
reason.'

All right,' said Daylesford, ' I will. You
don't much care for Mr. Cuthbert, I think ? '

'No, not very much, though he is kind,'
she answered. She looked as if she would like
to say more, but dared not, and almost immediately
afterwards Miss Everilda, who had left

them alone for a minute or two while lie made
some arrangements for next day's expedition,
returned. ' Dear Mary,' she said affectionately,
you don't seem quite yourself to-night ; are
you tired ? I have not heard your pretty laugh
all the evening.'

Mary returned no answer, so Daylesford
looked up quickly to see why, and caught sight
of something glistening in the girl's eyes ; they
had filled with sudden tears : a word or two
of kindness had been too much for her. She
turned away to examine a card on the mantelpiece
and answered as lightly as she could, but
from that moment his heart was enlisted in her
cause. He would not leave that house until he
had done all he could to make her happy.

The drive to Aislaby was enjoyable enough,
and it was a most beautiful place, even at that
chilly period of the year.

Keep with me, please, Godfrey,' Polly had
whispered when they alighted from the carriage,
so he never left her. He felt that Mr. Cuthbert
was regarding him as a stupid creature who

was determined to stay where he was not
wanted, and was continually looking at him
with a very discontented eye ; but he obeyed
Polly and never strayed from her side. They
walked through the park and soon came to a
lovely river side path between tall trees and
chris. The trees were magnificent, and even at
that late period of the year they were still
covered with leaves ; some were even green,
others were russet or scarlet, and many a bright
gold one was even now fluttering down to the
feet of the passers-by. Some fell lingeringly
into the impetuous little brown stream which
was hurrying so fast onwards to meet the strong
river, in which ere long its existence would be
merged. How it dashed the bright leaves
against the rocks which thwarted its progress !
how it whirled them through the rapids
between these barriers ! One leaf might be
traced far on its way. Sometimes it seemed to
have found a resting-place as part of a golden
girdle round some rock, and then some invisible
current began to dislodge it, and point

by point it lost its place in the bright band, and
slipped back into the whirl of the water.

Poor little leaves ! ' said Polly to Dales
' they don't want to leave this place. I
should not want to leave it either, if I lived
here.'

There is a very good house,' said Mr.
Cuthbert, who had approached unperceived,
much to Polly's discomfiture. ' It is just round
the corner.'

Who lives in it ? ' asked Miss Everilda.

Only a housekeeper. It is a sweet place,
but somehow I have always preferred thorny.
The kennels are there, you see. We
will go and look at the house.'

It was a pretty old house, not large, but
comfortable.

Come in,' said Mr. Cuthbert, ' there
are some pictures ; I want to show you
one.'

They went and saw the pictures, and the
gardens, and the ruins, and then returned to
the house to luncheon ; Mr. Cuthbert trying

all the time to detach Polly from the rigorous
guardianship of her brother-iix-law.

You must let me escort you to Alnminster,'
said Mr. Cuthbert when they reached home.
We must all go. Shall we go on Friday ? '

Daylesford remembered his promise to
Polly, and said he must go on Thursday ; and
then he learnt why she had made him do so,
for Mr. Cuthbert at once said he had an engagement
on Thursday and could not go.

'It must be Thursday, I fear,' replied
Daylesford, ' for on Friday I return to London.'

Thank you for what you have done for me
to-day,' said Polly, when Mr. Cuthbert, who
had stayed to dinner, had at last gone home.

And what can I do for you tomorrow ? '
asked Daylesford.

Polly blushed crimson. 'Nothing that I
know of,' said she ; ' but I will ask you if I
do think of anything.'

Is that a bargain ? ' he said.

It is, a faithful one, and it is my interest
to keep to it.'

They set off to Alnminster about ten.

I mean to devote myself entirely to showing
you the beauties of the place. I shall not
enter a single house, or waste a minute in
speaking to any one,' said Miss Everilda.

Unless it is some one who is very agreeable,'
said Daylesford.

Oh, no, not even then.'

Of course, as soon as they reached the
Cathedral Close, Miss Everilda darted off to one
of the canons' houses to inquire after some
invalid friend, and Daylesford and Polly were
told to make their way into the cathedral and
get a verger to show them round. Miss
Everilda did not mind missing that part of the
day, as she knew every word he would say to
them. When they came to the door leading
out of the cloisters, however, they were kept
back by a man with a wand. Service was not
quite over ; it was a Saint's day, and that made
it rather longer. There was a good deal to
look at, and they did not object to waiting.
Suddenly a whole band of white-surprised

King's Scholars streamed forth, and presently
Daylesford saw Polly shaking hands with a
handsome man in a surplice avIio looked very
glad to see her. He had little difficulty in
guessing this to be John Simonds, and strolled
away to examine the roof of the cloisters and
leave them the opportunity of saying a word
or two in peace. In a short time she came to
him with her newly-found companion. She did
not introduce him to Daylesford, but said, ' We
ought to go inside and find a verger, or Miss
Everilda will think that I am not doing my
duty by her guest.'

You need not have a verger, if you will
allow me to be your guide,' said Mr, Simonds.
I have nothing to do now till school begins
again at two o'clock, so I am entirely at your
service. Wait one moment, please, till I get
rid of this surplice.'

He soon rejoined them, and they all went
inside the building together, and still she did
not introduce the two gentlemen to each other.
Daylesford heartily liked the new-comer; he

VOL. HI. F

liked his honest, manly way of speaking, and
handsome kindly face. ' He is worth a dozen
Cuthbert,' thought he, ' and I am glad Polly
knows it.' Polly evidently did know it ; she
had become a different being.

You have not been to see us for a whole
fortnight,' she said to John, when she was sure
the reconciliation was so firmly established that
she could risk an allusion to the past.

Don't remind me. Do you think I don't
know and feel it ? Will Miss Everilda let me
go back with you, and stay to dinner this
evening, or shall you all be too tired . '

We shall not be tired at all,' replied Polly,
who could now have walked all day without
knowing that there was such a thing as fatigue.
Daylesford thoroughly enjoyed the hour spent
in the cathedral, for Mr. Simonds made all they
saw interesting. It was a whole hour before
Miss Everilda returned. At last she came,

Oh, Mr. Simonds ! ' she exclaimed, ' yoi.
here ? ' She was surprised, and never concealed
her feelings.

Yes,' said he, ' I had the great good
fortune to meet Miss Polly at the door. It is a
Saint's day, you know, so I am here.'

You might have  but no, I will forgive
you,' said Miss Everilda, magnanimously. ' But
you really have been long in coming to see us.'

It has seemed longer to me than to you,'
murmured John ; and then he said, ' I have
just been wondering whether I might go back
with you to-day and spend the evening. I
could walk home.'

We shall be delighted. Do come.'

You won't go till after four ? ' said he ; ' I
am not free till then.'

Oh, no, my cousin has never been here
before, and there is a great deal to show him.
Come, Mr. Daylesford, we must be moving

Daylesford was speaking to Polly. John
started and said, ' Mr. Daylesford ! Is that the
name of your friend ? '

Yes. Have you not been introduced .
Mary, how thoughtless of you not to introduce
Mr. Daylesford to Mr. Simonds ! Mr. Simonds,

f2

Mr. Daylesford. You know who Mr. Dales
is, of course. I am proud to say that he
is a relative of mine, for he has married my
beautiful niece Josephine Treherne. You remember
her, of course, in your young days,
Mr. Simonds ; was she not a sweet creature ? '

Polly looked dismayed. Miss Everilda
would have run on still further if Daylesford,
who saw that something had occurred that was
extremely displeasing to John, had not come
up and silenced her for the moment by attracting
her attention to a bit of fine carving.

John had turned pale. Polly came to him
as soon as Miss Everilda had gone away with
Daylesford, and at once she said, ' John, forgive
me ; I purposely refrained from introducing
you ; I knew his name would distress
you.'

Oh, no, it does not distress me,' he
answered, recovering himself. ' It is not that
it was only the first shock  that's all.'

You would like him if you knew him,'
said she.

Now that, perhaps, is going a little bit too
far  at least for the present. I daresay he is
extremely pleasant, but T don't wish to be acquainted
with him. I shall not come out to
Seaton Court to-day. What excuse shall I
make ? '

Go away now, and say nothing about
going back with us, and then send a note to
say that you cannot. But I am afraid Miss
Everilda will be offended again.'

What are you two plotting ? ' inquired
luckless Miss Everilda. ' Come, Mr. Daylesford,
we must be going. Oh, Mr. Simonds, do tell
Mr. Daylesford the story about that mark on
the tomb there.'

I am extremely sorry,' replied John, ' but
I am afraid I must leave you or Miss Polly to
tell that, for I shall have to hurry away  I
have an engagement at home now.'

Indeed ? ' said Miss Everilda, incredulously.
Even she, though she lived in a poetical haze,
could see that he was leaving them because, for
some reason or other, he did not want to stay.

Daylesford saw it too, and could not but remember
that an hour ago he had said that he
had no engagement till two o'clock.

I really must go,' said John.

Well, good-bye, then,' said Miss Everilda ;
we shall meet again at four.'

He bowed so as to include the whole party,
and hurried away without looking at Dales
who could not fail to perceive that he
himself was the mark of this man's dislike.

What can be the matter with him now ? '
said poor perplexed Miss Everilda ; ' that
young man is much too ill-tempered to have
the management of boys. Don't you agree
with me, Polly ? '

Polly hung her head and seemed to decline
to think at all. They walked about the town
and saw the castle and all the fine views, and
at last it was time to go home.

But where is Mr. Simonds ? ' inquired Miss
Everilda.

I don't believe he will come,' thought
Daylesford ; and he was right, for a note came

instead to say that a duty had unexpectedly
been thrust on him which would detain him
the whole of that day, but that he would take
an early opportunity of calling at Seaton Court.
Miss Everilda threw his note on the floor
and said that his conduct was unpardonable.
Daylesford looked at Polly, who did not seem
either surprised or distressed.

You knew that he would not come,' said
Daylesford in a low voice some ten minutes
later, while Miss Everilda was jotting down a
line thought.

Polly made no answer  she could not deny
it. He could say no more, for the carriage
was ready, and they set out on their way home.
Little was said during the five-miles drive.
Miss Everilda had a bad headache, and Polly
was tired. She was not unhappy  Daylesford
could see that ; in fact she was infinitely
happier than when she left home in the morning.
He resolved to ask her for an explanation
of Mr. Simonds's strange manner before he
returned to London. Chance favoured him,

but not until late in the evenings when Miss
Everilda, whose headache had grown worse
retired to her own room.

Now, Polly,' said Daylesford, '' as we are
at last alone, do help me to understand some
things which are puzzling me.'

Polly looked very uneasy.

'Don't mind talking plainly to me, dear
Polly,' said he ; 'I am your brother, and I
want to be a good one. You may always
come to me in full confidence that I will do my
best to serve you.'

Thank you,' replied Polly, ' I am sure you
would. I trust you entirely. Miss Everilda is
kindness itself, but she takes such odd fancies,
and such sudden ones too.'

I can imagine it. Polly, do explain why
Mr. Simonds's manner changed so when he
heard my name.'

Polly looked much embarrassed, but at last
said, ' I thought you would know that  that
Zeph would have told you herself. Poor
fellow, he was very much attached to her.'

Daylesforcl was full of astonishment at his
own stupidity ; he saw the whole situation in a
moment, and wondered why he had not seen it
at a glance. Of course that was the reason,
and that was why Zeph had refused to come to
Seaton Court. She had known that she should
meet Mr. Simonds if she did. ' I might have
known,' thought he ; ' of course I might have
known.'

But when he is so obviously cured of his
attachment to your sister,' began Daylesford 
Polly blushing all the while like any rose, for
she could not but see what he meant  ' he
might surely be able to endure my presence
without showing so many signs of dislike. It
is not as if she had refused or deserted him for
my sake.' Polly hung her head. ' He is
a very good fellow,' continued Daylesford,
cheerily, ' and very much in love with you.'

Poor doubting Polly looked up in a
moment, ' Do you really think so, Godfrey ? '
she asked eagerly. ' He has behaved very
strangely to me lately.'

That's nothing. I am certain he is in love
with you, and if his conduct has been strange,
it is because he has been jealous of your Mr.
Cuthbert that's all'

Perhaps it is ; and, after all, if he was
angry about lira it was natural enough ; he
thought he was going to be treated in the same
way again.'

Daylesford started ; her words fell on him
like a heavy blow. Had Zeph jilted this man
for the sake of one who was richer  for himself
. Polly's words could bear no other interpretation.
And he had never known it !

This explained everything. Not only did it
account for Mr. Simonds's jealousy of Mr. Cuthbert
and indignation when he thought he saw
Polly going the same way as her sister, but it
also explained Zeph's extreme reluctance to pay
this visit ; and, alas ! it also explained her

coldness to himself. He had often thought her

<

cold  often longed for some sign of her love,
and now the reason why she never gave him
any such sign was evident. She felt no particular

affection for him  she had married him
for his wealth and position ; she felt a certain
amount of kindness and much gratitude to him,
but her heart was given to another.

Daylesford was sitting in a dark corner by
the fire, or Polly, preoccupied though she was
with her own feelings, must have observed the
change that had come over him. ' Godfrey,'
said she timidly, ' you are sure you think that
he cares for me ? '

Daylesford started. ' I do. I am sure he
does,' he said.

Then if Miss Everilda talks to you about
him  she is sure to do so, I think  please
make her understand that it is wrong of her to
encourage Mr. Cuthbert so much, for I don't
care for him. I don't want him to come here,
and she is always asking him, and she won't
ask John.'

You had better tell her a little about Mr-simmonds's
past history,' said Daylesford, making
a great effort to be calm and reasonable for
Polly's sake ; ' about his affection for Zeph, I

mean. You see, as she is ignorant of that, she
naturally misjudges him. Tell her, and she
will understand his behaviour ; it is quite
natural under the circumstances.'

Quite,' replied Polly, emphatically, and her
answer was another anguish to him.

He must cut this short  he could not bear
it ; it was even a strain on his honour. He
was so tempted to ask Polly when this affair
with Simonds had happened, and if it had been
during the latter part of the time when he himself
had known his wife as Zeph Treherne. He
feared that it was so  he was almost certain of
it. He longed for complete certainty either
one way or the other. Polly could give it to
him, and doubtless would do so, but he must
not ask her. He must seek foi* no explanation
except from Zeph.

I want to write a letter,' said he ; ' I had
better do it at once. Be happy, Polly ; I will
speak to Miss Everilda ; she will listen to me,
and all will be right, I am sure. I like your

Mr. Simonds, and shall be very glad to welcome
him as a brother-in-law.'

Polly had not expected so much warmth
from him. ' Thank you,' said she, ' if ever
such a thing does come to pass, we must all try
to be happy about it. I don't see why not.
Zeph and he will be able to meet without
minding it, some day. Good-night.' She left
him, but he never wrote that letter, and it was
not a good night to him.

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

IT IS A BAD BUSINESS.'

Theseus. Say what abridgment have you for this evening ?
What mask? What musick ? How shall we beguile
The lazy time if not with some delight ?

Midsummer?' Nights Dream.

And cold hard words have we to deal with now.

K. Browning.

Poor Zeph ! ' said Daylesford to himself, as he
crossed the hall to find her on his return to
London, ' Poor Zeph, it is a bad business ! ' He
had thought about it all through the long cold
journey home. She had married him without
loving him  everything proved it  a thousand
words and looks and deeds  trifles in themselves,
but a heavy weight of evidence when
taken in combination with what Polly had so
unwittingly let fall the night before  all confirmed
the cruel fact. She had perhaps expected

that love would grow up of its own
accord after marriage, but alas, she had, week
by week, cared for him less. That is what
he thought all day long as he was making his
way to her over the frost-bitten marshes and
meadow lands through which the train hurried
him so fast. There was little enough to be
done now, he feared, beyond trying to make
the best of things.

He entered the room in a very softened
state of mind. Agnes was sitting by his wife's
side. He had not expected that Agnes would
be there. The sight of her reminded him of
the day when their visit to Seaton Court was
under discussion. He hated the memory of it,
and he greeted both the girls much more coldly
than he was aware of.

How is Polly ? ' asked Agnes.

'And Miss Everilda?' added Zeph, and
there their interest ceased. He supposed that
they both felt it was safer not to ask questions.
And yet Zeph knew Hon: Miss Everilda's letter
that some man was on the point of asking her

sister Polly in marriage  it was odd that she
did not want to hear something about him.
She had professed entire ignorance on the subject
when her cousin's letter came ; but she
could not have been so ignorant as she pretended
 she must have known it was John
Simonds, or she would surely show some curiosity
now. Agnes, too, had been tutored, and
was equally silent. He began to dislike Agnes.
He looked round the room  it was full of
material warmth and comfort  what other
warmth or comfort was there ? None I It
was contrary to his nature to let himself be
condemned to pass through life in this dreary,
half-hearted way without making some effort
to regain peace of mind, and even happiness.
He rapidly decided that he would speak plainly
to Zeph. He would tell her all he knew, and
thought, and feared, and ask for explanation
where explanation was needed. Surely by
means of honesty and forbearance, they might
arrive at some agreement which would enable
them to dwell somewhere on the borderland of

happiness, if they could not penetrate farther.
But what a difficult task it would be to speak
to her ! He would have to ask if she, his
wedded wife, had loved another man when she
went through the ceremony of marriage with
himself, and if she still preferred that man to
him?

How could he say such a thing? How
could they continue to live together if she
owned that it was true ? And yet better say it
now than have it on his mind as long as life
lasted  besides, was it right to have it on his
mind without giving her an opportunity of defending
herself? Yes, he would speak to her,
and soon. This constraint was intolerable to
him.

She was looking at him all this time and
trying to read his thoughts, but he did not
know it. How changed he seemed to be !
How different in his manner ! She had been
afraid that he might be cold to her, and though
anxious to see him again, had half-dreaded

VOL. III. G

return on that account ; for she was firmly
convinced that she had for ever lost his affection.
He had despised her ever since that day
when she had owned that she should like him
to assume the Berkhampstead title. She often
wondered how she could have done so, for in
her heart she admired him for his firmness in refusing
it, but one or two worldly women had
temporarily influenced her for evil, and in one
of her many moments of jealousy of his
brother she had given vent to the fruit of their
counsels. She knew that he could never love
her after that.

His coldness and silence were oppressive ;
and what right had he to be so unforgiving ?
He had never reproached her for what she had
said. She would have liked him much better
if he had. She began to feel very bitter
against him. Before he came, her mind had
been filled with pleasure at the thought of
seeing him again. Now he was with her, and
he could only make disjointed remarks about
the weather, or the fire, or the dog  she was

SO chilled that she could but answer his cold
speeches in their own tone.

He was mentally swearing at Agnes.
What a nuisance her presence was ! He
could not forget that after being in such a
state of delight at the prospect of going to
Seaton Court because of its gaiety, she had
suddenly declared that she did not want to go
because it would be so dull. Polly was worth
hundred of Agnes, and, he was almost afraid,
of Zeph too.

How lovely Zeph looked in the soft lamplight
 he dared not trust himself to look at
her  her love was none of his, and any appearance
of it had been a delusion. And yet
his eyes were drawn to her in spite of himself;
how sad she was beginning to look ! If that
odious Agnes were but away ! How could
Zeph have been so thoughtless as not to know
that he would like to be alone with her ? He
and Zeph had never been separated before ; he
had now been absent for three weeks, and
yet on his return he had to sit and talk

G 2

of indifferent matters because that girl was
there.

Zeph's heart, meanwhile, was hardening
more and more  show silent  how stiff*  how
terribly unkind Godfrey was now ; and she,
poor foolish girl that she was, had been rejoicing
all day because she should so soon see
him ! What was the use of seeing him ?
What was the use of having him back, if
he were always going to look as absent and
indifferent to her as he did now? What a
wretchedly dull evening it was going to be if
it were all like this ! She found herself wishing
he had stayed away a little longer. Agnes
and she had enjoyed their evenings hitherto 
there was always the theatre, if they had no
other engagement.

Godfrey,' said she, yielding to an uncontrollable
feeling of pique, and being for the
moment careless whether she wounded him or
not, 'you know that you have come a day
before we expected you ? '

Oh yes,' he replied, ' I told you I should

stay away till Saturday, but Polly asked me todo
something for her  to go to Alnminster
on Thursday instead of Fridays, that was all 
but in order to have a presentable excuse for
doing it I had to come home a day earlier.
She did not know that, of course, and I did
not think it would make any difference in your
arrangements. I telegraphed this morning.
You got my telegram ? '

'Oh yes, I got your telegram  it made no
difference. We have an engagement for this
evening ; you won't object to being left alone
a little, I am sure ; indeed perhaps you will
prefer it, for you don't seem inclined to talk ? '

What kind of an engagement . What do
you mean, dear . '

I mean a very ordinary sort of engagement,
an engagement to an " at home " Mrs.
Corrie asked us to some time ago.'

Well, you are not bound to go to a thing
of that kind unless you like.'

But we do like. We both enjoy going
out very much, and have a great horror of

being always at home. We have been out
every evening since you went away.'

Then I am sure you will not mind spending
this evening here now that I have come
back.'

But you might like to go yourself '

I ? Oh no, and I don't want you to go
either.'

Zeph looked as if she wanted to press the
point, but he said, ' Stay at home to-night if
you please, I particularly wish it.'

Of course we will stay if you wish it,' said
Zeph. But why should he wish it ? she thought
him ill-tempered and disagreeable.

He was paying very little attention to anything
that passed, but was earnestly thinking
how to find some way of living happily with
her, the woman whom he loved above all.
others. He would speak to her solemnly and.
lovingly, and he would do it at once. He had
the greatest faith in absolute openness.

Dinner came, and dinner at last was ended
it had seemed long, and weighed down by

perpetual restraint. Zeph and Agnes went
away together, and Daylesford said he would
smoke a cigarette and soon follow them. He
did smoke a cigarette, but he did not follow
them immediately. He could have no opportunity
of speaking to Zeph until that sister of
hers was gone to bed ; so he sat thinking how
to begin the conversation, and how best to say
what was so disagreeable to say and to hear.
Time passed unawares, he seemed to himself to
have sat twenty minutes or so, when he looked
at the clock on the mantelpiece and found that
it was nearly eleven. He rose rather wearily ;
he had slept little the night before, and his
journey had tired him. The time had come to
speak to her, but he made his way to the
drawing-room with no alacrity. He detested
his errand  he loved his wife in spite of everything,
and he felt that he was going to torture
her.

The drawing-room was empty ; Zeph and
her sister had gone to bed, then. He went
upstairs ; the door of Zeph's room was open,

and some one was moving about inside. It washer
maid. ' I was just folding up some of Mrs.
Daylesford's things, sir,' said she, ' but I have
done.'

Where is your mistress ? ' said he.

'Didn't Charles tell you, sirs It is very
wrong if he didn't, for I distinctly heard Mrs.
Daylesford leave a message with him. He was
to tell you that she and Miss Agnes Treherne
had gone to Mrs. Corrie's, but that they did
not intend to stay late.'

Gone to Mrs. Corrie's ! ' repeated Dales
who had never felt more astounded in his
life.

Mrs. Lawley, the maid, fixed a critical eye
on him  he perceived it, and recovered himself
in a moment. ' I had forgotten,' said he,
when once I had decided not to go myself, I
thought no more about it.'

He went downstairs to wait for them. The
lamps were already extinguished. He relighted
one, and drew a chair to the fire. He wanted
no light  he was not going to do anything.

He could not have believed that his wife
would disregard his request and go out. Had
she intended to do so even while she seemed
to be renouncing the pleasure she coveted ?
It must surely have been a sudden thought.
Perhaps that sister of hers had made her go ;
but how could Zeph leave the house without a
word ?

He sat for two hours, growing more and
more angry. ' They must come soon, now,' he
thought, but it was after one o'clock before
he heard the muffled sounds which betokened
their arrival. He did not move fi'om his chair
he felt that Zeph's conduct was outrageous.
When a minute or two had gone by, the servant
must have told her that his master was
still in the drawing-room, for she came in
quickly, with the air of a person who had for
the last three or four hours been so feted, flattered,
and caressed by those with whom her
time had been spent, that all such trifles as had
occupied her mind before she left home were
completely driven out of it. She advanced to

her husband's side with a step in which a trace
of dancing Angered  her hair lay carelessly
about her temples as if it had been blown there
while she was whirling round in the dance 
her manner was light and buoyant. Where
was the heavy-hearted woman whom he had
sat with such a short while before ?

You sitting up, Godfrey ? ' said she, ' I am
so sorry ! You got my message, I hope ? '
Her tone was as careless as her manner. ' * She
did not seem the least ashamed of what she
had done  he felt more and more indignant.

When I went up to bed I heard what you
had done, but not till then,' said he, ' and I
must say that I think you ought not to have
gone out when I so specially requested you to
stay at home.'

'It was a sudden thought. We fully
intended to stay at home, I assure you ; I
said we would when you asked us to do so
before dinner  but after dinner when you
stayed away such an immense time, and seemed
to care so very little for our society, we did

think that we might just as well be enjoying
ourselves at Mrs. Corrie's, as sitting boring
ourselves to death where we where  that
was all'

Well, I think you behaved extremely ill
to me, and I hope you will never do such a
thing again ! ' observed Daylesford, haughtily.

Zeph was nettled by his tone, and there
was another thing which irritated her. In
order to excuse herself she had just been
obliged to call back to her remembrance what
had occurred before she left home, and the
contempt for her society which he had shown
by spending all the evening in the dining-room
once more roused her anger.

'I should never have dreamed of going, if
you had come and sat with us,' said she. ' Of
course not : but I was alone with Agnes, and we
both like going out much better than sitting
alone ; and besides '

Let us say no more about it, Zeph,' said
he. ' Only never treat me so cavalierly again.
You behaved in a way that was far from

courteous, and I think I have a right to expect

courtesy from you, if ' he checked himself,

and did not complete that unpromising sentence.


Zeph was bewildered : the transition from
a brilliant ball-room where she had been
admired by all, to a dimly-lighted apartment
with the presence of a man privileged to scold
her, and disposed to avail himself of his privilege,
struck her as singularly disagreeable. If
Godfrey were going to be always like this,
dull, unloving, and silent unless he had some
fault to find with her, she had little enough to
look forward to. ' I will not do it again,' she
said coldly ; ' I should not have done it this
time if you had behaved differently ; and then
I had Agnes to think of  you forget that!
You are always thinking of what your brother
will like  why should not I sometimes do the
same by my sister ? '

This was a most unfortunate speech  it
reminded Daylesford of a day which he desired
to forget for ever  the day when he and his

wife had had their only quarrel. It was
cruelly unfortunate so far as Zeph was concerned,
for she intended no revival of the
attack she had then made  her feeling on that
subject had entirely changed  she was only
pointing her sentence. It embittered her husband
terribly, and for some time it required all
his self-control to make allowance for her  she
was speaking in anger, he told himself at last
she did not mean it, he was sure.

I am very tired,' said Zeph, ' if you have
nothing more to say I think I shall go to bed.'

It was late  he was very sorry for her, and
yet now was the time to say all that was on his
mind  he could not wait until another day. ' I
have more to say,' he replied. 'Do you think
you can bear to sit up a little longer? It is
very important that you and I should understand
each other.'

Indeed it is, Godfrey,' she said sadly, and
tears rose to her eyes as she spoke. She had
been standing all this time  he brought her a
chair and would have liked to take her in his

arms and speak to her lovingly, heart by heart,
for he pitied her so when she was subdued and
gentle, and he loved her so at all times, but
there was something so cold and strange and
unloving about her  except at the rare moments
when she showed feeling  that he dared
not. After all, when she did show feeling it
was only feeling for herself, or, at the most,
gratitude to him for mere worldly benefits, and
if he did show any love for her, ten to one but
she would repel it. She had never loved him
she had scarcely even made any pretence of
it, and when the truth which was going to be
told was told, he would hear this from her own
lips.

And now, Zeph,' said he, ' I want to
know why you have never told me anything
about Mr. John Simonds ? '

Zeph sighed audibly. ' Ought I to have
done so ? ' she asked very humbly.

I don't know. I am not well-informed
on the subject, and I have refrained from asking
any questions except from yourself, but I

could not avoid hearing hints. If you had an
offer of marriage from him, and all but, or
quite accepted him within a few wrecks of the
time when you accepted me  perhaps even
within a few days  I should say that there can
be no doubt of its being your duty to name
such a fact to me.'

Not within a few days ! ' exclaimed Zeph,
indignantly.

Well, do you mind telling me a little
about it ? Will you tell me when something occurred
which seems to have furnished him with
a grievance against you, and makes you desirous
to avoid seeing him ? I don't wish to force
you to talk about things that are disagreeable
to you, but I must say I do not like the idea of
my wife being, as it were, afraid to see any one.'

I will tell you everything,' replied Zeph.
She was very pale now, but she looked boldly
in his face, and he gazed at her for a moment
with affectionate admiration, for he felt assured
that, cost her what it might, no word would
pass her lips that was not absolutely true.

I think I would rather answer questions
than tell you a long story; ask me anything
you wish to know, and I will answer you,' said
she.

You are sure you don't mind ? ' said he,
for he began to think he was pressing her very
hardly.

I am sure I do mind, but as it has come to
this, we must go on. Ask what you like  I
will answer all your questions.'

Thank you. I won't ask many. I understand
Mr. Simonds was known to you and your
family when you were a child ; when did he
first become attached to you ? '

I don't know,' she answered quietly, but
very sadly, ' he loved me from the very first.
He first offered to me when I was sixteen.'

And what did you do ? '

Oh, I was a child, but he knew I liked
him better than any one else ; then he went
away for three years.'

And when did he come back ? '

The day after you and I first met.'

And he renewed his offer ? '
Yes, he renewed his offer.' Zeph spoke
almost scornfully  John was not the kind of
man to change his mind !

And you ? You didn't accept him ? '
No, I could not quite make up my mind.'
Not after having had three years to think
about it ? '

No, not even after having had three years,'
said she, bitterly. ' I asked him for a few days
more.'

Giving him hope ? '
Yes, giving him hope.'
And then when the few days were over ? '
I asked for another week.'
He could not think you were very anxious
to accept him when you asked for so many
delays,' said Daylesford, who was beginning to
think that Mr. John Simonds had been posing
as a man with a grievance with very little
cause.

But Zeph began to weep, and said, ' Oh
yes, he must have expected me to accept him

VOL. III. H

how could he help expecting it ? I always led
him to hope. Godfrey, don't judge me too
severely ; I could not bear to refuse him,
and yet so many things made me feel that I
could not be happy with him  I am not the
kind of girl to make a poor man happy, and
I knew it.'

'Was that your only reason for refusing
him ? ' he asked. ' You loved him ? '

She could not raise her eyes from the
ground, but she would not deny the truth, and
as soon as her voice would obey her, she said
Yes.'

You loved him and refused him .? '

I did it as much for his sake as my own.
I should not have made him happy. Godfrey,
you need say and think no more about John
Simonds  in the way of pity, I mean ; you
have not told me, but I suppose Polly is going
to marry him  that will be the end of it all  
she will make him far happier than I could
have done  she is worth fifty of me.'

To her great distress, Daylesford did not

gainsay her. He was silent for a while, and
then said, ' I suppose Mr. Simonds had not the
mastership when he spoke to you P '

'Yes, he had,' answered Zeph, who felt
shame closing her in on every side.

Then why did you not marry him, when
you loved him? And how could you marry
me ? You never loved me, Zeph.'

Zeph, miserable girl that she was, longed
to fall on her knees and say, ' I did not love
you when I married you, I own it with shame,
but I do love you now, so help me God, I do
love you now ! ' These very words had already
framed themselves in her mind  could
she summon up courage to utter them ? How
hard it was to say anything at all when he
looked so cold and stern. How doubly hard
to say such a thing as that now, for his love
was extinct ! Before she had braced up her
nerves to do it, he had made it impossible by
saying, ' Poor Zeph, you have turned life into
a very bitter thing for both of us ! I have felt
that there was something wrong about our

h2

marriage from the very first, and now I suppose
it must be wrong to the end ! '

Oh no, no ! ' exclaimed Zeph, making a
great effort. ' We must '

What can we do that can alter the cruel
fact ? You never loved me  you loved another
man ! You would have married him if
he had not been poor. What a curse money
is ! It sucks the honour out of every one and
everything ! '

Zeph was so stung by the contempt of his
words and tone, and by seeing how completely
his love had slipped away from her, that she
sprang to her feet and passionately exclaimed,
Don't blame me too much ! You have no
right to take this tone with me. After all, my
conduct was not worse than your own ! It
was not so bad ! I don't think it was so bad
by a thousand degrees ! When you told me
you loved me you were actually living with a
woman whom you must have said you loved,
or, I think, bad as she was, she would not have
been here ! '

You are partly mistaken,' said Daylesford,
as soon as he recovered the shock of finding
that she knew this,  ' My conduct was bad,
but not quite so bad as you think. I struggled
against my love for you, and avoided you for a
long time because I wanted to be faithful to
her. When I offered to you she had left my
house for some time, and though I took steps
to find out where she was, I did not succeed in
doing so until it was too late.'

'Do you regret that?' enquired Zeph, bitterly.


Don't ask me,' said he, sadly, ' at all events
she loved me.'

Horrible creature ! ' exclaimed Zeph, with
great repugnance, ' I cannot bear to hear of
her ! It makes me miserable to think of your
having lived in that way  it always has made
me miserable ! '

I will not allow you to call her names,'
said Daylesford, warmly. ' She was a noble
good woman ; God bless her, always ! She
lived with me because she loved me, poor girl

you lived with me without loving me ; she
dispensed with the sacrament of marriage 
you profaned it ! You seem to think that
there is no wickedness in profaning it, and a
great deal in dispensing with it altogether. I
do not agree with you  both courses are
wrong, but I know which I consider the worst.
You came to my home pretending to feel a
wife's love for me, while all your love was
given to another man  your life was a lie  it
was a thousand times  noy a million times
more wicked than anything poor Hester ever
did 1 She is a noble woman, and I sincerely
wish I had never '

Don't say it ! ' interrupted Zeph, in an
agony of distress, 'I entreat you not to say
that you wish you had never parted from her.
This is terrible ! Godfrey, I will try to be more
what you wish  don't make me feel your scorn
too much.'

We must both try to be different, Zeph,'
said he, earnestly. ' Our lives have to be
passed together, even though love be absent.'

She raised her aching eyes to his, and painfully

endeavoured to learn the meaning of his
words. Did he mean that love for her was
now, and for ever would be, absent from his
heart ? Alas for her if it were so, for she
could never be indifferent to its loss ! She
could read nothiuo- and dared to ask nothing.
What was she that she should venture to make
such enquiries ? How could she hope for such
a good gift ? She never must hope for it  his
words of scorn still rang in her ears, and would
ring for ever.

'I will go now,' said she, hopelessly and
wearily ; and before he could answer her, she
had risen to her feet, gathered up the train of
her long white ball-dress, and, without daring
to look at Daylesford, had quietly left the
room. And he watched her go, paralysed by
what had occurred between them  his heart
seemed turned to stone. All that he could do
was to watch her go, repeating to himself the
while the self same words which had been in
his mind as he went through the hall on his
way to find her on his return home that very
afternoon. ' Poor Zeph ! It is a bad business ! '

He sat until the grey light of morning
began to steal into the room, and then from
very weariness he fell asleep. He awoke with
a clear recollection of all that had occurred to
make him unhappy, and with a consciousness
that the day would have to be lived through
somehow. Zeph did not come down to breakfast,
and he did not go to her room.

She seems to be unusually tired after the
dance ! ' said Agnes ; ' I begin to think that it is
almost a pity we went. Godfrey,' she added,
Zeph says she wishes you would let her go to
Eastbourne, or Bournemouth, or somewhere,
for a week or two with me. She does not like
to ask you herself, I think, and said she wished
I would, for a change of air will do her good.'

Perhaps it will,' said he. 'Of course she
shall go, if she likes.'

He was very glad that she had proposed
this  when she returned they would be able to
begin their lives afresh, and some day perhaps
but he could not finish that thought.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

THE STUDIO.

Worse and worse ; doubts and incredulity,
They make me mad.  Middleton's Witches.

Daylesford was not a man to yield to misery
without making an effort to escape from it ;
but what was he to do ? It was in vain to
hope for any change in Zeph, it was in vain to
hope for anything but the blessing of work.
Work would dull the pain of his wounds, and
enable him to feel that there was still something
to live for. But what could he do ? He
could never have a profession  it was too late.
He could not go into Parliament as he would
have liked  family circumstances were an
effectual barrier to that. He was all but
seven-and-twenty, and had a title which he
knew he had no right to assume, estates which

were not his to enjoy, a brother whom he
loved and never could see, and a wife  ah !
that was the bitterest of all  a wife who did
not love him ! It seemed a dreary thing to be
so young and strong and full of vigour, and to
know that the days of a man's life were threescore
and ten, and that so many of his own
were yet to come. Half of the years he had
passed had been years of youth and semi-unconsciousness,
all that were to follow would
be full of sorrow and regret, until at last the
sleep of Death would bring rest and peace.
How was the time which lay before him to be
passed by one who had such a miserably poor
equipment to help him to pass it happily?
He had loved his brother so much that while
they remained together he had never cared to
have any other friend. Since they had been
separated, Daylesford had made some friends,
but none with whom he was thoroughly intimate.
He must work and live on alone. But
how was he to work  how was a man who
could never enter into any profession to find

work in which he could steep himself so completely
that the tormenting thoughts which
Averse always presenting themselves would discover
few moments when they could be freely
entertained ? He did not torment himself
about Zeph alone, conscience began to be
busy, and he remembered how he had treated
Hester Langdale. His life was now bare of
love. Who could have loved him more truly
and unselfishly than she ? He had done a
cruel wrong to her, and now he was reaping
his just reward. His punishment was an exceedingly
bitter one, but he owned that it was
his due.

Perhaps it was the memory of Hester
Langdale which, after a while, made his
thoughts revert to the mornings which had
been so happy and so fully occupied when he
worked by her side at his drawings. She had
always encouraged him to cultivate his talent,
and had assured him that all he wanted was
perseverance. He had usually given up when
he got into any difficulty, and she had always

told him that that was just the time to go on.
He had a strong love of art ; perhaps if he
began to work at it again it might prove a
solace. He gathered together his materials
and began to paint in earnest. That is, he tried
to do so, for he could not get on, something
was amiss, something was always wanting.
It was Hester's never-failing encouragement
which was wanting ; he recognised that at last,
and then the doubt assailed him  perhaps in
her pity and kindness she had encouraged him
far beyond his deserts  possibly he had no
talent whatsoever.

He took his poor faulty attempts to an
artist friend and said, ' Tell me what to do. Is
my work hopelessly bad, or is it worth while to
go on ? '

Of course you must go on ; there is a
great deal of merit in your work, but you want
knowledge, your drawing is imperfect ; you
want training, you ought to draw the figure.
Get a good model, and learn to draw the
figure  that is, if you must draw, though why

you who have plenty of money should want to
enter into all the worry and misery of an
artist's life, Heaven only knows ! ' Daylesford
knew, so he hired a big studio, and rather enjoyed
furnishing it artistically, and providing
himself with casts and everything else he
seemed to think he required. What sumptuous
provision he did make, and what magnificent
works have been produced at the cost of a few
shillings ! He was glad he had thought of this
occupation ; it gave a slight zest to an existence
which was otherwise devoid of all interest. He
prevailed on a very good artist to superintend
his labours a little, and as he himself gave the
whole of his time to drawing, he soon began to
make progress.

Two months passed, Zeph was still at
Bournemouth. Once he went down there to
see her. He did not work so well for some
days after this, it stirred up many a sorrow
which had been partly dulled by hard labour.
He wrote to her. She wrote him dutiful
letters telling him what she and Agnes said and

did, and sometimes these letters were almost
affectionate.  Poor child, she is trying to fulfil
her vows,' thought Daylesford, ' but nothing
will make her love me,' and he buried himself
in work again. At last she came home, and
Agnes repaired to Lome Gardens. He was
very glad when Zeph came back, though she,
who was now never at ease in his presence,
doubted and feared lest hers should only
trouble him. He had told her about his
studio in his letters, but she had not understood
from them how large a part it now played
in the scheme of his life.

You never come home to luncheon, now,'
she said one evening.

Fo,' replied Daylesford, ' I have no time
to come. Besides, I can get as much as I
want at the studio.'

'You seem to be very tired to-night,' she
said kindly.

Yes, I stand the whole day. I do wonder
how those professional men can do it so easily.'

How do you know that they do it easily ? '

They must. I see some of them about in
the evenings at different places, and they are
all men who are working hard during the day.
I could not do it ; I get quite enough standing
during the day without having to stand about
in people's hot rooms half the night.'

But you will have to go out ; you cannot
shut yourself up altogether.'

I don't mind dining out, for one must dine
somewhere, but I will not go to the miserable
things that people are pleased to call " receptions."
'

He saw that she looked disappointed, and
added, ' Of course I don't want to condemn
you to seclusion, for the sake of my poor
attempts at painting ; when you really want
me very much to go anywhere with you, I
will  and you can go out alone sometimes,
can't you ? '

This was kind enough as far as intention
went, but the first time she put him to the test
unnecessarily, perhaps on an occasion when
she could easily have gone alone  he showed

much reluctance. She never asked him to go
out to evening-parties again, but she had so
little pleasure or happiness in her own home
that she could not forego the chance of finding
a little out of it, and she went constantly. He
did not seem to object. She often wished he
would object ; anything would have been
better than this passive indifference. She believed
that she might say or do what she
chose, provided she abstained from saying anything
against his brother, did not worry him
to go to some evening party when he had
already dined out and wanted to go home,
and did not intrude on him in his studio.

That studio seemed to be a perfect delight
to him. He went to it directly after breakfast.
He never returned till dinner, and was not
infrequently late for that. If she asked him
where he had been all day, he said, ' You
know, dear ; at the studio.'

Have you never left it ? ' she sometimes

asked.

No ; I don't want to leave it,' he replied.

Don't you want exercise ? '

I get quite enough of that in walking
backwards and forwards to the studio.'

The studio  the studio  she could not help
thinking that he repeated the word oftener
than was needful, on purpose. She hated the
very name of it.

Do you never want to see any one . You
must tire of being alone.'

I am working so hard that I have no time
to remember that there is any one whom I
could want to see. You don't know what an
engrossing thing work is ! '

Unhappily for her, she did ; he had
already taught her. She detested work.
Here was Godfrey enjoying life merely because
he could stand all day long at his painting, and
enjoying it so much that he never seemed to
think how very unhappily they were living together
 it never appeared to make the least
difference to him that they should live as they
did, only exchanging a few careless words
when they met, and meeting so seldom tha

VOL. III. I

they might, in reality, be said to be almost
living apart. For some months, now, their life
had been on this wise. He had come home so
tired that he never seemed able to enter into
any conversation. If she spoke he answered
her, of course, but only with half his mind, and,
as she thought, in a duty manner. (Thus did
she often interpret his constraint.) She had
soon taken offence at this, and had henceforth
said as little as possible. They had dined in
comparative silence, and then Zeph had gone
away to some evening party  sometimes with
a friend, more frequently alone  and Dales
weary with his long day's work, had
fallen asleep in his chair and gone to bed long
before his wife's return. Once or twice it had
happened that the husband who had some
piece of work on hand in which he was specially
interested, had got up unusually early to
go off to his studio to get on with it, and had,
as he went down, fresh from a long night's
rest, met on the stairs his young wife, looking
as people do look after a night's dancing. The

morning sun streamed in on her pale face, and
he could not help mentally comparing her appearance
with that of the faded and crumpled
flowers which he saw hanging about the front
of her dress. ' Zeph ! ' he had exclaimed, in a
tone of mild remonstrance and wonder, but she
had fancied she detected a good deal of ill-suppressed
contempt in it  ' you are just
coming home as I am going out ! '

She had answered briefly, with downcast
eyes, and had glided past him as quickly as she
could, hiding her torn dress, turning away her
pale face, and trying to hide her shame that he
should see her at such a time. It was his own
fault  she often told herself so. It was very
certain that she would not have cared to live
this life of perpetual gaiety, if he had cared to
have her at home with him. He had made
her what she was  a creature who lived only
for dress and society. That studio was the
misery of her life ! It took him away from her.
It made him happy when he was away from
her  it was the one thing for which he lived.

I 2

It was only a mile and a half off  he had never
asked her to go and see it.

What is your studio like ? ' she said one
day. She was pining to see it.

Oh, it is just like any other studio,' he
answered carelessly. ' They are all very much
alike.'

Describe it a little,' she said, hoping that
he would find it easier to ask her to go and see
it for herself.

But no ! He replied at once, ' It is hung
with some rather fine tapestry, and there are
one or two good bits of old furniture, but there
is nothing particular to describe.'

I should like to see it, Godfrey,' she said,
making a great effort. ' Could I ? '

Of course you could ; I had no idea that
you would be interested in it ; but I should like
to show it to you, if you care to see it.'

Then I will go with you tomorrow, or
perhaps drop in later.'

Oh, you must not do that. You must goat
a fixed time, for Skirrow is painting therewith

me just now ; we are both working from
the same model.'

Bnt I should not stay long, I know that
time is valuable, I would scarcely interrupt him
at all;

You couldn't go when he was really at
work,' said Daylesford, decidedly ; he knew a
great deal more about artists' ways than Zepli
did ; ' I will arrange a time when you can come.'

Zeph said no more. She could not conceive
why he and Mr. Skirrow should mind
being interrupted for five minutes or so. That
was quite as long as she should have cared to
stay. She would just have gone in and looked
round and gone away again. In fact, all that
she had wished to ascertain was whether
Daylesford objected to her going or not. She
said no more. It was evident that he did.
She had a dread which she hardly admitted to
herself  a terrible haunting dread. Hester
Langdale had been an artist. She and Godfrey
had always painted together before, they were
perhaps painting together now ! This fear had

been in her mind for some time  it was rapidly
becoming a certainty. She grew pale and thin,
and could neither eat nor sleep. Daylesford's
studio was in Somerset Place, Chelsea. Zeph
knew that, but did not know the number.
What is the number of your house in Chelsea ? '
she said, one day  she would not use the obnoxious
word, studio  she tried to speak as
carelessly as she could.

'I am sure I don't know, dear,' said he,
with real carelessness  hers, alas, had been a
very poor imitation of it. Her jealousy flamed
up at once ; he must know the number of his
own studio ! Why did he not wish to tell it to
her?

Has any one ever used it to paint in before ? '
she asked, for her woman's wit had suggested
something to her.

Oh dear yes ! ' he replied. ' Skirrow had
it last year, that is how I got to know of it.'

Oh,' said Zeph, and her remark did not
appear to be very connected, but she said no
more. As soon as he was gone she began to

search for old catalogues of the Royal Academy,
to see if that address was given as Mr. Skirrow's,
and at once had the satisfaction of finding
Skirrow, Peter Charles, 17 Somerset Place,
Chelsea, S.W.'

So far so good, but perhaps Mr. Skirrow
was not there quite so much as Godfrey seemed
to wish her to believe. Perhaps there were
days when he never went near the place.
Hester Langdale could paint too  Daylesford
no longer loved his wife  that scheming woman
might have found out where he was, and have
used her opportunity, and be trying to win him
back again.

That very day Zeph found some excuse for
driving twice through Somerset Place. No. 17
consisted only of a room or two. One of them
was a very large one, with a great overgrown
window which ran up into the roof, and there
were two or three dwelling-rooms besides. It
was not a house which possessed any graces of
construction, it meant work and business, the
red brick of its walls made it look cheerful, but

Zeph gazed on it as the grave of all her hopes.
She dared not enter. She did not know who
did enter. She must not linger in the street.
She had already, perhaps, aroused her coachman's
suspicions by requiring him to drive
through the street slowly. It was not a street
to linger in for the sake of enjoying the pleasures
of sight. Small houses made up one side
of it, with the studio breaking in on their
symmetry, and small houses and small shops
repeated themselves on the other. And yet
Zeph had not seen half so much of this street
as she wanted. Next morning, no sooner
had Daylesford left the house than she dressed
herself plainly, put on a thick veil, and
walked down to Chelsea.

With much trepidation she suddenly found
herself in Somerset Place, and was just in time
to see a girl standing at the door of JSFo. 17  a
young girl dressed in olive-green.

Zeph's heart stood still. She felt that this
was Hester Langdale  that which she had
greatly feared had come upon her. The girl's

back was turned, Zeph could not see her face,
but her figure was young, graceful, and tall,
and she tripped lightly into the house as soon
as the door was opened, as if her feet were
familiar with the way. Zeph's feet failed her
her heart failed her still more, she caught
hold of some palings and stood supporting herself
by them. She must get home somehow.

Want a cab, miss ? ' asked a hansom
cabman, who had been watching her uncertain
demeanour for some time. Zeph felt as if
Heaven had still some kindness for her. She
got home at last, crept upstairs, and locked
herself in her own room to make herself miserable
all the rest of the day. ' I am not going
downstairs, Lawley,' said she in the evening.'
I don't want any dinner, my head aches  it
has ached all day.'

Will you have it served upstairs ? ' suggested
Lawley. ' Mr. Daylesford is not coming
back to dinner.'

Zeph shook her head  what Lawley had
said did not stimulate her appetite. ' How do

you know Mr. Daylesford is not coming back?*
she asked.

Some one has brought a message. I am
not sure who it was. Shall I ask, ma'am ? '

No, don't ask. Why should you ? it
makes no difference ; and don't bring any
dinner here, I want none.'

Zeph was ill that day, but she was much
more ill the next; however, nothing could
keep her at home. This time she took a
hansom all the way from her own door, and
when she reached the studio she bade the man
drive up and down Somerset Place until further
orders. Then she thrust herself back into the
corner as much out of sight as possible, and
-waited and watched. She saw no one, but
presently began to be afraid that her husband
would hear the sound of the hansom and lookout.
Cabs were not unknown in Somerset
Place, but they were comparatively rare. She
dismissed hers and began to walk. She passed
the studio, and went to the end of the street.
When she turned round she saw that the same

girl had approached from a side street and was
now walking about fifty yards in front of her
towards No. 17. She wore the same olive-green
dress, and hat  Zeph recognised it in a
moment, and pressed forward to overtake her.
It was a cap rather than a hat which covered
this girl's head  a cap like that worn by
Raphael in his portrait of himself, and beneath
it was a thick mass of crisp, wavy, bronze-red
hair which sparkled in the sunlight. Zeph
could not help looking at it, could not deny
that it was beautiful, and that this creature
whom she instinctively hated carried her head
like a queen, and walked with an easy grace
the like of which she herself had never yet
seen. Zeph was gaining on her rapidly when
she remembered that this girl would ring or
knock at No. 17, and that it was quite within
the bounds of possibility that Godfrey himself
might open the door for her. She turned
back at once, but looked round continually.
She was soon glad that she had turned back,
for who should appear from one of the houses

near but Dr. Simonds  John's father. She had
never seen him since her marriage  how odd
it was that she should see him here. What
was still more odd was, that the olive-green
girl, who was, as Zeph believed, none other
than Hester Langdale, was acquainted with
him too. With much show of surprise at thus
meeting him, she stopped and held out her
hand. The doctor seemed pleased to see her ;
they talked for a few minutes, and then she
said something anxiously, which Zeph could
easily interpret as a request to know the time,
for the doctor pulled out his watch and showed
it to her, on which, with the quick movements
of one who knows that she is too late for
an appointment, she sprang up the steps, and
stood there exchanging last words with the
doctor until the door was opened. She was
admitted without a moment's hesitation.

Zeph was so astounded that she entirely
forgot that she ought not to let Dr. Simonds
see her ; but this lapse of memory cost her
little. He came quickly towards her ; she was

still standing by the window of an oil-shop,
pretending to be struck by some of its unattractive
contents, when the doctor walked past
her without so much as being aware that anyone
was there. This danger being over, Zeph
ventured to look once more at No. 17. It was
to be her last look, for she was now going
home ; she had seen enough  God help her 
and must get home. Her husband was just
coming out, and his face was set towards her.

She darted into the oil-shop. ' I want  I
want  ' said she  ' Oh, a box of matches.'
She was thankful for this happy thought. But
while the showman was getting her some
matches of a superior and lady-ike make,
Daylesford appeared in the doorway, which was
surrounded by dangling festoons of blacking-brushes,
and began to try to pierce his way
inside. Zeph hastily retreated behind a huge
tower near the end of the shop built of
bundles of firewood. This effectually concealed
her, but her heart was beatings
violently that she was forced to sit down on

an unopened cask of cranberries. If Godfrey
came round the fortification behind which she
had retreated she was for ever undone.

'I have just discovered that I am out of
turpentine, can you let me have some H ' said
he. What a dear voice it was !

Turns,' said the master of the shop
with a majestic wave of the hand to an
underling ; he himself preferred to wait on
the beautiful young lady who was the first
comer.

I had rather not have the very commonest
kind,' said Daylesford. ' Have you a
better kind ? Can I see it ? '

Zeph trembled in every limb, for he seemed
to be moving towards her, but he came no
nearer, and soon he had taken his turpentine
and was gone. He was gone, but she dared
not leave the shop for some minutes. She
paid for her matches, and began to speak to a
child who was sitting on the floor in a corner
with a cat in her arms. The child made no
response to Zeph's advances. ' I wouldn't take

much notice of her, Miss,' said the father, ' she
is not altogether well. She's sickening for
something  that's why she's so cross.'

What is it? ' asked Zeph, in much alarm.

Oh we hope it's nothing worse than the
measles, but she's very red.'

Zeph thought it wise to go, and was soon
out of the shop. She glanced uneasily up the
street. Daylesford had disappeared  he was
once more within those hateful brick walls,
and she must go home. She set out at once,
bemoaning the futility of her morning's work.
Never again would she haunt Somerset Place !
What had she gained by doing it now ?
A sight that had made her wretched, and
an opportunity of sowing the seeds of some
illness.

Daylesford came home late.

You are late ! ' exclaimed Zeph, with some
severity.

I am afraid I am. I have been in a difficulty
with my work. I cannot get on half so
well when Skirrow does not come.'

Doesn't he always come ? ' said Zeph,
eagerly. ' Has he not been there to-day ? '

'No, nor yesterday either. When he is
busy at home with work that is important, he
very often does stay away.'

Zeph had been sure of it before, and yet
now that she heard it from his own lips it
seemed to overwhelm her.

You look ill, dear,' said he, with much
concern ; ' I hope '

Never mind me,' replied Zeph, coldly.
'It is nothing! I don't wish you to think of
me.'

He looked at her with eyes full of pain and
wonder. She saw it and hastened to add, ' I
am not ill  it is the heat ' Then after a pause
she added, ' Does any one ever come to the
studio besides Mr. Skirrow ? Any visitors I
mean ? '

No, never,' he replied. ' Never by any
chance.'

He had denied it. And yet that very day
she had seen that girl arrayed in olive-green

entering the studio door with all the familiarity
of hon[ custom. She had never until now
believed it possible that her husband could
utter a falsehood.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE Olive-green CAP.

Begone,
Leave me without reply, this is the last
Of all our meeting.  Pilaster.

Hear me forswear his roof by night,

His bread and salt by day,
His talking at the wood-fire hearth.

His greetings by the way.  E. Barrett Browning.

I AM thinking of running over to Paris fora
day or two to see the Salon,' said Daylesford,
one evening ; ' Skirrow wants me to study the
pictures.'

Is he going too ? ' enquired Zeph.

Skirrow ? Oh no, not yet at least  he is
too busy.'

Zeph's heart filled with uneasiness in a
moment. ' Am I to go ? ' she asked, with
a lurking hope that he would say yes.

I think you had much better not ; you do

not look equal to the exertion, and as I am not
intending to stay more than four or five days, it
would be all fatigue. Ask your sister to stay
with you while you are alone, and be as quiet
as you can.'

He meant, ' go to as few parties as possible,'
 but he had no need to advise that  for
the last three weeks or more Zeph had refused
all invitations except such as he himself was
willing to accept. As for being quiet in any
other sense, how could she obey him . What
did he imagine her to be made of? And why
should he provide her with a companion now,
she wondered ; surely by this time she was
accustomed to being alone . She spent most
of her time in silence, thinking of these
and other, and still more bitter grievances.
Daylesford pitied her from the bottom of his
heart, but he could say nothing to comfort her
she repelled all his advances.

He went to Paris, and Zeph went to Lome
Gardens to ask Agnes to come and stay with

her while he was away.

%i

k2

My dear Zeph, you must be going to far
too many parties, or you would not be so pale.
If you don't take care you will make yourself
look quite ill and old said Agnes.

I don't care if I do,' replied Zeph, ' why
should I ? '

'What do you mean?' asked honest Agnes,
amazed to hear such words from her sister.
Are you unhappy about anything ? '

She looked so sincerely distressed that Zephyrs
recalled to her senses, and said, 'Yes; I
should have liked to go to Paris with Godfrey ;
I want some new dresses. I could have seen
about them while he was looking at his tiresome
old pictures ; but he told me I looked ill,
and must stay at home.'

Agnes was appeased. Zeph went to the
study  she had seen very little of her father
and mother of late, for she had been afraid of
breaking down and telling them how utterly
wretched she was. Mr. Treherne greeted her
with his usual smile.

Do you ever wish you had me back with

you, father? ' she asked, almost hoping that he
would say, ' Yes, my child, I wish you would
come home again.'

He kissed her, and said, ' I like to know
that you are happy. And I have your dear
mother to help me with my work  she never
fails me.'

Mrs. Treherne, who had been sitting all the
morning turning a pen round and round between
her finger and thumb, and waiting till
he gave her something to do, looked delighted,
and said, ' Zeph, have you read the splendid
review of your father's book in the Times
It has made us so happy ! We have a great
many things to make us happy just now, and
you are one of them, dear.' Zej)h cut her
visit short,  not for worlds would she have
darkened their lives with her heavy cares.
Agnes and she went away together, but not to
the perpetual gaiety which had been the joy of
their existence the last time they were under
the same roof. Now, Zeph would go nowhere,
and sat moping from morning till night.

On the morning of the day when Daylesford
was to return, a letter came from Miss Everilda
announcing that Polly was engaged to John
Simonds. Miss Everilda's letter was to Zeph,
but Agnes had a letter of her own frown Polly.
It was brimming over with happiness. She
and John loved each other truly, and were, as
they fondly believed, entering on a life which
was henceforth to be one of never-failing happiness.
Agnes read Polly's letter, which, of
course, did not cause her any surprise ; then
she looked to see how Zeph was taking
the news brought by hers. She had let it
fall on her lap, and was thinking of John,
and how he had loved her once, and of
what she had gained by being false to
him. Her thoughts were very bitter ; she
had gained pure misery, and felt that she deserved
it.

'Zeph, dear,' said Agnes, timidly, 'you look
very unhappy ; do you mind his marrying
Polly?'

I . Why should I ? ' she replied in a harsh

voice ; ' I certainly could not expect Mm to
keep single for my sake ! '

You will get quite accustomed to the idea
of his marrying her, in time,' pleaded Agnes.

Agnes, you are wrong ! I have no dislike
to the idea now. I want him to be happy ; I
want dear Polly to be happy, too ; why should
every one be miserable ? '

Agnes did not understand her. She was
afraid that Zeph would never be reconciled to
this marriage, and yet why should she mind
about it now ?

Agnes thoroughly misunderstood Zeph,
whose entire heart was now given to her
husband, and whose misery was solely caused
by her belief that he not only hated and despised
her, but had slipped back into his old
bonds. That made her woe, and Polly's happiness
seemed to add an edge to the sharpness of
her own pain.

She was very silent and sad all day. Agnes
watched her with quiet sympathy ; she had
always known that Zeph had once been very

much attached to John Simonds, but had
never grasped the possibility of her going on
caring for him after her marriage. She was
afraid her poor sister had acted very wickedly
in marrying,; but if she had, she was certainly
suffering for it now. No one could have been
kinder than Agnes during all this long day,
and though Zeph's anguish was caused by
something very different from what Agnes
suspected, her sympathy was soothing and
grateful. Daylesford was to come home in the
evening, Agnes wanted to have all signs of
grief cleared away before he appeared.

This time he was pleased to see her there 
this time her presence was a relief rather thana
restraint. Zeph was upstairs when he came.
Her mind had been so racked by anxiety ever
since he went away, that night after night
had passed and she had not closed her eyes,
and now sheer weariness and the desire to
hide her condition from her husband had
made her lie down to take some rest before he
returned.

Where is Zeph ? ' said he, impatiently.

Upstairs, lying down,' replied Agnes.

She is not ill, I hope ? ' said Daylesford, in
alarm.

No  well, yes, she is, rather. She does
not seem able to sleep  she never gets any
rest. I persuaded her to lie down a while this
afternoon.'

He looked so much grieved that Agnes
hastened to add, ' She will be all right when
she comes downstairs again. A little sleep
was all that was wanted to cure her ; but she
won't like not to be told of your return. I'll
go to her room very quietly, and see if she is
awake, and tell her.'

Better give her a little more time to rest,'
said Daylesford, though he had a great wish to
see her at once. ' Is there any news ? Has
anything happened since I went away ? '

Yes, great news ! Polly is engaged to be
married to Mr. Simonds ! We only heard of it
this morning. Not that there is any particular
newness in the news, after all, for we have

known for a long time that this was very likely
to happen.'

They had only heard of this engagement in
the morning, and Zeph was ill now, or, if not ill,
unable to meet his sight ! She had been very
strange of late, and he had borne her strangeness
as patiently as he could, for she was evidently
suffering. He had known only too well
why she was suffering. She had discovered
how much she loved this man, too late. That
was what had troubled his married life, and
now that the last touch had been put to her
loss she had broken down. Agnes stole away
to see if her sister were asleep or awake, but ina
very few minutes she came running back,
screaming, ' Godfrey, Godfrey, come quickly !
Zeph is very ill ; she is lying on the floor by her
bedside, and looks so dreadful ! Come at once ! '

There was no need to urge him to haste, he
was upstairs almost immediately, and found his
dear young wife lying on the floor in her room,
and looking as if she would never rise again.
All colour had faded from her lips and face.

and she was entirely unconscious. He took her
in his arms and laid her on the bed, but it was
some time before she opened her eyes again.
When she did, they fell on Agnes's kind,
anxious face. Daylesford was standing just
behind her, but when Zeph saw him, she
averted her eyes with every sign of dislike,
and said, in a low voice, ' Make him go away,
Agnes ! Unless you wish to kill me, make
Godfrey leave the room.'

Zeph darling,' said Daylesford, who was
quite overcome by her illness and by this unexpected
treatment, ' don't drive me away ! I
love you so, and am so anxious about you 
I want to stay with you.'

Oh no, no, you do not love me,' said Zeph,
faintly, ' go away ! I cannot bear to see you !
I want to go somewhere where I can get quite
away from you ! ' She looked as if she were
going to faint again.

My dear Zeph,' began Daylesford ; but
Agnes, who had her own ideas as to Zeph's
illness, went to him and led him away, saying :

Go now, she will soon be herself again.
Let her have her way now.'

Before they had reached the door he heard
Zeph say, ' Thank you, Agnes dear, but don't
you leave me, or I shall have no one  I
am all but alone in the world  I have no
husband.'

Dear Zeph,' said he, returning, but she insisted
on his going away without another word.
Daylesford feared that her mind was affected,
and sent a messenger to hurry the doctor still
more, or, if he could not come, bring another ;
but when the doctor did come, he said he could
discover no symptoms of insanity in his patient,
only great depression of spirits and feebleness
of pulse.

Surely there is something more than depression,'
whispered Agnes to Daylesford ; ' she
was almost violent when she declared that she
did not want to live with you, and drove you
away.'

But the doctor was firm. ' So far as I can
judge,' said he, ' she is in perfect possession of.

her senses  she is feeble from sleeplessness and
want of food you say she has had very little
of either of late, and she seems to have something
on her mind. She must be humoured
and kept very quiet, these things are most
critical  her mind has received a shock.'

On this Daylesford and Agnes looked at
each other with a glance that betokened intelligence
; then Agnes repented of a glance which
seemed to admit a fact against her sister, and
said, ' She will be quite well again when she
has had a night's rest, I hope.'

Daylesford went away and sat for hours
buried in thought  that letter had done it 
but she had been more or less unhappy long
before the letter came.

Agnes sat all night by her sister's bedside.
Zeph slept quietly when she did sleep ; when
she was awake she seemed utterly miserable,
yet she made no complaint. She never spoke
voluntarily ; but she did not seem to object to
answering her sister's questions. Seeing this,
Agnes was at last emboldened to say, ' Zephyrs

anything happened ? What has made you
like this ? I know you had that letter, but why
should you wish to leave Godfrey ? Do tell me,
dear, I am so unhappy about you.'

Don't be unhappy  don't try to persuade
me to stay with Godfrey  I cannot do it, I
want you to go and tell him so ! As soon as I
am well enough to leave this house, I shall go.
I shall try to find some quiet place far away
from him and from every one.'

But why ? He is certain to ask me why,
if I go to him.'

Because I cannot live with him any longer,'
replied Zeph, firmly.

Don't you love him ? ' asked Agnes, and
all Zeph's firmness was gone in a moment  
she hid her face and wept.

She soon recovered herself, however, and
said, ' It is no use to ask me whether I love
him or not, I don't intend to live with him !
Ask him to give me a little money -just enough
for me to live on quietly somewhere ; I shall
be all alone  very little will do. And get him

to promise to leave me in peace  he must
never come near me, and he must never write.
I can go away  but the effort I make now
is the last I must be called on to make.'

My poor dear Zeph,' said Agnes, kissing
her, ' you would not talk that way if you were
not ill ! '

Zeph shook her head and said, ' You don't
know. I wish you would speak to Godfrey 
I shall not be well until I know that he will
make no difficulty about my going '

As if he would let you go away when he
loves you so ! ' replied Agnes.

Loves me so I You will drive me mad if
you say such things,' said Zeph, ' I must know
best ! I know he will let me go, but I want to
have it settled. It must be settled, for I tell
you plainly I will stay here no longer, and if
you refuse to go and see him about it, I will
have a cab brought as soon as it is daylight,
and will take lodgings somewhere. Go at once.
Tell him if he wishes to show kindness and
mercy, he will let me go without a word.'

Daylesford was in the library, his anxiety
was much too great to allow him to think of
taking any rest. Agnes went to him and gave
a softened version of Zeph's words and wishes.
He thought he possessed a key to what was so
unintelligible to Agnes. She thought she possessed
one to what must be so puzzling to him.
Each thought, ' Poor Zeph, she has loved John
Simonds very truly ! '

'The doctor told us that she was to be
humoured,' said he, ' and she shall be humoured,
it is right that she should be. Soothe her;
tell her I will consent to anything she likes,
perhaps she will sleep if you do.'

What ! am I to say that she may go ? '
began Agnes.

Oh no, don't say that, unless nothing else
will satisfy her ; say if she is anxious to be
alone for a while, I will go. I will go back to
Paris  I will go to my brother's  I will do
anything, but I must beg her to stay in her
home. Tell her I won't come back till she
gives me leave. If that won't do, tell her she

may go ; tell her anything, promise anything
to give her peace and rest, it will be time
enough to talk of explanations when she is herself
again.'

How good you are, Godfrey ! ' exclaimed
Agnes, warmly.

'Not good at all. I am so afraid that I
have been unkind to her lately.'

I am sure you have not,' said Agnes, and
then she went to Zeph and told her that Godfrey
was breaking his heart about her.

Zeph laughed her to scorn, and told her that
she did not want to hear anything about him
or what he felt except on one subject, and that
was her own departure. Agnes repeated part
of the conversation she had just had with him,
but Zeph exclaimed, ' He shall not go, he shall
not be driven out of this house ! It is his !
Everything is his. It is my place to go, and I
will go.'

Well, dear, he says you shall have your
own w ay about everything ; but surely you will
not go without some explanation ; how could

VOL. III. L

you leave your home and your husband in such
a way ? You had better let hin go, he is quite
willing to do it. and will not ask you to see
him until you are well and able to talk to him
about what is making you so unhappy. Would
you rather he went and lived at the studio fora
while ? He could do that, he said, and then
when you were well again you can see him and
let him assure you of his love.'

Zeph had shuddered at the mention of the
studio, but when Agnes began to talk of his
giving assurances of his love, her anger rekindled,
and she interrupted her at once  ' Be
silent, Agnes, I don't want him to assure me of
his love, he never shall. I will never see him
again. I shall never be more able to talk to
him about what is making me unhappy than I
am now, and there is no need, for he must know.
To-morrow I shall leave him and his house forever

1 '

How wicked to do such a thing as that
when you have no reason ! '

I have a reason ! Say no more about it,

you are making me very ill. You are making
me talk of things which give me the greatest
pain ; you know I ought not to talk at all.
Go to Godfrey, you are more his friend than
mine  go to him. I will say no more but that
I intend to leave him.'

Zeph looked so exhausted that Agnes was
alarmed, and yet she could not prevail on her
to lie down and be quiet. ' I am not more his
friend than yours, dear Zeph,' said the poor
tired girl ; ' I love you both ; I will go
now if you wish it, perhaps you will sleep
if I do.' But before Agnes had reached the
door, Zeph said, 'Stop a moment. I will
write a line to him, and you shall take it with
you.'

Agnes sat down feeling sick at heart. All
night long she had done nothing but go backwards
and forwards to Daylesford with cruel
messages, and now Zeph was going to write
something to him which would probably be
crueller still. She watched her pen moving
rapidly over the paper without one moment's

L 2

indecision. How cold and hard and resolute
she looked ! The letter was soon written.

Eead it,' said Zeph, handing it to Agnes,
and then she threw herself back on the sofa
looking pale as ashes. Agnes read this : 
Godfrey,  Thank you for yielding to my
wishes. To-morrow morning early, I go to
Bournemouth where I was before  if not,
somewhere else. We must never meet again.
We ought never to have married. I ask your
pardon for having married you  you ought todo
the same by me. We have been heavily
punished  I much more heavily than you. I
will read no letter from you. Don't attempt to
see me ; I never will see you. I wish to leave
you quietly, but for ever. You will be happier
without me. I could not bear now to go on
living with you  you must not say bitter things
of me  you know why. I make no reproaches.
May God forgive both of us ! I am very
miserable! I don't attempt to conceal it,
but some day, if you will but leave me in
peace, I may come to myself again  here I

never could. Farewell ! Do what you will 
I shall never complain  only keep away from
me.'

Long before Agnes had read to the end of
this, she was crying. Zeph was now lying on
the sofa pale as death, but calm. Agnes was
awed by her attitude and expression, and dared
utter no comment on what she had read. She
stole quietly away to Daylesford. ' Here,' said
she, ' I am to give you this. It is a very cruel
letter, but she is ill, you must not let it make
you unhappy.'

He read it twice, and then wrote a line or
two in answer. ' My dearest wife, I love and
pity you with all my heart. You are ill, and I
feel that I have not been so kind to you as I
ought to have been ; but my love for you has
never wavered, I have pitied you always, I pity
you still more now. You want to be alone fora
while, and perhaps you are right ; but, dear
Zeph, you must stay in your own home. Keep
Agnes with you, and ask Miss Seaton to come
to you. I am going to see my brother, and

when I return, we shall meet, I trust, as if all
this trouble had never been.'

And now, Agnes,' said he, after he had
signed and sealed this, ' I must do some packing.
When Zeph gets up, I shall be gone;
give her this letter, and tell her that I have
gone, and that she must stay here. She will
soon be herself again ; time will do for her
what it has done for so many  at least, that is
my hope. I shall stay a day or two in Paris
for the sake of getting news of her. This is
my address. You must write to me to-day by
the afternoon post. I must know how she
bears my departure, and what the doctor says.
Write again tomorrow, and then, if your
report is favourable, I shall continue my
journey, if not I shall return at once. My
absence will do her good, I think.'

My dear Godfrey,' said Agnes, ' any one
else would be angry  you are behaving like an
angel.'

An angel ! ' said he, ' if I had behaved 
but we shall be happy yet.'

Agnes saw that he did not at all realise the
strength of Zeph's anger, or of her resolution to
leave him. She did not undeceive him. He
went and packed his own portmanteau  a
thing he had never done in his life before, and
by seven o'clock he had left the house. Agnes
had never been so grateful for anything as she
was for having been wise enough to let him go
with a heart full of hope. ' It was the first
shock which made her behave so strangely,' he
had said. 'Each day that goes by will make
her calmer. If she is all right again before I
get away from Paris  you must write and stop
me going farther. I will come back the
moment you say I may.'

Then you think her mind really has been
disturbed by a sudden shock ? ' Agnes had
said.

Yes, by Polly's letter, he had replied, for
all disguise seemed useless. ' In a day or two
you will see that she will care as little for this
as she did when we were first married.'

Agnes feared that there was something on

Zejh's mind that was not likely to be dissipated
in a few days, but lie was thankful that he
could hope.

Good-bye, Agnes dear ; thank you for your
kindness to me. You shall see what a good
brother I will be to you when I come back.
Don't forget to write to the " Westminster "
both to-day and tomorrow.'

Those had been his last words, and now he
was gone. She went upstairs to Zeph  she
hoped to find her asleep. She heard a noise
of some one moving about, and when she
opened the door she saw that Zeph had been
getting her clothes ready for her maid to pack.
Her dresses were lying in one place, her
mantles in another, and so on, all tidily
arranged each according to its kind.

It comforts me,' said Zeph, apologetically
luxury had worked its will on her, and she
had begun to be ashamed of doing anything
for herself  ' I feel much better when I am
doing something to further my departure.'

You need not think of that ! ' said Agnes,

Godfrey has gone himself ! He is on his way
now to Santa Eulalia. Here is a note he has
left for you.'

I don't want it ! ' said Zeph, resolutely.
Take it away, I will not read it ! '

Zeph ! ' exclaimed Agnes, ' I have always
looked up to you and tried hard to make
myself as like you as I could  I never thought
it possible that you could behave so ill. You
have driven your husband away without a
shadow of reason.'

Zeph did not speak. She sat down, and
looked like one praying for strength to bear
most cruel injustice. At last, and with a great
effort, she said, ' Perhaps if you understood
things better you would speak differently.
You think you understand everything, Agnes,
but you don't. Leave me alone, I want to be
alone.'

Without a shadow of reason,' she repeated,
when the door had closed on her sister.
What would she say, or think, if she knew
what reason I have ? ' She must never know.

What would she say if she did ? What would
Godfrey say ? Would he still give her assurances
of this love ? How dared he do so ?
Only yesterday she had received a convincing
proof of his falseness.

The whole scene came back to her mind
now with picture-like distinctness. She had
been asleep for some time, but had suddenly
awakened, and had found by her watch that her
husband must be at home. She had got up in
an instant  had smoothed her hair, and rejoiced
to see that her sleep had brought a pretty colour
into her pale cheeks, and had then hastened
downstairs to see him whom she was foolish
enough to love. What torture it was to remember
all this now ! Her way had led her
past Godfrey's dressing-room  the door was
open, and his man-servant was just taking his
things out of a portmanteau lying open on
the floor, as Zeph passed by. She saw him
standing with something in his hand, which he
was examining inside and out with an air of
amused surprise. Zeph had seen what it was

at a glance. It was that olive-green cap  that
self-same Raphael-like cap she had seen such a
short while before. Here was proof, and absolutely
overwhelming proof, of all she feared.
Hester Langdale had been in Paris with him 
there was no room for doubt. Zeph had gone
back to her room. Everything had turned
round before her eyes, and she had fallen
senseless to the round.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

'HAVE YOUR WAY.'

Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband ?

Romeo and Juliet.

'Is he really gone ? ' enquired Zeph next
day. ' Are you quite sure that he is not living
at the studio ? ' She had been lying on the
sofa most of the day, looking very sad and
thoughtful, and Agnes had been hoping that she
vas feeling regret ; so she said at once, ' Dear
Zeph, you do love him ! I knew you would be
sorry when he was really gone ; for he has
gone.'

Zeph did not seem able to trust herself to
make any reply to this tactless speech, and
Agnes, who could not bear to see pain for
which a remedy was so possible, foolishly hastened
to add : ' He is only going as far as Paris

for the present ; he will stay there for a day
or two, to be within reach of recall  and you
will let me recall him, dear, and make us
all happy ? '

You have his address ? '

Yes, I have his address. I'll write at once,
or will you write yourself  a few words from
you would be worth pages from me.'

I thought you told me that Godfrey was
going to Santa Eulalia,' said Zeph, coldly.

So he is, if you persist in wishing him to
keep away; but though you were not intended
to know it, he is going to stay in Paris for a day
or two to give you time to learn your true
mid, and on the slightest hint of a change in
you, he will come back and all will be well
again.'

It was not in Zeph's nature to reveal to
Agnes her cause of complaint against her husband
 she would spare her sister's loving heart
the pain of hearing of such falseness, and be
loyal in her efforts to preserve Godfrey's good
name ; but it was cruel of him to pretend to

such devotion when his heart was so alienated
from her.

The sooner you put an end to this the
better,' said she. ' It is absurd for him to wait
on in Paris for any change in me ! Give me a
sheet of paper  I will write to him myself.'

She wrote unhesitatingly : ' Agnes tells me
that you are waiting in Paris, thinking that I
may change my mind. Dismiss that idea forever.
I shall never change. I am now well, and
able to form a calm opinion. My calm opinion
is that we must part. I might make charges
and utter reproaches, but as you yourself once
pointed out, my own conduct is not free from
blame. Make some arrangement by which I
can live somewhere apart from you, and I will
never trouble you again. Please accept this as
final, for nothing can alter my decision. I
return unopened the letter you left behind you.'
She addressed this with her own hand and sentit
to the post, and then stole away to indulge
in the agony of sorrow that was fast making its
own of her.

Never mention his name to me again,' she
said to Agnes when they next met. Agnes
obeyed, but she could see that day after day,
from early morning till late night, Zeph's mind
was filled with the thought of him.

In due course a letter came from Dales
At first Zeph was not inclined to open it.
I have told him that I will read no letter from
him, and I detest reading hypocritical professions
of love ! ' said she.

How can you call them hypocritical ? '
began Agnes. Zeph interrupted her and bade
her be silent.

You must read this,' resumed Agnes ; ' you
asked him to make arrangements for your
separation, and no doubt he has done so  you
ought to know what they are.'

Zeph coloured painfully, and her eyes filled
with tears. ' Ah yes,' said she, ' I ought to
know, but I shall be glad when it is over.' She
spoke calmly, but Agnes believed it cost her a
great effort to do so, and that in her heart she
loved him and longed to recall him.

When ZepH opened the letter she read as
follows ; ' I have done all that a man can do,
and have borne more than any man ought to
bear. Have your vay  we will never meet
again. I am going to my brother, and then
much farther. I shall not return to England
for years. There is nothing to bring me back
I do not wish to come back  your perverse
and utterly unreasonable conduct shows me
that we can never be happy together. You are
right  it is wiser to part. I make no further
opposition to your wish  in fact, it is my own.
I shall be obliged to you if you will continue to
reside where you are ; I have asked Miss Seaton
to come to you ; my lawyer will give you any
help he can. G. D.'

That was all. She had her way, and thus
without a word of regret or kindness he acceded
to her desire to part  nay, more, he said
it was his own. Every tie between them was
now severed but her dependence on his bounty.
She would have to receive from him once or
twice a year a sum of finney which would

enable her to go on being miserable. Zeph
could have shrieked aloud, her misery was so
great and unexpected. She had not thought it
possible that he would shake her off for ever so
readily. She could not bear to let Agnes see
how overwhelming this shock was  and yet
she had no one to turn to for pity and help but
Agnes.

'Agnes, Agnes,' said she, hoarsely, 'you
have had a letter from him, too, perhaps ? If
you have, let me see yours  it may not be
quite so cruel as this.'

I had rather not show it,' pleaded Agnes,
and then Zeph realised that it was worse than
her own ; he had spoken more openly to
Agnes, and had said all the bitter unloving
things that had long been stored up in his
mind. Agnes watched Zeph with alarm ; she
tried to soothe her, but Zeph soon called. pride
to her assistance and affected to be pleased to
know that he was gone. And now, day by
day, Agnes was more anxious and unhappy,
.for Zeph was growing so unmistakably ill.

VOL. III. 

Meantime Polly came home. isle was to
be married as soon as the holidays began, and
came to spend sole time with her family. To
Agnes's surprise, Zepli ]had no difficulty iu
meeting her, and took much more interest in
her marriage thai she did in anything else.

How ill she looks ! ' said Polly.

Agnes shook her head. But if they
thought that Zep]i was mourning the loss of
John Simonds and had quarrelled with Dales
for his sake, they were wrong. She had
no love in her heart for any one but her husband
 no feeling of any Ind but perpetual
grief for the loss of his affection. Her coldness
during the last year had driven him brick to
Hester. Hester was probably with him now
wherever he vas, and happy ; he had learnt
her value and would never part from her
again. Ze])h did not know where he was 
she knew nothing of him. He might be at
Santa Eulalia, or he might 1)e in Paris lie
despised and disliked, and was glad to be rid
of her, and had gone out of her life f :>r ever.

Agnes knew no more tlia'i Zeph  no one
did know anything, unless it were Mr. Blackmore
the lawyer. lie ]had cared once, but
Zepli ]had been too ill to see Inn  now lie
wished that she lead made .an effort  ]perhaps she
would have heard some trilling fact concerning
her husband. Mr. Blacls:inore had seen Agnes
and lead left a cheque for present expenses,
which to Agnes's inexperienced eye represented
at least a year's income, ]put would in reality
perhaps meet the demands made by the outside
world f jr the space of one month. He had
told her that lie w- aid call again very soon.

Did he say how Godfrey was ? ' asked
Zeph, with much interest ; ' it seeius strange to
know nothing' about him.'

He did not know how he was, so I hope
he is well,' replied Agnes ; ' but he said he had
received a letter from him written from some
far-away foreign place  I have forgotten its
name  I will try to remember it  but, after
all, why should I puzzle my poor head, for you
don't care to know it.'

2

This she said hoping to provoke some expression
of affection. Zeph sighed, and said
gently, ' Agnes, never say such a thing as that
again ! You do not know the pain you give
me.'

I wish he were here,' said Agnes, looking
at Zeph's pale face as she lay propped up with
cushions on the sofa, and thinking that nothing
but reconciliation to Godfrey would ever make
her well again.

I don't,' said Zeph, hopelessly ; ' if he
were, I should be still more miserable.'

Polly came to see her, and looked at her
compassionately with her kind, honest, anxious
eyes. ' Dear child,' said she, when they were
alone, ' you do look ill ! I wish your doctor
seemed to do more for you.'

Zeph was still seeing her doctor. He came
twice or thrice a week, and smiled blandly in
her face, fingered her pulse delicately, and enquired
if there was any particular kind of food
she could fancy, or amusement she could enjoy,
and generally comported himself in such a way

that it was impossible to fail to see that in his
estimation there was nothing the matter with
her body, but a great deal amiss with her
spirits.

My doctor is no good ! ' said Zeph ; ' no
doctor is any good to me but poor dear old Dr,
Simonds  he knows me best.'

Let him come and see you now dear , I
am sure he would, for half a word.'

Zeph shook her head, ' I am sure he would
not ; you don't know how unforgiving Mrs.
Simonds is  she would not let him, even if he
were willing.'

Let me ask him,' said Polly.

Better not,' replied Zeph. Then she
looked up and said, ' You and 1 understand
each other, Polly, though we have never
spoken of these old things. You have no need
to assure me of John's forgiveness, for I know
how good he is, and I have no need to tell
you how thoroughly I rejoice in his and your
happiness. I do rejoice, though I always seem
so quiet. Your engagement takes a weight

off my mii\(I  in every way it is a relief to
Die.'

Polly's warm, vigorous hand was stretched
out at once to take the pale thin hand lying on
her sister's breast. It was cold, and Polly kept
it in the comforting embrace of her own.

Now that I have said so much,' continued
Zeph, ' I will says everything, and then, dear,
you will know that my true heart lies open to
you, but remember that I am speaking in confidence.
I ought not to have married Godfrey ;
it was very wicked of me, but I was young and
ignorant, and hardly knew what I was doing,
and how wrong it was. I behaved cruelly ill
to John. I was punished for it afterwards 
for more than a year after I married Godfrey, I
was unhappy about John ; that may seem very
wicked to you, dear, but my marrying Godfrey
was the wicked part of the business, not my
thinking of John, and fretting about him. I
did think of him, Polly, I could not help it,
and if you had got engaged to him then,
it would have been a terrible trial to me.

Gradually, however. Godfrey's never-failing
kindness and goodness won on me so that I
began to love him most truly, and at last, my
only feeling about John was shame at the way
I had treated him, and grief at the thought of
the harm 1 had done him. It was very painful
to me to feel that perhaps he would think ill
of all women for my sake, and never again have
sufficient trust in any one to dare to love.
When you and he became engaged, all seemed
right. It was even right for me to love him, as
I always shall, for his own sake, as well as for
yours.'

Polly bent over her, kissed her, and said,
Only one thing is wanted to make us all happy
you and Godfrey '

Oh, Polly,' said Zeph, bursting into tears,
that is the worst of it ! There is no happiness
for me ! I shall have to tell you all  he does
not love me ! Just when we might have been
so happy, I found that what I had long feared
was true  I had lost his love.'

Oh, no, no ! Impossible ! ' exclaimed

Polly. ' I heard him talk about you when he
was at Seaton Court, and I know that that is
impossible

Unhappily it is true. I am sure of it 
I have proof. If not, should I be lying here
now, ill, and miserable, and parted from him ?
Polly, you don't know  these things do happen,
and they have happened to me. I said things
which he could never forgive. I behaved so
strangely that he could have no belief in my
affection  there was no ground on which to
base a reconciliation. You don't know how
wretched I have been, and yet I do so love
him.'

But all that seems to be necessary is that
you should own it. You should say you love
him, and show that you do. It is not too
late.'

It is quite too late ! ' replied Zeph, drearily.
You would not have me show my love to a
man who does not care for it? He has left
me for ever ! I shall see him no more.'

But you drove him away ! You insisted

on his leaving you! Zeph, if you have any
love for me, or for him, or for any one, tell me
why you did that ? '

No, Polly,' said Zeph, firmly, ' that I must
keep to myself ; ' but even while she spoke she
was longing to tell her sister all. It would bethe
greatest relief to do so. Polly was stronger
in every way than Agnes, and if she knew,
would give her help and comfort. ' I wonder
whether I dare tell you,' faltered Zeph. ' I
wonder whether what seems to me so dreadful
would strike you in the same way  but I dare
not tell you ; besides, I could not bear to make
you think ill of Godfrey, for I know how much
you like him.'

I shal L always like him, and always respect
him. He is as kind as a woman and as strong
as a man. He could not do a mean action ora
wrongs things.'

That decided Zeph. She could not bear to
lessen her sister's admiration for Godfrey  no,
she would bear her own burden to the end.

I cannot tell you now,' said she, ' I may

never do so, but if I tell anyone it shall be 3011.
Promise not to let my father and mother know
how unhappy I am ; and yet I am afraid father
must know already, for why should Godfrey go
away as he has, if something were not amiss ? '

'You have forgotten father's ways, Zeph.
He has not the slightest idea of anything of the
kind ; indeed, he has almost forgotten that
Godfrey has gone. Think again, dear, it would
be such a relief to you to tell me. I might be
able to '

Polly,' said Zeph, solemnly, ' don't tempt
me to tell you what I ought not, but do something
for me. Of course you see Dr. Simonds
sometimes. Next time you go there ask him
the name of the girl he spoke to about a month
ago at the door of a studio in Somerset Place,
Chelsea. I can tell you the exact date by
thinking a little, but he will probably remember
if you describe her. Say that she was
a tall, slim, and very graceful girl of three or
four-and-twenty, with ruddy brown hair, and
she was dressed in olive-green. She did not

seem well off, but she was well-mannered. It
was strange that I should see her with Dr.
Simonds. He let her close by Godfrey's studio
door, and they seemed very pleased to see each
other.'

I will do it to-day,' said Polly, ' I am to
dine there this evening. I will take an opportunity
of asking it when Mrs. Simonds is not
there. What name elo you expect him to say ?

The abruptness of this question threw Zeph
off her guard, and she answered immediately,
Hester Langdale,' and then she hid her face in
the cushions, for the very name tortured her.

You seem to worry yourself a great deal
about this Hester Langdale,' said Polly, who
thought her sister most unreasonable.

My dear Polly ! ' said Zeph, struggling
\ith her grief.

But why do you ? ' persisted Polly.

I cannot tell you  don't ask. You may
know some day.' And having said this, Zeph
either could or would say no more.

Polly sat by lier for more than an hour

trying to stop her crying, doing her best to
win her confidence, but all in vain, and all the
while Zeph looked so ill, so weak, so fragile
and unhappy, that Polly was in the greatest
distress and alarm. She felt so sure that something
ought to be done, and done quickly, to
save her sister, and so uncertain what that
something ought to be. Were ever girls more
desolate than they ? They had parents, but
if Polly went to them for help or advice she
would come back as poor as she went  nay
poorer, for she would have made them unhappy.
Miss Everilda was kindness itself, but
her helpfulness would probably express itself
in a lyric  she would compare Zeph to
the star-like jessamine in the drear north
wind, or the perfumed violet 'mid the plashing
rain, and meantime illness and unhappiness
would keep what they had gained  the upper
hand.

At last Polly had an idea. She rose
suddenly, having taken a resolution. ' I am
going,' said she. ' I may perhaps come back

to you in an hour or so. When does your
doctor generally come ? '

About four ; but he was here yesterday,
so he won't come to-day. I don't care
whether he comes again or not, he is no good
to me.'

Good-bye,' said Polly, without showing
any sympathy for Zeph's dislike of her doctor.
Lie still ; I will soon come back.'

Polly's tone reminded Zeph of the days
long ago when a speech of this kind seemed to
convey a promise to bring back something
good  but no one could bring back anything
that was good in her eyes  all that was good
had gone from her for ever. She said nothing,
but watched Polly leave the room, and hoped
that she would never know such pain as had
fallen to her own lot.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

SOMETHING HAS GONE WRONG.

Not die ; but live a life of truest breath

Aud teach true life to fight with mortal wrongs.

Teknysox.

London was getting very hot, and Polly found
both the heat and the ncise distressing after
the coolness aud quiet of Seaton Court. She
walked quickly too, for she had a great project
in her mind. She was bent on taking Dr.
Simonds to cure Zeph. How was she to see
him apart from the ogress who early in life had
made her own of him ? Mrs. Simonds had
never forgiven Zeph, and never lost an opportunity
of proclaiming that she never would do
so. Polly was afraid even to mention her
sister s name in her presence. She knocked
at the doctor's door before she went upstairs.

She Lad been familiar with the ways of the
house  ever since childhood, and knew that he
was often at home at this hour. He was not
at home that day. Sie went in search of ]airs.
Minds and soon found Tier. Mrs. Simonds,
who always maintained that doctors' wives
must follow the fashions, was sitting in something
which she was pleased to call a tea-gown.
It was made of grey plush trimmed
with lace, and being, of course, loosely male,
imparted a \.\\<c free outline t(; the lady wh->
wore it.

Where is Dr. Simonds ? ' asked Polly,
boldly, though in her heart she was afraid.

Oh, I don't know,' replied Mrs. Simonds.
'What do you want with 1dm? He will be
here by-and-by, I dare say, but I t]i(.)uglit you
had come for a nice comfortable chat with me.'

Comfort and Mrs, Simonds were very wide
apart ; even good, kind Polly thought s.j, anal
smiled a little internally.

No, I want to see the doctor if I can ; I
want him to be so very kind as fo ego back

with me to see my sister Zeph ; she is so ill.
She has a doctor, but he does her no good ;
she has no faith in him, she has no faith in anyone
but your husband ! '

It will be faith without works then,' said
Mrs. Simonds, grimly, ' for she certainly will
not get my husband to demean himself by
going near her ! You must excuse me speaking
plainly, Polly, 1 must speak as I feel.'

Come, dear Mrs. Simonds, be forgiving,'
pleaded Polly ; ' Zeph owns her fault. John
has forgiven her. He has a great regard for
her, and wants everything to be smoothed over,
and all of us to be good friends.'

John is foolishly forgiving. He may do
as he likes, and be friends with her if he
chooses ; but I never will, and my husband
shall not either ! He shall not go near her if I
can stop him. I have a particular dislike to
wickedness set up in high places ! '

Don't be unkind to me,' urged Polly, m
great distress. ' She is my sister, and she is
very ill ; I am most unhappy about her.'

She was always fond of making people
unhappy ! ' observed Mrs. Simonds, who seemed
to think that Zeph's illness was a malicious
attack on Polly's peace. * Here is Ealph ! but
he shall not go ! '

I don't think Dr. Simonds will refuse the
first request T make,' said Polly, gently.

No,' said the doctor, gallantly, ' nor the
second, nor even the hundredth if I keep my
present opinion of you, dear.'

One must marry you, Ealph, I suppose,'
said Mrs. Simonds, ' to have one's requests refused
; that seems to be my case.'

Dr. Seconds looked bewildered, but Polly,
with many apologies to Mrs. Simonds for attempting
to controvert her will, told her story.
Mrs. Simonds, who soon saw that she was
certain to be worsted, made some excuse for
leaving the room. She retreated, consoling
herself with the idea that her husband would
at all events secure a good patient, for this
fanciful creature in Ambassadors' Gate was sure
to be always imagining herself to be ill. She

VOL. III. N

was ' not a person of any resources  fancying
herself ill was one of the few employments left
open to such people.'

Polly narrated her story simply, and soon
interested the doctor. Zeph was ill, weak, and
alone, and in her illness her thoughts had
turned to hiui ; that was quite enough to make
the doctor, who had known her ever since she
was a baby, wish to go to her. Why should
he not ? All the evil she had done to John
was at an end ; John had fallen on his feet, and
had got the best of the three sisters for his own.
The doctor was delighted with Polly and the
engagement. He lead the highest opinion of
her head and heart, and listened to all she told
him with the greatest concern. As yet she
had not touched on any family secret, nor had
she remembered to make the promised enquiry.

Has your sister anything on her mind ? '
he asked.

Polly burst into tears.

Let us go,' he said, ' I have half an hour
at least to spare, and will go with you now.'

Stop one minute,' said Polly, ' I had to ask
you a question. Who was the pretty girl
dressed in olive-green whom you met and shook
hands with in Somerset Place a week or two
ago?'

He shook his head in despair. ' My dear,
I shake hands with all kinds of people. I have
not the remotest idea. Some patient of mine
in whom I took an interest, I suppose ; but that
is no clue, for I am interested in all of them.
Need hair, did you say ? '

Yes, not flaming red ; rather like bronze,
Zeph said. Do try to think who she was,
Zeph is so anxious to know.'

Impossible ! I have not the least idea ! '

Oh, but do try to remember. She seemed
pleased to see you ; you seemed pleased to see
her. She was tall and slim, young and pretty.'

'Young and pretty,' repeated the doctor,
'but, my dear child, I am thankful to say
hundreds of persons exist who answer to that
description.'

You were standing at the door of a studio.'

X 2

I daresay we were, but I don't know when
or where. There are a great many studios
down there.'

Here Polly either confused her instructions
or was carried away by zeal, for she said, ' Was
it Hester Langdale ? '

'My dear,' exclaimed the doctor, in a
startled voice, ' do you mean to tell me that
you know anything about Hester Langdale ? '

No,' replied Polly, simply ' I know nothing
whatsoever about her. Was that girl
Hester?'

No, certainly not. I never saw, or spoke
to Hester Langdale there ; she could not be
there ! Tell me why you ask this ? Why do
you want to know if I spoke to Hester Langdale
there ? '

Ought I to answer that ? Zeph might not
like me to do so ; but when I come to think, I
cannot answer it. I know nothing of Hester
Langdale. I have no idea why Zeph wished
me to put that question, I only know that she
is making herself completely miserable about

her, or something connected with her. I
ought not to say so much  all that I was told
to do was to ask you the name of a very pretty
girl, dressed as I described just now when she
spoke to you in Somerset Place.'

I don't know,' said the doctor, hopelessly,
I am very sorry, but I really do not know. I
see a great many girls, some pretty, some plain
it may have been some one who was in the
hospital.'

I daresay it was, Ealph,' said Mrs. Simonds,
who had approached them unawares, ' I should
think it extremely likely that it was ! I never
liked that hospital. It seems to me to be a
place where good, respectable, middle-aged
medical men just go for the pleasure of being
able to chatter for half an hour or so with
silly young creatures of twenty.'

And cure them when they are ill,' suggested
the doctor.

They are all actresses and artists' models,
I have no doubt,' remarked Mrs. Simonds, ' and
such people are much better ill  if illness does

nothing else for them, it sometimes brings them
to their senses. Frivolous, foolish creatures ! '

You are under a great mistake,' replied the
doctor ; ' but we must go, Polly,'

After a word or two to Mrs. Simonds they
began to go downstairs, but when they were
half-way she came to the landing and called
after her husband : ' I suppose you are aware,
Ealph, that I do not approve of what you are
doing ! I am sure you mean well and kindly,
but I think it very foolish.'

I must not stop to argue about it now,'
answered Dr. Simonds, ' I shall see you again
very shortly, my dear.' And so he left.

You are kind ! ' said Polly, when they
were safely seated in a hansom. ' I ought to
explain to you that Zeph does not know that I
have come for you. It was entirely my own
idea.'

It was a very good one ; I am very glad
to go. You spoke of an artist's studio just
now. What artist was it ? I did not know that
you knew any.'

Mr. Daylesford paints,' replied Polly. ' He
has a studio i]i Chelsea  or had before he went
away.'

Went away ? Where is he ? '

I don't believe any one knows exactly ; he
is in Persia, I think, or perhaps in India.'

Doesn't his wife know ? ' enquired the
doctor, who saw vistas of sorrow opening out
before him.

Polly hung her head and could not makeup
her mind to answer for some time  at last
she said : ' Something has gone wrong ; you
had better not know too much about it ; if you
could persuade her to confide in you it would
be a good thing.'

I will try,' said he, and was silent. He
was sure that this trouble was connected with
I-Ie:ter Langdale. Polly too was silent ; now
that she was actually driving to Ambassadors'
Gate with Dr. Simonds, she began to be afraid
of Zeph's anger. Zeph had been a formidable
personage to her sisters in the old days in
Lome Gardens, and they had not yet shaken

off their awe of her. ' I will go and forewarn
her,' suggested Polly.

No, let me go in with you,' replied the
doctor, ' I assure you it will be better  it is
not as if I were a stranger.'

With some misgivings Polly yielded, and
they walked into the room together. Zephyrs
lying just as Polly had left her, but her
complexion was even more unearthly. She
did not look up until she heard a strange footstep.
She seemed startled when she saw the
doctor, but he fancied that when her surprise
was over, she was rather glad to see him.

I have come,' said he, ' because I heard
you were ill. I have known you ever since
you were a child. One cannot forget these
things, and you and your sisters have always
been dear to me. For the sake of old times
you must let me see if I can do anything to
help you to your health again.'

After the first few words Zeph had gratefully
laid her hand in his, and now she was
lying with a pleased smile on her lips. Polly

and Agnes withdrew, and the doctor began to
ask a variety of medical questions, to all of
which Zeph responded as best she might.

You understand that I am here only as a
friend  I could not attend you in any other
capacity  it would be contrary to professional
etiquette, but in all you have told me I detect
no source of alarm  nothing to cause this low
state of health. My dear child, keep nothing
back from me. You may trust me.'

Zeph was silent. He saw that she was
touched by his words, but dared not speak.
I have always pitied you children,' he resumed,
you seemed to be left so much to yourselves.
You have never had a father or mother to
whom you coidd go with your little troubles and
your big troubles. You have had to struggle
with them yourselves. That adds to their weight
and difficulty, until at last you faint under it.
Zeph, my dear, I shall soon be a relative of yours,
and I want to be a kind one ; trust me ; tell
me what is distressing you so much. If you will,
I have a conviction that I can supply a cure.'

Zeph shook her head and said, 'Oh, no.
There is something  I cannot deny that ; but
I cannot speak of it  least of all to you.'

Dear child, you surely do not think that 1
am less willing to help you because of things
which happened in the past ? If you do you
are mistaken. You caused me and mine
sorrow once, I own it, but it is all over now  -
my sorrow has turned into exceeding great
gladness. I thoroughly love and respect your
dear sister, and for her sake I would come to
you, as I do now, even if I had not another
reason  two other reasons in fact.'

Tears came to Zeph's eyes  she was nothing
to any one  every one who had ever cared for
her could hive happily  nay more than happily 
without her. John and John's father were
congratulating themselves on having got Polly
in lieu of herself; even this good old doctor
was only talking so kiiidlj l.*ecause she was
Polly's sister. But it was not for her to repine,
she was but reaping what she had sown.
What reasons ? ' she enquired very humbly.

but with a faint hope that a certain amount of
regard for herself entered into the composition
of one of them.

Firstly, because I have seen you grow up
almost before my eyes ; and secondly, because
the business of my life is to heal and to help,
and I think if you would trust me, I might
help you  I am certain I could 1 '

Zeph looked wistfully in his rugged worn
face. It had been familiar to her from her
earliest youth. He had always been grimly
kind, but that was only because she had never
needed any more particular kindness. Now
she saw a glow of benevolence in his eyes, and
the sternness of his features was softened away
by the earnestness of his desire to give back
hope and health to her.

T' > k you, thank you, most truly,' said
she, ' but it is so dreadful to ; pe.ik of things.'

I daresay it is,' he res': > \ ' and after all
talking is bad for you, but I have some time
on my hands this afternoon,'  alas, poor man,
what a fiction that was !  ' and I think I

should like to stay here with you a while if
you will allow me  don't speak, I will do the
talking. What shall we talk about ? Let me
see  Polly made some enquiries about a girl I
know very well. Let me tell you part of her
history We doctors are supposed to have
very disagreeable lives, but somehow or other
we see people under circumstances which
oblige them to show their true characters, and
some of them come out nobly  women especially.
Polly asked me some questions about a
girl  she said that you were curious about her
no, anxious about her, I think she said. My
dear, if you knew Hester Langdale as I do, you
would soon see that you had no cause for
anxiety.'

He glanced at Zeph. Her eyes were
riveted on his, and full of the keenest interest.
Yes,' he resumed, ' Hester Langdale comes
nearer to being a saint than any woman I ever
saw.'

Zeph's face flushed ; her eyes drooped, the
hope she had begun to cherish was gone.

Oh, how mistaken you are ? ' said she. ' Unhappily,
I know more about her than you do.
I know all about her  if I did not, I should
not be lying here now.'

You are probably aware of one fact, one
most unhappy fact which she deplores as much
as you. But she is an angel, not a woman !
You do not know what her life has been
during the last two years,  since your marriage,
I mean.'

Zeph was silent for a moment  for a moment
the doctor's earnestness awed her in spite
of her better knowledge. He evidently looked
on Hester as ' a thing enjoyed and sainted,'
and Zeph felt that any ill words or evil accusations
would glide off the pure and holy image
of her which he had set up in his mind, leaving
on it no mark or defacement.

And then you must not forget that she
loved him very truly,' added the doctor.

Zeph hid her face in her hands, and once
more felt scorched to the heart with shame.
The doctor was doubtless thinking what Godfrey

had not scrupled to say, that when her
own life's history and Hester's were judged,
the Great Judge of all would say, ' Woman,
you had no right to condemn her ; her life was
purer than you own. It was you who sold
yourself, not she.' Zeph knew it  she felt it
she acknowledged it in all humility now.

I am not blaming her for what occurred
before I knew Godfrey,' she said, struggling
with a pain in her throat which hardly left her
the power of speech, ' I am not making myself
unhappy about that, but I do think she might

Might have left me my husband now,' was
what she was about to say, but for Godfrey's
sake she forced herself to be silent. The
doctor was ignorant of much that she knew ; if
he were not, he would not dare to exalt this
woman as a saint.

My dear child,' continued Dr. Simonds,
how unreasonable you are ! If you are not
distressing yourself about that, I can assure you
you have no other cause of distress ! '

On this Zepli's passion broke forth into
words, and she exclaimed, ' Doctor, how can
you uphold this wicked girl? She deceives
you ! Lie is unworthy of your kindness. I
did wrong  shamefully wrong, when I married
Godfrey  I know I did, but the wrong would
have been righted long ago, and he would
have forgiven me and we should have been
happy, if it had not been for this wretched
woman ! She never really left him  perhaps
I ought to say that he never really left her. I
was a fool not to know it  I never did know
it. I thought he loved rae, and me only.
Even when he offered to me, he was advertising
for her and trying to fid out where she
was. I myself saw tete advertisement in the
newspaper at the time, and did not know what
it meant, but the other day all was explained,
for I found this  as if I were not miserable
enough already, I found this ! ' So saying, she
went to her desk, and took out a rough copy
of a letter to the editor of the Twines dated
July 15 th, and signed, Godfrey Daylesford,

requesting that an announcement consisting of
four words only should appear at the top of
the second column in the supplement for one
month. The words were, ' Hester, you were
wrong,' and they were to be printed in capital
letters. The word month was corrected into
fortnight and then into three weeks, and that
was apparently why this copy had been discarded.


That announcement appeared even after I
was engaged to Godfrey. I read it myself.
Now, doctor, answer one question. If he
could put such an announcement in the Times,
at such a moment, was our marriage likely to
be happy ? Had I any chance ? '

My dear, I can explain it all  I can explain
it quite easily, but I would rather convince
you in another way.'

No one can convince me  everything
points to my place being filled by another
woman. He did find her  he found her soon
after we returned from abroad  I wish we
never had returned. I have never known what

it was to be happy since. That woman soon
regained her influence over him. She made
him take to his painting again. She paints too ;
(godfrey got a studio out of the house  far from
home, down at Chelsea, and she and he painted
there together. I was never allowed to eo,
lest I should see her. You do not know what
I have suffered ; and there is more  much
more. I have reason to believe that they went
to Paris together. I have proof of it  I know
she went. That is why I said I would never
live with him again, and made him go away.
He vent abroad, and she no doubt accompanied
him. I never expect to see him again.'

May I ring for your maid ? ' said the
doctor.

'You may do anything you like,' replied
Zeph, in despair. If he were so little affected by
her distress as to talk of ringing for maids, what
was the use of his coming to see her? ' You
seem to think nothing of what I have just told
you ! ' she said bitterly ; ' I repeat to you that
after I became engaged to him this advertise-vol.

III.

ment appeared in the Times. I read it myself
with the odd kind of fascination we have
for anything which closely concerns us, though
I had no idea then that it could concern me.
I knew no one of the name of Hester  I had
never heard this wretched woman's name.
Your days ago I found this paper in a book in
the library, and then the whole thing came back
to me, and I understood it, and now I do not
see how you can defend Hester Langdale ! '

Wait one moment,' urged Dr. Simonds.
If I show you Hester La,ngdale now in a place
which to my certain knowledge she has never
left for more than an hour since about three
weeks after your husband went off in such a
hurry to Santa Eulalia when he thought his
brother was killed in the earthquake, will you
believe what I have told you about her ? '

But can you ? ' faltered Zeph ; ' I don't see
how you can.'

I can, and I will. Here is your maid, tell
her to bring your bonnet, and what you wear
when you go out, and let me take you.'

Bring your mistress's things,' said he,
authoritatively, for he saw that Zeph shrank
from doing what he asked. ' My dear, I do
not wish you to do anything difficult or wrong.
Come with me, and you will see Hester Langdale
doing good womanly work which she has
been doing ever since she recovered from the
illness during which I attended her. She was
brought to St. Elizabeth's when she was ill, she
got to know the ways of the place  she was
penitent, broken-hearted, and entirely alone in
the world, and her hope was that by devoting
herself to work she might regain a certain
measure of peace.'

Ah ! ' murmured Zeph, gently, ' she was
suffering ! One forgets that even people of
this kind must suffer sometimes. But do you
mean that she has never left the hospital ? '

Never for more than an hour, and I do not
think that she has often been absent even so
long. She is fond of nursing  she feels of use
the patients like her, and their gratitude is
her only happiness. She might have had a



brilliant future, for she was a very clever
painter, but she laid down all earthly hopes at
the feet of God. Come, I will take you to her
ward. You can look at her, there is no need
to speak. I will do all the talking.'

Zeph still felt great repugnance.

"- My dear, you must come ! I insist on it.
You are one of the doubting people who are
only convinced by the evidence of their own
senses. Come  all that you will have to do
will be to stand by my side while I walk
through the ward ; I will give you my
arm.'

I will come,' said Zeph.

They were soon at the hospital, but already
her courage was almost gone.

Take me back,' said she, ' I shall faint  I
shall do something foolish ! '

Nothing of the kind ! ' said Dr, Simonds ;
'you will take my arm and walk quietly
through this ward with me  that's all. You
are not to speak, and you have a thick veil on
no one can recognise you.'

 Don't go near her, then,' pleaded Zeph.

They ascended the wide easy stairs and
came to a door. The doctor looked to see if
there were any fear of Zeph's breaking down,
and then entered a long, lofty, airy room. On
each side of it was a row of beds, pretty, pink-quilted
beds, set far apart from each other, and
all occupied. Each pillow was pressed by a
patient's head, and all looked very ill. Some
were sleeping, some writhing in pain, some
lying with dull apathetic eyes, fixed on what
seemed to. them to be vacancy. Had it
not been for the knowledge that these men
were ill, and some sick even unto death, the
ward would have seemed bright and cheerful.
Even Zeph was struck with the perfect order
and delicate cleanness. There were flowers
in abundance, and singing-birds, pictures and
prints. She took these things in at a glance.
They made up a background of which she was
conscious, though she was so touched by the
sight of so many suffering fellow-creatures that
for a moment she almost forgot what she had

come to do. Nurses were moving about,
performing this or that slight but precious
service.

'Hester is one of the nurses said the
doctor ; ' you will see her directly. I will
touch your arm when we come near her.'

Zeph looked at the nurses. They were
quiet, womanly, gentle-looking creatures, all
dressed alike in soft blue-and-white print
dresses, white caps, and large white aprons.
She saw one more pretty than any of the
others, and expected the promised signal, for
she had always thought of Hester as beautiful,
but the doctor walked quietly on until he came
to a bed where a poor man was lying, who was
evidently in great pain. A nurse was bathing
his forehead and hands with vinegar and water,
and so occupied with her task that she had no
eyes or thoughts for anything else. Zeph
could not see her face, but she saw a lock of
pretty brown hair peeping out under her cap.
The warning was given  that, then, was Hester
Langdale. Zeph's heart stood still.

How is he to-day ? ' asked Dr. Simonds.
Hester turned and gave the doctor a quiet
smile of recognition, and in a moment Zeph
received such an impression of angelic goodness
and purity that all ill thoughts of the woman
who bore the name of Hester Langdale were
banished at once and for ever. She was in this
world, but not of it ; her mind was filled with
noble thoughts, her heart with mercy and love.
The touch of her hand would surely bring help,
the sight of her face comfort.

God forgive me for wronging her ! '
thought Zeph ; ' I wish I could ever hope to behalf
as near heaven as she is.'

Hester's voice was soft and musical, and ina
few businesslike words she was informing
the doctor of his patient's exact condition.
The patient himself seemed afraid that she was
going to leave him.

You have done quite right, nurse,' said
Dr. Simonds, and passed on. He was afraid of
trying Zeph too much. Zeph did not feel it a
trial to be there now. She looked back, and

saw Hester once more completely absorbed by
her ministrations, and felt that her life was
holy, and that no one could approach her without
feeling prompted to kind deeds and good
thoughts. It never for one moment occurred
to Zeph that Hester was not beautiful  she was
most beautiful  she possessed that highest
beauty of all, a mind so good and noble and so
tenderly submissive to duty that no eye could
rest on her without being conscious of it.
Zeph walked on with the doctor, but she
turned more than once to look at Hester, who
was aware of nothing but the work she was
doing.

Shall we go ? ' enquired Dr. Simonds.

Yes, take me home', she replied. ' Please
take me home. Wait one moment, and then
let us go.' She went to the box for charitable
contributions and emptied her purse into it.
She took off some rings and dropped them in ;
then they left the place together. She threw
herself back in the carriage in utter self-abasement
; she despised her own miserably selfish

and suspicious character from the very bottom
of her heart.

Was I wrong ? ' said the doctor.

Zeph looked humbly in his face and
answered, ' Dear Dr. Simonds, no. I would
give all I possess to be as good as she is ! '

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

A MOST Strange LIKENESS.

The Sun may shine and we be col(J.  E. B. Browning.
A coeur hesse  Sombre et le silence.  Balzac.

Days passed  a week passed, and yet though
eph had professed entire belief in Hester,
and satisfaction at the result of her visit to
St. Elizabeth's, she still lay on the sofa, or
wandered about the house, looking the picture
of misery, and no one could induce her to
go out. Dr. Simonds was disappointed in her.
He had expected that the moment she found she
was tormenting herself without a cause, there
would be a strong rebound in the direction of
health, but instead of that she seemed more
desponding than ever. At first she had seemed
happy and at rest, but after an hour or two she
had reverted to her original gloom. The truth

was the unhappy girl had a reason for her
grief. Hester might be, and was, above suspicion,
but some one else was not, and it was
most terrible to Zeph to know that there was
this some one else. Who was the girl in ohve-
green who haunted the studio in Somerset
Place, and whose wearing apparel travelled in
Godfrey's portmanteau ? Zeph was wretched.
Polly was in despair at seeing her in such a
state, Agnes cross, and Dr. Simonds out of
patience. He had hoped everything from
giving this fanciful woman proof that she was
wrong, and she was as woebegone as ever, and,
what was worse, he could not persuade her to
tell him what was on her mind now. Polly
was with her continually ; in the midst of her
own happiness, Zeph's sorrow was a dark spot
which never could be overlooked.

House yourself, Zeph ! ' she said one
morning. ' House yourself, and you will soon
be all right again. Dr. Simonds says he has
convinced you that you were tormenting yourself
about something which was entirely imaginary,

and yet you go on doing it just the
same.'

'Dr. Simonds convinced me that I had
made a mistake on one point ; he never convinced
me that I had no cause to be unhappy ;
no one can do that  no one  besides, I think
he vp-as mistaken himself.'

Zeph ! Zeph ! ' exclaimed Polly, ' what is
the matter ? Why are you looking like that ? '

It was not surprising that Polly was
startled. Zeph, whose sofa was very near
the window, had started up, ill as she was, and
was standing clasping her forehead with both
hands, and her eyes were ablaze with indignant
astonishment.

My dearest Zeph ! ' again said Polly,
what is it ? what do you see . ' She did not
content herself, however, with making these
enquiries, but hastened to her sister's side.

There ! ' exclaimed Zeph, pointing to the
portico, ' there she is ! You ask me why I
am so unhappy, that is the woman who is
making me miserable ! There, standing at the

.door, that is Hester Langdale  there are two
women of the name. I was sure there was
some mistake.'

Polly looked and saw a tall graceful girl
dressed in olive-green, standing outside by the
door, and patiently waiting till her modest
knock was attended to.

Who is she ? Zeph, what can you mean ? '
asked Polly.

Oh, don't ask me about her how dare
she come here ! ' said Zeph, hoarsely, and then
as her feet refused to bear her any longer, she
sat down on the edge of the sofa and pressed
both hands to her heart. But she heard the
great door of the house open, and sprang to
her feet again in time to see the girl outside
in earnest conversation with the servant, and
then she seemed to yield to a suggestion that*
she should enter the house. Zeph heard the
heavy door close again with a dull sound, and
knew that she and this woman were now
beneath the same roof What was about to
happen ? How could she dare to do this !.

The footman now came to ask if Mrs.
Daylesford would kindly give him Mr. Dales
present address.

I cannot,' replied Zeph, hoarsely ; ' he is
moving about.'

The servant retreated, and probably had
to answer a number of questions, for if the
girl had left the house Zeph must have seen
her. After what seemed a very long time,
measured as it was by the throbbing pulsations
of a heart excited almost beyond the
point of endurance, Agnes came and said, with
perfect calmness, and something of the manner
of a person who has already had more trouble
than enough about a matter of no importance :
Zeph dear, I would not trouble you if I could
help it, but do you happen to know anything
about a green serge cap ? There is a girl in
the hall who wants one which she thinks ought
to be found somewhere among Godfrey's possessions.
I have been looking round for it, but
do not seem able to see it anywhere.'

Zeph looked petrified. Agnes stood wondering

why this very simple question should
produce such a starting effect.

My dear Zeph,' said she, ' you are ill I
know, but don't give way to nervousness ; I
only want an answer to a very simple question ;
but after all, I don't suppose you know anything
about the poor girl's cap.'

Don't trouble yourself about it I ' said
Zeph. ' Tell Charles to say that no one
knows where it is, and that she must go at
once.'

Agnes stared at her  Zeph was speaking so
angrily  she was so unlike herself.

I think it is a person called Hester Langdale
' she began.

Well, perhaps it is, but she ought to have
her cap if she wants it. Poor girl, she does
not look as if she could afford to lose it,' said
Agnes, pleadingly.

Zeph rose indignantly and made a few
steps towards the door.

Polly laid a restraining hand on her arm
and made her sit down, and then said to Agnes,

'Tell Zeph more about this: who wants the
cap, and why she thinks it is here, I mean.'

It is a girl who sits to Godfrey for the
picture he is painting at the studio who wants
it,' Agnes replied quickly, ' a model she calls
herself and she wants it because it is hers.'

A model ! ' exclaimed Zeph ; ' but I did
not know that when people talked about a
model they meant a real girl. I thought a
model was a thing they sometimes call a lay
figure  but that accounts for so much ! '

You must tell me what to do,' said Agnes,
she is waiting outside, and we have kept her
so long. She has heard that Godfrey has gone
abroad, and so, as he cannot want the cap
now, and as it goes with the dress she is wearing,
she would like to have it. She is quite
civil about it, dear, and wishes me to say that
if it was likely to be of any further use to Mr.
Daylesford, and he wanted to keep it, he was
most welcome to do so ; but she does not seem
to think that likely, as he is away.'

Use to Godfrey ! What can she mean ?

enquired Zeph, who still spoke with great difficulty,
but looked calmer.

It seems that it is a peculiar shade of green,
one that Godfrey admires very much, and he
wanted, if possible, to get some Indian silk of
the same colour to make a dress for his model
for this picture, or for some other picture  for I
forget the exact words  and he employed this
Hester Langdale  wasn't that the name you
called her?  to search a number of shops in
Oxford Street and Regent Street to see if she
could find the silk in London, but she could
not, so when he went to Paris  not last time,
you know, but the first time  he borrowed
Hester's cap and took it with him to see if he
could get what he wanted there.'

During this lengthy explanation, Zeph's
face had been a perfect study  its expression
had gradually changed from abject misery to
timid anxious hope. She turned to Agnes and
said: 'Tell some one to look in Godfrey's
dressing-room.'

I won't ask you to explain what has passed,

VOL. III. P

but I can see that you are much happier for it
said Polly, when they were alone.

No, don't ask me to explain anything yet,
I could not do it if you did ; but I will tell
you one thing ; I was wicked enough to think
that this girl was abroad with Godfrey now.
Suppose I have been as mistaken in everything
else as in that ? '

No doubt you have ; go and see her yourself,'
urged Polly ; ' ask her a few questions,
and '

I speak to Hester Langdale ! ' exclaimed
Zeph. ' Impossible ! '

Agnes came dancing in with the cap ; Zeph,
alas ! had seen it before ; how she wished she
had never done so; what misery it had cost
her!

I want Zeph to go and say a few words
to this Hester Langdale,' said Polly, 'but
she '

Hester Langdale ! That's not her name,'
interrupted Agnes. ' I asked her what it was
as I came past, and it is Juliet Merrick.'

Are you sure ? ' said Zeph.

At all events she says so, and it is what
Godfrey calls her. She showed me a note he
had written her from Paris when he went back
last time. He sent her a five-pound note, and
said that he released her from all engagement
to sit to him, for he was going to travel about,
and did not intend to return to England for
many years.'

Zeph was now looking as white as her dress
and utterly exhausted by this most trying scene.
Polly made Agnes a sign to cut it short. She
was afraid Zeph would be really ill. Agnes
went to give the girl her cap and dismiss her,
and Zeph and Polly were again alone. Zeph
sighed deeply ; was it a sigh of complete fatigue
and disheartened, or was it a sigh of relief
and hopefulness ?

You said that Dr. Simonds knew this girl,'
exclaimed Polly, with a sudden remembrance
of what isle had been told. ' Ask him about
her when he comes ; he will be here soon ; I
heard him say so.'

p2

Do I know a model called Juliet ?  I suppose
you mean Juliet Meyrick ? ' said he, later
in the day, when he came. ' Of course I do.
Polly asked me about a slim red-haired girl I
had been speaking to somewhere lately, but
she forgot to say she was an artist's model. If
she had given me that clue I could have told
her all she wanted to know at once. Juliet is
one of the best girls in the world. I will tell
you her story. Her father was an architect, a
very clever fellow indeed, who was just beginning
to make his way when he died.  He left
a wife, who had an incurable illness, and two
daughters almost entirely unprovided for.
Juliet had a lover ; a poor man, but he was
ready to share his means with her. She
would not desert her mother. Juliet tried to
earn her living by her pencil. This threw her
among artists and people of that kind, and she
soon found that she ,OuM earn more as an
artist's model than by painting, and she now
keeps her motherhumbly enough, but they
are very happy. I know them thoroughly well.

Mrs. Meyrick was in the hospital, and I got to
know them all. Juliet, no doubt, has been
sitting to your husband, and if so he has been
fortunate in his model. She is very pretty, and,
as I have said before, as good a girl as ever
lived.'

Zeph could not speak, her feelings overpowered
her. The vast edifice which she had
so carefully built up of base suspicions had
suddenly crumbled away before a few words of
truth. She had tormented herself, her husband,
and every one about her for nothing. She had
driven away her husband and lost his love.
She felt as if she should like to journey forth
on foot over rough places and smooth, and take
no rest until at last she had found him, and
could throw herself at his feet, and beg for
pardon. Dr. Simonds left her, and she sat for
some time woefully contemplating the prospect
which lay before her.

Mr. Blackmore is here, ma'am, and wishes
to see you,' said the footman, breaking in on
her melancholy occupation. She went slowly

into the breakfast-room, feeling mortified at the
thought that even this man knew that she and
her husband were separated for life. She was
so ashamed of what he must be thinking of her
that she could not look him in the face. He
bowed ; she was conscious of that, though she
never raised her eyes. He said, ' Madam, I
come once more, by Mr. Godfrey Daylesford's
request, to see if I can be of any assistance to
you. I have brought a cheque-book, which
Mr. Godfrey Daylesford hopes you will not
scruple to use whenever you are in need of
money.'

Zeph gathered with pain that in this man's
mind the word husband was inapplicable 
Godfrey was henceforth to be Mr. Dales
to her. Mr. Blackmore was right. She
was no longer anything to Godfrey  she
told herself so, and tried to accept the fact
'bravely ; then she said, still without raising
her eyes, 'I would rather know how much
I am expected to spend. Can you not :l
a sum ?  I do not wish it to be a large one ;

in fact, I will not accept more than is absolutely
necessary.'

I do not imagine, madam, that Mr. Godfrey
Daylesford has any desire to limit you.
Of course there is a limit at which I myself
should feel bound to utter a word of warning,
or remonstrance, but you are not likely to
overstep it.'

Thank you, but I much prefer a fixed
allowance.'

'I can understand that, madam, and when
I have an opportunity will communicate your
desire ; but that will not be for some time, and
I am sure Mr. Godfrey Daylesford does net
wish '

But I wish  ' interrupted Zeph, ' I wish
to have as little as possible ; ' and as she spoke
she lifted her eyes to her lawyer's face, and
started when she saw it, for, feature for feature,
and line by line, save for the difference between
middle age and old age, she saw before her the
little brown gentleman she had met in the
gallery at Berkhampstead on the first night of

her arrival there. ' Mr. Blackmore,' she said,
in the utmost surprise and alarm, ' you have no
idea what a shock you have given me I '

You must excuse me,' he replied ; ' I am
but obeying instructions. I know this is a
painful business  most painful  these things
always are, it is their nature to be so; but
everything shall be done that lies in my power
to spare your feelings. Mr. Godfrey Dales
wishes it  I wish it myself, madam.'

It is not that,' replied Zeph, hastily, for it
was terrible to have this little legal gentleman
fingering her heart-wounds so freely ; ' it is not
that; don't let us say anything about that. It
is a most strange likeness. It is wonderful that
I did not notice it when I saw you before ! '
and Zeph's heart sank as she recalled the time
when she had last seen him. It was just before
her marriage, and he had read some papers
aloud in her presence ; her mind had probably
then been so occupied with other thoughts that
she had never so much as looked at him. ' Do
tell me something,' said she, eagerly. ' Your

father was a lawyer too, I know ; did he wear
brown clothes, and was he a pleasant-looking
man, with straight grey hair, and was he rather
stout and short, and did he wear a shade over
his left eye and a double eyeglass ? '

So far as your description goes, it is perfectly
accurate said Mr. Blackmore'; 'but I did
not know that you had ever seen him. He
died more than four years before your marriage
with my client, Mr. Godfrey Daylesford. He
died on February 7, 18 '

Zeph sighed ; these recollections involved
other recollections which were far from making
her happy, but the subject was so interesting to
her that she could not pursue it. ' Yes, and
it was on February 7, just four years later, that
I first went to Berkhampstead.'

Indeed, madam ! ' said the lawyer, with
very faint interest.

Yes, that was the very day, and I was in
the great gallery at one o'clock that night, or
rather that morning, and I saw a gentleman who
was exactly like you, only dressed differently,

and of course much older. He was walking
slowly along the gallery with a candle in his
hand, the light fell on his face, and I saw it perfectly,
and besides that, I saw a photograph of
him next day. I remember it distinctly, and I
remember too that Godfrey  Mr. Daylesford, I
mean  seemed anxious to change the subject
whenever I asked about this gentleman whom I
had seen. Mr. Blackmore, I must have seen
your father's ghost.'

We should have to believe in ghosts,
madam, before we could admit that,' replied
the lawyer, coldly. ' One thing that makes your
story curious is that it was the anniversary of
the day on which my father died  indeed it
was the very hour. Stories of this kind are
undeniably curious, but they are nothing more.
There is nothing in them  there never can be
anything in them. To return to business : you
understand, I hope, that Mr. Godfrey Dales
wishes you to remain in this house and
to have a liberal income. I believe I may
take it on myself to say that he is prepared tolet

you draw to the extent of two thousand a
year.'

Then let me assure you that I am not
prepared to do anything of the kind,' answered
Zeph, decidedly. ' It is very kind of him, but
I shall only spend what is absolutely necessary.
Did you ever hear of any one else seeing this
apparition ? '

Never ! ' replied Mr. Blackmore. ' I
should imagine that you had heard a description
of my father, or seen the photograph you
speak of, and fancied '

Oh no, I fancied nothing  I saw a figure
which looked exactly like a real person  and
it is very strange ! '

Oh ! ' exclaimed Mr. Blackmore, suddenly,
I had forgotten something ! You asked me
just now if I had ever heard of any one else
seeing the same appearance, and I said no ; but
my sister once did  I forgot it when you asked
me. I have a great contempt for ghosts and
ghost stories, and they slip out of my mind.'

Do tell me about your sister,' said Zeph.

'What did she see? I have a very particular
reason for wishing to know.' She had
begun to think that this apparition had come
to afford some clue to the discovery of the
papers which were so important to the family
happiness.

I will tell you all I can remember said
Mr. Blackmore, with the lofty air of a man of
science talking down to a person who was the
prey of weak and superstitious beliefs. ' As I
said before, I soon dismiss such stories as these
from my mind. My late father used to go to
Berkhampstead four or five times every year to
receive rents and arrange business matters connected
with the estate. On one occasion he took
my sister with him  she was not well, and he
thought that a few days' change would do her
good. It was in the old lord's time of course,
but he was not at home, and no one was in the
castle but the servants. My sister was put into
a large sombre-looking bedroom with windows
towards the garden, and the housekeeper had
been so foolish as to tell her a great many

stories before she went to bed, which frightened
her. These were all about a farmer's daughter
who had married one of the noblemen who
owned the estate, years and years before.
This girl had never been well received by the
county, and when she died had, by some odd
caprice of her husband's, been buried in the
garden. This Lady Berkhampstead was said to
haunt the castle, and the silly old housekeeper
told my poor little sister, who was only a child,
so many stories of her having been seen here
and there about the rooms and corridors, that
the unfortunate girl was afraid to go to bed.
The castle is, as you know, a great rambling,
gloomy-looking place, and you can perhaps
excuse a young person feeling nervous ? '

Indeed I can,' replied Zeph, with great
interest ; ' I was nervous myself at first ; I have
gone through the whole thing myself. Do tell
me more.'

My sister had been spending the evening
with the housekeeper, for my father was too
busy to have her with him, and did not Hke

her to be alone. He was sitting in the library,
busy with accounts and looking over papers,
and the housekeeper had used the time to such
good purpose that, when bedtime came, my
little sister was terrified at the thought of being
left alone, and longed to ask the housekeeper to
sleep with her, but was too shy. At last she
ascertained that her father was to sleep in a
room near hers  that cheered her a little, and
she went to seek him to see if he were ready to
go. He said he should not be long, so she
went away in tolerable comfort ; but no sooner
was she in bed than she was filled with terror.
She tried to shake it off, but could not ; and at
last got up, lit a candle, partly dressed herself,
opened the door, and stood waiting till her
father came upstairs. She has so often described
all this to me that I am able to tell it
to you exactly as it happened. She said that
she seemed to stand by that half-opened door
for hours. She thought her father would never
come. At last she heard a distant door shut,
and a sound of distant footsteps which gradually

came nearer, and she saw her father ascending
the stands at the end of the long gallery, and
then coming slowly towards her. He came
nearer and nearer, and then she drew back a
little, for he looked very stern, and she was
afraid that he would be angry if he saw that
she had not gone to bed ; but she held the
door ajar, and peeped, and still watched him
advancing towards her. Suddenly, and without
the least warning, she lost sight of him
altogether, and to this day is unable to explain
how. She was so startled by his strange disappearance
that she almost screamed. She
stood pressing her hands to her heart to still
its beating, waiting, and watching for a longtime,
but all was quiet, and after this she
saw no more. At last she crept back to
bed, and I believe ended by falling asleep ;

but '

But, my dear Mr. Blackmore exclaimed
Zeph, panting with excitement, ' it is exactly
what I saw, and what I felt! She had the
same bedroom that I had, and she saw just

what I did. Do tell me how you explain this
story?'

I don't attempt to explain it ; I don't
think there is anything to explain. I suppose
she saw my father going to bed, and when she
lost sight of him, he had turned into his own
room  my sister had mistaken the position of
the door, that's all. The whole story, to my
mind, is much ado about nothing! I only
ventured to tell it because you seemed to wish
to hear it.'

'Oh, thank you,' replied Zeph, eagerly, ' I
am so interested ! Of course I see that there
is some reason for your explaining away the
apparition seen by your sister, for she could
not see your father's ghost when he was still
alive, and she might have made a mistake
about the situation of his room ; but how do
you account for what I saw ? '

'You were probably in a highly nervous
condition at the time, and had worked yourself
up into such a state of excitement that your
imagination might readily play you false, and

lead you to suppose that you had seen this
figure.'

'Granted that imagination is able to perform
such wonders,' said Zeph, doubtfully,
how could it place before my eyes the figure
of a man v/hom I had never seen, Yith such
absolute fidelity to truth that when I describe
him to you you recognise him, and if I were
able to draw, I could reproduce each feature
with complete accuracy ? '

You had seen a photograph  you mentioned
a photograph.'

I did not see that till next day. I picked
out the photograph of your father at once,
though it was among some hundreds.'

'Probably, without your remembering the
fact, you had turned over the book it was
in the night before. Consider what you are
taking for granted if the thing did not occur
in some natural way such as I suggest. You
would believe, and have me believe, that the
spirit of my father could once more call back
to its use the perishable body it inhabited when

VOL. III. Q

on earth, and besides this, you ask me to
believe in ghosts of brown clothes, and black
shades, and eyeglasses  and all for what end 
for what end ? Why, for none whatsoever ! '

Zeph's mind was in a whirl. How could
Mr. Blackmore say for no end whatsoever ?
What right had he thus to decide what might
or might not lie within the power of one who
had been snatched from earth with a great duty
left unfulfilled ? Old Mr. Blackmore had gone
to Berkhampstead on an important errand.
The fate of many hung on words which he
alone could utter. He had suddenly been
struck down by mortal illness, but during the
terrible hours when he lay as it were between
two worlds, belonging to neither, who can say
how his mind had been tortured by his incapacity
to perform the service which none but he
could perform? Zeph did not look on these
questions as Mr. Blackmore did  to her mind
it seemed by no means beyond the bounds of
possibility that his father's spirit might haunt
the scene of unfulfilled duty, knowing no rest

until the secret of which he was the sole keeper
was laid bare. She had been thinking of this
so earnestly that she had forgotten she was
keeping the lawyer waiting  when she remembered
him, she saw that he was gazing at her
with an amused smile. ' We shall never agree
on this subject,' said she, ' but you must own
it is strange.'

Yes, but probably the key to it is lying
very close at hand.*

That is wdiat I seem to feel,' said she,
flushing with hope ; * that is what made me so
thoughtful.' But she meant something very
different from what he did. He took up his
hat, and then Zeph, who saw that all opportunity
of learning anything about Daylesford
was on the point of vanishing with him, made
a great effort, and said nervously, ' You correspond
with Mr. Daylesford ; where is he ? '

He was at Santa Eulalia when he wrote,
but was going to Siberia and various parts of
Russia ; intimately, I believe, he meant to go to
India, and I think Japan.'

q2

Will you say I asked about him ? ' said
Zeph, trying to speak calmly.

I will, when I have an opportunity, but I
do not expect to hear anything more of him for
some months.'

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

'I WAS NOT WORTHY  SHE WAS.'

You have taught me
To be in love with noble thoughts.'  Old Play.

The key to this mystery is probably lying very
close at hand.' Those had been the lawyer's
words, and Zeph felt that they had a strange
significance. They chimed in so exactly with
certain thoughts which had taken possession of
her own mind while Mr. Blackmore was repeating
that story of his Httle sister's night at the
castle. All the time he was speaking, Zeph
had felt like one on the verge of a discovery.
She was persuaded that materials for this discovery
lay all but within her reach if the eyes
of her mind could but be opened to perceive
them. The ghost  she believed it was a ghost
had appeared to her no doubt as a token that

she was the person appointed to find the papers
which would bring such happiness to the
Daylesford family, and this thought gave her
immeasurable comfort. 'I would give all the
world to do it,' she said to herself ; ' I might
then perhaps venture to go to my dear husband
and show him my true heart. Armed with
these papers I should have an excuse for going
to him, and once in his presence I would
humble myself, and I think all would be well.'
From early morning till late night she
thought of nothing else. She tried to weave
some connection between what had been seen
by Mr. Blackmore's little sister and what she
herself had seen ; and often she felt as if the
secret were in her grasp, and then it slipped
away from her, and she was left comfortless
and hopeless. Thinking so intensely on this
one subject kept her from being entirely miserable.
Had it not been for the conviction that
what had been hidden so long was about to be
revealed to her, she would not have known how
to hold up her head. It was strange how completely

this had taken possession of her. She
sat twisting and turning all she had heard or
knew into every possible shape, and calling on
Polly and Agnes and Dr. Simonds to help her.
She would listen to no discouragement. Dr.
Simonds nearly lost her favour because he ridiculed
"the idea of believing in. ghosts ; but she
found a firm ally in her own father, who stoutly
maintained that every great family in England
had a well-authenticated ghost story ; and that
in Holland House, which was within a walk of
Lome Gardens, as well as of Ambassadors' Gate,
there were no less than three ghosts under one
roof.

Zeph awoke one morning with a strong wish
to go to Berkhampstead. She regarded this
wish as heaven-sent, and a further proof that
she was the chosen agent of discovery.

Is it open to me to go to the castle for a
day or two ? ' she wrote to Mr. Blackmore.
 I mean, do you suppose my husband would
have any objection to my going?' She had
written the word husband unawares  she had

not the heart to take another sheet of paper
and write more in conformity with the style
adopted by the lawyer. ' He no doubt would
like me to say  "your chert, Mr. Godfrey
Daylesford," ' she thought ! ' but I cannot
bring myself to do it.' A tear fell on the
paper ; she brushed it away and allowed it no
successor. She resumed her letter, and wrote :
If you feel that I can go there without
doing anything contrary to his wishes, will you
kindly telegraph to the servants to expect
me? I shall take my little brother with me
and stay four or five days.' She instructed
her servant to wait for an answer. It was, of
course, affirmative, so Zeph went to Lome
Gardens to invite Jack. She was so excited
with the thought of what she was about
to do, that she went into the study without
knocking.

'My dear Zeph! ' said Mr. Treherne, 'How
well you look ! How is Godfrey ? '

Edward ! Godfrey is abroad ; how you do
forget things ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Treherne.

Ah, yes, so lie is, I forgot ; but you have
good accounts of him ? '

Zeph did not speak ; she felt, and always
had felt, that it would be cruel to distress her
father by telling him the truth.

I suppose he will soon be at home again,'
said Mr. Treherne. He did not observe her
hesitation.

I hope so,' she answered. ' I want Jack
to go with me to Berkhampstead for a few days.
I have seen so little of him lately. I think he
will like to go.'

Of course he will,' said her father. ' Shall
you drive there ? Do you remember how
delightful that drive was ? '

I am going by train, father,' Zeph replied
hastily. She was afraid of her voice betraying
her. ' I don't think I could bear to drive.'

It would be hot, I daresay,' said her
mother. ' It was rather cold when we went.
Do you remember when we did go . It has
escaped my memory.'

We went on February 7,' said Zeph.

Oh, how can you remember dates so accurately
? ' asked Mrs. Treherne. That date
was impressed on Zeph's memory as no other
date had ever been  how could she forget it ?

Of course she remembers it, Hester,' observed
Mr. Treherne. ' She might never have
been the happy little woman she is now if she
had not taken that long drive.' There was
nothing for Zeph to do but go away. Her
father knew nothing, but she was not quite so
sure about her mother.

What a grand lady you are now, Zeph ! '
said Jack next day, when they were seated in
the carriage which had come to Berkhampstead
Station to meet them. ' Do you recollect that
evening when you and I climbed up the railings
to see how beautifully Mr. Daylesford's dinner
was set out . '

Jack, you must never mention that ! '
exclaimed Zeph ; even in her grief she was
shocked at this recollection. ' Besides I didn't
climb, so don't ever say I did ; you pulled me
up before I knew what you were going to do.'

You were always wishing for nice pretty
things, Zeph, and now you have got them ; but
I believe Polly will be just as happy as you
are ! ' said Jack, who had always been an inveterate
partisan of John Simonds.

I sincerely hope dear Polly will be very
much happier than ever I have been,' replied
Zeph, fervently.

I hope nothing of the kind ! ' declared
Jack. ' I want her to be happy, of course ;
but I always did like you best.'

As they drove to the castle, Zeph unfolded
to Jack the object of her journey. She told
him as much about the lost papers as she could,
and enlisted his help. Jack had lately been
reading one of Edgar Allan Poe's stories describing
a search for a cleverly concealed letter.
He wanted to unrip the linings of curtains, and
cut to pieces stuffed furniture ; take up floors
and peer about for secret passages. His imagination
was thoroughly fired, and he was most
eager to begin his investigations.

Zeph was alarmed. ' You may search as

much as you like,' said she, ' but you must
injure nothing. Remember it is not our house,
and the servants '

Do you imagine that the retainers of the
family would venture to criticise any of our
actions ? We are their feudal superiors ! ' replied
Jack, impressively.

When Zeph arrived at the castle, however,
she was aware of a subtle something which
made her feel that the retainers of the family-were
well informed as to much that had taken
place, and knew that Mr. Godfrey's marriage
had turned out a distressing failure. They
were scrupulously polite and attentive, and an
different person would have seen nothing to
justify her belief, but from the moment Zeph
set foot in the house she was conscious that
she was under the ban of their censure. They
knew that she had behaved ill and disapproved
of her.

They may think what they like,' said Zeph
to herself. ' I don't care. I have not come
here to trouble myself about them. I have

something to do that is really important ! '
What was that something to be? Her heart
died within her when she thought how entirely
improvised she was with an answer to this
question. She remembered all that her
husband had told her of the thoroughness of
the search which had been conducted by him.
She would, however, bring her woman's wits
to bear on the matter, and would go into every
room in turn and examine places likely to have
escaped a man's observation. She began that
very day, and with Jack's help took out every
drawer of every cabinet and writing-table, and
looked behind each for papers which might
have slipped out of sight. No possible hiding-place
escaped her. Next day it was the same,
and then they went into the library. Godfrey
had told her how systematically the books
had been examined, but she was quite
sure that no man would examine books
with as much patience as a woman would
bring to the task.

A weary task it was ! That day and the

next they looked into the books and they
looked behind them, but they never found
what they wanted. All this work was not done
without the housekeeper seeing and quickly
divining what they were about. ' It is nothing
but a waste of work, ma'am ! ' said she ; ' there
is not a square inch of the whole castle that
has not already been well examined at least
half a dozen times by at least half a dozen
people.'

'Never mind, Mrs. Sanderson,' said Zeph,
doggedly, ' I have such a wish to try what I
can do ! '

Of course if you have a wish, ma'am  but it
will be no use,' said Mrs. Sanderson, oracularly.
When those papers are found it will be
because it is intended that they should be
found. No looking will do any good ! ' and so
saying she departed. Zeph greatly feared that
she was right, and yet the only thing that she
now seemed able to do for Godfrey was not tolet
herself be daunted by any fatigue or discouragement,
but to proceed with her search

strenuously. She was utterly weary, but her
excitement prevented her from knowing it.
On the fifth day of unremitting labour, she
remembered Jack. ' Dear Jack, you must be
tired to death ! ' said she.

Perhaps I am when I begin to think about
it,' said he, ' but what matter if we have the
glory of finding what no one else has been able
to find ! '

Jack, I begin to be very much afraid ! '
said Zeph, sadly. ' When the long bookcase at
the end of the room has been looked through,
we shall have nothing left to do. Go out,
dear ; I can do all that remains. I have been
very selfish to keep you indoors all this time.'

They had been five days at the Castle and
had never once gone out. Zeph did not want
to go out, or to see anything. If she had not
come with one paramount object, nothing
would have induced her to revisit a place
where there was so much to make her miserable.
Jack went out, and she continued her
task alone, and late in the afternoon turned

over the pages of the last book and knew that
all chance of success was over. She had failed
in her search, and would have to go home next
day as she came, carrying with her the knowledge
that she had thrown away the happiness of
her life by indulging in stupid, ill-tempered, mad
jealousy. She sat on the steps in the library
in a state of complete despondency. Something
had emphatically told her she should
succeed, and yet here she was  alone, disappointed,
and profoundly miserable. No words,
too, could express her self-contempt and remorse.
She loved Godfrey  and she had
driven him away for ever. He was not Hkely
to return for years, and he could never, either
now or at any period of his life, look on her
as anything but a perverse, unloving, selfish,
suspicious creature, whom he had married
because he loved her, and who had repaid him
by ruining his life.

Jack came back late in the afternoon and
found her sitting looking pale and discomfited.
Found it ? ' was on the tip of his tongue as he

opened the library door, but it was enough to
look at her. He himself was in great spirits.
'I have been to the rectory,' said he; 'old
Scatch is away with mother Scatch, but some
of the boys are there. Old Scatch has gone to
look at a having which has been offered to him.
Benson says Mr. Daylesford has got some one
to offer it to old Scatch, and he is very likely
going to take it, Benson thinks. You know
Benson, Zeph ; he held up your what's-his-name
at your wedding  I mean helped me to do it,
for I was, of course, more of a principal person
than he .? Don't look so miserable, Zeph ; we
will have that paper yet I '

After dinner Jack made her go out ; he
said it was awfully jolly out in the garden, and
to please him Zeph let herself be taken the
same round that she had so often taken with
Godfrey. They walked by the fading light
through the solitary garden paths, and she
thought how happy she might have been.
That night when she went to bed an idea
occurred to her which comforted her a little.

VOL. III. K

She was walking through the long gallery
where she had seen ' the little brown gentleman
when this idea came to her. She had seen him
on February 7  the day of Mr. Blackmore's
death  and on the night of February 7 next
year she would watch in that gallery again, and
if that apparition appeared she would speak toit,
and follow it, even if it cost her her life.
She knew that she was a poor weak girl, but
for love of Godfrey she could nerve herself todo
so much as that.

I hate going home beaten,' said Jack, next
day. ' It was so jolly when we came here, for
we felt as if we were going to do such a lot.
Don't look like that, Zeph ! '

Zeph did her best not to ' look like that,'
but she felt utterly crushed, and though when
she was at home again she made a brave
struggle to resume her usual way of life, she
could resume nothing but the sorrow and
suffering that now seemed to have made their
own of her. ' I am quite well, thank you,'
said she, when asked how she was ; ' there is

nothings to be anxious about.' She did not
like to be asked how she was, or noticed in
any way, and generally took a book and pretended
to read. Both her doctors were now
more concerned about her than before. They
wished her to go from home, to travel, to do
anything in fact that might shake off the
weight of depression that seemed to be settling
down on her ; but she refused to leave home.
She seemed to rouse herself a little when Polly's
marriage took place, but she soon relapsed
into her usual condition. Sometimes Agnes
stayed with her, but more usually Zeph preferred
to be alone.

One evening about nine, she was told that
a person was in the breakfast-room who particularly
desired to see her. ' But who is she ? '
asked Mrs. Daylesford.

It is a lady, ma'am  at least, I think she is
a lady. She says she wishes to speak to you
on a matter of extreme importance.'

Why do you let people of this kind into
the house, Charles ? ' said Mrs. Daylesford, frets

2

fully. ' You surely ought to know that she has
only coKie here to beg.'

I don't think she has, ma'am  at least, if
she has, it is Dr. Simonds who has sent her, or
advised her to come.'

Then why didn't you tell me so at
once ? ' said Zeph. ' Bring her here, please.'
And then she thought, ' Perhaps it is that poor
girl who is a model, Juliet  JuHet Meyrick  I
will be kind to her if it is, for I did her a
great injustice.'

The footman soon returned ushering in
tall graceful lady dressed in dark grey, whose
face was almost hidden by a veil. Zeph rose
to receive her. She stood hesitating by the
door. Then she spoke, and Zeph immediately
became aware that this was Hester Langdale ;
but she felt no repugnance to the sight of her 
to wish to escape from what was about to be
said  something in the speaker's voice and
manner conquered her at once.

Forgive me for thus intruding,' said
Hester, coming rather nearer, but pausing at a

little distance from Mrs. Daylesford, who was
standing with one hand resting on a chair by
her side ; ' I hope you will forgive me ; my
hope is to be of service to you. Dr. Simonds
has talked of you very often lately, and has
told me of your desire to be the means of
discovering thee papers which are so important
to your husband and his family. Dr. Simonds
told me of the appearance seen by you in the
long gallery at Berkhampstead Castle, and also
of what occurred to Mr. Blackmore's little
daughter. I have thought a great deal about
everything that he has told me. I seem to
have spent night after night in thinking of
nothing else. And at last I think I have
perhaps hit upon a solution of what you both
saw, which, with the addition of a fragment of
evidence I myself am able to supply, may
possibly help you to put your husband in the
way of finding what has baffled him so long.'

Zeph's heart stood still  it was too good to
be true. Then just because she wished for
this so much, a slight feeling of mistrust took

possession of her, and she said, 'Why do you
wish to give this information to me ? '

Hester wavered a little. Mrs. Daylesford's
words seemed almost cruel. She could say all
that seemed necessary in a methodical, straightforward
manner, but when suddenly checked,
or made to see that she was acting in a very
unusual way, her courage failed her at once.
To whom should I give it,' she answered
sadly, ' if not to you ? Dr. Simonds ridicules
me for seeming to recognise the existence of
ghosts  he would not listen to me for a
moment. If I had not come to you I must
have kept this to myself  I might, perhaps,

have gone to your lawyer, but ' and here

she seemed to take courage. ' But I am not
speaking truly  I had another reason for
coming to you ; if I tell it to you I entreat
you not to be angry with me, or pained  I
seemed to gather from what Dr. Simonds said
that you were ill and unhappy  very unhappy,
and that some difference had arisen between
you and some one dear to you, and it seemed

to me that if I could come to you and persuade
you to listen to certain fancies which have
come into my head, and to act on certain suggestions
which I wish to make, that perhaps
I might be doing you a service  and doing
him one too, for no doubt he is as unhappy as
you. That is all,' said Hester, humbly, ' that
is what made me venture to come.'

You are very good ! ' exclaimed Zeph,
warmly. ' No ! good does not half express it.
You are very generous, and I am unworthy
of '

Let me tell you what I think,' interrupted
Hester, and it seemed as if she were in great
fear of her courage giving way. ' Let me tell
you all, and you shall judge whether I am
right in being so sanguine of success. I earnestly
trust that I am not comforting myself
with a vain hope and misleading you.'

But do sit down,' said Zeph, giving her a
chair, for up to this time the two girls had
been standing, and Zeph, who was so nervous
that she was scarcely able to keep her feet, had

little doubt that Hester was feeling as she did.
Tears rose to Hester's eyes, but she recovered
herself in a moment. ' Thank you,' she said,
with a slight shiver of dismay. ' I will not sit
I had rather not  I could not  I am only
going to stay a moment, only until I have told
you what I came to say.'

Zeph, full of pity for her, advanced a little
nearer. Hester said nervously, ' Take no notice
of me, I entreat you. Let me say what I wish
to tell you  I must do it in a businesslike
manner, or I cannot do it at all. Dr. Simonds
said that when you were at Berkhampstead, on
the anniversary of Mr. Blackmore's death, you
chanced to be in the long gallery about midnight,
and you saw an old gentleman dressed
in brown, and wearing a shade over the left eye,
coming, candle in hand, along the gallery towards
you, and that you, thinking he was a
visitor to the castle, and knowing that you
were in a fancy dress which would seem strange
to him, drew back a little till he passed, but
that he suddenly disappeared, and you, after

speaking of this at breakfast next morning,
and receiving some explanation which seemed
sufficient, thought no more of what you had
seen.'

That is quite true. I was easily led to
believe that I had seen an old friend of the
family, and I always did think so until some little
time ago when I had a visit from the present
Mr. Blackmore, and was so startled by the likeness
between him and the gentleman I had seen
in the gallery, that I made enquiries of him.
Ah ! what a great deal of disappointment this
caused me, for I began to think that the apparition
in the gallery would lead to the discovery
of the secret.'

So it will, I hope ; I believe it has put the
clue in my hands.'

In your hands ! ' exclaimed Zeph, with
exquisite pain, and then she bowed her head
and thought, * I was not worthy to do it ; she
was.'

Yes,' said Hester, ' I think so. I hope so.
Let me go on. Your lawyer told you that his

sister when young had gone through an experience
of the same kind, only it took place
during her father's lifetime.'

Yes,' replied Zeph, ' he said so  that was
what puzzled me. Why should she see her
father's ghost while he was still alive ? '

That is what gave me the clue,' said
Hester, 'not at first, but after some thought.
His little sister saw her father walking through
the gallery, and he suddenly disappeared. I
take that to mean that he was actually there.
He had gone down to the castle on business ;
and late at night, when he expected the whole
household to be asleep, he visited some secret
hiding-place where these important papers were
kept. When he disappeared he had pressed
a spring, and entered some secret door. That
was the reason of his disappearance. The
figure she saw was her own father. It was
very different with you  at least I think so.
You may consider me superstitious, but you
know the circumstances under which the poor
old gentleman died. I cannot help thinking

that you saw his ghost paying a midnight
visit to the place which he was about to visit
when he died.'

I do believe there is something in it ! ' said
Zeph, trembling with excitement, 'I never
thought of this myself  I never should have
thought of it ; but you said you had other
proof.'

Yes,' replied Hester, speaking with much
effort, for this was a personal matter, ' I have, I
trust, more proof. Some years ago, Mr. Godfrey
Daylesford gave me a small embroidered velvet
blotting-book. It had been cut open in the
search for papers. Some papers were found
between the velvet and the boards, but it was
considered that they had only been put thereto
wedge out the embroidery, for after they had
been exposed to heat, and experimented on
with various acids, they were regarded as
valueless and left in the case. They were, for
the most part, sheets of blank paper, but one
had a kind of rough plan on it, and on re-examining
it, after hearing what Dr. Simonds told

me, I have come to the conclusion that it maybe
a plan of the long gallery and the rooms
opening out of it, and there is a something indicated
by lines of shading, which may be a narrow-passage,
and if so, it perhaps leads to a secret
chamber which may be the place where the
papers were kept.' Here, Hester, who had not
come to that house or into Zephyrs presence
without a violent effort, broke down and burst
into tears, but she struggled with herself and
tried to say more. Zeph was by her side in a
moment, and took her hand, saying, ' God forever
bless you, Hester Langdale, for what you
have done now ! I know why you have done it,
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
If you had not been good and generous, you
would not have come here. You know that I

and -' But here Zeph paused, she could

not add what she had meant to add, ' that
Godfrey and I are parted, and you are trying
to reconcile us.' 

Go to the castle with an architect,' said
Hester, 'and see if there is any ground for

what I have imagined, and you had better have
Mr. Blackmore with you, for he will take charge
of the papers if you are so fortunate as to be
successful.' Hester was hurrying through what
remained to do, for her strength was failing
fast.

Oh no, no, I cannot do that ; there is a
coldness about these professional men which
simply kills me. If I went there with them
and found nothing, I should be ill.'

You ought to have help. This secret
hiding-place must be very well concealed, or it
would have been found years ago. I hope this
is the plan, but I am sure no one but an architect
can understand it.'

I will go to Mr. Blackmore in the morning
and ask him to hold himself in readiness to
come to Berkhampstead with an architect next
day  but I must have a little time to look
about before they come  I must see if there is
any such place as you think. Let me go alone
first  I shall be better prepared for disappointment
if I do.'

Here is the plan, then,' said Hester, handing
her the blotting-book.

But you are giving me the whole thing ! '
said Zeph. 'I need not have the case  the plan
is quite enough for me.'

Take all,' replied Hester, gently, ' it is
more in its place in your hands than in mine.
And now I will go. I must thank you for
listening to me so kindly, and request you, if
you succeed, never to let any one know that I
have done anything to help you.'

Oh, don't ask that  it would be most
unjust  your goodness must not remain unknown
! '

I entreat you to yield to my wish. I could
not bear to have my name mentioned, or my
poor share in the discovery discussed. You
may say that I gave you the blotting-book if
you are obliged to say anything, but avoid it if
you can, and you must say no more. Promise
me this, or you will give me pain.'

I promise,' said Zeph, ' but I would much
rather tell the truth. I ought to tell it  you

have been so good and noble. As long as I
live, whether the papers are found or not, and
whatever happens, I shall be grateful to you.'

Don't praise me ! don't thank me ! You
have been very kind to me, and I feel your
kindness ! ' said Hester, fervently, and she
turned to leave the room.

Ah, you are going, and I can do nothing,'
said Zeph. She could not bear to see her go
thus, and hurrying to her side, took her hand
and said, ' God bless you ! Thank you once
more. I would give anything to be as good as
you are ! '

CHAPTEE XXXV.

IT IS A THING ON WHICH I HAVE SET MY HEART.

This day
Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.  Henry V.

Zeph was at Mr. Blackmore's office next
morning before he himself arrived there. Her
horses were impatiently pawing the ground,
and she was impatiently walking backwards and
forwards to make the time of waiting seem
shorter. ' I want to go back to Berkhampstead,'
said she, the moment she saw him, ' I suppose
there can be no objection  you must let me go
I shall not stay so long as I did before, I
hope, and I want to go this morning.'

Mr. Blackmore was astonished at the change
in her appearance. She was not like the same
person. She held her head erect, and her eyes
were bright with renewed hope. When he had

taken her into his room and heard as much as
she chose to tell him of the circumstances which
had wrought such a change, he felt it his duty
to crush this hope at once. ' I am sorry to say
anything to damp you,' said he, ' but if you had
the least idea of the character of the search instituted
by the two Mr. Daylesfords, my clients,
you would not for one moment entertain the
hope of succeeding where they failed.'

'I have heard something of it. Mrs.
Sanderson told me last time I was there, that
there was not one square inch in the castle
which had not been thoroughly examined at
least half a dozen times, by at least half a dozen
people.'

She told you the truth. No search could
have been more exhaustive.'

Did you look for secret chambers ? '

Secret chambers rarely exist, except in
novels ; but we did look for them, and had there
been any at Berkhampstead we must have
found them.'

Oh, but, Mr. Blackmore, I have a plan

VOL. III. s

which seems to point to the existence of something
of the kind. It may not be a room, but
it is certainly a passage, and surely there would
not be a passage unless it led somewhere. I
know that part of the castle so well that I am
quite certain no one knows of the existence of
any passage in the place in which it is marked
in the plan.'

In spite of himself the lawyer was slightly
startled. ' May I see this plan ? ' he asked
eagerly.

If I show it to you will you promise not
to take the task of looking for this room out of
my hands ? I wish to be the one to make the
discovery  it is a thing on which I have set
my heart. You must arrange for me to go
there with my brother, and to stay till I either
succeed, or give up all hope  I don't want you
to come until I summon you.'

Your wishes shall be respected,' said the
lawyer, bowing. ' But there is one condition
which I must make  I cannot allow you to
interfere with the fabric of the castle  no walls

must be pulled down unless I am there to
sanction it.'

Of course not ! ' replied Zeph, ' it will not
be necessary. I should not think of doing
such a thing; I will show you the plan.'

He got up to ring the bell to send some one
to the carriage for it  he expected to see a
large imposing-looking roll of paper backed
with linen for protection, and was wholly
unprepared to see Mrs. Daylesford take out her
purse and look in one of its pockets for half a
sheet of note-paper which she had folded up
small and placed there. That Alas the plan !
There was nothing but a few rough lines made
by a quill-pen  a child might have done it as
an amusement. He thought she had taken
leave of her senses. ' There is nothing even to
show that this has anything to do with Berk-hampstead
Castle,' said he, coldly ; ' any one of
us who where engaged in the search might have
had this paper in his hands a hundred times,
and have laid it down each time as a things of
no possible use or values

2

You did have it in your hands ! All of
you had it, and you all laid it down as valueless
! This may not be the clue, but any of
you may have had the real clue in your hands
just as often, and have refused to see any importance
in it. I may do no good when I am
there, but I want to go, and you must let me doit,
and remember that you have promised not
to come to me until I summon you.'

My dear Mrs. Daylesford, there is nothing
here to make me wish to reopen the search 
nothing ; I remember it now, perfectly. I
should not think of going. You are too
sanguine  you are preparing a great disappointment
for yourself Why should this
scrawl  for it is little more  be Berkhampstead
rather than any other place? It is only a
scrap of paper that was used as padding.'

Ostensibly it was, but that may have been
to hide it more securely. You say it is not
Berkhampstead, but it is. It is meant for the
long gallery and the rooms opening out of it.
Though it is only a scrawl, I can see that.

This is my bed-room  look, there are the
three windows at the end of it which look out
on the garden. Next comes a large room
which the housekeeper said was not used
because it wanted refurnishing ; the secret
room is on one side of it  that is, if I am right 
and after that the rooms my father and mother
had. The secret room seems only to be a long
slip between them.'

It is such a slip that it is no room at all,
it looks like nothing but a little thickening of
the wall by a bad draughtsman. A person
willing to see, can see anything he likes in a
scrawl of this description. It might just as easily
be explained into being a plan of this office.'

Zeph sighed.

L can give you another reason why this
cannot be what you think  a reason fatal to
your theory.'

Let me hear it  tell me quickly,' this
time she feared what he said was the fact.

The papers were concealed by Mr.
Daylesford. He wished them to be kept in

safety, but in some place where his father could
never find them. If there was a secret room,
the father would be quite as well aware of its
existence as the son, and if they had been
placed there the old man might have found
them at any moment.'

I am not convinced,' replied Zeph ; ' it
sounds convincing, but it is not. The Earl was
a very old man, he might have forgotten that
there was such a place, and his son might have
known that he had  most likely he did. Anyhow,
Lord Berkhampstead would never go toit.
Why should he ? Such places are dangerous,
they are not safe for old people, there
was nothing to take him to it, I expect that
Mr. Daylesford locked them up in some strong
box and left them there in all confidence.'

You are mistaken,' said Mr. Blackmore,
and yet, though his words were still incredulous
and scornful, he had become very grave and
thoughtful, and he stood gazing at the plan as
if he had more belief in it than he was prepared
to admit. 'I cannot help fancying that I have

seen this plan somewhere or other very recently,'
said he,  ' since I saw it in Mr. Cyril
Daylesford's blotting-book, I mean.'

Perhaps your father had a di;>licate copy.
If I am right, and it is what I think, your
father would be very likely to have one.'

Oh no, he had nothing of the kind, it is
only a fancy of mine that I have seen it,' said
he, giving her the sheet of paper.

My train goes at eleven,' said she, ' I
must leave you. I have two or three things todo
before I oro.'

c

Remember ! No pulling down of walls,'
said he, with a smile of benevolent superiority.

None ! You will come at once, if I telegraph
for you ? '

Oh, certainly I will. I will come without
fail,' said he, still smiling.

I really mean what I say,' said Mrs. Dales
 she was afraid that he did not. He
persisted in mocking her enterprise. ' You
must let no business here in London prevent
you.'

Nothing shall prevent me ! If you telegraph
for me, madam, I shall consider that
you have made some discovery so important
that every other engagement shall give way to
my business with you. I repeat, emphatically,
nothing shall prevent me.'

Zeph felt sobered at once. How could he
speak so? Had he forgotten his father, and
wiat had come to prevent him ? She was just
leaving the room when he said, ' Let me give
you one caution ; in the, I fear, highly improbable
event of your finding the evidence that
has been lost so long, be careful to place it
where there is no possibility of its being tampered
with  or, better still, make no examination
of it until trustworthy witnesses are with
you.'

I never thought of making any examination
at all,' said Zeph. ' You shall do that. All
I propose to do while I am alone is to ascertain
whether there is a concealed room or not.
As soon as I am sure of that, I shall send for
you and wait.'

Mr. Blackmore could not help smiling at
himself as he went back to his dingy room
after taking Mrs. Daylesford to her carriage.
He had actually at last been so led away by
her confident manner, that he had begun to
speak as if success were possible, whereas he
was perfectly convinced that there was not the
remotest prospect of it. He knew what had
been done at Berkhampstead already, and did
not believe that it was in mortal power to do
more. As for secret chambers, they were part
of the properties of the Minerva Press, and the
plan which had affected Mrs. Daylesford's
imagination so much was apparently the work
of a child. He was very busy, and had mighty
little time to think of the absurd imaginings of
a pretty, but empty-headed woman.' They
were absurd, and every time he had a moment's
leisure he told himself so, and yet all
through that morning, while he was mentally
pooh-cooling what was making her so happy,
a curious undercurrent of memory was at work
in his mind, and late in the afternoon, it

gathered force enough to make him exclaim,
I believe I have it ! ' He was now sure that
he had seen that plan, or its counterpart, within
the last twelve months, and he knew where.
It must have been among some papers of his
father's. He took a key and opened a drawer
in a writing-table which had been his father's,
and after some search he found a twin plan,
Line for line, so far as he could remember, it
exactly resembled that which Mrs. Daylesford
had shown him. He was so startled that he
turned cold. ' How that woman will exult
over us all,' he thought, ' if she succeeds where
we failed ! And I really do believe she will !
It begins to look as if she had got hold of the
key to the mystery at last ! ' Many hours
before he found his father's copy of the plan,
Zeph had lost hers. The station at Euston was
crowded, and some deft pickpocket stole her
purse with perfect ease and safety. She never
missed it, and went on her way buoyed up by
the possession of the paper.

My advice,' said Jack, ' is that before we

begin to eat our luncheon or do anything else,
we go into the long gallery and get to know
exactly Avhat it is like, and then we shall get to
know what things are likely to seem hard to
US, and can think how best to manage them
while we seem to be doing nothing.'

That's a good idea,' replied Zeph, cheerily ;
let us go.'

We may get to know where that door is
likely to be  perhaps it is behind some large
piece of furniture.'

I don't believe that there is any large
piece of furniture  in fact, I am sure there
isn't.'

They went upstairs at once. The wales of
the gallery were lined with panelled oak, and
not only was there no doorway visible, but the
panelling was so made that it was at once
evident that no cunningly concealed doorway
could exist.

Don't you see, Zeph, that there can't bea
secret door,' said Jack. ' If there was one
it would have to be cut through the middle

of one of these panels and every one would
see it.'

Zeph saw that he was right and that the
panelling was so arranged that concealment
was out of the question. And yet if there was
the slip of a room or passage indicated on her
plan, there must be some way of getting into
it. ' I will look at the plan,' said she, ' that
will no doubt give us some hint.'

Then she discovered her loss, and was so
cast down that she could eat no luncheon. ' It
looks as if fate were dead against us,' said she.

Nonsense ! ' said Jack. ' Don't you be
down-hearted. It's vexing, but that's all, and
there will be more honour and glory for us
if we succeed without it. I'll go and get the
key of that room they keep locked. We will
look there.' The shut-up room was a large,
dull-looking apartment between that which
Zeph had always occupied, and that in which
her father and mother had slept. There was
no reason for its being shut up except that the
hangings of the bed and coverings of the chairs

and sofas had grown shabby. It woidd not
have been shut up if the castle had been occupied,
but there were more rooms already than
were ever wanted, and this was not to be used
until it was refurnished. It was an oppressively
dull-looking room, and though Zeph and Jack
had examined it as they had examined every
other place when last they were there, it looked
as if the door had not been open for years. Alas,
this time also they found nothing to reward
their pains, though they tapped the walls on
every side.

How wide the walls are ! ' observed Jack,
when he was locking the door again. They
were wide. Zeph was in the gallery, and Jack
close by her in this deeply recessed doorway
which was big enough to make a tolerably good
closet. It was the only door in the gallery
which stood so far back.

I'll tell you what I think,' said Jack, ' when
you fancied you saw a ghost, some fellow was
just hiding in here  there is room enough to
hide, and no one who was a little farther along

the gallery would see him. How far off were
you?'

Oh, don't waste time on that,' replied Zeph ;
the person I saw did not hide  he was too
old and grave to play stupid tricks, and he
could not have gone into the room, for the door
was always locked then just as it is now 
Godfrey told me so.'

They looked through the other rooms 
they tapped the walls of the gallery to see if
they covered hollow spaces, they did everything
that their ingenuity suggested, but nowhere
could they find the slightest indication of a door.

We are going to be disappointed again,
Jack,' exclaimed Zeph ; ' I felt that we were
when I found my plan was gone ! It seems a
thousand times harder to bear this time ! '

They dined, and then went back to the
gallery to practise some newly thought of
devices, but darkness came and found them
as far from the wished-for knowledge as ever.
They were both thoroughly weary, and one of
them was well-nigh broken-hearted.

Come and sit down and rest,' said Jack,
taking his sister's hand and leading her away.
They went into the bright and comfortable
room which was waiting to receive them, bnt
Zeph could feel nothing beyond a cruel sense
of disappointment. She sat close by Jack  he
was all she had now, and she liked to have him
near her, but was too miserable to speak to
him. At last they went to bed. They were
too much dispirited to say, ' To-morrow we will
begin afresh.' They both meant to do it, but
only as a forlorn hope.

Zeph could not sleep. She was too unhappy
to close her eyes. She lay still thinking of
each successive event in her short, sad, and
most disappointing life.

About two o'clock an idea suddenly took
forcible possession of her mind : ' Why was
that one doorway set so far back ? Why was
it so different from all the others ? And why
did the wall seem so much thicker there than
anywhere else ? The wall which ran along the
side of the gallery was a good substantial one

she could judge of its thickness by what she
saw at the entrance of all the other rooms ; but
nowhere in the gallery did it present such an
appearance as in the disused bed-room. Suppose
the secret door were placed in the panelling
on one side of the doorway ? She lit a
candle and got up, put on her dressing-gown,
and went to look at this doorway which had
suddenly become so interesting to her. She
was rather afraid of the gallery, but it would
have been perfectly impossible to her to delay
the search till morning. A glance showed her
that there was just room for a door in the wall
between the door of the disused bed-room and
the gallery. Another glance showed her that
the oak-panelling was arranged rather differently.
And yet, after all, it was arranged in
the only way that was practicable in such a
narrow space. There were two oblong panels,
one set above another. Both sides of the
doorway were alike. Her recollection of the
plan she had lost made her turn to the side
nearest to the room in which her father and

mother had slept. Perhaps if she could but
find a spring, or the trick of setting some
machinery in motion, the whole of one side of
the doorway would open, and such a door, if it
existed, would certainly never be suspected by
a passer-by. Where was this spring ? What
was it F Two oblong panels, with plain but
deeply cut mouldings, do not present much
opportunity for hiding elaborate springs. She
pushed the centre of one panel  then that of
the other  then of the two together. After
this she put her hands on the mouldings and
tried to push them up or down, sometimes
together and sometimes apart  next she tried
to jjush them sideways. Nothing stirred.
Finally, after a long time spent in vain attempts
of all kinds, she touched a small round bit of
metal, concealed at the top of the moulding of
the upper panel. It was not bigger than the
head of a large nail. To her inexpressible
delight she found that this could be pressed
down. She did press it down, but it produced
no effect. She was by no means daunted by

VOL. III. T

this, more especially as she found that there
was no such knob above the moulding on the
other side of the way. She began to go
through all the operations she had already tried
with no result, but this time she combined
them with holding down the little knob. She
put her hand to the moulding, once more
pushed it laterally in the direction of the bedroom,
pressed down the knob at the same time,
and almost to her horror  for the result was
so immediate and unhoped for  the panelling
slipped noiselessly away and she saw a black
cavity before her. She leaned against the door
of the bed-room, and struggled with a disposition
to faint. She soon overcame this, and
took her candle to look, but could see nothing
but a long and very narrow passage with an
arched roof, cut in the thickness of the wall.
She dared not enter it alone, and hurried breathlessly
away to fetch Jack. He was sleeping
soundly, and looked so young, so beautiful,
and so happily removed from the troubles and
anxieties which were afflicting her, that, she had

not the heart to awaken him, for she knew how
weary he was. ' If I love Godfrey, I ought to
be able to venture into that place,' she thought.
I will just see if it leads anywhere, and then
go back to bed.' Animated by this thought,
she returned to the gallery, entered the narrow
passage, and, with a certain amount of trepidation,
walked a few paces forward. She was
checked by finding herself at the top of a long
and very steep flight of steps which seemed to
lead down to unknown depths. In still greater
alarm she ventured to descend these, holding
by the rough walls and scratching her hands
against them as she went. The air felt colder
and more chill each step she took. Finally,
she reached the bottom and found a door, which
she opened. It led into a long and narrow
space too small to be called a room, and
scarcely wider than an ordinary passage. The
walls were bare, and there was no furniture
but an old writing-table, on which stood a
strong-looking box of black oak, clamped with
iron. She remembered her promise and did

T 2

not attempt to open it, but a feeling of overpowering
joy and gratitude took possession of
her, for there, surely, must be the papers. She
dropped on her knees to return thanks for
heaven's bounty to her. She went close to the
table, but forbore even to touch the box. She
was firmly resolved that she would be in a
position to tell the lawyer that she had not
attempted to open it. Then she looked around.
On one side there was a rusty grate, on the
other a curious blurred light which was produced
by the dim grey light of early morning
struggling through a dense screen of ivy which
entirely covered the outside of the window.
Uttering mute but passionate prayers that the
box might contain what her husband wanted,
Zeph stole back to the gallery. She was able
to close the door ; all trace of her discovery
was removed, and now none but herself knew
that secret. She felt the danger of this, went
to her room, and wrote to her husband : ' If I
die to-night, Godfrey, before I am able to tell
any one what I have discovered, this paper will

inform you that the passage leading to the
secret room is near the entrance to the room
which is now never used.' Then followed a
minute description of the spot and directions
for opening the door, after which she added,
I wish you, my dear husband, to know that I
entirely loved and honoured you, and desired
your forgiveness more than anything else on
earth.' That done, she went to bed. She was
more happy than tongue can tell.

By five o'clock she had roused the servants
and had sent off one of them on horseback to
summon Mr. Blackmore. At eight she went to
Jack's little bed and awoke him that he might
hear the great news. His eyes looked so large
and he stared at his sister with so much admiration,
that she soon saw what he thought of
the magnitude of her achievement. 'I hope
you have sent for old Mr. Blackmore ? ' said he.

Zeph was alarmed. ' Jack ! Jack ! ' said
she, ' for Heaven's sake, don't say that ! Don't
say " old Mr. Blackmore," for fear the real old
one appears ! Get up and come down, I have had

110 sleep and am ao hungry. What shall we do
till that man arrives ? '

She went into the breakfast room, and was
startled by finding Mrs. Scatcherd there. ' You
did not expect to see me, dear Mrs. Daylesford,'
said she. 'I happened to hear of your being
here, and as I was away when you were here
last time I came at once. That dear angel of
a husband of yours has got the Crown to give
us a living. I believe he asked for one for us
twelve months ago. We are going to leave
this place at once. We are done with all the
boys we have been training up in the way they
ought to go so long ; they may go where they
like now, and turn out just as they choose.
How lovely you look, my dear ! How do you
think I am bearing all the wear and tear I have
been enduring lately ? '

You are bearing it splendidly ! You look
charming,' replied Zeph, vrho knew what was
expected of her.

Ah ! You always were a dear good girl,
and your husband always was a dear kind man,

and the only thing which makes me not like to
accept this living the Crown has just given us,
is leaving you and him and having to pay that
eighty pounds they always do get out of you
when they give you a Crown living. And that
reminds me  one of the things which brought
me here so early this morning is that I want to
know if Dr, Scatcherd and I, and the dear
children, of course, can come and stay here
for a week or so, while our furniture is being
moved to our new home ? You see it is quite
impossible for us to be in the rectory here when
once our furniture is taken away, and it is impossible
for us to be in the rectory the Crown
has given us, until the furniture has been unpacked
and put in its place there ; so I thought
as your husband had got us the living, you,
dear, might like to do something kind for us,
too, and would take us in while you are here.
It would be very pleasant for us to be with
you, and much more comfortable than any
other arrangement.'

It is Mr. Blackmore who settles things of

this kind, not I,' replied Zeph ; ' I have to ask
him when I want to come myself. He will be
here this morning  I have sent for him. Oh,
what is thisbe Mrs. Scatcherd, do excuse me.'

A servant had given her a note, and to he*-
surprise it was from Mr. Blackmore himself.
Dear Madam,' he wrote, 'I have found a
paper which seems to my mind to support your
theory so strongly that I feel it my duty, in the
interest of my clients, to be on the spot. I left
London last night, by the late train, and have
slept at the village inn here, but I earnestly
request you to make no objection to my coming
to the house. If anything should be discovered,
extreme pains should be taken to have witnesses
present who can testify to the circumstances
under which the documents are found. Doubts
may be cast on their validity unless this is
attended to. You will see this as I do, and
pardon my apparent disregard of your wishes.
The paper I have found materially alters the
aspect of affairs.'

Go to Mr. Blackmore and request him to

come here without a moment's delay,' said Mrs.
Daylesford, eagerly ; ' say that I have already
despatched a messenger to town on the same
errand.'

Ah, Mr. Blackmore will be here then,
directly,' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd. ' That is
nice ! I shall have an excellent opportunity
for arranging with him about our little visit, as
you say he is to be asked ; ' and so saying, she
slowly settled down into the easiest chair in the
room.

1 am afraid that I must ask you to leave
me alone with Mr. Blackmore,' said Zeph ; ' I
have to talk with him on important business ! '

Then will you arrange with him about our
coming here ? ' said Mrs. Scatcherd.

'Yes, I will arrange with him,' replied
Zeph, who was ready to promise anything if
she would but go away. And thus Mrs.
Scatcherd departed, then, as ever, compassing
her own ends.

Before Zeph had half finished her breakfast,
Mr. Blackmore came. He entered the room

briskly. ' I have found a plan I ' he said
joyously ; but Zeph interrupted him.

I have lost one ! ' said she. ' My pocket was
picked ; but that is of no consequence, not the
least. Come upstairs, I have something to show
you.'

The lawyer had no idea her success had been
so decided, and said, in a commonplace way,
while going upstairs, ' Was there much in it ? '

In what . ' asked Zeph.

In your purse.'

Twenty pounds, perhaps ; why do you ask?
How can you think of such things as that ? '

She took him to the secret door  secret no
longer  she opened it, and was about to enter ;
but he drew her back and made the butler and
the housekeeper come, and then in a strong
body they went, one by one, along that dark
and narrow passage, and down those steps
which were obscure even when lighted by three
candles. Mr Blackmore was now as excited
as Zeph herself Jack, who had followed them,
was the most collected of the party. ' There,'

exclaimed Zeph, ' is the oak box ! I saw it
when I came in early this morning, but I remembered
your instructions, and did not even
touch it.'

Touch it now, madam,' said he ; ' this is
your discovery, and you, in our presence, shall
examine the contents.'

Trembling with anxiety, she tried to raise
the lid, but the box was locked. Mr. Blackmore,
however, had brought with him some
keys he had found in his father's desk, and the
first which Zeph tried  a little odd-looking key
with an old-fashioned handle  turned in the
lock at once. The box contained some papers?
and they carried it into the corridor to examine
them by daylight.

'Will you do it, Mr. Blackmore?' said
Zeph, ' my poor hands tremble so, I can do nothing.'


So the lawyer took her place, and she and
the two servants silently watched him lift out
the papers which might mean so much.

'Victory ! ' he cried, ' Victory ! ' waving a

dingy paper in triumph. ' How I wish my dear
clients had been here! Mr. Marmaduke and
Mr. Godfrey Daylesford ought to have been
here ! This is the certificate of their father's
marriage with Miss Janet Murray. I now see
what has made the discovery so difficult. We
have all believed that they were married in
Austria, or somewhere on the continent  we
were always told so, in fact  but it seems that
they came home to their own country for the
ceremony. They were married at Teeth on
May 14, 18  , just two years before Mr. Mar-mature's
birth. I do not wonder that the
register was never found. Teeth is in Yorkshire
 it is an out-of-the-way place now, but
at the time of their marriage it must have been
well-nigh inaccessible. I remember hearing
that the people in the villages near went on
praying for George III. until William IV. was
on the throne  so they were not likely to know
how much that register was wanted  but here
is a copy of it, and any one who doubts its
authenticity can go and consult the register for

himself. Now that I know where to find it 
now that we know where the marriage took
place  I shall go at once. I will go this very
evening, but this is sufficient to establish all
that my clients have been wanting to establish
so long  Mr. Marmaduke Daylesford is, as his
brother always said he was, Earl of Berkhamp-
stead, and he will find it perfectly easy to prove
his claim. It is you, madam,' said the lawyer,
turning to Zeph, ' it is you who, under Providence,
have been the means of reinstating
him in his rights ! He might hr.ve lived and
died without ever having his claim recognised
if it had not been for your great sagacity,
your most remarkable perseverance and patience
under discouragement (to my shame
I own that I discouraged you myself), and
your untiring devotion to your husband's interests.'


Oh, Mr. Blackmore, I don't deserve
that,' said Zeph, '1 have done a little  a
very little ; but some one else, to whom I shall
be for ever grateful, has done much more.

Had it not been for her, I could have done
nothing.'

I don't know, madam,' exclaimed Mrs.
Sanderson, ' I am very sure no human being
could have worked harder ! I shouldn't have
liked to slave so myself ! '

1 don't know, either,' said Mr. Blackmore,
but I feel as if our success was entirely due to
you, and I am certain that no event could
possibly have occurred which could give your
husband more satisfaction  more happiness, I
ought to say  than this.'

Was Zeph entirely changed? Something
had just been said which, in former days, would
have offended and pained her deeply. Mr.
Blackmore had affirmed that no event could
possibly have occurred which would afford her
husband more happiness than this. It was evident,
therefore, that in the lawyer's estimation
reconciliation with his wife occupied quite a
secondary place in Godfrey's mind. Zeph
never so much as observed this, for her
whole attention was given to a circumstance

which filled her with delight  Mr. Blackmore
had begun to use the word ' husband '

"&"

again !

The first thing Zeph did was to go into her
own room and write a long and deeply grateful
letter to Hester Langdale.

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

GOOD NEWS FOR YOU, DEAR ZEPH.

Some ships reach happy ports that are not steered.

Cymheline.

And to think said Mr. Blackmore, when he
was taking leave of Mrs. Daylesford an hour
later, for he was not able to stay any longer 
to think that I do not know how to send this
joyful intelligence to your husband ! '

You don't ! ' exclaimed Zeph, and her
spirits sank to zero in a moment. She had
cherished a secret hope that Godfrey's journeyings
were not so much a matter of ignorance to
the lawyer as he would have her suppose.
Then you really do not know ! '

There was so much misery in her voice
that Mr. Blackmore hesitated ; he did not like
to answer her. Observing that he hesitated,

she raised her eyes to his to see if a vestige of
hope remained for her. ' You really do not
know,' she repeated. ' It is true, then, no one
knows where to find him ! '

We don't know now, but we soon shall,'
he replied cheerfully. ' Don't be anxious
about that.'

Telegraph to the Governor,' said she, ' he
will know if any one does.'

That is done ! I did it as soon as we
came downstairs. Of course, I did that immediately.'


What did you say ? '

" The papers are found. Come at once." '

And you really do not know where Mr.
Daylesford is ? ' for still she could not believe
it.

The lawyer was unfeignedly sorry for her.
We shall soon know,' he replied ; ' perhaps
the Governor knows already ; Mr. Daylesford
was in Siberia when last I heard from him, but
even if he is not there now. Lord Berkhamp-
stead will contrive to recall him somehow.

VOL. III. U

Don't think of the difficulty of finding him,
think what a joyful home-coming he will
have ! '

I might have gone up to town with you
if I had thought of it,' said Mrs. Daylesford.
'As it is, I think I shall stay here till tomorrow.'


Pardon me, you must let me look after
you a little, and I think you ought to stay
here for some time. You have been in London
all the summer and-ought to have a change.
Lord Berkhampstead will probably be the first
to arrive. Stay till he comes, and be hereto
receive him.'

No,' said Zeph, firmly ' I cannot do that ;
Godfrey would not like it.'

'Not like it! Who ought to be here at
this juncture, but you? I am quite certain
that Lord Berkhampstead would be very much
hurt if he knew that you had any hesitation.
You naturally wish to be on the spot when
your husband's brother, and I hope your
husband himself, arrive. London is not

healthy now. This is your proper place. Let
your unmarried sister come to bear you company.'


Ah, Mr. Blackmore, you do not know how
things are ! ' said poor Zeph, very piteously.

I know nothing but that everything is
going to be all right again, and as happy as it
can possibly be,' said the lawyer, almost nervously.
' I entreat you to stay a while.'

Mrs. Daylesford yielded. She, too, had a
strong hope that all was going to be well once
more. She would have had to yield in any
case, for the excitement of the past weeks told
on her, and next day she was ill. The snatched
came and went, but Zeph passed the
greater part of their visit in her room. Lord
Berkhampstead came too, but alone. He did
not know where Godfrey was. He was very
kind to Zeph, and very grateful, but Lord
Berkhampstead was not Godfrey.

Will your brother ever forgive me ? '
asked Zeph.

Of course he will  he has forgiven you ;

2

he blames himself, and loves you most truly.
Don't allow yourself to think the contrary ; do
your best to get well and strong, so that there
may be no cloud on his happiness when he
returns. Stay here till he does, I ask it as a
favour.'

You are kinder than I deserve,' said she.
'I am bitterly ashamed when I think of the
past.'

She did stay; she took to heart what he
had said, and did her best to recover her
health, but that was rather difficult, for most
of her thoughts were auy thing but cheerful.

She seemed to have lived a long, longtime,
and yet she could scarcely recall one
event of her life of which she could think with
any satisfaction. She hated and despised herself.
She had been so vain of her beauty that
she had thought herself superior to all around
her ; whereas, in reality, she had been false,
selfish, ignorant, useless, and contemptible.
She had been false to the man she really loved,
and refused to marry him because he had not

sufficient wealth to give her a full measure of
the worldly delights on which she had set her
affections. She had been still more false to the
man whom she had married. She had married
him though she loved another man. She had
repaid his love with a false show of love. She
had revelled in luxury until her heart was sofar
hardened that she had actually tried to
make her husband do a thoroughly base action.
She had sunk so low as to be able to propose
that he should dishonour his mother's name,
and commit an act of treason against his
brother. She had asked him to snatch at a
rank that the law had awarded to him even
though she knew that he could only do it at
the cost of all he held dear. She had reaped
her reward in his contempt. That had been
the turning point in her married life ; nothing
had gone well with her since that day, though
he had seemed to forgive her. How he must
have despised her ! Her cheeks tingled at the
mere thought. And yet how kind he had been !
How ready to receive her apologies, how

patient with her ignorance and dulness, how
tolerant of her insane passion for gaiety ! He
had loved her in spite of everything! Then
she had sinned again, and sinned even when
in her heart she loved him. She had dared to
bring a counter-accusation against him ! She
had upbraided him with Hester Langdale.
Never should she forget that night when,
goaded by her words and deeds, and full of
astonishment and contempt for her when he
found that she had known about Hester even
from the beginning, he had told her the truth.
He had told her then that she who had come
coldly and calmly to live with him as his
wedded wife while she loved another man, was
a wickeder woman by far than Hester who had
always loved him truly. ' His words were
hard,' she said to herself, 'they were cruel,
they nearly killed me, .but they were true !
She was a better woman than I, and Heaven
has judged between us, and let her be the
means of performing this service for Godfrey.
I should dearly have liked to perform it myself,

bnt I was unworthy. I see it. I own it. I
am filled with shame ! ' Thus did Zeph bewail
her outcast state. And yet she was not always
unhappy. There were times when her heart
was filled with the hope that Godfrey, who
had always been so patient with her, would let
her begin her life afresh.

Weeks passed, and she and Agnes were
still at Berkhampstead. The leaves which had
waved above their heads when they came were
now lying withered beneath their feet, and yet
nothing was heard of Godfrey. Towards the
end of October, Agnes was summoned home.
Jack was the one who did it ; he wrote and
told her that she ought to come, for he was sure
his mother was ill. She looked wretchedly ill,
he said, and had fainted twice.

We will leave in an hour's time,' said Zeph
to her sister. ' You and I will both go
home.'

Can they be ready for you in Ambassadors'
Gate at such a short notice . ' asked Agnes.

'I don't want them to be ready  I said

home,' replied Zeph. ' My old home  I meant
I am going to Lome Gardens too ; I fancy-poor
mother is only ill because she wants a
thorough change. We will see how she is today
; and if I am right, we will telegraph to
Polly to expect her and you tomorrow. You
know she has for a long time been wanting you
to go, and she will be only too glad to have
mother too.'

But father ? ' exclaimed Agnes. ' You are
quite forgetting him.*

No, I am not. I mean to stay with him
while you are away. I can do all that is
wanted.'

You ? Impossible ! He would not consent,
and you would hate it. You would not be
able to endure being at home now  you have
forgotten what it is.'

Oh no, I have not  I want to go  father
will let me write for him  he is used to having
me  Agnes, don't make any opposition ; going
away now may even save mother's life.'

They went  they found that Mrs. Treherne

really was suffering from nothing but close
confinement to one room. All was speedily
arranged with Polly, and next day Mrs. Tree
and Agnes were on their way to Axminster,
Mrs. Treherne looking better already, and
delighting in the idea of going to see her cousin
Everilda and the dearly loved places which she
had not seen since she was a girl.

And Zeph was once more in her garret
under the roof, and her father's companion at
the desk. He had submitted to the necessity
of giving his wife a holiday, and now that she
was gone he was speedily reconciled to the
change of helpmate. What thoughts coursed
through Zeph's mind that first morning she sat
by his side ! ' You must make me work, dear,'
she had said, but in reality he had nothing for
her to do. So she arranged her work herself,
and patiently and faithfully performed every
service which her mother was in the habit of
doing  nothing was too trivial, nothing too
menial for her. ' You may sweep a room to
the glory of God,' says George Herbert  Zeph

did SO. Noiselessly and punctually she each
day did what was expected of her, and in doing
it her soul found peace. Work drove out
thought  the delight of being of use filled her
mind. And yet often after sitting for hours
with her father she found that she had done
nothing more for him than pick up a pen or
find a mislaid sheet of paper, but he always
said ' Thank you, my dearest child,' and gave
her a cheering smile. There are other ways of
helping those we love than performing tasks
which are visible to the naked eye.

keep mother as long as you can,' she
wrote to her sisters ; ' father does not seem to
miss her.' Thus far had she written when she
thought of all that this sentence would mean
to her poor mother, who believed that her
husband could not exist without her. Zeph
took another sheet of paper, and wrote, ' Keep
mother as long as you can, for we are going on
very well here, and it is a real boon to me to
have anything to do which makes me feel that
I can contribute to any one's happiness. My

dear sisters, life is very quiet here, but very
happy.'

At last, but not until the Christmas holidays
began, Mrs. Treherne and Agnes came home.
Polly and her husband were coming to pay a
visit to the Simonides, so they waited for them
and all travelled to London together. Mrs.
Treherne was radiant with health and happiness,
and so pretty that it was a pleasure to look at
her. The very day after her return she fell
into her accustomed place  Zeph was superseded.


I suppose I must go back to Ambassadors'
Gate,' said she to Agnes, ' but I don't seem to
like the idea.'

Oh, wait a little longer,' pleaded Agnes ;
it is like old times having you, and now that
Polly is back again, let us all be together.'

Polly came in that very evening  John had
gone to some public dinner, and she was to stay
with her sisters until he came to fetch her on
his way home. They were very happy together
hours passed almost like minutes  Zeph had

not been so happy for more than a year. She
was lying on the sofa with her face turned to
her sisters  they where both by the lire. Suddenly
Agnes said, ' Is it not strange how when
one is quite gay and happy some thought that
has nothing whatever to do with anything that
is being said or done will keep coming into
one's mind ? There is something that will force
itself into mine, now, whether I will or not,
and it has gone on doing it all the evening.'

What is it ? ' asked Zeph ; but Agnes was
silent.

'Do say,' said Zeph, and yet she felt as if
she knew without being told. ' Come, you must
tell us now you have begun,' she added, resorting
to the old formula of their childhood.

It was stupid of me to begin,' said Agnes.
It is this. I cannot help thinking of that night
when you were here last year  don't you remember,
dear, when Godfrey came to fetch
you, quite late ? '

Zeph felt a strange thrill. Suppose  but
she resolutely crushed hope. And yet it was

strange, for all through the evening, though she
had laughed and talked of so many other
things, that recollection had been curiously
present with her, and was continually starting
forward more and more vividly from the recesses
of her mind. * One does think of stupid
things,' she said, ' I have been thinking of that
myself  I will tell you what has brought it to
our minds. I was lying on the sofa that night
just as I am doing now, only my face was
turned to the wall, and you, Agnes, were by the
fire in the very chair and very place you are
now  that's all. What was it we were talking
about just now? Oh, Polly was telling us

about Miss Everilda and her What is that ? '

she exclaimed, for a cab had stopped at the
door.

It is John,' said Polly, rising, ' and I must
go at once, for he told me I was not to keep
him waiting a moment, as his father and mother
are sure to sit up for him.'

But it cannot be John,' said Agnes, ' it is
only ten o'clock.'

'The dinner has been dull, I suppose, or
your clock is wrong. I must go. Good bye,
dears. My things are all in the dining-room 
no one need go down with me.*

She went, but though Zeph and Agnes were
not paying enough attention to be quite certain
on that point, they did not seem to hear
the house-door shut after her, or the cab
drive away. They went on talking, and forgot
about it.

Five minutes afterwards Polly came back,
breathless, and with a strangely eager expression
in her eyes. ' It was not John,' she said ;
it was some one who has brought good news
  good news for you, dear Zeph.'

I know it,' said Zeph, faintly, ' I have felt
it coming all the evening ! Where is he ? I
know it is Godfrey.'

Downstairs,' said Polly, simply. ' He has
come, as he did before, to take you home.'

Zeph's head reeled, but she controlled herself
by a great effort and asked, ' Is he with
father?'

'No. He is in the dining-room waiting for
you. He wanted to come upstairs with me,
but I thought it better to prepare you. Come,
Zeph, won't you go down ? '

Zeph stood looking distressed and uncertain
now that the moment for which she had
prayed so long was come, her courage failed
her.

Would you rather see him here, dear ? '
said Agnes.

No,' said Zeph, humbly ; ' it is my place to
go to him, and I will go.'

She had to hold by the rail of the stairs as
she went, but when she entered the room her
step was firm  it was firm at the outset, but
she soon began to falter. There was no need
for her to put her courage to the proof; the
moment she entered the room, he was by her
side and his arms were around her. ' My Zeph
my wife, my own dear love ! ' said he, and
in a moment all the barriers which had divided
them were broken down.

I do not deserve this happiness,' said she.

He was too happy for words.

He led her to a sofa and sat down by her.
I have a great favour to ask of you,' said
she after a while, ' dear Godfrey, will you try
to forget the entire past  will you let thisbe
the beginning of our love, and our life
together ? '

I will do anything you like, my darling ;
but you want to rob me of some very happy
recollections  and I was to blame myself  but
we won't think of anything of that kind now ;
if you love me, I am the happiest man in the
world.'

I do love you, Godfrey. I love you withall
my heart and strength. I loved you long
before you went away, dear, but things made
it difficult for me to tell you so. Where have
you been all this terrible time ? '

I landed at Hull this morning.'

At Hull ! But where have you been . '

I have been in Asia and most of the
northern countries of Europe. I only heard
five days ago that you would like me to come

home. I have not been lone: in comiuo-
have IP'

'No. But what a long time you have
been away ; and no one could find you  no
one knew where you were ! Marmaduke
seemed to think that you were going to India
and Japan  it all seemed so vague  so miserably
uncertain.'

I did not think you cared to know. I
told him I was going to the East. I thought I
was. I did not care where I went, so long as
it was somewhere where no one could find me.
I felt as if my only chance of ever being happy
again was getting beyond the reach of the post
and hearing of things that made me wretched.'

But your brother  you wanted to hear
from him ? '

No, I didn't. You may judge by that of
the state I was in. I wanted to be quite alone
and out of reach of every one. I gave u[)
writing to Marmaduke when I was in Siberia
and never wrote again till lately  his answer
to that letter brought me home.'

VOL. III. X

Thank Heaven for that ! ' said Zeph,
fervently. ' You know that the papers are
found ? Marmaduke told you that, of course ? '

Yes, he told me that. He told me that it
was you who had found them  he was delighted,
and so was I, but I am afraid I did not care
quite so much as I ought to have done ; I was
so happy when I read that you wanted me to
come home, that I could think of nothing else ! '

At length Zeph's cup of happiness was full
to overflowing. She was sitting with her head
resting on his shoulder  his arm was around
her  she had never been so happy in her life.
The door-bell rang loudly. Daylesford started
and said, ' What is that ? Surely my cabman
cannot be taking upon himself to say that it is
time we went home ? '

How delicious the word ' home ' sounded
never had she realised what it meant before.
It is John,' she said, ' John Simonds. You
know that he and Polly are married  no, I
suppose you don't, though. It is the only
happiness we have had since you went.'

Mr. Treherne never knew that Zeph and
her husband had been otherwise than happy
together. He had not known of the quarrel,
so there was no need to tell him of the reconciliation,
but he was delighted to see his son-in-law
again, and confessed to his wife that very
night that ' excellent as John Simonds was, he
could not help preferring Godfrey Daylesford.'

My dear,' replied Mrs. Treherne  and the
very fact that she ventured to do so showed
how strong and well her long visit to the
north had made her  ' I do believe you like
him best because he has a long pedigree ! '

If I did, I could defend the position  no,
it is not that, it is something in himself.'

